20 September 2012 
EMA/CHMP/60979/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
CHMP assessment report 
Constella 
International non-proprietary name: linaclotide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002490 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive Summary  
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a chronic functional gastrointestinal disorder characterised by 
intestinal pain or discomfort together with alteration of bowel habit, abdominal distension, bloating, 
constipation or diarrhoea1. Symptoms usually wax and wane for many years, often resulting in 
reduced quality of life and work productivity. The pathophysiology of IBS is incompletely unde
rstood. 
Despite affecting 5 to 20% of the Western population, no medicines are authorised in the European 
Union (EU) specifically for the treatment of IBS. Patients and prescribers are limited to general 
symptomatic treatments such as laxatives, antidiarrhoeals and antispasmodics, which are 
recommended in current guidelines but on the basis of weak evidence. Alternatively, they may use 
unapproved treatments such as antidepressants and non-absorbable antibiotics when lifestyle 
modifications such as reducing stress, altering diet or psychological interventions prove ineffective. 
In September 2012, the European Medicines Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human 
Use (CHMP) recommended the authorisation of Constella (linaclotide) to offer a new option for adults 
with moderate to severe IBS with constipation (IBS-C), a common subtype of the disease. The 
recommended dose is one capsule (290 micrograms) once daily, to be taken at least 30 minutes before 
a meal. Linaclotide, a synthetic 14-amino-acid peptide, is a new oral compound that works by 
increasing intestinal fluid secretion and accelerated transit. It stimulates guanylate-cyclase-subtype-C 
(GC-C) receptors on the luminal surface of the intestinal epithelium, leading to increased intra- and 
extracellular levels of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). The increase in intracellular cGMP in 
turn activates the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), leading to secretion of 
chloride and bicarbonate into the intestinal lumen. The increase in extracellular (basolateral) cGMP 
increases the threshold for colonic nociception and is believed to thereby reduce sensation of pain. 
In the two main clinical studies provided to support its authorisation2, linaclotide showed superiority 
over placebo, with statistically significant improvements in abdominal pain and discomfort as well as 
considerable or complete relief from symptoms after 12 weeks. Both studies employed randomised, 
double-blind, parallel-group designs in a total of approximately 1600 patients who met criteria that 
correspond to a moderate to severe IBS population. Around 38% of the patients treated with 
linaclotide showed a ‘relief response’, defined as considerable or complete relief of symptoms for six 
out of 12 treatment weeks as measured on a seven-point Likert scale. This compared with around 18% 
of the patients treated with placebo. In addition, around 54% of the patients treated with linaclotide 
showed an at least 30% improvement in their abdominal pain or discomfort score for six out of 12 
treatment weeks, compared with around 40% of those receiving placebo. 
The Committee judged these results to be clinically relevant, because the primary endpoints met a 
14% to 20% margin of superiority over placebo, and because the results were consistent across the 
main trials. Nonetheless, it noted that around half of the patients in the main studies did not 
sufficiently respond to linaclotide, leading to the recommendation that prescribers should assess 
patients regularly and reconsider treatment if there is no improvement in symptoms after four weeks. 
Although linaclotide is intended for long-term continuous use, only study MCP-103-302 evaluated the 
effects of the medicine for six months; this is the duration of treatment required by the Agency’s 
guidelines for chronic IBS treatments. For both endpoints, the effect over placebo in this study after 
26 weeks was statistically significant: 37% and 54% of the patients treated with linaclotide showed 
response to IBS degree of relief and to abdominal pain or discomfort, respectively, compared with 17% 
and 36% of those receiving placebo. These results were supported by additional justification from the 
1 Currently the Rome III criteria are widely accepted as the gold standard for the diagnosis and classification of IBS. 
2 LIN-MD-31 and MCP-103-302. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 2/133
 
 
 
 
                                              
 
applicant concerning the medicine’s mode of action, the patient population studied and the consistency 
of its effects across sub-populations and a variety of endpoints. 
No rebound effect was seen in study LIN-MD-31, which included a randomised withdrawal period of 
four weeks after three months of treatment. Although there are no data after longer treatment periods, 
the Agency accepted that these three-month withdrawal data could be extrapolated to later time points 
because the medicine showed sustained efficacy and in the absence of a biologically plausible reason 
for why withdrawal effects would differ after longer treatment duration. 
Because diarrhoea was the most common adverse event seen, the Agency warns that patients with 
severe or prolonged diarrhoea should be monitored closely and that linaclotide should be used with 
caution in patients prone to a water or electrolyte-balance disturbances. Diarrhoea was reported in 160 
(20%) of the linaclotide-treated patients but only 24 (3%) of those receiving placebo, with this being 
moderate or severe in 91 and 6 patients, respectively. In linaclotide patients, diarrhoea lasted more 
than 28 days in half of those affected, but less than a week in a third. Rarely, potentially more serious 
consequences of diarrhoea were seen, such as serum bicarbonate and potassium level changes, 
dehydration, dizziness, and syncope. 
Only 5% of the study participants were above 65 years of age. The Committee noted that diarrhoea 
appeared to be more common in the elderly, leading to its recommendation that prescribers should 
afford special attention to older patients and assess the medicine’s benefits and risks carefully before 
and during treatment in this age group. To further elucidate the safety profile of the medicine in this 
population, the Agency has requested a post-authorisation safety study that specifically includes 
elderly patients. Regarding children and adolescents, the absence of data led the Agency to restrict its 
recommended use of linaclotide to adults, especially since GC-C receptor is overexpressed in young 
children. Specific studies will need to be conducted before a conclusion on safe and effective use in the 
paediatric population can be made. 
Linaclotide is expected to offer a useful treatment option for patients with moderate or severe IBS with 
constipation, once organic diseases have been ruled out and a diagnosis of IBS-C has been 
established. The Committee’s conclusion that the medicine’s benefits outweigh its risks is based on the 
medicine’s robust superiority over placebo, clear clinical relevance, and acceptable safety profile. The 
Committee awaits the final results of the long-term safety study, and the data from the post-
authorisation safety study, concentrating in particular on complications of diarrhoea in patients with 
associated risk factors as well as the medicine’s risks in older patients, and will make further 
recommendations on its use in line with these and any other information that becomes available after 
the medicine is in use. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 3/133
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents   
Executive Summary ..................................................................................... 2 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 8 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 8 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 9 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 9 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 9 
2.2. Quality aspects ................................................................................................ 11 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects .......................................................................................... 16 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 24 
2.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 35 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................110 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance...........................................................................................123 
2.8. User consultation ............................................................................................129 
3. 
4. 
Benefit-Risk Balance
......................................................................... 129 
Recommendations
............................................................................. 132 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 4/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
AAA 
ACE 
ADO  
ADR  
AE  
ALT  
ANCOVA  
ANOVA  
AST 
ATC  
AUC  
AUC(INF)  
BA  
BCS  
BE  
BID  
BM  
BMI 
BRB 
BSFS  
CC  
cGMP  
CHMP  
CI  
CID  
ClC-2  
C max  
CMH  
CNS  
CrCl  
CRF  
CSBM  
CSR  
CT  
CV  
CYP  
DB  
DBP  
DMT  
DNA 
DSC 
DVS 
ECG  
ELISA 
EMA  
EQ-5D  
E-R  
EU  
FDA  
FTIR 
g  
GC-C  
GI  
GIS  
GLP  
HA  
HMG-CoA  
HPLC  
Amino acid analysis 
angiotensin-converting enzyme 
Adverse Event Dropout 
adverse drug reaction 
adverse event 
alanine aminotransferase 
Analysis of covariance 
Analysis of variance 
aspartate aminotransferase 
Anatomical Therapeutic Classification 
area under the concentration-time curve 
area under the concentration-time curve to infinity 
Bioavailability 
Biopharmaceutics Classification System 
Bioequivalence 
twice daily 
Bowel Movement 
body-mass index 
bilirubin 
Bristol Stool Form Scale 
Chronic Constipation 
Cyclic Guanosine Monophosphate 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
confidence interval 
Clinically Important Difference 
Chloride Channel type 2 
maximum plasma concentration 
Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel 
central nervous system 
creatinine clearance 
Case Report Form 
Complete Spontaneous Bowel Movement 
clinical study report 
computed tomography 
Coefficient of Variation 
cytochrome P450 
Double Blind 
Diastolic Blood Pressure 
Deviation from the theoretical mean 
deoxyribonucleic acid 
differential scanning calorimetry 
dynamic vapour sorption 
Electrocardiogram 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
European Medicines Agency 
EuroQoL – 5 Dimensions 
exposure-response 
European Union 
Food and Drug Administration 
Fourier transform infrared 
Gram 
Guanylate Cyclase receptor, subtype C 
Gastrointestinal 
Global Improvement Scale 
Good Laboratory Practice 
health authority 
3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl CoA 
High-Performance Liquid Chromatography 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 5/133
 
 
 
 
Irritable Bowel Syndrome 
Irritable Bowel Syndrome with Constipation 
Irritable Bowel Syndrome with Diarrhoea 
Irritable Bowel Syndrome Mixed 
Irritable Bowel Syndrome Unsubtyped 
independent central adjudication committee 
International Conference on Harmonisation 
Initiative on Methods, Measurement and Pain Assessment in Clinical Trials 
Immediate Release 
Internal Standard 
Integrated Summary of Safety (US) 
Intent-To-Treat 
intravenous(ly) 
Interactive Voice Response System 
Dipotassium ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid 
Liquid Chromatography 
liver function test 
lower limit of quantitation 
last observation carried forward 
list of questions 
Least Squares 
Least Square Mean Difference 
Long Term Safety 
Multiple Comparisons Procedure 
Acetate Ironwood Pharmaceuticals development designation for linaclotide 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
milligram 
milliliter 
millimolar 
IBS  
IBS-C  
IBS-D  
IBS-M  
IBS-U  
ICAC  
ICH  
IMMPACT  
IR  
IS  
ISS  
ITT  
IV  
IVRS  
K2EDTA  
LC  
LFT  
LLOQ  
LOCF  
LoQ 
LS  
LSMD  
LTS  
MCP  
MD-1100  
MedDRA  
mg 
ml  
mM  
MM-420026   A stable isotope-labeled internal standard of linaclotide (15N13C9-linaclotide) 
MS/MS  
NDA  
NF  
ng  
NLT  
NMR 
NOAEL  
NRS  
OC  
OLE 
OR  
OTC  
Pbo  
PCS  
PD  
PET 
PGIC  
PK  
PO  
Pop-PK 
PP  
PPI  
Q  
Tandem Mass Spectrometry 
New Drug Application 
National Formulary 
nanogram 
Not Less Than 
Nuclear magnetic resonance 
No Observed Adverse Effect Level 
Numeric Rating Scale 
Observed Case 
open-label extension 
Odds Ratio 
Over The Counter 
Placebo 
Potentially Clinically Significant 
pharmacodynamic(s) 
primary efficacy timepoint 
Patient Global Impression of Change 
Pharmacokinetics 
oral(ly) 
population pharmacokinetics 
Per Protocol 
Proton Pump Inhibitor 
The amount of dissolved active ingredient, expressed as a percentage of the labeled 
content of the dosage unit. 
Quality Control 
once daily 
Quality of Life 
Relative Error 
Randomization Ineligible 
Risk Management Plan 
Rollover 
rest of world 
QC  
QD  
QoL  
RE  
RI  
RMP 
RO  
ROW  
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 6/133
 
 
 
 
RSD  
RW  
SA  
SAE  
SAP  
SAWP  
SBM  
SBP  
SEC 
SC  
SCE  
SD  
SE  
SOC  
SPC 
SPE  
TEAE  
ULN 
ULOQ  
US  
USP  
UV 
Vc/F  
μg  
μl  
XRPD 
Relative Standard Deviation 
Randomized Withdrawal 
Scientific Advice 
serious adverse event 
Statistical Analysis Plan 
Scientific Advice Working Party 
Spontaneous Bowel Movement 
Systolic Blood Pressure 
size exclusion chromatography 
subcutaneous(ly) 
Summary of Clinical Efficacy 
Standard Deviation 
Standard Error 
System Organ Class 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Solid-phase extraction 
Treatment Emergent Adverse Event 
upper limit of normal 
Upper Limit of Quantitation 
United States 
United States Pharmacopeia 
Ultraviolet 
apparent volume of distribution of the central compartment 
microgram 
microliter 
X-ray powder diffraction 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 7/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Almirall,  S.A.  submitted  on  27  September  2011  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  for  Constella,  through  the  centralised 
procedure  under  Article  3  (2)(a)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004.  The  eligibility  to  the  centralised 
procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP during its meeting on 13-16 December 2010. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: Constella is indicated for the symptomatic treatment 
of moderate to severe irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C) in adults. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC - complete and independent application. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature 
substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/110/2011 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/110/2011 was not yet completed as some 
measures were deferred. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
New active Substance status 
The applicant requested the active substance linaclotide contained in the above medicinal product to be 
considered as a new active substance in itself. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 17 December 2009. The Scientific Advice 
pertained to insert quality, non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
Constella was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 8/133
 
 
 
 
 
The product (Linzess) has been given a Marketing Authorisation in the USA on 30 August 2012. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation team was: 
Rapporteur: Harald Enzmann  
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 27 September 2011. 
The procedure started on 19 October 2011.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 6 January 2012 
(Annex 1). The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 5 
January 2012.  
  During the meeting on 13-16 February 2012, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 16 February 2012. 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 16 May 2012. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 29 June 2012. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 16-19 July 2012, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to 
be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 14 August 2012. 
  During the meeting on 17 to 20 September 2012, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data 
submitted and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting 
a Marketing Authorisation to Constella on 20 September 2012.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
The condition to be treated, Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) is a chronic, relapsing gastrointestinal 
problem characterised primarily by intestinal pain and/or discomfort. In addition to pain and discomfort 
an association exists with alteration of defecation and/or bowel habit. Associations with other 
symptoms are also regularly present, such as abdominal distension, bloating, constipation, and/or 
diarrhoea. IBS is generally regarded to be a functional gastrointestinal disorder with the meaning that 
– by usual investigations and up to most recently – a disease specific correlate cannot be found. 
Moreover, IBS is frequently associated with other functional gastrointestinal (e.g. functional dyspepsia; 
GERD) or non-gastrointestinal (e.g. fibromyalgia, chronic pelvic pain, interstitial cystitis) disorders, as 
well as with co-existing psychological conditions. In about 10% of the adult patients, IBS-like 
symptoms develop after bacterial or viral enteric infections (“post-infectious IBS”). 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 9/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
IBS is associated with a significantly impaired health-related quality of life and reduced work 
productivity, however, seems not to be associated with increased mortality. The impairment of quality 
of life has been evaluated to be similar as in diseases like depression and diabetes mellitus, and higher 
than, e.g. in patients with chronic renal failure. 
IBS is regarded to be a common disorder, the prevalence of which has been estimated to be in the 
order of between 5 % and 20% of the general populations in Western Societies, depending on the 
method used for data collection, and on the methods used for the diagnosis. The prevalence of the 
conditions decreases with age, and is anticipated to be highest in the 4th decade. There is a clear 
female dominance in the prevalence of the disease with usually the ratio reported to be about 2:1. IBS 
is regarded to be a chronic stable disorder with so-called “waxing and waning” of symptoms for years.  
The pathophysiology of IBS is still incompletely understood. Whereas more “traditional” markers of 
disease activity, such as altered motor dysfunction (including small intestinal motor abnormalities, 
altered colonic transit, etc), altered visceral sensitivity and sensory dysfunction, altered autonomic 
nervous system regulation (including brain-gut interaction), and stress in the form of severe life-time 
events such as physical and sexual abuse have long been implicated into the generation of the 
symptoms, more recent research have elucidated a role for factors like genetics, disturbed processing 
of bowel gas, and, most importantly, subclinical inflammation.  
The diagnosis and classification of IBS has formerly based on the so-called Kruis, or the (later) 
Manning criteria, which have later been broadly superseded by the Rome criteria, of which the third 
version (Rome III) is currently regarded the standard of diagnosis and classification. Despite the 
limitations of all symptom-based diagnostic systems, the currently applicable Rome III criteria have 
been accepted and are regarded as the current Gold Standard by the wide variety of learned societies 
in different countries, especially for the research setting (e.g. UK and US). 
The treatment of IBS is usually started with recommendations for a change in life-style (“reduce 
stress”), and dietary modifications, based on the evaluation of symptoms and history taking. Among 
patients diagnosed with IBS, a certain percentage of patients can indeed be identified to suffer from 
food allergies, and/or certain carbohydrate intolerances. Psychological therapies (cognitive behavioural 
therapy, hypnotherapy) have also shown to have some effect on the disease.  
Current guidelines on the pharmacological treatment of IBS generally recommend the administration of 
traditional pharmaceuticals such as laxatives (e.g. psyllium), antidiarrhoeals and antispasmodics based 
on the evaluation of the symptoms. However, all of these above medications are considered to provide 
the lowest level of evidence only (“weak recommendation based on low-quality or very low-quality 
evidence”). Recommendations with a higher level of evidence, especially from the American consensus 
recommendations refer to medicinal products that are not available in the EU. The only further “higher 
level” recommendations are given for antidepressants (TCAs and SSRIs) and non-absorbable 
antibiotics (e.g. rifaximin), however, these medications are also not licensed for the indication IBS. 
Further recommendations refer to the use of herbal products and probiotics with the problem of high 
heterogeneity in the trials. 
It is therefore acknowledged that there is a lack of documented reliable treatment options for the 
condition. The recommendations for the treatment of IBS are either not available in the EU, or mostly 
represent off-label use only. A clear unmet medical need exists for the condition IBS. 
About the product 
Linaclotide is a fully synthetic 14-amino-acid peptide proposed to act by stimulation of the guanylate 
cyclase subtype C (GC-C) receptor. GC-C receptors are present on the luminal surface of the intestinal 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 10/133
 
 
 
 
epithelium throughout the intestines. Linaclotide is structurally related to the endogenous guanylin 
peptide family. Linaclotide is proposed to act within the lumen of the intestine and has very low 
absolute oral bioavailability. The activation of the GC-C receptor increases cyclic guanosine 
monophosphate (cGMP), both intracellularly and extracellularly. The increase in intracellular cGMP 
causes secretion of chloride and bicarbonate into the intestinal lumen, through activation of the cystic 
fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), which results in increased intestinal fluid 
secretion and accelerated transit. The increase in extracellular (basolateral) cGMP increases the 
threshold for colonic nociception and is believed to thereby reduce sensation of pain. 
Linaclotide is intended for the symptomatic treatment of adult patients with a moderate to severe form 
of irritable bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C). The daily dose is 290 μg administered orally as 
a single dose on an empty stomach. 
Type of Application and aspects on development  
The application was made in accordance with Article 8 (3) (full application) of Directive 2001/83/EC, 
containing the results of pharmaceutical, nonclinical, and clinical tests.  
The clinical trial programme conducted by the company includes seven completed clinical studies and 
two ongoing (open-label safety) studies, which were the basis for the application for treatment of IBS-
C. In addition, data from studies in chronic constipation have been provided.  
For the development of medicinal products for the treatment of IBS, a guidance document, the “Points 
to consider on the evaluation of medicinal products for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome” 
(CPMP/EWP/785/97) applies. Generally, the guideline refers to two alternatives for drug development, 
referring to the nature of disease: Either a short-term intermittent treatment can be aimed at, for 
which it is required to elucidate several aspects of this mode of administration (dose-response, first 
use, repeated use, withdrawal and rebound effects), or the development for a long-term continuous 
use of the product, requiring the inclusion of patients with well-defined IBS into trials that should have 
a duration long enough to determine if any response will be sustained (6 months is given), and to 
evaluate a withdrawal effect. Linaclotide was developed for long-term continuous treatment. 
The company received EMA/CHMP Scientific Advice as well as national scientific advice during the 
development programme. In general, the recommendations from the authorities were followed. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as hard gelatin capsules containing 290 microgram of linaclotide as 
active substance. The full composition is described in section 6.1 of the SmPC. The product is packed in 
a high density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle with polypropylene (PP) child-resistant screw cap. The bottle 
contains one or more desiccant canisters containing silica gel. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
The international nonproprietary name (INN) of the active substance is linaclotide. The chemical name 
is: L-cysteinyl-L-cysteinyl-L-glutamyl-L-tyrosyl-L-cysteinyl-L-cysteinyl-L-asparaginyl-L-prolyl-L-alanyl-
L-cysteinyl-L-threonyl-glycyl-L-cysteinyl-L-tyrosine, cyclic (1-6), (2-10),(5-13)-tris(disulfide). 
Linaclotide is a 14-amino acid synthetic peptide with 3 disulfide bonds. All chiral amino acid are of L-
configuration. The structural formula is: 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 11/133
 
 
 
 
Linaclotide is a white to off-white hygroscopic powder and is sparingly soluble in 0.1 N HCl, slightly 
soluble in water and very slightly soluble in acetone and acetonitrile. The solubility in aqueous solutions 
over a pH range of 1.0 to 7.5 is > 100 μg/ml. Linaclotide exhibits stereoisomerism due to the presence 
of 14 chiral centers. Chiral identity is controlled routinely by specific optical rotation. Linaclotide is an 
amorphous peptide, no crystalline material has been observed in the x-ray powder diffractogram. The 
information on the active substance is provided according to the Active Substance Master File (ASMF) 
procedure. 
Manufacture 
Linaclotide is manufactured by a five step process. Linaclotide is supplied by two active substance 
manufacturers. Both suppliers provided adequate information on the active substance development, 
manufacturing process, control of starting materials, reagents and solvents, and control of critical 
steps and intermediates in the form of an active substance master file (ASMF). All relevant impurities, 
degradation products and residual solvents have been appropriately characterized.  
The two suppliers manufacture linaclotide in a slightly different way. One supplies linaclotide as 
lyophilised powder, the other as a precipitated powder. Both processes have been adequately 
described and comparability between the active substances from the two manufacturers has been 
demonstrated. The manufacturing process does not include any aseptic processing or sterilisation, 
hence no description of process validation is provided. This is in accordance with ICH M4. 
The applicant has confirmed the structure of linaclotide by MS, Edman degradation, NMR, GC-MS, 
FTIR, UV, AAA, specific optical rotation and bioidentity. The physical properties have been studied by 
DSC, DVS, XRPD, optical light microscopy, solubility profile and a particle size distribution test.  
Specification 
The applicant’s active substance specification include tests as: appearance and solubility (visual), 
identity (AAA, HPLC, optical rotation), assay (HPLC), related substances (HPLC), multimers (SEC), 
acetic acid (HPLC), water (Ph.Eur.), trifluoroacetic acid (HPLC), residual organic solvents (GC) and 
mass balance. 
The specifications and tests comply with the ICH guidelines and general requirements of Ph.Eur. and 
are adequate to control the quality of the active substance. The impurity limits are acceptable and 
there is no concern from the point of view of safety. Batch analysis data have been provided by both 
active substance suppliers and confirm consistency and uniformity of the active substance 
manufacture. 
Stability 
The primary stability studies have been performed on six commercial scale batches (three from each 
supplier) packed in containers that are representative to the containers proposed for marketing. Up to 
24 months stability data have been presented for the primary stability studies performed under long 
term (-20±5°C) conditions, and up to 18 months under accelerated (5±3°C) conditions. The 
specifications tested were appearance, assay, related substances, total disulfide-bonded multimer 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 12/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
content and water content. The stability results demonstrated that the stability of the active substance 
produced by the two suppliers is comparable and that the active substance is of adequate stability. 
Forced degradation studies were performed to identify the likely degradation products and 
demonstrated that the analytical methods are stability indicating. Photostability studies, following ICH 
guidelines Q1B, were performed on two batches (one from each supplier) to demonstrate that the 
proposed primary containers adequately protect the active substance from light exposure. In 
conclusion, the stability data provided support the proposed retest period at the proposed packaging 
and storage conditions.  
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The applicant’s objective was to develop an immediate release formulation containing 290 microgram 
linaclotide that has good long term stability at room temperature and uniform content. In view of the 
low doses of linaclotide, the applicant selected gelatin capsules filled with linaclotide-coated 
microcrystalline cellulose beads as the appropriate pharmaceutical form. Linaclotide was classified as a 
class III active substance per BCS (biopharmaceutical classification system). By selecting a process 
where linaclotide is dissolved and sprayed onto microcrystalline cellulose beads, the particle size 
distribution is not considered a critical quality attribute for the dissolution behaviour.  
As a peptide, linaclotide is known to be chemically reactive towards aldehydes and ketones. Hence 
attention has been paid to the levels of formaldehyde present in excipients, packaging components and 
the manufacturing environment. The suitability of the excipients was determined with excipient 
compatibility studies. The list of excipients include: microcrystalline cellulose (diluent), hypromellose 
(binding agent), hydrochloric acid (acidifying agent), calcium chloride dihydrate and leucine (stabilising 
agents). The gelatin capsule consists of gelatin (shell matrix), titanium dioxide (opacifer), red iron 
oxide and yellow iron oxide (colourants). The excipients selected for Constella are commonly used in 
this type of formulation and comply with the Ph.Eur., except for some excipients in the capsule cap and 
printing ink for which adequate specifications (USP or NF) have been set. The full list of excipients can 
be found in section 6.1 of the SmPC. 
The selection of the excipients has been extensively discussed in the dossier. Microcrystalline cellulose 
beads were selected as substrate in view of stability of the final finished product. The bead particle size 
was selected carefully to ensure efficiency and uniformity of coating, as well as stability. Hydrochloric 
acid was chosen as a spray coating solvent media due to its capability to dissolve linaclotide at high 
concentrations with acceptable stability characteristics thus enabling a time efficient spray coating 
process. Hypromellose was selected to support the adhesion of linaclotide to the microcrystalline bead 
surface. Additives were evaluated for their stabilising effect on the linaclotide degradation. Calcium 
chloride dihydrate and leucine were identified as effective stabilisers. A combination of these stabilisers 
in the formulation was shown to improve the stability of the product by controlling the major 
degradation pathways for linaclotide. A design of experiment (DOE) was conducted to determine the 
optimum levels of calcium chloride dihydrate and leucine as stabilisers and of hypromellose as binder.  
Comparative dissolution data between the phase 3 and commercial batches have been provided to 
demonstrate that no significant differences exist in their dissolution behaviour. Because the 
composition of the drug layered beads used in the phase 3 formulation is identical to the proposed 
commercial formulation, no bioequivalence studies were considered necessary between the phase 3 
and commercial formulation and comparative dissolution data were sufficient. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 13/133
 
 
 
 
The primary packaging proposed is a high density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle with polypropylene (PP) 
child-resistant screw cap, containing one or more (depending on the pack-size) desiccant canisters 
with silica gel. The material complies with PhEur. requirements and applicable regulations and it is 
adequate to support the stability and use of the product. 
Adventitious agents 
Gelatin obtained from bovine/limed bone is used in the product. Valid TSE certificates granted by the 
EDQM have been provided and confirm, for each source of gelatin, compliance with the Note for 
guidance on minimising the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via human 
and veterinary medicinal products (EMEA/410/01). There are no novel excipients used in the 
manufacture of Constella. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process consists of three main steps: i) dissolution of the active substance and the 
excipients in an acidic coating solution, ii) coating of this solution onto inert microcrystalline cellulose 
beads and iii) encapsulation of the appropriate amount of coated beads in hard gelatin capsules. A 
detailed manufacturing description and flow scheme have been provided. The manufacturing process is 
considered to be a non-standard process. Adequate in-process controls are performed to control the 
manufacturing process. The acceptance criteria and the test methods are adequately chosen to ensure 
that the finished product will comply with the specification limits. The manufacturing process involves 
no novel technology or procedures and the manufacturer has demonstrated to have experience with 
the technology used.  
The manufacturing process has been validated on two production scale batches which have been 
manufactured with linaclotide from each active substance supplier. The validation will be completed 
before marketing of the finished product following an agreed validation scheme. The full-scale 
validation scheme proposed by the applicant was agreed with the Scientific Advice Working Party in 
Scientific Advice in October 2009. The proposed sampling plan, tests, acceptance criteria and 
methodology are considered adequate to validate the manufacturing process.  
The validation results obtained so far indicate that the manufacturing process for Constella is capable 
of consistently producing hard capsules that meet the quality and release specifications as detailed in 
the finished product specifications. 
Product Specification  
The finished product release and shelf-life specification includes tests for appearance (visual), identity 
(HPLC) and assay of linaclotide (HPLC), degradation products (HPLC), titanium dioxide and iron oxide 
identity (in-house method), content uniformity (Ph.Eur), water content (Ph.Eur.), mulitmers (in-house 
method), dissolution (Ph.Eur.) and microbial control (Ph.Eur.). The finished product specifications are 
standard for hard gelatin capsules. The proposed test procedures and acceptance criteria comply with 
the requirements of the Ph.Eur. and ICH guidelines. All tests included in the specification have been 
satisfactorily described and validated. Appropriate data have been presented to justify the release 
specifications for each quality characteristic that is controlled. Impurities and degradation products 
have been evaluated and found to be acceptable from the point of view of safety. Batch analysis data 
are provided for two validation batches (one for each active substance supplier), six pilot scale batches 
and several other supporting batches. Batch analysis results comply with the predefined specifications 
and confirm consistency & uniformity of manufacture and indicate that the process is under control.  
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 14/133
 
 
 
 
Stability of the product 
Stability studies have been carried out under long term (25°C/60%RH), intermediate (30°C/65%RH) 
and accelerated (40°C/75%RH) conditions, on six pilot scale batches using the active substance from 
both active substance manufacturers. Up to 24, 12 and 6 months data have been provided, 
respectively. The parameters tested and analytical methods used are identical to those used for the 
release specifications, except for the content uniformity and identity tests which are not tested in the 
stability studies. The methods used for assay and related substances were proven to be stability 
indicating. Two production scale stability batches have been manufactured at the proposed finished 
product manufacturing site, according to the proposed process and using the active substance obtained 
from the two proposed active substance manufacturers. Stability tests have been carried out in the 
packaging proposed for marketing. 
All results at long term and intermediate storage conditions were conform to the proposed end of the 
shelf-life specifications, and no differences in stability were observed between batches from the two 
active substance suppliers. However, the CHMP believes that the proposed end of shelf life 
specifications for specified and unspecified impurities and water content can be further tightened in 
view of the batch analysis data provided by the applicant. Hence, the CHMP has recommended the 
applicant to re-evaluate the limits of the finished product shelf-life specification once full-term stability 
data on three process validation batches are available, together with release and available stability 
data for at least ten more full-scale production batches.  
A bracketing study design was proposed for the generation of stability data on the four proposed pack 
sizes. This approach was agreed with the SAWP in 2009. The bracketing strategy was also applied for 
in-use stability testing. Up to 18 months in-use stability data have been provided with the fresh 
manufactured finished product and up to 12 months with the aged product (stored during 9, 12 or 24 
months). From the in-use stability studies was concluded that after first opening, all pack sizes of 
Constella are stable for up to 18 weeks under the normal conditions of use. 
Photostability studies have been carried out in accordance with ICH Q1B and confirmed that the 
product is not photosensitive and the primary packaging affords adequate protection from light.  
In conclusion, the stability results presented were satisfactory and support the proposed shelf life for 
the commercially packaged product under the conditions specified in the SmPC.  
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that 
the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic.  
The pharmaceutical part of the MAA dossier focused on the fact that Constella contains a low amount 
of active substance, and the fact that the active substance is a synthetic peptide. The CHMP considers 
that the applicant has an adequate manufacturing process and controls in place to ensure a good 
content uniformity, stability and overall quality of the finished product. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were no unresolved quality issues which could have an impact 
on the benefit/risk ratio of the product.  
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 15/133
 
 
 
 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has 
been presented to give reassurance on TSE safety. 
2.2.6.  Recommendation for future quality development   
The CHMP recommends the applicant to re-evaluate the limits of the finished product shelf-life 
specification once full-term stability data on three process validation batches are available, together 
with release and available stability data for at least ten more full-scale production batches.  
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A comprehensive non-clinical programme has been performed covering studies to investigate 
pharmacology including safety pharmacology, pharmacokinetics as well as toxicology including 
repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential and toxicity to reproduction and 
development. The studies have been performed in rats, mice, rabbits, dogs and cynomolgus monkeys. 
Drug administration was performed mainly per os, mimicking the human route of administration, or 
i.v.. 
Scientific advice was received from the European Medicines Agency on non clinical development, where 
issues about genotoxicity studies, safety pharmacology studies and general non clinical development 
were discussed. Other scientific advice on non-clinical development was received nationally.  
The pivotal toxicology studies supporting the safety of linaclotide were conducted in compliance with 
Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) regulations and International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) 
guidelines, with the exception of a single dose toxicity study in monkeys.  
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Linaclotide is a guanlylate cyclase-C (GC-C) receptor agonist. GC-C receptor is found in the luminal 
aspect of intestinal epithelium and dopamine neurons in the brain, and is a key receptor for heat-stable 
enterotoxins that are responsible for acute secretory diarrhea. Linaclotide is structurally related to the 
guanylin peptide family, which is involved in the regulation of intestinal fluid homeostasis and bowel 
function, and includes the hormones guanylin and uroguanlyin. Linaclotide, similarly to guanylin and 
uroguanylin, is able to increase intracellular concentrations of the second messenger cyclic guanosine 
monophosphate (cGMP) through activation of the GC-C receptor, located on the apical surface of 
epithelial cells throughout the intestine. The presence of intracellular cGMP triggers a signal 
transduction cascade that leads to the activation of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance 
regulator (CFTR) through its cGMP-dependent phosphorylation by protein kinase G II (PKG II). CFTR 
activation causes secretion of chloride and bicarbonate into the intestinal lumen, causing an increase in 
fluid secretion and acceleration of GI transit. cGMP is also transported out of the cell into the intestinal 
lumen and submucosa, modulating the activity of local afferent nerve fibers and causing a reduced 
visceral pain. Linaclotide has one active metabolite (MM-419447) which is formed by the removal of 
one carboxy-terminal tyrosine. Linaclotide and MM-419447 are approximately equally potent in 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 16/133
 
 
 
 
 
activation of the GC-C receptor. MM-419447 is a metabolite in all species involved in the development 
program, including man. 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
The Applicant has performed several receptor binding studies in human T84 cells, freshly isolated rat 
intestinal epithelial cells, in wild-type and GC-C receptor KO mice, and in rat intestinal brush-border 
membranes to show linaclotide and linaclotide’s active metabolite MM-419447 affinity to the GC-C-
receptor. Linaclotide and MM-419447 were equally potent in binding to the GC-C-receptor with a Ki in 
the low nanomolecular range. The study on pH dependence [MDP-103-067-PHR-01] revealed no 
significant influence of the pH on the binding affinity, predicting that linaclotide will likely bind to the 
receptor even in the gastrointestinal environment. 
Further studies performed with T84 and CaCo cells showed that linaclotide and its active metabolite 
MM-419447 stimulate an increase of cellular cGMP concentration and a cGMP efflux to the basolateral 
and apical side of the gastrointestinal cells. Although not directly shown the Applicants conclusion is 
reasonable, that this effect is mediated by an active transport process. 
Linaclotide and MM-419447 ability to influence intestinal fluid secretion was further investigated in 
juvenile mice, rats and GC-C-receptor KO mice. Linaclotide and MM-419447 were shown to increase 
gastrointestinal fluid secretion in animals with functional GC-C receptors. The studies in mice, rats and 
GC-C KO mice show that linaclotide enhances gastrointestinal transit in GC-C-receptor competent 
animals and the occurrence of watery and non-formed faeces. The two conducted In Vivo studies in 
rats to evaluate the GI-transit after postoperative ileus and after opiate induced delay demonstrated 
that linaclotide has the ability to reverse on the one hand the surgically induced delayed GI transit and 
on the other hand the opiate induced constipation dose dependently. These pharmacological results 
can be expected for a selective agonistic ligand of the GC-C-receptor of the intestinal lumen, supported 
by a negative result for binding to opiate receptors tested in the receptor binding studies. 
Further studies were performed in rats, mice and KO mice to investigate linaclotides effects in models 
of visceral pain. The studies show that linaclotide reduces visceral pain in inflammatory and stress 
induced pain models in GC-C receptor competent animals and that this effect is most likely mediated 
by the liberation of cGMP.  
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
To assess any further secondary effects by linaclotide one in vitro receptor screen and three in vivo 
pharmacodynamic studies have been performed. 
In the receptor binding study 50 mammalian receptors and ion channels were tested. No significant 
effects were observed up to a concentration of 10 µM, compared to the respective specific ligand. The 
concentration at which these possible interactions have been tested is more than 1.000-fold higher 
than the predicted pharmacological concentration for linaclotide in humans. 
Effects of linaclotide on the paracellular permeability of intestinal epithelium were not detected in an 
in-vivo study in rats by using radiolabeled EDTA for detection in the urine.  
The Applicant has performed two studies to investigate linaclotide’s potential activity on known 
substrate transporter P-gp. The Applicants conclusion, that linaclotide is not likely to be a target of the 
P-gp transporter is supported. Although linaclotide is shown to be an inhibitor of the OATP2B1 
transporter in vitro and the active metabolite MM-419447 of BCRP and PEPT1, considering the very 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 17/133
 
 
 
 
short half-life of linaclotide and its active metabolite within the gastrointestinal lumen as shown in the 
animal studies the clinical relevance appears currently to be low. 
Studies with linaclotide impurities or degradants revealed no noteworthy pharmacodynamic effects. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
The Applicant has performed in vitro and in vivo safety pharmacology studies to investigate potential 
effects on cardiovascular function. Effects on respiratory function were investigated in anesthetised 
dogs. Effects on the CNS were assessed during the repeated dose toxicity studies.    
Linaclotide showed a very weak activity in the micro molar range in the hERG Assay, whereas MM-
419447 was not tested. In the in vivo-studies in dogs some effects were noticed after intravenous 
administration of linaclotide, but were believed to be without biological significance. The active 
metabolite MM-419447 was not tested itself. Since linaclotide has a very low oral bioavailability and 
since no relevant plasma concentrations will be reached in the clinical use of the medicinal product the 
CHMP concluded that further studies on cardiovascular parameters are not required. No effects on 
respiratory parameters were observed. No separate studies on linaclotide’s influence on central 
nervous parameters have been performed. However, no effects on neurobehaviour parameters have 
been observed during the repeated dose toxicity studies.  
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No specific pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies were conducted, which is accepted. Non-clinical 
studies regarding food interaction are not required due to the available data in healthy subjects 
suggesting that food increases the pharmacodynamics of linaclotide 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption: 
The applicant has performed studies in rat and mice to investigate linaclotide/MM-419447 absorption. 
The studies show clearly that systemic exposure after oral administration is low. 
Distribution: 
In line with linaclotide’s low oral biovailability, no linaclotide or MM-419447 could be detected in the 
study on distribution. Placental transfer and excretion within milk was not specifically investigated. 
Since conventional radio-assays will not be very significant, further studies were not considered 
necessary.  
Metabolism: 
The metabolism of linaclotide was investigated in a set of experiments, predominantly in rodents. 
Linaclotide is metabolised in the intestine by immediate break down of the disulfide bridges which 
prone linaclotide to further digestion by the enzymes present in the gastrointestinal environment. 
Several breakdown products containing 3-13 amino acids have been identified. Only one metabolite, 
MM-419447, was shown to be pharmacodynamic active.  
A second set of experiments investigated the effects of linaclotide on the human CYP450 systems 
without any evidence that linaclotide will inhibit the human cytochrome system. A similar result was 
obtained for MM-419447. 
Excretion: 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 18/133
 
 
 
 
The applicant has performed one study in rats to investigate the faecal concentration of linaclotide and 
its metabolite MM-419447 after oral administration in rats. The recovery was below 1% of the dose 
applied. In a second study in normal and functional deficient rats it was shown that linaclotide and MM-
4194467 are predominantly excreted by the kidney in the case of reaching systemic circulation; 
however other excretion pathways appear to be involved. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
Two single dose toxicity studies have been performed in rats and two studies in Cynomolgus Monkeys 
for evaluating NOAEL and MTD after oral or intravenous administration. No related effects for 
linaclotide after oral or intravenous administration in rats were observed in both sexes up to the 
maximal dose of 5.0 mg/kg; therefore a NOAEL was determined to be ≥5.0 mg/kg.  
In Cynomolgus monkeys, changes in stool consistency (nonformed or liquid feces) effects could be 
observed at oral doses ≥1.5 mg/kg and are probably related to the pharmacological action of 
linaclotide. Single intravenous doses of linaclotide up to 15 mg/kg were well tolerated, associated with 
reversible stool consistency changes only. In an additional Phase 2, two male and two female monkeys 
were intravenously dosed for seven consecutive days with 15 mg/kg/day linaclotide. Plasma levels 
declined rapidly after administration down to the LLOQ of 3.0 ng/ml and mean t1/2 was approximately 
1.5h on day 1 and 7 for both genders. Therefore, a NOAEL ≥5.0 mg/kg after oral administration and a 
MTD of ≥15.0 mg/kg after intravenous administration, respectively, were determined. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
Repeated dose toxicity studies have been performed in rodents and non-rodent species. Two studies 
have been performed in mice. One study of 13 weeks and one of 26 weeks with an additional recovery 
period of two weeks revealed an NOAEL of 20 mg/kg/day due to an increased mortality in the higher 
dosing groups. The cause of death in the higher dosing groups could not clearly be estimated, since no 
clear correlation could be found in the pathology investigations. No clear pharmacodynamic response is 
obtained in these studies, since the changes in stool consistency and defecation frequency are not in 
accordance with the proposed pharmacodynamic effect. However, linaclotide was shown to be 
pharmacodynamic active in the previous sections of this dossier.  
Two studies of 2 weeks and 13 weeks with an additional recovery period have been performed in rats. 
The NOAEL was estimated to be above 100 mg/kg/day, which was the highest dose tested in this 
species.  
Two studies of 2 and 13 weeks with an additional recovery of 2  weeks have been performed in 
cynomolgus monkeys. The NOAEL was estimated to be 5 mg/kg/day due to an exaggerated 
pharmacodynamic effect in the higher dosing groups. The studies in non-human primates are 
performed in small animal numbers for animal welfare reasons, and therefore the database for clinical 
observations and pathology is rather sparse. However, the use of cynomolgus monkeys was 
adequately justified by the Applicant. 
There are some findings in the heart of the high dose group/recovery animals which are rather 
unexpected. In mice degeneration and necrosis of the heart, necrosis of the coronary artery and 
mineralization were observed, in rats there are mononuclear infiltrations and a decrease in heart 
weights; and in monkeys an increased incidence of inflammation processes were reported (MNP-103-
021-TXR-01). However, ECG recordings which have been performed during the studies revealed no 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 19/133
 
 
 
 
effects on cardiac activity. All other findings are likely to be incidental in rats and monkeys and the 
tolerability of linaclotide is limited by the pharmacodynamic activity of linaclotide in these species. In 
addition, in the 13-week study in mice, mortality related to linaclotide was observed at dose levels ≥ 
100 mg/kg/day, along with microscopic changes in the lymphoid system, GI tract, kidney and heart at 
doses ≥ 100 mg/kg/day. In the 13-week study in monkeys a male in the middle-dose group was 
euthanized with microscopic lymphoid lesions and bacterial and fungal colonization of the esophagus 
consistent with immunologic compromise. However, no similar findings were detected in other animals, 
and in the 39-week study in monkeys (MNP-103-028-TXR-01) the cause of the unscheduled 
termination of two animals seem to be an exaggerated pharmacological effect of linaclotide without 
apparent effects on the immune system. Therefore, it is considered that the changes observed in 
organs or tissues described in the 13-week mouse study and the 13-week monkey study are secondary 
to the exaggerated pharmacological effect of linaclotide or spontaneous, and they have no clinical 
relevance 
Genotoxicity and Carcinogenicity 
Linaclotide was tested in vitro for genotoxic effects and in life time bioassays in mouse and rat for 
carcinogenic effects. No treatment related effects were observed. It was noted though that no 
linaclotide was detected in plasma during the carcinogenicity studies, in contrast to the 26-week 
repeated toxicity study. However, it is acknowledged that these observations are likely to be caused by 
an improved methodology for plasma bioanalysis developed after the initiation of the carcinogenicity 
studies and used in the 26-week toxicity study in mice. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
The reproductive and developmental toxicity of linaclotide was evaluated in a fertility and embryo-
foetal development study in rats, embryo-foetal development studies in rats, mice and rabbits and a 
peri- and post-natal development study in rats. The juvenile toxicity was evaluated in mice and 
rabbits. Doses for reproductive toxicity studies in rats, mice and rabbits were selected based dose 
range finding studies.  
In the fertility and embryo-foetal development study in rats, linaclotide did not induce adverse effects 
on male and female fertility.  
No treatment-related adverse effects were noted up to the highest dose of 100 mg/kg/day (3243-fold 
the maximum recommended human dose, adjusted for body surface). The slightly lower body weight 
gain and slightly lower body weights noted in the 10, 50 and 100 mg/kg/day groups reaching 
significant differences at 50 and 100 mg/kg/day had no effect on the reproductive parameters.  
In the early embryo-foetal development study in mice test article-related mortality and moribundity 
were observed at dosage levels of 40 and 100/40 mg/kg/day. Due to clinical signs, mortality and 
moribundity noted in the 40 and 100 mg/kg/day the 100 mg/kg/day dosage level was reduced to 40 
mg/kg/day. Developmental toxicity was evidenced in the 40 and 100 mg/kg/day groups by significant 
lower mean foetal body weights resulting in lower mean gravid uterine weight. In addition, test article-
related increased mean litter proportions of open eyelid and reduced body weight was noted at 40 
mg/kg/day and vertebral anomaly with or without associated rib anomaly were noted in the 40 and 
100/40 mg/kg/day groups. In contrast to these findings no clinical signs up to the highest dose group 
of 80 mg/kg/day were noted in the dose range finding study.  
Based on the clinical signs, mortality and moribundity, as well as effects on the body weight, 
intrauterine growth and foetal morphology, a dose level of 5 mg/kg/day (81-fold the maximum 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 20/133
 
 
 
 
recommended human dose, adjusted for body surface area) was determined to be the NOAEL for 
maternal and embryo-foetal developmental toxicity in mice. 
In rats and rabbits embryo-foetal development studies, no effects were seen on body weight, body 
weight gain, and food consumption. There was no evidence of maternal toxicity, embryo lethality, 
foetal-toxicity or teratogenicity in the studies. The minor dose dependent increase of soft feaces and 
brown fur staining in the rabbits is consistent with the known pharmacologic activity of linaclotide. 
Toxicokinetic results indicated no accumulation of linaclotide after multiple administrations.  
Exposure to linaclotide from implantation to weaning (prenatal and postnatal development study 
conducted with linaclotide in rats) did not induce maternal toxicity. Viability, growth, mating and 
fertility in the offspring were not affected by daily treatment with linaclotide.  
Behavioural and reproductive development of the F1 adult generation and the viability and growth of 
the F2 generation pups were unaffected by linaclotide administration.  
The placental transfer was not evaluated. The concentration of linaclotide in milk of lactating rats was 
not tested. 
The NOAEL for the F0, F1 and F2 generations was determined to be ≥ 100 mg/kg/day.  
Toxicity of linaclotide in the juvenile organism has been investigated in the rabbit and mice. No specific 
toxic effects specific for juvenile animals have been observed in juvenile animals in the dose ranging 
study in rabbits. In the studies in mice the juvenile animals were more sensitive than the adult mice. 
Higher dose levels of linaclotide were tolerated when animals were older. An increased sensitivity of 
juvenile mice to orally administered linaclotide may be related to the increased expression of intestinal 
GC-C receptors in young animals (Al-Majali et al. 1999; Cohen et al, 1986) or possibly other factors 
such as those related to an immature GI system. 
Toxicokinetic data 
The Applicant has performed toxicokinetic evaluation for the pivotal toxicity studies, which show a 
rather low animal exposure to linaclotide and MM-419447 at the respective NOAEL. This is in line with 
the metabolic degradation within the gastrointestinal environment. Therefore, the systemic half-life of 
the substance was not estimated in most of the studies. In humans exposed to therapeutic doses of 
linaclotide the systemic concentration was below the limit of detection. Therefore, no formal animal to 
human safety margin could be calculated by these parameters. The Applicant has therefore performed 
a safety assessment based on body surface area. These calculations revealed a safety margin greater 
than 300. In addition, it should be considered that the dose limiting factor in the monkey studies was 
due to exaggerated pharmacodynamic effects. 
Local Tolerance 
No specific local tolerance studies were performed, but effects on local tolerance were detected in the 
repeated-dose toxicity studies (p.o.): reversible erosions in stomach and cecum in mice, and in the 
pivotal study in monkeys, the two euthanized animals showed microscopic findings 
(degeneration/necrosis) in the mucosal glands and surface epithelium in the colon, cecum and rectum. 
In the single-dose toxicity studies where linaclotide was administered intravenously, no effects in the 
site of injection were found. The effects on local tolerance are not considered to have clinical relevance 
because they are reversible and the safety margin is sufficient. Linaclotide is orally-administered; 
therefore no sensitization studies are required. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 21/133
 
 
 
 
Other toxicity studies 
Regarding the multimer impurities, multiple linaclotide batches containing high levels of multimers 
were used in GLP toxicology studies. The batch PPL-MD11000501, with a 13.1% of multimers, was 
used in 13-week rat and monkey studies. No adverse findings were detected in these studies. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The active ingredient linaclotide is a peptide. A general exemption from an environmental risk 
assessment is granted for peptides in guideline (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00). This exemption is based 
on the assumptions that peptides are readily biodegradable, can only be administered in a parenteral 
way, are not excreted in an intact form and do not reach the environment. 
These assumptions are not true for linaclotide. Linaclotide is a member of the guanylin peptide family, 
which includes the natural hormones uanylin and uroguanylin as well as the bacterial heat stable 
enterotoxin, STa.  Like STa, linaclotide is stable across a broad pH range including low pH found in the 
stomach. Due to its exceptional stability (compared to other peptides), linaclotide may be administered 
orally. In the human intestinal tract the 14th amino acid, Tyrosin, is cleaved resulting in an equally 
bioactive metabolite MM 419447. The active ingredient and its active metabolite are excreted to up to 
6 % and might reach the environment. Therefore no general exemption can be granted from an 
environmental risk assessment for linaclotide.  
The environmental risk assessment at Phase I leads to a PEC surface water below 0.01 µg/L. According 
to EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00 information on the octanol-water partitioning coefficient for the active 
ingredient is required in Phase I.  However, the octanol/water partition coefficient that is normally used 
in Phase I to screen for potentially bioaccumulative substances is not a good predictor for this property 
for macromolecular compounds of the size of linaclotide. The applicant states that considering all 
available information (low LogKow, high solubility and low permeability into Caco-2 cells) suggest that 
bioaccumulation of linaclotide should be considered very unlikely. This was accepted by the CHMP. 
Therefore, a Phase II assessment has not been conducted. 
Table 1.  Summary of main study results 
Substance (INN/Invented Name): linaclotide 
CAS-number (if available): 851199-59-2 
PBT screening 
Bioaccumulation potential- log 
K ow 
PBT-assessment 
Parameter 
Custom method at 
pH 7.4 
Result relevant 
for conclusion 
log K ow  
Result 
log D ow below method 
quantification limit 
Conclusion 
logD ow (pH 7.4) 
likely below -2 
Conclusion 
likely below -2 (see 
above) 
not a good 
predictor for 
bioaccumulation 
for polymeric 
substances 
no data available 
no data available 
BCF 
DT50 or ready 
biodegradability 
NOEC or CMR 
A PBT assessment has not been conducted. The available 
information from the PBT screening step (low logDow, high solubility 
and low permeability into Caco-2 cells in virtro) suggests that 
bioaccumulation of linaclotide should be considered very unlikely. 
no data available 
Bioaccumulation 
Persistence 
Toxicity 
PBT-statement : 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 22/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Substance (INN/Invented Name): linaclotide 
Phase I  
Calculation 
Conclusion 
PEC  surfacewater , default 
< 0.01 threshold  
A Phase II assessment has not been conducted as PEC surfacewater is below the action limit of 10 ng/L. 
Value 
0.00145 
Unit 
g/L 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Linaclotide, a fully synthetic peptide, mimics the function of the endogenous hormones guanylin and 
uroguanlyin. Based on its mechanism of action it can be assumed that Linaclotide and its active 
metabolite effects on regulation of intestinal fluid homeostasis, bowel function and visceral pain are 
mediated by the linaclotide induced liberation of cGMP from gastrointestinal cells.  
Secondary pharmacodynamics studies and demonstration of a very short half-life of linaclotide and its 
active metabolite within the gastrointestinal lumen reveal that non-specific interaction and effect on 
passive transport processes are very unlikely.  
Linaclotide has a very low oral bioavailability and no relevant plasma concentrations will be reached in 
the clinical use of the medicinal product therefore taken together the core battery on safety 
pharmacology reveals no specific risks for the clinical use of linaclotide. 
Phamacokinetic studies on Linaclotide reveal low exposure after oral administration and this is most 
probably caused by a low absorption and not by an enhanced degradation in the liver or an 
enterohepatic recirculation. The low absorption reflects in an absence of detection of Linaclotide in 
studies of distribution. Metabolism is due to digestion by enzymes present in the gastrointestinal 
environment and excretion of the Linaclotide and its metabolite is very low in the faeces. 
Changes observed in organs or tissues described above in the 13-week repeat dose toxicity studies in 
mice and monkeys are considered secondary to the exaggerated pharmacological effect of linaclotide 
or spontaneous, and have no clinical relevance. 
No treatment related effects were observed as genotoxic and/or carcinogenic. 
Based on the reproductive and developmental toxicity studies the risk of reproductive or 
developmental toxicity in humans is considered to be low. However, because animal reproduction 
studies are not always predictive of human responses, the actual risk of linaclotide during pregnancy in 
humans remains uncertain. This is properly addressed in the SmPC. 
Given the low oral bioavailability and low permeability coefficients of linaclotide, it is unlikely that 
measurable active peptide would be present in the milk of lactating women.  
In the studies in mice the juvenile animals were more sensitive than the adult mice therefore based on 
these nonclinical data, very young paediatric patients may be extremely sensitive to the effects of 
orally administered linaclotide and the sensitivity may decrease with age. Therefore, Constella is not 
recommended for use in children and adolescents; this is reflected in the SmPC.  
The performed safety assessment based on body surface area revealed a safety margin greater than 
300. The Applicant’s approach is acceptable under these conditions.  
Regarding the multimer impurities no adverse findings were detected in these studies. 
Available information on environmental risk assessment (low LogKow, high solubility and low 
permeability intoCaco-2 cells) suggest that bioaccumulation of linaclotide should be considered very 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 23/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
unlikely. In conclusion, PEC surfacewater for linaclotide is below the action limit of 0.01 µg/L and 
Linaclotide is not considered to possess PBT properties. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
From the non-clinical point of view the Applicant has investigated the pharmacodynamic and 
pharmacokinetic properties and the toxicity of linaclotide to a sufficient extend to support the 
indication applied for. Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional 
studies of safety pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential and 
toxicity to reproduction and development. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
The clinical development program included 7 completed randomized, well-controlled, clinical studies (3 
phase I, 2 phase II and 2 phase III) and 2 ongoing open-label long-term safety (LTS) studies, with an 
overall exposed population to linaclotide of 2753 IBS-C patients and 75 healthy subjects. The 2 pivotal 
studies were randomized placebo-controlled double-blind clinical trials with a duration of 12 and 26 
weeks, designed to assess the effects of linaclotide on the signs and symptoms of IBS-C that are most 
important to patients. The two long-term safety studies, MCP-103-305, and LIN-MD-02 are ongoing; 
initially submitted data with data lock October 2010 was during the evaluation updated with data lock 
June 2011. 
For the development of medicinal products for the treatment of IBS, the “Points to consider on the 
evaluation of medicinal products for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome” (CPMP/EWP/785/97) 
are relevant. Generally, the guideline refers to two alternatives for drug development, referring to the 
nature of disease: Either a short-term intermittent treatment can be aimed it, for which it is required 
to elucidate several aspects of this mode of administration (dose-response, first use, repeated use, 
withdrawal and rebound effects), or the development for a long-term continuous use of the product, 
requiring the inclusion of patients with well-defined IBS into trials that should have a duration long 
enough to determine if any response will be sustained (6 months is given), and to evaluate a 
withdrawal effect. Linaclotide has been developed for long-term continuous treatment. 
The clinical development programme was subject to Scientific Advice by the EMA as well as several 
national competent authorities.. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
 
Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Table 1: Tabular overview of phase 1 and 2a studies: 
Study number 
Title of the study 
MCP-103-103 
A Randomized, Open-Label, Two-Period, Two-Sequence, Crossover Trial Of Oral 
Linaclotide Acetate Administered To Healthy Volunteers under Fed and Fasting 
Conditions. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 24/133
 
 
 
 
Study number 
Title of the study 
MCP-103-001 
Single Oral, Ascending Dose, Placebo-Controlled study in healthy males and 
postmenopausal females 
MCP-103-002 
A 7-Day, Oral, Multiple-Ascending Dose, Placebo-Controlled Study of MD-1100 
Acetate in Healthy Subjects 
MCP-103-005 
A Phase 2 Double-Blind, Randomized, Placebo-Controlled, Parallel-Group Study of 
the Pharmacodynamic Effects of Orally Administered 100 mcg and 1000 mcg QD 
MD-1100 Acetate on Gastrointestinal Transit in Patients with Constipation 
Predominant Irritable Bowel Syndrome (C-IBS). 
The studies in healthy volunteers included 22 placebo- and 75 linaclotide-treated subjects altogether 
being treated for a maximum of 7 days. The phase 2a study included 36 patients randomised into 
three groups. 
Table 2: Overview on phase 2b and phase 3 studies. 
Study ID 
Design 
Study 
Study 
Subjects by arm 
Gender 
Primary 
Duration 
Posology 
Objective 
entered/ 
completers 
No. of 
study 
centres 
Endpoint 
M/F 
Median 
Age 
MCP-103-
randomized, 
72µg, 145 
Evaluation of 
79/63 
387 F/ 33 
Change in 
202 
92 
placebo-
µg, 290 
dose-ranging 
82/67 
M 
weekly CSBM 
controlled 
µg, 579 
safety, 
85/71 
rate from 
double-blind 
3 months 
µg 
or 
efficacy and 
89/71 420 
Age: 45.0 
week 1 
dose 
linaclotide 
through 12 
placebo 
response  
85/65 
once daily 
placebo 
LIN-MD-31 
randomized, 
290 µg or 
Evaluation of 
406/312 lin 
726 F/ 76 
Co-primary: 
118 
placebo-
placebo 
safety and 
397/335 plc. 
M 
controlled 
once daily 
efficacy 
12 week 
abdominal 
double-blind 
3 months 
plus 4 weeks 
randomised 
withdrawal 
MCP-103-
randomized, 
290 µg or 
Evaluation of 
402/294 
302 
102 
placebo-
placebo 
safety and 
linaclotide 
controlled 
once daily 
efficacy 
double-blind 
6 months 
403/305 
placebo. 
Age: 43.5 
pain 
(mean) 
responder; 
12 week IBS 
degree of 
relief 
responder 
Co-primary: 
12 week 
abdominal 
pain 
responder; 
12 week IBS 
degree of 
relief 
responder 
In addition, data from the PK and safety data from the development of linaclotide for the treatment of 
chronic constipation (CC) was provided. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 25/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three different formulations of linaclotide have been evaluated in the clinical studies: an oral aqueous 
solution of linaclotide (Formulation A), an oral hard gelatine capsule containing linaclotide (Formulation 
B) and an improved capsule formulation (Formulation C, proposed commercial formulation). Table 3 
indicates which formulation has been used in the different studies.  
Table 3: Linaclotide Formulations used in the Clinical studies. (PK studies are highlighted in 
bold). 
Linaclotide Formulation  Description of Clinical Studies  
Clinical Study Numbers 
 Formulation A 
(Oral Solution) 
Formulation B 
(Oral Hard Gelatine 
Capsule) 
Formulation C 
(Oral Hard Gelatine 
Capsule)  
Proposed Commercial 
Formulation 
Phase 1 Safety and Tolerability Studies   MCP-103-001, MCP-103-002 
Phase 2a Studies 
Phase 1 Food Effect Study  
Phase 2b Studies 
MCP-103-004, MCP-103-005 
MCP-103-103 
MCP-103-201, MCP-103-202 
Phase 3 Trials  
LTS Studies  
MCP-103-303, MCP-103-302, 
LIN-MD-01,  
LIN-MD-31 
MCP-103-305, LIN-MD-02 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Linaclotide pharmacokinetics, have been assessed in three in-vivo studies in healthy volunteers, and in 
the two phase 3 studies in IBS-C in patients and in two such studies in CC patients. An overview on 
these studies, including the main results, is given in the following table. 
Table 4: Summary of clinical PK results following oral dosing of linaclotide in humans: 
Study 
Number 
Linaclotide Doses  
(PK Subjects) 
Plasma 
Collection Times 
Linaclotide Plasma 
Concentrations 
MM-419447 
Plasma 
Concentrations 
PK STUDIES IN HEALTHY VOLUNTEERS 
MCP-
103-
001 
MCP-
103-
002 
MCP-
103-
103 
Single 
Placebo (6); 29 µg (4); 
97 µg (8); 290 µg (4); 
966 µg (4); 2897 µg (4) 
QD x 7 days 
Placebo (16); 29 µg (8); 
97 µg (8); 290 µg (8); 
966 µg (8) 
QD x 7 days  
290 µg (9 Fed) 
QD x 7 days  
290 µg (10 Fasted) 
0, 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 
3, 4, 6, 9, 12, 24, 
36, and 48 h 
All BQL  
(LLOQ = 3.00 ng/ml) 
All BQL  
(LLOQ = 3.00 
ng/ml) 
Day 1 & 7:  
0.5, 1, 3, 6, 9, 12, 
and 24 h 
(pre-dose on Day 
2) 
Day 7 
0, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 
6, and 24 h 
All BQL  
(LLOQ = 3.00 ng/ml) 
All BQL  
(LLOQ = 3.00 
ng/ml) 
All BQL  
(LLOQ = 0.200 
ng/ml) 
All BQL  
(LLOQ = 0.200 
ng/ml) 
All BQL  
(LLOQ = 2.00 
ng/ml) 
All BQL  
(LLOQ = 2.00 
ng/ml) 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 26/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Number 
Linaclotide Doses  
(PK Subjects) 
Plasma 
Collection Times 
Linaclotide Plasma 
Concentrations 
MM-419447 
Plasma 
Concentrations 
Single 
2897 µg (9 Fed) 
0, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 
6, and 24 h 
All BQL  
(LLOQ = 0.200 
ng/ml) 
All BQL  
(LLOQ = 2.00 
ng/ml) 
Single 
2897 µg (9 Fasted) 
Subject 19 Cmax = 
0.212 ng/ml (0.5 h) 
Subject 12 C max = 
0.735 ng/ml  (2 h) 
(LLOQ = 0.200 
ng/ml) 
All BQL  
(LLOQ = 2.00 
ng/ml) 
SPARSE-SAMPLING PK STUDIES IN PATIENTS WITH CC 
LIN-
MD-01 
QD x 12 weeks 
Placebo (40); 145 µg (51); 
290 µg (53) 
MCP-
103-
303 
QD x 12 weeks 
Placebo (96); 145 µg 
(101); 290 µg (98) 
Day 1 
2 h 
Day 29 (± 3 days)  
Single time point  
(varied among 
patients) 
Day 1 
2 h 
Day 29 (± 3 days)  
Single time point  
(varied among 
patients) 
All BQL  
(LLOQ = 0.200 
ng/ml) 
All BQL  
(LLOQ = 2.00 
ng/ml) 
All BQL  
(LLOQ = 0.200 
ng/ml) 
All BQL  
(LLOQ = 2.00 
ng/ml) 
SPARSE-SAMPLING PK STUDIES IN PATIENTS WITH IBS-C 
LIN-
MD-31 
QD x 12 weeks 
Placebo (72); 290 µg (64) 
Day 1  
2 h 
MCP-
103-
302 
QD x 12 weeks  
Placebo (93); 290 µg (98) 
Day 29 (± 3 days)  
Single time point  
(varied among 
patients) 
Day 1 
2 h 
Day 29 (± 3 days)  
Single time point  
(varied among 
patients) 
All BQL  
(LLOQ = 0.200 
ng/ml) 
All BQL  
(LLOQ = 2.00 
ng/ml) 
Pt 07-2006 = 0.241 
ng/ml (Day 1) 
Pt 49-2006 = 0.239 
ng/ml (Day 1) 
(LLOQ = 0.200 
ng/ml) 
All BQL  
(LLOQ = 2.00 
ng/ml) 
The extent of the programme to explore the pharmacokinetics of linaclotide reflects that the substance, 
being a short, only 14-amino-acid peptide, is not relevantly taken up into systemic circulation. Three 
studies in healthy volunteers have only yielded measurable plasma concentrations in a minority of 
subjects treated with a 10-times supratherapeutic dose, and four studies in the clinical phase 3, with 
sparse PK sampling in 465 patients, have only resulted in measurable plasma concentrations in 2 
subjects. Therefore, certain studies of a classical PK programme have not been conducted, e.g. a mass 
balance study, metabolism, and excretion of the drug, or studies in special populations (renally and 
hepatically impaired patients). This is considered to be acceptable. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 27/133
 
 
 
 
 
For detection of linaclotide and MM-419447 in human plasma, only LC/MS/MS methods were applied. A 
initial LC/MS/MS method for the quantitation of linaclotide and MM-419447 in human plasma was 
developed and validated with a lower limit of quantitation (LLOQ) of 3 ng/mL for both parent and 
metabolite (method MNP-103-004). The LC/MS/MS bioanalytical method was refined (method MNP 103 
043) and was validated with a 15-fold increase in sensitivity for linaclotide (LLOQ = 0.2 ng/ml) and a 
1.5-fold increase for MM-419447 (LLOQ = 2.0 ng/ml). MNP-103-043 was used in the analysis of PK 
samples from the Phase 1 food-effect study (MCP-103-103) and the four Phase 3 trials (MCP-103-302, 
MCP-103-303, LIN-MD-01, and LIN-MD-31).  
Absorption  
The absorption PK of linaclotide could not be evaluated in humans due to extremely low plasma 
concentrations at clinical doses. Bioanalytical measurements were conducted in a total of seven studies 
including enrolled healthy volunteers (MCP-103-001, MCP-103-002, and MCP-103-103), patients with 
IBS-C (MCP-103-302 and LIN-MD-31), and patients with CC (LIN-MD-01 and MCP-103-303). 
Generally, neither linaclotide nor its metabolite was detectable in human plasma at the proposed 
commercial doses of linaclotide. In the target population, only 2 of the 162 patients treated with 
linaclotide who underwent PK sampling in the two IBS-C Phase 3 trials had measurable concentrations 
of linaclotide which were just above the LLOQ (0.2 ng/ml). No samples collected after four weeks of 
dosing showed linaclotide concentrations greater than the LLOQ, and none of the plasma samples 
collected during the study had measurable concentrations of MM-419447 (LLOQ = 2 ng/ml) at either 
time point. Of the subset of PK patients in the two similarly conducted CC Phase 3 trials (n = 303), 
none of them had measurable concentrations of linaclotide or MM-419447 at either time point. These 
results suggest that systemic exposure to linaclotide and its active primary metabolite MM-419447 
following oral administration is minimal. Further properties of the compound have been investigated in 
vitro, and it has been determined that – besides the degradation in the intestines – obviously also the 
low permeability in intestinal cells is responsible for the missing systemic availability. 
With regard to the two different capsule formulations subject to the clinical development t programme, 
similar observations i.e no observed absorption and similar pharmacokinetics in the food effect studies 
with formulations B and C provide evidence that there is no relevant impact on bioavailability of 
linaclotide due to the excipients. 
Distribution 
Distribution of linaclotide and its active primary metabolite MM-419447 could not be studied in humans 
due to their minimal absorption following oral administration of linaclotide. In mice, linaclotide and its 
metabolite MM-419447 were not detectable in brain, liver, or adipose tissues.  
Elimination 
Excretion: 
Nearly all orally dosed linaclotide is cleared via metabolism and degradation in the intestine, and only a 
small proportion is excreted as active peptide in the faeces of humans during a faecal recovery study in 
healthy subjects, which is consistent with results from non-clinical studies. The IV administration of 
linaclotide in rats identified the kidney as the primary clearance organ for any active peptide in 
systemic circulation, with biliary clearance likely serving as an additional clearance pathway. 
Not more than 6% of a single dose is finally excreted in faeces, with no relevant influence of 
concomitant food intake on this rate of recovery of active substance. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 28/133
 
 
 
 
Metabolism: 
Pre-clinical in-vitro investigations have shown that linaclotide does not interact with cytochrome P450 
enzymes and is not metabolized in vitro by human intestinal microsomes. Peptides are typically 
degraded by proteolytic enzymes in the GI tract, and thus the metabolism and degradation of 
linaclotide was elucidated through a series of nonclinical studies and in vitro studies using the intestinal 
contents of rodents and humans. Proteolytic cleavage of the C-terminal tyrosine of linaclotide in the 
intestine yields the only known active metabolite, MM-419447, a 13-amino acid GC-C agonist with 
similar pharmacological properties to linaclotide. There are no known genetic polymorphisms in the 
degradation of linaclotide to its metabolite MM-419447. 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
In light of the low systemic exposure, no specific studies have been conducted, which is considered 
acceptable. 
Special populations 
No information on linaclotide PK is available in the elderly, children, hepatic or renal impairment, 
gender or race factors. The lack of measurable systemic concentrations of linaclotide and MM-419447 
following oral dosing of linaclotide suggests that traditional PK studies on special populations are 
unlikely to yield interpretable results. The risk of altered clearance in special populations, such as 
renally or hepatically impaired patients, appears to be minimal given the low systemic availability of 
linaclotide. The lack of data together with the recommendation that the product should not be used in 
children is included in in the SmPC.  
Since patients with chronic inflammatory bowel disease were excluded from the phase 3 protocols and 
no trials were conducted with patients with bowel inflammation, no information is available regarding 
bioavailability in more severe intestinal inflammation. According to the characteristics of linaclotide, a 
study in a diseased gut model would be of limited value and bibliographic data shows that 
inflammatory conditions appear to have little effect on drug absorption. In addition, during Phase 3 
trials, a difference in exposure between IBS-C patients and healthy volunteers was not detected. 
Therefore the lack of information regarding the effects of inflammation on absorption and the 
recommendation not to use linaclotide in these patients is adequately reflected in the SmPC. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Linaclotide is, according to in-vitro investigations, neither a substrate, nor an inducer or inhibitor of 
relevant cytochrome drug metabolising enzymes, nor for a variety of relevant transporters, such as p-
glycoprotein, MRP2-4, BCRP, OATP1B1 and B3, PEPT1, or OCTN1 at relevant concentrations. 
Linaclotide is unlikely to affect non-metabolic drug clearance processes, such as renal and biliary 
excretion. Additionally, linaclotide is not expected to affect highly protein-bound drugs, as it does not 
circulate in the bloodstream to an appreciable extent. 
Based on the a.m. properties, the possibility of an altered absorption of other compounds due to an 
influence on the gut motility is assessed to be remote. In addition, and contrary to other medications 
altering gut motility, linaclotide influences colonic motility only, and has negligible influence on gastric 
and small bowel motility. Also, altered absorption is anticipated to be associated to the occurrence of 
prolonged or severe diarrhoea only. The applicant has, however, included appropriate warning 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 29/133
 
 
 
 
statements into the SmPC for these cases. A relevant interaction potential is therefore not expected 
with the compound. 
A clinically relevant interaction with the concomitant intake of a high-fat meal has been found in the 
food interaction study MCP-103-103, with the meal exerting exaggerated pharmacodynamic effects. 
The mechanism of this interaction is unclear. Importantly, the treatment recommendation as given in 
the SmPC has also been applied throughout the later development stages in patients, and found to be 
sufficiently safe. 
Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials 
The company has conducted several in-vitro studies, using human biomaterials, for which the following 
table gives an overview: 
Table 5: In-vitro studies using human biomaterial – overview: 
Study Description and 
Test System 
Report Study Number 
Test Article 
Concentration 
(µg/ml)  
ABSORPTION 
Summary of Results 
Assessment of the ability 
of linaclotide to permeate 
intestinal epithelial cells 
[PRD-RPT-EXP-00031]  
Caco-2 cells 
Linaclotide:  
0.24, 2.4, 24  
Linaclotide has a low permeability 
profile in Caco-2 cells. 
METABOLISM 
Linaclotide metabolism and 
degradation in the luminal 
contents of the human 
intestine 
Reconstituted 
intestinal fluid 
from human 
cadavers 
Linaclotide:  
100 
[MDP-103-041-IAR-01] 
Linaclotide stability in 
human intestinal 
microsomesb 
[MDP-103-056-IAR-02] 
Pooled mixed-
gender human 
intestinal 
microsomes 
The linaclotide metabolic/degradation 
pathway in humans is qualitatively the 
same as that in the rat, including 
formation of MM-419447 and 
proteolytic digestion of both active 
peptides. 
Linaclotide:  
12 
Linaclotide is not metabolized by 
human intestinal microsomes. 
Determination of the 
potential P-glycoprotein 
(P-gp) substrate or 
inhibitory activity of 
linaclotideb 
[MDP-103-057-IAR-01] 
DRUG-DRUG INTERACTION 
Caco-2 cells 
Linaclotide:  
0.12, 1.2, 12 
Linaclotide is not a substrate for the 
efflux transporter P-glycoprotein. 
Caco-2 cells 
Linaclotide:  
0.24, 2.4, 24 
Linaclotide is not an inhibitor of the 
efflux transporter P-glycoprotein. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 30/133
 
 
 
 
 
Study Description and 
Test System 
Report Study Number 
Assessment of the 
potential for linaclotide and 
MM-419447 to inhibit 
efflux and uptake 
transportersb 
[SOLVO-Almirall-03-
30Sep2010] 
Membrane 
vesicles from 
insect or 
mammalian 
cells over-
expressing 
specific human 
efflux 
transporters 
Test Article 
Concentration 
(µg/ml)  
Linaclotide: 
0.153, 1.53, 
15.3 
Summary of Results 
Linaclotide does not inhibit MRP2, 
MRP3, MRP4, or BCRP efflux 
transporters. 
MM-419447: 
0.136, 1.36, 
13.6 
Linaclotide: 
0.153, 1.53, 
15.3 
MM-419447: 
0.136, 1.36, 
13.6 
Membrane 
vesicles from 
insect or 
mammalian 
cells over-
expressing 
specific human 
uptake 
transporters 
Assessment of the human 
intestinal CYP450 inhibition 
potential of linaclotideb 
[MDP-103-066-IAR-01] 
Pooled mixed-
gender human 
intestinal 
microsomes 
Linaclotide: 
0.1625, 0.325, 
0.65, 1.3, 2.6, 
5.2 
Assessment of the human 
liver CYP450 inhibition 
potential of linaclotide and 
MM-419447b 
Pooled mixed-
gender human 
liver 
microsomes 
[AML/21] 
Assessment of the human 
liver CYP450 induction 
potential of linaclotide and 
MM-419447 b 
Fresh human 
hepatocytes 
from three 
donors 
[MDP-103-088-IAR-01] 
Linaclotide & 
MM-419447: 
0.00005, 
0.0005, 0.005, 
0.015, 0.05  
Linaclotide & 
MM-419447: 
0.25, 2.5, 50  
(CYP1A2 and 
2B6) 
0.25, 2.5, 50, 
625, 1250, 
5000 
(CYP3A4/5) 
MM-419447 does not inhibit MRP2, 
MRP3, or MRP4, and weakly inhibits 
(18%) BCRP at the highest tested 
concentration (13.6 µg/ml). 
Linaclotide does not inhibit OATP1B1, 
OATP1B3, PEPT1, or OCTN1 uptake 
transporters, and inhibits (55%) 
OATP2B1 at the highest tested 
concentration (15.3 µg/ml). 
MM-419447 does not inhibit OATP1B1, 
OATP1B3, OATP2B1, or OCTN1, and 
weakly inhibits (18%) PEPT1 at the 
highest tested concentration (13.6 
µg/ml). 
Linaclotide does not inhibit the 
common intestinal enzymes CYP2C9 
and CYP3A4. 
Linaclotide and MM-419447 do not 
inhibit CYP1A2, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 
2D6, 2E1, or 3A4 liver enzymes. 
Neither linaclotide nor MM-419447 
induces CYP1A2, 2B6, or 3A4/5 liver 
enzymes.  
Based on the in vitro studies it has been determined that – besides the degradation in the intestines – 
obviously also the low permeability in intestinal cells is responsible for the missing systemic 
availability. 
In order to elucidate the fate of the compound within the human body further, the company has 
conducted studies to measure the degradation of the compound in intestinal fluid, which resulted in the 
same pattern of degradation as in animals, starting with the reduction of disulfide bonds, and further 
proteolysis by unspecific peptidases. A single active metabolite, MM-419447 has been detected, with 
similar pharmacodynamic properties, being a 13-amino-acid peptide. All other cleavage products 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 31/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
investigated are pharmacologically inactive, and finally are undergoing proteolytic degradation to 
individual amino acids in intestinal fluids. 
The in-vitro Study PRD-RPT-EXP-00031 using Caco-2 cells indicate that linaclotide has a low 
permeability coefficient and is minimally absorbed across the intestinal epithelial layer.  
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
The PD of orally administered linaclotide were evaluated in healthy subjects and patients through 
bowel habit assessments of stool consistency (BSFS), straining (using the seven-point Ease of Passage 
Scale or a five-point straining scale), stool frequency, and stool weight. The BSFS score used to 
determine stool consistency enabled patients to classify the form or consistency of their stool into one 
of seven categories, ranging from hard (Type 1) to entirely liquid (Type 7), with Types 3-4 
representing the normal form [Heaton et al, 1991]. Because the form of the faeces largely depends on 
the time spent in the colon, measuring stool consistency using the BSFS is a surrogate for GI transit 
[Heaton et al, 1994]. Two different straining scales enabled patients to report the level of difficulty 
associated with defecation. During the Phase 1 and 2a clinical PD studies (MCP-103-001, MCP 103-002, 
and MCP-103-005), a seven-point Ease of Passage Scale was used (1 = manual disimpaction; 2 = 
enema needed; 3 = straining needed; 4 = normal; 5 = urgent without pain; 6 = urgent with pain; 7 = 
incontinent). For the PD food-effect study, MCP-103-103, a five-point ordinal straining scale (1 = not 
at all; 2 = a little bit; 3 = a moderate amount; 4 = a great deal; 5 = an extreme amount) that more 
closely captured symptoms of straining experienced by patients was used. The PD effects of linaclotide 
on GI function were determined in IBS-C patients by measuring the ascending colon emptying t½ 
value and the colonic geometric center at 24 hours relative to baseline (Study MCP-103-005). A 
summary of the Clinical Pharmacology studies is given in Table 6. 
Table 6: Summary of Clinical Pharmacology studies 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 32/133
 
 
 
 
 
Mechanism of action 
Linaclotide is a potent and selective agonist of the guanylate cyclase-C receptor, which is lining the 
luminal surface of the gastrointestinal tract. The compound is structurally related to the guanylin 
peptide family, which is involved in the regulation of intestinal fluid homeostasis and bowel function. 
GC-C responds to guanylin, uroguanylin, and ST, resulting in the elevation of intracellular cyclic 
guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), and an increase in chloride and bicarbonate secretion into the 
intestinal lumen through activation of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). 
This anion secretion results in an increase in intestinal fluid secretion and a reflex acceleration of 
gastrointestinal (GI) transit. Fluid absorption in the colon is also inhibited. The linaclotide’s chemical 
structure and effect is homologous to that of bacterial heat-stable enterotoxins (STs) contributing to 
global endemic diarrhoea [Bharucha & Waldman, 2010]. 
Furthermore activation of GC-C results in an extracellular increase in concentrations of cyclic guanosine 
monophosphate (cGMP). The increased extracellular cGMP is proposed to act on afferent nerves to 
decrease sensitivity to nociceptive stimuli thereby reducing abdominal pain, abdominal discomfort, and 
visceral hypersensitivity. 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Linaclotide’s PD studies in healthy subjects showed evidence of dose-response on stool softening. The 
effects of linaclotide on stool consistency (BSFS score) were observed following once-daily oral 
administration of linaclotide at dose levels of 29, 97, 290, and 966 μg, with the most profound effects 
noted following the administration of the 290 and 966 μg doses. The once-daily oral administration of 
97 μg or 966 μg of linaclotide softened stools (BSFS score), increased stool frequency, improved ease 
of passage, increased colonic transit, and decreased time to first bowel movement and colonic 
emptying time, with a dose response for stool consistency. In the phase IIa study MCP-103-005, 
linaclotide accelerated the emptying of the ascending colon and increased overall colonic transit, but 
had no effect on gastric emptying or small bowel transit. Significant linaclotide treatment effects were 
seen for multiple bowel habit parameters, including stool consistency, straining, stool frequency, and 
time to first bowel movement. 
The company has shown an effect of the compound on bowel movements and colonic transit time, 
properties appearing to be important in the treatment of constipation, and also in constipation 
predominant IBS. However, the company has not investigated the modulating effects on pain and/or 
pain perception in humans. This has been done in animals only, and there is a postulate derived from 
these animal studies, how pain modulation can be achieved by the compound (see above). Therefore, 
as such, the biological plausibility of these effects is not questioned, and by analysing the clinical data 
as regards the influence on pain and pain related parameters, and investigating the pain effects on 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 33/133
 
 
 
 
 
different grades of constipation, the applicant has proven the independence of the effect on pain and 
pain related symptoms to a satisfactory extent. It could also be shown with data from the scientific 
literature, that compounds with a sole “laxative action” do usually not achieve pain relief in IBS-C 
patients. The missing of an explicit pharmacodynamic study in humans as regards pain effects is 
considered overall acceptable. 
No clinical data on secondary pharmacology are available, apart from the evaluations of ECGs during 
phase 3. There are no effects on ECGs (see chapter on clinical safety). 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The extent of the clinical programme to investigate the pharmacology was limited in view of the low 
systemic availability of linaclotide. Due to the degradation of the product in the intestinal tract, and its 
low permeability across membranes, as proven from in-vitro and animal studies, it had been 
anticipated that the systemic availability of the product would be very low. This has been confirmed in 
the clinical part of the evaluations. Apart from the detection of minor amounts of the compound and its 
primary metabolite in a minority of healthy volunteers when treated with a 10-times higher than 
clinical dose, and apart from 2 of over 400 patients (with sparse PK sampling), no measurable plasma 
concentrations of the compound could be found. This made the further conduct of clinical 
pharmacology studies inadequate, and many of the properties of the compound could be elucidated 
from pre-clinical investigations only. The available data is considered sufficient to characterise the PK 
and PD to a satisfactory extent. 
A pharmacodynamically proven food interaction has been found with exaggerated PD action after 
intake of a high fat meal which might lead to an increased risk for adverse events in the clinical 
setting. The proposed mode of intake (for commercial use and in phase 3) takes account of this with 
the recommendation to take the (study) medication half an hour before the meals. No specific studies 
of the relation between linaclotide timing of administration in relationship with food intake and efficacy 
and safety have been performed. Importantly, the treatment recommendation as given in the SmPC 
has also been applied throughout the later development stages in patients, and found to be sufficiently 
safe. 
The compound – due to its influence on gastrointestinal motility – has a theoretical potential to 
influence (decrease) the absorption of other drugs, especially in the event of diarrhoea. Based on the 
PD property to influence colonic motility only, this potential might, however be small and thus 
adequate warning statements included into the product information was regarded to be satisfactory. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The clinical pharmacology programme, despite being limited in extent, is deemed appropriate to 
investigate the PD characteristics of linaclotide for the proposed indication taking into  consideration 
the almost complete missing of systemic availability, the specificity of the receptor interaction, and the 
nature of the compound as a protein. Relevant information in terms of the food effect as well as the 
potential impact on the absorption of other drugs have been adequately addressed in the SmPC. The 
overall PD development is therefore considered satisfactory. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 34/133
 
 
 
 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy  
2.5.1.  Dose response study 
Study MCP-103-202, named “A randomized, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose-range-
finding, parallel-design, phase 2 trial of oral linaclotide acetate administered to patients with Irritable 
Bowel Syndrome with Constipation” was conducted between March 2007 and February 2008 in 92 
study centres in the United States. The study duration was three months, with a 2-week post-
treatment observation phase. 
The patients were randomised into one of 5 groups with doses of 72, 145, 290, and 579 µg linaclotide 
and placebo. The primary efficacy endpoint was defined as the change in the weekly normalised CSBM 
rate during weeks 1 through 12 of the treatment period from the overall weekly normalised CSBM rate 
during the pre-treatment period. The secondary endpoints comprised further bowel movement (BM) 
related measurements, but also the evaluation of abdominal pain, and the overall Degree of Relief of 
IBS symptoms on a 7-point scale. 996 patients were included into the trial, of which 420 were finally 
randomised. For the safety population the treatment groups were generally balanced with respect to 
baseline demographics. The mean patients age was 44.4 years (range 18-72). Only 12 patients were 
older than 65 (ranging from 0 in the placebo group to 4 in the 290 µg-group). There were around 17% 
African American patients, and 7% Hispanic/Latino patients without relevant differences between the 
dose groups. 
The following table shows the primary analysis for efficacy: 
Table 3: Mean change from pre-treatment to treatment period in weekly normalised CSBM 
frequency (ITT population): 
Similar results (albeit with some weaker p-values) were seen in the secondary evaluations as regards 
stool form, and BM-related evaluation of responders. Highly statistically significant differences to 
placebo were seen for the evaluation of straining, and the IBS Degree of Relief response criterion. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 35/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.2.  Main study(ies)   
Study LIN-MD-31 
Study LIN-MD-31 was a phase III, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group trial of 
linaclotide, administered orally for 12 weeks followed by a 4-week randomised withdrawal period in 
patients with irritable bowel syndrome with constipation. The study was conducted at 111 study 
centres located in the United States, and 7 centres located in Canada. The study took place between 
14th July, 2009, and 12th July, 2010. 
Methods 
Study Participants  
The study was conducted in the USA and in Canada. The inclusion of the patient population was based 
on (slightly modified) Rome II criteria for IBS-C, which were partly already resembling the newly 
established Rome III criteria (as of 2006), resulting in an almost complete concordance of fulfilment of 
the Rome II and Rome III criteria in the included patient population. The included patient population is 
regarded to fully reflect a patient population suffering from IBS-C. 
Treatments 
Patients were receiving identically appearing capsules containing 290 µg linaclotide or placebo. By 
exclusion criteria, patients were requested not to change their exercise and dietary habits. Patients 
were instructed to take 1 capsule of the study drug in the morning at least 30 minutes before 
breakfast. The only “official” rescue medication was bisacodyl during the treatment. All other medicines 
taken by the patients for the treatment of IBS or constipation related symptoms had to be 
discontinued, however, the use of fibre, bulk laxatives, stool softeners, and probiotics was acceptable, 
provided the patient had been on a stable dose during the 30 days before screening. 
The following graph shows the overall course of the study including the randomised withdrawal period 
after the three months active treatment.  
Figure 7: Overview of trial design: 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 36/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
Objectives 
The objective of the trial is given as to determine the efficacy and safety of linaclotide administered to 
patients with IBS-C (superiority vs. placebo).  
Outcomes/endpoints 
In the original version of the protocol, three primary efficacy parameters were defined: 1. The 12-week 
abdominal pain and CSBM (“APC”) responder (defined as a 75% of the time responder), 2. the 12-
week CSBM responder (also a 75% responder), and 3. the 12-week abdominal pain responder (also 
defined as a 75% responder); all assessed on a weekly basis.  
In September 2009, the primary parameter was changed in the protocol amendment No. 2, now 
requesting 4 co-primary evaluations of efficacy, and referring to the following: 
1.)9/12 weeks APC 3+1 responder rate, 2) 9/12 weeks CSBM 3+1 response rate, 3) 9/12 weeks 
abdominal pain response rate, and 4) 6/12 week APC+1 responder rate, defined as follows: 
  A weekly APC 3+1 responder is defined as a patient who is both a weekly abdominal pain 
responder and a weekly CSBM 3+1 responder. 
  A weekly CSBM 3+1 responder is defined as a patient who has a CSBM weekly rate of at least 3 
and an increase of at least 1 from baseline for that week. If a patient did not complete at least 4 
daily IVRS calls the patient will not be considered a responder in that week. 
  A weekly abdominal pain responder is a patient who has a decrease of at least 30% in the mean 
abdominal pain score from baseline. Requirements for the completeness of the IVRS data similar to 
the above 
  A weekly APC+1 responder is a patient who is both a weekly abdominal pain responder and a 
weekly CSBM + 1 responder. A weekly CSBM + 1 responder is a patient who has an increase of at 
least 1 in the CSBM weekly rate. 
Protocol amendment No. 2 also defined a hierarchical structure for the statistical evaluation, defining 
the four co-primary endpoints as the first step, four of the secondary endpoints as the second step 
(CSBM frequency, SBM frequency, stool consistency, and severity of straining). The third step of 
evaluation was to test three secondary parameters, namely the change in abdominal pain, the change 
in abdominal discomfort, and the change in bloating.  Fourth and fifth steps were also introduced. The 
parameters tested in an individual step were all to be tested using an overall type I error rate of 0.05 
by means of a Hochberg procedure to control for multiple parameters within this step (see statistical 
evaluation). 
It also re-defined the complete list of secondary and tertiary endpoints. 
Protocol amendment No. 1 introduced differential primary endpoints to meet European requirements, 
and the evaluation of a per-protocol population, instead of an “evaluable” population. The co-primary 
efficacy parameters for the European submission were defined as follows: 
1.  A 12 week abdominal pain/abdominal discomfort responder is a patient who for at least 6 out of 12 
weeks of the treatment period has an improvement from baseline of 30% or more in either the 
mean abdominal pain score or mean abdominal discomfort score for that week with neither of 
these scores worsening from baseline for that week. If a patient does not have an abdominal pain 
score or an abdominal discomfort score for a particular treatment period week, the patient will not 
be considered a responder for that treatment period week. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 37/133
 
 
 
 
2.  A 12 week IBS Degree of relief responder is a patient whose response to the Degree of relief of IBS 
symptoms question is “considerably relieved “ or “completely relieved” (i.e. a score of ≤2) for at 
least 6 of the 12 weeks in the treatment period. If a patient does not have an IBS degree of relief 
score for that treatment period week, the patient will not be considered a responder for that 
treatment period week. 
The null-hypothesis for this “European analysis” was therefore set to “no difference in the proportion of 
12-week abdominal pain/discomfort responder or no difference in the proportion of the 12-week IBS 
degree of relief responder. 
The secondary endpoints as of the “European analysis amendment” in its first version (amendment No. 
1) referred back to the original study protocol. The following secondary endpoints were included in the 
original study protocol: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The change from baseline in the 12-week CSBM frequency 
The change from baseline in the 12-week SBM frequency 
The change from baseline in the 12 week stool consistency (using BSFS) 
The change from baseline in the 12 week severity of straining (using a 5-point ordinal scale) 
The change from baseline in the 12-week percent of abdominal pain-free days. 
The change from baseline in the 12-week abdominal pain and discomfort scales (evaluated 
separately using an 11-point NRS). 
 
The change from baseline in the 12-week bloating (assessed using also an 11-point NRS). 
From these, protocol amendment No.2 (the “European” part of this amendment) defined “main 
secondary parameters” and “supportive secondary parameters” as follows: 
The main parameters: 
 
 
 
 
The change from baseline in the 12-week CSBM frequency 
The change from baseline in the 12 week stool consistency (using BSFS) 
The change from baseline in the 12 week severity of straining 
The change from baseline in the 12-week bloating 
The “supportive” parameters: 
The change in SBM frequency, the change in the abdominal pain score, the change in percent of 
abdominal pain-free days, the change in the abdominal discomfort scale, the change in the EQ-5D 
VAS, the change in the EQ-5D utility index score, and the change in the IBS-QOL (evaluations of 
Quality of Life, see below). 
Tertiary endpoints were defined as follows (as of the original protocol):  
A 12-week longitudinal analysis of primary efficacy 75% weekly responder parameters, a 12-week 
75% responder analysis for the following parameters: improvement of ≥30% for abdominal discomfort 
(on 11-point NRS), the same for bloating, ≥1 improvement in CSBM frequency, ≥2 improvement in 
SBM frequency, ≥1 improvement in severity of straining (on a 5-point scale), ≥2 improvement in stool 
consistency (on a 7-point scale), a CSBM responder based on having a weekly of 3 or more CSBMs. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 38/133
 
 
 
 
The following mean changes of parameters were also included in the tertiary endpoints: The change 
from baseline in abdominal cramping, the change from baseline in abdominal fullness. Further analysis 
were to include CSBM and SBM within 24 hours of receiving study drug responders, 12-week ABC 
(abdominal pain, bloating, and constipation responder, weekly abdominal pain/bloating responder, 
weekly constipation responder; evaluation of no. of unsuccessful BMS, change from baseline in IBS 
symptoms severity, constipation severity, degree of relief of IBS symptoms, evaluation of “monthly” 
responders, “adequate relief”, evaluation of rescue medication, evaluation of IBS-SSS, treatment 
satisfaction, Quality of Life (IBS-QOL, SF-12, EQ-5D, and pharmacoeconomic evaluations (WPAI:IBS-C, 
HRUQ). 
Further analyses are mentioned for the randomised withdrawal period, which are however, defined as 
descriptive only. For this period, three treatment sequences, are of course defined: 290µg/290µg, 290 
µg/placebo, and placebo/290 µg. Most primary, and a couple of secondary, but not all secondary and 
tertiary parameters were to be evaluated. 
Additional Efficacy Parameters have been included with protocol amendment No. 2 as follows: 
  12-week abdominal pain/abdominal discomfort sustained responder, and 
  12-week degree of relief sustained responder 
defining sustained responders on the basis of the primary endpoints with the additional requirement of 
being a responder in at least 2 of the 4 weeks before ending the trial (or before discontinuing the trial, 
whatever is applicable). 
Further analyses were done on a subgroup of 65 linaclotide and 72 placebo patients with the conduct 
of the triplicate ECG programme, and blood draws for PK analysis, conducted at visit 3 (randomisation 
visit), approximately 2 hours after first dose of study medication was taken, and at the week 4 visit. 
Justification and validation of endpoints: 
For the IBS Global Relief of Responder, it is directly referred to the European guidance document on 
IBS. The threshold of “Considerably” or “Completely Relieved” (i.e. a score of ≤ 2) was selected based 
on the recommendations of the IMMPACT Consensus Statement, in which the CID of the Patient Global 
Impression of Change (PGIC) scale (7-point scale with the options “very much improved”, “much 
improved”, “minimally improved”, “no change”, “minimally worse”, “much worse”, “very much worse”) 
was established as “much” and “very much” improved. The same PGIC responder definition has been 
used as an anchor in determining the clinical importance of improvement in the pain NRS, and in the 
validation of the Global Improvement Scale (GIS) for IBS, symptoms according to a study by Gordon 
et al (published in 2003). Furthermore, this scale was used in the Phase 2b MCP-103-202 and showed 
construct validity, discriminating ability, and responsiveness in the IBS-C population. 
For the use of the abdominal pain/discomfort endpoint, it is argued that the threshold of 30% 
improvement from baseline as a minimal clinically important difference (CID) for pain was chosen 
based on several publications. Specifically, a meta-analysis of 10 clinical trials in various chronic pain 
conditions using an 11-point NRS demonstrated that 30% reduction of the NRS represented a CID. The 
IMMPACT  Consensus Statement concluded that a 10-20% represents a minimally important 
improvement, and a 30% a moderately important improvement. Finally, a recent publication on the 
validation of the pain NRS in IBS, the minimal CID was found to be 29, 5% 3. 
3 Spiegel B et al: Measuring IBS patient reported outcomes with an abdominal pain numeric rating scale: results from the 
proof cohort. Aliment Pharmacol Ther 2009; 20: 1159-1170. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 39/133
 
 
 
 
                                              
 
Furthermore, the analysis of the Phase 2b study data showed that a responder definition based on a 
30% reduction from baseline in abdominal pain and abdominal discomfort for 50% of the weeks yields 
the highest degree of diagnostic accuracy based on IBS degree of relief used as an anchor. 
Information was provided on the validation of 12 PRO instruments used in the phase 2b trial. The 
items assessed were straining, UBM frequency, SBM frequency, CSBM frequency, abdominal pain, 
abdominal discomfort (however, with the 5-point scale used in the phase 2b study), bloating, adequate 
relief, global relief, IBS symptom severity, constipation severity, and BSFS. The items were assessed 
as regards test-retest reliability, validity (construct validity and discriminating ability), responsiveness 
and for the definition of a minimally important difference (MID). All tests revealed satisfactory results 
for the items included. The MID was determined with three different methods: an “anchor based 
method” in which the global relief was used as the “anchor”, the SEM “method”, and the 0.5 SD unit 
change. This analysis, however, was considered to be “explorative” only. However, the results of this 
evaluation is given in the following table, to enable a comparison with the results achieved in the phase 
3 trials: 
Table 14: IBS-C item MID estimates at week 1: 
The CHMP notes that as regards the IBS Degree of Relief response criterion, obviously no specific 
validation data appear to be available, however, some have obviously been generated based on the 
phase 2 data. Also, the outcome measure is indeed in agreement with the requirements as given in the 
European guidance, and therefore considered to be overall acceptable.  
The use of the NRS-scales is relatively new in the IBS setting, and the use of a 30% threshold is 
obviously not only partially validated (as in the Spiegel publication given above), but has also been 
advocated by the (preliminary) IBS guideline of the FDA. It is clear that for somatic and visceral pain, 
a MCID has previously been accepted to be at 30% (or even less), however, the data presented in the 
study by Spiegel are the only data that do indeed present the evaluation of a MCID in abdominal pain 
in IBS patients. The argumentation of the company is therefore overall considered to be acceptable. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 40/133
 
 
 
 
 
The above shown MCID definitions were used to assess the clinical relevance of the results. 
Sample size 
The sample size was calculated to be 800 patients (400 in each treatment arm), which were to provide 
an overall power of at least 95% to detect a difference of 15% in the percentage of patients being 
abdominal pain/discomfort responders (45% vs. 60%) and in the percentage of patients being IBS 
degree of relief responder (21% vs 36%) with a two-sided alpha of 0.05. 
Randomisation 
Randomisation took place at visit 3 (after the pre-treatment period). At this time the investigational 
site called the Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS, provided by the CRO ICON Clinical Research, 
Sugar Land, Texas, USA) to register the patient for pre-randomisation transition. After that, the patient 
called IVRS to enter the diary responses, which were then used to verify the inclusion and exclusion 
criteria and confirming eligibility. After checking for consistency with the investigational site, the IVRS 
randomised the patients. The randomisation list was generated by the Sponsor (Forest Research 
Institute Inc.). Patients were randomised in a 1:1 ratio with block randomisation consisting of blocks of 
4 in order to ensure balanced distribution. At the end-of-treatment (ETP) visit, patients not 
withdrawing were assigned in a double-blind fashion for the randomised withdrawal (RW) period. 
Patients on linaclotide 290 µg were randomised to continue linaclotide or switch to matching placebo, 
while patient on placebo were allocated to linaclotide 290 µg. 
Blinding (masking) 
The randomization codes were generated by the Randomization Code Administrator, an individual 
within Statistical Programming at Forest Research Institute, Inc., who generated the randomization 
codes and was not assigned the role of Statistical Programmer for this study. The randomization codes 
were provided on a compact disc to the IVRS contract research organization (ICON Clinical Research) 
by the Forest Research Institute, Inc., Randomization Code Administrator; the codes were password 
protected. The kit randomization schedule was created by the IVRS contract research organization. 
For the double-blind treatment period, patients were supplied with identically appearing capsules 
containing 266 μg linaclotide, or placebo. 
Statistical methods 
In order to fulfil different requirements of EMA and FDA, different statistical analysis plans (SAP) with 
different primary/secondary endpoints were applied for the EU and the US application. The following 
description of statistical methods is based on the European SAPs only. 
The double-blind, placebo-controlled study LN-MD-31 had the co-primary endpoints “12-week 
abdominal pain/discomfort response” and “12 week IBS degree of relief response”. The responders 
were determined according to pre-specified criteria. Statistically significant changes versus placebo 
were required in both primary efficacy parameters for the trial to have met the primary efficacy 
objective.  
All efficacy analyses were based on the ITT Population. The PP Population was used as a sensitivity 
analysis. The ITT population was defined as all patients in the Safety Population who had at least 1 
post randomization entry of the US primary efficacy assessment (ie, an assessment of Abdominal Pain 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 41/133
 
 
 
 
at Its Worst or the daily IVRS information that determines whether a spontaneous bowel movement 
(SBM) is a complete spontaneous bowel movement (CSBM). 
The PP population was defined as a subset of ITT population constituted by those patients who: (a) 
met all inclusion/exclusion criteria liable to affect the efficacy assessment and (b) did not present 
serious deviations of the protocol that may affect efficacy. 
For both co-primary efficacy parameters, the proportion of responders in the linaclotide and placebo 
groups was compared using the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel (CMH) test controlling for geographical 
region. The number and percentage of responders for each treatment group, the difference in 
responder rates between the treatment groups, the odds ratio based on the CMH-method with 
corresponding confidence intervals, and the two-sided p-value associated with the CMH test are 
presented.  
Continuous secondary endpoints were analysed using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) models with 
fixed effect terms for treatment group and geographical region and the patient’s corresponding 
baseline value of the parameter as a covariate.  
The analyses of the primary and secondary efficacy parameters were based on the ITT population. It 
was distinguished between main, supportive and additional secondary efficacy endpoints. The overall 
type I family-wise error rate for the co-primary and main secondary efficacy endpoints was controlled 
at the 0.05 significance level using a 2-step serial gatekeeping procedure. In each step, a set of 
hypotheses was tested; progression to the next step occurred only if all hypotheses in the previous 
step were rejected. Within each step, the type I error was controlled at the 0.05 level: In the first step, 
statistical significance was needed for both co-primary endpoints; the type I error rates in the 
subsequent step(s) were controlled using the Hochberg procedure. The supportive and additional 
secondary endpoints were explored without control of the type I error rate, statistical tests being 
meant to be considered descriptively. 
An observed-cases approach to missing data was applied. Missing values were not imputed. If the 
value for a primary endpoint was missing for a treatment period week, the patient was considered a 
non-responder for that week; for weekly responder parameters based on IVRS daily assessments, a 
patient with less than 4 complete IVRS calls during a treatment week was not considered a responder 
for that week. As sensitivity analyses, for parameters that were defined on a weekly basis, a last 
observation carried forward (LOCF) approach was also applied, imputing the last non-missing weekly 
value. The protocol allowed for rescue medication but data were included in the analysis irrespective of 
rescue medication usage. 
Further analyses that can be considered as sensitivity analyses were provided for the abdominal 
pain/discomfort response and IBS degree of relief response for the 12 week treatment period. The 
primary endpoint “abdominal pain/discomfort response” was analyzed using alternate responder 
definitions for weekly response (≥40% and ≥50% improvement from baseline instead of ≥30%). A 
longitudinal analysis was provided for abdominal pain/abdominal discomfort weekly response and the 
IBS degree of relief weekly response utilizing a generalized linear model using the logit as link function 
and the exchangeable log odds ratio structure, based on the observed cases during the treatment 
period. The models used treatment group, region, week, week by treatment interaction as factors. An 
analysis of sustained responders was also provided, which defined sustained responders as those 
responders who were weekly responders in 2 of the 4 last weeks before the ending of the treatment 
period or discontinuing the trial. 
Centre effects were not explored due to the small number of patients per centre. The primary analysis 
was stratified by geographical region. The consistency of the treatment effect for the primary 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 42/133
 
 
 
 
endpoints was explored on the pooled ITT-population of the pivotal studies by pre-specified subgroup 
analyses by age and gender and in additional post-hoc subgroup analyses by race, ethnicity, and BMI.  
The 12 week treatment period was followed by a 4 week randomized withdrawal period. For this 
period, descriptive statistics only were provided; no statistical tests were performed.  
Results 
Participant flow 
Overall, 80.6% of the patients completed the double-blind treatment period of the study. The number 
of discontinuations from the active treatment group was higher than for placebo (23.2% vs. 15.6%, 
which is reflecting the higher percentage of patients discontinuing as a results of AEs (7.9% vs. 2.5%; 
p=0.0007). The results are shown in the following graphical presentation: 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 43/133
 
 
 
 
l
n
e
m
o
r
n
E
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
l
l
o
F
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
Figure 8: Number of patients in study LIN-MD-31 
Assessed for Eligibility 
(n=2424)  
466 
Excluded  
Not meeting Incl.criteria   332 
Adverse event:    
Protocol violation  
Withdrawal of consent 
Lost to follow-up   
Other reasons (n=…) 
1 
2 
69 
31 
31 
Excluded  
1155 
Not meeting Incl. criteria  1006 
Adverse event 
Protocol violation  
Withdrawal of consent  
Lost to follow-up   
Other reasons  
1 
6 
81 
34 
27 
Assessed for Eligibility after pre-treatment phase: 1958 
Randomised 803 
Placebo 
Linaclotide 290 µg 
Allocated to intervention    
Did not receive Allocated intervention; 
give reasons  
1 
397 
Allocated to intervention    
Did not receive Allocated intervention; 
give reasons 
0 
406 
- Premature discontinuation: 
w
o
Adverse event 
Protocol violation  
withdrawal of consent  
Lost to follow-up   
Insufficient ther. resp. 
Other  
62 
10 
9 
25 
10 
4 
4 
Premature discontinuation: 
Adverse event 
Protocol violation  
withdrawal of consent  
Lost to follow-up   
Insufficient ther. resp. 
Other  
94 
32 
10 
25 
17 
5 
5 
Analysed (ITT): 
Excluded from analysis 
Reason: Missing postrandomisation 
entry for primary efficacy parameters 1 
395 
Analysed (ITT): 
Excluded from analysis 
Reason: Missing postrandomisation 
entry for primary efficacy parameters: 1 
405 
Analysed PP: 
Reasons for exclusion: 
Not meet incl./meet excl. criteria  11 
Received incorrect dose: 
Forbidden concomitt. treatm. 
3 
58 
348 
378 
Analysed PP 
Reasons for exclusion: 
Not meet incl./meet excl. criteria  17 
Received incorrect dose: 
forbidden concomit. treatm. 
3 
30 
Included in RW period: 
335 
Included in RW period: 
312 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 44/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Originally, 805 patient identification numbers (PID) were handed out, and the reduction by two 
patients is attributed to a randomisation of two patients at more than one study centre (additionally 
one of these two was taking part in the screening period a third time). For these 2 patients, the fact 
was detected prior to breaking the blind, and the procedures to handle these two patients were 
included in the SAP amendment. It was determined that the data from the two patients would be 
included under their first randomised PID and that the data of the other PIDs would not be included in 
the efficacy and safety analyses but included in the data listings. 
After data lock point, and after finalisation of the study report, it was detected that an additional 9 
patients had been already included in other linaclotide studies before inclusion into this study. This is 
presented as an Addendum to the Clinical Study Report.  
Recruitment 
The study was running between 14th July 2009 (first patient included), and 12th July, 2010, a total of 
about 13 months. 
Conduct of the study 
During the conduct of the study 2 protocol amendments were made (see above “Outcomes / 
Endpoints”). As these mainly referred to the (statistical) analysis of the trial, the conduct of the study 
as such was not affected. All endpoints included in the European evaluation (including the statistical 
analysis plan) were already included in the first version of the protocol. It is considered that the 
protocol amendments had no influence on the conduct of the study. 
Baseline data 
The demographic data of the included patient population is shown in the following table. Overall 90.5% 
of the patients were female, and about 75% of the patients were Caucasian. No meaningful differences 
were seen between the groups, however, mean weight was higher in the linaclotide group. 
Table 16: Demographic and baseline characteristics (Safety population) 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 45/133
 
 
 
 
The concomitant disease conditions by the patients (in 96% of the patients) comprised most commonly 
haemorrhoids (27%), gastroesophageal reflux (22%), drug hypersensitivity (20%), insomnia (18%), 
headache 17%), seasonal allergy (17%), hypertension (17%), depression (17%), and anxiety (16%). 
A total of 13.8% of the female patients were postmenopausal, and 25% had undergone hysterectomy. 
The “efficacy baseline variables” are shown in the following table: 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 46/133
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17: Efficacy Variables at baseline – ITT population 
The evaluation of concomitant medication at baseline did not reveal obvious differences between the 
groups. Altogether, 88% of the patients used concomitant medication. The highest used was seen for 
propionic acid derivatives (usually NSAIDs; 21%), anilides (21%), multivitamins (18%), PPIs (15%), 
progestogens and estrogens, fixed combinations (14%), SSRIs (10%), and other antidepressants 
(10%). 
Numbers analysed 
The numbers analysed are given above (participant flow). The ITT population comprised 395 and 405, 
and the PP population 378 and 348 patients in the placebo and linaclotide groups, respectively. 
Outcomes and estimation 
As reported above, the study report includes an evaluation based on the EU SAP, and an evaluation 
based on the US SAP. For the purpose of this AR, the “European results” are mainly reported. 
The evaluation of the primary and main secondary parameters for EU as defined in the protocol and 
European SAP-  are shown in the following table. All comparisons turned out to be statistically 
significant: 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 47/133
 
 
 
 
 
Table 18: Overview of primary and main secondary efficacy parameters for the 12 week 
treatment period (ITT population): 
A supportive evaluation (sensitivity analysis) of the primary endpoints is presented with additional 
analyses applying the LOCF approach to the ITT population, and with the PP-population (applying the 
OC approach): 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 48/133
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19: EU additional analyses: Primary efficacy parameters LOCF (ITT) and PP 
populations (OC) 
The following two graphs show the display of the longitudinal analysis of the two co-primary endpoints. 
This shows that the effect of linaclotide was already significant in the first week of treatment, and 
stayed significant throughout the treatment period. 
Figures 9 and 10: Longitudinal analysis of European co-primary endpoints up to 12 weeks – 
OC approach/ITT population (left panel: abdominal pain/discomfort responder; right panel: 
IBS degree of relief responder). 
Results of a variety of supportive secondary endpoints are shown in the following table. All results 
showed highly statistically significant differences. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 49/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 20: Supportive secondary endpoints (EU evaluation; ITT population). 
Variable 
placebo 
linaclotide 
LSMD (95% CI) 
12-week SBM 
Baseline 
frequency 
End of treatment 
Difference 
12-week 
Baseline 
abdominal pain 
End of treatment 
Difference 
12-week abd. pain 
Baseline 
free days 
End of treatment 
Difference 
12 week abd. 
Baseline 
discomfort 
End of treatment 
1.897 
3.174 
1.130 
5.63 
4.38 
-1.13 
1.69 
6.99 
5.31 
6.04 
4.72 
p-value 
2.769 
(2.32 – 3.22) 
<0.0001 
-0.74 
(-0.98 - -0.50) 
<0.0001 
- 0.74 
(-0.099 - -0.494) 
0.00014 
-0.74 
(-0.99 - -0.49) 
1.935 
5.977 
3.898 
5.66 
3.65 
-1.87 
2.06 
11.88 
9.81 
6.17 
4.07 
Difference 
-1.21 
-1.95 
<0.0001 
Especially for the EU analysis, the analysis of sustained response was conducted, defining a sustained 
response as an overall 50% response with an additional 50% response during the last 4 weeks thus 
excluding a deterioration towards the end of treatment. These analyses are shown the following table: 
Table 21: Analyses of sustained response for abdominal pain/discomfort response and for 
IBS degree of relief response (ITT population): 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 50/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A “sensitivity analysis” was conducted with the evaluation of the abdominal pain/discomfort primary 
endpoint defined at different levels of response. The responder for the co-primary was defined as a 
patient with an at least 30% improvement in the NRS ratings. The additional evaluations set this 
increase to 40% and 50%. Almost similar rates were achieved with these evaluations, and all 
differences were statistically significant. 
Table 22: 12-week abdominal pain/abdominal discomfort 40% and 50% responders – ITT 
population 
Similar results were achieved, if these evaluations were restricted to abdominal pain only (without 
integrating the discomfort evaluations). 
Evaluation of Quality of Life 
The evaluation of the 12-week VAS of EQ-5D questionnaire (using the LOCF approach; ITT population) 
revealed a mean increase from baseline (using a 100 point NRS) of 5.56 points for linaclotide, and 
3.75 for placebo. This difference was not statistically significant (p=0.0637). However, when using the 
EQ-5D Utility Index Score, the change from baseline in the linaclotide group was significantly greater 
(p-value 0.001) than in the placebo group. The partly discrepant results of this part of the QoL-
evaluations are seen in the following table, which shows the change from baseline for each dimension 
of the EQ-5D Questionnaire: 
Table 24: Change from baseline in 12-week responses for each dimension of the EQ-5D 
Questionnaire – ITT population 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 51/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The IBS-QOL evaluation, which is based on a 0- to 100 VAS, with higher scores indicating better 
Quality of Life is also presented. Almost all results for this QoL instrument (including the overall 
evaluation) revealed statistically significant advantages for the active treatment. The results are shown 
in the following table: 
Table 25: Change from baseline in IBS-QOL parameters at end of treatment period. 
The assessment of Quality of Life via the generic SF-12 health survey scores revealed that the health 
status of the trial population was similar to averages reported for IBS-C patients in the literature. 
There was a small increase in health status in both placebo and linaclotide treatment groups at the end 
of the treatment period which was statistically significant. 
Small changes with missing statistical significance were seen for the evaluation of work productivity, 
and health resource use evaluations. 
The CHMP raised questions around the inclusion of a population without relevant reductions of Quality 
of Life. In their response the applicant could clearly display that the included patient population did 
indeed suffer from a clearly reduced Quality of Life. The overall results were not only consistent with 
an overall reduction of Quality of Life compared to the normal population, but also were compliant with 
the results of investigations in similar populations reported in the literature, in two out of three QoL 
parameters for which a comparison was possible. The issue was therefore considered resolved. 
The missing effect in the HCRU questionnaire is – from a regulatory point of view – not considered to 
be a concern, and may indeed be attributable to the need for a different design in such kind of studies. 
It could also, however, be attributable to the missing sensitivity of the instrument used, as the 
baseline data indicated minimal health care resource utilisation (looking at the categories in the scales, 
these appear indeed to measure more “severe” forms of health care utilisation such as emergency 
visits, hospitalisation etc.). 
Ancillary analyses 
The evaluation of the primary endpoints according to the US SAP is shown in the following table. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 52/133
 
 
 
 
 
Table 23: Overview of primary efficacy parameters for the 12-week treatment period – ITT 
population 
The secondary efficacy parameters for the “US evaluation” have all already been reported in the above, 
partly also being secondary, partly being additional/tertiary endpoints only. 
An evaluation was provided looking for the incremental levels of CSBM rate and abdominal pain. The 
two parameters “Level of improvement of CSBM rate” and “Level of decrease of abdominal pain” are 
presented in graphical form: 
Figure 11: Percentage of patients with improvement in 12-week CSBM rate by level of 
improvement – ITT population 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 53/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 12: Percentage of patients with decreases in 12-week abdominal pain by level of 
decrease – ITT population. 
Further endpoints not included in the special European section of evaluation comprise the following: 
the severity of straining, the 6/12 week CSBM+1 responders, the 6/12 weeks abdominal pain (without 
discomfort) responder, and a list of 20 “additional efficacy responder” analysis. The results are shown 
in the following tables: 
Table 26: Efficacy results for endpoints not presented in the EU evaluation: 
Variable 
placebo 
linaclotide 
LSMD (95% CI) or 
Baseline 
End of treatment 
Difference 
3.449 
2.779 
-0.651 
odds ratio(95%CI) 
p-value 
-0.655 
(-0.763 -  -0.546) 
3.579 
2.164 
-1.306 
<0.0001 
Responder 
117 (29.6%) 
197 (48.6%) 
2.28 (1.70; 3.06) 
Non-responder 
278 (70.4%) 
208 (51.4%) 
<0.0001 
Severity of 
straining 
6/12 week 
CSBM+1 
responder 
6/12 weeks 
Baseline 
148 (37.5%) 
203 (50.1%) 
1.69 (1.27; 2.24) 
abdominal pain 
responder 
End of treatment 
247 (62.5%) 
202 (49.9%) 
0.0003 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 54/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 27: Efficacy results of the “additional efficacy responders” according to FDA 
evaluation: 
Also evaluated was the response regarding BMs (SBM and CSBM) within the first 24 hours after 
treatment, which was statistically significantly different between the two treatment groups 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 55/133
 
 
 
 
 
(p<0.0001). The percent changes from baseline in abdominal pain, abdominal discomfort, and bloating 
are shown in the following table, which also includes a separate evaluation of the subgroups with 
relatively high discomfort and bloating scores (≥3) at baseline. This indeed shows that the net effect is 
slightly greater with the higher baseline score population: 
Table28: Percent changes from baseline in 12-week abdominal pain, abdominal discomfort, 
and bloating – ITT population. 
Also of interest appears to be the evaluation of changes in other abdominal symptoms that are not 
considered to be specific for IBS-C. These are shown in the following table: 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 56/133
 
 
 
 
 
Table 29: Changes from baseline in 12-week assessments of other abdominal and bowel 
symptoms – ITT population. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 57/133
 
 
 
 
 
The relief of IBS symptoms was not only assessed by the way described for the European primary 
endpoint, but also using defining a responder as a patient with “somewhat relief, “considerable relief”, 
or complete relief” for 100% of the weekly scores, or with considerable or complete relief for at least 
50% of the weekly scores. A 12-week monthly IBS-C responder was defined as a patient who was 
somewhat, considerably or completely relieved for all 4 weeks, or considerably or completely relieved 
for at least 2 weeks of a month and had not response indicating any worsening (score of 5, 6, or 7), no 
increase in rescue medicine use, and did not discontinue from the study due to lack of efficacy. 
“Adequate relief” was assessed on the basis of the yes/no answer to the question “Overall, have you 
had adequate relief from your IBS symptoms during the past 7 days”. The results of these evaluations 
are shown in the following table 
Table 30: Relief of IBS symptoms responders – ITT population 
The intake of rescue medication was also evaluated. At baseline, the median percentage of days of 
medication used was 7.69 in both treatment groups. The least squares mean change from baseline in 
the percentage of days during the treatment period during which rescue medication was reported to be 
used was 2.6% for placebo, and – 7.2’% for linaclotide. The percentage of patients who reported an 
increase from baseline in the number of days with recue medication use was 29.4% for placebo, and 
17.3% for linaclotide. Both associated p-values were <0.00001. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 58/133
 
 
 
 
 
The IBS-SSS (Irritable Bowel Severity Scoring System), a partially validated outcome measure 
developed for use in IBS was also evaluated. The IBS-SSS comprises 5 symptoms which are all rated 
on a 0-100 VAS. The results are shown in the following table: 
Table 31: Changes from baseline to end of treatment period in IBS-SSS – ITT population: 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 59/133
 
 
 
 
 
The Summary of patient satisfaction with treatment and question on likelihood on treatment 
continuation assessment are also reported (both evaluated based on a 5-point scale) both resulted in 
highly statistically significant advantages for the active treatment. 
The CHMP notes that the additional analyses presented above do support the overall robustness of the 
results. This not only can be concluded for the type of endpoints, but – when considering the PP-
evaluations and comparison of LOCF and OC analyses– also for the type of evaluation.  
Randomised withdrawal period: 
At the end of treatment, the patients in the RW population who were treated with placebo had a less 
robust response to treatment compared with the patients treated with linaclotide. This was true for 
both bowel habits and abdominal symptoms. However, after the placebo patients were treated with 
linaclotide during this period, there was a clear improvement in all of these parameters approaching 
the improvement attained by the linaclotide patients at the end of the 12-week period. In contrast 
patients who were treated with linaclotide during the 12-week period, and then re-randomised to 
placebo in the RW period had a decrease in the improvements attained over the course of linaclotide 
treatment. There was clearly no evidence of a rebound effect after linaclotide withdrawal. The response 
to linaclotide was overall maintained when linaclotide treatment was prolonged during the RW period. 
The next table shows these results for a variety of “numerical” endpoints: 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 60/133
 
 
 
 
Table 32: Overview of efficacy parameters during the combined treatment and randomised 
withdrawal period (comparison to baseline values) – RW population:  
The evaluation of rescue medication confirmed these results: When patients were switched from 
placebo to active there was a decrease in the use of recue medications. In contrast, patients who were 
switched from linaclotide to placebo had an increase of rescue medication use, while the patients 
remaining on linaclotide had no meaningful change. 
The evaluation of the IBS-SSS and the evaluation of treatment satisfaction and continuation results 
confirmed these findings. 
The “EU primary efficacy parameters” were also evaluated during the RW period, and the results of this 
evaluation are presented in the following table. The results as above are confirmed for the abdominal 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 61/133
 
 
 
 
 
pain/discomfort responder evaluation, but not for the IBS Degree of Relief evaluation, which saw a 
decrease in response rates in all groups. According to the study report, this is attributable to missing 
data. Allegedly many patients attended the end of study visit before last IVRS call. 
Table 33: Abdominal pain/discomfort and IBS Degree of Relief responders at end of 12-
week treatment and end of RW period 
The separate evaluation of abdominal pain, abdominal discomfort and IBS Degree of Relief scores is 
shown in the following table: 
Table 34: Abdominal pain and abdominal discomfort and IBS Degree of Relief at end of 12-
week treatment and end of study – ITT population 
As an example for the graphical evaluations of the RW period, the evaluation of the IBS Degree of 
Relief average score is shown, based on the RW population only. Similar results (graphical displays) 
are shown for the other parameters. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 62/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 13: Change from baseline in the IBS Degree of relief weekly average score up to 16 
weeks (OC) – RW population 
Study MCP-103-302 
Study MCP-103-302 was a phase 3, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group trial 
of linaclotide administered orally for 26 weeks in patients with Irritable Bowel Syndrome with 
Constipation. The study was conducted between 02nd July, 2009, and 03rd September, 2010 at 111 
trial centres (of which 102 indeed randomised patients) in the United States. 
Methods 
Study Participants  
The study was conducted in the USA and in Canada. The inclusion of the patient population was based 
on (slightly modified) Rome II criteria for IBS-C, which were partly already resembling the newly 
established Rome III criteria (as of 2006), resulting in an almost complete concordance of fulfilment of 
the Rome II and Rome III criteria in the included patient population. The included patient population is 
regarded to fully reflect a patient population suffering from IBS-C. 
Treatments 
The treatments were similar as in study LIN-MD-31 
The overall design is similar to study LIN-MD-31 except for the randomised withdrawal period, and 
with the treatment duration being 6 months, instead of 3. The design is shown in the following graph: 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 63/133
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 14: Illustration of trial design for study MCP-103-302: 
Objectives 
The objective(s) of the trial is defined similarly as in study LIN-MD-31. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The endpoints were also similarly defined as in study LIN-MD-31, however, with the additions following 
the longer treatment duration. The following endpoints, almost similar to LIN-MD-31 were relevant for 
this study: 
  EU primary endpoints: 
o  12-week 6/12 abdominal pain/abdominal discomfort responder 
o  12-week 6/12 IBS Degree of Relief Responder. 
  US primary endpoints:  
o  9/12 week abdominal pain and CSBM (APC) 3+1 responder,  
o  9/12 week CSBM 3+1 responder 
o  9/12 week abdominal pain responder 
o  6/112 week APC+1 responder 
  US secondary endpoints: 
o  Change from baseline in the 12-week CSBM frequency 
o  Change from baseline in the 12-week SBM frequency 
o  Change from baseline in the 12 week stool consistency 
o  Change from baseline in the 12-week severity of straining 
o  Change from baseline in the 12-week abdominal pain 
o  Change from baseline in the 12-week abdominal discomfort 
o  Change from baseline in the 12-week bloating 
o  6/12 week CSBM+1 responder 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 64/133
 
 
 
 
 
o  6/12 week abdominal pain responder 
o  Change from baseline in 12-week percent of abdominal pain-free days. 
For the EU, the secondary endpoints were defined almost similar, with the exception of the two 6/12 
week responder analyses, which were not included as secondary endpoints. In addition to the US-
defined secondary endpoints, the following were added: 
o  26-week (13/26) abdominal pain/abdominal discomfort responder 
o  26-week (13/26) IBS Degree of Relief of Responder 
o  Change from baseline in EQ-5D VAS at week 12 
o  Change from baseline in EQ-5D Utility Index Score at week 12 
o  Change from baseline in patients assessment of IBS-QOL at week 12 
The secondary endpoints were then – as in study LIN-MD-31 grouped as “main” and “supportive” 
secondary endpoints. 
The main secondary endpoints were the following: The two 26 weeks evaluations, and the 12-weeks 
evaluations of CSBM, stool consistency, straining, and bloating. All other secondary endpoints were to 
be handled as being supportive. For the European analysis, a 3-stop serial gate-keeping multiple 
comparisons procedure was planned, with the first step comprising the two co-primary efficacy 
parameters, the second step testing the two 26-weeks endpoints, and the third step comprising the 
12-week CSBM, stool consistency, straining, and bloating endpoints. 
For the US, the serial 5-step gate-keeping approach was used, in which progression to the next stop 
only had to go forward if all individual null hypotheses within a step were rejected at the stop-specific 
overall significance level. All subsequent steps had to stop if any null hypothesis within a stop was not 
rejected. The steps consisted of the following: 1.) the four co-primary efficacy parameters; 2.) the first 
four secondary endpoints; 3.) the next three secondary endpoints (pain, discomfort, bloating); 4.) the 
fourth step was to test the two 6/12 week related secondary parameters; 5.) the final step was to test 
the single remaining secondary parameter.  
A range of additional efficacy parameters (more than 40 positions) were then defined, taking into 
account the 26-weeks evaluations (evaluating not only 13/26 weeks responder parameters, but also 
20/26 responders) at this step only.  
Sample size 
Sample size planning was similar to study LIN-MD-31. 800 patients were planned to be included. 
Randomisation 
Randomisation was conducted in similar way as in study LIN-MD-31. 
Blinding (masking) 
The blinding procedures were similar to study LIN-MD-31. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 65/133
 
 
 
 
Statistical methods 
In order to fulfil different requirements of EMA and FDA, different statistical analysis plans (SAP) with 
different primary/secondary endpoints were applied for the EU and the US application. The following 
description of statistical methods is based on the European SAPs only. 
The double-blind, placebo-controlled pivotal study MCP-103-302 had the co-primary endpoints “12-
week abdominal pain/discomfort response” and “12 week IBS degree of relief response”. The 
responders were determined according to pre-specified criteria. Statistically significant changes versus 
placebo were required in both primary efficacy parameters for the trial to have met the primary 
efficacy objective. In study MCP-103-302, the “26-week abdominal pain/discomfort response” and “26 
week IBS degree of relief response”, which are the relevant endpoints to support the indication of long-
term continuous treatment according to the “Points to consider on the evaluation of medicinal products 
for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome” (CPMP/EWP/785/97), were among the main secondary 
endpoints.  
For both co-primary efficacy parameters, the proportion of responders in the linaclotide and placebo 
groups was compared using the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel (CMH) test controlling for geographical 
region. The number and percentage of responders for each treatment group, the difference in 
responder rates between the treatment groups, the odds ratio based on the CMH-method with 
corresponding confidence intervals, and the two-sided p-value associated with the CMH test are 
presented.  
Continuous secondary endpoints were analysed using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) models with 
fixed effect terms for treatment group and geographical region and the patient’s corresponding 
baseline value of the parameter as a covariate.  
The analyses of the primary and secondary efficacy parameters were based on the ITT population. In 
order to confirm the robustness of the results, the primary efficacy endpoints and the response rates 
for the 26 week treatment period were also analyzed using the PP Population. 
It was distinguished between main, supportive and additional secondary efficacy endpoints. The overall 
type I family-wise error rate for the co-primary and main secondary efficacy endpoints was controlled 
at the 0.05 significance level using a 3-step serial gatekeeping procedure. In each step, a set of 
hypotheses was tested; progression to the next step occurred only if all hypotheses in the previous 
step were rejected. Within each step, the type I error was controlled at the 0.05 level: In the first step, 
statistical significance was needed for both co-primary endpoints; the type I error rates in the 
subsequent step(s) were controlled using the Hochberg procedure. The supportive and additional 
secondary endpoints were explored without control of the type I error rate, statistical tests being 
meant to be considered descriptively. 
An observed-cases approach to missing data was applied. Missing values were not imputed. If the 
value for a primary endpoint was missing for a treatment period week, the patient was considered a 
non-responder for that week; for weekly responder parameters based on IVRS daily assessments, a 
patient with less than 4 complete IVRS calls during a treatment week was not considered a responder 
for that week. As sensitivity analyses, for parameters that were defined on a weekly basis, a last 
observation carried forward (LOCF) approach was also applied, imputing the last non-missing weekly 
value. The protocol allowed for rescue medication but data were included in the analysis irrespective of 
rescue medication usage. 
Further analyses that can be considered as sensitivity analyses were provided for the abdominal 
pain/discomfort response and IBS degree of relief response for the 12 week treatment period and for 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 66/133
 
 
 
 
the 26 week treatment period. The primary endpoint “abdominal pain/discomfort response” was 
analyzed using alternate responder definitions for weekly response (≥40% and ≥50% improvement 
from baseline instead of ≥30%). A longitudinal analysis was provided for abdominal pain/abdominal 
discomfort weekly response and the IBS degree of relief weekly response utilizing a generalized linear 
model using the logit as link function and the exchangeable log odds ratio structure, based on the 
observed cases during the treatment period. The models used treatment group, region, week, week by 
treatment interaction as factors. An analysis of sustained responders was also provided, which defined 
sustained responders as those responders who were weekly responders in 2 of the 4 last weeks before 
the ending of the treatment period or discontinuing the trial. 
Centre effects were not explored due to the small number of patients per centre. The primary analysis 
was stratified by geographical region. The consistency of the treatment effect for the primary 
endpoints was explored on the pooled ITT-population of the pivotal studies by pre-specified subgroup 
analyses by age and gender and in additional post-hoc subgroup analyses by race, ethnicity, and BMI.  
Results 
Participant flow 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 67/133
 
 
 
 
Figure 15: Number of patients for study MCP-103-302 
Assessed for Eligibility 
(n=2340)  
Excluded  
488 
Not meeting Incl.criteria   336 
Adverse event:    
Protocol violation  
Withdrawal of consent 
Lost to follow-up   
Other reasons  
2 
8 
91 
22 
29 
Assessed for Eligibility after pre-treatment phase: 1852 
Randomised 805 
1047 
Excluded  
Not meeting Incl. criteria  893 
Adverse event 
Protocol violation  
Withdrawal of consent  
Lost to follow-up   
Other reasons  
3 
6 
103 
27 
15 
Placebo 
Linaclotide 290 µg 
Allocated to intervention    
Did not receive Allocated intervention; 
give reasons  
0 
403 
- Premature discontinuation: 98 (24.3%) 
w
o
Adverse event 
Protocol violation  
withdrawal of consent  
Lost to follow-up   
Insufficient ther. resp. 
Other  
10 
11 
26 
13 
33 
5 
Allocated to intervention    
Did not receive Allocated intervention; 
give reasons 
0 
402 
Premature discontinuation: 108 (26.9%) 
Adverse event 
Protocol violation  
withdrawal of consent  
Lost to follow-up   
Insufficient ther. resp. 
Other  
41 
8 
24 
18 
15 
2 
l
n
e
m
o
r
n
E
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
l
l
o
F
Analysed (ITT): 
Excluded from analysis 
403 
0 
Analysed (ITT): 
Excluded from analysis 
Reason: Missing postrandomisation 
entry for primary efficacy parameters: 1 
401 
Analysed PP: 
367 
Analysed PP 
368 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 68/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Double-entry patients were noted before finalising of the final report as 6 patients had previously 
participated in or were actively participating in another study of linaclotide at the time they enrolled in 
the study. An Addendum to the study report lists these patients. Of the six, two had previously taken 
part in a phase 2b study, one had taken part in a phase 3 and in a long-term safety trial, one was 
taking part in a long-term safety trial, and one had been enrolled into the pre-treatment period of 
another phase 3 trial. These patients do increase the number of patients with protocol deviation 
defined as class 1 (patients that entered the trial though they did not satisfy the entry criteria) from 38 
to 44. 
Recruitment 
The pivotal study MCP-103-302 was conducted between July-2009 (first patient recruited) and 
September 2010 (last patient completed) in 111 centers in US. Again, randomisation was relatively 
fast, apparently. The time that elapsed between first patient in and last patient out was a little longer 
than in the other study, obviously attributable to the longer duration of the trial. 
Conduct of the study 
Protocol amendments without impact on the conduct of the trial were implemented in similar way as in 
study LIN-MD-31 
Baseline data 
The demographic baseline data are shown in the following table. As can be seen there were statistically 
significant differences in the gender distribution, and regarding height, with no other parameters 
showing relevant or significant differences. The majority of patients were Caucasian, and female 
(78.0% and 89.6%). 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 69/133
 
 
 
 
Table 35: Demographic and Baseline Characteristics (ITT population): 
The most frequent concomitant conditions reported in the patients were haemorrhoids, (33.4%), 
depression (27.7%), hysterectomy (27.8%), gastrointestinal reflux disease (25.1%), seasonal allergies 
(19.4%), hypertension (19.3%), drug hypersensitivity (17.3%), headaches (15.7%), anxiety 17.0%, 
and insomnia (17.3%). The baseline variables used for efficacy (and, of course for inclusion) are shown 
in the following table. No relevant nor significant differences between the treatment groups were seen. 
Baseline was quite similar to the baseline values in the other study. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 70/133
 
 
 
 
 
Table 36: Baseline efficacy parameters (ITT population): 
The evaluation of concomitant medication at baseline did also not reveal obvious differences between 
the groups. Altogether, 90% of the patients used concomitant medication. The highest used was seen 
for propionic acid derivatives (usually NSAIDs; 19%), anilides (17%), multivitamins (17%), PPIs 
(17%), progestogens and estrogens, fixed combinations (15%), SSRIs (15’%), other antidepressants 
(14%), HMG CoA reductase inhibitors (12%), and benzodiazepines (11%). 
Numbers analysed 
See above: Participant flow. 
Outcomes and estimation 
The following table shows the evaluation of the primary and main secondary “European endpoints”. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 71/133
 
 
 
 
 
Table 37: Overview of primary and main secondary efficacy parameters for the EU 
evaluation: 
The same  supportive evaluation as in study LIN-MD-31 (sensitivity analysis) of the primary endpoints 
is presented with additional analyses applying the LOCF approach to the ITT population, and with the 
PP-population (applying the OC approach), however, only for the 12-week results. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 72/133
 
 
 
 
 
Table 38: EU additional analyses: Primary efficacy parameters LOCF (ITT) and PP 
populations (OC) 
The “sensitivity analyses” are presented in the following table for the 26-weeks results: 
Table 39: 26-week abdominal pain/discomfort responder – OC approach (ITT population), 
LOCF (ITT population) and PP population (OC approach): 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 73/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 40: 26 week IBS Degree of Relief responders – OC approach (ITT population), OC 
approach (ITT population) sensitivity analysis, LOCF approach (ITT population) and PP 
population (OC approach). 
The CHMP notes that the study results appear to be robust and overall insensitive to this analysis. All 
results are highly statistically significant. The magnitude of effect appears to be a net gain in responder 
rates of just under 20% for abdominal pain/discomfort, and just above 20% for the IBS Degree of 
Relief responder. 
An overall longitudinal analysis of abdominal pain/discomfort weekly responders is given for 12 and 26 
weeks, with estimated responder rates being 0.54 and 0.59 for linaclotide, and 0.37 and 0.41 for 
placebo at the two points of analysis (both p-values <0.00001). The longitudinal analysis also shows 
that already at week 1 of the analyses there was a significant difference between linaclotide and 
placebo. The longitudinal analysis is shown in the following graph. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 74/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 16: Longitudinal analyses of abdominal pain/discomfort weekly responders up to 26 
weeks – OC approach – ITT population. 
Similar results were seen for the IBS Degree of Relief responder analyses, of which the graphical 
display is shown in the following. 
Figure 17: Longitudinal analysis of IBS Degree of Relief responders up o 26 weeks – OC 
approach – ITT population: 
There is an apparent decrease in responder rates for the week 26 time-point (decrease from 0.45 to 
0.36 in the linaclotide, and from 0.21 to 0.14 in the placebo group) which occurred again because of 
missing values, in patients that had the end of study visit before the last IVRS call. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 75/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The further secondary endpoints included in the gate-keeping procedure for the European SAP are 
presented in the following table: 
Table 41: European main secondary endpoints: 12-week data, ITT population. 
Variable 
placebo 
linaclotide 
LSMD (95% CI) 
12-week CSBM 
Baseline 
frequency 
End of treatment 
Difference 
12-week stool 
Baseline 
consistency 
End of treatment 
Difference 
12-week severity 
Baseline 
of straining 
End of treatment 
Difference 
12 week bloating 
Baseline 
End of treatment 
0.213 
0.884 
0.699 
2.293 
2.976 
0.607 
3.545 
2.854 
ß-663 
6.494 
5.445 
0.176 
2.374 
2.239 
p-value 
1.54 (1.23, 1.85 
<0.0001) 
2.381 
1.31 (1.14, 1.47) 
4.314 
1.914 
3.570 
2.295 
1.235 
6.650 
4.681 
<0.0001 
- 0.572 
(-0.686, -0.459) 
<0.0001 
-0.882 
(-1.123, -0.641) 
Difference 
-1.032 
-1-914 
<0.0001 
The evaluation of these European secondary endpoints for the 26-weeks time-point are presented 
here: 
Table 42: European secondary endpoints: 26 weeks data, ITT population: 
Variable 
placebo 
linaclotide 
LSMD (95% CI) 
26-week CSBM 
Baseline 
frequency 
End of treatment 
Difference 
26-week stool 
Baseline 
consistency 
End of treatment 
Difference 
26-week severity 
Baseline 
of straining 
End of treatment 
0.213 
0.894 
0.681 
2.293 
3.017 
0.725 
3.547 
2.823 
p-value 
1.5324 
(1.206, 1.842) 
<0.001 
1.240 
(1.081, 1.398) 
<0.0001 
-0.580 
(-0.694, -0.466) 
0.176 
2.375 
2.199 
2.381 
4.289 
1.900 
3.562 
2.251 
Difference 
-0.724 
-1.311 
<0.0001 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 76/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Variable 
placebo 
linaclotide 
LSMD (95% CI) 
26 week bloating 
Baseline 
End of treatment 
Difference 
6.494 
5.284 
-1.210 
p-value 
-0.959 
(-1.219, -0.699) 
6.650 
4.434 
-2.215 
<0.0001 
The CHMP notes that it can be shown that the results after 26 weeks are similar to the ones achieved 
after 12 weeks. Obviously efficacy can be maintained over the longer treatment period. All p-values 
still indicated consistent high significance. 
The further supportive EU secondary endpoints are presented in the following tables. Similar to the 
results for the main secondary endpoints as above, the 12- and 26 weeks data are presented in this 
AR, contrary to the study report, where the 26-weeks data are only included in the appendices: 
Table 43: European additional secondary endpoints: 12- and 26 weeks data, ITT population: 
Variable 
placebo 
linaclotide 
LSMD (95% CI) 
12-week SBM 
Baseline 
frequency 
End of treatment 
Difference 
26-week SBM 
Baseline 
frequency  
End of treatment 
Difference 
12-week 
Baseline 
abdominal pain 
severity 
End of treatment 
Difference 
26 abdominal pain 
Baseline 
severity 
End of treatment 
Difference 
12-week percent 
Baseline 
of abdominal pain 
free days 
End of treatment 
Difference 
26-week percent 
Baseline 
of abdominal pain 
free days 
End of treatment 
Difference 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
1.739 
2.987 
1.313 
1.739 
2.814 
1.075 
5.535 
4.397 
-1.070 
5.535 
4.247 
-1.288 
2.069 
6.893 
4.825 
2.069 
8.214 
6.145 
p-value 
2.704  
(2.255, 3.153) 
<0.0001 
2.671  
(2.227, 3.115) 
<0.0001 
- 0.782 
(-1.019, -0.545) 
1.745 
4.225 
4.017 
1.745 
5.495 
3.749 
5.628 
3.683 
-1.852 
<0.0001 
5.628 
3.455 
-2.173 
2.083 
12.570 
10.487 
2.083 
14.629 
12.545 
-0.855 
(-1.109, -0.601) 
<0.0001 
0.227 
(0.105, 0.348) 
0.0003 
0.246 * 
(0.123, 0.369) 
<0.0001 
Page 77/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Variable 
placebo 
linaclotide 
LSMD (95% CI) 
12 week abd. 
Baseline 
discomfort 
severity 
End of treatment 
Difference 
26 week abd. 
Baseline 
discomfort 
severity 
End of treatment 
Difference 
5.980 
4.851 
-1.103 
5.980 
4.695 
-1.261 
p-value 
-0.837 
(-1.071, -0.603) 
6.124 
4.116 
-1.940 
<0.0001 
6.124 
3.875 
-0.916  
(-1.166, -0.663) 
-2.176 
<0.0001 
*evaluation of LS mean differences done by ANCOVA (rank-transformed normal scores) 
The further analysis presents the evaluation of the so-called “sustained response”, for both endpoints, 
including the “sensitivity analyses” for the different imputation methods (OC and LOCF). The results 
are as follows: 
Table 44: 12-week and 26 abdominal pain/discomfort sustained responders ITT-population: 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 78/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 45: 12-week and 26-week IBS Degree of relief sustained responders – ITT approach: 
The analysis of the different grades of response (40% and 50% response) is presented in the following 
table: 
Table 46: 12-week abdominal pain/discomfort 40% and 50% responders – ITT population: 
Similar results are also reported fro the abdominal pain (only) responders. 
The CHMP notes that the 40% and 50% responder results for abdominal pain remain consistent with 
the overall results, and the magnitude of gain of effect even appears to be greater the “harder” the 
requirements are.  
The CHMP requested a 26-weeks analysis together with subgroup analysis as regards gender, race, 
and age. It could be shown that an overall positive effect is preserved across these categories in the 
primary and main secondary parameters, although some variability and even reduction of the 
magnitude of the effect is observed. However, the notion that this can be attributed to the lower 
numbers included in these subgroups can be accepted overall. 
Regarding the category “age” the company again shows acceptable consistency across the results for 
the 12-week evaluation. However, there is a gross deviation in the responder analysis for the 26-week 
evaluation, indicating that there might be almost no effect on abdominal pain/discomfort, but a more 
than double effect (compared to the overall population) in the IBS Degree of Relief response. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 79/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1.4: Subgroup analyses by age at 26 weeks for the primary efficacy endpoints and 
main secondary efficacy endpoints (ITT population, study MCP-103-302): 
Additional analysis of the company showing higher degrees of response of 40% and 50% (for the pain 
response) do also not indicate a clinically relevant difference between active and placebo. It is 
acknowledged that this analysis is based on a small dataset only; however, together with the 
differential effects in the elderly on Quality of Life, it contributes to the impression that – for long-term 
treatment – the overall effect in the elderly especially on pain related symptoms is diminished.  
To address the CHMP’s concerns regarding the efficacy in the elderly, the applicant has provided an 
additional sensitivity analysis of both phase 3 studies, comparing a “completer” population, with the 
pivotal ITT analysis set, trying to account for the effect of drop-outs. Differential drop-out has also 
been analysed, and it could be shown that adverse events were the only factor causing the differential 
drop-out seen in elderly patients, thus potentially substantiating the suspicion of an altered benefit-risk 
ratio in this population. 
The completer analysis was indeed able to show that – especially in study MCP-103-302, and especially 
in the 6 months results – the results in the completers were consistently better than those in the ITT 
population; for the 3 months evaluation even reaching levels of “success” that were not substantially 
different from the overall results (of the other age groups).  
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 80/133
 
 
 
 
 
In order to look for the inconsistency of the 6 months results with the rest of the results, the company 
used the required analysis of the secondary endpoints abdominal pain, abdominal discomfort, and 
bloating, to present the longitudinal display of the results. 
Figure 4.1: Longitudinal Analysis of Percent change from baseline in Abdominal Pain at its 
Worst over 26 weeks (OC, ITT Population, MCP-103-302) 
Figure 4.2: Longitudinal Analysis of Percent change from baseline in Abdominal Discomfort 
at its Worst over 26 weeks (OC, ITT Population, MCP-103-302) 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 81/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.3: Longitudinal Analysis of Percent change from baseline in Bloating over 26 weeks 
(OC, ITT Population, MCP-103-302) 
These data support that the variability in the results from week to week was increased, especially after 
12 weeks treatment, not only in the active, but also in the placebo treatment group, with an apparent 
trend to higher placebo responses in the elderly population than in the total population. Therefore, the 
CHMP concluded that the apparently reduced efficacy seen in the elderly after long-term treatment in 
the abdominal pain/discomfort responder endpoint, is most likely caused by a combination of 
differential drop-out, highly increased variability (mainly to small numbers), and an increased placebo 
response. In the opinion of the CHMP, the overall response in the elderly population is not significantly 
reduced.  
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 82/133
 
 
 
 
 
Evaluation of Quality of Life: 
The evaluations of Quality of Life included the EQ-5D VAS score, the EQ-5D Utility Index Score, and 
the IBS-QOL disease specific QoL-instrument. The results of the EQ-5D VAS  is presented in the 
following table, showing a statistically significant superiority for linaclotide both for the 12- as well as 
the 26 weeks evaluation: 
Table 48:  Change from baseline in the 12- and 26-weeks VAS of EQ-5D questionnaire (LOCF) 
ITT population. 
In the evaluation of the utility index score of the EQ-5D, the responses to the 5 questions (relating to 
mobility, self-care, usual activities, anxiety/depression and pain/discomfort) the mean change from 
baseline in the utility index score was significantly greater in the linaclotide treatment group (0.079) 
than in the placebo group (0.045) (p-value 0.0005) after week 12. After 26 weeks the changes were 
0.085 in the linaclotide group, and 0.059 in the placebo group (p-value: 0.0056). The changes in the 
different dimensions of the utility index score are shown in the following table. It is shown that the 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 83/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
differences are mostly, or almost exclusively attributable to the advantages for the linaclotide group in 
the pain/discomfort part of the evaluations. However, slightly better results are also achieved for 
mobility, self case, and anxiety depression, and the advantage in the “usual activities” dimension being 
moderate. 
Table 49: Change form baseline in the 12week and 26-week responses for each dimension 
of the EQ-5D questionnaire – ITT population. 
The results of the evaluation of the disease specific IBS-QOL instrument resulted in the figures shown 
in the following table. All results show statistically significant differences. All of the results were indeed 
highly statistically significant apart from the interference with activity subscale at week 12, which was 
significant at p=0.036 only. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 84/133
 
 
 
 
 
Table 50: Change from baseline in IBS-QOL parameters at weeks 12 and 26 (ITT population) 
The evaluation of the WPAI: IBS-C absenteeism, presenteeism, overall productivity loss, and daily 
activity impairment is not included in the study report. The tables included in the appendices indicate 
higher effects for linaclotide both at 12 and 26 weeks. A statistical evaluation is not included. The 
evaluation of the Health Resource Use Questionnaire (HRUQ) did not reveal marked differences 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 85/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
between the groups. It was however noted that overall the baseline numbers for Health Resource Use 
were too low to yield any meaningful changes. 
For the evaluation of the SF-12 generic QoL instrument, the study report stated that the overall 
summary score was similar to the general US population. However when looking into the results, it is 
shown that both the physical component summary scores, and, the mental component summary 
scores were around 45 to 46 at baseline, whereas the general population is defined by scores of 50. 
The changes achieved with the two treatments were consistently higher with linaclotide than with 
placebo in both the two main dimensions. The physical component Summary Scores increased by 3.52 
and3.56 points for placebo, and for 4.64 and 4.57 points for linaclotide after 12 and 26 weeks of 
treatment. The respective figures for the Mental component Summary Scores were 1.19 and 1.24 for 
placebo, and 4.07, and 3.92 for linaclotide. A statistical evaluation of these results is not presented. 
The CHMP notes that, most of the Quality of Life instruments used in the evaluation of the trial 
indicated advantages for the use of linaclotide in comparison to placebo, both at the 12 as well as at 
the 26 weeks evaluation. These results are taken as very much supportive of the evaluations 
presented before.  
Ancillary analyses 
The evaluation of the primary endpoints according to the US SAP is shown in the following table: 
Table 47: Primary Efficacy Analysis US SAP – ITT population: 
Variable 
placebo 
linaclotide 
Difference, OR for 
p-value 
(n=403) n(%) 
Response (+95% 
CI) 
9/12 week 
APC 3+1 
responder 
9/12 week 
CSBM 3+1 
responder 
9/12 week 
abd. pain 
responder 
12 (3.0) 
51 (12.7) 
9.7 
<0.0001 
4.65 (2.44, 8.84) 
20 (5.0) 
72 (18.0) 
13.0 
<0.0001 
4.19 (2.50; 7.03) 
79 (19.6) 
156 (38.9) 
19.3 
<0.0001 
2.62 (1.91; 3.60) 
6/12 weeks 
56 (13.9) 
135 (33.7) 
19.8 
<0.0001 
APC+1 
responder 
3.16 (2.22; 4.49) 
Regarding the incremental levels of SCBM rate and abdominal pain the following was observed: 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 86/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 18: Percentage of patients with improvement in 12-week CSBM rate by level of 
improvement – ITT population 
Figure 19: Percentage of patients with decreases in 12-week abdominal pain by level of 
decrease – ITT population. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 87/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Further endpoints not included in the special European section of evaluation comprise the 6/12 week 
CSBM+1 responders, the 6/12 weeks abdominal pain (without discomfort) responder, and a list of 20 
“additional efficacy responder” analysis. The results are shown in the following tables: 
Table 51: Efficacy results for endpoints not presented in the EU evaluation: 
Variable 
placebo 
linaclotide 
Diff. in responder 
rate;  odds 
ratio(95%CI) 
p-value 
6/12 week 
CSBM+1 
responder 
Responder 
91 (22.6%) 
191 (47.6%) 
25.1 
Non-responder 
312 (77.4%) 
210 (52.4%) 
3.11 (2.29, 4.21) 
<0.0001 
13/26 week 
Responder 
75 (18.6%) 
175 (43.6%) 
25.0 
CSBM+1 
responder 
Non-responder 
328 (81.4%) 
226 (66.4%) 
3.36 (2.44, 4.62) 
<0.0001 
6/12 weeks 
Baseline 
139 (34.5%) 
196 (48.9%) 
14.4 
abdominal pain 
responder 
End of treatment 
264 (65.5%) 
205 (51.1%) 
1.82 (1.37, 2.42) 
<0.0001 
13/26 weeks 
Responder 
126 (31.3%) 
197 (49.1%) 
17.9 
abdominal pain 
responder 
Non-responder 
277 (68.7%) 
204 (60.9%) 
2.12 (1.59, 2.82) 
<0.0001 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 88/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 52: Efficacy results of the “additional efficacy responders” according to FDA 
evaluation 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 89/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 53: Efficacy results of the “additional efficacy responders” according to FDA 
evaluation (continued) 
Similar results are also presented in the following endpoints: Percent changes from baseline in 
abdominal pain, discomfort, and bloating, as well as for fullness, cramping, unsuccessful bowel 
movements, constipation severity etc.. Of remark is the fact that the only parameter that is not 
producing a highly significant difference (but a p-value of “only” 0.0038) is the unsuccessful BMs 
endpoint. Similar to LIN-MD-31, also the proportion of patients with an SBM or CSBM within 24 hours 
after first dose of study drug show a highly significant difference to the advantage of linaclotide. The 
following evaluation included in the “US part” of the evaluations gives an interesting impression of the 
evaluation of overall relief of IBS symptoms: 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 90/133
 
 
 
 
 
Table 54: Relief of IBS symptoms responders (ITT population): 
The evaluation of the use of rescue medication also gives highly statistically significant differences to 
the advantage of the linaclotide group, independent from the evaluation of the overall rescue 
medication use, or the “per-protocol rescue medication” use. A further evaluation presented in the 
efficacy section of the single studies, is again the tabulation of the changes from baseline in the IBS-
SSS score. Highly statistically significant results are achieved, however, only the 12-week data are 
presented. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 91/133
 
 
 
 
 
Table 55: Change from baseline in the IBS-SSS during the first 12 weeks of the treatment 
period (ITT population) 
The evaluation of treatment satisfaction and willingness for treatment continuation at week 26/end of 
treatment also revealed consistency with the previous results (p<0.0001). Rated on a scale of 5 (with 
5 presenting the most positive response), the treatment satisfaction was 2.3 in the placebo and 3.6 in 
the linaclotide group, and the willingness for treatment continuation was 3.1 in the placebo, and 3.8 in 
the linaclotide group. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 92/133
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of main study(ies) 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. According to the EU guidelines requesting the documentation of 6 months treatment 
duration, study MCP-103-302 is the sole “pivotal” study for this application. These summaries should 
be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as well as the benefit risk assessment 
(see later sections). 
Table 2.  Summary of Efficacy for trial LIN-MD-31 
Title:  “A  phase  III,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-group  trial  of  linaclotide, 
administered orally for 12 weeks followed by a 4-week randomised withdrawal period in patients with 
irritable bowel syndrome with constipation” 
Study identifier 
LIN-MD-31 
Design 
double-blind, placebo-controlled parallel group, 4-week randomized 
withdrawal period. 
Duration of main phase: 
3 months 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
7 days 
Duration of Extension phase:  4 weeks 
Hypothesis 
Superiority of linaclotide vs. placebo in the treatment of IBS-C 
Treatments groups 
linaclotide 290 µg 
n=406 
n=397 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
placebo 
Co-Primary 
endpoints 
Main 
secondary 
endpoints 
abdominal 
pain/discom
fort 
responder 
and  
IBS Degree 
of Relief of 
Responder 
Change in 
12-week 
CSBM 
frequency 
Change in 
12 week 
stool 
consistency  
Change in 
the severity 
of straining 
Change in 
severity of 
bloating 
Abd. pain/discomfort response was defined as 
30% improvement  in NRS abdominal 
pain/discomfort score for 6 out of 12 
treatment weeks 
Degree of Relief of Response was analysed 
from a 7-point Likert scale with a responder 
defined as a patients that had considerable of 
complete relief for 6 out of 12 treatment 
weeks 
CSBM defined as a BM in the absence of use 
of laxatives with a sense of complete 
evacuation 
Stool consistency was defined according to 
the 7-point Bristol-Stool-Form Scale (ranging 
from 1 (hard lumps, nuts) to 7 (entirely 
liquid, watery) 
Straining at BM was defined according to a 5-
point Likert scale from 1 (not at all) to 5 (an 
extreme amount) 
Bloating was defined on an 11-point 
numerical rating scale where 0 represents no 
bloating and 10 represents very severe 
bloating 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 93/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title:  “A  phase  III,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-group  trial  of  linaclotide, 
administered orally for 12 weeks followed by a 4-week randomised withdrawal period in patients with 
irritable bowel syndrome with constipation” 
Secondary 
and other 
endpoints: 
Change in 
SBM 
frequency 
SMB frequency is defined as any BM without 
the use of laxatives 
Change in 
abdominal 
pain score 
Abdominal pain is scored on a 11-point NRS 
asking for their abdominal pain at its worst 
over the last 24 hours 
Change in 
percent of 
abdominal 
pain free 
days 
Change in 
abdominal 
discomfort 
scale 
QoL 
measureme
nts 
Abdominal pain free days were defined as 
days with a rating of 0 for the severity of 
abdominal pain 
Abdominal discomfort is scored on a 11-point 
NRS asking for their abdominal discomfort at 
its worst over the last 24 hours 
Euro-QoL-5D, IBS-QoL 
Database lock 
03 September 2010 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
ITT population : n=803 (395 placebo, 305 linaclotide) 
Co-Primary 
endpoint abd. 
pain/discomfort 
responders 
Co-primary 
endpoint IBS 
Degree of Relief 
responder 
12 week CSBM 
frequency (LSM 
change from BL) 
12-week stool 
consistency (LSM 
change from BL) 
12-week severity 
of straining (LSM 
change from BL) 
12 week severity 
of bloating (LSM 
change from BL) 
Placebo 
41.8% 
linaclotide 
54.8% 
OR: 1.7 (1.28 – 2.25), p=0.0002 
18.5% 
37.0% 
OR: 2.61 (1.89 – 3.62), p<0.0001 
0.71 
Diff.: 1.57 (1.24 – 1.90), p<0.0001 
0.66 
Diff.: 1.41 (1.24 – 1.57), p<0.0001 
1.27 
2.07 
-0.65 
- 1.31 
Diff.: -0.66 (-0.76 - -0.55), p<0.0001 
-1.1 
-1.94 
Diff.: -0.84 (-1.10 - -0.59), p<0.0001 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 94/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title:  “A  phase  III,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-group  trial  of  linaclotide, 
administered orally for 12 weeks followed by a 4-week randomised withdrawal period in patients with 
irritable bowel syndrome with constipation” 
Notes 
All additional secondary parameters were p<0.05 including Quality 
of Life (with the exception of EQ-5-D VAS, which was p=0.06); most 
parameters were <0.0001.  
Table 3.  Summary of Efficacy for trial MCP-103-302 
Title:  A  phase  3,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel  group  trial  of  linaclotide 
administered orally for 26 weeks in patients with Irritable Bowel Syndrome with Constipation. 
Study 
identifier 
Design 
MCP-103-302 
Randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group trial of linaclotide with  
26 weeks duration  
Duration of main phase: 
26 weeks 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
1 week 
Duration of Extension phase: 
N/a 
Hypothesis 
Superiority of linaclotide over placebo in the treatment of IBS-C 
Treatments 
groups 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Linaclotide 290 µg 
N=401, 6 months 
Placebo 
Co-
Primary 
endpoint
s 
Main 
seconda
ry 
endpoint
s 
N=403, 6 months 
12 week abdominal 
pain/discomfort 
responder and  
Abd. pain/discomfort response was defined as 
30% improvement  in NRS abdominal 
pain/discomfort score for 6 out of 12 
treatment weeks 
12 week IBS Degree of 
Relief of Responder 
26 week abdominal 
pain/discomfort 
responder 
Degree of Relief of Response was analysed 
from a 7-point Likert scale with a responder 
defined as a patients that had considerable of 
complete relief for 6 out of 12 treatment 
weeks 
Definition similar to primary endpoint, with 
the exception of need to be a responder for 
13/26 weeks 
26 week IBS Degree of 
See above 
Relief responder 
Change in 12-week 
CSBM frequency 
Change in 12 week stool 
consistency  
Change in 12-week 
severity of straining 
Change in 12-week 
severity of bloating 
CSBM defined as a BM in the absence of use 
of laxatives with a sense of complete 
evacuation 
Stool consistency was defined according to 
the 7-point Bristol-Stool-Form Scale (ranging 
from 1 (hard lumps, nuts) to 7 (entirely 
liquid, watery) 
Straining at BM was defined according to a 5-
point Likert scale from 1 (not at all) to 5 (an 
extreme amount) 
Bloating was defined on an 11-point 
numerical rating scale where 0 represents no 
bloating and 10 represents very severe 
bloating 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 95/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title:  A  phase  3,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel  group  trial  of  linaclotide 
administered orally for 26 weeks in patients with Irritable Bowel Syndrome with Constipation. 
Seconda
ry 
endpoint
s: 
12 wk. Change in SBM 
frequency 
SMB frequency is defined as any BM without 
the use of laxatives 
12 wk. Change in 
abdominal pain score 
12 wk. Change in 
percent of abdominal 
pain free days 
Abdominal pain is scored on a 11-point NRS 
asking for their abdominal pain at its worst 
over the last 24 hours 
Abdominal pain free days were defined as 
days with a rating of 0 for the severity of 
abdominal pain 
12 wk Change in 
abdominal discomfort 
scale 
Abdominal discomfort is scored on a 11-point 
NRS asking for their abdominal discomfort at 
its worst over the last 24 hours 
QoL measurements 
Euro-QoL-5D, IBS-QoL 
26 wk abdominal 
pain/discomfort 
responder and IBS 
degree of relief of 
responder 
See above 
26 wk abdominal 
pain/discomfort 
responders with different 
cut-off points 
See above 
Database lock  03.09.2010 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
ITT population : n=805 (403 placebo, 402 linaclotide) 
Co-Primary 
endpoint abd. 
pain/discomfort 
responders 
Co-primary 
endpoint IBS 
Degree of Relief 
responder 
Main sec. EP abd. 
pain/disc. 
responder 26 
weeks 
Main sec. EP IBS 
Degree of Relief 
responder at 26 
weeks 
12 week CSBM 
frequency (LSM 
change from BL) 
Placebo 
38.5% 
linaclotide 
54.1% 
OR: 1.9 (2.4-2.5), p<0.0001 
16.6% 
39.4% 
OR: 3.3 (2.3 – 4.5), p<0.0001 
36.0% 
53.6% 
OR: 2.1 (1.6 – 2.7), p<0.00001 
16.9% 
37.2% 
OR: 2.9 (2.1 – 4.0) 
0.7 
2.2 
Diff: 1.54 (1.23 – 1.85; p<0.0001 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 96/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Title:  A  phase  3,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel  group  trial  of  linaclotide 
administered orally for 26 weeks in patients with Irritable Bowel Syndrome with Constipation. 
12-week stool 
consistency (LSM 
change from BL) 
12-week severity 
of straining (LSM 
change from BL) 
12 week severity 
of bloating (LSM 
change from BL) 
0.60 
1.91 
Diff:1.31 (1.15 – 1.47), p<0.0001 
-0.66 
-1.24 
Diff: -0.57 (-0.69 – -0.50), p<0.0001 
-1.03 
-1.91 
Diff: - 0.88 (-1.12 - -0.64) p<0.0001 
Notes 
All additional secondary parameters were p<0.05 including Quality 
of Life; most parameters were <0.0001.  
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
A pooled analysis of the phase 3 data has been presented for the relevant outcomes. However, due to 
the shorter treatment duration in LIN-MD-31, this is an evaluation of the 3 months data only.  
The following two tables show the pooled evaluation of the two co-primary endpoints: 
Table 6: 12-Week abdominal pain/discomfort responders (pooled ITT population) 
Study 
Linaclotide 
Placebo 
MCP-103-
302 
LIN-MD-31 
Pooled 
217/401 
(54.1%) 
222/405 
(54.8%) 
439/805 
(54.5%) 
155/403 
(38.5%) 
165/395 
(41.8%) 
320/797 
(40. 2%) 
Difference (%) 
in response rate 
p-Valuea 
15.6 
<0.0001 
13.0 
0.0002 
14.4 
<0.0001 
Table 7: 12-Week IBS Degree of Relief responders (pooled ITT population): 
Study 
Linaclotide 
Placebo 
MCP-103-
302 
LIN-MD-31 
Pooled 
158/401 
(39.4%) 
150/405 
(37.0%) 
308/805 
(38.3%) 
67/403 
(16.6%) 
73/395 
(18.5%) 
139/797 
(17.4%) 
Difference in % 
response rate 
p-Valuea 
22.8 
<0.0001 
18.6 
<0.0001 
20.8 
<0.0001 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 97/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Clinical studies in special populations were not performed. However, the company has provided 
(pooled) analyses of “special” patient populations. 
a)  Comparison of Efficacy by Age: 
Sub-group analyses has been provided to support that the treatment effects associated with the 290 
mg dose are associated with similar response in patients below or above the 65 years threshold. The 
analysis performed is presented for the pooled ITT analysis of the 3-months results: 
Table 58: Subgroup analyses by age (ITT, pooled 3-months data) 
< 65 years 
> 65 years 
Parameter 
Linaclotide 
 N =763 
Placebo 
N =754 
Linaclotide 
N =42 
Placebo 
N =43 
Primary Efficacy Parameter 
% 
% 
Abd. pain/ disc. 
Responder 
54.52 
39.79 
IBS Relief 
Responder 
38.27 
17.37 
Main Secondary Efficacy Parameters 
OR 
(95% CI) 
1.82* 
(1.48, 2.23) 
2.95* 
(2.32, 3.74) 
% 
% 
54.76 
46.51 
38.10 
18.60 
OR 
(95% CI) 
1.38 
(0.58, 3.28) 
3.15* 
(1.03, 9.64) 
Bloating (11-
point NRS) 
Stool consistency 
(BSFS Score) 
Straining (5-point 
ordinal scale) 
CSBM/week 
LS Mean (SE) 
Change from baseline 
-1.90 
(0.08) 
1.99 
(0.05) 
-1.27 
(0.03) 
2.19 
(0.09) 
-1.04 (0.08) 
0.62 (0.05) 
-0.64 (0.03) 
0.66 (0.09) 
LSMD  
(95% CI) 
-0.86* 
(-1.05, -0.68) 
1.36* 
(1.25, 1.48) 
-0.63* 
(-0.71,-0.55) 
1.52* 
(1.30, 1.75) 
LS Mean (SE) 
Change from baseline 
-0.73 
(0.28) 
0.65 
(0.2) 
-0.67 
(0.14) 
0.42 
(0.58) 
-1.71 
(0.26) 
1.82 
(0.18) 
-1.15 
(0.13) 
2.80 
(0.52) 
LSMD 
(95% CI) 
-0.98* 
(-1.67, -0.28) 
1.18* 
(0.68, 1.67) 
-0.48* 
(-0.85,-0.12) 
2.38* 
(0.97, 3.79) 
In the table above, all results – except the evaluation of the abdominal pain/discomfort responders for 
the old-age sub-group yielded p-values <0.05 (marked with *). 
Similar efficacy of the two age ranges is also claimed for the Quality of Life assessments (especially the 
IBS-QoL). 
In response to questions raised by the CHMP, as discussed above, the applicant provided further 
subgroup analyses by age at 26 weeks for the primary efficacy endpoints and main secondary efficacy 
endpoints (ITT population, study MCP-103-302). Based on these analysis, in the opinion of the CHMP, 
the overall response in the elderly population is considered not to be significantly reduced. For details 
please refer to chapter “outcomes and estimations” of study MCP-103-302. 
b)  Subgroup analysis by gender: 
A similar subgroup evaluation has been performed according to sex: 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 98/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 59: Subgroup Analyses by gender (ITT population, pooled data) 
Parameter 
Females 
Linacloti
de(N= 
735) 
Placebo 
(N =708) 
Males 
Linaclot
ide (N  
=70) 
Placebo 
(N=89) 
Primary Efficacy Parameter 
Abdominal pain/ 
discomfort 
Responder 
IBS Relief 
Responder 
% 
% 
OR 
% 
% 
OR 
(95% CI) 
(95% CI) 
55.51 
40.68 
1.83* 
44.29 
35.96 
1.41 
(1.49, 2.26) 
(0.72, 2.77) 
39.05 
17.66 
3.00* 
30.00 
15.73 
2.26* 
(2.35, 3.83) 
(1.03, 4.96) 
Main Secondary Efficacy Parameters 
LS Mean (SE) 
LSMD 
LS Mean (SE) 
LSMD 
Change from 
baseline 
(95% CI) 
Change from 
baseline 
(95% CI) 
Bloating (11-point 
NRS) 
-1.91 
(0.08) 
-1.03 
(0.08) 
-0.88* 
(-1.07,-0.69) 
Stool consistency 
(BSFS Score) 
2.00 (0.05)  0.60 (0.05) 
1.40* 
Straining (5-point 
ordinal scale) 
-1.28 
(0.03) 
-0.63 
(0.03) 
CSBM/week 
2.22 (0.10)  0.67 (0.10) 
1.55* 
(1.32, 1.78) 
(1.28, 1.51) 
-0.65* 
(-0.73, -0.56) 
-1.73 
(0.23) 
1.81 
(0.16) 
-1.09 
(0.12) 
2.15 
(0.37) 
-1.03 
(0.22) 
0.74 
(0.15) 
-0.71 
(0.11) 
0.56 
(0.34) 
-0.70* 
(-1.25, -0.14) 
1.06* 
(0.68, 1.45) 
-0.38* 
(-0.67,-0.09) 
1.59* 
(0.70, 2.48) 
In the table above, all results – except the evaluation of the abdominal pain/discomfort responders for 
the male sub-group yielded p-values <0.05 (marked with *). Similar to the age-range sub-group 
analysis, similar outcome between the sexes is also claimed for Quality of Life (IBS-QoL). 
During the evaluation the company has presented the relevant subgroup results for study MCP-103-
302 for the 6 months treatment that was previously missing.  
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 99/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1.2: Subgroup analyses by gender at 26 weeks for the primary efficacy endpoints and 
main secondary efficacy endpoints (ITT population, MCP-103-302): 
A display of changes from baseline in Quality of Life parameters by gender did show a consistent effect 
for linaclotide in all subpopulations overall. Some subpopulations in single parameters showing a 
diminished magnitude of effect of missing statistical significance. In the male population, generally 
only a trend was observed due to lower numbers of patients. One outlier result has to be mentioned: 
In the SF-12 PCS scale, male patients had a greater reduction in the placebo group than in the 
linaclotide group. Overall, the CHMP notes that a positive effect is preserved across these categories in 
the primary and main secondary parameters. Some variability and even reduction of the magnitude of 
the effect is attributed to the lower numbers included in these subgroups. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 100/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
c)  Analysis by Disease Severity 
The applicant presents an analyses based on the evaluation of baseline values of the assessment of 
abdominal pain “at its worst” on the 11-point NRS, with the three sub-groups <5, ≥5 and <8, and ≥8. 
The subpopulations included 649, 786, and 167 patients. The following table, according to the 
applicant, shows that improvements in the change from baseline secondary parameters were observed 
for all 3 abdominal pain subpopulations. A statistically significant effect is seen in all evaluations except 
for the percent of abdominal pain-free days in the most severe sub-group. 
Table 60: Results for the change-from baseline secondary efficacy parameters by baseline 
abdominal pain (IBS-C phase 3 pooled ITT population) 
Baseline Abdominal Pain Category 
12-Week 
Change-from- 
Baseline Parameter  Mean 
Baseli
ne 
(overa
ll) 
CSBMs/Week  
SBMs/Week 
Stool Consistency 
(BSFS Score) 
Straining (5-point 
Ordinal Scale) 
Abdominal Pain at its 
Worst (11-point NRS) 
Abdominal Discomfort 
(11-point NRS) 
Bloating (11-point 
NRS) 
Percent of Abdominal 
Pain-free Days 
0.3 
2.0 
2.5 
3.3 
3.9 
4.6 
5.3 
4.2 
< 5 
Linaclotide 
290µ g 
N = 317 
LSMD  
(Lin-
Placebo) 
(95% CI) 
1.5 (1.1, 
1.8)c 
2.6 (2.1, 
3.1)c 
1.4 (1.2, 
1.5)c 
-0.6 (-0.7, -
0.5)c 
-0.4 (-0.6, -
0.2)c 
-0.5 (-0.7, -
0.2)c 
-0.6 (-0.8, -
0.3)c 
4.2 (0.8, 
7.6)a 
≥ 5 and < 8  
≥ 8 
Mean 
Baselin
e 
(overal
l) 
0.2 
1.8 
2.3 
3.7 
6.3 
6.7 
7.1 
0.5 
Linaclotide 
290 µg  
N = 403 
LSMD 
(Lin-
Placebo) 
 (95% CI) 
1.7 (1.3, 
2.0)c 
3.0 (2.6, 
3.5)c 
1.4 (1.2, 
1.6)c 
-0.7 (-0.8, -
0.6)c 
-1.0 (-1.3, -
0.8)c 
-1.0 (-1.3, -
0.8)c 
-1.1 (-1.4 -
0.9)c 
6.3 (3.7, 
8.9)c 
Mean 
Baselin
e 
(overal
l) 
0.1 
1.5 
2.1 
4.0 
8.7 
8.8 
8.9 
0.1 
Linaclotide 
290 µg  
N = 85 
LSMD  
(Lin-
Placebo) 
 (95% CI) 
1.4 (0.8, 
2.0)c 
2.1 (0.9, 
3.2)b 
1.2 (0.8, 
1.6)c 
-0.5 (-0.8, -
0.2)a 
-0.7 (-1.5, -
0.0)a 
-0.8 (-1.5, -
0.1)a 
-0.9 (-1.6, -
0.1)a 
3.3 (-1.2, 
7.8) 
In response to questions from the CHMP the applicant could convincingly show that at first, the 
included patient population is most likely a population that is indeed suffering from moderate to severe 
disease by the more “modern” criteria according to the Rome Working Team Report of 2011 
(Drossman 2011). This particularly relates to the severity as defined by the IBS-SSS, the severity of 
abdominal pain and by the frequency of the symptoms. The company has furthermore analysed the 
study data of the 26 week trial according to several criteria as displayed in the Rome Working Team 
Report (and not just according to abdominal pain severity as shown above). This relates to the 
evaluation according to abdominal pain severity, IBS-SSS severity, and severity according to different 
categories of various QoL measurements, including the severity of psychiatric co-morbidity. This was 
done for the 26 weeks trial only, and the question therefore remains open, whether similar results 
could also be obtained for the 12-week study LIN-31-MD. However, the CHMP accepts that previously 
all results shown have proven to have a high consistency with their results, and accepts that this is 
assessed on the basis of the 26 weeks data only.  
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 101/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
d) Analysis according to race/ethnicity 
The analysis according to race/ethnicity has been done for the 12-week pooled data of study LIN-MD-
31 and MCP-103-302. The results are presented in the following tables: 
Table 61: 12-week Abdominal pain/abdominal discomfort responder by ethnicity (pooled 
data; ITT population): 
Subgroup 
Abdominal 
placebo 
linaclotide 
Diff. in responder 
pain/discomfort 
response at week 
12 (ITT pop. 
pooled data) 
rate;  odds 
ratio(95%CI) 
p-value 
Caucasian 
Responder 
38.63% 
55.01% 
16.38  
n=629/611 
Non-responder 
61.37% 
44.99% 
1.94 (1.55 – 2.43) 
p<0.0001 
Black/African 
Responder 
46.41% 
55.41% 
9.00 
American 
n=148/153 
Non-responder 
53.59% 
44.59% 
1.46 (0.43 – 3.79) 
p=0.1124 
Other 
Responder 
39.39% 
39.29% 
-0.10 
n=28/33 
Non-responder 
60.61% 
60.71% 
1.27 (0.43 – 3.79) 
p=0.6710 
Hispanics 
Responder 
44.68% 
49.49% 
4.81 
n=99/94 
Non-responder 
55.32% 
50.51% 
1.10 (0.63 – 1.94) 
p=0.7326 
Table 62: 12-week IBS Degree of Relief responder by ethnicity (pooled data; ITT population): 
Subgroup 
IBS Degree of 
placebo 
linaclotide 
Diff. in responder 
Relief response at 
week 12 (ITT pop. 
pooled data) 
rate;  odds 
ratio(95%CI) 
p-value 
Caucasian 
Responder 
16-37% 
40.22% 
23.85 
n=629/611 
Non-responder 
83.63% 
59.78% 
3.41 (2.62 – 4.47) 
p<0.0001 
Black/African 
Responder 
20.92% 
31.08% 
10.16 
American 
n=148/153 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Non-responder 
79.08% 
68.92% 
1.73 (1.01 – 2.90) 
p=0.046 
Page 102/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subgroup 
IBS Degree of 
placebo 
linaclotide 
Diff. in responder 
Relief response at 
week 12 (ITT pop. 
pooled data) 
rate;  odds 
ratio(95%CI) 
p-value 
Other 
Responder 
21.21% 
32.14% 
10.98 
n=28/33 
Non-responder 
78.79% 
67.86% 
1.89 (0.57 – 6.29) 
p=0.301 
Hispanics 
Responder 
21.28% 
37.37% 
16.09 
n=99/94 
Non-responder 
78.72% 
62.63% 
3.06 (2.39 – 3.93) 
p<0.0001) 
Within the assessment of different ethnicities, the question whether an extrapolation from a general 
US-American (with only a few Canadian) patient population is possible is also dealt with. The company 
justifies again the transferability of the data by giving detailed reference to the recommendations 
made in the “reflection paper on the extrapolation of results from clinical studies conducted outside the 
EU to the EU population (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/692702/2008). 
The company refers to the following: 
  Extrinsic factors: 
o  Medical practice: For this item it is referred to the fact that the prevalence of IBS in the 
US and Europe has been found to be quite similar. 
o  Disease definition: The pathophysiology of IBS, does not indicated that potential 
differences in the two populations with regard to e.g. food habits, diet, and body mass 
index would implicate a different population with regard to the underlying 
pathophysiology 
o  Study population: The inclusion criteria have been based on the Rome II criteria which 
have been derived from observations obtained in 13 different Western countries. It is 
also referred to the fact that the use of NRS in pain populations did not reveal 
differences between different regions with regard to response 
 
Intrinsic factors: 
o  Genetic polymorphisms present in the US populations are not expected to differ to the 
European population, as this mainly consists of people with European ancestry 
(German, Irish, English, Italian, Polish, French, Scottish, Dutch, Norwegian, and 
Swedish). 
o  The GC-C receptor the pharmacological target of linaclotide has been highly considered 
through evaluation. 
The applicant therefore believes that there are no extrinisic or intrinsic factors with regard to European 
vs. North American patients with IBS-C, or the mechanism of action of linaclotide that would affect 
extrapolation of North American clinical trial results to the European population. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 103/133
 
 
 
 
 
The argumentation of transferability of the American to the European population was accepted by the 
CHMP. 
With their response to questions from the CHMP the applicant provided also subgroup analyses by race 
for the 6 month data. 
Table 1.6: Subgroup analyses by race at 26 weeks for primary efficacy endpoints and main 
secondary efficacy endpoints (ITT, MCP-103-302): 
The CHMP notes that an overall positive effect is preserved across these categories in the primary and 
main secondary parameters, although some variability, and even reduction of the magnitude of the 
effect is observed. However, the notion that this can be attributed to the lower numbers included in 
these subgroups can be accepted overall. 
Also subgroup analysis in the category “race” regarding QoL was provided. This analysis also shows a 
consistent positive effect of linaclotide vs placebo in all parameters analysed at 12 and 26 weeks in 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 104/133
 
 
 
 
 
study MCP-103-302 regardless of race. In the Caucasian population consistent statistical significance of 
the effect can be found with trends in non-caucasian subjects with the “outlier” being the negative 
effect in the SF-12 MCS evaluation.  
For study LIN-MD-31, there was a consistent significance of the results apart from the EQ-5D VAS, and 
a consistent and similar in magnitude trend in the non-caucasian population. 
Table 13.6: Change form Baseline in Quality of Life parameters according to race (Phase 3 
studies) 
The CHMP notes some deviations, and missing statistical significance in the smaller subgroups of non-
caucasian, which are considered to be normal variation, or due to low patient numbers in the 
subgroup, and do therefore not question the overall conclusions.  
e) Analysis according to BMI 
The results in the following tables are given for the two co-primary endpoints: 
Table 63: 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 105/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subgroup 
Abdominal 
placebo 
linaclotide 
Diff. in responder 
pain/abdominal 
discomfort 
responder  
rate;  odds 
ratio(95%CI) 
p-value 
BMI<30 kg/m2 
Responder 
39.18% 
54.18% 
15.00  
Non-responder 
60.82% 
45.82% 
1.85 (1.46 – 2.35) 
p<0.0001 
BMI>30 kg/m2 
Responder 
42.44% 
55.29% 
12.85  
Non-responder 
57.56% 
44.71% 
1.47 (1.17 - 2.39 
p<0.0001 
Subgroup 
IBS Degree of 
placebo 
linaclotide 
Diff. in responder 
Relief response at 
week 12 (ITT pop. 
pooled data) 
rate;  odds 
ratio(95%CI) 
p-value 
BMI<30 kg/m2 
Responder 
16.82% 
36.73% 
19.91  
Non-responder 
83.18% 
63.27% 
2.84 (2.15 – 3.77) 
p<0.0001 
BMI>30 kg/m2 
Responder 
18.91% 
41.57% 
22.66  
Non-responder 
81.09% 
58.43% 
3.09 (2.04 - 4.66) 
p<0.0001 
The CHMP considers that overall efficacy results (co-primary endpoints) by subgroups related to race 
(Caucasian, Black), ethnicity (Non-Hispanic/Latino, Hispanic/Latino patients) and BMI (< 30 kg/m2 or 
≥ 30 kg/m2) are consistent with those in the overall population.  
d)  Analysis of onset of effect and sustainability of effect 
The company also presents data on onset and persistence of the effects referring to the first week of 
treatment superiority in both trials (31.7% and 30.0% responders for abdominal pain/discomfort and 
IBS Degree of Relief during first week on linaclotide, and 21.6% and 8.4% for placebo; p<0.0001) and 
the onset of effect regarding the BM-related parameters (SBM and CSBM were registered from the first 
day (e.g. CSBM on first day: 31% for linaclotide, 11% for placebo). For the persistence of effect, it is 
referred to the evaluations of sustained response as given in the evaluation of the two studies. 
e)  Withdrawal effects/Rebound 
For withdrawal and rebound effects, the company is referring to the results of LIN-MD-31 which 
included the randomised withdrawal period. These results are reported in the respective chapters of 
the individual study data presentation and are not repeated here again. There appeared to be no 
rebound phenomenon, and persistence of effect is dependant on continued intake of linaclotide. The 
company also notes that withdrawal and rebound are evaluated after 3 months treatment only. It is 
made the case that – as the overall efficacy results are not different between 3 and 6 months – the 
withdrawal should also have no different effects if done after 3 or 6 months therapy. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 106/133
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP notes that the requirements of the European guidance on IBS request the documentation of 
re-treatment. It is, however, understood that, of course, the product under consideration is meant for 
continuous treatment only. However, it is clear from the safety evaluation that especially for the 
occurrence of diarrhoea, a cessation, or interruption of treatment might be necessary at times. Also, 
even if long-term treatment is the rule, patients might request a treatment free interval (“drug 
holiday”), at times when a long-term beneficial effect has been achieved. Therefore, there appears to 
be a need to also document to some extent the effects of re-treatment. 
During assessment the applicant presented updated figures showing that obviously withdrawal of 
treatment does influence treatment satisfaction in a relatively fast manner, and re-treatment does 
indeed bring the treatment satisfaction back to the levels before treatment withdrawal. The CHMP 
considers this to be overall re-assuring regarding the effects of a potential re-treatment (in case of 
treatment free intervals due to adverse events (e.g. diarrhoea) or due to any other cause. 
Supportive study(ies) 
The company has filed all clinical studies that have been conducted in the indication Chronic 
Constipation (CC) as additional supportive material. The development in this indication comprises two 
phase 2, and two phase 3 double-blind, placebo controlled studies. Because no support for clinical 
efficacy in an IBS-C population can be derived from these studies, only the safety data was relevant 
for the assessment (see section “Clinical Safety”). 
Two long-term safety studies in IBS-C patients are being conducted by the applicant, which were still 
ongoing at the time of submission of the MAA. For these two studies, only a protocol is submitted, and 
the (interim) analysis of data is included in other documents. Both studies have a duration of 78 
weeks. These safety studies consist of the following two studies.  
- 
- 
Study MCP-103-305: This study recruited patients who had completed MCP-103-303, MCP-
103-302 or any phase 2 study. It also included patients who were ineligible to take part in the 
a.m. phase 3 studies, but fulfilled the criteria for the LTS study. 
Study LIN-MD-02: This study included patients that had completed the phase 3 studies LIN-
MD01, and LIN-MD-31 or any of the phase 2 studies, and it included patients who fulfilled the 
criteria for these studies, but were not eligible for one of the two phase 3 studies. 
The inclusion criteria for these two studies specified that – apart from the “roll-over” patients (RO 
patients) as described above, the “Randomisation ineligible” patients (RI patients) can be included.  
The CHMP noted that given these criteria the inclusion for the LTS-studies is less strict, as regards the 
severity and stability of the IBS-C subgroup diagnosis (e.g. allowing only minor abdominal pain, 
allowing loose stools being present).  
The only “efficacy related parameter” that can be traced is the treatment satisfaction analysis, which is 
based on the self administration of an overall question on treatment satisfaction using a 5-point scale, 
ranging from 1 (not at all satisfied) to 5 (very satisfied). The CHMP notes that these data are of limited 
value for the evaluation as regards efficacy since treatment satisfaction measurement does not at all 
indicate whether the level of e.g. abdominal pain relief or CSBM frequency can indeed be maintained 
across longer time-periods. The data presented here cannot really contribute to the overall assessment 
of efficacy, and it is noted that long-term efficacy documentation has to solely rely on the data of the 6 
months efficacy study MCP-103-302. Moreover, the interpretation of these data is of course hampered 
by the high number of drop-outs/withdrawals (partly based on the fact of ongoing trials, but partly of 
course also based on real drop-outs, which are partly attributable (as seen in the efficacy evaluation) 
to adverse events, namely diarrhoea.  
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 107/133
 
 
 
 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The company has conducted three appropriately designed trials (1 phase 2b and 2 phase 3. All trials 
have been randomised, placebo controlled, with at least 3 months duration. All three studies were 
conducted in the USA and in Canada. All three studies used a screening period (21-28 days depending 
on the study), and a 14-17 days run-in period, during which eligibility was assessed. This is considered 
to be fully appropriate. The transfer of these data from North America to Europe is considered 
adequate based on the scientific justification presented by the applicant. The recruitment and 
finalisation of the studies was relatively fast, despite considerable size, which is, however, not 
surprising considering the prevalence of the disease. The inclusion criteria appeared to be adequate as 
regards the diagnosis of true IBS with constipation. The inclusion of the patient population was based 
on (slightly modified) Rome II criteria for IBS-C, which were partly already resembling the newly 
established Rome III criteria (as of 2006), resulting in an almost complete concordance of fulfilment of 
the Rome II and Rome III criteria in the included patient population. The included patient population is 
regarded to fully reflect a patient population suffering from IBS-C.  
It could be shown that the included patient population was suffering from frequent and severe 
symptoms, and recurrence of symptoms was immediately observed after withdrawal of the treatment. 
The applicant has also shown that the claim of treating patients with moderate and severe disease only 
is substantiated by the inclusion criteria, and the finally included study population. With the analysis of 
the data from the included patient population, and data from the scientific literature, it can be accepted 
that the included patient population indeed represents a moderately to severely affected patient 
population which requires continuous treatment. It could also be shown that – when applying a more 
updated concept of severity in IBS – the response to treatment does not differ according to severity 
and that only a minimal proportion of “mildly” diseased patients were included into the programme. 
The methods of evaluation and the choice of endpoints for the three trials, and especially the two 
phase 3 trials appear to be fully adequate. Overall there is sufficient robustness of the results across 
subgroups. 
The two phase 3 trials had different treatment durations, only one of the trials complying with the 
European requirement of documenting efficacy, for compounds meant to be used continuously, for six 
months. The other trial, which was of 3 months duration, included a randomised withdrawal period of 4 
weeks, thus documenting withdrawal and potential rebound effects. This however, means that the 
documentation of withdrawal and rebound has not been done after longer treatment periods. The 
company has provided argumentation in support of the transfer of the three-months withdrawal data 
to later time-points based on the continuing efficacy after 6 months when compared to 3 months. It is 
also argued that a differential withdrawal effect is lacking biological plausibility. This is overall and 
finally accepted, and the documentation of withdrawal after long-term treatment (of 6 or 12 months 
duration) is not regarded to be overall necessary. The fact, that only one trial has been conducted with 
the treatment duration of 6 months requires a robust demonstration of efficacy for such (single pivotal) 
trials, i.e. the need to provide overall outstanding robustness of results, and full validity of the data. 
According to the CHMP, this overall robustness of the results has clearly been shown, as indicated 
below. 
Both of the phase 3 trials have used the endpoints recommended by the European guidance on IBS, 
and were fully compliant with a Scientific Advice given earlier in the development as regards the 
endpoints. The company has also produced some validation data on the use of the NRS-scale in this 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 108/133
 
 
 
 
patient population for the dimensions abdominal pain, and abdominal discomfort. Therefore, the 
chosen primary endpoints (Abdominal pain/discomfort responder and IBS Degree of Relief responder) 
are overall considered to be fully appropriate. A wealth of secondary endpoints have been investigated, 
including several levels of response in the different dimensions, including 4 co-primary endpoints 
requested by the FDA (which were different from the European primary endpoints), and including the 
evaluation of Quality of Life, which is compliant with the requirements of the IBS PtC stating that QoL 
has to be regarded a “main secondary” endpoint. Both studies are based on sound statistical planning 
and evaluation, including the drawing up of different Statistical Analysis Plans for the US and Europe. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
In the dose-range-finding study, a relatively clear dose-response relationship could be seen with 
consistently statistically significantly superior effects for the two higher doses compared to placebo, 
whereas the two lower doses were clearly less successful. The fact that in this exploratory study the 
efficacy endpoints were not completely in line with the European regulatory requirements is regarded 
acceptable. It is noted that the final choice of dose for phase 3 was, however, not only based on the 
efficacy evaluation, but on safety also, which revealed a clearly higher rate of safety related events in 
the highest dose group, making the choice of the 290 µg dose to be investigated in phase 3 completely 
reasonable. It is therefore concluded that indeed, strong phase 2 data are available for the compound, 
which contributes to the overall robustness of the data. 
Both phase 3 studies have yielded highly significant results as regards the superiority of linaclotide 
over placebo, in the co-primary required by the European guidance. In addition, the primary endpoints 
according to the American requirements as well as a multitude of secondary endpoints were 
statistically significant. It is noted that 6-months data are presented that appear to confirm the efficacy 
already achieved after three months, without decreasing effects. This comprised responder analyses, 
as well as the evaluation of “continuous” endpoints, investigating the main features of IBS-C, mainly 
abdominal pain and discomfort, as well as a variety of parameters investigating the associated bowel 
movement irregularities. Taken together the available data from the two studies individually, the 
pooled data, as well as the various sub-group analyses, the efficacy demonstration is considered very 
robust. 
Clinical relevance of the results has been shown, however, it is pointed out that there are regularly 
about 50% of the patient population that do not fully respond to the treatment. In that sense, the 
SmPC was revised to include advises physicians that if patients have not experienced improvement in 
their symptoms after 4 weeks of treatment, the patient should be re-examined and the benefits and 
risks of continuing treatment reconsidered. 
Relevant differences in the changes of Quality of Life parameters have also been shown. The results of 
the three months evaluation are also highly consistent across the two studies conducted in phase 3, 
and the pooled analyses of these results only confirmed what has been shown for the single studies.  
The analysis across relevant subgroups of patients, which were represented in the studies in lower 
numbers only, such as men, the elderly, and ethnic minorities, have – due to the lower numbers and 
the increased variability – partly resulted in more inconsistent results. However, beneficial effects could 
be shown in all subgroups, and the previously missing subgroup results on the 6-months evaluation 
have also been shown. In case of the even more inconsistent results in the elderly population a 
satisfactory explanation was found and appropriate statements for a more careful and repeated 
evaluation of the risk-benefit ratio during treatment in this patient population is included into the 
SmPC.The available data from study LIN-MD-31 support that a rebound effect can be excluded. In 
patients switched from placebo to active a relatively rapid response can be achieved which is almost 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 109/133
 
 
 
 
similar to the response achieved after 3 months (and 4 months) treatment. Patients being randomised 
to placebo from active treatment experience a deterioration, but remain on a higher level of response 
than at baseline.  
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The company has shown overall highly statistically significant superiority in the treatment of IBS-C 
with linaclotide over placebo, and the database for the claimed long-term continuous treatment 
approach is considered to be sufficiently large. Strong consistency of results and of statistical 
significance has been shown across two trials, and across a huge variety of endpoints, including 
improvement of Quality of Life. Acceptable consistency has also been shown across patients’ 
subgroups. Clinical relevance of the results has been shown. The overall documentation of efficacy is 
considered to be satisfactory. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
The clinical safety of linaclotide has been investigated in 13 clinical studies. Of these, there were 3 
studies in healthy volunteers (comprising 22 placebo, and 75 linaclotide treated subjects) and 10 
studies in 4,370 patients with either CC or IBS-C (2753 IBS-C patients, and 1627 CC patients). 
Table 74: Number of patients exposed to linaclotide in the overall clinical programme 
Protocol number 
Number of Patients 
Placebo 
< 
145 
145 
Linaclotide, µg/day 
> 
290 
290 
Phase 3 Placebo-Controlled Trials (Group 1) 
IBS-C Patients 
LIN-MD-31 (up to 12 weeks) 
MCP-103-302 (up to 26 weeks) 
IBS-C Subtotal (Treatment Period) 
CC Patients 
LIN-MD-01 (up to 12 weeks) 
MCP-103-303 (up to 12 weeks) 
CC Subtotal (Treatment Period) 
Placebo-controlled Phase 3 Total 
(Treatment Period) 
395 
403 
798 
215 
208 
423 
1218 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
213 
217 
430 
430 
405 
402 
807 
205 
217 
422 
1227 
Placebo-Controlled Phase 2 Studies  
IBS-C Patients 
MCP-103-005 (5 days) 
MCP-103-202 (up to 12 weeks) 
IBS-C Subtotal 
CC Patients (Group 2) 
MCP-103-004 (up to 2 weeks) 
MCP-103-201 (up to 4 weeks) 
CC Subtotal 
12 
85 
97 
10 
69 
79 
12 
79 
91 
12 
59 
71 
— 
82 
82 
— 
56 
56 
— 
85 
85 
10 
62 
72 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
12 
89 
101 
10 
63 
73 
Placebo-controlled Phase 2 total 
176 
162 
138 
157 
174 
Open-Label Phase 3 Studies (Group 3) 
IBS-C Patients 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Any 
dose 
405 
402 
807 
418 
434 
852 
1657 
24 
335 
359 
32 
240 
272 
631 
Page 110/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LIN-MD-02  
MCP-103-305  
IBS-C Subtotal 
Number of Patients 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
1029 
1117 
2146 
— 
— 
— 
1029 
1117 
2146 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 111/133
 
 
 
 
CC Patients 
LIN-MD-02  
MCP-103-305  
CC Subtotal 
LTS Study Total 
Number of Patients 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
523 
606 
1129 
3270 
All Linaclotide Patients (Group 4)a 
IBS-C Patients 
CC Patients 
— 
— 
91 
71 
Total Number of Patients 
1394 
162 
2609b 
1519c 
4128 
— 
— 
— 
— 
101 
73 
174 
523 
606 
1129 
3270 
2753 
1627 
4370 
In Group 3, patients were required to start treatment at 290 µg but could downtitrate to 145 µg for 
intolerable AEs. 
a  Patients could be counted in more than one dose group in Group 4. 
b 
c 
Includes 2493 patients from a Phase 3 study and 116 patients from a Phase 2 study  
Includes 1424 patients from a Phase 3 study and 95 patients from a Phase 2 study  
Of these total number of patients, 631 were treated with linaclotide in placebo-controlled phase 2 
studies, including 359 patients with IBS-C, and 272 patients with CC with a treatment duration 
between 5 days and 12 weeks. The placebo-controlled phase 3 studies comprised 807 patients in the 
IBS-C indication, and 852 patients with CC treated with linaclotide, with treatment duration between 
3 months and 6 months. Two open-label safety studies have included 3,270 patients altogether, of 
which 1,129 were defined as suffering from CC, and 2,146 patients defined as suffering from IBS-C. 
These two latter studies include patients being rolled over from some of the phase 2 studies, and from 
the phase 3 studies, as well as patients that were not completely fulfilling the inclusion criteria in the 
double-blind phase 3 studies during the run-in periods (but otherwise complied with inclusion criteria 
as regards the history of the disease). 
As regards the duration of treatment, the following table reflects the total exposure according to 
different categories of treatment duration, indication, and dose groups (in the CC studies only). 
Table 75: Patient exposure to linaclotide in phase 3 placebo-controlled trials (both 
indications; safety population. 
Exposure 
IBS-C Patients 
CC Patients 
Placebo 
(N = 
798) 
Linaclotide 
290 µg 
 (N =807) 
Placebo 
(N = 
423) 
Treatment duration, days 
Linaclotide 
145 µg 
(N = 430) 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min, Max 
116.0 
111.8 
56.5 
87.0 
58.5 
86.0 
79.0 
18.2 
85.0 
77.5 
20.2 
85.0 
CC + IBS-C Patients 
Placebo 
(N = 
1218) 
Linaclotide 
(N = 
1657) 
103.3 
50.1 
85.0 
93.9 
46.7 
85.0 
290 µg 
(N = 
422) 
76.7 
21.1 
85.0 
1, 195 
1, 212 
5, 104 
1, 102 
1, 111 
1, 195 
1, 212 
Treatment duration, n (%) 
≥ 1 day 
≥ 7 days 
≥ 14 days 
≥ 30 days 
798 
(100) 
791 
(99.1) 
774 
(97.0) 
735 
(92.1) 
807 (100) 
792 (98.1) 
778 (96.4) 
731 (90.6) 
423 
(100) 
421 
(99.5) 
418 
(98.8) 
398 
(94.1) 
430 (100) 
424 (98.6) 
415 (96.5) 
400 (93.0) 
422 
(100) 
412 
(97.6) 
405 
(96.0) 
392 
(92.9) 
1218 
(100) 
1209 
(99.3) 
1189 
(97.6) 
1130 
(92.8) 
1657 
(100) 
1626 
(98.1) 
1596 
(96.3) 
1521 
(91.8) 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 112/133
 
 
 
 
 
≥ 60 days 
≥ 90 days 
≥ 120 days 
≥ 150 days 
≥ 180 days 
Patient-
years 
696 
(87.2) 
357 
(44.7) 
319 
(40.0) 
309 
(38.7) 
285 
(35.7) 
253.5 
IBS-C Patients 
670 (83.0) 
376 
(88.9) 
CC Patients 
372 (86.5) 
CC + IBS-C Patients 
364 
(86.3) 
1070 
(87.8) 
1404 
(84.7) 
335 (41.5)  25 (5.9) 
20 (4.7) 
14 (3.3) 
382 (31.4)  368 (22.2) 
307 (38.0) 
299 (37.1) 
272 (33.7) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
319 (26.2)  306 (18.5) 
309 (25.4)  298 (18.0) 
285 (23.4)  271 (16.4) 
247.0 
91.5 
91.2 
88.7 
344.4 
426.1 
CC Trials: LIN-MD-01 (Treatment Period = 84 days) and MCP-103-303 (Treatment Period = 84 days); 
IBS-C Trials: LIN-MD-31 (Treatment Period = 84 days) and MCP-103-302 (Treatment Period = 182 
days).  
CC = chronic constipation; IBS-C = irritable bowel syndrome with constipation 
In the placebo controlled trials, 1,404 patients have been treated longer than 60 days (670 IBS-C, and 
736 in CC) 335 and 34 (in the IBS-C and CC indication) have been treated longer than 90 days, and 
272 in IBS-C have been treated longer than 180 days. In the LTS-studies (with the original data cut-off 
October 2010), mean duration of treatment was 200.4 days in the IBS-C, and 359.4 days in the CC 
patients, with 269 IBS-C and 715 CC patients being treated for longer than 360 days at the time of 
data lock.  
A similar table is presented for the LTS-studies, shown in the following table: 
Table 76: Patient exposure to linaclotide in the phase 3 open-label LTS-studies (safety 
population): 
IBS-C 
(N = 2146) 
CC 
(N = 1129) 
IBS-C + CC 
(N = 3270) 
Treatment duration, days 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min, Max 
Treatment duration, n (%) 
≥ 1 day 
≥ 7 days 
≥ 30 days 
≥ 60 days 
≥ 120 days 
≥ 180 days 
≥ 240 days 
≥ 360 days 
≥ 540 days 
Patient-years 
200.3 
129.4 
196.0 
1, 562 
2146 (100) 
2101 (97.9) 
1980 (92.3) 
1773 (82.6) 
1486 (69.2) 
1188 (55.4) 
702 (32.7) 
269 (12.5) 
68 (3.2) 
1177 
359.4 
190.6 
453.0 
1, 570 
1129 (100) 
1115 (98.8) 
1063 (94.2) 
975 (86.4) 
891 (78.9) 
853 (75.6) 
798 (70.7) 
715 (63.3) 
220 (19.5) 
1111 
255.3 
170.9 
223.0 
1, 570 
3270 (100) 
3211 (98.2) 
3038 (92.9) 
2743 (83.9) 
2373 (72.6) 
2039 (62.4) 
1499 (45.8) 
984 (30.1) 
288 (8.8) 
2285 
Studies: LIN-MD-02 and MCP-103-305 (cut-off date of 11-Oct-2010). 
CC = chronic constipation; IBS-C = irritable bowel syndrome with constipation 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 113/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The overall exposure for “Group 4” sums up to 2,753 patients in the IBS-C population, and 1,627 CC 
patients in the CC population that were exposed to linaclotide. The mean treatment duration was 199.9 
days for IBS-C, and 298.8 for CC. The number of patients treated for longer than 360 days therefore 
sums up to 416 in the IBS-C indication, and 745 in the CC indication. 
During the assessment the applicant submitted an update of the Summary of Safety, which includes an 
update on the LTSs with data included until June 2011. It is stated that this includes 88% of the total 
exposure to be expected, which is a reasonable number and time to base the overall assessment upon. 
At the new data cut-off point, an additional 63 years of exposure and 746 patients years to linaclotide 
in the CC and IBS-C population, respectively were recorded. The mean duration of treatment was 
therefore 312.9 days in the CC population, and 298.9 days in the IBS-C population. Of these, 750 CC 
patients, and 1293 IBS-C patients have been treated for longer than one year. After reviewing the 
update of the ISS, and the look at the additional events reported, CHMP considered that the additional 
data submitted did not generally alter the initially shown safety profile. 
Adverse events  
During the placebo-controlled trials in IBS-C, about 55% and 61% of the patients in the placebo and 
linaclotide groups experienced adverse events. The most common adverse events in these trials were 
related to the gastrointestinal tract, the most frequent being diarrhoea, abdominal pain, flatulence, 
headache, viral gastroenteritis, and abdominal distension. This was also reflected in the evaluation of 
events that were considered to be treatment related by the investigators. The evaluation of the 
company is shown in the following table: 
Table 12: Treatment-emergent adverse events reported in ≥2% of linaclotide IBS-C patients 
in the phase 3 placebo-controlled trials and with an incidence greater than placebo. 
Adverse Event 
(Preferred Term) 
Any TEAE 
Diarrhoea 
Abdominal pain 
Flatulence 
Headache 
Gastroenteritis viral 
Abdominal distension 
Number (%) of Patients 
Placebo 
(N = 798 ) 
Linaclotide 290µg/day 
(N = 807) 
438 (54.9) 
24 (3.0) 
26 (3.3) 
15 (1.9) 
25 (3.1) 
11 (1.4) 
9 (1.1) 
491 (60.8) 
160 (19.8) 
41 (5.1) 
35 (4.3) 
33 (4.1) 
21 (2.6) 
18 (2.2) 
A more complete evaluation of the double-blind studies in IBS-C is shown in the following table. 
patients: 
Table 13: Incidence of TEAEs by treatment group and preferred term reported in more than 
1%, Study LIN-MD-31 and Study MCP-103-302; Safety population. 
Adverse Event 
(Preferred Term) 
Any TEAE 
Diarrhoea 
Abdominal pain 
Nausea 
Sinusitis 
Upper Respiratory tract infection 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Pooled Dataa 
Placebo 
Placebo 
(N=403) 
MCP-103-302 
Linaclotide 
290µg 
(N=402) 
LIN-MD-31 
Number (%) of Patients  Number (%) of Patients  Number (%) of Patients 
Linaclotide 
Linaclotide 
290µg 
290µg 
(N = 807) 
(N = 798 ) 
(N = 406) 
228 (56.2)  438 (54.9)  491 (60.8) 
160 (19.8) 
24 (3.0) 
41 (5.1) 
26 (3.3) 
40 (5.0) 
44 (5.5) 
35 (4.3) 
43 (5.4) 
35 (4.3) 
36 (4.5) 
(N = 396 ) 
210 (53) 
14 (3.5) 
10 (2.5) 
20 (5.1) 
15 (3.8) 
14 (3.5) 
79 (19.5) 
22 (5.4) 
17 (4.2) 
12 (3.0) 
13 (3.2) 
79 (19.7) 
18 (4.5) 
23 (5.7) 
23 (5.7) 
22 (5.5) 
10 (2.5) 
16 (4.0) 
24 (6.0) 
28 (6.9) 
22 (5.5) 
228 (56.6)  263 (65.4) 
Placebo 
Page 114/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MCP-103-302 
LIN-MD-31 
Pooled Dataa 
Flatulence 
Headache 
Urinary Tract Infection 
Gastroenteritis viral 
Abdominal distension 
Nasopharyngitis 
Influenza 
Vomiting 
Fatigue 
Sinus congestion 
Vulvovaginal mycotic infection 
Gastroesophageal reflux disease 
Dyspepsia 
Bronchitis 
Muscle strain 
Abdominal Pain Upper 
Cough 
Dizziness 
Oropharyngeal pain 
Anxiety 
Contusion 
Arthralgia 
Gastro intestinal sounds abnormal 
Rash 
Neck Pain 
Weight increased 
Insomnia 
Oedema peripheral 
Seasonal Allergy 
Depression 
Toothache 
Back Pain 
Hypertension 
Defaecation urgency 
Influenza like illness 
Pyrexia 
Hypothyroidism 
Pharyngitis streptococcal 
Joint Sprain 
Muscle spasm 
Decreased Appetite 
Alopecia 
Haemorrhoids 
Blood potassium increased 
Arthritis 
Chest Pain 
Abdominal tenderness 
Migraine 
Dysuria 
Constipation 
Weight decreased 
Myalgia 
Pollakiuria 
Procedural pain 
Joint swelling 
9 (2.2) 
11 (2.7) 
22 (5.5) 
9 (2.2) 
6 (1.5) 
16 (4.0) 
13 (3.2) 
7 (1.7) 
4 (1.0) 
4 (1.0) 
6 (1.5) 
6 (1.5) 
7 (1.7) 
10 (2.5) 
1 (0.2) 
6 (1.5) 
8 (2.0) 
3 (0.7) 
7 (1.7) 
8 (2.0) 
2 (0.5) 
5 (1.2) 
0 
4 (1.0) 
1 (0.2) 
5 (1.2) 
8 (2.0) 
5 (1.2) 
3 (0.7) 
5 (1.2) 
1 (0.2) 
12 (3.0) 
9 (2.2) 
0 
1 (0.2) 
5 (1.2) 
1 (0.2) 
4 (1.0) 
1 (0.2) 
4 (1.0) 
0 
0 
4 (1.0) 
1 (0.2) 
0 
4 (1.0) 
7 (1.7) 
7 (1.7) 
4 (1.0) 
7 (1.7) 
5 (1.2) 
4 (1.0) 
0 
2 (0.5) 
2 (0.5) 
15 (3.7) 
13 (3.2) 
17 (4.2) 
15 (3.7) 
9 (2.2) 
11 (2.7) 
7 (1.7) 
8 (2.0) 
8 (2.0) 
8 (2.0) 
7 (1.7) 
9 (2.2) 
6 (1.5) 
6 (1.5) 
5 (1.2) 
4 (1.0) 
3 (0.7) 
3 (0.7) 
6 (1.5) 
5 (1.2) 
3 (0.7) 
5 (1.2) 
4 (1.0) 
3 (0.7) 
5 (1.2) 
4 (1.0) 
4 (1.0) 
2 (0.5) 
6 (1.5) 
6 (1.5) 
4 (1.0) 
3 (0.7) 
3 (0.7) 
1 (0.2) 
4 (1.0) 
4 (1.0) 
4 (1.0) 
2 (0.5) 
4 (1.0) 
3 (0.7) 
4 (1.0) 
1 (0.2) 
4 (1.0) 
4 (1.0) 
4 (1.0) 
2 (0.5) 
3 (0.7) 
1 (0.2) 
2 (0.5) 
2 (0.5) 
2 (0.5) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.2) 
2 (0.5) 
0 
6 (1.5) 
14 (3.5) 
9 (2.3) 
2 (0.5) 
3 (0.8) 
13 (3.3) 
9 (2.3) 
3 (0.8) 
7 (1.8) 
3 (0.8) 
2 (0.5) 
1 (0.3) 
4 (1.0) 
6 (1.5) 
3 (0.8) 
6 (1.5) 
4 (1.0) 
7 (1.8) 
4 (1.0) 
4 (1.0) 
2 (0.5) 
4 (1.0) 
0 
4 (1.0) 
0 
2 (0.5) 
1 (0.3) 
2 (0.5) 
0 
3 (0.8) 
1 (0.3) 
3 (0.8) 
1 (0.3) 
3 (0.8) 
0 
2 (0.5) 
0 
4 (1.0) 
0 
2 (0.5) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
2 (0.5) 
0 
0 
0 
4 (1.0) 
1 (0.3) 
0 
2 (0.5) 
0 
3 (0.8) 
5 (1.3) 
5 (1.3) 
4 (1.0) 
20 (4.9) 
20 (4.9) 
7 (1.7) 
6 (1.5) 
9 (2.2) 
6 (1.5) 
9 (2.2) 
6 (1.5) 
4 (1.0) 
4 (1.0) 
3 (0.7) 
1 (0.2) 
4 (1.0) 
4 (1.0) 
5 (1.2) 
6 (1.5) 
7 (1.7) 
7 (1.7) 
3 (0.7) 
4 (1.0) 
5 (1.2) 
3 (0.7) 
4 (1.0) 
5 (1.2) 
2 (0.5) 
3 (0.7) 
3 (0.7) 
5 (1.2) 
0 
0 
2 (0.5) 
3 (0.7) 
3 (0.7) 
5 (1.2) 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.2) 
0 
3 (0.7) 
1 (0.2) 
2 (0.5) 
1(0.2) 
4 (1.0) 
0 
0 
0 
2 (0.5) 
0 
2 (0.5) 
1 (0.2) 
0 
0 
1 (0.2) 
1 (0.2) 
0 
1 (0.2) 
15 (1.9) 
25 (3.1) 
31 (3.9) 
11 (1.4) 
9 (1.1) 
29 (3.6) 
22 (2.8) 
10 (1.3) 
11 (1.4) 
7 (0.9) 
8 (1.0) 
7 (0.9) 
11 (1.4) 
16 (2.0) 
4 (0.5) 
12 (1.5) 
12 (1.5) 
10 (1.3) 
11 (1.4) 
12 (1.5) 
4 (0.5) 
9 (1.1) 
1 (0.1) 
8 (1.0) 
1 (0.1) 
7 (0.9) 
9 (1.1) 
7 (0.9) 
3 (0.4) 
8 (1.0) 
2 (0.3) 
15 (1.9) 
10 (1.3) 
3 (0.4) 
1 (0.1) 
7 (0.9) 
1 (0.1) 
8 (1.0) 
1 (0.1) 
6 (0.8) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
6 (0.8) 
1 (0.1) 
0 
4 (0.5) 
11 (1.4) 
8 (1.0) 
4 (0.5) 
9 (1.1) 
5 (0.6) 
7 (0.9) 
5 (0.6) 
7 (0.9) 
6 (0.8) 
35 (4.3) 
33 (4.1) 
24 (3.0) 
21 (2.6) 
18 (2.2) 
17 (2.1) 
16 (2.0) 
14 (1.7) 
12 (1.5) 
12 (1.5) 
10 (1.2) 
10 (1.2) 
10 (1.2) 
10 (1.2) 
10 (1.2) 
10 (1.2) 
10 (1.2) 
10 (1.2) 
9 (1.1) 
9 (1.1) 
8 (1.0) 
8 (1.0) 
8 (1.0) 
8 (1.0) 
7 (0.9) 
7 (0.9) 
7 (0.9) 
7 (0.9) 
6 (0.7) 
6 (0.7) 
6 (0.7) 
6 (0.7) 
6 (0.7) 
6 (0.7) 
5 (0.6) 
5 (0.6) 
5 (0.6) 
5 (0.6) 
5 (0.6) 
5 (0.6) 
5 (0.6) 
5 (0.6)  
4 (0.5) 
4 (0.5) 
4 (0.5) 
4 (0.5) 
3 (0.4) 
3 (0.4) 
3 (0.4) 
2 (0.2) 
2 (0.2) 
2 (0.2) 
2 (0.2) 
2 (0.2) 
1 (0.1) 
According to this analysis and after the evaluation of the material of the data provided during the 
assessment, additional events to be included into the SPC had to be discussed. The company was able 
to show that the increased frequency for the AEs headache, sinus congestion, neck pain, toothache, 
influenza like illness, hypothyroidism, and joint sprain would not justify the inclusion into chapter 4.8 
of the SPC.  
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 115/133
 
 
 
 
 
Additionally, as a consequence of diarrhoea – the adverse events hypokalaemia, low bicarbonate, 
dehydration, dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, and decreased appetite, have been included in the list 
of undesirable effects in the SmPC, based on slightly higher occurrence in the linclotide treated 
patients, the assessment of relatedness by the investigators, and the plausibility of the occurrence 
considering the mode of action and potential consequences of diarrhoea. 
A quite similar profile of adverse events is reported in the phase 2, and the CC phase 3 studies. 
During the LTS studies, the most frequent adverse events were again events related to the 
gastrointestinal tract, and obviously to the laxative effects of the compound, such as diarrhoea, 
abdominal pain, nausea and flatulence, however, the most frequent events also comprised urinary 
tract infections, and sinusitis. The evaluation of relatedness produced again diarrhoea, abdominal pain, 
flatulence, abdominal distension, and nausea to be the most frequent events. Similar profiles were 
observed in IBS-C and CC patients. The most frequent events from the LTS-studies are shown in the 
following table (with a threshold of 1.5%, taken from the updated Summary of Safety with data cut-off 
June 2011).  
Table 14: TEAEs reported in ≥1.5% of all IBS-C or CC patients in the phase 3 open-label 
long-term safety studies (group 3) Safety Population: 
Adverse Event 
(Preferred Term) 
Any TEAE 
Diarrhoea 
Sinusitis 
Urinary tract infection 
Abdominal pain 
Upper Respiratory tract 
infection 
Nausea 
Headache 
Abdominal Distension 
Flatulence 
Nasopharyngitis 
Bronchitis 
Constipation 
Back pain 
Gastroenteritis Viral 
Arthralgia 
Anxiety 
Influenza 
Gastrooesophageal reflux 
disease 
Hypertension 
Abdominal pain Upper 
Vomiting  
Depression 
Procedural Pain 
Dizziness 
Fatigue 
Defaecation Urgency 
Cough 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Total IBS-C 
(N = 2147) 
1554 (72.4) 
693 (32.3) 
137 (6.4) 
127 (5.9) 
135 (6.3) 
119 (5.5) 
Number (%) of Patients 
Total CC 
(N = 1129) 
849 (75.2) 
358 (31.7) 
71 (6.3) 
72 (6.4) 
58 (5.1) 
58 (5.1) 
Total patients 
 (N = 3271) 
2401 (73.4) 
1051 (32.1) 
208 (6.4) 
199 (6.1) 
193 (5.9) 
177 (5.4) 
105 (4.9) 
82 (3.8) 
78 (3.6) 
66 (3.1) 
70 (3.3) 
58 (2.7) 
76 (3.5) 
56 (2.6) 
52 (2.4) 
50 (2.3) 
52 (2.4) 
45 (2.1) 
44 (2.0) 
41 (1.9) 
31 (1.4) 
43 (2.0) 
42 (2.0) 
29 (1.4) 
27 (1.3) 
34 (1.6) 
39 (1.8) 
34 (1.6) 
64 (5.7) 
54 (4.8) 
48 (4.3) 
60 (5.3) 
33 (2.9) 
43 (3.8) 
24 (2.1) 
36 (3.2) 
25 (2.2) 
27 (2.4) 
23 (2.0) 
26 (2.3) 
23 (2.0) 
26 (2.3) 
34 (3.0) 
20 (1.8) 
21 (1.9) 
27 (2.4) 
18 (1.6) 
17 (1.5) 
10 (0.9) 
14 (1.2) 
169 (5.2) 
136 (4.2) 
126 (3.9) 
126 (3.9) 
103 (3.1) 
101 (3.1) 
100 (3.1) 
92 (2.8) 
77 (2.4) 
77 (2.4) 
75 (2.3) 
71 (2.2) 
67 (2.0) 
67 (2.0) 
65 (2.0) 
63 (1.9) 
63 (1.9) 
56 (1.7) 
45 (1.4) 
50 (1.5) 
49 (1.5) 
48 (1.5) 
Page 116/133
 
 
 
 
  
Haemorrhoids 
Dyspepsia 
Vulvovaginal mycotic 
infection 
Weight increase 
Abdominal Discomfort 
Muscle Spasms 
Abdminal Pain Lower 
Pain in extremity 
Vertigo 
23 (1.1) 
31 (1.4) 
27 (1.3) 
21 (1.0) 
13 (0.6) 
21 (1.0) 
25 (1.2) 
23 (1.1) 
20 (0.9) 
Number (%) of Patients 
25 (2.2) 
15 (1.3) 
16 (1.4) 
48 (1.5) 
46 (1.4) 
43 (1.3) 
17 (1.5) 
23 (2.0) 
14 (1.2) 
8 (0.7) 
18 (1.6) 
5 (0.4) 
38 (1.2) 
36 (1.1) 
35 (1.1) 
33 (1.0) 
41 (1.3) 
25 (0.8) 
Most events in both indications, and in both the placebo-controlled and the LTS-studies were 
considered to be mild or moderate in severity only, with only about 1/6  of the events being severe in 
nature overall. 
The evaluation of the onset of events produced a continuous reduction of adverse events over time 
with the highest frequencies shown at the beginning of the treatment. However, this is obviously partly 
an effect of discontinuations of patients due to the adverse events (especially those related to 
diarrhoea).  
The company presents 4 different “events of interest”, namely diarrhoea, the potential consequences 
of diarrhoea (dehydration, dizziness, and hypotension), gallbladder disease (related to a relatively high 
frequency in one of the LTS-studies), hypersensitivity, and aplastic anaemia (1 case documented). 
Regarding diarrhoea, the company makes the case that the frequency and severity of diarrhoea is 
decreasing with ongoing treatment. This statement is finally accepted after re-analysis. Regarding 
diarrhoea it has also been shown that the frequency of diarrhoea is highest among the elderly 
population. Also – this being a more vulnerable population – the concurrence of diarrhoea and its 
consequences (hypokalaemia, low bicarbonate, dehydration, dizziness, and orthostatic hypotension) 
might be more frequent or more severe. Appropriate statements have been included into the SmPC. 
Regarding dehydration, there is no hint of an association of dehydration with diarrhoea in the IBS-C 
population, whereas this association appears likely from the evaluation of the CC double-blind 
population. There was one case of diarrhoea associated with dehydration and orthostatic hypotension. 
Similar results are given for dizziness, and for orthostatic hypotension. It is concluded that an 
association of diarrhoea with clinically more relevant consequences such as dizziness, dehydration, and 
orthostatic hypotension is rare but appears to be likely (this is appropriately reflected in the SmPC). 
Regarding gallbladder disease, the phase 3 double-blind studies did not suggest an increased 
occurrence of such events. The company substantiated that within the IBS-C population, where an 
increased incidence of gallstones has been reported overall, the incidence rate compared to a 
population not treated with linaclotide is most likely not increased. 
The company has furthermore substantiated that a causal association with the occurrence of aplastic 
anaemia in one patient treated with linaclotide does not exist. The company has evaluated the 
occurrence of haematology related events, namely low neutrophil counts, low platelet counts, and 
decreased haemoglobin, which revealed a slightly higher incidence for these events for linaclotide as 
compared to placebo. However, the follow-up of these patients made a causal association with 
(suspected early effects in the development of bone marrow aplasia) these events unlikely, as the vast 
majority of patients were later continuously treated with linaclotide without further events, or with 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 117/133
 
 
 
 
  
 
normalisation of the laboratory values. It is concluded that there appears to be no suspicion of a causal 
relationship with aplastic anaemia/pancytopenia with the administration of linaclotide.  
The incidence of TEAEs during clinical development of linaclotide that could potentially be related to 
immunogenic potential (i.e.: hypersensitivity, rash, pruritus, urticaria, asthma) was generally similar in 
the linaclotide and placebo groups. Linaclotide has a molecular weight of 1526 Da, which is below the 
generally accepted threshold for immunogenicity risk (≥10,000 Da). 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
7 patients died during the course of the studies, which were all treated with linaclotide except one 
patient who died before receiving first dose of study drug. However, after evaluation of the patient 
narratives, it appears that none of the deaths can be causally attributed to the intake of linaclotide. 
Table 89: List of patients who died in the linaclotide clinical development programme 
(Safety Population) 
Study/Patient No 
Age, 
y/ 
Sex 
Indication/ 
Treatment 
Day of 
Onset 
of 
Fatal 
SAEa 
Day of 
Death 
SAE Preferred Term 
LIN-MD-31/ 
0153115 
LIN/MD-01/ 
0090105 
LIN-MD-01/ 
0160101e 
MCP-103-305/ 
0872010 
MCP-103-305/ 
292004 
MCP-103-305/ 
1033022b 
MCP-103-305/ 
0093022 
Group 1 (Phase 3 Trials) 
54/M 
IBS-C/ 
Pre 
Randomization 
NA 
NA 
Cardiopulmonary arrest 
and ventricular fibrillationd 
66/F 
CC/Linaclotide 
8 
49/F 
CC/Linaclotide 
52 
98 
52 
Group 3 (LTS Studies) 
36/F 
40/F 
IBS-C/ 
Linaclotide 
IBS-C/ 
Linaclotide 
123 
123 
351 
351 
48/M 
CC/Linaclotide 
383 
391 
Pancreatic carcinoma 
Drug toxicity 
(Fentanyl) 
Drug toxicity 
(Morphinec) 
Drug toxicity 
(Morphine and alprozolam) 
Esophageal squamous cell 
cancer stage IV 
68/M 
CC/Linaclotide 
97 
97 
Multiple injuries 
The number of serious adverse events (SAEs) has been low during the placebo-controlled phase 3 
trials in IBS-C, with 9 and 6 events in the placebo and linaclotide groups. None of these events 
occurred in more than one patient. Therefore, it appears that no clear conclusion can currently be 
drawn on the occurrence of SAEs, and a causative relation to the intake of linaclotide appears to be 
unlikely. The occurrence of SAEs was also low in the CC placebo-controlled studies, and also none of 
the events occurring in more than one patient. 
Table 90: Incidence of on-therapy serious adverse events in IBS-C patients in the phase 3 
placebo-controlled trials (group 2) – Safety Population 
System Organ Class 
Preferred Term 
Any SAE 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Number (%) of Patients 
Placebo 
(N =798) 
9 (1.1) 
Linaclotide 290 µg/day 
(N = 807) 
6 (0.7) 
Page 118/133
 
 
 
 
 
CARDIAC DISORDERS 
Pericardial effusion 
Pericarditis 
EAR AND LABYRINTH DISORDERS 
Vertigo 
GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS 
Abdominal pain lower 
Duodenitis 
Hiatus hernia 
Oesophagitis 
HEPATOBILIARY DISORDERS 
Cholecystitis chronic 
INFECTIONS AND INFESTATIONS 
Appendicitis 
Bronchitis 
Gastroenteritis 
Pneumonia viral 
Urinary tract infection 
MUSCULOSKELETAL AND CONNECTIVE TISSUE 
DISORDERS 
Rotator cuff syndrome 
NEOPLASMS BENIGN, MALIGNANT AND 
UNSPECIFIED 
Number (%) of Patients 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
2 (0.3) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
2 (0.3) 
0 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (01) 
1 (0.1) 
0 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.1) 
0 
2 (0.3) 
Hodgkin’s disease nodular sclerosis stage 
0 
IV 
Rectal cancer stage IV 
Uterine leiomyoma 
NERVOUS SYSTEM DISORDERS 
Transient ischemic attack 
RENAL AND URINARY DISORDERS 
Renal cyst 
RESPIRATORY, THORACIC AND MEDIASTINAL 
DISORDERS 
Asthma 
SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE DISORDERS 
Angioedema 
SURGICAL AND MEDICAL PROCEDURES 
Cystopexy 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
0 
0 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
0 
0 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
0 
0 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
During the LTS-studies, almost 4% of the patients experienced SAEs, the most common being 
cholelithiasis, chest pain, breast cancer, back pain, osteoarthritis, fall, syncope, biliary dyskinesia, and 
uterine prolapse without differences between the IBS-C and CC patients.  
Laboratory findings 
No relevant influence of linaclotide was found on laboratory parameters such as blood cell parameters, 
and clinical chemistry, including parameters related to electrolyte, water, and bicarbonate balance. 
However, as a consequence of diarrhoea, possible electrolyte dysbalances especially in elderly patient 
are reflected in the SmPC and included as an important identified risk in the RMP. Furthermore a PASS 
is planned with a safety endpoint specifically addressing complications of diarrhoea. 
The evaluation of vital signs, and ECGs did not reveal any abnormalities. The ECG evaluation also 
comprised an extended evaluation (“triplicate ECG programme”) in a controlled manner to exclude 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 119/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
effects on QT, which was considered appropriate to replace a TQT study due to the nature of the 
compound and the results of the pre-clinical investigations. No relevant influence could be found. 
Safety in special populations 
The evaluation of adverse events in subgroups, such as age, gender, race, and BMI revealed that there 
were no relevant differences in the adverse event profile for gender, race, and BMI. However, it could 
be shown that elderly patients appear to be more prone to the gastrointestinal effects, at least to 
diarrhoea as such (without the presumed “accompanying” symptoms abdominal pain, flatulence, etc). 
For the elderly, also the percentage of severe events was higher. These results were consistently 
shown in IBS-C, as well as in CC patients. The SmPC labels clearly that special attention should be 
given to these patients. 
As regards the overall documentation of safety in the elderly population, as well as for the male 
population, the reported patient numbers are relatively low. The safety in the elderly population will 
continuously monitored in a planned PASS.  
No differentiation of the adverse event profile was seen for the exploration of underlying disease 
subgroups, such as patients suffering from diabetes, CV-disease, and hypertension. However, as these 
patients are prone to a disturbance of water or electrolyte balance following diarrhoea the SmPC 
mentions that electrolyte control should be considered in these patients. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
To address the lack of drug-drug interaction studies due to the low or completely missing blood levels 
of linaclotide, respective subgroups of patients with concomitant medication subgroups were 
evaluated. In the case of antidepressants/SSRIs this evaluation revealed an overall higher occurrence 
in the non-gastrointestinal and non-diarrhoea related GI adverse events, which has been further 
explored. The company presented the additional analysis of GI events other than diarrhoea for their 
dependency of the total frequency on the concomitant administration of SSRIs or antidepressants. 
Taking the variability of the occurrence of adverse events into account, the presented numbers did not 
reflect a gross deviation in the occurrence of these non-diarrhoeal GI events in those with the 
concomitant compounds compared to the overall population. Therefore, a relevant interaction between 
the compounds is not suggested. Also, no further GI events were seen in this population, compared to 
the overall population.  
The higher incidence of diarrhoea in patients treated with laxatives, and with PPIs is noted and has 
been taken into account for within the SmPC and the RMP. In patients taking diuretics or agents 
affecting the renin-angiotensin system, the incidence of TEAES with linaclotide was slightly higher than 
that of placebo, with a clinically relevant difference in rates of diarrhoea (19.4% vs 1.7% and 22.8% 
vs 4.2%, respectively). There were no clinically meaningful changes in electrolytes observed between 
linaclotide and placebo in hypertensive patients. However, in case of diarrhoea, special populations, 
either because they are treated with drugs that may modify the water electrolyte balance or because 
of their underlying condition, may be prone to potential relevant changes in electrolytes. In this 
regard, the product information acknowledges that caution should be exercised in patients who are 
prone to a disturbance of water electrolyte balance (e.g. elderly, patients with CV diseases, diabetes, 
hypertension), and electrolyte control should be considered. Furthermore further data on the 
alterations of electrolytes under treatment with linaclotide will be generated within the planned PASS. 
A food interaction clinical study in healthy subjects showed that linaclotide was not detectable in 
plasma either in fed or in fasted conditions at the therapeutic doses. Taking linaclotide in the fed 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 120/133
 
 
 
 
condition produced more frequent and looser stools, as well as more gastrointestinal adverse events, 
than when taking it under fasting conditions. To take this into account linaclotice is recommended to 
be taken 30 minutes before a meal (see section 4.2 of the SmPC). 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Discontinuations of treatment due to adverse events were more frequent in the linaclotide groups as 
compared to the placebo treatment group (almost 10% in the IBS-C studies). This is mainly, and 
again, attributable to diarrhoea, and other gastrointestinal adverse events, such as abdominal pain, 
and distension, flatulence, nausea, and defecation urgency. Similar results are given for the CC 
studies. In the LTS-studies, about 10% of the patients discontinued due to adverse events, again by 
one half relating to diarrhoea, and to the main part of the other half relating to other gastrointestinal 
events. Differences between the two groups (CC and IBS-C) were not detected. 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data was available during the assessment. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Adverse events occurring with the administration of linaclotide can mostly be related to the laxative 
effects of the compound, namely diarrhoea and associated signs and symptoms (abdominal pain, 
nausea and vomiting, flatulence, defecation urgency). In pivotal trials in IBS-C, diarrhoea was reported 
in 160 (19.8%) of linaclotide patients compared with 24 (3.0%) of placebo patients. A total of 16 
(2.0%) linaclotide patients had diarrhoea TEAEs that were reported as severe compared with 1 (0.1%) 
placebo patient. A total of 91 (11.3%) patients developed moderate-severe diarrhoea compared with 
only 6 (0.7%) placebo patients. In the 160 patients who had TEAEs of diarrhoea and continued 
treatment, the event resolved within 7 days in 49 (30.6%) patients, and lasted more than 28 days in 
84 (52.5%) of them. Also, there appears to be an increase in gastrointestinal viral infections, also 
causing diarrhoea, of which the mechanism is currently unclear and which was included as a potential 
risk in the RMP. 
The clinical studies did not suggest that the occurrence of diarrhoea did lead to potential more serious 
consequences, such as dehydration, acid-base and electrolyte disturbances, or dizziness, hypertension, 
or syncope. However, the SmPC takes into account that these events may occur in rare cases. 
Furthermore the planned PASS will contain a safety endpoint that will specifically address complications 
of diarrhoea in patients with associated risk factors. 
The majority of these gastrointestinal events appears to be occurring at the beginning of the 
treatment. The SmPC mentions in 4.4, that, should prolonged or severe diarrhoea occur the treatment 
should be temporary discontinued and medical advice should be sought. 
The overall long-term safety profile is not relevantly different from the short-term profile apart from 
this overall decreased frequency of mainly the GI events. Patients exposure and preliminary results 
from the ongoing Long term safety studies give sufficient assurance that this is manageable in clinical 
practice. The SmPC provides appropriate guidance. Furthermore, future data assessment will occur 
based onthe final study report which is requested from the applicant upon finalisation (as described in 
the RMP). 
The occurrence of adverse events is not higher in relevant patient subgroups according to underlying 
disease, or for the different sexes, BMIs or races/ethnicities. However, the elderly population appears 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 121/133
 
 
 
 
to be more prone to adverse events, namely diarrhoea and its consequences. Therefore the need of 
periodical assessment of the benefit risk ratio in the elderly is highlighted in the SmPC.  More safety 
data in the elderly population, for whom the available patient numbers are low, will become available 
with the PASS. 
The higher incidence of diarrhoea in patients treated with laxatives, and with PPIs is noted and has 
been taken into account for within the SmPC and the RMP. In patients taking diuretics or agents 
affecting the renin-angiotensin system, the incidence of TEAES with linaclotide was slightly higher than 
that of placebo, with a clinically relevant difference in rates of diarrhoea. There were no clinically 
meaningful changes in electrolytes observed between linaclotide and placebo in hypertensive patients. 
However, in case of diarrhoea, special populations, such as patients suffering from diabetes, CV-
disease, and hypertension, either because they are treated with drugs that may modify the water 
electrolyte balance or because of their underlying condition, may be prone to potential relevant 
changes in electrolytes. In this regard, the product information acknowledges that caution should be 
exercised in patients who are prone to a disturbance of water electrolyte balance (e.g. elderly, patients 
with CV diseases, diabetes, hypertension), and electrolyte control should be considered. Furthermore 
further data on the alterations of electrolytes under treatment with linaclotide will be generated within 
the planned PASS. 
Serious adverse events during the trials were low, and all serious events did not occur more frequently 
than once. There were 7 deaths during the trials that can, however, none of these was attributed to 
linaclotide. 
An association of the compound with the occurrence of blood dyscrasias, including aplastic anaemia 
has been discussed. Based on the similar incidence than placebo of TEAEs potentially related to 
immunogenic potential, as well as  molecular weight below the generally accepted threshold for 
immunogenicity risk, the potential immunogenicity of the compound is considered not to be a concern. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
In summary, the safety profile of linaclotide has been adequately characterised. The compound does 
cause diarrhoea and associated symptoms as the most relevant undesirable effect. The data do not 
suggest that this does lead to clinically relevant, or serious, adverse events that could be considered a 
consequence of diarrhoea, namely, dehydration, electrolyte and bicarbonate disturbances, dizziness, 
hypotension and syncope in relevant numbers. Even if such events do occur in rare cases, they were 
generally mild in severity, and can be considered fully reversible and controllable. The SmPC takes 
these risks adequately into account. The product is considered to have an acceptable safety profile also 
in long-term administration.  
To further elucidate the safety profile as derived from the clinical studies a PASS was requested by the 
CHMP to address potential and identified risks, and missing information as described in the RMP. 
Furthermore, the final results of the long-term safety studies will be submitted upon availability, as 
defined in the RMP. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 122/133
 
 
 
 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan 
Table 4.  Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Diarrhoea 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and additional) 
Agreed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities  supported  with  “cases  of 
special interest” procedure            for   
early  identification  and  analysis  of 
events  for  further  characterisation 
in 
patients  who 
experience severe diarrhoea. 
subset 
of 
PASS  with  a  safety  endpoint  that 
address 
will 
specifically 
in 
complications  of  diarrhoea 
risk 
patients  with 
factors. 
associated 
in  Section  4.8  of 
Diarrhoea  is  included  as  a  very  common 
the 
adverse  event 
linaclotide  SmPC  (Annex  2).  In  addition, 
‘abdominal  pain’,  ‘abdominal  distension’,  and 
‘flatulence’  are  added  as  common  adverse   
events   in   Section   4.8   of   the linaclotide  
SmPC.   ‘Faecal   incontinence’ 
and ‘defecation urgency’ are also included as  
uncommon   adverse   events   in   Section 4.8 
of the linaclotide SmPC (Annex 2). 
(Posology  and  Method  of 
Section  4.2 
linaclotide  SmPC 
the 
Adminstration)  of 
contains a statement advising that linaclotide 
should  be  taken  preferably  at  least  30  min 
before  a  meal  (to  reduce  the  chances  of 
experiencing 
advisory 
statement  has  also  been  added  to  state  that 
physicians  should  periodically  assess    the  
need    for    continued    treatment  with 
linaclotide. 
diarrhoea). 
An 
4.4 
(Special  Warnings 
Section 
and 
Precautions  for  Use)  of  the  linaclotide  SmPC 
contains  a  statement  warning  that: 
‘Patients  should  be  aware  of  the  possible 
occurrence  of  diarrhoea  during  treatment. 
They  should  be  instructed  to  inform  their 
physician  if  severe  or  prolonged  diarrhoea 
occurs’. 
linaclotide  until 
severe  diarrhoea  occur, 
Should  prolonged  (e.g  more  than  1  week) 
temporary 
or 
the 
discontinuation  of 
diarrhoea  episode  is  resolved  should  be 
considered  and  medical  advice  sought. 
Additional  caution  should  be  exercised  in 
patients  who  are  prone  to  a  disturbance  of 
water   or   electrolyte   balance   (e.g.   the 
elderly, CV diseases, diabetes, hypertension), 
and 
be 
considered.”) 
electrolyte 
control 
should 
Section  4.5:  “Concomitant  treatment  with 
proton  pump  inhibitors,  laxatives  or  NSAIDS 
may increase the risk for diarrhoea.”) 
An observational study will be performed and 
specific  ADR  follow-up  questionnaires  will  be 
used 
reports  of 
severe cases of diarrhoea 
for  spontaneous  case 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 123/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and additional) 
Agreed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
Faecal Incontinence 
and 
Defecation Urgency 
Routine PV 
• 
incontinence’  and 
‘defecation 
 ‘Faecal 
urgency’  are 
included  as  uncommon 
adverse  events  in  Section  4.8  of  the 
linaclotide SmPC (Annex 2). 
faecal 
•  As  diarrhoea  is  the  main  risk  factor  for 
developing 
and 
defecation  urgency,  risk  minimisation  is 
mainly  directed  at  reducing  the  risk  of 
diarrhoea  and  assuring  correct  handling  of 
patients with diarrhoea. 
incontinence 
statement  advising 
•  Section  4.2  (Posology  and  Method  of 
Adminstration)    of    the    linaclotide  SmPC 
that 
contains  a 
linaclotide  should  be  taken  preferably    at  
least    30    min    before    a  meal  (to  reduce 
the chances of experiencing diarrhoea). An 
advisory statement has also been added to 
state  that  physicians  should  periodically 
assess 
the        need          for          continued 
treatment with linaclotide. 
•  Section    4.4    (Special    Warnings    and 
Precautions  for  Use)  of  the  linaclotide 
SmPC  contains  a  statement  warning  that: 
‘Patients  should  be  aware  of  the  possible  
occurrence  of  diarrhoea during treatment. 
They  should  be  instructed  to  inform  their 
physician  if  severe  or  prolonged  diarrhoea 
occurs’. Should prolonged (e.g more than 1 
week) 
occur, 
temporary    discontinuation    of  linaclotide 
until  the  diarrhoea  episode  is  resolved 
should  be  considered  and  medical  advice 
sought.  Additional  caution  should  be 
exercised  in  patients  who    are    prone    to  
a    disturbance    of  water  or  electrolyte 
balance (e.g. the elderly, 
diseases,          diabetes,  hypertension),  and 
electrolyte control should be considered.”) 
diarrhoea 
severe 
CV     
or 
•  Section    4.5:    “Concomitant    treatment 
with  proton  pump  inhibitors,  laxatives  or 
NSAIDS  may 
for 
increase 
diarrhoea.”) 
risk 
the 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 124/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and additional) 
Agreed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
Potential for off-label 
use and 
abuse/excessive use 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
PASS 
•  Section    4.1    (Therapeutic    Indications)  of 
the  linaclotide  SmPC  (Annex  2)  stating 
the  
that 
symptomatic    treatment    of  moderate  to 
severe 
irritable  bowel  syndrome  with 
constipation (IBS-C) in adults. 
linaclotide 
indicated 
for 
is 
•  Section  4.2  (Posology  and  Method  of 
Adminstration)    of    the    linaclotide  SmPC 
contains  a 
that 
physicians should periodically assess  the    
need          for          continued  treatment  with 
linaclotide. 
statement  advising 
•  Section    4.4    (Special    Warnings    and 
Precautions  for  Use)  of  the  linaclotide 
SmPC  contains  a  statement  warning  that:  
“Constella  should  be  used  after  organic 
diseases  have  been  ruled  out  and  after 
diagnosis of IBS-C is established”. 
‘Patients  should  be  aware  of  the  possible 
occurrence  of  diarrhoea  during  treatment. 
They  should  be  instructed  to  inform  their 
physician if severe or prolonged diarrhoea 
occurs’ 
Viral  gastroenteritis  is  included  as  a  common 
adverse  event  in  Section  4.8  (Undesirable 
Effects) of the linaclotide SmPC. 
Viral Gastroenteritis 
Routine 
PV PASS 
Safety issue 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and additional) 
Agreed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine 
PV PASS 
Manifestations of 
Severe Diarrhoea 
e.g., Alterations of 
Electrolytes, 
Dehydration and/or 
Orthostatic 
Hypotension 
•  Section    4.4    (Special    Warnings    and 
Precautions  for  Use)  of  the  linaclotide 
SmPC  contains  a  statement  warning  that: 
‘Patients  should  be  aware  of  the  possible  
occurrence  of  diarrhoea during treatment. 
They  should  be  instructed  to  inform  their 
physician  if  severe  or  prolonged  diarrhoea 
occurs’. Should prolonged (e.g more than 1 
week) 
occur, 
temporary    discontinuation    of  linaclotide 
until  the  diarrhoea  episode  is  resolved 
should  be  considered  and  medical  advice 
sought.  Additional  caution  should  be 
exercised  in  patients  who    are    prone    to  
a    disturbance    of  water  or  electrolyte 
balance (e.g. the elderly, 
diseases,          diabetes,  hypertension),  and 
electrolyte control should be considered.”) 
diarrhoea 
severe 
CV     
or 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 125/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and additional) 
Agreed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
Safety data in the 
paediatric 
population 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
PIP studies 
PASS 
Appropriate  statements  has  been  added  to  the 
linaclotide SmPC (Annex 2). 
Section  4.2:  The  safety  and  efficacy  of 
Constella  in  children  and  in  adolescents  under 
18 years old have not yet been established. No 
data are available (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).” 
‘Constella  is  not  recommended  for  use  in 
children and adolescents.” 
Section  4.4:  “Constella  is  not recommended 
for  use  in  children  and  adolescents  as  it  has 
not  been  studied  in  this      population.      As   
GC-C   receptor   is known to be overexpressed 
at  early  ages,  children  younger  than  2  years 
may  be  particularly    sensitive    to    linaclotide 
effects.” 
Safety issue 
Safety data in 
the elderly 
population 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and additional) 
Agreed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
PASS 
•  An    appropriate    statement    has    been 
added  in  Section  4.8  of  the  linaclotide 
SmPC (Annex  2) stating that elderly (>65 
years),  hypertensive  and  diabetic  patients 
reported  diarrhoea  more  frequently  as 
compared  to  the  overall  IBS-C  population 
included in the clinical trials. 
• 
Section  4.4  (Special  Warnings  and 
Precautions  for  Use)  of  the  linaclotide 
SmPC    contains    a    statement    warning 
that:  ‘Patients    should  be  aware  of  the 
possible         occurrence        of        diarrhoea 
during      treatment.      They      should      be 
instructed  to  inform  their  physician  if 
severe  or  prolonged  diarrhoea  occurs’. 
Should  prolonged  (e.g  more  than  1  week) 
or  severe  diarrhoea  occur, 
temporary  
discontinuation    of  linaclotide  until  the 
diarrhoea  episode  is  resolved  should  be 
considered  and  medical  advice  sought. 
Additional  caution  should  be  exercised  in 
patients  who 
  a  
disturbance 
  of  water  or  electrolyte 
balance (e.g. the elderly, 
diseases,          diabetes,  hypertension),  and 
electrolyte  control  should  be  considered.” 
“There  are  limited  data  in  elderly  patients 
(see  section  5.1).  Because  of  the  higher 
risk  of  diarrhoea,  special  attention  should 
be  given 
the 
treatment  benefit-risk  ratio  should  be 
carefully assessed’. 
these  patients  and 
  prone 
CV     
  are 
to 
to 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 126/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Safety data in 
pregnancy and 
lactation 
Safety data in 
patients with co-
existing disease, 
e.g. hepatic/renal 
Safety issue 
disease 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and additional) 
Agreed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
PASS 
An  appropriate  statement  has  been  added 
in  Section  4.6  of  the  linaclotide  SmPC  (Annex 
2) stating that There is limited amount  of  data 
from the  use  of  linaclotide 
in pregnant women. Animal  studies do not 
indicate  direct  or  indirect  harmful  effects  with 
respect  to  reproductive  toxicity  (see  section 
is 
5.3).  As  a  precautionary  measure, 
preferable  to  avoid  the  use  of  Constella  during 
pregnancy. 
it 
Section   4.2   (Posology   and   Method   of 
Administration)  of  the  linaclotide  SmPC  states 
that  no  dose  adjustments  are  required  for  
elderly   patients   or   for   patients   with 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and additional) 
Agreed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
Safey data in 
patients with 
inflammatory 
bowel disease 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
PASS 
hepatic  or  renal  impairment  (see  section 
5.2).  In  addition  Section  4.8  (Undesirable 
effects) of the SmPC states that as linaclotide is 
minimally  absorbed,  differences  in  the  safety 
profile  of  patients  with  renal  or  hepatic 
impairment are not expected. 
Section  4.1  of  the  linaclotide  SmPC (Annex 
2) contains a clear statement that linaclotide is 
indicated  for  the  symptomatic  treatment  of 
moderate  to  severe  irritable  bowel  syndrome 
with constipation (IBS-C) in adults. 
  disease 
Section      4.4:      “Constella      has      not      been 
studied  in  patients  with  chronic  inflammatory 
conditions  of  the  intestinal  tract,    such    as  
  and  ulcerative  colitis, 
Crohn’s 
therefore 
is  not  recommended  to  use 
Constella  in  these  patients.”  ‘Constella  should 
be used after organic diseases have been ruled 
out  and  after  a  diagnosis  of 
is 
established’. 
IBS-C 
it 
data 
in 
receiving 
Safety 
patients 
concomitant 
medications 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
Section  4.5:  “Concomitant  treatment  with 
proton  pump  inhibitors,  laxatives  or  NSAIDS 
may  increase  the  risk  for  diarrhoea.”  and  “In 
cases  of  severe  or  prolonged  diarrhoea, 
absorption of other oral medicinal products may 
be  affected.  The  efficacy  of  oral  contraceptives 
may  be  reduced  and  the  use  of  an  additional 
contraceptive  method 
to 
prevent  possible  failure  of  oral  contraception 
(see  the  prescribing  information  of  the  oral 
contraceptive).  Caution  should  be  exercised 
when  prescribing  medicinal  products  absorbed 
in  the    intestinal    tract    with    a    narrow 
therapeutic  index  such  as  levotyroxine  as  their 
efficacy may be reduced.” 
is  recommended 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 127/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Safety data in 
male patients 
Safety data in 
patients with known 
or suspected 
mechanical GI 
obstruction 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and additional) 
Agreed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
None 
PASS 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
PASS 
Section     4.3     of     Linaclotide     SmPC 
contraindication  for  ‘Patients  with  known  or 
suspected 
gastrointestinal 
obstruction” 
mechanical 
Safety issue 
Agreed pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and additional) 
Agreed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
PASS 
Safety data in 
patients with 
cardiac disorders or 
cardiovascular risk 
factors (e.g., 
Hypertension, 
diabetes) 
Section        4.4        (Special        Warnings        and 
Precautions   for   Use)   of   the   linaclotide 
SmPC  contains  a  statement  warning  that: 
‘Patients  should  be  aware  of  the  possible 
occurrence of diarrhoea during treatment. They 
should  be  instructed  to  inform  their  physician 
if  severe  or  prolonged  diarrhoea  occurs’. 
Should  prolonged  (e.g  more  than  1  week)  or 
severe 
temporary 
discontinuation of linaclotide until the diarrhoea 
episode  is  resolved  should  be  considered  and 
medical  advice  sought.  Additional  caution 
should  be  exercised  in  patients  who  are  prone 
to  a  disturbance  of  water      or      electrolyte   
balance      (e.g.      the  elderly,  CV  diseases, 
diabetes,  hypertension),    and    electrolyte  
control should be considered.” 
diarrhoea 
occur, 
Long-term safety data 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
None 
Review of LTSS 
The below pharmacovigilance activity(ies) in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance are 
needed to investigate further some of the safety concerns:  
Description 
Due date 
Database based cohort study (PASS) to evaluate potential and identified risks and 
A draft final 
collect data on patient populations where data is missing. (RMP measure) 
protocol should 
be submitted for 
assessment 
within 6 months 
after approval 
Final study reports of the long-term safety studies MCP-103-305 and LIN-MD-02. 
The study reports 
(RMP measure) 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
and final 
evaluation should 
be submitted by 
October 2012. 
Page 128/133
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
2.8.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
In the two main studies, a statistically superior effect in comparison to placebo was shown for the 
overall assessment of IBS symptoms, and for a huge variety of response variables, combining the 
occurrence of relief of these symptoms according to various criteria. This includes the satisfactory 
response rates regarding abdominal pain/discomfort (combined), and regarding “IBS Degree of 
Response”, which represented the co-primary endpoints in these trials. Several levels of “strictness” of 
the response criteria have also been evaluated showing highly statistically significant results in all of 
the evaluations. The compound was shown to exert effects not only on constipation/bowel movement 
related endpoints, such as frequency of bowel movements, stool consistency, severity of straining at 
stool, bloating, and others, but also had beneficial effects on the IBS-specific endpoints abdominal pain 
and discomfort; a clear dose-response relationship on these effects could be shown. 
Generally, the endpoints used in the clinical trials were in agreement with the current European 
guidance document, and the instruments used to measure these endpoints have at least partly been 
validated. The patient population included in the trials has been evaluated to be fully reflecting a 
moderately to severely diseased population in need for a continuous treatment. Exclusion of patients 
with other potential diseases explaining the subjective complaints have been conducted to a 
satisfactory extent. 
Most of the results do in fact not only represent statistically significant, but also clinically relevant 
results. As regards the primary endpoint response criteria, the effect of linaclotide versus placebo for 
the “12-Week abdominal Pain/abdominal discomfort responders” (relative increase in responders by 
80%, and 14% in absolute terms) and “12-Week IBS Degree of Relief Responders” (relative increase in 
responders by 194% and 21% in absolute terms) was consistent across pivotal trials in IBS-C. For 
other variables, at least partly, pre-determined levels of clinical relevance have also been met.  
The beneficial effects seen as regards all these parameters are not only seen in the two phase 3 
studies after 3 months in consistent manner, but have obviously shown persistence of sustainability by 
showing similar, or even slightly better results in the single 6 months study for the longer treatment 
duration. Also, as taken from data on patient satisfaction in the ongoing long-term safety studies, the 
beneficial effects appear to last for even longer periods. Linaclotide has also been shown to beneficially 
impact Quality of Life of patients, which has been shown with a variety of these instruments. 
The consistency of the effects has generally been shown for the relevant subgroups of ethnic/racial 
minorities, and the minority of male and elderly patients to a sufficient extent, although a higher 
variation was seen overall. A relevant rebound effect after cessation of treatment with the compound 
has not been observed in the trials. 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 129/133
 
 
 
 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
The beneficial effects for periods longer than 3 months have only been demonstrated in one study. The 
long-term safety studies included some parameters for the evaluation of efficacy which was supportive. 
The fact, that only one trial has been conducted with the treatment duration of 6 months, required the 
efficacy demonstration in this trial to provide overall outstanding robustness of results, and full validity 
of the data. This overall robustness of the results has generally been shown hence the availability of 
this single long-term trial is accepted. 
Despite the clinically relevant results it has to be noted that the rate of non-responders to linaclotide in 
pivotal studies was high (45.5% of non-responders for improvement in 12-week abdominal 
pain/abdominal discomfort and 61.7% of non-responders in 12-week IBS degree of relief). This means 
that approximately half patients will not adequately or fully benefit from treatment with linaclotide. To 
avoid that patients not responsive to linaclotide are being treated, the SmPC contains a clear guidance 
to physicians to assess the improvement of the symptoms after 4 weeks of treatment and should 
reconsider treatment if there is no improvement in symptoms.  
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
In the clinical studies, linaclotide was overall causing a modest but relevant increase in adverse events. 
This increase in adverse events as compared to placebo was mainly attributable to the induction of 
laxation by the compound, and its “unwanted” exaggeration, namely diarrhoea. 
In association with diarrhoea, other associated gastrointestinal disturbances have been observed, 
which are suspected to be direct consequences of the induction of laxation, and of diarrhoea, namely 
abdominal pain, bloating, abdominal distension, faecal incontinence, and defecation urgency. The 
majority of these gastrointestinal events appears to be occurring at the beginning of the treatment. 
The SmPC mentions in 4.4, that, should prolonged or severe diarrhoea occur the treatment should be 
temporary discontinued and medical advice should be sought. 
The number of serious adverse events was overall low during the clinical development. None of the 
events occurred more than once. Only a minority of the adverse events observed were severe in 
nature and were completely reversible and controllable at the same time.  
From the available data it appears that the elderly are more prone to the occurrence of gastrointestinal 
adverse events, namely diarrhoea and its associated events. Therefore physicians should periodically 
assess the benefit risk ratio in the elderly (4.4 of the SmPC).   
Further data on complications of diarrhoea under treatment with linaclotide will be generated within 
the Post-authorisation Safety Study (PASS) containing a safety endpoint that will specifically address 
complications of diarrhoea in patients with associated risk factors. This study is subject to the Risk 
Management Plan. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
In clinical practise the occurrence of diarrhoea may lead to potential more serious consequences, such 
as dehydration, acid-base and electrolyte disturbances, or dizziness, orthostatic hypotension, or 
syncope. The SmPC - despite such events were not observed - acknowledges that caution should be 
exercised in patients who are prone to a disturbance of water electrolyte balance (e.g. elderly, patients 
with CV diseases, diabetes, hypertension), and electrolyte control should be considered. Furthermore, 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 130/133
 
 
 
 
additional data will be generated through the PASS which contains a safety endpoint that will 
specifically address complications of diarrhoea in patients with associated risk factors. 
The number of patients in the elderly subgroup (65 years and older) is rather low in the double-blind 
phase 3 studies and the elderly population has the highest rates of adverse events. Also, the incidence 
of diarrhoea – and hence also the potential for the more serious consequences of diarrhoea – appears 
to be highest in the elderly population. This uncertainty is considered to be adequately balanced by the 
guidance in the SmPC. In addition further relevant post marketing data will be specifically generated 
with the PASS (as described in the RMP). 
The evaluation of a potential influence of concomitant medication revealed that differential rates of 
adverse events were seen for PPIs. While the potential mechanism remains unclear this has been taken 
account for within the SmPC. 
The overall long-term safety profile is not expected to be significantly different from the short-term 
profile apart from this overall decreased frequency (of mainly the GI events). Patients exposure and 
preliminary results from the ongoing Long term safety studies give sufficient assurance on the granting 
of a marketing authorisation. The applicant is requested to submit the final report of these long-term 
safety studies upon finalisation (as described in the RMP). 
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
The observed favourable effects are generally considered to be clinically relevant. Linaclotide has been 
shown to exert beneficial effects in consistent manner on bowel movement related endpoints, as well 
as in those related to abdominal pain and discomfort. Also global measurements and the evaluation of 
Quality of Life are in accordance with these results. Overall, a clinical relevance of the results in 
comparison to placebo can be concluded. Subgroups of patients have shown an overall acceptable 
consistency of efficacy. 
The unfavourable effects of the compound appear to be mainly restricted to effects in the 
gastrointestinal tract, and related to the laxative action of linaclotide, and being in accordance with the 
missing systemic availability. More serious consequences of the gastrointestinal effects – which is 
mainly diarrhoea and associated symptoms – such as electrolyte and acid base changes, as well as 
dehydration, dizziness, and syncope were rather rare events and of low severity. Moreover, diarrhoea 
appears to be controllable with intermittent dosing cessation and fully reversible. These unfavourable 
effects are adequately labelled and manageable with the guidance in the SmPC and appropriate risk 
management measures are included in the RMP. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Based on the robust efficacy demonstration and the manageable safety profile, in conjunction with the 
clearly outlined requirements for future data generation, the benefit/risk balance of the linaclotide for 
the treatment of IBS-C in adults is considered positive.  
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
Linaclotide is intended for the treatment of Irritable Bowel Syndrome with constipation. IBS is a 
functional bowel disease characterised by recurrent abdominal pain and discomfort associated with 
defecation irregularities, with the subgroups constipation predominant, diarrhoea predominant, mixed 
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 131/133
 
 
 
 
or unsubtyped. IBS is an incompletely understood syndrome, for which no specifically licensed 
medication is available in Europe, and treatment recommendations point to a symptomatic therapy 
only. IBS represents a significant burden for patients, physicians, healthcare providers and employers. 
Patients with IBS have more days off work, have poorer quality of life, and utilize healthcare resources 
more frequently compared with individuals who do not have IBS. Therefore, there is an unmet medical 
need for therapies for alleviating symptoms and increasing quality of life in patients with IBS-C. 
Linaclotide is the first drug candidate proposed for licensing in this indication for long time. Linaclotide 
is proposed to treat the constipation predominant subtype of IBS. The development programme for 
linaclotide has shown unequivocal efficacy to a statistically significant, and also a clinically relevant 
extent. The safety profile of the compound is considered acceptable and controllable with the relevant 
statements included into the SmPC and the measure defined in the RMP as described above. 
4. Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of Constella in the symptomatic treatment of moderate to severe irritable 
bowel syndrome with constipation (IBS-C) in adults is favourable and therefore recommends the 
granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Risk Management System and PSUR cycle 
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
The MAH shall perform the pharmacovigilance activities detailed in the Pharmacovigilance Plan, as 
agreed in version 3.0 of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the CHMP. 
As per the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems for medicinal products for human use, the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
  When new information is received that may impact on the current Safety Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached  
 
at the request of the EMA 
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow the standard requirements until otherwise agreed by the 
CHMP.  
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 132/133
 
 
 
 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable 
Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures 
Not applicable 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of data on the quality, non-clinical and clinical properties of the active 
substance, the CHMP considers that linaclotide is to be qualified as a new active substance.  
Constella 
Assessment Report 
EMA/709077/2012  
Page 133/133
 
 
 
 
