26 April 2023 
EMA/219112/2023 
Human Medicines Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 
46 of regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended 
Constella  
linaclotide 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/002490/P46/018 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
List of abbreviations .................................................................................... 3 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 4 
2. Summary of data submitted .................................................................... 4 
3. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 4 
3.1. Clinical study LIN-MD-64 ....................................................................................... 5 
Methods .................................................................................................................... 5 
Results .................................................................................................................... 14 
Discussion on clinical aspects ..................................................................................... 28 
4. Overall conclusion ................................................................................. 29 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 2/29 
 
  
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
AE 
AESI 
BMs 
BP 
CI 
CIC 
COVID-19 
CRFs 
CRO 
CSBM 
CSR 
DSMB   
ECG 
eDiary   
EOS 
EU 
FC 
GC-C 
GCP 
IBS-C   
ICF 
ICH 
IEC 
IRB 
MedDRA 
mITT 
PCS 
PEG 
PFC 
PT 
QTcF QT 
RR 
SAE 
SAP 
SBM 
SOC 
TEAE 
TESAEs  
ULN 
adverse event 
adverse events of special interest 
bowel movements 
blood pressure 
confidence interval 
chronic idiopathic constipation 
coronavirus disease 2019 
case report forms 
contract research organization 
complete spontaneous bowel movement 
clinical study report 
data safety monitoring board 
electrocardiogram 
electronic diary 
end of study 
European Union 
functional constipation 
guanylate cyclase subtype C 
Good Clinical Practice 
Irritable Bowel Syndrome with Constipation 
informed consent form 
International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Pharmaceuticals 
for Human Use 
independent ethics committee 
institutional review board 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
modified intent-to-treat 
potentially clinically significant 
polyethylene glycol 
pediatric functional constipation 
preferred term 
Corrected by Fridericia's formula 
respiratory rate 
serious adverse event 
statistical analysis plan 
spontaneous bowel movement 
system organ class 
treatment-emergent adverse event 
treatment-emergent serious adverse events 
upper limit of normal 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 3/29 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
This submission, filed by the MAH on 22-12-2022, includes a paediatric study submitted in accordance 
with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended, referring to an interim study report of 
study No. LIN-MD-64 (A Phase 3, Multicenter, Randomized, Double-blind, Parallel-group, Safety and 
Efficacy Study of Linaclotide in Paediatric Participants, ages 6 to 17 years, With Irritable Bowel 
Syndrome with Constipation (IBS-C) and of Linaclotide versus placebo in Paediatric Participants with 
Functional Constipation (FC)). 
A short expert overview has also been provided with this submission. 
The submission of the study report occurred at the same date as the previously reported study LIN-
MD-66 (long-term safety study). Due to procedural reasons, the study report for LIN-MD-64 is 
reported with one month time-distance to the long-term safety study. 
2.  Summary of data submitted  
The MAH states that Study LIN-MD-64 is part of the Linaclotide PIP 000927-PIP01-10-M06 (pending 
M07 EC decision for PIP modification). The applicant also states that there are no regulatory 
consequences identified by the MAH with this study.  
The MAH claims that there are no new data that change or result in a new benefit/risk evaluation. The 
MAH confirms that there are no regulatory consequences identified with this study and that there is no 
new data that changes or results in a new benefit/risk evaluation. Consequently, no changes are 
proposed to the Constella PI. The interim CSR submitted reports the efficacy results in patients with FC 
only, but not in those patients with IBS-C. 
3.  Scientific discussion  
Linaclotide, a 14-amino acid peptide that acts on the apical surface of epithelial cells in the intestinal 
lumen to stimulate the receptor guanylate cyclase subtype C (GC-C), is currently approved in a wide 
variety of countries across the world with approval in the EU dated 26/12/2012. The product is 
currently licensed in the EU for the indication:  
“Constella is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of moderate to severe irritable bowel syndrome 
with constipation (IBS-C) in adults”.  
The compound is also licensed for the indication chronic idiopathic constipation in the US, Canada, 
Japan; Australia; New Zealand; Saudi Arabia; and Mexico (with doses of 72µg and 145 µg daily), and 
the MAH intends to modify the currently approved indication in the US to include functional 
constipation (FC) in children and adolescents 6-17 years of age.  
Since the FC indication is not licensed in the EU, there is no intention to include the extension of the 
patient population into the European license. 
The MAH stated that Study LIN-MD-64 is part of the agreed PIP (EMEA-000927-PIP01-10-M06). In 
accordance with the above-mentioned facts, the applicant states that there are no regulatory 
consequences identified by the MAH with this study. There are no new data that change or result in a 
new benefit/risk evaluation. Consequently, no changes are proposed to the PI. 
Study LIN-MD-64 is a Phase 3, multi-centre, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, safety and 
efficacy study of linaclotide in paediatric subjects, aged 6 to 17 years, with IBS-C, and of linaclotide 
versus placebo in paediatric subjects with FC. The current submission focuses on the final results from 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 4/29 
 
  
 
 
paediatric FC subjects only. Results from the paediatric IBS-C subjects will be reported in a separate 
subsequent CSR. 
3.1.  Clinical study LIN-MD-64 
The interim CSR for study LIN-MD-64 is focussing on the evaluation of the data for patients with 
functional constipation only, although the study itself also included patients with IBS-C. 
Study LIN-MD-64 is titled as: Phase 3, Multicenter, Randomized, Double-blind, Parallel-group, Safety 
and Efficacy Study of Linaclotide in Paediatric Participants, Ages 6 to 17 Years, With Irritable Bowel 
Syndrome with Constipation (IBS-C) and of Linaclotide versus Placebo in Paediatric Participants with 
Functional Constipation (FC) 
Methods 
Study participants 
The original study protocol included the following inclusion criteria for the population to be studied: 
The participants had to meet the modified Rome III criteria for Child/Adolescent FC.  In particular, for 
the patients, for at least 2 months before the Screening Visit, the participant had to have 2 or fewer 
defecations (with each defecation occurring in the absence of any laxative, suppository, or enema use 
during the preceding 24 hours) in the toilet per week. 
In addition, participants had to meet one or more of the following criteria at least once per week for at 
least 2 months before the screening visit: 
-  History of retentive posturing or excessive volitional stool retention 
- 
 History of painful or hard BMs 
-  History of large diameter stools that may obstruct the toilet 
- 
Presence of a large faecal mass in the rectum 
-  At least 1 episode of faecal incontinence per week 
Assessor’s comment: 
The criteria above were relevant for the study population for which results are included in the 
submitted interim CSR. It is noted that the requirements were based on the Rome III criteria, despite 
the fact that – at the time of the planning of the study – Rome IV was already in place 
According to the Rome IV criteria, the following would apply: 
“Must include two or more of the following occurring at least once per week for a minimum of 1 month 
with insufficient criteria for a diagnosis of IBS: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Two or fewer defecations in the toilet per week in a child of a developmental age of at least 4 
years 
At least one episode of faecal incontinence per week 
History of retentive posturing or excessive volitional stool retention 
History of painful or hard bowel movements 
Presence of a large faecal mass in the rectum 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 5/29 
 
  
 
 
- 
- 
History of large diameter stools which can obstruct the toilet 
After appropriate evaluation, the symptoms cannot be fully explained by another medical 
condition” 
It is obvious that the inclusion criteria also appropriately reflect Rome IV, and are rather more 
“restrictive” with the requirement of the 2-months time-frame as compared to the only one-month 
time-frame in Rome IV. The inclusion criteria are therefore considered adequate. 
With the protocol amendment 1, dated June 2020, the scope of the study was widened to allow 
patients with IBS-C also into the study. For IBS-C patients, the following inclusion criteria were set up: 
Participants had to meet the Rome III criteria for child/adolescent IBS defined as experiencing - at 
least once per week for at least 2 months before the Screening Visit - abdominal discomfort (an 
uncomfortable sensation not described as pain) or pain associated with 2 or more of the following at 
least 25% of the time: 
- 
Improvement with defecation 
-  Onset associated with a change in frequency of stool 
-  Onset associated with a change in form (appearance) of stool 
In addition, participants had to have an average daytime abdominal pain score of ≥ 1 (at least “a tiny 
bit”) during the 14 days before Visit 3. 
Assessor’s comment: 
No comment necessary. The results of this subgroup will obviously be reported at a later time-point. In 
the following, no further reference is made to the IBS-C subgroup included in the study. 
Treatments 
All FC subjects were randomized to a linaclotide 72 μg dose or placebo with a 1:1 allocation ratio. The 
identity of the investigational product is given in the following table: 
Table 1: 
Identity of Investigational Product: 
Assessor’s comment: 
It is noted that a capsule formulation was used in the trial. Since “solid” pharmaceutical forms could 
cause problems with intake, especially in young children, the participant were allowed to take the dose 
as a “sprinkled dose” with clear instructions with using either applesauce, or bottled water. 
Objective(s) 
The primary objective of the trial was defined as “to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 12 weeks of 
linaclotide therapy in comparison with placebo in paediatric participants aged 6 to 17 years who fulfil 
modified Rome III Criteria for Child/Adolescent FC”. The objectives for the IBS-C population were 
separately defined. 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 6/29 
 
  
 
 
 
Study design: 
The study included 8 visits and consisted of a 2- to 4-week Screening Period to establish eligibility for 
study entry, a 2- to 3-week pre-intervention Period to establish baseline values, a 12-week Double-
Blind Intervention Period to assess the effects of blinded dosing, followed by a 1-week post-
intervention Period, for a total duration of approximately 17 to 20 weeks. The overall study scheme is 
given in the following figure: 
Figure 1: 
Study design schematic: 
Assessor’s comment: 
No further comment. The study design is appropriate. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The protocol defined the following as primary efficacy assessment: 
“The primary efficacy assessments, which will be used to determine the primary efficacy endpoint of 
SBM frequency, are the items assessing BM frequency and rescue medication use.” 
Bowel movement frequency was to be evaluated with morning and evening e-diaries, asking for the 
number and timing of stools. A similar evaluation for the rescue medication use was also included. 
In addition, the statistical considerations (Chapter 9.1 of the protocol) define the primary evaluation as 
follows: 
“The primary endpoint is change from baseline in 12-week SBM frequency rate (SBMs/week) during 
the study intervention period.” This endpoint definition was also used in the SAP and clear instructions 
given how to determine a SBM. The SAP clearly stated also the following: 
The statistical null hypothesis for the primary endpoint is as follows: linaclotide 72 ug is the same as 
placebo with respect to the primary efficacy analysis endpoint. This hypothesis will be tested using an 
analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model with study intervention, age group (6- 11 years of age and 12-
17 years of age) as fixed factors and baseline value as a covariate. Least squares means (LSMs) for 
each study intervention group, difference in LSMs between linaclotide versus placebo, associated 2-
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 7/29 
 
  
 
 
 
sided 95% CI for these difference in LSMs, and the corresponding statistical test p-value will be 
reported. 
Assessor’s comment: 
The mentioned first description is not clear. It is understood that SBMs are to be evaluated on the 
answer to the question whether any rescue medication has been taken. However, the definition as 
above obviously refers to a responder-type evaluation, for which the criteria are partially unclear. 
However, the statistical parts of the protocol more clearly defined the primary endpoint, and the 
evaluation based on SBM weekly frequency is deemed adequate. 
The secondary and additional endpoints comprised the following: 
-  Stool consistency according to the paediatric Bristol Stool Form Scale (BSFS) 
- 
- 
The number of complete spontaneous bowel movements and sense of incomplete evacuation 
The degree of straining with each bowel movement 
-  Occurrence and severity of day-time, night-time and 24-hour abdominal pain 
-  Occurrence and severity of day-time, night-time, and 24-hour abdominal bloating 
-  Occurrence and frequency of faecal incontinence 
- 
- 
Fulfilment of the modified Rome III criteria (as at inclusion) 
Participants global impression of change and global impression of severity 
-  Observer reported global impression of change and global severity (only patients aged 6-11). 
Assessor’s comment: 
The secondary and additional efficacy endpoints are deemed adequate. Of note, the BSFS endpoint 
was evaluated using a change from baseline evaluation as secondary endpoint in confirmatory manner, 
within a hierarchical approach (to be tested only once the primary endpoint was significant. 
All efficacy assessments were determined by responses entered in the electronic diary (eDiary). Given 
a lack of existing age-appropriate patient-reported outcome (PRO) measures, the sponsors developed 
a Paediatric FC Symptom Diary (PFCSD), a novel patient-reported eDiary that assesses 7 core signs 
and symptoms of FC (stool frequency, stool consistency, incomplete evacuation, straining, abdominal 
pain, abdominal bloating, and faecal incontinence). Development of the PFCSD included input from 
paediatric patients with FC and their caregivers, and is aligned with FDA's 2009 Guidance for Industry, 
Patient-Reported Outcome Measures: Use in Medical Product Development to Support Labeling Claims. 
A PRO dossier summarizing the totality of evidence for use of the PFCSD to support both primary and 
secondary endpoints relevant to the FC population in the pivotal Study LIN-MD-64 is also submitted 
with this application. 
PRO-Dossier submission: 
The applicant submits a complete report on the development of the PFCSD (Paediatric Functional 
Constipation Symptom Diary) a novel patient-reported electronic diary (eDiary) assessing the 7 core 
symptoms of FC, with input from the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA’s) Divisions of 
Gastroenterology and Clinical Outcome Assessment throughout the development process (i.e., the FDA 
has reviewed both qualitative and quantitative work to support the content validity and psychometric 
properties of the eDiary). Although the PFCSD was developed for IBS-C patients also, the submitted 
dossier refers mainly, or exclusively to the FC population. 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 8/29 
 
  
 
 
The PFCSD includes the scales mentioned above for the following items: The morning and evening 
reporting of the number of stools, the reporting of the BSFS for each bowel movement, the assessment 
of completeness of each bowel movement (yes/no), the presence and level of straining (0-4 scale), the 
presence and severity of abdominal pain (1-4 scale with evaluation in the morning and evening), the 
presence and severity of abdominal bloating (similar to abdominal pain), and the occurrence of faecal 
incontinence (yes/no) 
The conceptual framework for the PFCSD is shown in the following figure: 
Figure 2: 
PFCSD conceptual framework 
The development and psychometric evaluation of the PFCSD was undertaken in accordance with 
recommendations outlined in the FDA PRO guidance “Patient-Reported Outcome Measures: Use in 
Medical Product Development to Support Labeling Claims”, and with frequent input from the FDA. In 
addition, caregivers of patients with paediatric FC were also interviewed during diary development. As 
such, the IBS-C patient and FC caregiver qualitative results are presented in the dossier in conjunction 
with input from FC patient results where relevant. Each of the following steps were completed to 
inform the rigorous development of the PFCSD: 
Step 1: A targeted literature review was undertaken to identify and review the previously undertaken 
qualitative research on IBS and FC symptoms. 
Step 2: An advisory board of expert paediatric gastroenterologists was convened to confirm results of 
the literature review, inform the development of a conceptual framework, and assist in the 
development of the PRO measurement strategy 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 9/29 
 
  
 
 
 
Step 4 included an FDA consultation during which agreement on the plan for the diary development 
process was achieved. 
Stop 4 comprised a concept elicitation phase, during which a total of 31 interview with children and 
adolescents with a clinical diagnosis of FC, 33 patients with IBS-C, 28 parents/caregivers of FC 
patients, and 27 caregivers/parents of IBS-C patients were undertaken in order to identify key 
symptoms and signs. 
Step 5 included the item generation, which integrated the steps 1-4 
Step 6 was a translatability assessment of the draft items to facilitate future translations of the diary. 
No changes were made to the draft item pool based on this assessment. 
Step 7 included a cognitive debriefing and quantitative pilot study phase. To refine the draft PFCSD 
items, 3 iterative rounds of cognitive debriefing interviews were conducted with a total of 32 
children/adolescents aged 6 through 17 years with PFC and 33 children/adolescents aged 6 through 17 
years with IBS-C. In addition to the interviews, each of these participants completed the draft PFCSD 
for 5 to 9 days to facilitate an initial assessment of its quantitative properties. The main change 
implemented after cognitive debriefing referred to the implementation of the 2 12-hour recall periods, 
mainly attributable to the difficulties of understanding the 24-hour period in small children (up to 8 
years). 
Step 8 was another FDA review procedure, which ended with implementing recommendations from the 
FDA to remove certain items (deemed to be duplicate), and minor changes to items (e.g. introduction 
of faces instead of scales only) and instructions, and the development of an interviewer-administered 
version in order to address concerns regarding the understanding/handling by younger children. 
Step 9: Included additional qualitative interviews (n=30) in order to address the FDA concerns and to 
confirm content and face validity of the changes implemented. 
Step 10 included the psychometric evaluation of the scale: The psychometric properties of the initial 
version of the PFCSD were evaluated using data from the following phase 2 clinical trial: A Multicenter, 
Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Parallel-Group, Safety and Efficacy Study of Linaclotide 
in Children Ages 6 to 17 Years Who Fulfil Modified Rome III Criteria for Child/Adolescent FC (LIN-MD-
62). The properties evaluated referred to inter-item correlation, reliability (test-retest reliability), 
construct, convergent and divergent validity, known-groups validity and the ability to detect change. 
Anchors used in this evaluation were based on global severity and global change anchors from patients 
and caregivers. 
Step 11 included again an FDA interaction step: The FDA expressed concerns regarding the global 
impression items slated for inclusion in phase 3 and the need for additional evidence to support 
meaningful SBM change. The sponsors agreed to implement the Agency’s recommendations. 
Step 12 was the confirmatory psychometric evaluation: The psychometric properties of the final PFCSD 
were confirmed using data from the submitted (based on the interim CSR) phase 3 study (LIN-MD-64). 
The properties evaluated referred to test-re-test reliability, construct, convergent and divergent 
validity, known-groups validity, and the responsiveness/ability to detect change. Responder thresholds 
were determined for each of the items.  
The scale was translated into the following languages: English (Canada), Bulgarian (Bulgaria), Russian 
(Estonia), Arabic/Hebrew/Russian (Israel), Italian (Italy), Dutch (Netherlands), Russian/Ukrainian 
(Ukraine), and Spanish (US). 
Assessor’s comment: 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 10/29 
 
  
 
 
A complete evaluation of the appropriateness of the instrument is probably not within the scope of this 
procedure for the following reasons: The study results have been used for the final 
evaluation/validation of the scale, and usually, the use of newly developed scales as primary endpoint 
within the same trial used for psychometric validation is not deemed appropriate. Also, this submission 
is filed with the proposal not to implement any consequences for the current MA in the EU, and 
therefore, the validity of the instrument appears to be of secondary concern only.  
However, the main issue with the PRO is the fact that it is not proposed to be evaluated as a total 
PFCSD scale, but that each of the items is evaluated separately, similar to the evaluations performed 
during development. Therefore, the development is not fully understood, and it remains mainly unclear 
how the final selection of the primary and secondary endpoints has been done, and whether it has any 
relation to the development of the scale/instrument, and how the “validation exercise” has indeed 
influenced the selection of the endpoint. 
As reported above, the endpoints selected – including the primary and first (“key”) secondary endpoint 
are deemed acceptable, but rather on the basis that BM frequency (including SBM and CSBM) have 
previously also been used as primary endpoints in comparable trials (including those in the paediatric 
population), and the BSFS is also not a new development. Moreover, the chosen primary and “key 
secondary” endpoints were clearly identified as the most important already in the early phases of 
development of the scale, and can be regarded to matter the most to the patients. Therefore, despite 
the fact that the final validation step was carried out in this submitted phase 3 study, no concern does 
arise. Rather, it is considered that the final way of evaluating the endpoints used (e.g. the split of the 
recall period in two 12-hour periods) has been appropriately substantiated, and supports the use of the 
items of the PFCSD (but not the total scale though) within a phase 3 study. 
Sample size/Statistical Methods 
For the primary and secondary efficacy parameters, comparison between linaclotide and placebo were 
performed using an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model with study intervention group and age 
group (6 to 11 years of age and 12 to 17 years of age) as fixed factors and baseline value as a 
covariate. Least squares means (LSMs) for each study intervention group, difference in LSMs between 
linaclotide versus placebo, associated 2-sided 95% confidence interval (CI) for these difference in 
LSMs, and the corresponding statistical test P value were reported. Study intervention-by-age group 
interaction were investigated as an exploratory analysis to assess whether the effects of study 
intervention were consistent across age groups. Sensitivity analyses were performed to assess the 
robustness of ANCOVA based on an observed case approach. 
The sample size of this study was determined based on the primary efficacy endpoint. A total of 326 
participants are targeted to be randomized to this study in a 1:1 allocation ratio to receive either 
linaclotide 72 μg (163 participants) or placebo (163 participants) for 12-weeks of double-blind study 
intervention period. This sample size was based on the assumption of a 1 point reduction of the SBM 
rate (based on change from baseline in SBM frequency rate with a 72 μg dose: Phase 2 LIN-MD-62 
data, including the 6-11 year age group weighing ≥ 35 kg and the 12-17 year age group, and recent 
adult study MCP-103-309, and assumed standard deviation of 3, and alpha level of 5% (two sided), a 
1:1 randomisation, a 2-sample t-test, and a power of 85%. 
The protocol additionally defined, that, depending on the enrolment status for FC participants in this 
study, an IA for futility “may be considered”. It further determined that, assuming that this optional 
futility IA is performed at 50% of information based on using the primary efficacy endpoint for FC 
participants, a total sample size of 378 FC participants (189 participants in each study intervention 
group) will need to be randomized to ensure 85% power for the final analysis at a slightly reduced 
significance level of 4.9% to demonstrate that linaclotide is superior to placebo (based on the same 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 11/29 
 
  
 
 
assumptions as above. The IA was to be performed by an independent DSMB and the DSMB was to 
give a recommendation for the stop or continuation of the study only. No stopping for efficacy was 
foreseen and the futility stop was non-binding (with, however, stopping boundaries being set-up). 
According to the SAP, the interim analysis was to be performed once 189 patients had completed the 
study intervention. However, finally, the interim analysis was not performed. 
For the IBS patients, no interim was foreseen, and obviously no sample size calculation performed. 
An estimand framework was included in the protocol and the SAP, with the following definitions: 
Population 
The target population is participants with FC, ages 6-17 years old, satisfying the inclusion and 
exclusion criteria as specified in Sections 5.1 and 5.2 of the protocol, respectively. The analysis 
population is mITT 
Variable 
The variable is the change from baseline in the participant’s 12-week SBM frequency rate (SBMs/week) 
during the Study Intervention Period as derived from the twice daily eDiary (morning and evening). 
Accounting for Intercurrent Events:  
Intercurrent events and their handling rules are as follows:  
- 
- 
The BMs for the participants who took a laxative, enema, or suppository on the calendar day of 
the BM or the calendar day before the BM will not be considered as SBMs for the analysis. 
 Participants who discontinue prematurely during but prior to the completion of the double-
blind Study Intervention Period will have their eDiary data included up to the morning diary 
following the last dose date for primary endpoint. SBM frequency rate based on included eDiary 
data up to morning diary after last dose date will be considered equivalent to the 12-week SBM 
frequency rate. 
- 
Participants with any intermediate missing diary data during the 12-week study intervention 
period will have their data included as observed. The SBM frequency rate (SBMs/week) will be 
calculated based on the available data (as discussed in Section 16.3.4) and this SBM frequency 
rate will be considered to be equivalent to the rate over the 12-week study intervention period. 
Population-level Summary 
The population-level summary for the primary endpoint is the difference in primary variable means 
between the linaclotide dose arm and placebo based on difference in LSMs from the ANCOVA model in 
main analysis approach. 
3 sensitivity analyses were planned for, one under the assumption of values missing at random (MAR), 
using an MMRM approach) one under the assumption of not-missing-at-random (NMAR), and the third 
analysis with data imputing missing data with worst response. 
Assessor’s comment: 
Planning assumptions and definition and proposed primary evaluation are deemed adequate. The final 
study population using a modified ITT is not really an intent-to-treat evaluation, since study (drug) 
discontinuation before the first entry into the diary post-baseline could be influenced by the study 
drug. However, the validity of the results usually depends on the number of these early 
discontinuations, and since the overall number was small (n=2; see below), this deviation can be 
accepted. The evaluation of the SBM is partly referring to a type of a “composite” estimand, since only 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 12/29 
 
  
 
 
those without rescue intake were included in the counting of the frequency. The premature 
discontinuation handling is resembling of a treatment policy estimand (without clearly spelling it out) 
with the primary evaluation being based on a LOCF evaluation. LOCF, however, could be regarded to 
be problematic, since differential development of the BM frequency could be assumed for active and 
placebo, in case the active is indeed efficacious. However, assuming that placebo is probably without 
relevant effects, it seems sufficiently conservative. Also, the planned sensitivity analyses will give 
additional reassurance. 
It is noted that the reporting of statistical methods is insufficiently included in the submitted CSR. 
Changes in the conduct of the study: 
The original protocol (17 April 2019, 180 subjects randomized) had 1 global amendment, 4 regional 
amendments, and no administrative changes. The amendments and number of subjects enrolled under 
the amendment were as follows: 
- Regional Amendment EU-1 (03 December 2019 0 subjects) 
- Regional Amendment EU-2 (17 April 2020, 0 subjects) 
- Global Amendment 1 (05 June 2020, 134 subjects) 
- Regional Amendment EU-3 (07 August, 2020, 16 subjects) 
- Regional Amendment CA-1 (12 May 2021 0 subjects) 
The protocol changes described in the amendments did not affect the interpretation of the study 
results. 
Assessor’s comment: 
The study report clearly fails to appropriately describe the protocol amendments undertaken and their 
(potential) implications. From the reported numbers of patients, it appears that the recruited subjects 
again refer to the FC population only, which is somewhat counterintuitive since the global amendment 
1 was introducing the recruitment of IBS-C patients also (similar to the EU-3 amendment which was 
introducing the IBS-C population separately for Europe again), and it would be clearer when differential 
numbers for the two indications had been reported. However, considering the final number of 330 
patients included, it is obvious that the total number included in the above statements (180+134+16) 
refer to the FC population only. 
Again, the CSR does not properly include an overview on the changes implemented. 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 13/29 
 
  
 
 
 
Results 
Participant flow 
The study was conducted at 64 sites, in 7 countries. Overall, 1002 subjects were screened, and 159 
subjects discontinued the Screening Period. 
Of the subjects who entered the Pre-intervention Period, 331 subjects completed; the most frequent 
reason for study discontinuation during the Pre-intervention Period was screen failure (433 subjects, 
43.2%). 
The disposition of all randomized subjects is presented in the following table. A total of 330 subjects 
were randomized to receive either placebo or linaclotide 72 μg. The majority (88.8%) of subjects 
completed the Double-blind Study Intervention Period. The most frequent reason for discontinuation 
during the Double-blind Study Intervention Period was withdrawal by subject (12 subjects, 3.6%). 
Overall, 140 (42.4%) subjects completed the post-intervention Period. Note, subjects who rolled over 
to the long-term safety study, Study LIN-MD-66, before the EOS Visit were not required to have this 
visit. Most subjects (258 subjects, 78.2%) signed informed consent for extension study LIN-MD-66. 
Table 2: 
Disposition of Subjects (All Randomized Subjects) 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 14/29 
 
  
 
 
 
A total of 7/164 (4.3%) subjects in the placebo group and 1/164 (0.6%) subject in the linaclotide 
group had study visits impacted by coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) during the study, and 2 
subjects had study drug interruption due to COVID-19. A total of 5/164 (3.0%) subjects in the placebo 
group and 4/164 (2.4%) subjects in the linaclotide group reported treatment-emergent adverse events 
(TEAEs) COVID-19 in the Safety Population. The pandemic did thus not significantly affect the 
enrolment and conduct of the study. 
The following table shows the protocol deviations, during the study. Overall, the number of protocol 
deviations was low. 
Table 3: 
Number (%) of Subjects with Significant Deviations (Randomized 
Population) 
The final randomized population consisted of 164 patients in the placebo, and 166 patients in the 
active treatment group. The mITT population consisted of 164 and 164 patients in the two groups, 
similar to the safety population. Obviously, two patients discontinued from the study before intake of 
the study medication. 
Assessor’s comment: 
As can be seen from the tables, the number of screen failures was considerable, and the reasons are 
not given in this short interim CSR that has been submitted. However, due to the rather strict 
requirements for the presence of symptoms during the introductory phase, this appears to be the main 
reason for not being randomised. 
As seen from the table for disposition, the number of discontinuations was generally low, including 
those patients that have discontinued before the first diary entries (n=2). Also, there was obviously a 
strong adherence to study procedures, intake of medication, etc. since also the number of protocol 
deviations was rather low. 
Baseline data 
Demographics were similar across the treatment groups. Overall, the mean age was 11.1 years, 
55.2% of subjects were female and 44.8% of subjects were male. White and either Black or African 
American subjects accounted for 69.8% and 26.2% of subjects, respectively. Most subjects were not 
Hispanic or Latino (54.9%). The main characteristics are shown in the following table: 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 15/29 
 
  
 
 
 
Table 4: Demographics, mIIT population 
Baseline characteristics were generally balanced between treatment groups. Overall, the mean body 
mass index was 21.81 kg/m2 in the mITT population.  
The mean SBM frequency rate (SBMs/week) was 1.217 and the mean complete spontaneous bowel 
movement (CSBM) frequency rate (CSBMs/week) was 0.565. The mean stool consistency was 2.3, and 
the mean abdominal pain score around 1 (for 24-hour, night-time and daytime scores), similar to 
scores for abdominal bloating. Feacal incontinence scores were at 0.07 at baseline. 
The most common (≥ 5% overall) medical and surgical history ongoing at screening by Medical 
Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) (version 25.0) preferred term (PT) in the Safety 
Population were attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (15.9%), seasonal allergy (14.3%), and asthma 
(12.5%). The most frequently (≥ 5% overall) reported concomitant medication classes in the Safety 
Population were centrally acting sympathomimetics (40/328 subjects [12.2%]), piperazine derivatives 
(26/328 [7.9%]), and selective beta-2-adrenoreceptor agonists (23/328 [7.0%]). 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 16/29 
 
  
 
 
 
The mean dosing compliance was 97.0% for the placebo group and 97.2% for the linaclotide group 
during the Double-blind Study Intervention Period. The extent of exposure is given in the following 
table: 
Table 5: 
Extent of Exposure (Safety Population) 
The mean compliance with completing the eDiary was 87.321% in the placebo group and 84.756% in 
the linaclotide group during the Pre-intervention Period, 67.466% in the placebo group and 63.729% in 
the linaclotide group during the Double-blind Study Intervention Period. 
Assessor’s comment: 
The interim CSR only provides abbreviated reports of the baseline characteristics, however, there 
appear to be no relevant differences between the treatment groups. The reported weekly SBM 
frequency appears to assure a relevantly affected population, similar to the stool consistency. The 
scores for pain and bloating were relevantly lower, and this underpins the importance of the stool-
frequency and –consistency related endpoints.  
The adherence to the electronic diary is somewhat surprisingly low and could of course question the 
overall validity of the results. In case the study had been submitted for a change in the product 
information, this had triggered further questions. For the time being, however, this is taken note of, 
without consequences. 
Efficacy results 
The primary efficacy analysis demonstrated a statistically significant increase in SBM frequency rate for 
subjects in the linaclotide group compared to the placebo group. The least square mean difference 
between the linaclotide and placebo treatment groups for change in overall SBM frequency rate from 
baseline was 1.170 SBMs/week (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.651–1.689; P < 0.0001). Three 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 17/29 
 
  
 
 
 
sensitivity analyses were performed to assess the robustness of ANCOVA based on an observed-cases 
approach with the results confirming the primary analysis (including the “worst-case” analysis). 
Additionally, subgroup analyses of the primary endpoint were conducted for the following categories: 
age group (6 to 11 years group, 12 to 17 years group), region (North American, EU, and other), race 
(white, non-white), and gender (male, female). Subgroups were interpreted with caution due to limited 
sample size within each subgroup category. Efficacy results for the primary endpoint within all 
subgroup analyses were consistent. The 95% CIs for the treatment difference between linaclotide 
versus placebo in each subgroup (except non-white subgroup and region subgroup with < 10 subjects 
in each treatment group for EU and other) excluded zero in favour of the linaclotide 72 μg dose group. 
Table 6: 
12-week SBM frequency rate: Analysis of change from baseline during the 
study intervention period (mITT population) 
The secondary efficacy endpoint for the stool consistency demonstrated a statistically significant 
improvement in stool consistency for subjects in the linaclotide group compared to the placebo group. 
The least square mean difference between the linaclotide and placebo treatment groups was 0.423 
(95% CI, 0.208–0.638; P = 0.0001). The sensitivity analyses with mixed-effects model for repeated 
measures (missing at random) and worst response imputation with ANCOVA model were performed for 
the secondary efficacy endpoint to assess the robustness of the results based on an observed cases 
approach. Similar results for the change from baseline in 12-week stool consistency were observed in 
the 2 sensitivity analyses. 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 18/29 
 
  
 
 
 
The overall results are given in the following table: 
Table 7: 
12-Week Stool Consistency: Summary of Analysis of Change from Baseline 
During the Study Intervention Period (mITT Population) 
The submitted interim CSR does not include the detailed results of the other secondary endpoints, but 
has the results only included as appendix tables. The following reports a selection of these endpdoints: 
Table 8: 
Selected secondary endpoints – mITT population 
Secondary efficacy variable (if not indicated otherwise: 
change from baseline) 
Placebo 
n=164 
Linaclotide 
Difference 
72 µg 
n=164 
(90% CI; p-
value) 
12-week CSBM frequency 
0.901 
1.875 
Overall SBM responder (%) 
33.5 
36.0 
Abdominal pain based on morning and evening 
assessments 
Straining 
-0.337 
-0.404 
-0.818 
-1.128 
Abdominal bloating based on morning and evening 
assessments 
-0.341 
-0.530 
0.955 
(0.508, 1.403) 
<0.0001 
2.4 
(-7.9, 12.7) 
0.6489 
-0.069 
(-0.213, 0.075) 
0.3473 
-0.441  
(-0.652, -0.231 
<0.0001 
-0.161 
(-0.304, -
0.019) 
0.0265 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 19/29 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Proportion of subjects who report using rescue medicine 
(responder, %) 
60.4 
51.8 
-8.5 
(-19.2, 2.2) 
0.1212 
Subjects not fulfilling modified Rome III criteria 
11.0 
11.0 
n.r. 
As an addition to the overall responder rate, the applicant has analysed the weekly SBM responder 
rates, where the linaclotide group showed a greater percentage of subjects in weekly SBM responders 
(defined as a subject who had an SBM increase ≥ 2 in the SBM weekly rate from baseline for any week 
in the Study Intervention Period) compared to the placebo group at Weeks 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 9, 11, and 12 
(nominal P value < 0.05), with weekly SBM responders ranging from 29.7% to 41.4% for the 
linaclotide group and 19.5% to 28.4% for the placebo group. 
The percentage of subjects with at least 1 SBM within 24 or 48 hours after the first dose of study drug 
was higher in the linaclotide group than in the placebo group (nominal P value < 0.05) with 50 
(30.5%) subjects versus 34 (20.7%) subjects having symptom relief (i.e., at least one SBM) within 24 
hours and 93 (56.7%) subjects versus 63 (38.4%) subjects having symptom relief within 48 hours. 
Assessor’s comment: 
The results of the study clearly show that the study was successful in a methodological sense, since 
the primary and key secondary (hierarchically tested in confirmatory manner) endpoints were showing 
highly statistically significant results. However, when considering all endpoints, the results rather 
appear like a “mixed bag” with significant results with regard to the numerical evaluation of bowel-
movement related endpoints (frequency and consistency), but rather poor results when a responder-
type endpoint (such as the SBM responders) were evaluated. A similar picture is derived from the 
other symptoms, when no relevant effects on bloating and abdominal pain are seen, but straining is 
significantly reduced. The rather disappointing part of the results are completed by showing no effect 
on the presence of fulfilment of the Rome III criteria and the overall use of rescue medication. 
The results also have to be seen on the evaluation of the proposed responder thresholds derived in the 
PRO (PFCSD) validation exercise, which determined the SBM frequency responder threshold a 2.0 
(which was then used in the responder analysis as above), the CSBM responder threshold at 1.0 (thus, 
the mean change was very close to the responder threshold, which appears to be a relevant change 
overall), for abdominal pain and bloating at (lowest threshold proposed) -0.4 (the mean changes were 
less than -0.1 in both symptoms, which consequently appears to be clinically not relevant), for 
straining at -0.60 (the mean change was about -0.4, and it remains unclear whether this is relevant, 
and would need a responder analysis), and for stool consistency at 0.7 to 1.3 (in the results, not even 
the lower threshold was achieved for the mean change (which was around 0.4), but this would also 
need to be evaluated in a responder analyses to put the result into context). 
In summary, while the study is successful for its primary and key secondary endpoints, there remain 
relevant doubts about the clinical relevance of the treatment effects. Also the effects of the treatment 
appear to be restricted to the influence on bowel movements (frequency and consistency), and the 
symptoms associated with stooling (straining), but rather minor effects on associated symptoms such 
as bloating and abdominal pain. This is not really surprising, since the baseline severity of these 
symptoms were not very high, and the symptoms rather play a minor role in functional constipation 
overall. 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 20/29 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Since the applicant does not draw any consequences for the EU product information, it is currently not 
considered necessary to request additional analyses, or argumentation on clinical relevance of the 
treatment effects.  
Treatment of functional constipation even in minors is not a field of unmet medical need, and the 
decision of the applicant not to pursue the FC indication, neither in adults nor in children can therefore 
be accepted. 
Subgroup analyses: 
Additionally, subgroup analyses of the primary and secondary endpoints were conducted for the 
following categories: age group (6 to 11 years group, 12 to 17 years group), region (North American, 
EU, and other), race (white, non-white), and gender (male, female). Subgroup analyses results should 
be interpreted with caution due to limited sample size within each subgroup category. Efficacy results 
for the primary and secondary endpoints within all subgroup analyses were consistent. The 95% CIs 
for the treatment difference between linaclotide versus placebo in each subgroup (except non-white 
subgroup. 
Safety results 
For the exposure, it is referred to the above table 5, which demonstrates that exposure was quite 
similar in the two treatment groups. The safety was evaluated in the safety population, and included 
AEs, AEs of special interest (AESIs), laboratory parameters, and vital signs (including ECG). 
Adverse events. 
The overall number and percentage of subjects who reported AEs are summarized in the following 
table. AEs were reported for 28 subjects (17.1%) in the linaclotide group and for 35 subjects (21.3%) 
in the placebo group. The majority of AEs in each treatment group were non-serious. Treatment-
emergent serious adverse events (TESAEs) were reported for 2 subjects (1.2%) in the linaclotide 
group and 2 subjects (1.2%) in the placebo group. 
AEs leading to study treatment discontinuation were reported for 2 subjects (1.2%) in the linaclotide 
group and for 3 subjects (1.8%) in the placebo group. No AEs leading to death were reported. 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 21/29 
 
  
 
 
 
Table 9:  
Overall Number (%) of Subjects with AEs (Safety Population)
The following table displays the TEAEs occurring in more than 1 patient (=1.2%) according to SOC and 
PT. 
Table 10: 
TEAEs occurring in more than 1 patient: Number (%) of participants (SOC and 
PT); safety population: 
System Organ Class 
Preferred Term 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Infections and Infestations 
COVID-19 
Influenza 
Upper resp.tract infection 
Pharyngitis streptococcal 
Nervous system disorders 
Headache 
Investigations 
SARS-Cov-2 test pos. 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Cough 
Placebo (n=164) 
Linaclotide 72 µg, n=164 
7 (4.3) 
3 (1.8) 
0 
2 (1.2) 
15 (9.1) 
5 (3.0) 
2 (1.2) 
2 (1.2) 
2 (1.2) 
4 (2.4) 
2 (1.2) 
4 (2.4) 
3 (1.8) 
4 (2.4) 
3 (1.8) 
11 (6.7) 
7 (4.3) 
2 (1.2) 
0 
9 (5.5) 
4 (2.4) 
1 (0.6) 
1 (0.6) 
1 (0.6) 
2 (1.2) 
2 (1.2) 
2 (1.2) 
0 
2 (1.2) 
1 (0.6) 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 22/29 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oropharyngeal pain 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Pyrexia 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Reproductive system and breast 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
Renal and urinary disorders 
2 (1.2) 
4 (2.4) 
2 (1.2) 
2 (1.2) 
0 
0 
2 (1.2) 
2 (1.2) 
1 (0.6) 
1 (0.6) 
1 (0.6) 
0 
2 (1.2) 
2 (1.2) 
0 
1 (0.6) 
1 (0.6) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
As seen from the table, the most frequent AEs were diarrhoea in the linaclotide group, and COVID-19 
in the placebo group. 
The most frequent treatment-related TEAE reported during the intervention period by PT was diarrhea 
reported in 2/164 (1.2%) subjects in the placebo group and 6/164 (3.7%) in the linaclotide group. The 
overview on the related TEAEs is given in the following table: 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 23/29 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11: 
Treatment-related TEAEs: Number (%) of subjects by SOC and PT (safety 
population) 
The majority of TEAEs reported were considered mild or moderate in severity. Overall, 2/164 (1.2%) 
subjects in the placebo group and 3/164 (1.8%) subjects in the linaclotide group experienced severe 
TEAEs during the study. Severe TEAEs of suicide attempt and suicidal ideation were reported in the 
placebo group and diarrhoea, faecaloma, pulmonary artery stenosis, and dehydration were reported in 
the linaclotide group. Severe events of diarrhoea and dehydration were reported in 1 subject and were 
considered by the investigator to be related to study drug 
There were no deaths during the study. 
Overall, a total of 4/328 (1.2%) subjects reported ≥ 1 TESAEs: 2/164 (1.2%) in the placebo group and 
2/164 (1.2%) in the linaclotide group. TESAEs of suicide attempt (in 2 subjects) and suicidal ideation 
were reported in the placebo group, and diarrhoea and faecaloma were reported in the linaclotide 
group. All serious adverse events (SAEs) were considered not related to study drug, except for a 
TESAE of diarrhoea in 1 subject in the linaclotide group. 
This subject was a 17 year old female who developed diarrhoea after 10 days of active treatment. The 
medical history of the subject included chronic constipation, IBS, ovarian cysts, eczema, migraine, 
allergies (food, chemicals), generalized anxiety disorder, and urinary tract infection. Concomitant 
medication included aripiprazole, sertraline, Senna, macrogol, sex hormone preparations, and 
fluconazole. After 10 days of treatment, the subject experienced severe diarrhoea, and study 
medication intake was stopped.  The patient was hospitalized for 1 day. 
Subject presented to ER with dizziness, headache and nausea in the setting of approximately 1.5-week 
history of diarrhoea after starting the study drug. The subject reported the diarrhoea started the same 
day as starting the study drug with 3-5 episodes of diarrhoea per day, occasionally bloody, but more 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 24/29 
 
  
 
 
 
 
streaks. The subject began feeling lightheaded, dizzy, nausea and dehydrated 2 day later. Initially she 
was able to eat, but over the past week she had reported decreasing intake due to nausea. The subject 
also endorsed intermittent burning urination since starting the medication. Physical examination 
revealed no findings, and the patient was treated with IV fluids for dehydration. There were no 
relevant laboratory value abnormalities except for low bicarbonate (see also below). No signs for 
infection were detected. The diarrhoea continued but improved during hospital stay and she was 
discharged the next day. 5 days later the patient presented again in the clinical and was well. The 
event was considered resolved. 
Assessor’s comment: 
The assessment of the relatedness of the SAEs is agreed with. The event of faecaloma (occurring at 
about 1 month of treatment) is of course related to the underlying disease, but somehow also 
expresses a treatment failure. 
Overall, 5/328 (1.5%) subjects (3/164 (1.8%) subjects in the placebo group and 2/164 (1.2%) 
subjects in the linaclotide group) experienced AEs leading to discontinuation of study drug. TEAEs 
leading to discontinuation of study drug in the placebo group were suicide attempt (in 2 subjects), 
suicidal ideation, and COVID-19. TEAEs leading to discontinuation of study drug in the linaclotide group 
were diarrhoea, faecaloma, nausea, and dehydration. 
AESIs (i.e., significant volume depletion and/or significant electrolyte abnormalities and/or ECG 
abnormalities that were considered by the investigator or sponsor to be related to diarrhoea) were 
reported for 1/164 (0.6%) subject in the linaclotide group during the study. The 17-year-old subject 
experienced severe diarrhoea which led to hospitalization accompanied by dehydration on Day 10 of 
double-blind intervention period, requiring intravenous fluids (the case described above). The AESI was 
reported as resolved without sequalae on Day 11 and led to study discontinuation. 
Laboratory evaluations: 
The incidences of laboratory test results that were identified as potentially clinically significant (PCS) 
based on the criteria defined in the SAP are presented in the following table. There were no 
unexpected changes of clinical relevance in the study. The most frequent (occurring in ≥ 5 subjects) 
PCS values were observed for albumin (> 1.1 × upper limit of normal [ULN]) and monocytes absolute 
cell count (< 0.5× ULN), neither of which was associated with concomitant reports of diarrhoea. There 
was a clinically significant low value of bicarbonate for a subject following an event of diarrhoea that 
met AESI criteria. 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 25/29 
 
  
 
 
Table 12: 
Number of Subjects with Potentially Clinically Significant Postbaseline    
Laboratory Values During the Double-blind Intervention Period (Safety   
Population) 
Vital signs: 
Descriptive statistics for height, vital signs (ie, temperature, body weight, respiratory rate [RR], and 
supine pulse rate, supine systolic and diastolic blood pressure [BP]) and changes from baseline values 
were evaluated. There were no unexpected changes of clinical relevance. 
The incidences of all vital sign parameters that were identified as PCS based on the criteria defined in 
the SAP are presented in the following table. 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 26/29 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13: 
Number of subjects with PCS post-baseline vital sign values during the double-
blind intervention period (safety population). 
The incidences of ECG parameters that were identified as PCS based were evaluated on the criteria 
defined in the SAP and included PR interval, QRS duration, and QTcF inverval. No subjects experienced 
PCS postbaseline ECG parameters of QRS duration, PR interval, or QTcF interval. 
The applicant concludes that linaclotide is well tolerated in paediatric subjects with a safety profile 
consistent with prior linaclotide studies in adults with CIC and IBS-C. There were no new safety signals 
observed in paediatric subjects. Overall, linaclotide was well tolerated across 6 to 17-year-olds. 
Assessor’s comment: 
The overall conclusions of the study report are agreed with. The known safety profile of the compound 
has been confirmed in the paediatric FC population. 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 27/29 
 
  
 
 
 
Discussion on clinical aspects 
The applicant has submitted an interim analysis of the efficacy and safety study in children aged 6-17 
LIN-MD-64. While this study included both FC as well as IBS-C patients, the submitted study report 
includes the evaluation of the patients with FC only. 
The study included a patient population with functional constipation at the start of the study, which can 
be considered representative of an FC population in need for pharmaceutical treatment, and the 
inclusion criteria, as well as procedures for evaluation of the fulfilment of the study inclusion criteria 
are considered appropriate. 
The study was a 3-month, placebo-controlled study, which evaluated as main endpoints the frequency 
and consistency of bowel movements. Both the choice of the primary endpoints, as well as the mode of 
evaluation are considered appropriate. Secondary endpoints also included additional symptoms of or 
associated with constipation such as straining at defaecation, bloating and abdominal pain. 
The results of the study indicated an overall treatment success with clear (statistically significant) 
effects on the frequency of bowel movements (both those being SBMs as well as CSBMs) and on stool 
consistency. However, the overall results are currently not considered full convincing with regard to 
their clinical meaningfulness. This refers to the stool consistency (where the mean difference was far 
from the minimally important difference determined for this parameter) and the results of the 
evaluation of the associated symptoms, for which partially non-significant results were achieved. While 
the latter can be partly be attributed to the fact that symptoms such as bloating and abdominal pain 
do not play a prominent role in FC, there are even concerns on the clinical relevance of the main 
results, since a responder evaluation even in the most clearly statistically significant endpoint, the SBM 
rate, not only missed statistical significance, but also did not show a clinically relevant difference to 
placebo. 
The applicant has overall submitted only an abbreviated study report, which does not fully display the 
results in appropriate manner, and refers to a high extent to appendix tables and displays only. 
Similarly, the submitted clinical overview is only a very brief and rather uncritical document. This is 
both probably owed to the fact that the applicant does not intend to implement any changes into the 
European license for the compound, which is currently licensed for the treatment of IBS-C in adults 
only. There is obviously no intent to market the compound also in functional constipation, neither in 
adults nor in children. This decision can be accepted based on the fact that there is clearly no unmet 
medical need whatsoever for the treatment of functional constipation both for adults as well as 
children. Therefore, the “no-consequence” conclusions of the applicant are accepted. 
The results of the patients included with IBS-C into study LIN-MD-64, however, may potentially need 
re-consideration for changes of the product information, and are awaited. 
The safety evaluation of the presented study mainly confirmed the known safety profile of the 
compound with the mainstay of adverse reactions related to the local effects in the gastrointestinal 
tract. There was one serious event of special interested, which was a case of severe diarrhoea in an 
adolescent being hospitalised. Nevertheless, the overall rate of adverse events and adverse reactions 
was low during the study, and the safety results of the study do overall not influence the risk-benefit 
profile in the licensed indication. 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 28/29 
 
  
 
 
 
 
4.  Overall conclusion 
The applicant has submitted the results of an interim evaluation of study LIN-MD-64 which is a 
randomised, double-blind efficacy and safety study in children and adolescents aged 6-17 with 
functional constipation or IBS-C. For the purpose of this interim evaluation, the results of the FC 
population only were submitted.  The study was formally a successful study with regard to efficacy, 
however, would need further evaluation with regard to the evaluation of clinical meaningfulness of the 
study results, in case the applicant would have proposed changes to the currently approved product 
information in the EU, which is, however, not the case. The safety evaluation in this study was rather 
unremarkable, and confirmed an acceptable safety profile in the paediatric population for a treatment 
duration of 3 months. The safety profile appears to be overall very similar to the known safety profile 
of the compound in adults. 
The indication functional constipation is not licensed in the EU, and the applicant does obviously not 
pursue this indication in the EU neither for adults, nor for the paediatric population. 
The submission is therefore correctly presented as having no consequences for the existing license in 
the EU. 
The overall benefit-risk ratio remains unchanged. 
  PAM fulfilled 
EMA/219112/2023  
Page 29/29 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
