29 May  2019 
EMA/260767/2019  
Human  Medicines  Evaluation  Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Constella  
linaclotide 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/002490/P46/013 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all  information of a commercially  confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
A n agenc y of the E uropean U nion   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ...................................................................................... 3 
2. Scientific discussion ........................................................................... 3 
2.1. Information on the development program ...............................................................3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study ...............................3 
2.3. Clinical aspects ....................................................................................................3 
2.3.1. Introduction ......................................................................................................3 
2.3.2. Clinical study LIN-MD-62 ....................................................................................4 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 19 
3. Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation .........................19 
  Fulfilled: ................................................................................................................ 20 
4. Additional clarification requested .......................................................20 
Annex. Line listing of all the studies included in the development  program
 ............................................................................................................21 
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 2/21 
 
  
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 13th March, 2019, the MAH submitted  one completed paediatric  study for Constella,  in accordance 
with Article  46 of Regulation  (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical  expert overview, dated 26th February 2019 has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information  on the development  program 
The MAH stated that LIN-MD-62 (A Multicenter,  Randomized, Double-blind,  Placebo-controlled, 
Parallel-group,  Safety and  Efficacy Study  of a Range of Linaclotide  Doses Administered  Orally  to 
Children,  Ages 6 to 17 Years, Who Fulfill  Modified  Rome III  Criteria  for Child/Adolescent  Functional 
Constipation is a standalone study. 
LIN-MD-62 is Measure 3 of the agreed PIP  EMEA-000927-PIP01-10-M03. The PIP consists of 9 
measures in  total, of which 7 concern clinical  measures. The measure 3 is the first step mentioned in 
the PIP. 
2.2.  Information  on the pharmaceutical  formulation  used in the study 
The pharmaceutical  formulation  used in  the study were either  capsules  for oral administration  which 
contain 28, 36, 72, or 145 µg linaclotide  or oral solution  containing  9 or 36 µg linaclotide  per ml,  used 
in  doses of 9, 18, 72, or 145 µg linaclotide  (=doses up to 4 ml). 
2.3.  Clinical  aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Marketing  authorization for Constella  was granted  by the EMA on 26 Nov 2012 for the treatment of 
moderate to severe IBS-C in  adults.  The indication  functional  constipation  is licensed  in  other regions 
of the world, but not in  the EU.  The only pharmaceutical  form and strength  available  are capsules  with 
a content of 290 µg linaclotide. 
The applicant  states that there are no regulatory  consequences identified  by the MAH with this  study. 
There are no new data that change or result  in  a new benefit/risk  evaluation.  Consequently,  no 
changes were made to the PI. 
Assessor’s comment: 
The submitted  report appears to have limited  importance for the current  license  of the substance of 
the product Constella,  which is  licensed  for a different  indication  (IBS-C  instead of FC), as well  as a 
higher  dose (290 µg instead  of 145 µg, as licensed  for FC in  other regions of the world). 
The PIP  EMEA-000927-PIP01-10-M03 did indeed  only include  measures and studies to develop the 
compound in the treatment of FC for children,  but not in IBS.  Consequences with regard  to labelling 
the product currently  licensed  in  the EU would therefore be rather guided  by results  on the safety, but 
not by results  on efficacy.  This  AR therefore includes  only the most important features and results  of 
the study.  
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 3/21 
 
  
 
 
The conclusion  of the applicant  is therefore agreed with from a formal point of view, pending  the 
evaluation  of safety from the submitted  study (see below). 
The MAH submitted  one final  report(s) for: 
• 
LIN-MD-62: A Multicenter,  Randomized, Double-blind,  Placebo-controlled,  Parallel-group, 
Safety and Efficacy  Study of a Range of Linaclotide  Doses Administered  Orally  to Children,  Ages 6 to 17 
Years, Who Fulfill  Modified  Rome III  Criteria  for Child/Adolescent  Functional  Constipation. 
2.3.2.  Clinical  study LIN-MD-62 
Clinical  study number and title 
Study LIN-MD-62 is termed: A Multicenter,  Randomized, Double-blind,  Placebo-controlled,  Parallel-
group, Safety and Efficacy  Study of a Range of Linaclotide  Doses Administered  Orally  to Children,  Ages 
6 to 17 Years,  Who Fulfill  Modified  Rome III  Criteria  for Child/Adolescent  Functional  Constipation (FC). 
Description 
This  was a multicenter,  randomized, double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-group,  safety and 
efficacy dose-ranging  study in pediatric  participants  with chronic  constipation. 
Methods 
Objective(s) 
The objectives of this study were to evaluate  the dose response, safety, and efficacy of 4 weeks of 
treatment with 1 of 3 linaclotide  doses (A, B, or C) or 145 μg (as an exploratory objective in adolescent 
participants  12 to 17 years of age using  the approved adult  dose) compared with placebo in  pediatric 
participants  6 to 17 years of age who fulfill  modified  Rome III  criteria  for pediatric  FC. 
Assessor’s comment: 
No specific  comment on objectives, which  appear adequate.  This  is obviously an explorative  study, and 
a treatment duration  of 4 weeks in  children  with FC can thus be considered adequate. 
Study design 
This  clinical  study was a multicenter,  randomized, double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-group, 
safety and efficacy  study comparing  1 of 3 linaclotide  doses (A, B, and C) or linaclotide  145 μg (only 
participants  12 to 17 years of age) with placebo in  pediatric  participants  6 to 17 years of age with a 
diagnosis  of FC based on modified  Rome III  Child/Adolescent  Criteria  (ie,  who fulfill  modified  Rome III 
criteria  for pediatric  FC). The study was to include  a total of 6 visits  and was approximately  9 to 12 
weeks in  duration. 
The study included  a 2-week screening  period,  which tested evavluated the eligibility  criteria,  and 
tested the ability  of the potential  participants  (those in  the age 12-17 years) to swallow the capsule 
formulation.  During  the screening  period,  the participants  and all  caregivers  also received  information 
about lifestyle  modifications  (increased  water and fiber  intake,  increased  physical  activity,  and 
consistent toileting  habits).  A minimum  of a 2-week interval  between discussing  the lifestyle 
modifications  during  the Screening  Period and the participant’s  entry into the Pretreatment Period was 
required.  The following  pre-treatment period of 1 week mainly  consisted of making participants  and 
cargivers  familiar  with the use and handling  of the e-diary  (including  clarification  if the patient  or the 
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 4/21 
 
  
 
 
 
caregiver  would handle  the device). Additionally,  caregivers  of participants  6 to 11 years of age were 
trained  on completing  the observer-completed global  items once weekly on the e-diary.  Participants 
and caregivers  were provided  instructions  regarding  fasting  to ensure  the participants  had fasted for at 
least 2 hours before receiving  their  first  dose of study treatment at the study site during  the 
Randomization Visit  (Visit  3/Day 1). 
The double  blind  treatment period was of 3 weeks duration  and included  3 study visits (one visit  at first 
drug  intake,  one after two weeks, and one after the end of treatment). 
A post-treatment period of at least 1 week duration  followed with the fainal  end-of-study visit 
scheduled  at least 7 days after the week 4 visit. 
Randomization was stratified  by age group (6 to 11 or 12 to 17 years of age) with  a minimum  of 40% 
of participants  within  each age group. Participants  6 to 11 years of age were randomized to linaclotide 
doses (A, B, or C) or placebo in  a 1:1:1:1 allocation.  Participants  12 to 17 years of age were 
randomized to linaclotide  doses (A, B, or C, or the approved adult  dose, 145 μg) or placebo in  a 
1:1:1:1:1 allocation. 
Dosages were given  as follows:  
- 
Participants  6 to 11 years of age (weight 18 to < 35 kg) 
o Dose A: 9 μg 
o Dose B: 18 μg 
o Dose C: 36 μg 
- 
Participants  6 to 11 years of age (weight ≥ 35 kg) or 12 to 17 years of age 
o Dose A: 18 μg 
o Dose B: 36 μg 
o Dose C: 72 μg 
- 
Approved adult  dose: 145 μg (for participants  12 to 17 years of age only) 
Study population  /Sample size 
Approximately  160 participants  were planned  to be enrolled  with a minimum  of 40% of participants  per 
age group (6 to 11 years and 12 to 17 years). A total of 173 were enrolled  and  randomized to receive 
1 of the 3 linaclotide  doses. All  were included  in  the intent-to-treat (ITT) and  safety populations.  The 
following  table  shows the distribution  of the patients  in the different  dosing groups:
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 5/21 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table  1: Number of participants  (planned  and enrolled)  in the dose-groups: 
Treatments 
Patients received  identically  appearing  bottles containing  18 μg,  26 µg,  72 µg,  or 145 µg capsules,  and 
9µg/ml or 36 µg/ml  oral solution or matching  placebo capsules  or oral solution.  For the doses 
administered:  See above. 
Rescue medication was provided with senna or bisacodyl  (oral or rectal). The dosing  scheme is  again 
shown in  the following  table: 
Table  2: Double-blind  dosing regimen: 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary  efficacy assessments used to determine the change from baseline  in  4-week overall SBM 
frequency  rate during  the Treatment Period (primary  efficacy endpoint)  were the occurrences of 
“Satisfactory Bowel Movements” (SBMs) based on the assessment of overall  BM frequency  and rescue 
medication  use as recorded in  the e-diary.  A SBM was defined  as a BM that occurred in  the absence of 
laxative,  suppository, or enema use on the calendar  day of the BM or the calendar  day before the BM. 
Participants  reported their  BM frequency  (the number  of BMs during  the corresponding  e-diary interval 
period) and their  use of rescue medication  by responding  to corresponding  questions  in the morning 
and evening  e-diary.  The submitted study report also states that the e-diary was developed and 
validity  for content validity  in  the anticipated  age group. 
The following  6 secondary endpoints  were evaluated: 
1. Abdominal  Pain  - Daytime: Participants  rated their  abdominal  pain  in  the evening  eDiary. 
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 6/21 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
2. Stool Consistency (Pediatric  Bristol  Stool Form Scale [p-BSFS]): Stool consistency of each BM was 
based on the p-BSFS. Participants  used the p-BSFS 7-point ordinal  scale to rate their  stool consistency 
for each BM in  the morning  and evening  eDiary. 
3. Straining  With Bowel Movement: Participants  assessed the degree of straining  for each BM in  the 
morning  and evening  eDiary  . 
4. Abdominal  bloating  - Daytime: Participants  recorded their  assessment of abdominal  bloating  in the 
evening  eDiary. 
5. CSBM/Incomplete Evacuation:  A CSBM was an SBM that was associated with a sense of complete 
evacuation. Participants  recorded their  assessment of the sensation of incomplete evacuation for each 
BM in  the morning and  evening  eDiary  . 
6. Fecal Incontinence  - Daytime: Participants  recorded their  episodes of fecal  incontinence  in  the 
evening  eDiary  following  the implementation  of Protocol Amendment 3. 
A number of additional  efficacy  assessments were also included,  assessing  night-time  abdominal  pain, 
abdominal  bloating,  Quality  of Life,  global  assessments (caregiver and  patients),  and responders. 
The study also included  the collection  of blood samples at the randomisation  visit  (3 blood draws at 1-2 
hours post-dose, at 3-4 hours post-dose, and at 6-8 hours post-dose) and  at the two-week visit  (one 
blood draw 8-24 hours post-dose). 
Assessor’s comment: 
No further  statements on the validation  of the e-diary  and the endpoint  used (especially  for the smaller 
children)  are included.  Usually,  it would be expected that validation  data on the methods used to 
assess the primary  endpoint  would be fully  submitted.  However, due to the limited  relevance  with 
regard  to the current EU MA of the trial  submitted,  this  is considered  a minor issue. 
Overall,  the primary  and secondary endpoints used appear  to be adequate  for the population 
envisaged.   
Statistical  Methods 
For the primary  efficacy endpoint,  comparison between each linaclotide  dose (Dose A, B, and C) and 
placebo was performed using  an ANCOVA model with treatment and age group (6 to 11 or 12 to 17 
years of age) as factors and baseline  value  as a covariate. Least squares means (LSMs) for each 
treatment group,  differences  in  LSMs between each linaclotide  treatment group (Dose A, B, and C) 
versus placebo, associated 2-sided 95% CIs) for these differences  in  LSMs, and the corresponding 
statistical  test p-values were reported. Treatment-by-age group interaction  was investigated  as an 
exploratory analysis  to assess the homogeneity of treatment effects across age groups. Sensitivity 
analyses (missing  at random, not missing  at random, imputing  worse response for postbaseline 
missing  response, and excluding  participants  impacted  by e-diary  malfunction  issue  to assess  
robustness of the primary  analysis  ANCOVA in the presence of missing  data were performed 
To understand  the dose-response relationship,  a test for linear  dose-response trend was explored for 
the primary  efficacy endpoint  based on the ordinal  dosing for the placebo and linaclotide  Dose A, B, 
and C groups using  orthogonal polynomial  contrast. Further,  dose-response trend (eg, quadratic  trend) 
was explored  if the linear  trend  was not clearly  indicated.  Cumulative  distribution  function  plots were 
provided  for primary  efficacy endpoint  by treatment group 
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 7/21 
 
  
 
 
 
The primary  efficacy endpoint  was also summarized descriptively  within  each age group by treatment 
group. For the summaries of the 6 to 11 years of age group, linaclotide  doses (A, B, and C) and 
placebo were included.  For the summaries of the 12 to 17 years of age group, linaclotide  doses (A, B, 
and C), the adult  approved dose 145 μg, and  placebo were included. 
The planned  sample size was designed  for the overall analysis  of the placebo and the linaclotide  A, B, 
and C dose groups,  with 35 participants  per treatment group (140 participants  in  total for the overall 
analysis).  With inclusion  of 14 to 19 participants  who were 12 to 17 years of age for the linaclotide 
approved adult  dose (145 μg), the planned  sample size was approximately  160 participants.  Based on 
the analyses of each previous linaclotide  adult  study (ie, including  the 72, 145, and  290 μg  doses in 
MCP-103-201, 145 and 290 μg in  LIN-MD-01 and MCP-103-303, and 145 and  290 μg  in LIN-MD-04) in 
CIC with the change  from baseline  in  4-week overall SBM frequency  rate during  the Treatment Period 
as the efficacy endpoint,  the range  of mean treatment differences  between pooled linaclotide  doses 
and placebo was 1.7 to 2.6 (approximately).  The standard  deviations  were between 3.0 and 3.5 in 
those studies.  Assuming  the SBM response in  the 6- to 17-year-old population  was to be similar  to the 
adult  population,  it was assumed that the treatment effect in  this study would fall  around the middle  of 
the range (approximately  2.2) observed in  the adult  population.  With a standard deviation  of 3.2, the 
planned  sample size of 35 participants  per treatment group in  this study would have had 80% power to 
detect treatment difference  of 2.2 in  the primary  efficacy endpoint  at the 5% level  of significance  (2-
sided).  With  the observed common standard  deviation  of 3.2, the minimum  observed treatment 
difference  to achieve statistical  significance  would be about 1.5 (at 2-sided 5% level  of significance 
with 35 participants  per treatment group). 
There were 4 populations  used for analyses of data from this  study as follows: 
- The screened population  included  all  participants  who underwent  the Screening  visit  (Visit  1) and 
received  a participant  identification  number. 
- The randomized population  included  all  participants  in  the screened population  who were randomized 
to a treatment group in  the study. 
- The safety population  included  all  participants  in  the randomized population  who took at least 1 dose 
of doubleblind  study treatment. 
- The ITT  population  consisted of all  participants  in the safety population  who had at least 1 
postbaseline  entry on BM characteristic  assessments that determined  occurrences of SBMs (ie,  BM 
frequency  and rescue medication use). 
Assessor’s comment: 
The analysis  was appropriate  to compare the three dose groups to placebo. However, no multiplicity 
adjustment was used.  In  any case, this appears irrelevant  since no significant  difference  to placebo 
could be found. Furthermore, and this  may be seen as more relevant  in  a pure dose finding  study, a 
linear  trend  test based on the ordinal  dosing  was performed, with further  testing of an additional 
quadratic  term which investigates  a potential  deviation  from the linear  model. Another dose response 
model or the suitability  on a linear  model based on the ordinal  dosing was not investigated  or 
discussed.  Although  due to the results of the trend test and that on the quadratic  term a different 
conclusion  does not appear to be likely,  the use of a different  dose-response model (e.g. incorporating 
the age and weight  group and other functional  dose response relationship)  may have been suited for 
further  investigation.  None of the secondary endpoint  were investigated  with respect to a linear  dose 
response, which also does not appear to be relevant  due the lack of a significant  trend in  the primary 
endpoint. 
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 8/21 
 
  
 
 
 
Results 
Recruitment/  Number  analysed 
471 participants  were screened at 52 study centres (all  in  the United  States). 97.7% of these entered 
the pre-treatment period  after completion of the scrrening.  Of the participants  who entered the pre-
treatment period,  over 50% discontinued  during  the pre-treatment period.  The most frequent  reason 
for discontinuation  during  the pre-treatment period  was screen failure  (214 participants  (45.4%)). The 
following  table  shows the numbers of patients  screened, included  in  pre-treatment and reasons for 
exclusion,  according  to age range: 
Table  3: 
Screening  and pre-treatment completion and discontinuation   
The overall  recruitment  and conduct of the trial  was taking  place between 3rd Novfembrer 2015 (first 
patient  screened) and 29th May 2018 (last patietn completed). 
As already  displayed  above, 173 participants  were finally  included,  of which 93.6% completed thet 
traetment period.  The most frequent  reason for discontinuation  durign  the treatment period was 
withdrawal  of consent (2.3%). 3 participants  discontinued  due to AEs. The overview on subject 
dispostions is shown in  the following  table: 
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 9/21 
 
  
 
 
 
Table  4:  
Participant  Completion and discontinuation  (randomised population): 
Baseline  data 
Across the placebo and linaclotide  Dose A, B, and C treatment groups in  the safety population,  the 
mean age was 11.0 years. Overall  (not including  linaclotide  dose 145 μg), 54.1% of participants  were 
female and 45.9% of participants  were male, and the majority were white (76.4%) and not Hispanic  or 
Latino (77.1%). Mean body weight was 50.32 kg and mean BMI  was 22.40 kg/m2.  
In  the 6 to 11 years of age group, mean weight  was 37.01 kg and mean BMI was 20.03 kg/m2, with 
57.8% of participants  weighing  between 18 to < 35 kg and 42.2% of participants  weighing  ≥ 35 kg at 
the Randomization visit  (Visit  3). In  the 12 to 17 years of age group, mean weight was 68.97 kg and 
mean BMI  was 25.81 kg/m2 (Table  10–7). In  both age subgroups, the other baseline  characteristics 
(sex, race, and ethnicity)  were similar  to that observed for the overall safety population. 
The baseline  demographics in  the different  dose groups (with the exception o fthe 145 µg  dose group) 
are displayed  in  the following  table: 
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 10/21 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table  5: 
Baseline  demographics 
The 16 patients  included  into the 145 µg  dose group had a mean age of 14.7 years, of which 6 were 
aged 12-13, and 10 aged 15-17. Both genders were represented  by 50% of the participants,  and the 
majority of the patients were white (68.8%), and “not Hispanic  or latino” (75%). The mean weight was 
72.2 kg, and the mean BMI  26.8 Kg/m2. No relevant  difference  could be detected in  comparison to the 
other dose groups when restricting  these to those aged 12-17 (data not shown separately). 
Across all  of the treatment groups, mean study treatment compliance  was ≥ 96.46% during  the4-week 
Treatment Period. Results  were similar  across the treatment groups in  the 6 to 11 and 12 to 17 years 
of age groups within  the safety population. 
Across all  of the treatment groups, mean compliance  with completing  the e-diary  was ≥ 83.91% during 
the pre-treatment period,  ≥ 72.62% in  the Treatment Period,  and ≥ 65.50% during  the post-treatment 
Period.  There was an issue with  the e-diary  malfunction  at a certain  time-point during  the trial:  A total 
of 14 randomized participants  who had eligibility  reports were impacted by this  issue.  Participants  who 
were impacted by the e-diary  malfunction  issues and were not able to complete the evening  eDiary 
during  the affected period were considered  noncompliant for the days that were impacted. 
A second issue  with the e-diary  malfunction  was due to incorrect  programming  by e-diary  vendor. 
wherein  weekly participant-completed  questions were not available  for 51 participants  in  the 6 to 11 
years of age group if  the sites selected the interviewer  administered  format mode of e-diary 
administration.  In  addition,  interviewer-completed  weekly questions were made available  to 5 
participants  in the 12 to 17 years of age group,  which was inconsistent  with the protocol. 
Efficacy  results 
For the primary  and key secondary endpoints,  none of the 3 linaclotide  doses  indicated  clear 
improvement over placebo (p-value  ≥ 0.1502) based on the ITT  population.  However, a numerical 
trend toward efficacy at the higher  doses was observed for the primary  endpoint  of change from 
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 11/21 
 
  
 
 
 
baseline  in  4-week overall SBM frequency  rate (SBMs/week). The main  results of the study are 
displayed  in  the following  table: 
Table  6: 
Key efficacy  results  (ITT population) 
In  the linaclotide  145 µg group (which only included  participants  12 to 17 years of age), change  from 
baseline  in  4-week overall SBM frequency  rate was 2.623 SBMs/week (SD = 4.108) compared to 1.788 
SBMs/week (SD = 2.891) for participants  12 to 17 years of age in  the placebo group. 
The treatment effects in  the difernt  age groups was not relevantly  different  based on exploratory 
analysis  of treatment-by-age group interaction. 
Similar  results  for the change  from baseline  in  4-week overall  SBM frequency  rate were observed in  4 
sensitivity  analyses  using  different  methods of missing  data imputation  (missing  at random, not 
missing  at random, imputing  based on worst response, and excluding  participants  impacted  by e-diary 
malfunction  issue). Similar  results  for the change from baseline  in 4-week overall  SBM frequency  rate 
were also observed in  an analysis  using  an alternative  SBM definition  (defined  as a BM that occurred in 
the absence of laxative,  enema, or suppository use in  the current  and previous  4 scheduled  e-diary 
intervals)  based on the ITT  population. 
The results  of further  secondary endpoints are shown in  the following  table: 
Table  7: 
Summary of secondary endpoints  related  to severity of straining,  daytime abdominal 
bloating,  and daytime faecal  incontinence  (ITT  population). 
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 12/21 
 
  
 
 
 
Responder analysis  with “weekly SBM+1 response” (a weekly SBM + 1 responder was a participant 
who had a SBM increase  ≥ 1 in  the SBM weekly rate from baseline  for that week. If  a participant  did 
not complete at least 4 morning  and evening  assessments on the same day in  the eDiary  for a 
particular  Treatment Period week, the participant  was not considered a weekly SBM + 1 responder for 
that week) are shown in  the following  table:   
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 13/21 
 
  
 
 
 
Table  8: 
Weekly SBM+1 responder during  the treatment period  (ITT  population). 
The evaluation  of the number  of patients with such a response in  3 of the 4 weeks of treatment 
resulted  in  responder rates of 36.6% for placebo, and 30.6%, 43.9%, and 38.5% for the dose groups 
A,B,  and C. 
Overall,  the proportion of participants  in  the ITT  population  who reported using  per-protocol rescue 
medicines  or any other laxative,  suppositories,  or enemas during  the 4-week treatment period  was 
numerically  lower in  each linaclotide  dose groups (A, B, and C) than in  the placebo group. 
Further  analyses are not included  in  this  AR, due to missing  relevance. 
Assessor’s comment: 
No evaluation  has done within  the EU of the efficacy of linaclotide  in  the adult  population  for the 
treatment of FC. However, from the data known in the literature  (e.g.  Lembo et al  NEJM 2011; 
reporting  results  of two studies),  where a clear difference  was shown in  relatively  “hard  endpoints” 
(response based on “at least 3 CSBMs per week with an increase  of at least 1 CSBM from baseline  for 9 
of the 12 weeks treatment”, which  showed rates of 21% and  16% for the 145 µg dose, and 19.4% and 
21.3% for the 290 µg dose; while  placebo response rates were 3.3% and 6.0%), the results reported 
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 14/21 
 
  
 
 
 
here for the paediatric  population  appear disappointing.  In  consequence, it would appear reasonable to 
analyse  the reasons for the failure  of this study to show relevant  effects. However, the applicant  has 
not included  any reasoning,  neither  in  the study report, nor in  the clinical  overview. Questions to be 
answered could  be, whether the trial  setting,  with potentially  insufficient  inclusion  criteria,  could  have 
favoured the inclusion  of a less severely diseased  population,  favouring  a lower response in  active 
treatment, and a higher  response in  placebo-treated patients.  Also, the effectiveness  of the 
instructions  for life-style  modifications  could play  a role here. Furthermore, the appropriateness  of the 
doses could be debated: A adult  person with a weight of 75 kg receives approx. 1.9 µg/kg b.w. when 
given  the adult  dose for the treatment of FC. The dose groups in  this study received  in dose group A of 
9 or 18 µg depending  on weight and age, which results  in  a b.w.-related  dose of 0.36 µg/kg (assuming 
a mean weight of 25 kg in  the younger age group with a weight below 35 kg, and a weight of 50 kg in 
the young age group with a weight of >35 kg, and adolescents). This  would mean a dose of 0.72 µg/kg 
in  group B, and 1.44 µg/kg  in group C, which is below the “usual”  adult  dose. Therefore, the cautious 
dosing could  also play  a role for these results,  although  the overall  results  in those receiving  the adult 
dose did  also not clearly  show efficacy.  However, the analysis  of the causes for the failure  of the study 
to show effects (including  the explorative  application  of another dose-response model) could  help  to 
modify the further  paediatric  studies to be conducted.  
The statistical  evaluation  of the dose-response was not discussed  in  the main body of final  study 
report, but displayed  in  tables in  the appendix  showing that a significant  dose-response could not be 
seen, when applying  a linear  trend test. Also, a test on an additional  quadratic  term investigating  a 
deviation  from the linear  model was not significant.  Other dose response models were not discussed  or 
applied.  Hence, using  the pre-specified  methods no significant  dose response could be shown. 
However, study LIN-MD-63 for FC in the paediatric  population  aged 6-17 is already  ongoing  at the time 
of submission  of study LIN-MD-62 using  similar  doses as LIN-MD-62. 
For the currently  EU license,  however, the results of the efficacy analysis  do not have any 
consequences. 
PK  analysis: 
Similar  to adult  data, due to limited  absorption, the plasma concentrations of linaclotide  and its active 
metabolite MM-419447 were below the limit  of quantitation  in  most of the pediatric  participants 
enrolled  in  this studyThus,  no PK parameters were calculated.  However, 4 participants  in  the 6 to 11 
years of age group had  quantifiable  plasma concentrations of linaclotide  and/or its active metabolite (1 
each in dose groups A and B, and 2 in  dose group C). The concentrations determined  were between 
0.107 ng/ml and  1.26 ng/ml,  with the exception of a value  of 300 ng/ml in  one patient  in  dose group 
A. This  is considered  “theoretically  impossible”  by the applicant  (even if the dose would have given 
intravenously,  the calculated  plasma concentration would be 4.79 ng/ml),  and a suspicion  on 
contamination of the plasma sample was brought  forward by the applicant. 
Assessor’s comment: 
These results are in  line  with the results  from adult  PK studies,  although  the number of samples with 
measurable  concentration appears somewhat higher  than in  adult  PK studies,  where usually  for none of 
the participants  any measurable  concentration was detected. The exceptionally  high  value  of 300 
ng/ml  remains somewhat obscure, because, although  the study report ascribes  this to potential 
contamination,  the analytical  report rather considers this  to be highly  unlikely.  Of note, is  the fact that 
the LLoQ has been set to 0.1 ng/ml,  and this  has previously  (in the adult  PK programme been at 0.2 
ng/ml.  There were – in  addition  – a couple of issues  reported in  the validation  report, which should 
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 15/21 
 
  
 
 
give  rise to caution  when looking at the PK results.  However, the overall  conclusion  that linaclotide  is 
minimally  or not at all  absorbed in  children  and adolescents aged 6-17 is clearly  supported. 
Safety results 
Exposure:  
There were 21 patients  receiving  the 9/18 µg dose in  the two weight  groups (10 between 18 and 35 
kg, and 11 above 35 kg), and 26 receiving  18/36 µg with 13 and 13 in  the two weight groups,  ans 
finally  20 patients receiving  36/72 µg with 12 and  8 in  the higher  and lower weight groups.  There were 
16 patients  receiving  the 145 µg dose. All  patients  6-11 years of age received the oral liquid 
formulation,  and 90% of the older age group received the capsule  formulation. 
The final  treatment durations are shown in the following  table: 
Table  8: 
Treatment duration  (safety population) 
Adverse events: 
The overall  number of treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs) in  the different  dose groups, as 
well  as the number  of treatment-related TEAEs,  SAEs,  and AEs ledaing  to discontinuation  are shown in 
the following  table: 
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 16/21 
 
  
 
 
 
Table  9: 
Overall  Summary of Adverse events: 
The most common adverse events according  to SOC and PT are shown in  the following  table 
Table  10: 
Summary of treatment-emergent adverse events (safety population)  in more than 5% 
of the participants: 
There were no AEs of special  interest  (ie, significant  volume depletion  and/or significant  electrolyte 
abnormalities  and/or ECG abnormalities  that were considered  by the investigator  orsponsor to be 
related  to diarrhea)  or deaths reported. 
The majority of treatment-emergent AEs reported were considered mild  or moderate in  severity.  One 
participant  in  the placebo group and one participant  in  the linaclotide  Dose A group experienced  severe 
TEAEs  during  the study. 
Severe TEAEs of tooth impacted, toothache, post-procedural swelling,  ALT increased,  and AST 
increased  were reported in the placebo participant.  Severe TEAE of suicidal  ideation  was reported in 
the linaclotide  Dose A group participant.  None of these events were considered  by the investigator  to 
be related to the study drug. 
The majority of the TEAEs of diarrhea  among participants  6 to 17 years of age, across all  doses, were 
mild,  and none were severe 
Serious events and deaths: 
There were not deaths in the study. 
Overall,  a total of 2 participants  (both in  the 12 to 17 years of age group) experienced  SAEs,  neither  of 
which were considered  related  to study drug  (suicidal  ideation  in  the linaclotide  Dose A group and 
vomiting  in  the linaclotide  145 µg  group). 
Laboratory values and vital  signs: 
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 17/21 
 
  
 
 
 
 
There were no unexpected changes of clinical  relevance  in  the study. The most frequent  potentially 
clinically  (PCS) significant  values  were observed for albumin  (> 1.1 × ULN) and BUN (> 1.2 × ULN), 
neither  of which  was associated with concomitant reports of diarrhea.  The overall  evaluation  of PCS 
cases in  laboratory values  are shown in the following  table: 
Table  11: 
Number of participants  with PCS postbseoline  values of laboratory investigations  during 
the double-blind  treatment period (safety population) 
The incidences  of all  vital  sign  parameters (supine  and standing  blood pressure, supine  and standing 
pulse  rate, temperature, respiratory  rate, and weight) that were identified  as PCS based on the criteria 
defined  in  the SAP are presented in  the following  table.  There were no unexpected changes of clinical 
relevance. 
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 18/21 
 
  
 
 
 
Table  12: 
Number of participants  with PCS post-baseline  vital  sign  parameters (safety 
population): 
Assessor’s comment: 
The overall  conclusions on safety are of course hampered by the fact that the numbers in  the different 
dose groups are small,  and the treatment duration  was limited.  However, as an overall  conclusions,  it 
appears that the adverse effects to be deduced from the study are clearly  related  to the 
pharmacodynamics activity  of the compound, with diarrhea  being  the only events occurring  in clearly 
higher  rates, and in  dose dependent  manner in  the active treatment groups. The further  analysis  could 
not reveal any clinically  relevant  consequences of the diarrhea  events (e.g.  related  to electrolyte,  blood 
pressure,  occurrence of syncope, etc.). 
It is  concluded that the known safety profile  of the compound in  adults  is confirmed  in  children  and 
adolescents aged 6-17 years. There appears to be no obvious increased  risk  of adverse effects in  the 
paediatric  population  down to the age of 6 as compared to an adult  population. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The applicant  has presented the first  study which  was part of the agreed  PIP,  in  this Article  46 
procedure. Whereas all  studies agreed  in the PIP  will  be conducted in the indication  functional 
constipation,  the product is currently  licensed  in  the indication  IBS  only.  The results  of any of these 
studies  will  therefore be of limited  relevance  for the product licensed  in  the EU. 
The study LIN-MD-62 was an explorative  PK- dose-finding,  and safety study in  patients  aged 6-17 in 
patients  with functional  constipation.  Whereas – as an overall  result  – the known properties of the 
substance with regard  to PK and safety can be considered to have been confirmed  with this study, the 
results  with regard to efficacy do not show clinically  relevant  differences  in  comparison to the placebo 
treatment in  any of the dose levels  studied. 
However, due to the different  patient  population,  the different  indication,  and the potential  use of 
relatively  low doses in the trial,  the results  with regard to efficacy are not considered  to have any 
repercussion  on the existing  license  for adults  with IBS-C. 
3.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
The applicant  has submitted  the results  of study LIN-MD-62 being  the first  of a series of studies  to be 
conducted in  the paediatric  population.  However, this  study was conducted in patients  suffering  from 
functional  constipation,  an indication  for which the compound is currently  not licensed  in the EU. While 
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 19/21 
 
  
 
 
 
 
the results with regard  to efficacy  are therefore not relevant,  the results with  regard to safety do 
confirm the known safety profile  of linaclotide,  with the majority of effects restricted  to the 
gastrointestinal  effect and the “laxative”  effects induced. 
Therefore, the proposal of the applicant,  that no changes to the PI  should be implemented,  and that 
the trial  has no impact on the overall  conclusion  on benefit  risk,  is supported. 
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
4.  Additional clarification requested 
None 
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 20/21 
 
  
 
 
 
Annex. Line listing of all the studies included in the 
development program 
The studies  should be listed  by chronological  date of completion: 
Non clinical  studies 
N/A 
Clinical  studies 
Product Name: Constella 
Active substance: 
Linaclotide 
Study title 
Study number  Date of completion 
LIN-MD-62 
29 May 2018 
Date of submission  of final  study report 
26 February  2019 
EMA/260767/2019  
Page 21/21 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
