EMEA/H/C/002490 
EPAR summary for the public 
Constella 
linaclotide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Constella. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Constella. 
What is Constella? 
Constella is a medicine that contains the active substance linaclotide. It is available as capsules 
(290 micrograms). 
What is Constella used for? 
Constella is used to treat the symptoms of moderate to severe irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) with 
constipation in adults. IBS is a long-term disorder of the gut characterised by pain or discomfort in the 
abdomen and bloating together with altered bowel habit. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Constella used? 
The recommended dose of Constella is one capsule once a day, taken at least 30 minutes before a 
meal. 
The doctor should periodically assess the need of continued treatment. If the patient has not 
experienced an improvement in symptoms after four weeks of treatment, the benefits and risks of 
continuing treatment should be reconsidered. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Constella work? 
The active substance in Constella, linaclotide, attaches to some receptors in the gut called guanylate 
cyclase C. By attaching to these receptors, it reduces pain and increases the secretion of fluid into the 
gut, thereby loosening the stools and increasing bowel movements. 
How has Constella been studied? 
The effects of Constella were first tested in experimental models before being studied in humans. 
Constella was investigated in two main studies involving a total of 1,608 patients with IBS with 
constipation, where it was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment). The main measures of 
effectiveness were the number of patients who experienced at least a 30% improvement in their pain 
and discomfort and the number of patients who were considerably or completely relieved from all IBS 
symptoms for at least 6 out of the 12 weeks of treatment. One of the studies also looked at the effects 
of Constella following 26 weeks of treatment. 
What benefit has Constella shown during the studies? 
Constella was shown to be more effective than placebo at improving the symptoms of IBS. In the first 
study, 55% of patients who received Constella experienced a 30% or higher improvement in their pain 
and discomfort for at least 6 out of the 12 weeks of treatment, compared with 42% of patients who 
received placebo. In addition, 37% of patients who received Constella were considerably or completely 
relieved from symptoms for at least 6 out of the 12 weeks of treatment, compared with 19% of 
patients who received placebo. 
Similar results were obtained in the second study, with 54% of Constella patients experiencing an 
improvement in their pain and discomfort and 39% of them feeling considerably or completely relieved 
from symptoms for at least 6 out of the 12 weeks of treatment, compared with 39% and 17% of 
patients in the placebo group, respectively. 
The results after 26 weeks of treatment showed an improvement in pain (for at least 13 weeks out of 
the 26 weeks) in 54% of patients taking Constella compared with 36% of patients taking placebo, as 
well as relief from symptoms for at least 13 weeks in 37% of Constella patients, compared with 17% of 
patients in the placebo group. 
What is the risk associated with Constella? 
The most common side effect with Constella is diarrhoea, mainly mild to moderate, occurring in 
between 10 and 20 patients in 100. In rare and more severe cases, diarrhoea may lead to dehydration, 
hypokalaemia (low blood potassium levels), decrease in blood bicarbonate, dizziness and orthostatic 
hypotension (low blood pressure on standing up). 
Constella must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to linaclotide or any of the other 
ingredients. It must also not be used in patients with a known or suspected blockage in their stomach 
or gut. 
Why has Constella been approved? 
The CHMP noted that Constella has been shown to have clinically relevant, beneficial effects in patients 
with IBS with constipation in the long term (for up to six months). It has also been shown to have a 
beneficial impact on the quality of life of patients. However, the Committee also noted that about half 
of the patients did not adequately benefit from treatment, and therefore recommended that the need 
Constella  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
 
for continued treatment should be reconsidered after four weeks. Regarding safety, the CHMP 
concluded that the side effects with Constella, mainly diarrhoea, are manageable. The CHMP therefore 
decided that Constella’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Constella 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Constella on 26 November 2012. 
The full EPAR for Constella can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Constella, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in November 2012. 
Constella  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
 
