EMA/185977/2013  
EMEA/H/C/001097 
EPAR summary for the public 
Controloc Control 
pantoprazole 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Controloc Control. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Controloc Control. 
What is Controloc Control? 
Controloc Control is a medicine that contains the active substance pantoprazole. It is available as 
gastroresistant tablets (20 mg). ‘Gastroresistant’ means that the tablet’s contents pass through the 
stomach without being broken down until they reach the intestine. This prevents the active substance 
from being destroyed by the acid in the stomach. 
Controloc Control is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) 
called Controloc. 
What is Controloc Control used for? 
Controloc Control is used for the short-term treatment of the symptoms of acid reflux in adults. Acid 
reflux is when acid produced in the stomach escapes into the gullet, causing heartburn and acid 
regurgitation (acid flowing up into the mouth). 
The medicine can be obtained without a prescription. 
How is Controloc Control used? 
The recommended dose of Controloc Control is one tablet once a day until symptoms have stopped. 
The patient may need to take the medicine for two to three days in a row for symptoms to improve. If 
there is no improvement in symptoms within two weeks of continuous treatment, patients should 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
consult their doctor. Patients should not take the medicine for longer than four weeks without 
consulting their doctor. 
The tablets should be swallowed whole with liquid before a meal and should not be chewed or crushed.  
How does Controloc Control work? 
The active substance in Controloc Control, pantoprazole, is a proton pump inhibitor. It works by 
blocking ‘proton pumps’, proteins found in specialised cells in the stomach lining that pump acid into 
the stomach. By blocking the pumps, pantoprazole reduces acid production, relieving the symptoms of 
acid reflux. 
Pantoprazole-containing medicines have been available in the European Union (EU) since 1994. The 
reference medicine, Controloc, is only available with a prescription. It is used for long-term treatments 
and is also used to treat a wider range of gastrointestinal diseases (conditions affecting the gut) than 
Controloc Control. 
How has Controloc Control been studied? 
Because pantoprazole has been in use for many years, the applicant presented data from the scientific 
literature. The applicant also presented information from two main studies looking at the effects of 
pantoprazole 20 mg in a total of 563 adults who had symptoms of acid reflux, including at least one 
episode of heartburn in the three days before the studies began. The first study compared 
pantoprazole with placebo (a dummy treatment) in 219 adults, and the second compared it with 
ranitidine (another medicine used to treat acid reflux symptoms) in 344 adults. The main measure of 
effectiveness was the number of patients with symptoms of heartburn over the first two weeks of 
treatment. 
What benefit has Controloc Control shown during the studies? 
Pantoprazole was more effective than placebo and ranitidine at improving the symptoms of acid reflux. 
In the first study, 74% of the patients taking pantoprazole (80 out of 108) and 43% of those taking 
placebo (48 out of 111) had no heartburn after two weeks. Pantoprazole was also more effective than 
placebo at reducing symptoms of acid regurgitation. In the second study, 70% of the patients taking 
pantoprazole (121 out of 172) and 59% of those talking ranitidine (102 out of 172) had no heartburn 
after two weeks of treatment. 
What is the risk associated with Controloc Control? 
The most common side effects with Controloc Control (seen in around 1 patient in 100) are diarrhoea 
and headache. For the full list of all side effects reported with pantoprazole, see the package leaflet. 
Controloc Control must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to pantoprazole, soya 
or any of the other ingredients. It must not be used with atazanavir (a medicine used to treat human 
immunodeficiency virus [HIV] infection). 
Why has Controloc Control been approved? 
The CHMP noted that pantoprazole 20 mg was effective in the short-term treatment of reflux 
symptoms and that there is a long safety experience with the medicine as a prescription medicine. It 
was also of the opinion that, based on the experience of the use of pantoprazole, the availability of 
Controloc Control without medical supervision is appropriate. The CHMP therefore decided that 
Controloc Control  
EMA/185977/2013 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Controloc Control’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given marketing 
authorisation. 
Other information about Controloc Control 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Controloc 
Control on 12 June 2009. 
The full EPAR for Controloc Control can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Controloc Control, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 03-2013. 
Controloc Control  
EMA/185977/2013 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
