EMA/527379/2013  
EMEA/H/C/001159 
EPAR summary for the public 
Copalia HCT 
amlodipine / valsartan / hydrochlorothiazide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Copalia HCT. It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Copalia HCT. 
What is Copalia HCT? 
Copalia HCT is a medicine that contains three active substances, amlodipine, valsartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide. It is available as tablets containing amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide 
in the following amounts: 5/160/12.5 mg, 10/160/12.5 mg, 5/160/25 mg; 10/160/25 mg and 
10/320/25 mg. 
What is Copalia HCT used for? 
Copalia HCT is used to treat essential hypertension (high blood pressure) in adults whose blood 
pressure is already adequately controlled with a combination of amlodipine, valsartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide. ‘Essential’ means that the hypertension has no obvious cause. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Copalia HCT used? 
Copalia HCT is taken by mouth as one tablet once a day, at the same time of the day and preferably in 
the morning. The dose of Copalia HCT to be used is the same as the doses of three individual active 
substances that the patient was taking before. The daily dose of Copalia HCT should not exceed 10 mg 
of amlodipine, 320 mg of valsartan and 25 mg of hydrochlorothiazide. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Copalia HCT work? 
The three active substances in Copalia HCT are anti-hypertensive medicines that are already in use in 
the European Union (EU). 
Amlodipine is a ‘calcium channel blocker’. It blocks special channels on the surface of cells called 
calcium channels, through which calcium ions normally enter the cells. When calcium ions enter the 
cells in the muscles of blood vessel walls, this causes contraction. By reducing the flow of calcium into 
the cells, amlodipine prevents the cells from contracting and helps the blood vessel walls to relax and 
widen, thereby reducing blood pressure. 
Valsartan is an ‘angiotensin II receptor antagonist’, which means that it blocks the action of a body 
hormone called angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a powerful vasoconstrictor (a substance that narrows 
blood vessels). By blocking the receptors to which angiotensin II normally attaches, valsartan stops 
the hormone having an effect, allowing the blood vessels to widen and blood pressure to reduce. 
Hydrochlorothiazide is a diuretic. It works by increasing urine output, reducing the volume of fluid in 
the blood and lowering the blood pressure. 
The combination of the three active substances has an additive effect, reducing the blood pressure 
more than the individual medicines alone. By lowering the blood pressure, the risks associated with 
high blood pressure, such as having a stroke, are reduced. 
How has Copalia HCT been studied? 
Because the combination of the three active substances has been in use for a number of years, the 
company presented studies showing that the tablet containing all three substances is absorbed in the 
body in the same way as the separate tablets. 
In addition, one main study was carried out in 2,271 patients with moderate to severe hypertension 
with the highest strength of Copalia HCT (320 mg valsartan, 10 mg amlodipine and 25 mg 
hydrochlorothiazide). Patients received either Copalia HCT or one of the three combinations containing 
only two of the active substances for eight weeks. The main measure of effectiveness was the average 
change in the blood pressure. 
What benefit has Copalia HCT shown during the studies? 
Treatment with the highest strength of Copalia HCT was more effective at treating hypertension than 
dual combinations containing any of the two active substances. The average reduction in blood 
pressure was around 39.7/24.7 mmHg in patients taking Copalia HCT compared with 32/19.7 mmHg, 
33.5/21.5 mmHg and 31.5/19.5 mmHg in patients taking valsartan/hydrochlorothiazide, 
valsartan/amlodipine and hydrochlorothiazide/amlodipine combinations, respectively. 
What is the risk associated with Copalia HCT? 
The most common side effects with Copalia HCT (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are 
hypokalaemia (low blood potassium levels), dizziness, headache, hypotension (low blood pressure), 
dyspepsia (heartburn), pollakiuria (abnormally frequent urination), fatigue (tiredness) and oedema 
(fluid retention). For the full list of all side effects reported with Copalia HCT, see the package leaflet. 
Copalia HCT must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to the active substances, to 
other sulfonamides, to dihydropyridine derivatives or to any of the other ingredients in Copalia HCT. It 
must not be used in women who are more than three months pregnant. It must also not be used in 
patients who have liver or bile problems (such as jaundice), severe kidney problems, anuria (a 
Copalia HCT  
EMA/527379/2013 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
condition in which a patient cannot make or pass urine) or in patients undergoing dialysis (a blood 
clearance technique). Finally, Copalia HCT must not be used in patients with hypokalaemia (low blood 
potassium levels), hyponatraemia (low blood sodium levels) and hypercalcaemia (high blood calcium 
levels) that do not respond to treatment and in patients with hyperuricaemia (high blood levels of uric 
acid) that causes symptoms. 
Copalia HCT must also not be used in combination with aliskiren-containing medicines (also used to 
treat essential hypertension) in patients with type 2 diabetes or in patients with moderate or severe 
kidney impairment. 
Why has Copalia HCT been approved? 
The CHMP noted that patients already taking the three active substances would be more likely to 
comply with their treatment if prescribed Copalia HCT which combines the three substances in a single 
tablet. The main study showed the benefit of the highest strength of Copalia HCT in lowering the blood 
pressure. For all doses, Copalia HCT also met requirements to prove that it was comparable to the 
combinations of the individual active substances taken separately. The CHMP therefore decided that 
Copalia HCT’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given marketing 
authorisation. 
Other information about Copalia HCT 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Copalia HCT on 4 November 2009.  
The full EPAR for Copalia HCT can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Copalia HCT, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 09-2013. 
Copalia HCT  
EMA/527379/2013 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
