EMA/242496/2021  
EMEA/H/C/005381 
Copiktra (duvelisib) 
An overview of Copiktra and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Copiktra and what is it used for? 
Copiktra is a cancer medicine used to treat chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL, a cancer of a type of 
white blood cells called B lymphocytes) and follicular lymphoma (another cancer that affects B 
lymphocytes). 
In CLL, Copiktra is used in patients whose disease has either come back or not improved after at least 
two other treatments. In follicular lymphoma, it is used in patients whose disease has not improved 
after at least two other treatments.  
Copiktra contains the active substance duvelisib. 
How is Copiktra used? 
Copiktra can only be obtained with a prescription and it should be prescribed by a doctor experienced 
in the use of cancer medicines. 
Copiktra is available as capsules to be taken by mouth; the recommended dose is 25 mg twice a day. 
Treatment should be continued for as long as the patient improves or remains stable and the side 
effects are tolerable. The doctor may reduce the dose or stop treatment temporarily or permanently if 
certain side effects occur. The dose may also need to be reduced in patients taking other medicines 
that increase the amount of duvelisib in the body. 
Any infection should be treated before starting treatment with Copiktra and patients should also be 
monitored for infection during Copiktra treatment.  
For more information about using Copiktra, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Copiktra work? 
The active substance in Copiktra, duvelisib, blocks the effects of certain enzymes (called PI3K-delta 
and PI3K-gamma) that are overactive in blood cancers. These enzymes enable the growth and survival 
of the cancer cells. By blocking the effects of the enzymes, duvelisib causes the cancer cells to die, 
thereby delaying or stopping the progression of the cancer. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Copiktra have been shown in studies? 
A main leukaemia study showed that Copiktra was more effective than another cancer medicine, 
ofatumumab, in patients with CLL that had not improved or had come back after at least 2 other 
treatments. Among the 196 such patients in the study, those treated with Copiktra lived on average 16 
months before the cancer got worse compared with 9 months in those treated with ofatumumab. 
In a second main study of lymphoma, Copiktra was effective in producing a response in patients with 
follicular lymphoma whose cancer had not improved after 2 previous treatments: 40% of these 
patients (29 of 73) responded to treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Copiktra? 
The most common side effects with Copiktra (which may affect more than 2 in 10 people) are 
diarrhoea or colitis (inflammation in the large bowel), neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of 
white blood cell), rash, tiredness, fever, cough, nausea (feeling sick), upper respiratory tract infection 
(nose and throat infection), pneumonia (infection of the lungs), musculoskeletal pain (pain in the 
muscle and bones) and anaemia (low red blood cell count). 
The most common serious side effects were pneumonia, colitis and diarrhoea. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Copiktra, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Copiktra authorised in the EU? 
Copiktra was shown to be effective in delaying worsening of the disease in patients with CLL that had 
not improved or had come back after at least 2 previous treatments. In addition, the medicine was 
effective in patients with follicular lymphoma that had not improved after at least 2 previous 
treatments. The safety of Copiktra was considered acceptable. The European Medicines Agency 
therefore decided that Copiktra’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in 
the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Copiktra? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Copiktra have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Copiktra are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Copiktra are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Copiktra 
Copiktra received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 May 2021. 
Further information on Copiktra can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/copiktra. 
This overview was last updated in 05-2021. 
Copiktra (duvelisib)  
EMA/242496/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
