EMA/696962/2014  
EMEA/H/C/002785 
EPAR summary for the public 
Corbilta 
Levodopa / carbidopa / entacapone 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Corbilta. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Corbilta. 
For practical information about using Corbilta, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Corbilta and what is it used for? 
Corbilta is a medicine that contains three active substances: levodopa, carbidopa and entacapone. It is 
used to treat adults with Parkinson’s disease (a progressive brain disorder that causes shaking, slow 
movement and muscle stiffness). 
Corbilta is used in patients who are being treated with a combination of levodopa and an inhibitor of 
dopa decarboxylase (two standard treatments for Parkinson’s disease) but are having ‘fluctuations’ 
towards the end of the period between two doses of their medication. Fluctuations happen when the 
effects of the medication wear off and symptoms re-emerge. They are linked to a reduction in the 
effect of levodopa, when the patient experiences sudden switches between being ‘on’ and able to 
move, and being ‘off’ and having difficulty moving about. Corbilta is used when these fluctuations 
cannot be treated with the standard combination alone. 
This medicine is the same as Stalevo, which is already authorised in the European Union (EU). The 
company that makes Stalevo has agreed that its scientific data can be used for Corbilta (‘informed 
consent’). 
How is Corbilta used? 
Corbilta is available as a range of tablets in seven strengths, containing 50 to 200 mg levodopa and 
12.5 to 50 mg carbidopa. All of the tablets contain 200 mg entacapone. The strength of Corbilta that 
the patient should use is based on the amount of levodopa they need to control their symptoms. See 
the summary of product characteristics (also part of the EPAR) for full instructions on how patients 
should be switched to Corbilta and on how the dose is adjusted during treatment. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The maximum daily dose of Corbilta is 10 tablets, except for the tablets containing 175 mg levodopa 
and 43.75 mg carbidopa, for which the maximum daily dose is eight tablets, and those containing 200 
mg levodopa and 50 mg carbidopa, for which the maximum daily dose is seven tablets.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How does Corbilta work? 
In patients with Parkinson’s disease, the cells in the brain that produce the neurotransmitter dopamine 
begin to die and the amount of dopamine in the brain decreases. Patients then lose their ability to 
control their movements reliably. All of the active substances in Corbilta work to restore the levels of 
dopamine in the parts of the brain that control movement and co-ordination. 
Levodopa is converted into dopamine in the brain. Both carbidopa and entacapone block some of the 
enzymes that are involved in the breakdown of levodopa in the body: carbidopa blocks the enzyme 
dopa decarboxylase, and entacapone blocks the enzyme catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT). As a 
result, levodopa remains active for longer. This helps to improve the symptoms of Parkinson’s disease, 
such as stiffness and slowness of movement. 
Entacapone has been authorised in the European Union (EU) as Comtess/Comtan since 1998. The use 
of combinations of levodopa and carbidopa is well established, having being in use since the mid-
1970s. Having all three substances in the same tablet can lower the number of tablets patients have to 
take and help them stick to their treatment. 
What benefits of Corbilta have been shown in studies? 
The company used some of the data from Comtess/Comtan (entacapone) to support the use of 
Corbilta and presented data from the published literature for the use of the combination of levodopa 
and carbidopa. 
The company carried out ‘bioequivalence’ studies to show that taking Corbilta produces the same levels 
of levodopa, carbidopa and entacapone in the blood as taking separate tablets containing entacapone 
and the combination of levodopa and carbidopa. 
What are the risks associated with Corbilta? 
The most common side effects with Corbilta (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are dyskinesia 
(uncontrollable movements), aggravated Parkinsonism (worsening of Parkinson’s disease), nausea 
(feeling sick) and harmless urine discoloration. Serious side effects which have been reported much 
less often include gastrointestinal haemorrhage (bleeding in the gut) and angioedema (swelling under 
the skin of face or limbs). For the full list of all side effects reported with Corbilta, see the package 
leaflet. 
Corbilta must not be used in patients with: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
severely reduced liver function; 
narrow-angle glaucoma (increased pressure within the eye); 
phaeochromocytoma (a tumour of the adrenal gland); 
a history of neuroleptic malignant syndrome (a dangerous nervous system disorder usually 
caused by antipsychotic medicines) or rhabdomyolysis (breakdown of muscle fibres). 
Corbilta  
EMA/696962/2014 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Corbilta must not be used together with other medicines that belong to the group ‘monoamine oxidase 
inhibitors’ (a type of antidepressant). See the summary of product characteristics (also part of the 
EPAR) for full details. 
For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Corbilta approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Corbilta’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Corbilta? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Corbilta is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Corbilta, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Corbilta 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Corbilta on 11 November 2013. 
The full EPAR for Corbilta can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Corbilta, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 10-2014 
Corbilta  
EMA/696962/2014 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
