16 March 2012 
EMA/1974292/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Assessment report  
Corlentor 
ivabradine   
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/000598/II/0018 
Note 
Variation  assessment  report  as  adopted  by  the  CHMP  with  all  information  of  a  commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
1.1. Requested Type II.............................................................................................. 3 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment............................................................................ 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 4 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 4 
2.2. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 5 
2.2.1. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment.......................................................... 5 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 6 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 6 
2.3.2. Clinical efficacy ............................................................................................... 7 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy .......................................................................... 30 
2.3.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy ................................................................... 32 
2.4. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 32 
2.4.1. Discussion on clinical safety ............................................................................ 39 
2.4.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety ..................................................................... 41 
2.5. Risk management plan...................................................................................... 41 
2.6. Changes to the Product Information.................................................................... 43 
3. Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance ................... 48 
Benefits ................................................................................................................ 48 
Risks .................................................................................................................... 51 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 52 
2
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Requested Type II 
Pursuant  to  Article  16  of  Commission  Regulation  (EC)  No 1234/2008,  Les  Laboratoires  Servier 
submitted  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  on  11  November  2010  an  application  for  a  Type  II 
variation. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary name: 
Presentations: 
Corlentor 
ivabradine 
See Annex A 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation(s) requested 
Type 
C.I.6.a 
Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of a new 
II 
therapeutic indication or modification of an approved one 
Extension  of  indication  to  add  the  treatment  in  chronic  heart  failure  NYHA  II  to  IV  class  with  systolic 
dysfunction,  in  patients  in  sinus  rhythm  and  whose  heart  rate  is  ≥   75  bpm,  in  combination  with 
standard  therapy,  including  beta-blocker  therapy,  or  when  beta-blockers  are  contraindicated  or  not 
tolerated.  The  MAH  proposed  the  update  of  sections  4.1,  4.2,  4.3,  4.4,  4.5,  4.7,  4.8  and  5.1  of  the 
SmPC  in  order  to  extend  the  indication  and  to  introduce  new  information  following  the  results  of  the 
SHIFT study. The Package Leaflet was proposed to be updated in accordance. 
In addition it was proposed to delete version of the RMP from Annex IIB. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the SmPC, Annex II and Package Leaflet. 
Rapporteur:  
Pieter de Graeff (NL) 
Co-Rapporteur: Jaane Komi (FI) 
3
 
 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
11 November 2010 
16 January 2011 
Rapporteurs’ preliminary assessment report 
circulated on: 
11 March 2011 
Request for supplementary information and 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
14 April 2011 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
14 October 2011 
Rapporteurs’ preliminary assessment report on 
the MAH’s responses circulated on: 
25 November 2011 
Rapporteurs’ updated assessment report 
circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
8 December 2011 
15 December 2011 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/157/2010 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP P/157/2010 was not yet completed as some 
measures were deferred. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Corlentor  was  authorised  through  the  Centralised  Procedure  in  the  EU  in  2005  for  the  indication: 
“Symptomatic  treatment  of  chronic  stable  angina  pectoris  in  patients  with  normal  sinus  rhythm,  who 
have a contra-indication or intolerance for beta-blockers”. 
The active ingredient, ivabradine, is a selective inhibitor of the cardiac pacemaker current If, that plays 
a  key  role  during  the  early  phase  of  spontaneous  diastolic  depolarisation  in  sinoatrial  node  cells. 
Inhibition  of  If  reduces  the  slope  of  spontaneous  diastolic  depolarisation,  thereby  increasing  the  time 
required to reach the voltage threshold for action potential initiation and slowing the spontaneous firing 
and  therefore  heart  rate.  Ivabradine  is  the  first  agent  of  this  type  for  which  marketing  approval  was 
sought.  Anti-anginal  therapy  is  intended  in  patients  with  stable  angina  for:  1)  symptom  relief,  where 
generally  sublingual  short-acting  nitrates  are  used  and  2)  prophylaxis,  for  which  beta-blockers  are 
first-line  agents.  Calcium  antagonists  are  mostly  a  second-line  alternative  when  beta-blockers  are 
contraindicated or ineffective (or in combination when beta-blockers alone are insufficient). Ivabradine 
belongs to a therapeutic class of anti-ischaemic agents with a different mode of action, being a specific 
4
 
 
 
 
 
negative  chronotropic  action.  This  concept  involves  decreasing  the  heart  rate  and  increasing  the 
duration of diastole, to improve the balance between myocardial oxygen supply and demand as well as 
coronary perfusion. 
Following the completion of the SHIFT study the MAH submitted this extension of indication application 
to include the following new indication: Treatment of chronic heart failure: Reduction of cardiovascular 
events (cardiovascular mortality or hospitalisation for worsening heart failure) in adults in sinus rhythm 
with symptomatic chronic heart failure and with heart rate ≥ 70 bpm.  
2.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.2.1.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
At  the  end  of  the  initial  registration  procedure  for  ivabradine,  further  investigation  of  the  risk  to  the 
aquatic  environment  (Phase  II  Tier  B)  was  requested  by  the  CHMP  when  considering  the  PEC/PNEC 
ratio based on algae, in accordance with the then most recent CPMP draft guideline on Environmental 
Risk  Assessment  of  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  (EMEA/CPMP/SWP/4447/00/draft,  20  January 
2005). Only a long-term toxicity study in fish (either OPPTS 850.1500 or OECD two generation test, or 
OECD210  ELS  test)  and  a  water/sediment  study  (OECD308)  were  requested  by  the  CHMP. 
Consequently, the MAH committed itself to perform a fish ELS toxicity test (OECD210) and the aerobic 
water/sediment  test  (OECD308)  and  this  is  handled  within  post-marketing  follow-up  measure  FUM  6. 
Based  on  the  review  of  the  outstanding  issue  for  FUM  6,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  aquatic  risk 
assessment  was  not  changed  by  the  ELS  fish  outcome  and  the  risk  was  considered  acceptable,  when 
referring to the final Guideline on Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human Use 
(EMEA/CPMP/SWP/4447/00,  01  June  2006).  To  complete  the  environment  risk  assessment  of 
ivabradine,  a  sediment  toxicity  study  was  requested  by  CHMP.  The  study  protocol  was  further 
approved  by  the  CHMP  and  the  final  study  report  of  the  sediment  toxicity  study  has  been  used  to 
update the ERA for ivabradine that was submitted within current application. 
Table X: Summary of main study results 
OECD122 
Substance (INN/Invented Name): Ivabradine 
CAS-number (if available): 155974-00-8 
PBT screening 
Bioaccumulation potential- log 
K ow 
Phase I  
Calculation 
PEC  surfacewater  
Other concerns (e.g. chemical 
class) 
Phase II Physical-chemical properties and fate 
Study type 
Adsorption-Desorption 
Test protocol 
OECD 121 
Value 
0.53 
Ready Biodegradability Test 
Aerobic and Anaerobic 
Transformation in Aquatic 
Sediment systems 
OECD 301B 
OECD 308 
Result 
log K ow = 2.1 (at pH 7.4) 
Conclusion 
Not 
PBT/vPvB 
Unit 
g/L 
Results 
log Koc = 1.34 (at pH 
1.51); 4.00 (at pH 10.58) 
Not readily biodegradable 
DT50, water = ND 
DT50, sediment = ND 
DT50, whole system = ND 
% shifting to sediment = 
> 10% in sediment at day 
14 
Conclusion 
> 0.01 threshold  
N 
Remarks 
List all values 
DT50 not calculated 
since the 
mineralisation rate at 
the end of the study 
was below 20% of 
applied TRR for all 
water-sediment 
systems 
Phase IIa Effect studies  
Study type 
Test protocol 
Results 
Remarks 
5
 
 
 
 
 
Algae, Growth Inhibition 
Test/Species  
OECD 201 
NOEC 
0.882  mg/
OECD 211 
Daphnia sp. Reproduction 
Test  
Fish, Early Life Stage Toxicity 
Test/Species  
Activated Sludge, Respiration 
Inhibition Test  
Phase IIb Studies 
Sediment dwelling organism   OECD 218 
OECD 210 
OECD 209 
NOEC 
NOEC 
10 
EC 50 
> 
1000 
NOEC 
464 
L 
mg/
L 
mg/
L 
mg/
L 
mg/
kg 
Scenedesmus 
subspicatus (NOEC 
based on specific 
growth rate) 
Study to be submitted 
Oncorhynchus mykiss 
(rainbow trout) 
Chironomus riparius 
In the context of the obligation of the MAH to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP recommends the following points for further investigation: 
a  chronic  Daphnia  reproduction  test  (OECD211),  in  order  to  evaluate  the  risk  for  the  groundwater 
compartment, in accordance with the current guideline on Environmental Risk Assessment.  
There were no other new nonclinical studies submitted and assessed within this application. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects  
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The  MAH  has  conducted  a  three  year  randomized  double-blind  placebo-controlled  international 
multicenter  trial  to  evaluate  the  effects  of  ivabradine  on  cardiovascular  events  in  patients  with 
moderate  to  severe  chronic  heart  failure  and  left  ventricular  systolic  dysfunction  (Study  CL3-16257-
063; SHIFT STUDY). The MAH provided a justification that heart rate (HR) and change in heart rate are 
predictors  of  the  risk  for  death  or  hospitalisation  for  heart  failure  (HF).  Beta-blockers  (BB)  have 
reduced  morbidity  and  mortality  beyond  what  is  achieved  with  renin-angiotensin-aldosterone 
antagonists  (RAAS)  alone.  Their  benefits  seem  to  be  linked,  at  least  in  part,  to  their  heart-rate-
lowering properties. Heart-rate reduction could be particularly important in chronic heart failure (CHF), 
by  attenuating  the  effect  of  energy  starvation  of  the  myocardium.  In  patients  with  coronary  artery 
disease  (CAD)  and  left-ventricular  dysfunction  (LVD),  a  heart  rate  of  70  beats  per  minute  (bpm)  or 
higher  was  associated  with  a  34%  increased  risk  of  cardiovascular  death  and  a  53%  increase  in 
admission  to  hospital  for  heart  failure  compared  with  heart  rate  lower  than  70  bpm.  The  MAH 
considered that HF patients treated with BB who are still at an elevated HR level would be eligible for 
inclusion in the SHIFT trial.  
The CHMP agreed that the rationale presented by the MAH has its merits. Lowering HR is an important 
target  for  HF  therapies.  A  meta-analysis  by  McAlister  et  al.  [2009  Ann  Int  Med]  indicates  that 
increasing HR reduction by BB is associated with increased survival. However, whether this also applies 
to  a  non-betablocking  drug  with  a  different  mechanism  of  action  –  pure  HR  lowering  –  needs  to  be 
established. In the BEAUTIFUL trial which evaluated morbidity-mortality of ivabradine in CAD and LVEF 
dysfunction  patients,  no  effect  on  CV  outcome  was  observed,  but  a  significant  effect  was  seen  in  a 
subgroup of patients with a HR ≥ 70 bpm (Fox et al, Lancet, 2008). This study was assessed for safety 
purposes and was included in section 5.1 of the SmPC. With current application the MAH submitted a 
single  pivotal  study  to  support  the  hypothesis  based  on  the  BEAUTIFUL  trial  in  the  targeted  HF 
population. Given that only one pivotal study was submitted to support the new indication, data should 
be  compelling  and  the  trial  impeccably  performed  and  in  line  with  the  EMA  Points  to  Consider  on 
application with 1. meta-analysis; 2. one pivotal study (CPMP/EWP/2330/99). With this application the 
6
 
 
 
 
MAH provided also supportive data which provide insight in benefits and harms of the drug in an earlier 
stage (CAD) of the CV disease continuum.  
GCP 
The  Clinical  trials  were  performed  in  accordance  with  GCP  as  claimed  by  the  MAH.  The  MAH  has 
provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were carried out 
in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
An  inspection  was  conducted  following  a  request  of  the  CHMP  in  connection  with  the  current  type  II 
variation. This was triggered because the clinical evidence was based on a single pivotal trial and the 
complexity  of  the  trial  with  composite  endpoints  adjudicated  by  an  independent  Endpoint  Validation 
Committee. In such context, the inspection was to focus on the systems implemented by the sponsor 
and the overview by the sponsor during the conduct of the trial. The inspection team qualifies the level 
of  GCP  compliance  for  the  SHIFT  study  to  be  sufficient  and  therefore,  they  regard  the  data  to  be 
acceptable for evaluation in the context of a marketing authorisation application. However, the aspect 
of safety data (PSEs, SAEs, (re)-coding) and finally the information on Corlentor now available in the 
PhV database, especially the part of / based on the SHIFT study, is highlighted by the inspection team 
as a point of special attention. 
2.3.2.  Clinical efficacy  
Main study   
Study  CL-3-16257-063;  SHIFT  (Systolic  heart  failure  treatment  with  I f  inhibitor  ivabradine 
Trial).  
Methods  
This  was  a  three  year  randomized  double-blind  placebo-controlled  international  multicenter  trial  to 
evaluate the effects of ivabradine on cardiovascular events in patients with moderate to severe chronic 
heart failure and left ventricular systolic dysfunction. 
Study Participants  
The most important inclusion criteria at selection visit (2 weeks before randomisation) are listed below: 
- Male or female adult patients;  
-  At  least  4  weeks  prior  to  selection,  symptomatic  chronic  heart  failure  (CHF)  i.e.  New  York  Heart 
Association (NYHA) class II, III or IV; stable clinical condition with regards to CHF symptoms; optimal 
and unchanged CHF medications or dosages; 
- Documented hospital admission for worsening heart failure within 12 months before selection; 
- All aetiologies of CHF could be included, except for congenital heart disease and for severe aortic or 
mitral stenosis, or severe aortic regurgitation, or severe primary mitral regurgitation; 
- Electrocardiographic documentation of sinus rhythm at selection, with a resting heart rate (HR) ≥ 70 
bpm on standard 12-lead ECG; 
-  LV  systolic  dysfunction  documented  by  echocardiography,  radionuclide  ventriculography,  magnetic 
resonance imaging, cardiac angiography or computed tomography angiography; 
7
  
 
The most important inclusion criteria at randomisation are listed below: 
- Documented sinus rhythm and HR ≥ 70 bpm on a recent (within 24 hours) resting standard 12-lead 
ECG; 
-  LVEF  ≤  35%  as  measured  and  documented  within  the  previous  3  months  (in  a  stable  clinical 
condition)  by  either  echocardiography,  radionuclide  ventriculography,  magnetic  resonance  imaging, 
cardiac angiography or computed tomography angiography; 
The most important exclusion criteria are listed below: 
- Recent (less than 2 months prior to selection) MI or coronary revascularisation; 
-  Scheduled  coronary  revascularisation  (percutaneous  coronary  intervention  (PCI)  or  coronary  artery 
bypass graft (CABG)); 
- History of stroke or cerebral transient ischaemic attack within the previous 4 weeks; 
-  Severe  aortic  or  mitral  stenosis,  or  severe  aortic  regurgitation,  or  severe  primary  mitral 
regurgitation; 
- Scheduled surgery for valvular heart disease; 
- Active myocarditis; 
- Congenital heart diseases; 
- Previous cardiac transplantation or on list for cardiac transplantation; 
- Cardiac resynchronisation therapy (CRT) started within the previous 6 months; 
- Pacemaker with atrial or ventricular pacing (except bi-ventricular pacing) > 40% of the time, or with 
a stimulation threshold at the atrial or ventricular level ≥ 60 bpm; 
- Permanent atrial fibrillation or flutter; 
- Sick sinus syndrome, sinoatrial block, 2nd and 3rd degree atrio-ventricular block; 
-  History  of  symptomatic  or  sustained  (≥  30  sec)  ventricular  arrhythmia  unless  a  cardioverter 
defibrillator was implanted; 
- Any cardioverter defibrillator shock experienced within the previous 6 months; 
- Patients with familial history or congenital long QT syndrome or treated with selected QT prolonging 
products; 
- Severe or uncontrolled hypertension (sitting systolic blood pressure > 180 mmHg or sitting diastolic 
blood pressure > 110 mmHg); 
- Sitting systolic blood pressure < 85 mmHg or current symptomatic hypotension; 
-  Known  moderate  or  severe  liver  disease  (Child-Pugh  score  >  7)  or  known  severe  renal  disease 
(serum creatinine > 220 μmol/L) or known anaemia (blood haemoglobin < 110 g/L); 
8
 
 
 
Treatments 
The  trial  consisted  of  a  pre-randomisation  period  of  2  weeks  without  study  treatment  to  confirm 
eligibility  and  clinical  stability,  followed  by  a  post-randomisation  period  of  up  to  42  months  during 
which  patients  received  either  ivabradine  or  placebo  in  addition  to  their  ongoing  cardiovascular 
treatment. The starting dose of ivabradine was 5 mg b.i.d. which was increased to 7.5 mg b.i.d. at 2 
weeks or subsequently at any time during the study unless heart rate was ≤ 60 bpm, or decreased to 
2.5  mg  b.i.d.  if  heart  rate  was  <  50  bpm  or  the  patient  experienced  signs  or  symptoms  related  to 
bradycardia.  Study  visits  were  scheduled  at  2  weeks,  1  month,  4  months,  and  then  every  4  months 
(see figure below).  
Determining HR  after  5  min  rest  from single ECG was  not  considered  very  reliable  by  the  CHMP.  The 
Committee believed that ambulatory ECG- recordings or at least repeated ECG-recordings would have 
been  more  reliable  and  the  MAH  provided  further  justifications  also  indicating  that  all  patients  had  a 
resting HR measurement on ECG recording repeated twice, at Selection and Inclusion visits separated 
by  a  14  days  interval.  ECG  recording  was  said  to  be  more  precise  than  pulse  palpation,  and 
measurement  after  a  period  of  5  minutes  rest  has  been  recommended  by  a  European  Society  of 
Hypertension consensus meeting.  
Figure 1: Study design of the SHIFT trial 
Objectives 
The primary objective was to demonstrate the superiority of ivabradine over placebo in the reduction 
of  cardiovascular  mortality  or  hospitalisation  for  worsening  heart  failure  (composite  endpoint),  in 
patients  with  moderate  to  severe  symptoms  of  chronic  heart  failure  (CHF),  a  reduced  left  ventricular 
ejection fraction (LVEF) and receiving currently recommended therapy for this disease. 
The secondary objectives were to assess the effects of ivabradine compared to placebo on: 
-  The  primary  composite  endpoint  in  patients  receiving  at  least  half  of  the  target  daily  dose  of  beta-
blockers at randomisation. 
- Death from heart failure and overall mortality, morbidity, functional capacity and clinical symptoms of 
heart failure in both the randomised set and randomised (at least half of the target dose) beta-blocker 
subset. 
9
 
 
 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary composite endpoint was the time to occurrence of the first event of cardiovascular death 
or hospitalization for worsening heart failure. 
Choice of the primary endpoint  
This trial has been conducted to reduce clinical endpoints associated with heart failure with treatment 
of  ivabradine.  Therefore  the  EMA  Guideline  on  Clinical  investigation  of  medicinal  products  for  the 
treatment of cardiac failure (CPMP/EWP/235/95 Rev. 1) is applicable to the current submitted dossier. 
The  duration  of  the  trial  was  sufficiently  long  to  identify  long-term  efficacy  of  ivabradine.  Composite 
endpoints in heart failure trials have been subject for discussion, but the combination of cardiovascular 
morbidity and overall mortality is the recommended endpoint in the above mentioned EMA Guideline.  
According  to  the  guideline  overall  mortality  is  of  prime  importance.  A  composite  endpoint  including 
cardiovascular death is increasingly recognized as acceptable and has been used in recent heart failure 
trials  as  long  as  no  negative  effect  is  observed  on  overall-death.  In  the  current  trial  the  combined 
endpoint  of  hospitalizations  due  to  HF  and  CV  death  is  used  while  the  combined  endpoint  of 
hospitalizations  due  to  HF  and  overall  mortality  has  not  been  analysed  as  secondary  endpoint. 
Therefore, the MAH was requested to provide information on the combined endpoint of hospitalisation 
for  HF  and  overall  mortality.  The  effect  of  ivabradine  treatment  evaluated  with  the  heart  failure 
guideline-preferred composite endpoint of overall death and hospitalisation for worsening heart failure 
was consistent with the effect on the SHIFT defined primary composite endpoint. 
Secondary endpoints included: 
Individual  endpoints  of  all-cause  death,  cardiovascular  death,  all-cause  hospitalisation,  cardiovascular 
hospitalisation,  hospitalisation  for  worsening  heart  failure  and  the  composite  of  cardiovascular  death, 
hospitalisation for worsening heart failure, or hospitalisation for non-fatal myocardial infarction. 
In  addition,  an  evaluation  was  made  of  changes  in  functional  capacity  (assessed  by  NYHA 
classification),  and  in  clinical  symptoms  of  heart  failure  (assessed  by  Patient  Global  Assessment  and 
Physician Global Assessment questionnaires). 
The MAH was asked to provide further explanation as to why more objective measurements to assess 
the  clinical  status  of  the  patients  were  lacking  (such  as  NT-pro-BNP  measurements,  6  min  tests, 
spiroergometries,  or  regular  exercise  tolerance  tests).  Explanation  for  not  using  objective  tests  to 
estimate physical capacity of the heart failure patients seem to be mainly practical in nature. It would 
have  been  a  tedious  task  in  the  entire  study  population.  Six  min  walking  test  may  not  have  direct 
correlation  with  mortality,  but  it  is  largely  used  both  clinically  and  in  clinical  research  to  assess  the 
therapeutic  response.  Oxygen  intake  or  consumption  during  spiroergometry  were  used  to  assess  the 
suitability  of  the  heart  failure  patients  for  major  operations  or,  e.g.,  their  need  for  heart 
transplantation.  The  arguments  the  MAH  presented  can  not  be  disputed,  but  opposite  standpoints 
could be supported as well. NT-Pro-BNP results (in the Echo/BNP sub study of SHIFT, n=611) did not 
reach  statistical  significance,  but  this  was  understandable  since  ivabradine  does  not  impact  blood 
pressure or fluid overload significantly. Baseline pro-BNP levels appeared quite moderate (the patients 
belonged  mainly  to  NYHA  II  to  III  classes)  which  makes  large  improvements  due  to  ivabradine  use 
unlikely to occur. In the subgroups of patients with non-ischaemic heart failure, reduction of BNP-levels 
reached  statistical  significance  in  favour  of  ivabradine,  ratio  0.70,  95%  CI  0.51  to  0.96,  as  well  in 
patients not taking at least half of the target dose of beta blockers, ratio 0.78, 95% CI 0.62 to 0.99. 
The latter finding may be supportive of those patients who do not tolerate beta blockers, might benefit 
from ivabradine use. These explanations were considered by the CHMP as satisfactory.  
10
 
Sample size 
The  efficacy  analysis  was  based  on  6505  patients,  3241  in  the  ivabradine  group  and  3264  in  the 
placebo group.  
Randomisation 
Study treatments were allocated via an interactive response system (via telephone or internet) using a 
non-adaptive  and  balanced  randomisation,  with  two  stratification  factors:  study  centre  and  whether 
treated or not with beta-blockers at randomisation. 
Blinding (masking) 
Treatment  group  allocation  was  blinded  for  patients  and  investigators,  and  ivabradine  and  placebo 
tablets  were  identical  in  taste  and  appearance.  The  dose  level  of  study  treatment  (ivabradine  and 
placebo)  was  not  blinded.  Slight  problems  in  blinding  were  found,  the  patients  and  physicians  could 
assess  the  HR  affected  by  ivabradine  (a  decrease  by  15  bpm  in  general).  Adjudication  of  the  hard 
endpoints by the Endpoint Committee blindly of the treatment or baseline HR was not affected by any 
investigator  bias.  Reduced  heart  rates  (up  to  15  bpm)  were  observed  in  16%  to  20%  of  the  placebo 
patients whereas up to 14% to 18% of the ivabradine patients had a reduction less than 5 bpm.  
Statistical methods 
The  efficacy  analysis  was  performed  on  all  randomised  patients,  on  a  time-to-first-event  basis  and 
according  to the  intention-to-treat  principle  (ICH  E9,  1998).  The  main  analysis was  the  superiority  of 
ivabradine,  relative  to  placebo,  in  the  primary  endpoint  using  a  Cox’s  proportional  hazards  model, 
adjusted  for  the  randomisation  stratification  factor  of  beta-blocker  intake  or  not  at  randomisation 
(CPMP  /EWP/2863/99,  2003),  to  estimate  the  treatment  effect  in  terms  of  hazard  ratio  and  its  95% 
confidence  interval  and  p-value.  The  proportionality  of  hazard  was  checked  by  adding  an  interaction 
between  log  (time)  and  randomised  treatment  to  the  Cox  model.  The  influence  of  other  prognostic 
factors  was  also  investigated  using  adjusted  Cox  model.  Time-to-event  curves  were  estimated  using 
the Kaplan-Meier method. The main and sensitivity analyses were also applied to the main secondary 
endpoints.  Treatment  effects  and  95%  confidence  intervals  were  also  calculated  for  the  primary 
endpoint in pre-specified subgroups using Cox models containing treatment effect, beta-blocker status 
at  randomisation  and  subgroup  status.  P-values  for  interaction  between  randomised  treatment  and 
subgroup status were also obtained by adding treatment by subgroup interaction to the model.  
The type I error rate was 5% (two-sided) for all statistical tests. 
The independent Data Monitoring Committee performed two interim efficacy analyses. On the basis of 
the Peto procedure, the nominal significance level for evidence of benefit of ivabradine treatment was 
set  at  0.001  at  both  interim  analyses.  This  approach  does  not  significantly  affect  the  overall  type  I 
error rate used for the final analysis. 
Results 
Participant flow 
A  total  of  7411  patients  were  screened,  of  whom  7106  were  selected  and  entered  the  pre-
randomisation run-in period. Of these, 547 patients were excluded; 68 due to adverse events, 125 due 
to withdrawal of consent, 349 due to non-compliance with study criteria, and 5 for unknown reasons. 
The main reasons for non-compliance with study criteria related to having heart rate < 70 bpm, LVEF 
11
 
>  35%,  or  to  biological  exclusion  criteria.  The  remaining  6558  patients  were  randomised,  but  7 
patients were finally not included and did not receive the study drug. Two study centres and their 46 
patients  were  removed  from  the  trial  prior  to  unblinding,  due  to  invalid  data  caused  by  misconduct 
detected  during study audit. Excluded patients were evenly distributed among treatment groups. The 
efficacy analysis was therefore based on 6505 patients, 3241 in the ivabradine group and 3264 in the 
placebo group.  
Figure 2: Participant flow of the SHIFT trial 
The  MAH  stated  that  53  randomised  patients  were  excluded  from  the  efficacy  analyses  (exclusion  of 
two  centres  entirely  accounting  for  46  patients,  and  7  patients  not  receiving  study  drugs  due  to 
exclusion  criteria  [6]  or  adverse  event  [1]).  The  MAH  was  asked  to  submit  analysis  including  these 
patients. Inclusion of patients from the misconducting study centres did not affect the outcome of the 
study,  thus  it  is  safe  to  exclude  those  patients  due  to  GCP  violations.  Definition  of  the  study 
populations (ITT, no PP) is acceptable. 
Conduct of the study 
Patients eventually received study drug according to the dose titration schemes provided below. 
Table 1:  Study drug dose titration profiles 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The dosing scheme for ivabradine was essentially similar to the dosing scheme already described in the 
SmPC and used in clinical practice. Most patients adhered to the standard dose scheme of 5 mg to 7.5 
mg uptitration without any back titration (60%). It was not surprising that more patients (90%) in the 
placebo  group  were  without  problems  up  titrated  to  7.5  mg  BID  –  as  it  is  unlikely  affecting  HR.  The 
MAH  was  asked  whether  any  relation  exists  between  reached  target  dose  level  of  ivabradine  and  the 
effect on the primary endpoint.  
Sixty percent of patients in SHIFT were able to follow the standard uptitration scheme, from a starting 
dose of 5 mg uptitrated to a maintenance dose of 7.5 mg. The 40% of patients who followed different 
titration  schemes  resulting  in  lower  maintenance  doses  also  had  lower  baseline  heart  rates.  Both 
strategies resulted in considerable reductions in heart rate (14.9 and 12.6 bpm) resulting in on therapy 
mean heart rates (last recorded HR) that remained lower in low dose patients (61.2 bpm) than in high 
dose  patients  (68.8  bpm).  Finally,  no  difference  was  observed  in  effect  size  for  patients  on  lower 
maintenance  doses,  2.5  or  5  mg,  versus  those  on  a  7.5  mg  dose.  These  results  are  in  line  with  the 
McAllister  paper  [2009  Ann  Int  Med]  that  showed  that  heart  rate  control  may  be  more  relevant  than 
achieving  target  beta  blocker  dose.  The  data  therefore  supported  the  proposed  flexible  titration 
scheme. The CHMP agreed with this opinion.  
Baseline data 
Baseline  data  for  the  included  patients  is  provided  in  the  table  below.  The  mean  age  of  patients 
included  in  to  the  trial  was  about  60  years  of  age.  Patients  mostly  had  heart  failure  due  to  ischemic 
causes,  had  an  ejection  fraction  of  29%,  had  NYHA  class  II  or  III  and  a  heart  rate  of  80.  The  vast 
majority used a beta-blocker, RAAS blocker and diuretic. 
Table 2: Demographic and clinical characteristics at baseline, expressed as n patients (%) unless 
stated otherwise. 
13
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Specific information on CHF at baseline. 
14
 
 
 
 
 
The  inclusion  criteria  resulted  in  the  inclusion  of  6505  HF  patients  across  NYHA  class  II  to  IV  with  a 
LVEF of 35% with the aim of a claim of treatment with ivabradine in symptomatic HF patients.  
However, only a very small proportion of patients  with NYHA class IV were  ultimately included in the 
trial (1-2% patients). Therefore, it was questioned by the CHMP whether the trial results also apply to 
these severe HF patients. It was also discussed whether specific recommendations should be included 
within  the  SmPC  and  whether  the  data  suffice  to  lift  the  current  contraindication  in  that  patient 
population.  The  MAH  clarified  that  111  patients  with NYHA  class  IV  heart  failure  were  included  in  the 
SHIFT trial. Approximately 20% of these patients used target doses of beta blockers, and 40% used at 
least 50% of the target dose of beta blockers. No significant differences were observed in the baseline 
characteristics  of  patients  in  the  ivabradine  (n=50)  and  placebo  (n=61)  groups.  Compared  to  the 
general study population, these patients were slightly older (62.8 vs. 60.4 years), had higher baseline 
HR 84 bpm vs 79.9 bpm, and lower systolic BP 115.7 vs. 121.7 mmHg. They used less beta blockers at 
target dose 20.2% vs. 26.1% or at least 50% of the target dose 40.4% vs. 55.7%, but more digitalis 
48.7%  vs.  21.8%.  The  average  decline  in  HR  throughout  the  study  was  10.4  to  13.2  bpm  in  the 
ivabradine group and 4.3 to 6.8 bpm in the placebo group. The decline in HR in the ivabradine-NYHA 
IV  patients  was  slightly  smaller  than  in  the  entire  population  of  ivabradine  patients.  Improvement  of 
NYHA class during the study was observed in 62% of the ivabradine patients and 44.3% of the placebo 
patients.  
15
  
 
 
In  the  subgroup  of  NYHA  IV  patients  with  HR  >  75  at  baseline  (n=87),  there  was  a  statistically 
significant  reduction  in  the  primary  composite  endpoint,  42.5%  in  the  ivabradine  group  vs.  68.1%  in 
the  placebo  group,  (hazard  ratio  0.53,  95%  CI  0.29 to  0.95,  p=0.03).  Positive  trends  were  observed 
also in all secondary endpoints. Incidence of cardiac failure was smaller in the ivabradine group, 32.0% 
vs.  41.0%.  Incidences  of  asymptomatic  bradycardia,  atrial  fibrillation,  angina  pectoris,  or  myocardial 
infarctions  did  not  differ  between  the  groups.  Sudden  death  was  reported  for  8%  in  the  ivabradine 
group vs. 18% in the placebo group. Death from any cause during the study was reported in 36.0% in 
the  ivabradine  group  vs.  49.2%  in  the  placebo  group.  Similar  observations  were  made  in  the 
subpopulations  with  baseline  HR  >  75  bpm.  In  patients  with  LVEF  <  20%  (n=615)  and  LVEF  <  15% 
(n=124):  in  the  first  population,  primary  endpoint  was  met  in  34.8%  of  the  ivabradine  patients  vs. 
38.3%  of  the  placebo  patients,  hazard  ratio  0.87,  95%  CI  0.75  to  0.90,  and  positive  trends  in 
secondary  endpoints.  If  only  the  patients  with  baseline  HR  >  75  bpm  were  taken  into  account,  the 
respective figures were hazard ratio 0.80, 95% CI 0.59 to 1.09 – indicating that if the patient did have 
baseline  heart  rate  control  by  e.g.,  sufficient  beta  blockade  -  the  efficacy  of  ivabradine  became  less 
evident.  
In the LVEF < 15% population the respective figures were 30.9% in the ivabradine group vs. 34.8% in 
the placebo group, hazard ratio 0.88, 95% CI 0.75 to 0.90. And in patients with baseline HR > 75 bpm 
the  respective  figures  were  hazard  ratio  0.73,  95%  CI  0.34  to 1.57.  In  the LVEF  <  20%  group  there 
were 12 cases (4.0%) with “unstable angina” as emergent adverse event in the ivabradine group and 6 
(1.9%)  in  the  placebo  group.  There  was  however  no  correlation  observed  with  mortality  from  the 
myocardial  infarctions.  Atrial  fibrillation  was  reported  in  9.4%  of  the  ivabradine  patients  vs.  6.4%  of 
the  placebo  patients,  and  sudden  death  in  5.0%  of  the  ivabradine  patients  vs.  3.8%  of  the  placebo 
patients. Asymptomatic or symptomatic bradycardia was observed more in the ivabradine group 5.4% 
vs. 1.6% in the placebo group. Overall mortality was smaller in the ivabradine group 21.4% vs. 26.8% 
in  the  placebo  group.  In  the  LVEF<  15%  group,  atrial  fibrillation  was  reported  in  10.9%  of  the 
ivabradine  patients  vs.  4.4%  of  the  placebo  patients,  and  sudden  cardiac  death  in  3  (5.5%)  of  the 
ivabradine patients vs. 0 of the placebo patients. Asymptomatic or symptomatic bradycardia was again 
observed  more  in  the  ivabradine  group.  Overall  mortality  was smaller  in  the  ivabradine  group  12.7% 
vs. 29.4% in the placebo group. 
The  analyses  indicate  consistent  treatment  effects  as  compared  to  those  in  the  overall  population. 
Similar treatment effects were also observed in patients with very low ejection fractions; LVEF ≤ 20% 
and  ≤  15%,  of  which  slightly  more  patients  were  included,  614  respectively  124  patients.  A  higher 
incidence of adverse events was reported in NYHA IV patients, however, in comparison to placebo, the 
safety profile was not different. This is reassuring, patients in NYHA IV often have high heart rates to 
compensate for poor ventricular function, and it would be this group that would stand to benefit most 
from  a  heart  rate  lowering  therapy.  The  CHMP  considered  that  following  the  results  from  the  SHIFT 
study  the  removal  from  the  section  4.3  (Contraindications)  of  the  SmPC  previous  contraindication  for 
patients  in  NYHA  III  and  IV,  and  the  modifications  of  the  section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  (Warnings)  were 
justified.  In  section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  the  CHMP  proposed  to  remove  the  warnings  for  NYHA  I  and  II 
patients,  and  to  include  a  cautioning  statement  for  patients  in  NYHA  IV.  The  study  protocol  specified 
that patients had to be in a stable clinical condition with regards to CHF symptoms. Therefore, none of 
the  patients  with  NYHA  IV  were  patients  who  were  unstable  or  could  be  considered  presenting  with 
acute  heart  failure.  A  relevant  contraindication  for  unstable  or  acute  heart  failure  patients  was 
introduced in the SmPC.  
HF is a very heterogeneous disease, but the demographics of the study population indicate that various 
etiologies  are  evenly  distributed  across  both  treatment  groups.  The  majority  of  patients  had  an 
ischemic  event  as  primary  cause  of  their  heart  failure.  Overall,  patient  characteristics  are  evenly 
distributed over the treatment groups. Patients were relatively young (approx. 60 ± 11 years) with on 
16
 
average  3.5  ±  4.2  years  duration  of  their  HF.  Generally,  inclusion  criteria  were  met.  However, 
approximately  1%  of included  patients  had  no  documented  hospitalisation  for  worsening  heart  failure 
in the previous 12 months before randomization but it is unlikely this affected the treatment outcome 
due  to  the  low  numbers.  Patients  received  appropriate  and  state-of-the-art  background  therapy  of 
beta-blocker, RAAS inhibitors, diuretics and aldosterone antagonists. 90% of the patients received an 
ACE-inhibitor  and/or  a  beta-blocker.  The  MAH  has  demonstrated  that  this  was  evenly  distributed 
during  the  trial.  Inclusion  of  patients  using  amiodarone  is  of  high  clinical  value.  HF  patients  carry  a 
high  risk  for  atrial  and  ventricular  arrhythmias  and  are  often  prescribed  potent  antiarrhytmics.  The 
CHMP paid particular attention to the efficacy and safety aspects in this group of patients. Around 10% 
of  the  SHIFT-study  population  took  potent  anti-arrhythmics.  188  patients  received  amiodarone  (class 
III) at randomisation and 415 patients started amiodarone during the study (total n=603). 52 patients 
received either propafenone (n=13, class Ic), mexiletine (n=5, class Ib), quinidine (n=4, class Ia), or 
procainamide (n=2, class Ia). Further 32 patients were at least once administered lidocaine (class Ib). 
In this subpopulation, the incidence of the PCE was 36.2% in the ivabradine group and 44.0% in the 
placebo  group,  RR  0.72,  95%  CI  0.56  to  0.93,  p=0.017.  For  hospitalisations  from  heart  failure  the 
figures  were  21.6%  vs.  30.8%,  RR  0.60,  95%  CI  0.44  to  0.82,  p=0.0014,  and  for  death  from  heart 
failure 8.5% vs. 13.2%, RR 0.59, 95% CI 0.36 to 0.97, p=0.038. Atrial fibrillation was more common 
in this subpopulation and use of ivabradine increased it further. No additional safety concerns could be 
observed.  Thus,  the  benefit/risk  ratio of  ivabradine appears  favourable  in  patients  taking  amiodarone 
or potent class I anti-arrhythmics.  
Within initial submission the confounding effects of the concomitant medications (e.g., changes in the 
doses  or  use  of  beta  blockers  during  the  study)  have  not  been  fully  investigated  or  reported  (use  of 
digitalis  glycosides  or  other  antiarrhytmics).  This  issue  was  further  discussed  within  the  responses  to 
the CHMP Request for the Supplementary Information. The need to initiate a beta blocker or increase 
the  beta  blocker  dose  during  the  study  was  higher  in  patients  taking  placebo.  The  reasons  for  such 
actions were not elucidated individually, but they may have to do with optimal HR control. Assumption, 
that increasing the dose of beta blocker would improve the HR control and cause more benefit for the 
placebo patients than ivabradine patients, would only strengthen the idea of the efficacy of ivabradine 
in the primary and secondary efficacy outcomes. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Treatment duration 
The  median  duration  of  follow-up  was  22.9  months  (mean  21.9  months);  the  median  treatment 
duration was 21.6 months (mean 20.1 months) and was similar in both groups. 65.5% of patients had 
a treatment duration ≥ 18 months and 35.3% of ≥ 24 months. Three patients were lost to follow-up 
and they were censored at their last contact time. 
Primary endpoint results 
The  incidence  of  the  primary  endpoint,  the  composite  of  cardiovascular  death  or  hospitalisation  for 
worsening  heart  failure,  was  significantly  lower  in  the  ivabradine  group  (24.5%)  than  with  placebo 
(28.7%),  corresponding  to  an  18%  relative  risk  reduction  (hazard  ratio  0.82,  95%  CI  0.75–0.90,  p 
<0.0001; see table below) and a 4.2% absolute risk reduction in the primary endpoint. 
Treatment with ivabradine for 1 year would prevent one cardiovascular death or hospital admission for 
heart  failure  for  every  26  patients  treated.  The  Corresponding  numbers  of  patients  needed  to  be 
treated  for  1  year  to  prevent  one  hospitalisation  for  heart  failure  and  one  hospitalisation  for  any 
cardiovascular reason are 27 patients and 34 patients, respectively. 
17
 
Table 4: Primary and main secondary endpoints 
Figure 3: Kaplan-Meier survival curve of the primary composite endpoint 
Endpoints of causes of hospitalisation showed consistent results of greater efficacy with ivabradine [see 
below]. 
18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PY= patient years 
Subgroup analyses 
Figure 4: Treatment effects on the primary composite endpoint in pre-defined subgroups 
The Heart Rate subgroup was the only subgroup with p for interaction reaching statistical significance 
(p=0.029).  
Short-term physical improvements 
Heart rate decrease 
Between  baseline  and  28  days,  heart  rate  decreased  by  15.4  bpm  in  the  ivabradine  group  compared 
with 4.6 bpm in the placebo group, a difference of -10.9 bpm (95%CI -11.4;-10.4). 
19
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NYHA class improvement 
There was a modest but statistically significant improvement in NYHA class with ivabradine relative to 
placebo  during  the  study;  at  the  last  recorded  value,  28%  of  patients  in  the  ivabradine  group  had 
improved by ≥ 1 NYHA class relative to baseline, compared with 24% with placebo (p = 0.001). 
Table 5: Change in NYHA class between baseline and last visit. 
Symptom improvement 
At  the  last  recorded  value,  patient-reported  global  assessment  improved  in  72%  of  patients  in  the 
ivabradine  group,  compared  with  68%  in  the  placebo  group  (p  =  0.0005),  and  physician-reported 
global  assessment  improved  in  61%  of  patients  in  the  ivabradine  group  and  57%  with  placebo  (p  = 
0.0011). For month 4, 12 and 24 this is shown in the figure below. 
20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5: Global assessment questionnaire by study visit for patients (left panel) and physicians (right 
panel). 
Beta-blocker use 
The  extent  of  concomitant  beta-blocker  use,  reasons  for  not  reaching  target  beta-blocker  dose  and 
impact on study outcome are described below. 
21
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Table  6:  Daily  doses  of  beta-blocker,  and  reasons  for  not  receiving  the  target  dose  expressed  as  n 
patients (%), unless stated otherwise 
MAH provides several analyses in the subgroup of patients receiving at least half of the target dose of 
a beta-blocker  (N = 3181 patients). In this subgroup a total of 330 patients (20.9%, 11.9%PY) in the 
ivabradine group versus 362 (22.6%,  13.3%PY) in the placebo  group reached the  primary composite 
endpoint.  The  estimate  of  the  corresponding  hazard  ratio  using  an  unadjusted  Cox  proportional 
hazards  model,  was  0.90  (95%  CI  [0.77;  1.04]),  indicating  a  trend  towards  a  risk  reduction  in  the 
ivabradine group (p = 0.155). 
Table 7: Primary endpoint in the subgroup receiving at least half of the target dose of a beta-blocker 
22
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure  6:  Treatment  effects  on  the  primary  composite  endpoint  in  pre-defined  subgroups  in  the 
subgroup of patients receiving at least half of the target dose of beta-blocker. 
Heart rate 
The  MAH  has  provided  an  analysis  of  treatment  effect  stratified  for  patients  with  baseline  HR  above 
and below 77 bpm on the primary endpoint (see figure 4). Additional analyses were also provided on 
the individual components of the primary endpoint and death from any cause (below): 
Hospitalisation for heart failure 
CV death  
Death from any cause 
Figure 7: Individual components of the primary endpoint and death from any cause for the subgroup 
stratification of heart rate. 
The  CHMP  concluded  that  subgroup  analyses  showed  generally  consistent  effects.  However,  two 
principal  interrelated  issues  remain.  First,  the  observation  that  patients  with  the  higher  baseline  HR 
(≥77 bpm) show the greatest benefit (p for interaction 0.029). This is in line with the proposed MoA, 
but leads to the question what baseline HR is the most appropriate cut-off. Second, concomitant use of 
23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
beta-blockers reduces the effect size, albeit that no statistical significant interaction was observed. The 
efficacy of ivabradine treatment seems to be inversely related to beta-blocker dose used in the SHIFT 
trial. The benefit of ivabradine was most pronounced in those patients not receiving beta-blocker [RR 
0.68  95%CI  0.52  –  0.88],  and  was  less  [RR  0.82  95%CI:  0.76-0.94]  in  the  overall  population  and 
lowest  in  the  population  at  least  half  target  BB  dose  [RR0.90  95%CI:  0.77-1.04].  It  is  therefore 
uncertain what the benefit of ivabradine will be when added to target beta-blocker dose.  
Thus,  the  MAH  was  asked  to  discuss  this  apparent  inverse  relationship  between  %  of  target  dose  of 
beta-blocker and beneficial effects of ivabradine with respect to the overall impact on the benefit/risk 
balance  in  patients  treated  with  (near)  optimal  beta-blocker  doses  and  the  implications  of  these 
findings for the indication. A separate analysis was asked for the patient groups that did achieve target 
dose (26%). Furthermore, it can be expected that patients using higher doses of beta-blocker have a 
lower  baseline  HR.  The  patients  with  the  lowest  baseline  HR  and  the  highest  dose  of  beta-blocker 
probably benefit least when ivabradine is added to their HF therapy. In line with this hypothesis in the 
Böhm [2010 Lancet] paper fewer patients in the highest HR quintiles were prescribed beta-blockers at 
randomisation (p<0.0001). Beta-blockers were prescribed ranging from 93% in the lowest quintile (70 
to 72 bpm) and 82% in the highest quintile (≥87 bpm) of patients in SHIFT. Therefore, the MAH was 
asked to discuss the implications on clinical efficacy of ivabradine of this finding. In the same article by 
Böhm  the  effect  of  ivabradine  treatment  increases  with  HR,  in  line  with  the  subgroup  analysis  in  the 
dossier on patients with baseline HF ≥ 77bpm. Up to a baseline rate of 75 bpm the point estimate is 
close to 1 indicating a null effect of adding ivabradine to ‘optimal’ baseline therapy [see figure below]. 
This  finding  supports  the  mechanism  of  action  but  questions  whether  the  correct  cut-off  for  initiating 
ivabradine treatment may be higher than 70, probably above 75.  
Reasons for not reaching beta-blockers target dose 
In the response the MAH confirmed that only 26% of patients were on target dose and 49% of patients 
received at least 50% of the target beta blocker dose. This may be in line with clinical practice, despite 
efforts  of  the  SHIFT  investigators  to  optimize  background  therapy.  Still,  the  MAH  was  asked  to  for 
further  justifications.  It  was  questioned  whether  patients  were  really  on  their  maximum  tolerated 
target  dose.  One  reason  could  be  that  patients  were  slow  CYP2D6  metabolisers,  however,  it  is 
unknown whether any patients were genotyped and to what extent this may have played a role. Some 
24
 
 
 
of the mentioned reasons for not increasing beta-blocker dose are not well understood. In almost half 
of the cases patients were not on their target dose of beta-blockers because of hypotension. Yet ‘blood 
pressure not controlled’ was one of the most reported adverse events, whereas hypotension was only 
reported in a small proportion of patients (1.9% see safety section). In addition, bradycardia was the 
reported reason for not receiving target beta-blocker dose only in 6% of patients.  
The company provided the data for the subgroup of patients on target beta-blocker dose. Event rates 
(20.1%  vs.  20.1%;  ivabradine  vs.  placebo)  in  this  subpopulation  were  lower  than  in  the  overall 
population (24.5% vs. 28.7%). No treatment effect was observed on the primary endpoint (HR 0.99; 
0.79-1.24). Again, for the individual components of the primary endpoint no or a diminished treatment 
effect  was  observed  for  those  on  target  BB  dose  versus  the  overall  population  (hospitalization  for 
worsening HF 0.84 [0.63-1.11] vs HR 0.74 [0.66-0.83], and CV death 1.08 [0.78-1.48] vs 0.91 [0.80-
1.03]).  The  MAH  presented  also  data  for  the  patients  (n=938)  on  target  BB  dose  but  with  baseline 
heart rate ≥ 75 bpm. In this relatively small subgroup there was still no effect on the primary endpoint 
(HR  0.97  [0.74-1.28]).  However,  hospitalization  for  worsening  HF  (HR  0.79  [0.56-1.10])  and  death 
from HF (HR 0.69 [0.31-1.56]), although not statistically significant, showed protective effects. Other 
endpoints  were  inconclusive  with  hazard  ratios  close  to  one.  In  conclusion,  treatment  effects  of 
ivabradine  are  attenuated  when  patients  are  on  target  beta  blocker  dose.  Nevertheless,  in  the  SHIFT 
trial  patients  on  target  beta-blocker  dose,  but  with  baseline  heart  rate  ≥  75  bpm  demonstrated 
positive effect on specific heart failure endpoints. 
Given that the CHMP questioned whether patients not on target dose of beta-blockers were optimally 
treated.  The  MAH  has  provided  sufficient  justification  that  all  possible  effort  had  been  made  to 
ascertain that patients were on their maximally tolerated BB dose. Specific attention was paid to this in 
the  trial  oversight  as  documented  in  eCRF  and  protocol.  Investigators  were  explicitly  asked  to  treat 
patients with optimal dose of beta-blocker according to the protocol. In SHIFT 26% of patients were on 
target BB dose, which is in the lower range when compared to reported CHF trials or clinical practice. 
However,  when  looking  at  baseline  blood  pressure  across  trials  and  clinical  practice  surveys,  blood 
pressure  was  clearly  lower  in  SHIFT.  Hypotension  was  thus  in  SHIFT  the  main  cause  recorded  in  the 
eCRF why patients were not on target BB dose. The recorded reason for not being on target dose was 
corroborated  by  the  finding  that  these  patients  not  on  target  BB  dose  had  lower  BP  (mean  SBP/DBP 
113/72  mmHg)  than  patients  on  target  dose  (mean  SBP/DBP  122/76  mmHg).  Other  –  sometimes 
overlapping  –  reasons  were  recorded  for  not  being  on  target  BB  dose.  The  main  other  reasons  were 
also  in  SHIFT:  hypotension,  older  age,  lower  LVEF,  NYHA  III/IV  similar  to  those  reported  in  previous 
CHF  trials  and  clinical  practice  surveys.  The  relation  between  a  patient’s  CYP2D6  status  and  reaching 
target  BB  dose  in  an  individual  patient  could  not  be  fully  established.  Genotyping  has  not  been 
performed; therefore it is not known whether patients were poor metabolisers. The MAH showed that 
across all beta blockers the ratio of achieved BB dose over target beta blocker dose was approximately 
0.5.  This  was  irrespective  of  the  role  of  CYP2D6  in  their  metabolism.  Taking  these  observations 
together, it seems unlikely that inhibition – drug induced or genetic – of the CYP2D6 isoenzyme played 
a major role in patients not reaching target BB dose. 
Data  previously  reported  suggest  that  75  bpm  might  be  a  clinically  useful  threshold  for  defining 
patients  who  may  benefit  from  ivabradine  treatment  (Böhm,  2010).  Sixty-five  percent  of  patients  in 
SHIFT  had  a  heart  rate  ≥  75  bpm.  This  subpopulation  benefitted  clearly  to  a  larger  extent  from 
ivabradine  treatment,  an  increased  benefit  that  was  observed  across  all  endpoints.  Event  rates  were 
higher  than in  the  overall  population  (26.6%  vs.  32.8%;  ivabradine  vs.  placebo)  The  safety  profile is 
comparable to the overall safety profile. Therefore, the benefit for this subgroup seems demonstrated 
more  clearly  and  the  MAH  has  proposed  to  adopt  the  indication  accordingly.  The  effects  were 
attenuated in patients who were on target BB dose, but the number of patients in this subgroup of this 
subpopulation  with  heart  rate  ≥75  bpm  is  relatively  small  (n=938).  Clear  beneficial  effects  were  still 
25
 
observed on heart failure-related hospitalizations and deaths. Other differences were reported as well 
between patients in the lower quintiles versus high quintiles, where patients were less severely ill and 
received a different drug regimen. These factors may have contributed all to some extent that a heart 
rate  lowering  strategy,  using  ivabradine,  in  heart  failure  patients  becomes  beneficial  only  when 
patients present with an appropriately elevated heart rate, here ≥75 bpm. The MAH proposal to modify 
the new indication to patients with baseline heart rate over 75 bpm instead of 70bpm was supported 
by the CHMP. Beta-blocker dose was indeed somewhat lower in the higher heart rate quintile groups. 
In  these  quintiles  hypotension  was  more  frequently  reported  as  a  reason  for  not  reaching  target  BB 
dose.  
Summary of main study 
The  following  tables  summarise  the  efficacy  results  from  the  main  studies  supporting  the  present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table X. Summary of Efficacy for trial CL3-16257-063 
Title: Effects of ivabradine on cardiovascular events in patients with moderate to severe 
chronic heart failure and left ventricular systolic dysfunction: the SHIFT study 
Study identifier 
CL3-16257-063 
Design 
A three-year, event-driven, phase III, randomised, double-blind placebo-
controlled, two-balanced arm parallel, international, multicentre study 
Hypothesis 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Planned treatment duration : from 12 up to 
52 months 
Planned duration : 14 days but duration 7 to 
30 days accepted 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
To demonstrate the superiority of ivabradine over placebo in the reduction of 
cardiovascular mortality and hospitalisations for worsening heart failure 
(composite endpoint), in patients with moderate to severe symptoms of 
chronic heart failure and a reduced left ventricular ejection fraction receiving 
currently recommended therapy for this disease.  
Treatments groups 
Ivabradine 
Mean treatment duration = 20.0  9.0 
months, N= 3241 patients in the RS 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Placebo 
Mean treatment duration = 20.2  8.9 
months, N= 3264 patients in the RS 
Primary composite endpoint   Time to occurrence of the first event of one of 
Secondary endpoints 
the following: cardiovascular death or 
hospitalisation for worsening heart failure. 
Time to occurrence of the first event of: 
-Cardiovascular death, 
-Hospitalisation for worsening heart failure, 
-All cause death,  
-Death from HF, 
-Hospitalisation for any cause, 
-Hospitalisation for CV reason. 
Database lock 
31st May 2010 
26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics  
Randomised patients (Intent to treat) 
Time to first event 
Treatment group 
Ivabradine  
3241 
Placebo 
3264 
Number of 
subjects 
Primary 
composite 
endpoint 
n (%) 
Cardiovascular 
death  
n (%) 
Hospitalisation 
for worsening 
heart failure  
n (%) 
All cause death 
n (%) 
Death from HF 
n (%) 
Hospitalisation 
for any cause 
n (%) 
Hospitalisation 
for CV reason  
n (%) 
Statistic test 
Primary 
composite 
endpoint 
Cardiovascular 
death 
Hospitalisation 
for worsening 
heart failure 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
793 (24.5%) 
937 (28.7%) 
449 (13.9%) 
491 (15.0%)  
514 (15.9%) 
672 (20.6%) 
503 (15.5%) 
552 (16.9%) 
113 (3.5%) 
151 (4.6%) 
1231 (38.0%) 
1356 (41.5%) 
977 (30.2%) 
1122 (34.4%) 
Comparison groups 
Ivabradine versus Placebo 
Cox’s proportional hazards model adjusted for beta-
blocker intake at randomization (Wald test) 
Hazard ratio 
95%CI  
0.82  
[0.75;0.90] 
p-value  
Hazard ratio 
95%CI  
p-value  
Hazard ratio 
95%CI  
p-value  
< 0.0001 
0.91 
[0.80;1.03] 
0.128 
0.74 
[0.66;0.83] 
< 0.0001 
All cause death 
Hazard ratio 
0.90 
95%CI  
p-value  
Death from HF 
Hazard ratio 
95%CI  
P-value  
Hospitalisation 
for any cause 
Hazard ratio 
95%CI  
[0.80;1.02] 
0.092 
0.74 
[0.58;0.94] 
0.0140 
0.89 
[0.82;0.96] 
27
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hospitalisation 
for CV reason 
p-value  
Hazard ratio 
95%CI  
p-value  
0.0027 
0.85 
[0.78;0.92] 
0.0002 
Notes 
Efficacy of ivabradine increases with baseline heart rate. Patients with HR ≥ 
75 bpm at baseline appear to be the population benefiting the most from 
the addition of ivabradine. 
Analysis description  Sub-group of patients with HR ≥ 75 bpm at baseline  
Randomised patients with HR ≥ 75bpm at baseline (Intent to treat) 
Time to first event 
Treatment group 
Ivabradine  
2052 
Placebo 
2098 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics  
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Number of 
subjects 
Primary 
composite 
endpoint 
n (%) 
Cardiovascular 
death  
n (%) 
Hospitalisation for 
worsening heart 
failure  
n (%) 
All cause death 
n (%) 
Death from HF 
n (%) 
Hospitalisation for 
any cause 
n (%) 
Hospitalisation for 
CV reason  
n (%) 
Statistic test 
Primary 
composite 
endpoint 
Cardiovascular 
death 
545 (26.6%) 
688 (32.8%) 
304 (14.8%) 
364 (17.4%)  
363 (17.7%) 
503 (24.0%) 
340 (16.6%) 
407 (19.4%) 
78 (3.8%) 
126 (6.0%) 
796 (38.8%) 
932 (44.4%) 
640 (31.2%) 
Comparison groups 
779 (37.1%) 
Ivabradine versus Placebo 
Cox’s proportional hazards model adjusted for beta-
blocker intake at randomization (Wald test) 
Hazard ratio 
0.76  
95%CI  
p-value  
Hazard ratio 
95%CI  
p-value  
[0.68;0.85] 
< 0.0001 
0.83 
[0.71;0.97] 
0.0166 
Hospitalisation for 
worsening heart 
failure 
Hazard ratio 
0.70 
95%CI  
p-value  
[0.61;0.80] 
< 0.0001 
All cause death 
Hazard ratio 
0.83 
95%CI  
p-value  
[0.72;0.96] 
0.0109 
28
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Death from HF 
Hazard ratio 
0.61 
Hospitalisation for 
any cause 
95%CI  
p-value  
Hazard ratio 
95%CI  
p-value  
[0.46;0.81] 
0.0006 
0.82 
[0.75;0.90] 
< 0.0001 
Hospitalisation for 
CV reason 
Hazard ratio 
0.79 
95%CI  
p-value  
[0.71;0.88] 
< 0.0001 
29
 
 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Ivabradine  is  a  heart  rate  lowering  agent,  acting  by  reducing  the  rate  of  pacemaker  activity  in  the 
sinoatrial  node.  Ivabradine  has  been  registered  for  treating  chronic  stable  angina  pectoris  with 
coronary  artery  disease.  The  MAH  proposes  to  extend  the  indication  to  patients  with  chronic  heart 
failure and a heart rate above 70 bpm. This was based on the SHIFT trial including patients with stable 
heart  failure  NYHA  class  II  to  IV  and  LVEF  ≤35%.  The  study  is  a  complex  study  in  design  and 
performed  worldwide  across  677  centres  in  37  countries.  The primary  composite  outcome,  as  well as 
several  important  secondary  endpoints  were  adjudicated  by  an  Independent  Endpoint  Validation 
Committee to confirm that reported events are of equal relevance across all site.  
Due to the complexity of this single pivotal trial for the benefit/risk assessment of ivabradine in heart 
failure, a GCP inspection was performed to evaluate the sponsor’s oversight over the whole study and 
results of the inspection were considered positive.  
The  MAH  demonstrated  a  significant  and  clinically  relevant  efficacy  of  ivabradine  versus  placebo  in 
addition to current standard treatment on the chosen composite endpoint of cardiovascular death and 
hospitalization  for  worsening  heart  failure  (HR  0.82  (95%CI  0.75-0.90),  p<0.0001)  with  an  absolute 
risk reduction of 4.2% during a 36 months of follow-up. A separation of effect appeared within the first 
6  months.  The  effect  is  driven  by  the  observed  difference  between  treatment  groups  in  the 
‘hospitalisation  due  to  worsening  heart  failure’  component  of  the  composite  endpoint.  Cardiovascular 
death showed a numerical benefit, but this change did not reach statistical significance.  
All other secondary endpoints showed consistent statistically significant beneficial effects of ivabradine 
compared  to  placebo,  except  for  the  –  most  robust  -overall  death  endpoint  where  only  a  numerical 
advantage  could  be  shown.  Symptomatic  improvements  demonstrated  similar  absolute  effects  as  the 
composite endpoint, although the relevance of an additional 4% of patients improving one NYHA class, 
or a similar proportion of physicians and patients reporting improved symptomatology appears small.  
The EMA Guideline on clinical investigation of medicinal products for the treatment of the heart failure 
[CPMP/EWP/235/95  Rev.  1]  preferred  primary  endpoint  would  have  at  least  included  all  cause 
mortality.  In  this  study  all  cause  mortality  was  a  secondary  endpoint.  All  primary  and  secondary 
analyses were in the same – beneficial – direction, therefore a reanalysis of an endpoint including all 
cause  mortality  would  not  change  conclusion  of  efficacy  of  ivabradine  in  the  overall  treatment 
population.  
Given that the objective measurements to assess the clinical status of the patients were lacking (such 
as  NT-pro-BNP  measurements,  6  min.  walking  tests,  spiroergometries,  or  regular  exercise  tolerance 
tests) the MAH provided additional explanations that were considered justified by the CHMP. Definitions 
of ITT and PP efficacy sets were also further discussed. The MAH provided also additional explanations 
regarding the determination of HR after 5 min rest from single ECG which were accepted by the CHMP. 
Slight problems in blinding were identified as the patients and physicians could assess the HR affected 
by ivabradine but this in the opinion of the CHMP did not affect the conduct of the study.  
Despite  the  inclusion  criteria  aiming  to  include  a  broad  range  of  symptomatic  HF  patients,  NYHA  HF 
class II to IV, only 1 to 2% of included patients were in NYHA class IV. However further explanations 
provided by the MAH reassured the CHMP that the results of this study apply as well to this population 
of patients and that the contraindication for this group of patients was deleted from section 4.3 of the 
SmPC.  
30
 
 
The  CHMP  noted  that  relatively  young  patients  (60±11  years)  were  included  in  the  SHIFT  trial.  The 
MAH provided subgroup analyses of treatment effects for patients ≥65 years of age and ≥70 years of 
age. The results were essentially similar to those observed in the overall population of the SHIFT trial. 
Although  the  impact  on  the  primary  endpoint  was  slightly  less,  and  not  statistically  significant,  in 
patients ≥65 years it was somewhat larger and significant in the over 70 years old. In addition, when 
considering  the  subpopulation  with  baseline  heart  rate  over  75  bpm,  also  in  the ≥65  years  beneficial 
effects were observed on the primary endpoint.  
No  specific  safety  concerns  emerged,  and  similar  rates  of  adverse  events  were  reported  in  elderly 
patients  in  both  ivabradine  and  placebo  treatment  groups.  Furthermore,  inclusion  of  patients  using 
amiodarone was considered by the CHMP of high clinical value.  HF patients carry a high risk for atrial 
and  ventricular  arrhythmias  and  are  often  prescribed  potent  antiarrhytmics.  The  efficacy  and  safety 
aspects in this group of patients were discussed by the MAH and considered in the SmPC and the RMP.  
In  SHIFT  a  similar  dosing  scheme  as  included  in  the  SmPC  was  used,  where  patients  were  up- 
respectively  down-titrated  to  7.5  mg  or  2.5  mg  BID  based  on  tolerability  (especially  HR<50  bpm  or 
bradycardia). Any dose response relationship has not been presented. However, only 60% reached the 
maximal dose. Further explanations were provided by the MAH as to which patients did not tolerate the 
maximal doses and the analysis of the benefit-risk according to dose reached.  
Prespecified  subgroup  analyses  demonstrated  consistent  effects  of  ivabradine.  However,  the 
prespecified subgroup of patients with the higher baseline HR (≥77 bpm) showed the greatest benefit. 
This  is  in  line  with  the  proposed  MoA,  but  leads  to  the  question  what  baseline  HR  is  the  most 
appropriate cut-off. Concomitant use of beta-blockers reduces the effect size, albeit that no statistical 
significant  interaction  was  observed  in  the  prespecified  subgroup  analysis  (yes/no  beta-blocker  use). 
Efficacy of ivabradine treatment seems to be inversely related to beta-blocker dose used in the SHIFT 
trial. The benefit of ivabradine was most pronounced in those patients not receiving beta-blocker [RR 
0.68 95%CI 0.52 – 0.88], and was less [RR 0.82 95%CI:0.76-0.94] in the overall population and was 
lowest  in  the  population  at  least  half  target  BB  dose  [RR  0.90  95%CI:  0.77-1.04].  It  is  therefore 
uncertain  what  the  benefit  of ivabradine  will  be  when  added  to  target  beta-blocker  dose.  In  addition, 
only  26%  of  patients  were  on  target  dose  and  56% of  patients  received  50%  or  more  of  target  beta 
blocker  dose.  This  may  be  in  line  with  clinical  practice  and  despite  effort  of  SHIFT  investigators  to 
optimize background therapy.  
However, the reasons for not achieving beta-blocker target dose were not fully clear. Hypotension was 
reported as reason for half of the patients not reaching target dose yet ‘blood pressure not controlled’ 
was  one  of  the  most  reported  adverse  events  but  only  few  cases  of  hypotension  were  reported.  In 
addition,  bradycardia  was  for  6%  of  patients  the  reported  reason  for  not  receiving  target  BB  dose, 
although these patients would likely not qualify for treatment with ivabradine or meet the HR inclusion 
criterion.  
On the other hand, poor CYP2D6 metabolisers may be considered on optimal beta blocker dose despite 
not  having  reached  target  dose.  In  the  published  study  of  Böhm  (Lancet  2010),  HR  was  divided  into 
quintiles  to  evaluate  the  relation  of  HR  to  clinical  outcome  in  the  SHIFT  trial.  Beta-blockers  were 
prescribed  more  in  the  lowest  quintile  compared  to  the  highest  quintile,  ranging  from  93%  in  the 
lowest quintile (70 to 72 bpm) and 82% in the highest quintile (≥87 bpm) of patients. It can also be 
expected that patients with lower baseline HR use higher doses of beta-blocker at baseline. Therefore, 
the MAH was asked the implications on clinical efficacy of ivabradine of this finding. In the same paper 
it was stated that the effect of ivabradine treatment increased with HR, but does not improve from a 
null  effect  below  a  baseline  HR  of  75  questioning  whether  a  higher  baseline  HR  as  cut  off  would  be 
more  appropriate  before  initiating  therapy  with  ivabradine.  In  the  response  the  MAH  confirmed  that 
only 26% of patients were on target dose and 56% of patients received at least 50% of the target beta 
31
 
blocker  dose.  This  may  be  in  line  with  clinical  practice,  despite  efforts  of  the  SHIFT  investigators  to 
optimize  background  therapy.  The  company  provided the  data  for  the  subgroup  of  patients  on  target 
beta-blocker dose. Event rates (20.1% vs. 20.1%; ivabradine vs. placebo) in this subpopulation were 
lower  than  in  the  overall  population  (24.5%  vs.  28.7%).  No  treatment  effect  was  observed  on  the 
primary endpoint (HR 0.99; 0.79-1.24). Again, for the individual components of the primary endpoint 
no  or  a  diminished  treatment  effect  was  observed  for  those  on  target  BB  dose  versus  the  overall 
population  (hospitalization  for  worsening  HF  0.84  [0.63-1.11]  vs  HR  0.74  [0.66-0.83],  and  CV  death 
1.08  [0.78-1.48]  vs  0.91  [0.80-1.03]).  The  MAH  presented  also  data  for  the  patients  (n=938)  on 
target BB dose but with baseline heart rate ≥  75 bpm. In this relatively small subgroup there was still 
no  effect  on  the  primary  endpoint  (HR  0.97  [0.74-1.28]).  However,  hospitalization  for  worsening  HF 
(HR 0.79 [0.56-1.10]) and death from HF (HR 0.69 [0.31-1.56]), although not statistically significant, 
showed protective effects. In conclusion, treatment effects of ivabradine are attenuated when patients 
are on target beta blocker dose. Nevertheless, in the SHIFT trial patients on target beta-blocker dose, 
but with baseline heart rate ≥ 75 bpm demonstrated positive effect on specific heart failure endpoints. 
The  MAH  has  provided  also  sufficient  justification  that  all  possible  effort  had  been  made  to  ascertain 
that patients were on their maximally tolerated BB dose. Specific attention was paid to this in the trial 
oversight  as  documented  in  eCRF  and  protocol.  Investigators  were  explicitly  asked  to  treat  patients 
with optimal dose of beta-blocker according to the protocol.  
Data  previously  reported  suggest  that  75  bpm  might  be  a  clinically  useful  threshold  for  defining 
patients  who  may  benefit  from  ivabradine  treatment.  Sixty-five  percent  of  patients  in  SHIFT  had  a 
heart  rate  ≥  75  bpm.  This  subpopulation  benefitted  clearly  to  a  larger  extent  from  ivabradine 
treatment, an increased benefit that was observed across all endpoints. Event rates were higher than 
in  the  overall  population  (26.6%  vs.  32.8%;  ivabradine  vs.  placebo).  The  safety  profile  in  this 
subgroup was comparable to the overall safety profile. Therefore, the benefit for this subgroup seemed 
to be demonstrated more clearly and the MAH has proposed to modify the indication accordingly. The 
CHMP agreed to this proposal.  
2.3.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The CHMP considered that the MAH provided sufficient data to support the extension of indications to 
include the Treatment of chronic heart failure: Ivabradine is indicated in chronic heart failure NYHA II 
to IV class with systolic dysfunction, in patients in sinus rhythm and whose heart rate is ≥ 75 bpm, in 
combination  with  standard  therapy  including  beta-blocker  therapy  or  when  beta-blocker  therapy  is 
contraindicated or not tolerated. (see section 5.1) 
2.4.  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
Adverse events  
Table 8: Overall summary of adverse events 
32
 
 
 
33
 
 
 
Table 9: Most common adverse events reported on treatment (>2% of patients in either treatment 
group) 
* Coding for asymptomatic bradycardia 
Treatment related adverse events 
Treatment-related AEs were more frequently reported in the ivabradine group (17.8%, 10.6%PY) than 
in  the  placebo  group  (8.3%,  4.9%PY).  The  difference  between  the  two  groups  was  mainly  due  to 
known adverse drug reactions of ivabradine, notably asymptomatic bradycardia (HR decreased: 4.6%, 
2.8%PY  versus  1.0%,  0.6%PY,  respectively),  symptomatic  bradycardia  (3.7%,  2.2%PY  versus  0.7%, 
0.4%PY, respectively), and phosphenes (2.7%, 1.6%PY versus 0.5%, 0.3%PY, respectively). Reported 
numbers  of  sudden  death  were  less  frequently  (3.4%,  2.1%PY  versus  3.7%,  2.2%PY)  and  sudden 
cardiac  death  events  more  frequently  reported  (2.3%,  1.4%PY  versus  2.1%,  1.2%PY)  for  ivabradine 
versus placebo respectively. 
34
 
 
 
Table 10: Treatment related adverse events on treatment in at least 5 patients in either patient group 
NEAE = number of emergent adverse events 
* Coding for asymptomatic bradycardia 
35
 
 
 
 
Bradycardia 
Bradycardia,  known  to  be  associated  with  ivabradine,  occurred  more  frequently  with  ivabradine  than 
with placebo: 
− Asymptomatic bradycardia, coded as heart rate decreased, was reported in 181 patients (5.6%) in 
the ivabradine group, compared with 45 patients (1.4%) with placebo; 
−  Symptomatic  bradycardia,  coded  as  bradycardia,  was  reported  in  148  patients  (4.6%)  in  the 
ivabradine group, compared with 28 patients (0.9%) with placebo. 
Serious symptomatic or asymptomatic bradycardia was reported in 18 patients (0.6%) and treatment 
withdrawal occurred in 48 patients (1.5%) in ivabradine group. 
Visual symptoms 
Patients  were  not  systematically  asked  for  about  visual  symptoms  during  this  trial.  Phosphenes  were 
reported  in  89  patients  (2.8%)  in  the  ivabradine  group  versus  16  patients  (0.5%)  with  placebo,  and 
blurred  vision  in  17  patients  (0.5%)  versus  7  patients  (0.2%)  with  placebo.  They  were  never  serious 
and unlikely to lead to treatment withdrawal (8 patients, 0.3%) in ivabradine group. 
Supraventricular arrhythmias 
The rate of supraventricular arrhythmias was similar in ivabradine (390 patients, 12.1%) and placebo 
(408  patients,  12.5%)  groups.  The  most  common  supraventricular  arrhythmia  was  atrial  fibrillation 
which  was  reported  more  frequently  with  ivabradine  (8.3%,  4.9%PY)  than  with  placebo  (6.7%, 
4.0%PY). These patients tended to be older (mean age 64.3 years), more likely to be in NYHA class III 
or  IV  and  to  have  a  previous  history  of  atrial  fibrillation  (in  approximately  one  quarter  of  these 
patients) than the overall population. 
Table  14:  Adverse  events  related  to  supraventricular  arrhythmias  recorded  on  treatment,  ≥  0.1%  of 
patients 
Ventricular arrhythmias 
Overall,  the  rate  of  ventricular  arrhythmias/cardiac  arrest  was  similar  in  both  groups.  Ventricular 
fibrillation occurred more frequently in the ivabradine group (0.7%, 0.4%PY) than in the placebo group 
(0.4%,  0.2%PY).  On  the  other  hand,  the  level  of  ventricular  tachycardia  was  lower  in  the  ivabradine 
group  (1.9%,  1.1%PY)  than  in  the  placebo  group  (2.2%,  1.3%PY).  There  was  no  difference  between 
group in the numbers of sudden deaths or sudden cardiac deaths. 
36
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15: Adverse events related to ventricular arrhythmias recorded on treatment, ≥ 0.1% of patients 
Other important adverse events 
Third  degree  atrioventricular  block  or  complete  atrioventricular  block  occurred  in  18  patients  (0.6%, 
0.3%PY)  in  the  ivabradine  group  and  in  6  patients  (0.2%,  0.1%PY)  in  the  placebo  group.  Blood 
pressure  inadequately  controlled  was  slightly  more  frequent  in  the  ivabradine  group  (228  patients, 
7.1%, 4.2%PY) than with placebo (198 patients, 6.1%, 3.6%PY). 
Serious adverse event (deaths/other significant events) recorded on treatment, restricted to system 
organ classes and preferred terms with ≥ 1% of patients affected. 
Deaths 
A  total  of  1074  fatal  events  occurred  during  the  study,  with  510  deaths  (15.8%)  in  the  ivabradine 
group  and  564  deaths  (17.3%)  with  placebo.  While  on  treatment,  400  (12.4%)  and  428  (13.1%) 
deaths  occurred  in  the  ivabradine  and  placebo  arms  respectively.  An  additional  246  fatal  events 
37
 
 
 
 
 
occurred  after  treatment  cessation,  110  additional  deaths  in  the  ivabradine  group  and  136  additional 
deaths with placebo. The difference between the treatment groups in the additional events was largely 
due  to  sudden  death  (ivabradine:  17  additional  deaths,  placebo:  27)  and  sudden  cardiac  death 
(ivabradine: 13 additional deaths, placebo: 20). 
Table 12: Deaths from any causes linked to on-treatment events by SOC for ≥0.4% of patients 
Safety in special populations 
Patients >75 years of age 
The  overall  incidence  of  EAEs  was  similar  in  the  ivabradine  group  (289  patients,  78.8%)  and  in  the 
placebo group (274 patients, 77.6%), although there was a slightly higher incidence of AEs related to 
cardiac  disorders  (ivabradine  184  patients,  50.1%;  placebo  167  patients,  47.3%),  including 
bradycardia,  which  was  more  common  with  ivabradine  (27  patients,  7.4%)  than  with  placebo  (5 
patients, 1.5%). The incidence of AEs related to heart failure was lower with ivabradine (107 patients, 
29.1%) than with placebo (120 patients, 34.0%), and the incidence of atrial fibrillation was similar in 
the two groups (ivabradine: 43 patients, 11.7%; placebo: 41 patients, 11.6%). 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
EAEs leading to treatment withdrawal occurred more frequently in the ivabradine group (467 patients, 
14.5%)  than  with  placebo  (416  patients,  12.8%)  The  difference  was  mainly  due  to  events  in  the 
system organ classes cardiac disorders (ivabradine: 303 patients, 9.4%; placebo: 270 patients, 8.3%) 
and  investigations  (ivabradine:  34  patients,  1.1%;  placebo:  11  patients,  0.3%).  Among  individual 
preferred  terms,  the  difference  was  largely  due  to  atrial  fibrillation,  in  line  with  the  protocol-directed 
withdrawal in case of sustained atrial fibrillation, and to bradycardia and heart rate decreased. On the 
other  hand,  withdrawals  were  slightly  less  frequent with  ivabradine  for  cardiac  failure  and  ventricular 
tachycardia. 
38
 
 
 
 
Table 13: Discontinuation due to adverse events in at least 5 patients in either group  
2.4.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing have 
been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics.  
The  safety  profile  shown  in  this  trial  was  consistent  with  the  safety  profile  already  demonstrated  in 
previous  trials.  The  higher  incidence  of  adverse  events  is  limited  to  the  typical  adverse  events 
associated  with  ivabradine.  In  addition,  the  MAH  was  asked  to  provide  the  analysis  excluding  cardiac 
failure  in  their  overall  presentation  of  the  adverse  events,  as  cardiac  failure  is  part  of  the  efficacy 
endpoints.  The  observed  reduction  in  cardiac  failure  affected  the  presentation  of  adverse  effects  in 
favour  of  the  active  treatment.  The  MAH  provided  data  on  the  adverse  event  rates  excluding  those 
attributable to heart failure. This resulted in still slightly higher adverse event rates in patients treated 
with  ivabradine  than  with  placebo.  However,  now  more  cardiac  events  were  reported  in  ivabradine 
users  compared  to  placebo,  which  can  be  attributed  to  the  more  frequently  reported  events  of  atrial 
fibrillation and bradycardia. This was also described in section 4.8 of the SmPC. Although, the adverse 
event  rate  showed  after  this  analysis  a  slightly  different  picture  in  the  opinion  of  the  CHMP  it  didn’t 
affect the benefit-risk of the product.  
39
 
 
 
Atrial fibrillation (AF) and bradycardia are known adverse effects of ivabradine. AF was reported more 
frequently with ivabradine (8.3%, 4.9%PY) than with placebo (6.7%, 4.0%PY). The MAH reported that 
these patients tended to be older (mean age 64.3 years), more likely to be in NYHA class III or IV and 
to have a previous history of atrial fibrillation (in approximately one quarter of these patients) than the 
overall  population.  In  provided  explanations  the  MAH  has  satisfactorily  addressed  the  possible 
mechanism that may lead to a higher incidence of AF and excluded that this increased numbers of AF 
led to a higher risk of stroke or sudden death. The CHMP agreed nevertheless on the inclusion of AF as 
an identified risk in the RMP and mentioning it in sections 4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC. 
The  vision  related  adverse  event  of  phosphenes  was  not  specifically  asked  for  within  the  trial  so 
incidence was lower as observed in other trials. 
Safety in patients with intraventricular conduction defects and desynchronised ventricular action were 
added as missing information to the RMP.  
In the tabulations in the SHIFT study report the reported cases of ventricular fibrillation and myocardial 
infarction  (with  fatal  outcome  but  not  the  total  of  cases)  seemed  more  common  in  the  ivabradine 
group.  The  MAH  has  demonstrated  that  there  was  no  increased  rate  of  hospitalisations  or  deaths  for 
myocardial infarctions based on adjudicated cases. Ventricular fibrillation as (a terminal event) may be 
difficult  to  document  and  may  be  related  to  several  underlying  causes.  The  approach  of  the  MAH  to 
categorize  the  verified  terminal  ventricular  fibrillations  under  category  sudden  cardiac  deaths  was 
considered  clinically  sound.  The  MAH  has  also  pointed  out  that  if  looking  at  the  number  of  cases  of 
ventricular  tachycardia  and  ventricular  fibrillation  together,  the  incidence  is  similar  in  both  treatment 
groups. 
These  were  also  known  adverse  events  limiting  the  use  of  ivabradine,  however,  for  bradycardia  this 
was  at  a  relative  small  incidence  as  patients  were  on  a  high  HR  of  more  than  70  bpm  at  baseline. 
Ventricular  arrhythmias  were  not  observed  more  frequently  in  the  ivabradine  group.  However,  the 
most serious, ventricular fibrillation, was numerically increased. An increased occurrence of ventricular 
fibrillation (24 (0.7%) versus 12 (0.4%), for ivabradine versus placebo) did not result in a higher rate 
of  sudden  death  or  sudden  cardiac  death  on  or  off treatment  with  ivabradine  in  the  study  population 
and is probably coincidental due to the small number of patients.  
In  hypertensive  patients,  blood  pressure  inadequately  controlled  was  slightly  more  frequent  in  the 
ivabradine group (228 patients, 7.1%, 4.2%PY) than with placebo (198 patients, 6.1%, 3.6%PY). 
The  MAH  provided  a  further  discussion  on  the  reasons  for  the  high  incidence  of  uncontrolled  BP 
observed  in  the  SHIFT  trial.  The  most  likely  reason  was  that  a  hemodynamically  less  stable  and  an 
older  population  was  recruited  in  SHIFT  compared  to  previous  trials  with  ivabradine.  Events  followed 
specifically  when  blood  pressure  medication  had  been  modified  shortly  before  the  event.  The  CHMP 
supported therefore to include uncontrolled BP as an identified but not as a potential risk in the RMP. 
In  addition,  the  SmPC  warns  that  CHF  patients  treated  with  ivabradine  in  need  of  BP  treatment 
modification  should  be  carefully  monitored.  Since,  BP  increases  were  transient  and  these  patients 
benefitted  equally  from  the  treatment  with  ivabradine  (similar/better  effect  on  the  primary  endpoint) 
no further concerns remain. Uncontrolled blood pressure was also added as a common ADR in section 
4.8 of the SmPC. 
For the subgroup of patients with very low cardiac output / NYHA IV class heart failure safety has not 
been  established  conclusively,  as  these  patients  were  included  in  the  population  of  NYHA  III  +  NYHA 
IV.  A  subgroup  analysis  was  performed  and  the  CHMP  agreed  to  lift  the  current  contraindication  for 
NYHA  class  IV  patients  in  the  SmPC.  A  higher  incidence  of  adverse  events  was  reported  in  NYHA  IV 
patients. However, in comparison to placebo, the safety profile was not different. This was also true for 
adverse events short after treatment initiation. This is reassuring, patients in NYHA IV often have high 
40
 
heart rates to compensate for poor ventricular function, and it would be this group that would stand to 
benefit most from a HR lowering therapy. In view of the very small group of patients with NYHA class 
IV in the SHIFT trial it was decided to include a warning in the SmPC for stable NYHA IV patients. No 
data  have  been  collected  for  unstable  NYHA  IV  patients.  Unstable  heart  failure  was  an  exclusion 
criterion and therefore it is mentioned in the list of contraindications. 
When looking more in detail in the safety profile, specific differences can be identified. More cases with 
ivabradine  were  identified  for  bradycardia  related  events,  BP  inadequately  controlled,  AF,  and 
phosphenes.  These  are  all  adverse  events  typically  associated  with  the  use  of  ivabradine  except  for 
blood  pressure  inadequately  controlled.  This  last  adverse  event  was  not  frequently  adverse  event 
associated  with  treatment.  Also  discontinuations  due  to  adverse  events  were  higher  with  ivabradine. 
This  can  specifically  be  related  to  known  safety  issues  of  ivabradine.  Symptomatic  bradycardia  is 
indeed a side effect limiting the use of ivabradine, however, it occurred relatively infrequently due to 
the prespecified baseline HR > 70 bpm. AF was the main cardiac associated adverse event leading to 
treatment discontinuation. In this heart failure population AF appears to be more frequently associated 
with  ivabradine  (8.3%)  than  with  placebo  (6.7%)  treatment.  Second  and  third  degree  AV  block,  and 
sick sinus syndrome were also identified as very rare adverse events.  
2.4.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The CHMP considers the safety profile of ivabradine demonstrated in the SHIFT trial as consistent with 
the safety profile already demonstrated in previous trials. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
The  MAH  submitted  an  updated  Risk  Management  Plan  within  this  variation  procedure.  Based  on  the 
safety  conclusions,  the  CHMP  requested  the  submission  of  an  updated  Risk  Management  Plan  within 
this procedure. 
41
 
Table 1.  Summary of the risk management plan (including the changes related to the application 
presented highlighted) 
Safety issues 
Agreed  pharmacovigilance  activities  (routine 
and additional) 
Agreed 
activities 
additional) 
risk  minimisation 
and 
(routine 
Identified risks 
Bradycardia 
-  Assessment  of  cardiac  rhythm  through  systematic 
12-lead  ECG  recordings  and  collection  of  adverse 
events at each scheduled and unscheduled visits in 
all  ongoing  or  planned 
interventional  clinical 
studies 
-  Information  included  in  the 
following 
the 
SmPC: 4.1; 4.2; 4.3, 4.4, 4.8 
sections  of 
of 
reinforcement 
-  Registration  and  ad  hoc  follow-up  of  spontaneous 
cases  with 
routine 
Pharmacovigilance  procedures  from  prescription 
sources:  all  excessive  bradycardia  (<40  bpm  or 
symptomatic)  reported  to  the  Company  will  be 
considered as important medical events and will be 
reported  to  the  local  authority  and  for  non-EU 
cases to the EMA.  
the 
-  Further  characterise  the  risk  in  a  large  population 
of CAD patients with high risk and at dose up to 10 
mg bid in study CL3-083 (SIGNIFY, N=11330) 
-  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Phosphenes/blurred 
vision 
-  Routine pharmacovigilance 
-  Documentation  of 
the 
long-term 
(3  years) 
ophthalmic  safety  of  ivabradine  (up  to  7.5  mg 
b.i.d.) 
testings 
through  extensive  ophthalmic 
including      electroretinogram  (ERG),  static  and 
kinetic  visual  fields,  colour  vision  test,  distant 
visual  acuity,  tonometry  and  clinical  examination 
(anterior  segment  and  fundi  oculi)  in  a  double-
blind,  randomised,  placebo-controlled  study  in 
patients  with  chronic  stable  angina  pectoris 
(n=300) (Study CL3-067) (Follow-Up Measure)  
-  Information  included  in  the 
the 
sections  of 
following 
SmPC: 4.7, 4.8 
2nd  and  3rd  degree 
Atrioventricular  blocks 
(AVB II and III)  
-  Detection  of  AVB  through  systematic  12-lead  ECG 
recordings and collection of adverse events at each 
scheduled  and  unscheduled  visits  in  all  ongoing  or 
planned interventional clinical studies 
-  Information  included  in  the 
the 
sections  of 
following 
SmPC: 4.3, 4.4, 4.8 
reinforcement 
-  Registration  and  ad  hoc  follow-up  of  spontaneous 
routine 
cases  with 
Pharmacovigilance  procedures  from  prescription 
sources:  all  2nd  or  3rd  degree  AVB  reported  to  the 
Company  will  be  considered  as  important  medical 
events  and  will  be  reported  to  the  local  authority 
and for non-EU cases to the EMA. 
the 
of 
in 
Increase 
pressure 
hypertensive patients 
blood 
in 
- 
Further  characterise  the  risk 
large 
population  of  CAD  patients  with  high  risk  and  at 
dose up to 10 mg bid  in  study CL3-083 (SIGNIFY, 
N=11330) 
in  a 
-  Routine pharmacovigilance 
-  Assessment of systolic and diastolic blood pressure 
through  systematic  measurements  and  collection 
and  precise  documentation  of  adverse  events  at 
each  scheduled  and  unscheduled  visits  in  all 
ongoing or planned interventional clinical studies 
-  Information  included  in  the 
following section of the SmPC: 
4.4, 4.8 
- 
- 
Further  characterise  the  risk 
large 
population of CAD patients at dose up to 10 mg bid 
in study CL3-083 (SIGNIFY, N=11330) 
in  a 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Atrial fibrillation (AF) 
-  Detection  of  atrial  fibrillation  through  systematic 
12-lead  ECG  recordings  and  collection  of  adverse 
events at each scheduled and unscheduled visits in 
interventional  clinical 
all  ongoing  or  planned 
studies 
-  Information  included  in  the 
following section of the SmPC: 
4.4, 4.8 
-  Registration  and  ad  hoc  follow-up  of  spontaneous 
routine 
reinforcement 
cases  with 
the 
of 
42
  
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacovigilance  procedures  from  prescription 
sources:  all  AF  reported  to  the  Company  will  be 
considered as important medical events and will be 
reported  to  the  local  authority  and  for  non-EU 
cases to the EMA. 
-  Further  characterise  the  risk  in  a  large  population 
of CAD patients with high risk and at dose up to 10 
mg bid in study CL3-083 (SIGNIFY, N=11330) 
-  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Potential risks  
Supra-ventricular 
tachyarrhythmia (SVT) 
other than AF 
-  Detection  of  SVT  through  systematic  12-lead  ECG 
recordings and collection of adverse events at each 
scheduled  and  unscheduled  visits  in  all  ongoing  or 
planned interventional clinical studies 
-  Information  included  in  the 
following section of the SmPC: 
4.4 
reinforcement 
-  Registration  and  ad  hoc  follow-up  of  spontaneous 
routine 
cases  with 
Pharmacovigilance  procedures  from  prescription 
sources:  all  SVT  reported  to  the  Company  will  be 
considered as important medical events and will be 
reported  to  the  local  authority  and  for  non-EU 
cases to the EMA. 
the 
of 
-  Further  characterise  the  risk  in  a  large  population 
of CAD patients with high risk and at dose up to 10 
mg bid in study CL3-083 (SIGNIFY, N=11330) 
-  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Immune disorders 
-  Collection of adverse events at each scheduled and 
unscheduled  visits  in  all  ongoing  or  planned 
interventional clinical studies 
-  Information  included  in  the 
following section of the SmPC: 
4.3 
- 
Further  characterise  the  risk 
large 
population of CAD patients at dose up to 10 mg bid 
in study CL3-083 (SIGNIFY, N=11330) 
in  a 
or 
limited 
Missing 
information 
Children and 
adolescents (< 18 
years old) 
Pregnant  and  lactating 
women 
Severe hepatic 
insufficiency 
Severe renal 
impairment 
-  Routine pharmacovigilance 
-  Routine pharmacovigilance 
-  Routine pharmacovigilance 
-  Routine pharmacovigilance 
-  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Chronic heart failure 
patients with intra-
ventricular conduction 
defects 
-  Routine pharmacovigilance 
-  Further  characterise  the  safety  in  patients  with 
intraventricular  conduction  defects  in  the  future 
studies in CHF. 
-  Information  included  in  the 
following section of the SmPC: 
4.1, 4.2,  
-  Information  included  in  the 
following section of the SmPC: 
4.3, 4.6 
-  Information  included  in  the 
following section of the SmPC: 
4.2, 4.3 
-  Information  included  in  the 
following section of the SmPC: 
4.2 
-  Information  included  in  the 
following section of the SmPC: 
4.4 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted,  was  of  the  opinion  that  routine  pharmacovigilance 
was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
No  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  were  required  beyond  those  included  in  the  product 
information. 
2.6.  Changes to the Product Information 
The CHMP agreed to the changes to the Product Information (PI), which are described below: 
Section 4.1 
Therapeutic indications 
“Treatment of coronary artery disease 
43
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris in coronary artery disease adults with normal 
sinus rhythm. Ivabradine is indicated : 
- 
-  or in combination with beta-blockers in patients inadequately controlled with an optimal beta-
  blocker dose and whose heart rate is > 60 bpm. 
in adults unable to tolerate or with a contra-indication to the use of beta-blockers 
Treatment of chronic heart failure 
Ivabradine is indicated in chronic heart failure NYHA II to IV class with systolic dysfunction, in patients 
in  sinus  rhythm  and  whose  heart  rate  is  ≥  75  bpm,  in  combination  with  standard  therapy,  including 
beta-blocker  therapy  or  when  beta-blocker  therapy  is  contraindicated  or  not  tolerated.  (see  section 
5.1).” 
 4.2  Posology and method of administration 
“Treatment of chronic heart failure  
The treatment has to be initiated only in patient with stable heart failure. It is recommended that the 
treating physician should be experienced in the management of chronic heart failure. 
The usual recommended starting dose of ivabradine is 5 mg twice daily. After two weeks of treatment, 
the dose can be increased to 7.5 mg twice daily if resting heart rate is persistently above 60 bpm or 
decreased to 2.5 mg twice daily (one half 5 mg tablet twice daily) if resting heart rate is persistently 
below 50 bpm or in case of symptoms related to bradycardia such as dizziness, fatigue or hypotension. 
If heart rate is between 50 and 60 bpm, the dose of 5 mg twice daily should be maintained.  
If during treatment, heart rate decreases persistently below 50 beats per minute (bpm) at rest or the 
patient experiences symptoms related to bradycardia, the dose must be titrated downward to the next 
lower  dose  in  patients  receiving  7.5  mg  twice  daily  or  5  mg  twice  daily.  If  heart  rate  increases 
persistently above 60 beats per minute at rest, the dose can be up titrated to the next upper dose in 
patients receiving 2.5 mg twice daily or 5 mg twice daily. 
Treatment  must  be  discontinued  if  heart  rate  remains  below  50 bpm  or  symptoms  of  bradycardia 
persist (see section 4.4).” 
“…Special population 
Elderly  
Since ivabradine has been studied in the limited number of In patients aged 75 years or more, a lower 
starting dose should be considered for these patients (2.5 mg twice daily i.e. one half 5 mg tablet twice 
daily) before up-titration if necessary.” 
4.3  Contraindications 
- 
- 
- 
- 
“… 
Unstable or acute heart failure 
Pacemaker dependent (heart rate imposed exclusively by the pacemaker) 
Heart failure patients with NYHA functional classification III-IV” 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
“Special warnings 
Cardiac arrhythmias 
The risk of developing atrial fibrillation may be higher in chronic heart failure patients treated with 
ivabradine. Atrial fibrillation has been more common in patients using concomitantly amiodarone or 
potent class I anti-arrhythmics.  
Chronic heart failure patients with intraventricular conduction defects (bundle branch block left, bundle 
branch block right) and ventricular dyssynchrony should be monitored closely.” 
“Chronic heart failure 
Heart  failure  must  be  appropriately  controlled  before  considering  ivabradine  treatment.  The  use  of 
ivabradine  is  contra-indicated  in  heart  failure  patients  with  NYHA  functional  classification  III-IV  and 
44
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in  heart  failure  patients  with  NYHA  functional  classification  I-II  (see 
section 4.3). Chronic heart failure 
Heart failure must be stable before considering ivabradine treatment. Ivabradine should be used with 
caution in heart failure patients with NYHA functional classification IV due to limited amount of data in 
this population” 
“Hypertensive patients requiring blood pressure treatment modifications. 
In  the  SHIFT  trial  more  patients  experienced  episodes  of  increased  blood  pressure  while treated  with 
ivabradine  (7.1%)  compared  to  patients  treated  with  placebo  (6.1%).  These  episodes  occurred  most 
frequently shortly after blood pressure treatment was modified, were transient, and did not affect the 
treatment effect of ivabradine. When treatment modifications are made in chronic heart failure patients 
treated  with  ivabradine  blood  pressure  should  be  monitored  at  an  appropriate  interval  (see  section 
4.8).” 
4.5  Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
“Other concomitant use 
In  pivotal  phase  III  clinical  trials  the  following  medicinal  products  were  not  restricted  and  therefore 
were  routinely  combined  with ivabradine  with no  evidence  of  safety  concerns:  angiotensin  converting 
enzyme  inhibitors,  angiotensin  II  antagonists,  beta-blockers,  diuretics,  anti-aldosterone  agents,  short 
and  long  acting  nitrates,  HMG  CoA  reductase  inhibitors,  fibrates,  proton  pump  inhibitors,  oral 
antidiabetics, aspirin and other anti-platelet medicinal products.” 
45
 
 
 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
A  specific  study  to  assess  the  possible  influence  of  ivabradine  on  driving  performance  has  been 
performed  in  healthy  volunteers  where  no  alteration  of  the  driving  performance  was  evidenced. 
However, in post-marketing experience, cases of impaired driving ability due to visual symptoms have 
been reported. Ivabradine may cause transient luminous phenomena consisting mainly of phosphenes 
(see section 4.8). The possible occurrence of such luminous phenomena should be taken into account 
when  driving  or  using  machines  in  situations  where  sudden  variations  in  light  intensity  may  occur, 
especially when driving at night.  Ivabradine has no influence on the ability to use machines. 
4.8 Undesirable effects 
 “Approximately  2900  patients  have  been  treated  with  ivabradine  in  phase  II-III  studies. 
IvabradineCorlentor  has  been  studied  in  clinical  trials  involving  nearly  514,000  participants. 
Approximately  2,900  patients  have  been  treated  with  ivabradine  in  phase  II-III  studies.  The  most 
common  adverse  reactions  with  ivabradine,  luminous  phenomena  (phosphenes)  and  bradycardia,  are 
dose dependent and related to the pharmacological effect of the medicinal product. 
…. 
System Organ Class 
Blood  and  lymphatic  system 
disorders 
Frequency 
Uncommon 
Preferred Term 
Eosinophilia 
and 
Metabolism 
disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
nutrition 
Eye disorders 
Uncommon 
Hyperuricaemia 
Common 
Uncommon* 
Very common 
Common 
Headache, generally during the first month 
of treatment 
Dizziness, possibly related to bradycardia 
Syncope, possibly related to bradycardia 
Luminous phenomena (phosphenes) 
Blurred vision 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Uncommon 
Vertigo 
Cardiac disorders 
Common 
Bradycardia 
AV 1st degree block (ECG prolonged PQ 
interval) 
Ventricular extrasystoles 
Palpitations, supraventricular extrasystoles 
Atrial fibrillation  
AV 2nd degree block, AV 3rd degree block  
Sick sinus syndrome 
Uncontrolled blood pressure 
Hypotension, 
bradycardia 
Dyspnoea 
possibly 
related 
to 
Uncommon 
Very rare 
Common 
Uncommon* 
and 
Uncommon 
Vascular disorders 
thoracic 
Respiratory, 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Uncommon 
Nausea 
Skin  and  subcutaneous  tissue 
disorders 
Uncommon* 
Rare* 
Constipation 
Diarrhoea 
Angioedema 
Rash 
Erythema 
46
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Musculoskeletal  and  connective 
tissue disorders 
General 
administration site conditions 
disorders 
and 
Pruritus 
Urticaria 
Uncommon 
Muscle cramps 
Uncommon* 
Asthenia, possibly related to bradycardia 
Fatigue, possibly related to bradycardia 
Rare* 
Malaise, possibly related to bradycardia 
Investigations 
Uncommon 
Elevated creatinine in blood 
*Frequency calculated from clinical trials for adverse events detected from spontaneous report” 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
“Clinical efficacy and safety 
The SHIFT study was a large multicentre, international, randomised double-blind placebo controlled 
outcome trial conducted in 6505 adult patients with stable chronic CHF (for  4 weeks), NYHA class II 
to IV, with a reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF  35%) and a resting heart rate  70 bpm. 
Patients received standard care including beta-blockers (89 %), ACE inhibitors and/or angiotensin II 
antagonists (91 %), diuretics (83 %), and anti-aldosterone agents (60 %). In the ivabradine group, 
67% of patients were treated with 7.5 mg twice a day. The median follow-up duration was 22.9 
months. Treatment with ivabradine was associated with an average reduction in heart rate of 15 bpm 
from a baseline value of 80 bpm. The difference in heart rate between ivabradine and placebo arms 
was 10.8 bpm at 28 days, 9.1 bpm at 12 months and 8.3 bpm at 24 months. 
The study demonstrated a clinically and statistically significant relative risk reduction of 18% in the 
rate of the primary composite endpoint of cardiovascular mortality and hospitalisation for worsening 
heart failure (hazard ratio: 0.82, 95%CI [0.75;0.90] – p<0.0001). apparent within 3 months of 
initiation of treatment. The absolute risk reduction was 4.2%. The results on the primary endpoint are 
mainly driven by the heart failure endpoints, hospitalisation for worsening heart failure (absolute risk 
reduced by 4.7 %) and deaths from heart failure (absolute risk reduced by 1.1 %). 
Treatment effect on the primary composite endpoint, its components and secondary endpoints 
Primary composite endpoint 
Components of the composite: 
- CV death 
- Hospitalisation for worsening HF 
Other secondary endpoints: 
- All cause death 
- Death from HF 
- Hospitalisation for any cause 
- Hospitalisation for CV reason 
Placebo 
(N=3264) 
n (%) 
937 (28.71) 
Hazard ratio 
[95% CI] 
p-value 
0.82 [0.75; 0.90]  <0.0001 
491 (15.04) 
672 (20.59) 
0.91 [0.80; 1.03] 
0.74 [0.66; 0.83] 
0.128 
<0.0001 
552 (16.91) 
151 (4.63) 
1356 (41.54) 
1122 (34.38) 
0.90 [0.80; 1.02] 
0.74 [0.58;0.94] 
0.89 [0.82;0.96] 
0.85 [0.78; 0.92] 
0.092 
0.014 
0.003 
0.0002 
Ivabradine 
(N=3241) 
n (%)  
793 
(24.47) 
449 
(13.85) 
514 
(15.86) 
503 
(15.52) 
113 (3.49) 
1231 
(37.98) 
977 
(30.15) 
The reduction in the primary endpoint was observed consistently irrespective of gender, NYHA class, 
ischaemic or non-ischaemic heart failure aetiology and of background history of diabetes or 
hypertension. 
47
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the subgroup of patients with HR ≥ 75 bpm (n=4150), a greater reduction was observed in the 
primary composite endpoint of 24 % (hazard ratio: 0.76, 95%CI [0.68;0.85] – p<0.0001) and for 
other secondary endpoints, including all cause death (hazard ratio: 0.83, 95%CI [0.72;0.96] – 
p=0.0109) and CV death (hazard ratio: 0.83, 95%CI [0.71;0.97] – p=0.0166). In this subgroup of 
patients, the safety profile of ivabradine is in line with the one of the overall population.  
A  significant  effect  was  observed  on  the  primary  composite  endpoint  in  the  overall  group  of  patients 
receiving  beta  blocker  therapy  (hazard  ratio:  0.82,  95%CI  [0.76;0.94]).  In  the  subgroup  of  patients 
with  HR  ≥  75  bpm  and  on  the  recommended  target  dose  of  beta-blocker,  no  statistically  significant 
benefit was observed on the primary composite endpoint (hazard ratio: 0.97, 95%CI [0.74;1.28]) and 
other  secondary  endpoints,  including  hospitalisation  for  worsening  heart  failure  (hazard  ratio:  0.79, 
95% CI [0.56;1.10]) or death from heart failure (hazard ratio: 0.69, 95% CI [0.31;1.56]). 
There was a significant improvement in NYHA class at last recorded value, 887 (28%) of patients on 
ivabradine improved versus 776 (24%) of patients on placebo (p=0.001).” 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
MAH show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
Ivabradine  is  a  heart  rate  lowering  agent,  acting  by  reducing  the  rate  of  pacemaker  activity  in  the 
sinoatrial  node.  Ivabradine  has  been  registered  for  treating  chronic  stable  angina  pectoris  with 
coronary  artery  disease.  The  MAH  initially  proposed  to  extend  the  indication  to  patients  with  chronic 
heart failure and a heart rate above 70 bpm. This was based on the SHIFT trial including patients with 
stable heart failure NYHA class II to IV and LVEF 35%. The CHMP recommended the approval of the 
extension  of indication  with  modified  wording:  “treatment  in  chronic  heart  failure  NYHA  II  to  IV  class 
with systolic dysfunction, in patients in sinus rhythm and whose heart rate is ≥ 75 bpm, in combination 
with standard therapy, including beta-blocker therapy, or when beta-blocker therapy is contraindicated 
or not tolerated.” 
The  MAH  demonstrated  a  significant  and  clinically  relevant  efficacy  of  ivabradine  versus  placebo  in 
addition to current standard treatment on the chosen composite endpoint of cardiovascular death and 
hospitalization  for  worsening  of  the  heart  failure  (HR  0.82  [95%  CI  0.75-0.90],  p<0.0001)  with  an 
absolute  risk  reduction  of  4.2%  during  a  median  follow-up  duration  of  22.9  months.  A  separation  of 
effect  appeared  within  the  first  6  months.  The  effect  is  driven  by  the  observed  difference  between 
treatment  groups  in  the  ‘hospitalisation  due  to  worsening  of  the  heart  failure’  component  of  the 
composite  endpoint.  Cardiovascular  death  showed  a  numerical  benefit,  but  this  change  did  not  reach 
statistical  significance.  All  other  secondary  endpoints  showed  consistent  statistically  significant 
beneficial  effects  of  ivabradine  compared  to  placebo,  except  for  the  –  most  robust  -  overall  death 
endpoint  where  only  a  numerical  advantage  could  be  shown.  Symptomatic 
improvements 
demonstrated  similar  absolute  effects  as  the  composite  endpoint,  although  the  relevance  of  an 
additional 4% of patients improving one NYHA class, or a similar proportion of physicians and patients 
reporting improved symptomatology appears small.  
The primary endpoint preferred by EMA Guideline on clinical investigation of medicinal products for the 
treatment  of  the  heart  failure  [CPMP/EWP/235/95  Rev.  1]  including  all-cause  mortality  and 
hospitalisation for worsening heart failure, although not defined as primary endpoint, showed a similar 
48
 
 
 
 
 
beneficial  effect  as  the  MAH-defined  primary  endpoint.  The  reported  hazard  ratio  (HR  0.82  (95%  CI 
0.75-0.90),  p<0.0001)  is  exactly  similar,  but  based  on  slightly  higher  absolute  event  rates  in  both 
treatment arms. All primary and secondary analyses, including all-cause mortality as a single endpoint, 
were in the same – beneficial – direction.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
Objective  measurements  to  assess  the  clinical  status  of  the  patients  (such  as  6  min.  walking  test, 
spiroergometry, or regular exercise tolerance test) were not used due to practical reasons (difficulties 
in  a  large  study  population).  NT-Pro-BNP  measurements  were  carried  out  in  a  subpopulation  of  611 
patients with beneficial trends attributable to ivabradine use but not reaching statistical significance. 
Two  study  centres  of  the  SHIFT  study  were  excluded  due  to  GCP  violations.  However,  taking  into 
account also the results from 46 subjects in these centres had no effect on the study outcome. A GCP 
inspection  was  performed  and  concluded  that  the  SHIFT  trial  had  been  performed  in  accordance  with 
the GCP guidance.  
Determining HR  after  5  min  rest  from single ECG  was  not  considered  by  the  CHMP  very reliable.  The 
MAH explained that two ECGs (after 5 min rest) were used for HR determinations. They were obtained 
during  selection  and  inclusion  visits  performed  with  14  days  interval  in  between.  A  24-h  ambulatory 
ECG ancillary analysis was conducted in 602 patients participating in the main study. 524 patients had 
the baseline HR analysable by ambulatory monitoring and from the ECG. Correlation of the results was 
excellent  mean  HR  78.8  ±  11.0  bpm  from  ambulatory  recordings  and  78.3  ±  8.8  bpm  from  12-lead 
ECGs at the inclusion visit.  
Slight problems in blinding were noticed by the CHMP as the patients and physicians could assess the 
HR  affected  by  ivabradine  (a  decrease  by  15  bpm  in  general).  Adjudication  of  the  hard  endpoints  by 
the Endpoint Committee blindly of the treatment or baseline HR was not affected by any investigator 
bias.  Reduced  heart  rates  (up  to  15  bpm)  were  observed  in  16%  to  20%  of  the  placebo  patients 
whereas up to 14% to 18% of the ivabradine patients had a reduction less than 5 bpm. 
Despite the inclusion criteria aiming to include a broad range of symptomatic HF patients, from NYHA 
HF class II to IV, only 111 (1 to 2%) were in NYHA class IV. Observed benefits in these patients were, 
however,  essentially  similar  with  those  in  the  overall  population.  These  findings  were  robust  when 
patients were considered with very low ejection fractions (LVEF<15%, n=124 and LVEF<20%, n=614). 
Although,  adverse  event  rates  were  also  somewhat  higher  in  this  population  of  stable  NYHA  IV  the 
benefit / risk seems not different from that of the NYHA II-III patient population. In NYHA IV, patients 
often have high heart rates to compensate for poor ventricular function, and it is this group that would 
stand  to  benefit  most  from  ivabradine  therapy.  Following  the  results  of  the  SHIFT  study  the  CHMP 
recommended removing from the SmPC the previous general contraindication for patients in NYHA III 
and IV classes. An appropriate warning that only few NYHA IV patients were included in the study was 
mentioned  in  section  4.4  of  the  SmPC.  Patients  in  SHIFT  study  had  to  be  in  stable  clinical  condition 
with  regards  to  CHF  symptoms.  In  line  with  beta  blockers  approved  for  treatment  of  heart  failure, 
patients with unstable or in acute heart failure were added to the list of contraindications.  
Relatively  young  patients  (60±11  years)  were  included  in  the  SHIFT  trial.  Subgroup  analyses  in 
patients  over  65  and  70  years  of  age  showed  some  inconsistent  effects  on  the  primary  endpoint. 
However, when these analyses were limited to patients with baseline HR≥ 75 bpm consistent positive 
effects on the primary (and secondary) endpoints were observed that were irrespective of the age cut-
off chosen. 
Around  10%  of  the  SHIFT-study  population  took  potent  anti-arrhythmics.  188  patients  received 
amiodarone  (class  III)  at  randomisation  and  415  patients  started  amiodarone  during  the  study  (total 
49
 
n=603). 52 patients received either propafenone (n=13, class Ic), mexiletine (n=5, class Ib), quinidine 
(n=4, class Ia), or procainamide (n=2, class Ia). Further 32 patients were at least once administered 
lidocaine (class Ib). In this subpopulation, the incidence of the PCE (primary composite endpoint) was 
36.2%  in  the  ivabradine  group  and  44.0%  in  the  placebo  group,  RR  0.72,  95%  CI  0.56  to  0.93, 
p=0.017. For hospitalisations from heart failure the figures were 21.6% vs. 30.8%, RR 0.60, 95% CI 
0.44  to  0.82,  p=0.0014,  and  for  death  from  heart  failure  8.5%  vs.  13.2%, RR  0.59,  95%  CI  0.36  to 
0.97,  p=0.038.  Atrial  fibrillation  was  more  common  in  this  subpopulation  and  use  of  ivabradine 
increased  it  further.  No  additional  safety  concerns  could  be  observed.  Thus,  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of 
ivabradine  was  considered  by  the  CHMP  favourable  in  patients  taking  amiodarone  or  potent  class  I 
anti-arrhythmics. 
In  SHIFT  a  similar  dosing  scheme  as  included  in  the  SmPC  was  used,  where  patients  were  up-  or 
down-titrated  to  7.5  mg  or  2.5  mg  BID,  respectively  based  on  tolerability  (especially  HR<50  bpm  or 
bradycardia).  Sixty  percent  of  patients  reached  the  maximal  dose,  while  40%  of  patients  ultimately 
reached maintenance doses of 2.5 or 5 mg. Patients reaching 7.5 mg doses had higher baseline heart 
rates  compared  to  the  low  maintenance  dose  patients.  Both  strategies  resulted  in  considerable 
reductions in heart rate (14.9 and 12.6 bpm) resulting in on therapy mean heart rates (last recorded 
HR)  that  remained  lower  in  low  dose  patients  (61.2  bpm)  than  in  high  dose  patients  (68.8  bpm). 
Finally, no difference was observed in effect size for patients on lower maintenance doses, 2.5 or 5 mg, 
versus those on a 7.5 mg dose. These results are in line with the McAllister paper [2009 Ann Int Med] 
that  showed  that  heart  rate  control  may  be  more  relevant  than  achieving  target  beta  blocker  dose. 
These data support the proposed flexible dosing scheme that was introduced in the SmPC.  
Pre  specified  subgroup  analyses  showed  consistent  effects  of  ivabradine.  However,  the  pre  specified 
subgroup  of  patients  with  the  higher  baseline  HR  (≥77  bpm)  showed  the  greatest  benefit  (p  for 
interaction 0.029). This is in line with the proposed MoA, but leads to the question what baseline HR is 
the  most  appropriate  cut-off.  In  the  published  study  of  Böhm  (Lancet  2010)  the  effect  of  ivabradine 
treatment  increases  with  HR,  only  improves  from  a  null  effect  above  a  baseline  HR  of  75.  In  its 
response  document  the  MAH  presented  the  SHIFT  data  for  4150  patients  with  heart  rate  ≥  75  bpm, 
i.e.  65%  of  the  overall  population.  Their  demographic  data  and  baseline  characteristics  did  not  differ 
substantially  from  the  randomized  set  and  did  not  show  relevant  differences  between  the  treatment 
groups.  In  these  patients,  the  effect  of  ivabradine  was  larger  than  in  the  overall  population,  with  a 
significant  improvement  of  all  outcomes.  In  comparison  to  placebo,  the  PCE  was  reduced  by  24% 
(hazard  ratio  0.76,  95%  CI  [0.68;0.85]  p<0.0001),  cardiovascular  death  by  17%  (hazard  ratio  0.83, 
95% CI [0.71;0.97] p= 0.0166), and hospitalization for worsening heart failure by 30% (hazard ratio 
0.70  95%  CI  [0.61;0.80]  p<0.0001).  All  cause  death  was  also  reduced  by  17%  (hazard  ratio  0.83 
95%  CI  [0.72;0.96]  p=0.0109).  In  the  above  described  pre  specified  subgroup  analyses,  but  now 
confined to patients with heart rate ≥ 75 bpm, consistent findings were shown. Based on these results, 
the  company  is  proposing  to  amend  the  indication  to  treatment  of  patients  whose  heart  rate  is  ≥  75 
bpm which is acceptable. 
It is to be noted that in patients with intraventricular conduction defects (LBBB, n=865, RBBB n=177) 
the  efficacy  of  ivabradine  was  reduced  regarding  the  PCE  and  all  secondary  endpoints.  CHF  patients 
with ventricular dyssynchrony may not benefit from reduction of HR.  
Concomitant  use  of  beta-blockers  reduces  the  effect  size,  albeit  that  no  statistical  significant 
interaction was observed in the pre specified subgroup analysis (yes/no beta-blocker use). Efficacy of 
ivabradine  treatment  seems  to  be  inversely  related  to  beta-blocker  dose  used  in  the  SHIFT  trial.  A 
significant  effect  was  observed  on  the  primary  composite  endpoint  in  the  overall  group  of  patients 
receiving  beta  blocker  therapy  (hazard  ratio:  0.82,  95%CI  [0.76;0.94]).  In  the  subgroup  of  patients 
with  HR  ≥  75  bpm  and  on  the  recommended  target  dose  of  beta-blocker,  no  statistically  significant 
benefit was observed on the primary composite endpoint (hazard ratio: 0.97, 95%CI [0.74;1.28]) and 
50
 
other  secondary  endpoints,  including  hospitalisation  for  worsening  heart  failure  (hazard  ratio:  0.79, 
95% CI [0.56;1.10]) or death from heart failure (hazard ratio: 0.69, 95% CI [0.31;1.56]). In addition, 
only  26%  of  patients  were  on  target  dose  and  56% of  patients  received  50%  or  more  of  target  beta 
blocker  dose.  This  may  be  in  line  with  clinical  practice  and  despite  effort  of  SHIFT  investigators  to 
optimize  background  therapy.  The  principal  reason  for  not  achieving  beta-blocker  target  dose  was 
hypotension that was reported as reason for half of the patients not reaching target dose.  
Other  –  sometimes  overlapping  –  reasons  were  recorded  for  not  being  on  target  beta-blockers  dose. 
The  main  reasons  were  also  in  SHIFT:  hypotension,  older  age,  lower  LVEF,  NYHA  III/IV  and  other  
reasons  similar  to  those  reported  in  previous  CHF  trials  and  clinical  practice  surveys.  The  relation 
between a patient’s CYP2D6 status and reaching target beta-bloker dose in an individual patient could 
not be fully established. Genotyping has not been performed, therefore it is unknown whether patients 
were poor metabolisers. The MAH showed that across all beta blockers the ratio of achieved BB dose 
over  target  beta  blocker  dose  was  approximately  0.5.  This  was  irrespective  of  the  role  of  CYP2D6  in 
their metabolism. Taking these observations together it seems unlikely that inhibition – drug induced 
or genetic – of the CYP2D6 iso-enzyme played a major role in patients not reaching target BB dose. 
In the published study of Böhm (Lancet 2010), HR was divided into quintiles to evaluate the relation of 
HR  to  clinical  outcome  in  the  SHIFT  trial.  Beta-blockers  were  prescribed  more  in  the  lowest  quintile 
compared to the highest quintile, ranging from 93% in the lowest quintile (70 to 72 bpm) and 82% in 
the  highest  quintile  (≥87  bpm)  of  patients  [Böhm  2010  Lancet].  Beta-blocker  doses  were  somewhat 
lower  in  the  higher  heart  rate  quintile  groups,  with  hypotension  in  these  groups  more  frequently 
reported as a reason for not reaching target BB dose. 
The  need  to  initiate  a  beta  blocker  or  increase  the  beta  blocker  dose  during  the  study  was  slightly 
higher  in  patients  taking  placebo.  The  reasons  for  such  actions  were  not  elucidated  individually,  but 
they may have to do with optimal HR control. The assumption that increasing the dose of beta blocker 
improves HR control and would cause more benefit for the placebo patients  than ivabradine patients, 
only strengthens the observed benefit of ivabradine in the primary and secondary efficacy outcomes. 
Also  when  patients  used  concomitant  digoxin  (with  or  without  concomitant  beta  blocker  at  any  dose) 
ivabradine  lowered  HR  consistently.  In  these  patients,  however,  the  efficacy  results  seemed  not  as 
favourable  for  ivabradine  as  in  the  entire  randomised  set.  Hospitalisations  for  heart  failure  were 
reduced in a statistically significant fashion. The efficacy of ivabradine on top of beta blocker at target 
dose  and  concomitant  digoxin  was  comparable  to  that  of  placebo.  It  is  a  reassuring  finding,  that 
bradycardia  was  not  more  common  in  patients  taking  both  digoxin  and  ivabradine  (or  even  beta 
blocker  on  top  of  that).  Atrial  fibrillation  was  seen  more  in  the  ivabradine  patients  also  in  these 
subgroup analyses. Since only very few patients were treated concomitantly with target beta-blockers 
dose  and  digoxin,  further  analyses  in  the  new  target  population  with  higher  baseline  HR  are  not 
meaningful.  Individual  approach  to  control  the  HR  of  CHF  patients  can  be  safely  accomplished  using 
ivabradine  on  top  of  routine  digoxin  (and  beta  blocker)  therapy  with  their  different  modalities  of 
pharmacological action. 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
The safety profile shown in this trial does not show many surprises as it is consistent with the safety 
profile already demonstrated in previous trials. The higher incidence of adverse events is limited to the 
typical  adverse  events  associated  with  ivabradine.  The  observed  reduction  in  cardiac  failure  affects, 
however, the presentation of adverse effects in favour of the active treatment. Excluding these adverse 
events,  cardiac  adverse  events  are  slightly  higher  in  the  ivabradine  group  mainly  resulting  from  a 
51
 
higher  incidence  of  atrial  fibrillation  and  bradycardia  adverse  events.  These  are  known  typical  pro-
arrhythmic events associated with ivabradine. Also, second and third degree AV block, and sick sinus 
syndrome were reported at a low rate. Atrial fibrillation was reported more frequently with ivabradine 
(8.3%,  4.9%PY)  than  with  placebo  (6.7%,  4.0%PY)  and  have  also  been  added  in  section  4.8  of  the 
SmPc. These patients tended to be older (mean age 64.3 years), more likely to be in NYHA class III or 
IV and to have a previous history of atrial fibrillation than the overall population. The higher incidence 
of  atrial  fibrillation  was  not  associated  with  increased  risk  of  stroke  or  sudden  death,  or  with  a 
reduction  in  the  efficacy  of  ivabradine.  Nevertheless  the  higher  incidence  in  CHF  versus  angina 
population is  mentioned in  section  4.4  of  the SmPC.  In  the  currently  targeted  population  bradycardia 
led  only  in  a  relatively  few  instances  to  treatment  discontinuation  in  view  of  the  high  heart  rate  at 
baseline,  initially  70  and  now  75  bpm  and  possible  also  due  to  the  flexible  dose  titration  scheme. 
Ventricular  arrhythmias  were  not  observed  more  frequently  in  the  ivabradine  group.  However,  the 
most  serious,  ventricular  fibrillation,  was  numerically  increased,  but  did  not  result  in  more  sudden 
cardiac deaths or sudden deaths. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
In  SHIFT  patients  were  not  specifically  queried  as  whether  they  experienced  the  known  ivabradine 
vision  related  adverse  event  of  phosphenes  and  the  reported  incidence  was  therefore  lower  than  in 
previous trials.  
The  only  unexpected  adverse  event  was  “blood  pressure  inadequately  controlled”;  i.e.  increased  in 
blood pressure in hypertensive patients. This adverse event was more often reported in the ivabradine 
group  (7.1%,  4.2%PY)  than  in  the  placebo  group  (6.1%,  3.6%PY).  These  events  had  also  been 
reported  in  previous  ivabradine  trials,  albeit  at  lower  rates.  The  most  likely  reasons  were  that  a  less 
hemodynamically  stable  and  an  older  population  in  SHIFT  was  recruited  compared  to  previous  trials. 
Events  followed  specifically  when  blood  pressure  medication  had  been  modified  shortly  before  the 
event.  Since,  blood  pressure  increases  were  transient  and  these  patients  benefitted  equally  from 
treatment with ivabradine this issue was included in the warning and undesirable effect sections of the 
SmPC and added as an identified risk in the RMP. 
For the subgroup of patients with very low cardiac output / NYHA IV class heart failure safety data do 
not  show  an  essentially  different  profile  as  for  the  safety  of  the  overall  population,  although  adverse 
events  occurred  in  general  more  than  in  the  overall  population  in  both  the  ivabradine  as  well  as  the 
placebo  group.  However,  this  is  still  based  on  a  limited  subgroup  and  therefore  caution  is  still 
warranted which is reflected in the SmPC. 
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
A  beneficial  effect  for  ivabradine  has  been  demonstrated  in  patients  with  heart  failure,  low  LVEF  and 
high  heart  rate.  An  appropriate  heart  rate  cut  off  at  baseline  has  been  identified  as  ≥  75  bpm,  that 
leads to a positive benefit/risk across all pre specified subgroups. The treatment effect is attenuated in 
patients on target beta-blocker dose, but clinically relevant changes have been observed on secondary 
endpoints in patients with heart rates ≥75 bpm.  
4.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends, the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following change: 
52
 
 
Variation(s) requested 
Type 
C.I.6.a 
Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition of a new 
II 
therapeutic indication or modification of an approved one 
Extension  of  indication  to  add  the  treatment  in  chronic  heart  failure  NYHA  II  to  IV  class  with  systolic 
dysfunction,  in  patients  in  sinus  rhythm  and  whose  heart  rate  is  ≥   75  bpm,  in  combination  with 
standard  therapy,  including  beta-blocker  therapy,  or  when  beta-blockers  are  contraindicated  or  not 
tolerated.  The  MAH  proposed  the  update  of  sections  4.1,  4.2,  4.3,  4.4,  4.5,  4.7,  4.8  and  5.1  of  the 
SmPC  in  order  to  extend  the  indication  and  to  introduce  new  information  following  the  results  of  the 
SHIFT study. The Package Leaflet was proposed to be updated in accordance. 
In addition it was proposed to delete version of the RMP from Annex IIB. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the SmPC, Annex II and Package Leaflet. 
Conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Risk management system 
The  MAH  must  ensure  that  the  system  of  pharmacovigilance,  presented  in  Module  1.8.1  of  the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
The  MAH  shall  perform  the  pharmacovigilance  activities  detailed  in  the  Pharmacovigilance  Plan,  as 
agreed in the Risk Management Plan (RMP) presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the CHMP. 
As  per  the  CHMP  Guideline  on  Risk  Management  Systems  for  medicinal  products  for  human  use,  the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
  When new information is received that may impact on the current Safety Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached  
  at the request of the EMA 
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow a half-yearly cycle until otherwise agreed by the CHMP.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable.  
53
 
 
 
 
 
