21 November 2013 
EMA/698375/2013  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Corlentor 
International non-proprietary name: ivabradine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000598/II/0028 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Requested Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Les Laboratoires Servier submitted 
to the European Medicines Agency on 14 August 2013 an application for a variation. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary 
Presentations: 
Corlentor 
name: 
ivabradine 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation requested 
See Annex A 
Type 
C.I.3.b 
C.I.3.b - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL intended to implement 
II 
the outcome of a procedure concerning PSUR or PASS or the outcome 
of the assessment done under A 45/46 - Change(s) with new 
additional data submitted by the MAH 
The MAH proposed the update of sections 4.3 and 4.6 of the SmPC in order to extend the current 
contra-indication during pregnancy and breastfeeding to women of child-bearing potential not using 
appropriate contraceptive measures. In addition, the description of the luminous phenomena 
(phosphenes) and vision blurred were added to section 4.8 of the SmPC according to information from 
post-marketing experience and “diplopia” and “visual impairment” were included as undesirable effects 
in section 4.8 of the SmPC. The changes described above were requested following recommendations 
from the PRAC Assessment Report for PSUR No 8. The Package Leaflet was proposed to be updated 
accordingly. 
Furthermore, the MAH proposed this opportunity to bring the PI in line with the latest QRD template 
version 9.3.  
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics, Annex II and 
Package Leaflet. 
Rapporteur: 
Pieter de Graeff 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
14 August 2013 
22 September 2013 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report 
24 October 2013 
circulated on: 
Rapporteur’s updated assessment report 
15 November 2013 
circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
Assessment report  
EMA/698375/2013 
21 November 2013 
Page 2/11 
 
 
 
 
  
  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Procoralan / Corlentor, containing ivabradine hydrochloride, is a pure heart rate lowering agent, acting by 
selective and specific inhibition of the cardiac pacemaker I f current that controls the spontaneous diastolic 
depolarisation in the sinus node and regulates heart rate. The cardiac effects are specific to the sinus 
node with no effect on intra-atrial, atrioventricular or intraventricular conduction times, nor on myocardial 
contractility or ventricular repolarisation.  
Ivabradine is approved for: 
−  Treatment of coronary artery disease  
−  Symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris in coronary artery disease adults with 
normal sinus rhythm.  
Ivabradine is indicated:  
• 
in adults unable to tolerate or with a contra-indication to the use of beta-blockers  
•  or in combination with beta-blockers in patients inadequately controlled with an optimal 
beta- blocker dose and whose heart rate is > 60 bpm.  
−  Treatment of chronic heart failure: Ivabradine is indicated in chronic heart failure NYHA II to IV 
class with systolic dysfunction, in patients in sinus rhythm and whose heart rate is ≥ 75 bpm, 
in combination with standard therapy including beta-blocker therapy or when beta-blocker 
therapy is contraindicated or not tolerated. 
The product is registered through the Centralised Procedure since 25 October 2005.  
Based on the assessment report of the PSUR No 8 for Corlentor/Procoralan with a DLP 25 October 2012, 
the PRAC recommended that the MAH should submit the following variation in accordance with Articles 16 
and 17 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 or provide a justification for not doing so within 2 months: 
− 
regarding the use of ivabradine during pregnancy and lactation based on the corresponding cases 
both from post-marketing sources and from the SHIFT-trial; 
−  update of section 4.8 of the SmPC regarding visual impairment and diplopia. Visual impairment and 
diplopia might be linked with the listed events of phosphenes/photopsia and vision blurred in some 
cases. However, in the majority of the cases the events were reported separately and without 
reference to the listed terms. Due to high number of reported cases, and presence of dechallange and 
rechallanges cases, it is more appropriate to include visual impairment and diplopia in section 4.8 as 
separate ADRs. The MAH should include proposed frequencies for these ADRs in accordance with the 
SmPC guideline. 
Current variation was submitted to extend the contra-indication during pregnancy and breastfeeding 
(present already in the SmPC since the Marketing Authorisation) to women of child-bearing potential not 
using appropriate contraceptive measures as ivabradine was associated with cardiac teratogenicity in rats 
and ectrodactylia in rabbits, and to improve prescribers’ awareness, by extending the description of the 
luminous phenomena (phosphenes) and vision blurred in the SmPC according to information from post-
marketing experience and adding “diplopia” and “visual impairment” as undesirable effects in section 4.8 
further to PRAC recommendation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/698375/2013 
Page 3/11 
  
  
2.2.  Clinical Safety aspects 
2.2.1 Women of childbearing potential not using appropriate contraceptive 
measure  
In the PSUR n°8 for ivabradine, covering the period 25.10.2009 to 25.10.2012, it was recommended to 
reflect on the need of the Product Information update with regards to a statement regarding women of 
childbearing potential, to extend the contraindications during pregnancy and breastfeeding (present in the 
SmPC since the Marketing Authorisation) to women of childbearing potential not using appropriate 
contraceptive measure, as ivabradine was associated with cardiac teratogenicity in rats and ectrodactylia 
in rabbits. 
Since the initial registration, the SmPC of ivabradine states that the use of ivabradine is contraindicated 
during pregnancy and breastfeeding as pre-clinical investigations revealed that, pregnant animals, 
treated with ivabradine during organogenesis at exposures close to therapeutic doses, showed a higher 
incidence of foetuses with cardiac defects in the rat and a small number of foetuses with ectrodactylia in 
the rabbit. During the period covered by PSUR n°8, cases of pregnancy (including cases from the SHIFT 
study) in patients treated with ivabradine were reviewed. The therapeutic indications of ivabradine are 
unlikely to concern women of child-bearing potential; however, to reinforce the contraindications during 
pregnancy and breastfeeding present in the SmPC since the Marketing Authorisation, it was proposed to 
discuss the need for the update of a statement regarding women of childbearing potential. 
Clinical trial cases  
Overall, 5 cases of study drug exposure during pregnancy were reported in clinical trials. Two cases were 
reported in healthy volunteers included in phase 1 studies (1 day exposure) while the remaining 3 cases 
occurred in the SHIFT study (CL3-16257-063) conducted in patients with chronic heart failure. Following 
unblinding, this cases distributed in 1 case exposed to ivabradine and 2 exposed to placebo. 
Cumulative data of exposure to ivabradine or placebo and outcomes are presented in the following tables. 
Table 1 - Cumulative data of exposure to ivabradine during pregnancy over cumulative period from clinical 
trials 
Table 2 - Cumulative data of exposure to placebo during pregnancy over cumulative period from clinical 
Trials 
Assessment report  
EMA/698375/2013 
Page 4/11 
 
 
  
  
Post-marketing experience 
Since marketing authorisation until 25 April 2013 (data lock point (DLP) of PSUR n°9, submitted on July 
3rd 2013), a total of 15 cases of patients exposed to ivabradine during pregnancy were reported from 
post-marketing experience. These patients were treated with ivabradine for tachycardia (9/15) or 
ischaemic cardiopathy (2/15), vasovagal syncope (1/15), the indication being unknown in the remaining 
cases (3/15). Cumulative data of pregnancies and outcomes are presented in the following table. 
Table 3 - Cumulative data of exposure to ivabradine during pregnancy from post-marketing experience 
* According to follow-up information received post-DLP: caesarean section was indicated at the 36th week post-
LMP (34th week of pregnancy) due to foetal growth stop. Birth weight 2120 g; No malformation; Apgar 9-10; No 
medical problem at the maternity reported 
Assessment report  
EMA/698375/2013 
Page 5/11 
 
 
 
 
  
  
** Delivery was induced due to harmonious in utero Foetal growth retardation (37.7 weeks of amenorrhea, 
2510g, height 46cm and cranial perimeter 30.5cm).Investigations were negative for CMV. Mother with aortic 
valvular insufficiency, Marfan's syndrome since 30-APR-1978, pulmonary embolism in 1988, recurrent 
pneumothorax in 2005 (resulting in lung lobectomia) and smoking along her pregnancy (quantity not specified). 
Metoprololol was continued during the whole duration of the pregnancy. Other treatments taken during the 
pregnancy included: Aspirin cardio, enoxaparin sodium, pantoprazole. 
Following this cumulative review of pregnancy cases in patients treated with ivabradine, including cases 
from the SHIFT study, the MAH proposed, in order to reinforce this restriction, to add, in section 4.3 of 
the SmPC, a contraindication to the use of ivabradine in “women of child-bearing potential not using 
appropriate contraceptive measures”. 
The MAH also proposes to add, in section 4.6 of the SmPC, the corresponding following statement: 
“Women of childbearing potential 
Women of child-bearing potential should use appropriate contraceptive measures during 
treatment (see section 4.3).” 
The CHMP noted that the MAH provided a cumulative review of pregnancy cases in patients treated with 
ivabradine, including cases from the SHIFT study. Based on this review the MAH proposes to include 
women of child-bearing potential not using appropriate contraceptive measures in the contra-indication 
“pregnancy and lactation”. The CHMP agreed with this proposal. 
In addition the MAH has formulated a contraindication for breast-feeding. This was also considered 
acceptable. However, the CHMP proposed to add:  
“Women that need treatment with ivabradine should stop breast-feeding, and choose for 
another way of feeding their child.” 
2.2.2 Visual impairment and diplopia  
The MAH agreed to include visual impairment and diplopia in section 4.8 as separate ADRs and to 
calculate frequencies as advised. 
Based on the ”Guideline on Summary of Product Characteristics”, rev. 2 dated September 2009, the MAH 
estimated adverse reactions frequencies of “Diplopia” and “visual impairment”, corresponding to the 
MedDRA Preferred Term (PT) “Diplopia” and “Visual impairment” or “Visual disturbance” respectively (the 
PT ”Visual impairment” did not exist in the MedDRA dictionary version in force of that of study 057 and 
063), in patients treated with ivabradine was estimated in 3 different sets : 
− 
− 
− 
the Integrated Analysis of Safety (IAS): data used to calculate frequency of adverse events for the 
initial version of ivabradine SmPC (data pooled on 5 mg and 7.5 mg doses); 
the study CL3-057 (study which supported the extension of indication of ivabradine in combination 
with beta-blockers in angina patients). 
the study CL3-063 (study which supported the extension of indication of ivabradine in Chronic Heart 
Failure). 
For these last two studies, it has to be noted that the PT ”visual impairment” did not exist in the MedDRA 
dictionary version in force at time of study 057 and 063: the PT “visual disturbance” was used instead. 
Moreover, in line with the guideline, in case of different frequencies observed between sets, “the highest 
frequency” was chosen. 
Assessment report  
EMA/698375/2013 
Page 6/11 
  
  
The  frequencies  of  the  emergent  adverse  events  (EAEs)  “Diplopia”  and  “Visual  impairment”  observed  in 
the 3 sets of patients are summarised in the table below: 
Additionally, in the post-marketing experience, the majority of the suspected adverse reactions involving 
visual manifestations were luminous phenomena and vision blurred. These reports, while presenting 
similar features as those reported during clinical trials, provide detailed descriptions of the various 
presentation of the luminous phenomena or vision blurred experienced by the patients, beyond the 
current description given in the SmPC: spot lines, bright lines, coloured effects, shadowing effect (halo, 
multiples images, ghost images) or stroboscopic or kaleidoscopic effect (image decomposition) also 
reported sometimes as feeling of increased sensibility to the light. 
Therefore, in order to improve prescriber’s awareness, the MAH proposed to extend the description of the 
luminous phenomena (phosphenes) in the section 4.8 of SmPC to reflect visual symptoms description 
arising from post-marketing experience as follows: 
‘Description of selected adverse reactions 
Luminous phenomena (phosphenes) were reported by 14.5% of patients, described as a transient 
enhanced brightness in a limited area of the visual field. They are usually triggered by sudden 
variations in light intensity. Phosphenes may also be described as a halo, image 
decomposition (stroboscopic or kaleidoscopic effects), coloured bright lights, or 
multiple image (retinal persistency). The onset of phosphenes is generally within the first two 
months of treatment after which they may occur repeatedly. Phosphenes were generally reported 
to be of mild to moderate intensity. All phosphenes resolved during or after treatment, of which a 
majority (77.5%) resolved during treatment. Fewer than 1% of patients changed their daily 
routine or discontinued the treatment in relation with phosphenes’. 
The PIL was proposed to be updated accordingly to improve patient’s awareness. Moreover, the MAH also 
took the opportunity to add in the PIL a patient’s friendly term for vision blurred: i.e. ‘cloudy vision’. 
The CHMP commented that the MAH included visual impairment and diplopia in section 4.8 as separate 
ADRs and calculated frequencies. However, the MAH did not assign a frequency category to the ADR 
‘visual impairment’. For adverse reactions that have never been observed in clinical trials, the SmPC 
Guideline states that then the upper limit of the 95% confidence interval is not higher than 3/X, with X 
representing the total sample size summed up across all relevant clinical trials and studies (e.g. those 
with a follow-up long enough to detect the adverse reaction). In this case, visual impairment has not 
been observed among 1,605+449+3,232 (=5,826) subjects exposed to the product in clinical trials and 
studies, then the upper limit of the 95% confidence interval for the point estimate is 1/1,762 or less and 
the frequency category should be "rare", based on worst value of the point estimate. Therefore, the MAH 
Assessment report  
EMA/698375/2013 
Page 7/11 
 
  
  
was requested to assign the frequency ‘rare’ to the ADR ‘visual impairment’. The additional sentence to 
further describe the manifestation of phosphenes was accepted by the CHMP.  
In response, the MAH explained that the frequency of both undesirable effects “diplopia” and “visual 
impairment” was estimated, according to the “Guideline on Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC)”, 
rev. 2 dated September 2009, based on data from “each adequately designed study where this adverse 
reaction could have been detected”. Based on these data, the frequency “uncommon” has been assigned 
to the 2 undesirable effects proposed to be added, i.e. “diplopia” and “visual impairment”.  
The MAH emphasized as well that, regarding “visual impairment”, the specific Preferred Term (PT) “visual 
impairment” did not exist in the MedDRA dictionary version in force at time of clinical studies ASSOCIATE 
(057) and SHIFT (063) (clinical studies that have led to the extensions of indication of ivabradine). 
Therefore another Preferred Term, namely “visual disturbance” was used to assign frequency of “visual 
impairment”. Based on the above elements, it is proposed to maintain the frequency “uncommon” for the 
2 undesirable effects proposed to be added, i.e. “diplopia” and “visual impairment”. The argumentation of 
the MAH was supported by the CHMP. 
2.3.  Changes to the Product Information 
The MAH proposed the following changes to the Product Information (PI) (displayed in bold 
underlined): 
4.3 Contraindications 
-  Pregnancy, lactation and women of child-bearing potential not using appropriate 
contraceptive measures (see section 4.6) 
4.6 Fertility, Pregnancy and Lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of child-bearing potential should use appropriate contraceptive measures 
during treatment (see section 4.3). 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of ivabradine in pregnant women.  
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity. These studies have shown embryotoxic and 
teratogenic effects (see section 5.3). The potential risk for humans is unknown. Therefore, 
ivabradine is contra-indicated during pregnancy (see section 4.3). 
Breastfeeding 
Animal studies indicate that ivabradine is excreted in milk. Therefore, ivabradine is contra-
indicated during breast-feeding (see section 4.3). 
Fertility 
Studies in rats have shown no effect on fertility in males and females (see section 5.3). 
The CHMP agreed that the contraindication in pregnancy is extended to women of child-bearing potential 
not using appropriate contraceptive measures. This was agreed by the CHMP. In addition the MAH has 
Assessment report  
EMA/698375/2013 
Page 8/11 
 
 
  
  
formulated a contraindication for breast-feeding. This was also considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
However, the CHMP proposed to modify the sentence in the following way: 
“Women that need treatment with ivabradine should stop breast-feeding, and choose for 
another way of feeding their child.” 
This was accepted by the MAH.  
4.8 Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Ivabradine has been studied in clinical trials involving nearly 14,000 participants. 
The most common adverse reactions with ivabradine, luminous phenomena (phosphenes) and 
bradycardia, are dose dependent and related to the pharmacological effect of the medicinal 
product. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following adverse reactions have been reported during clinical trials and are ranked using the following 
frequency: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare 
(≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Frequency 
Uncommon 
Preferred Term 
Eosinophilia 
Uncommon 
Hyperuricaemia 
lymphatic  system 
System Organ Class 
Blood  and 
disorders 
Metabolism 
disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
and 
nutrition 
Eye disorders 
Common 
Uncommon* 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon* 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Uncommon 
Common 
Vascular disorders 
Uncommon 
Very rare 
Common 
Uncommon* 
thoracic 
Respiratory, 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
and 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Headache,  generally  during  the  first  month 
of treatment 
Dizziness, possibly related to bradycardia 
Syncope, possibly related to bradycardia 
Luminous phenomena (phosphenes) 
Blurred vision 
Diplopia 
Visual impairment 
Vertigo 
Bradycardia 
AV  1st  degree  block  (ECG  prolonged  PQ 
interval) 
Ventricular extrasystoles 
Palpitations, supraventricular extrasystoles 
Atrial fibrillation 
AV 2nd degree block, AV 3rd degree block 
Sick sinus syndrome 
Uncontrolled blood pressure 
Hypotension, 
bradycardia 
Dyspnoea 
possibly 
related 
to 
Nausea 
Constipation 
Diarrhoea 
Assessment report  
EMA/698375/2013 
Page 9/11 
 
 
  
  
Skin  and  subcutaneous  tissue 
disorders 
Uncommon* 
Rare* 
Uncommon 
Angioedema 
Rash 
Erythema 
Pruritus 
Urticaria 
Muscle cramps 
Musculoskeletal  and  connective 
tissue disorders 
General 
administration site conditions 
disorders 
and 
Uncommon* 
Asthenia, possibly related to bradycardia 
Fatigue, possibly related to bradycardia 
Rare* 
Malaise, possibly related to bradycardia 
Investigations 
Uncommon 
Elevated creatinine in blood 
ECG prolonged QT interval 
* Frequency calculated from clinical trials for adverse events detected from spontaneous report 
Description of selected adverse reactions  
Luminous phenomena (phosphenes) were reported by 14.5% of patients, described as a transient 
enhanced brightness in a limited area of the visual field. They are usually triggered by sudden 
variations in light intensity. Phosphenes may also be described as a halo, image 
decomposition (stroboscopic or kaleidoscopic effects), coloured bright lights, or 
multiple image (retinal persistency). The onset of phosphenes is generally within the first two 
months of treatment after which they may occur repeatedly. Phosphenes were generally reported 
to be of mild to moderate intensity. All phosphenes resolved during or after treatment, of which a 
majority (77.5%) resolved during treatment. Fewer than 1% of patients changed their daily 
routine or discontinued the treatment in relation with phosphenes.  
Bradycardia was reported by 3.3% of patients particularly within the first 2 to 3 months of 
treatment initiation. 0.5% of patients experienced a severe bradycardia below or equal to 40 
bpm. 
Consequential changes to the PIL were considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
3.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
The CHMP believes that the amendments to sections 4.3, 4.6 and 4.8 of the SmPC do not change the 
benefit/risk balance of ivabradine that remains positive.  
4.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following change: 
Variation requested 
Type 
C.I.3.b 
C.I.3.b - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL intended to implement 
II 
the outcome of a procedure concerning PSUR or PASS or the outcome 
of the assessment done under A 45/46 - Change(s) with new 
additional data submitted by the MAH 
Assessment report  
EMA/698375/2013 
Page 10/11 
 
 
 
  
  
Update of sections 4.3 and 4.6 of the SmPC in order to extend the current contra-indication during 
pregnancy and breastfeeding to women of child-bearing potential not using appropriate contraceptive 
measures. In addition, the description of the luminous phenomena (phosphenes) and vision blurred 
were added to section 4.8 of the SmPC according to information from post-marketing experience and 
“diplopia” and “visual impairment” were included as undesirable effects in section 4.8 of the SmPC. The 
changes described above were requested following recommendations from the PRAC Assessment Report 
for PSUR No 8. The Package leaflet was updated accordingly. Furthermore, the PI was brought in line 
with the latest QRD template version 9.3. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics, Annex II and 
Package Leaflet. 
Assessment report  
EMA/698375/2013 
Page 11/11 
  
  
  
