Annex IV 
Scientific conclusions 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
1 - PRAC recommendation 
Background information 
Ivabradine is a heart rate lowering agent with specific effect on the sinus node with no effects on 
intra-atrial, atrioventricular or intraventricular conduction times, myocardial contractility or 
ventricular repolarisation. 
Procoralan and Corlentor (both containing ivabradine) were granted a marketing authorisation in 
October 2005 for the indication “symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris in 
patients with normal sinus rhythm, who have a contraindication or intolerance for beta-blockers”.  
On the basis of efficacy and safety data from studies that became available after the initial 
marketing authorisation including the BEAUTIFUL1 study, the indication was extended in October 
2009 to include combination with beta-blockers in patients whose angina is inadequately controlled 
with an optimal beta-blocker dose and whose heart rate is >60 bpm. In angina, the usual 
recommended starting dose of ivabradine is 5 mg twice daily (b.i.d.). After three to four weeks of 
treatment, the dose may be increased to 7.5 mg twice daily depending on the therapeutic 
response.  
In February 2012, ivabradine was approved for the treatment of heart failure in the European 
Union based on the results of the SHIFT2 study. This indication concerns use in chronic heart failure 
New York Heart Association (NYHA) class II to IV with systolic dysfunction, in patients in sinus 
rhythm with heart rate ≥75 bpm, in combination with standard therapy including beta-blocker 
therapy or when beta-blocker therapy is contraindicated or not tolerated.  
On 30 April 2014, the EMA received from the MAH a communication on the preliminary results of 
the SIGNIFY3 study. The SIGNIFY is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, 
placebo-controlled, event-driven study which was designed to test the hypothesis that heart rate 
lowering with ivabradine reduces cardiovascular (CV) event rates in patients with stable coronary 
artery disease (CAD). This study used doses of ivabradine higher than the currently recommended 
in the product information (starting dose in SIGNIFY: 7.5 mg twice daily [5 mg twice daily if 
age>75 years], that could be increased up to 10 mg twice daily). 
In the whole population (n=19102), ivabradine did not significantly affect the primary composite 
endpoint (PCE) or its individual components (CV death and non-fatal myocardial infarction). 
However, in the pre-specified subgroup of symptomatic angina patients (n=12049), a statistically 
significant increase in PCE was observed (HR=1.18; 95%CI [1.03-1.35]). Although not reaching 
statistical significance, similar trends were observed for the individual components of CV death and 
non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI). These findings appear contradictory with findings from 
previous ivabradine studies in patients with CAD. 
Given that the subgroup of symptomatic angina patients may correspond to the population of 
patients for whom one of the therapeutic indications for ivabradine is currently approved, the 
European Commission initiated on 8 May 2014 a procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 
726/2004 and requested the Agency to assess the above concerns and their impact on the benefit-
1   MorBidity-mortality EvAlUaTion of the If inhibitor ivabradine in patients with coronary disease and left 
ventricULar dysfunction. 
2   Systolic Heart failure treatment with the If inhibitor ivabradine Trial. 
3   Study assessInG the morbi-mortality beNefits of the If inhibitor ivabradine in patients with coronary arterY 
disease. 
49 
                                                      
risk balance of the centrally authorised medicinal products Procoralan and Corlentor. The European 
Commission requested the Agency to give its opinion on whether the marketing authorisation for 
these products should be maintained, varied, suspended or withdrawn. 
Scientific discussion 
The results of the SIGNIFY study were published4 while this review was ongoing and are discussed 
below.  
There was no significant difference in the incidence of the primary endpoint between the ivabradine 
group and the placebo group (6.8% and 6.4%, respectively; HR=1.08, 95% CI [0.96 -1.20]; 
p=0.2). There were also no significant differences between the two groups in the incidences of the 
components of the primary composite endpoint (death from CV causes and nonfatal MI). No 
significant differences were also observed in any of the secondary endpoints. 
Several pre-specified subgroup analyses were performed and the only significant interaction 
identified was in the incidence of the primary composite endpoint in the angina Canadian 
Cardiovascular Society (CCS) class ≥ II patients. 
The safety profile was dominated by adverse reactions already described for the product, notably 
all forms of bradycardia (17.9% ivabradine vs 2.1% placebo) and phosphenes (5.3% ivabradine vs 
0.5% placebo). Atrial fibrillation (AF) occurred in 5.3% of patients on ivabradine vs. 3.8% of 
patients on placebo. 
Ivabradine, a specific heart rate lowering agent, has demonstrated symptomatic improvement of 
angina symptoms in patients with stable CAD. A large study in patients with CAD and left 
ventricular dysfunction (BEAUTIFUL study) could not demonstrate a benefit in terms of CV 
outcome. The SIGNIFY study  in patients with CAD without clinical heart failure using doses higher 
than currently approved also showed no benefit in terms of CV outcome, but demonstrated a small 
significant increased risk on CV outcome for patients with symptomatic angina in a pre-specified 
analysis. As the absolute risk is based on 69 events, the possibilities for further analysis to identify 
the contributing risk factors are limited. 
Although it does not fully explain the findings, a contributor to the increased risk of CV events 
appears to be the high starting dose and maximum dose used in the SIGNIFY study, exceeding the 
currently approved maximum dose. In patients titrated to the maximum 10 mg b.i.d. dose in the 
SIGNIFY study (higher than the current approved 7.5 mg b.i.d.), most endpoints occurred while on 
the highest dose. Patients exposed to the 10 mg dose seemed to be at increased risk of a CV 
endpoint in comparison to patients not exposed to the 10 mg dose based on a time model 
evaluation. In addition, the higher dose of 10 mg could clarify the higher incidence of bradycardia 
during the SIGNIFY study in comparison to other large studies with ivabradine, BEAUTIFUL and 
SHIFT. Patients exposed to 10 mg dose versus not exposed to 10 mg showed a higher risk for 
bradycardia (E=2.54 [1.54-4.82]), observation supported by data from two small parallel studies 
also using the 10 mg dose. This highlights the need to comply with the currently authorized 
posology.  
Although baseline heart rate ≥ 70 bpm was an inclusion criteria in the SIGNIFY study, data from 
BEAUTIFUL study indicate a significant p-value for interaction for the primary composite endpoint 
when patient are divided around the 70 bpm cut-off level, although a significant beneficial effect 
was only observed for the MI endpoint in the heart rate ≥70 subgroup. Applying such a cut-off 
based on data from the BEAUTIFUL study is a reasonable measure to exclude patients who are 
likely to be at higher risk.  
4   Fox K, et al, Ivabradine in stable coronary artery disease without clinical failure. N Engl J Med 
2014;371:1091-9.  
50 
                                                      
Concomitant use of diltiazem/verapamil (which also have an additional heart rate lowering effect) 
and strong CYP3A4 inhibitors have also shown to increase the incidence of bradycardia events and 
the risk of MI. Concomitant treatment is currently not recommended but this should be 
strengthened to a contraindication to minimize the risk of clinically relevant interactions. 
The increased incidence of bradycardia in relation to the increased observed CV risk while on 
treatment with the higher initial dose and maximum dose (as in the SIGNIFY study), or 
concomitant diltiazem/verapamil or strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, indicates that the heart rate should 
not be extensively reduced. This is further supported by some of the data indicating that a heart 
rate <50 bpm is associated with a trend toward a higher CV risk. Therefore it is justified that 
ivabradine is discontinued or down titrated if the heart rate falls under 50 bpm. As a precaution, 
up-titration should only occur if the initial dose is well tolerated and the resting heart rate remains 
above 60 bpm. 
Other factors could not be directly related to a higher CV risk. 
The frequency of atrium fibrillation (AF) was higher than currently described in the product 
information. However, AF was not related to the higher outcome risk as patients with AF in relation 
to the proportion of patients with a subsequent endpoint was similar for ivabradine as for the 
placebo patients. Nevertheless information monitoring of patients for AF needs to be reinforced. 
In another clinical study evaluating the impact of grapefruit juice on ivabradine pharmacokinetics, 
an intake of 600 ml given as 200 ml three times a day for 3 days a moderate interaction level was 
observed with a 2.3-fold increase in ivabradine exposure. Given the importance of ensuring that 
patient are not exposed to higher than recommended dose of ivabradine, the currently existing 
warning on concomitant intake of grapefruit juice should be strengthened to avoid a potential 
pharmacokinetic interaction.  
The beneficial effect of symptomatic improvement of angina is considered of clinical relevance. 
However the results of SIGNIFY highlight the need to make it explicit in the product information 
that ivabradine use in CAD patients has no benefits on CV outcomes and it will only have an effect 
on symptoms of angina pectoris.  
In addition to CAD, ivabradine is currently also indicated for treatment of chronic heart failure on 
the basis of results from the previous SHIFT study. The potential impact of the SIGNIFY results in 
the heart failure indication was considered, but the two populations are substantially different in 
terms of underlying cardiac function and presence or absence of clinical heart failure. Also a lower 
dose and different titration method was used in the SHIFT study when compared to the SIGNIFY 
study. None of the factors identified in the SIGNIFY study had an impact on the beneficial effect of 
ivabradine observed in the SHIFT study. Therefore it is considered that overall, the results of the 
SIGNIFY study do not impact on the heart failure indication.  
The MAH will conduct a drug utilisation study to describe the characteristics of users of ivabradine, 
as well as describing the patterns of use of ivabradine and adherence to the risk minimisation 
measures. This will be a multinational retrospective cohort study that will collect data from medical 
record abstraction (chart review) for patients with chronic stable angina pectoris initiating 
treatment with ivabradine in routine clinical practice in selected European countries. The MAH is 
requested to submit within the agreed timelines, the final study protocol of the drug utilisation 
study. Due to the fact that the higher than approved dose used in the SIGNIFY study did not fully 
explain the findings of the study, it was considered key to benefit-risk balance to assess the 
effectiveness of the new risk minimisation measures and therefore this drug utilisation study is 
imposed as a condition to the marketing authorisation.
51 
Risk minimisation measures 
The Product Information for Corlentor and Procoralan was revised to include the following: 
•  In symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris, treatment should only be 
initiated in patients with HR ≥ 70 bpm. Treatment should be discontinued if the symptoms 
of angina do not improve within 3 months. 
•  Reinforcement of the recommendation not to exceed the authorised posology. 
•  Concomitant treatment with moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors with heart rate reducing properties 
such as diltiazem or verapamil is now contraindicated. 
•  Warnings added on measurement of heart rate, lack of benefit on clinical outcomes, and 
atrial fibrillation. 
•  Concomitant use of grapefruit juice is now not recommended due to the potential for a 
pharmacokinetic interaction resulting in increased exposure to ivabradine. 
An additional risk minimisation activity was required by the PRAC. The MAH shall distribute a Direct 
Healthcare Professional Communication (DHPC) to inform prescribers of the amendments to the 
product information.  
Furthermore a drug utilisation study shall be performed to describe the characteristics of users of 
ivabradine, patterns of use and assess adherence to the risk minimisation measures. 
Overall conclusion 
Based on the totality of the data assessed during the procedure and on the advice from the 
Scientific Advisory Group, the PRAC concluded that the benefit-risk balance of Procoralan/Corlentor 
remains favourable taking into account the product information amendments and subject to the 
risk minimisation measures and additional pharmacovigilance activity agreed.  
52 
 
Grounds for the recommendation 
Whereas 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The PRAC considered Procoralan and Corlentor (ivabradine) in the procedure under Article 20 of 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, initiated by the European Commission. 
The PRAC reviewed all data presented by the MAH on the safety and efficacy of ivabradine, 
including the results of the SIGNIFY study, as well as the views expressed by the 
cardiovascular scientific advisory group. 
The PRAC noted that the data from the SIGNIFY study showed that ivabradine does not have a 
beneficial effect on cardiovascular outcomes in coronary artery patients without clinical heart 
failure, and therefore its use is only beneficial for symptomatic treatment. 
The PRAC also noted a small but significant increase of the combined risk of cardiovascular 
death and non-fatal myocardial infarction in a subgroup of symptomatic angina patients in the 
SIGNIFY study. The individual components of the endpoint were not significantly increased. 
Ivabradine was also associated with a significantly higher risk of bradycardia. The PRAC is of 
the opinion that the higher than approved dose used in the SIGNIFY study does not fully 
explain these findings.   
The PRAC considered that the increased risks observed can be minimised by reinforcing the 
recommendation not to exceed the authorised posology, excluding patients with a resting heart 
rate < 70 bpm who are likely to be at greater risk, recommending discontinuation of treatment 
in the absence of improvement in angina symptoms within 3 months and contraindicating 
concomitant use of verapamil and diltiazem.  
The PRAC further considered data on the incidence of atrial fibrillation, which is higher than 
previously recognised, and concluded that ivabradine treated patients should be monitored for 
the occurrence of atrial fibrillation to minimise the risk of atrial fibrillation. If atrial fibrillation 
develops during treatment, the benefits and risks of continued treatment with ivabradine 
should be carefully reconsidered. 
The PRAC concluded that there are clinically relevant benefits to the symptomatic treatment of 
angina pectoris with ivabradine.  
The PRAC is therefore of the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of ivabradine remains favourable 
taking into account the product information amendments and subject to the risk minimisation 
measures and additional pharmacovigilance activities agreed.  
The PRAC has therefore recommended the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for 
Corlentor and Procoralan. 
53 
 
2 – Detailed explanation of the scientific differences from PRAC 
recommendation 
Having reviewed the PRAC recommendation, the CHMP agreed with the overall scientific 
conclusions and grounds for recommendation.  
The CHMP considered it necessary to introduce a statement in section 4.8 of the Summary of 
Product Characteristics reflecting the incidence of atrial fibrillation in the SIGNIFY study. Additional 
clarifications were also introduced in the DHPC. 
CHMP opinion 
The CHMP, having considered the PRAC recommendation, agrees with the overall scientific 
conclusions by the PRAC and is of the opinion that the marketing authorisations for Corlentor and 
Procoralan should be varied.  
54 
 
