SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
List of abbreviations 
AE 
AF 
95% CI 
ALAT 
ALP 
ALT 
ASAT 
AST 
AUC 
AWth 
b.i.d. 
blq 
bpm 
BSE 
CABG 
CAD 
CCS 
CHMP 
CL 
Cmax 
CNS 
COPD 
CPK 
CYP3A4 
DBP 
DT 
e.g. 
EAE 
ECG 
EMEA 
ERG 
ETT 
F 
FAS 
FDA 
GC 
GGT 
GLP 
HbA1c 
HCN 
HCV 
HF 
HIV 
HPLC 
HR 
HRR 
ICH 
i.e. 
i.v. 
Adverse event 
Atrial fibrillation 
95% confidence interval 
Alanine aminotransferase 
Alkaline phosphatase 
Alanine transaminase, alanine aminotransferase 
Aspartate aminotransferase 
Aspartate aminotransferase 
Area under the curve 
Thickening of the anterior wall 
Twice daily 
Below limit of quantification 
Beats per minute 
Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy 
Coronary artery bypass graft 
Coronary artery disease 
Canadian cardiovascular society 
Committee of Medicinal Products for Human Use 
Total clearance 
Maximum plasma concentration 
Central nervous system 
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease 
Creatine phospho kinase 
Cytochrome P450 isoenzyme 3A4 
Diastolic blood pressure 
Diastolic time 
exempla gratia (for example) 
Emergent adverse event 
Electrocardiogram 
European Medicines Agency 
Electroretinography 
Exercise tolerance tests 
Absolute bioavailability 
Full Analysis Set 
Food and Drug Administration 
Gas Chromatography 
Gammaglutamyltranspeptidase 
Good laboratory practice 
Glycosylated haemoglobin 
Hyperpolarisation-activated cyclic-nucleotide-gated channel 
Hepatitis C virus 
Heart failure 
Human immunodeficiency virus 
High-performance liquid chromatography 
Heart rate 
Heart rate reduction 
International conference on harmonisation of technical requirements for 
registration of pharmaceuticals for human use 
id est 
Intravenous 
1/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
IOP 
IR 
LC 
LC-MS-MS 
LD50 
LDL 
LV 
LVD 
LVdP/dt 
LVH 
LVWth 
MBP 
MI 
MVO2 
N 
NOEL/ NOAEL 
NOS 
OSS 
p.o. 
PPS 
PTCA 
PVC 
PVD 
RH 
RPE 
RPP 
SBP 
SD 
SEAE 
SPC 
TAO 
TED 
TLA 
TLC 
tmax 
ULN 
VDS 
VEP 
Intraocular pressure 
Infra red 
Liquid chromatography 
Liquid chromatography mass detection 
Lethal dose 50 
Low density lipoprotein 
Left ventricular 
Left ventricular dysfunction 
First derivative of left ventricular pressure over time 
Left ventricular hypertrophy 
Left ventricular wall thickening 
Mean blood pressure 
Myocardial infarction 
Myocardial volume of oxygen consumption 
Number 
No observable effect level 
Not otherwise specified 
Overall oral safety set 
Per os 
Per Protocol Set 
Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty 
Polyvinyl chloride 
Peripheral vascular disease 
Relative humidity 
Retinal pigment epithelium 
Rate pressure product 
Systolic blood pressure 
Standard Deviation 
Serious emergent adverse event 
Summary of product characteristics 
Time to angina onset 
Total exercise test duration 
Time to limiting angina 
Total lung capacity 
Time at maximum plasma concentration 
Upper limit of normal range 
Visual disturbance subset 
Visual evoked potential 
2/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
1. 
Introduction 
Chronic  stable  angina  pectoris  is  a  common  disorder:  the  annual  incidence  varies  between  ~0.2%  in 
southern European countries and > 0.6% in northern Europe. In countries with relatively high coronary 
heart disease rates, the prevalence may be 3–4% of the total population. The term is primarily used for 
chest discomfort due to myocardial ischaemia associated with coronary artery disease (CAD), although 
it  is  recognised  that  there  are  other  important  causes  of  angina  pectoris,  such  as  aortic  stenosis  and 
hypertrophic  cardiomyopathy.  The  symptoms  occur  when  there  is  an  imbalance  between  myocardial 
perfusion  and  the  demands  of  the  myocardium  and  the  pathological  substrate  for  this  is  almost 
invariably atheromatous narrowing of the coronary arteries.  In daily life, symptoms typically  occur in 
conditions  associated  with  increased  myocardial  oxygen  consumption,  such  as  during  exercise. 
However,  even  in  stable  angina  pectoris,  symptoms  may  vary  from  time  to  time,  depending  on  such 
factors  as  ambient  temperature  and  emotional  stress.  Prognosis  of  stable  angina  pectoris  is  relatively 
good in most patients, with an overall mortality rate of 2–3% per annum, although a further 2–3% each 
year  will  have  a  non-fatal  myocardial  infarction  and  some  subgroups  of  patients,  such  as  those  with 
impaired left ventricular function, are at much higher risk. 
The primary goals in the treatment of stable angina pectoris are (1) to improve prognosis by preventing 
myocardial  infarction  and  death  and  (2)  to  minimize  or  abolish  symptoms.  The  treatment  of  angina 
includes  attempts  to  halt  progression  of  coronary  atherosclerosis  (e.g.  by  lifestyle  changes),  besides 
drugs and interventional techniques to accomplish these goals. Three main classes of drugs are used to 
control  symptoms  in  chronic  stable  angina:  nitrates,  beta-blockers  (e.g. atenolol) and calcium channel 
blockers  (e.g.  amlodipine).  For  symptom  relief,  generally  sublingual  short-acting  nitrates  are  used 
whereas  long-acting  nitrates  are  used  for  intermittent  prophylaxis  as  continuous  treatment  leads  to 
tachyphylaxis. 
It  is  recognised  that  heart  rate  reduction is of paramount importance in the treatment of patients with 
coronary artery disease and angina. Heart rate reduction decreases oxygen consumption which prevents 
symptoms and has been shown as an independent factor for reducing morbidity and mortality in patients 
with  CAD.  Beta-blockers  reduce  heart  rate  and  are  usually  the  first-line  prophylactic  treatment  for 
stable  angina in Europe, based on their proven long-term anti-anginal effect as well as positive effects 
on clinical outcome. Calcium channel blockers are mostly a second-line alternative when beta-blockers 
are  contraindicated  or  ineffective  (or  in  combination  when  beta-blockers  alone  are  insufficient). 
Currently,  a  new  concept  for  therapeutic  class  of  anti-ischaemic  agents  with  specific  negative 
chronotropic action has been developed, the If inhibitors. This new concept involves decreasing the heart 
rate  and  thereby  prolongation  of  the  duration  of  diastole,  so  as  to  improve  the  balance  between 
myocardial oxygen supply and demand as well as coronary perfusion.  
Ivabradine is a specific heart rate lowering agent, acting by reducing the rate of pacemaker activity in 
the  sinoatrial  node.  Within  the  sinoatrial  node,  ivabradine  is  a  selective  inhibitor  of  If  ,  an  important 
current  involved  in  generating  the  early  phase  of  spontaneous  diastolic  depolarisation  in  pacemaker 
cells, thereby reducing the frequency of action potential initiation and lowering heart rate. The cardiac 
effects  are  specific  to  the  sinus  node  with  no  effect  on  intra-atrial,  atrioventricular  or intraventricular 
conduction 
times,  nor  on  myocardial  contractility  or  ventricular  repolarisation  or  coronary 
vasomotricity. 
2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The  product  is  presented  as  film  coated  tablets  containing  5.390 mg  ivabradine  hydrochloride 
corresponding to 5 mg ivabradine base and 8.085 mg ivabradine hydrochloride corresponding to 7.5 mg 
ivabradine  base  as  active  substance.  Other  ingredients  are  lactose  monohydrate,  magnesium  stearate, 
3/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
maize  starch,  maltodextrin,  silica,  hypromellose,  titanium  dioxide  (E171),  macrogol  6000,  glycerol, 
yellow iron oxide (E172) and red iron oxide (E172). 
The tablets are packed in Aluminium/PVC blister strips packed in cardboard boxes. 
Drug Substance  
Ivabradine  hydrochloride  is  a  white  to  slightly  yellow  powder.  It  is  freely  soluble  in  water, 
dimethylsulfoxide,  methanol  and  methylene  chloride,  it  is  soluble  in  ethanol  and  slightly  soluble  in 
the  chemical  name  3-(3-{[((7S)-3,4-Dimethoxybicyclo[4.2.0]octa-1,3,5-trien-7-
acetone.  It  has 
propyl)-1,3,4,5-tetrahydro-7,8-dimethoxy-2H-3-benzazepin-2-one, 
yl)methyl]  methyl 
hydrochloride. Ivabradine hydrochloride is optically active and corresponds to the S isomer.  
amino} 
Manufacture 
Ivabradine hydrochloride is synthesised from azepan and butamine hydrochloride in one manufacturing 
step.  Adequate  in-process  controls  are  applied  during  the  synthesis.  The  specifications  and  control 
methods  for  intermediate  products,  starting  materials  and  reagents,  have  been  presented  and  are 
satisfactory. A reprocessing procedure is performed in case of non-compliance of the product. 
Batch analysis data is provided on 3 batches produced with the proposed synthetic route, and the batch 
analysis data show that the active substance can be manufactured reproducibly, and in compliance with 
the agreed specification. 
Specification 
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  solubility,  identification  (HPLC  and 
IR), assay (99.0-101.0%, Potentiometric titration), related substances (HPLC), water content, sulphated 
ash,  heavy metals, chloride content, chloride identification (Ph Eur), residual solvents (GC),  R isomer 
content (HPLC), specific optical rotation and particle size (Laser Granulometry). 
The specifications reflect all relevant quality attributes of the active substance. The analytical methods 
used  in  the  routine  controls  are  suitably  described.  The  validation  studies  are  in  accordance  with  the 
ICH Guidelines. Impurity limits in the specification are justified by toxicology studies. 
Stability 
Stability  of  ivabradine  hydrochloride  has  been  shown  under  long  term,  intermediate  and  accelerated 
conditions according to the ICH/CPMP guidelines and in addition at 30°C/70% RH in the reduced size 
industrial bulk packaging (cardboard drum) up to 3 years for two pilot scale batches an up to 3 years 
for one industrial scale batch. 
The  parameters  tested  were,  appearance,  water  content,  IR-spectrum,  assay  of  the  active  substance 
(HPLC and potentiometry), related substances and R-isomer content. 
The specifications were met for all batches at all storage conditions. No noticeable signs of degradation 
and  no  increase  of  impurities  were  observed.  Based  on  these  results  the  proposed  re-test  period  is 
acceptable when stored in the original container closure system. 
Drug Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The main goal was to develop a rapid dissolution finished product to be administered orally.  
4/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A compatibility study involving the drug substance and a number of excipients was carried out to select 
the excipients in the finished product. Wet granulation was chosen as manufacturing process. 
During clinical development several formulations were manufactured and administered to subjects and 
patients. The minor differences in the compositions of the formulations used in the clinical phase studies 
were adequately explained. 
During the development the test methods  were set up to the control: the manufacture of the granulate, 
the compression of the core tablets and the properties of film-coated tablets. 
The  choice  of  excipients  was  initially  oriented  by  the  above  mentioned  compatibility  study.  The 
formulation was thereafter modified to take into account the properties of each excipient to produce a 
robust pharmaceutical dosage form, from the production perspective, and to yield a drug product with 
immediate release characteristics. All the excipients used in the finished product comply with the Ph.Eur 
except the two coating agents, red and yellow iron oxides, which  comply with the European Directive 
95/45/EC. 
Lactose  monohydrate  is  the  only  excipient  of  animal  origin  used  and  it  is  in  compliance  with  the 
European  Commission  Decision  2001/2/EC  regulating  the  use  of  material  presenting  risks  as  regards 
transmissible spongiform encephalopathy and the public statement "Lactose prepared using calf rennet: 
risk assessment in relationship to bovine spongiform encephalopathies (BSE)" (EMEA/CPMP/571/02). 
The tablets are packed in a heat-sealed blister pack composed of polyvinyl chloride sheet (PVC) and 
aluminium foil. The blisters are packed in a cardboard box. The compatibility of the finished product 
with the primary packaging was demonstrated in the stability studies.  
Manufacture of the Product 
Wet granulation was chosen as manufacturing process. 
The in process controls are adequate for this film coated tablet preparation. 
The batch analysis data presented show that the film coated tablets can be manufactured reproducibly 
according  to  the  agreed  finished  product  specifications,  which  is  suitable  for  control  of  this  oral 
preparation. 
Product Specification 
The  product  specifications  include  tests  by  validated  methods  for  appearance,  identification  of 
ivabradine  (HPLC,  TLC),  average  mass,  disintegration  time  (Ph  Eur),  microbiological  quality,  drug 
substance content (HPLC, 95-105% of the label at release, 94-105% at shelf life) degradation products 
(HPLC), content uniformity (Ph Eur). 
Degradation  products  are  controlled  and  their  limits  are  justified  by  reference  to  stability  studies  and 
toxicology studies. 
The tests and limits of the specifications for the finished product are appropriate to control the quality 
of the finished product for their intended purpose. 
Batch analysis data are presented for two full scale batches and six pilot scale batches of 5 mg tablets 
and  for  two  full  scale  batches  and  seven  pilot  scale  batches  of  7.5  mg  tablets.  The  presented  data 
confirm consistency and uniformity of the product from batch to batch. 
Stability of the Product 
5/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability data of 3 pilot batches of each strength packed in the proposed marketing immediate packaging 
was  provided.  The  batches  were  stored  under  ICH  conditions  at  40ºC/75%  RH  for  6  months,  at 
30ºC/60% RH for 12 months and 25ºC/60% RH, and at 30ºC/70% RH for 36 months. 
The parameters investigated were appearance, odour, average mass, uniformity of mass of tablet halves 
(for  5  mg  tablets  only),  disintegration  time,  microbiological  quality,  assay,  degradation  products, 
uniformity of content. 
Stress towards temperature and photostability stability testing were performed in one 5 mg and 7.5 mg 
pilot  batch  packed  in  heat-sealed  aluminium/polyvinyl  chloride  blister.  For  photostability  testing,  the 
tablets were directly  exposed. Based  on the results, it was concluded that extreme temperature had no 
effect on the quality of the tablets and no light resistant packaging was needed. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SPC are 
acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product have 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory consistency 
and uniformity of important product quality characteristics. 
At  the  time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no 
impact on the benefit/risk ratio of the product. 
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The standard safety pharmacology studies complied with the ICH S7A guideline and were performed 
according to the applicant under GLP. In addition, a small number of investigational studies 
necessitated specialised expertise (e.g. mechanistic studies and exploration of visual system); these 
usually were not performed according to GLP. Particular emphasis was placed on the cardiovascular 
system, because it is the target system, and on the visual system, due to visual symptoms reported in 
clinical trials.  Pivotal toxicological studies were carried out according to the applicant under GLP 
except for one complementary embryofoetal development rabbit study. 
Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
In vitro 
Inhibition  of  the  cardiac  pacemaker  f-current  (If)  reduces  the  slope  of  spontaneous  diastolic 
depolarisation,  thereby  increasing  the  time  required  to  reach  the voltage  threshold  for action potential 
initiation  and  slowing  the  spontaneous  firing  and  therefore  heart  rate.  In  vitro,  ivabradine  was  a 
selective inhibitor of If, which was concentration-, use- and current-dependent. In isolated rat right atria, 
ivabradine  reduced  the  spontaneous  atrial  beating  rate;  a  similar  rate  reduction  of 20% was observed 
after either ~3 h exposure to 0.1 µM ivabradine or after 30 min incubation at 1 µM. In isolated rabbit 
sinoatrial node, a similar (9-12%) firing-rate reduction was achieved after 3h at 0.1 µM or after 40 min 
at  1  µ M. At all concentrations (0.03-1µM) tested, only the slope of slow diastolic depolarisation was 
reduced, while maximal diastolic potential or threshold potential of activation remained unaffected. 
The If patch-clamp studies in rabbit sinoatrial node cells demonstrated a concentration-dependent block 
of  If  with  an  IC50  in  the  range  of  1.5  to  3  µ M.  If  is  carried  by  hyperpolarisation-activated,  cyclic 
6/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nucleotide-gated  channels  (similar  channels  carrying  hyperpolarisation-activated  Ih  currents  have been 
identified in photoreceptors of retina and ganglion cells).  
The  selectivity  of  ivabradine  for  If  in  pacemaker  cells  was  assessed.  In  rabbit  sinus-node  cells, 
ivabradine  blocked  If with  a  high  degree of selectivity, since at concentrations close to the IC50 for If 
inhibition (i.e. 1.5 to 3 µ M), no effect was observed on ICa,L, ICa,T and IK. Thus, the effect of ivabradine 
on the diastolic depolarisation slope resulted from a selective inhibition of If. 
In vivo: 
In vivo pharmacodynamic studies were carried out to study the effects of ivabradine in rats, dogs and 
pigs. Studies in rats were conducted under both acute and sub-acute (up to 10 days) conditions, using 
either oral (gavage), sub-cutaneous or intravenous routes. In pigs and dogs, intravenous administration 
was  mainly  used.  The  electrocardiographic  and  cardiac  haemodynamic  effects  of  ivabradine  were 
assessed both at rest (rats, pigs and dogs) and during treadmill exercise (pigs and dogs).  
In  Wistar  rats,  ivabradine  administered  as  single  i.v.  (0.5  to  2  mg/kg)  or  oral doses (1.5 to  6 mg/kg) 
produced a dose-dependent heart-rate reduction (maximal reduction: i.v.: 20-30%; p.o.: 14-22%) lasting 
at least 6 h at the highest doses, without modifying the mean blood pressure. After oral administration 
of  ivabradine  at  3  mg/kg/d,  a  similar  daily heart rate (HR) profile was observed from Day 1 through 
Day 10, without any effect on mean blood pressure and no residual heart-rate reduction 24 h after the 
last administration. In conscious Long-Evans rats, single i.v. bolus administration of ivabradine at the 
high dose of 10 mg/kg induced 57% heart-rate reduction, with no sign of negative inotropic effect. At 
these dose-levels, the heart rate reduction (HRR) was associated with an increase in stroke index. 
In  anaesthetised  open-chest  pigs,  successive  i.v.  doses  of  ivabradine  (0.1, 0.3 and  1 mg/kg) exerted a 
potent  and  dose-dependent  HR  lowering  effect  (16-37%),  without  affecting  myocardial  contractility, 
ventricular  repolarisation  (QTc)  and  atrioventricular  conduction  (PR-interval).  Ivabradine  did  not 
modify  blood  pressure,  peripheral  and  vascular  resistance,  left  ventricular  (LV)  contractility,  and 
prevented the spontaneous fall of stroke volume observed with vehicle (due to anaesthesia). 
The  kinetic  profile  for  heart-rate reduction  was  similar  in  rats  and  pigs after oral administration with 
peak  effect  generally  reached  within  3  to  4  h  and  lasting  8  to  12  h.  After  intravenous  bolus 
administration  (rats,  pigs  or  dogs),  heart-rate  reduction  occurred  significantly  more  rapidly,  within  5 
min after dosing, peak effect being reached after 15-20 min. 
In conscious micropigs, a single oral 5 mg/kg dose of ivabradine reduced HR (~20%) at rest and during 
exercise for at least 5 h. Ivabradine did not change the exercise-induced rise in myocardial contractility, 
supporting  the  absence  of  negative  inotropic  effect  and  the  increase  in  cardiac  output  induced  by 
exercise, through an increase in stroke volume. Ivabradine had no effect on SBP and MBP at rest and 
during exercise. A slight but significant decline in resting DBP was noted (-6.7±7.2 vs. +7.2±2.5% with 
vehicle, 3 h post-dose). 
In male mongrel dogs ivabradine induced a dose-related HRR, significant at rest from 0.5 mg/kg i.v. (-
16 and -23% at 0.5 and 1 mg/kg, respectively) and during exercise from 0.3 mg/kg i.v. (~ -10 and -30% 
at 0.3 and 1 mg/kg, respectively). Ivabradine did not change the increase in mean coronary blood flow 
velocity  and  the  decrease  in  coronary  vascular resistance observed during control exercise. Epicardial 
coronary  artery  diameter  was  not  affected  at  rest  and  its  increase  during  exercise  was  attenuated  by 
ivabradine.  Ivabradine  did  not  significantly  decrease  LVdP/dt  throughout  exercise.  Despite  HRR, 
ivabradine maintained the exercise-increased cardiac output by increasing stroke volume. All coronary 
and haemodynamic effects of ivabradine were abolished by atrial pacing. 
Effects  on  myocardial  oxygen  balance  were  assessed  in  male  mongrel  dogs  treated  with  a  single  i.v. 
dose of ivabradine (1 mg/kg). During treadmill-exercise ivabradine reduced HR (~ -30%) and LV mean 
ejection wall stress was not altered. LVdP/dtmax was not reduced.  Diastolic time (DT) was increased 
vs.  saline  (233±11  ms  vs.  123±4  ms).  Myocardial  oxygen  demand  (MVO2)  was  significantly  lower 
7/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
under  ivabradine  vs.  saline  (6.7±0.6  vs.  8.1±0.6  ml/min).  Under  atrial  pacing,  DT  and  MVO2  were 
similar between ivabradine and saline. 
In  mongrel  dogs  at  rest  ivabradine  (i.v.  doses  of  0.25,  0.5  and  1  mg/kg)  did  not  increase  the  time 
constant  of  isovolumic  relaxation.  During  exercise  at  1  mg/kg  ivabradine  limited  exercise-induced 
tachycardia and had no effect on isovolumic relaxation. 
The effects of ivabradine were also assessed in the ischaemic setting in pig- and dog-models of exercise-
induced  ischaemia,  mimicking  exercise-induced  angina  pectoris  in  humans.  The  pig model  involved  a 
fixed partial stenosis of the left anterior descending coronary artery, and the dog model  used a partial 
stenosis  of  the  left  circumflex  coronary  artery  applied  by  an  occluder  to  suppress  the  increase  in 
coronary  blood  flow  during  exercise.  In  pigs,  ivabradine  (0.5  mg/kg  i.v.  or  5  mg/kg  p.o.)  prevented 
exercise-induced  regional  myocardial  ischaemia,  as  demonstrated  by  a  limitation  of  ST-segment 
elevation  and  a  protection  of  the  regional  contractility  in  myocardium  area  perfused  by  the  stenosed 
artery.  Ivabradine  did  not  reduce  left  ventricular  contractility  nor  prolong  atrioventricular  conduction 
time.  Ivabradine  improved  myocardial  contractile  function  in  the  ischaemic  zone.  In  the  dog  model, 
ivabradine  (1mg/kg  i.v.  bolus,  0.5mg/kg  i.v.  over  6h)  limited  exercise-induced  myocardial  ischaemia. 
During  exercise  under  saline,  left  ventricular  wall  thickening  (LVWth)  was  reduced  (from  29±4%  to 
2±1%);  when  administered  before  exercise,  ivabradine  attenuated  LVWth  depression  during  exercise 
(from  35±6%  to  10±3%)  and  limited  the  subsequent  myocardial  stunning  vs.  saline.  Atenolol  further 
blunted LVWth depression during exercise (from 29±4% to 17±4%) but had no effect on stunning vs. 
saline.  
The heart rate-lowering activity of several ivabradine metabolites was assessed, in vitro in rat right atria 
and in vivo in rats after a single i.v. (2 mg/kg) or oral dose (6 mg/kg). Results showed that the cleaved 
compounds were all inactive in these models, while all uncleaved compounds tested showed a heart rate-
lowering activity, similar to the parent compound. The contribution of each active metabolite to heart-
rate reduction in rat and dog was likely to be limited, considering their low plasma levels relative to the 
parent compound (<1% - 14%). 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
The  effect  of  ivabradine  on  LV  function  in  chronic  heart  failure  (HF)  was  studied  in  coronary artery 
ligated rat model. One week after coronary artery ligation, male Wistar rats received vehicle (control) or 
ivabradine  at  the  doses  of  0.3,  1,  3  or  10  mg/kg/d  for  3  months.  Ivabradine  caused  sustained  HR 
reduction and limited left ventricular systolic dysfunction and remodelling. 
In a chronic 9-month contractile dysfunction study male Wistar rats were subjected to abdominal aortic 
banding to induce pressure-overload cardiac hypertrophy in the absence of necrosis. The combination of 
ivabradine  and  dobutamine  prevented  dobutamine-induced  tachycardia,  maintained  positive  inotropic 
effect of dobutamine and increased stroke volume. 
In another study anaesthetised male Wistar rats were subjected to ischaemia (I; left coronary artery 
occlusion) followed by reperfusion (R). 30 min after the start of R, rats received either: vehicle, 
ivabradine (2 mg/kg i.v.) or dobutamine (2.5 µg/kg/min iv for 90 min) and 30 min after onset of 
dobutamine, vehicle or ivabradine (2 mg/kg) for 60 min. I/R lead to a marked stunning, as assessed by a 
marked and persistent decrease in systolic thickening of the anterior wall (AWth) during R, which was 
reversed by dobutamine. Dobutamine increased HR (from 265±19 to 374±14 bpm) and fractional 
shortening (+85%), without significant effect on stroke volume. Ivabradine abolished dobutamine-
induced tachycardia (232±15 bpm) and did not change the effect of dobutamine on stunning (AWth: 
90±5%). Fractional shortening and stroke volume were increased. 
Safety pharmacology 
8/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Receptor binding studies 
Studies  performed  on  18  cell  surface  receptors  and  binding  sites  showed  the  lack  of  affinity  of 
ivabradine for adrenergic, serotonin, central benzodiazepine, dopamine, adenosine, histamine, GABAA, 
µ-opioid, muscarinic cholinergic receptors and dihydropyridine binding site of the calcium channel. Low 
affinity for the phenyl-alkyl-amine binding site of the L-type Ca2+ channel and for the voltage dependent 
Na+  channel  was  observed  in  these  isolated  open-membrane  systems  but  was  not  confirmed  in  more 
specific electrophysiological studies (microelectrode/patch-clamp).  
Heart 
Ivabradine  and  S  18982  were  evaluated  for  their  potential  to  prolong  ventricular  repolarisation  (QT-
prolongation) independently of that related to heart-rate reduction. 
In vitro  
In  guinea-pig  papillary  muscle,  ivabradine  slightly  (<10%  at  the  high  concentration  of  10  µ M) 
prolonged action potential duration. In rabbit cardiac Purkinje fibres action potential increased slightly 
(by 14 to 46%) at 3 and 10 µ M (~150-fold the mean Cmax achieved in patients with ivabradine 7.5 mg 
twice  daily).    In  dog  cardiac  Purkinje  fibres,  action  potential  was  unaffected  up  to  10  µM.  No 
proarrhythmogenic effect was observed. Results from HERG-channel assay indicated a concentration-
related block of IKr, with an IC50 of 4.85 and 15.8 µM for ivabradine and S 18982, respectively (~70- 
and 900-fold the mean plasma Cmax for ivabradine and S 18982, respectively, in patients treated with 
ivabradine 7.5 mg twice daily). When accounting for unbound plasma fraction (30%), these ratios go up 
to ~244- and ~3000-fold, respectively. Ivabradine had no effect on IKs. 
In vivo 
An  electrocardiographic  analysis  in  unrestrained  beagle  dogs  over  repeated  oral  administration  of 
ivabradine for 5 days at doses ranging from 0.5 to 15 mg/kg twice daily revealed no significant effect on 
QTc  nor  on  QT/RR-relationship  up  to  the  highest  dose  associated  with  mean  plasma  Cmax  134-fold 
greater than in patients with ivabradine 7.5 mg twice daily.  
The  reversal  of  cardiovascular  effects  that could  occur  following  accidental  overdose  with ivabradine 
was evaluated in chronically instrumented conscious dogs. The overdose (mean plasma Cmax 178-fold 
greater than in patients at 7.5 mg  twice daily) induced transient increases in systolic arterial pressure, 
LV  systolic  and  diastolic  pressures,  and  LVdP/dtmin  that  spontaneously  normalised  within  20  to  60 
min. Bradycardia was the only long-duration effect, although HR was never below 50 bpm. Heart-rate 
reduction was  25%  at  maximum. Heart-rate reduction was effectively and rapidly reversed with either 
isoprenaline  or  dobutamine.  Atropine  was  not  able  to  consistently  reverse  ivabradine-induced 
bradycardia. 
Eyes 
Ocular safety was assessed in vitro and in vivo (by excess of pharmacological doses of 100-fold for in 
vitro studies and ~40-fold in vivo up to 4 weeks duration) with no evidence of functional or structural 
alterations  of  any  of  the  retinal  cell  layers.  The  ion  permeability  function  of  the  retinal  pigment 
epithelium  (RPE)  and  the  integrity  of  the  tight  junctions,  upon  which  barrier  function  is  highly 
dependent, were not affected. There was no deregulation of apoptosis (programmed cell death, TUNEL 
assay)  in  retinal  or  glial  cells  and  no  ultrastructural  change  in  rats  after  oral  ivabradine  at  6  and  60 
mg/kg/d for 4 weeks. Although these data were obtained in albino rats, which do not take into account 
the melanin binding of ivabradine and its distribution in the pigmented uveal tract, they were consistent 
with electron microscopy results in the highly pigmented dog eyes after high dose administration for 1 
year. Using the voltage-clamp technique, ivabradine induced a concentration-dependent inhibition of the 
retinal current encoded by mHCN1 with an IC50 of 16 µ M. 
CNS 
Single  oral  doses  of  ivabradine  up  to  80  mg/kg  did  not  affect  spontaneous  locomotor  activity, 
hexobarbital-induced sleeping time, the latencies for reaction to pain (hot plate test), and did not induce 
proconvulsant  activity  in  Wistar  rats.    Single  oral  doses of ivabradine  up to 59 mg/kg did not induce 
9/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
any  physiological  or  behavioural  effects.  In  the  rat  (Irwin  test)  moderate  sedation  and  slight 
hypothermia were observed within 30 min after dosing at 119 and 238 mg/kg. 
Respiratory system 
Single oral doses of ivabradine at 5 mg/kg did not affect the respiratory functions in rats. At the higher 
doses of 20 and 80 mg/kg, ivabradine elicited a transient increase in respiratory rate (max +17%), but 
did not alter any other respiratory parameters. 
Gastrointestinal  
Gastrointestinal effects were assessed in rats given single oral doses of ivabradine ranging from 5 up to 
30  mg/kg.  There  was  no  effect  on  gastric  secretions  in  pylorus-ligated  Wistar  rats.  Gastrointestinal 
transit  time  was  slightly  delayed  in  Wistar  rats  that  had  no  access  to  drinking  water;  the  effect  was 
dose-dependent across all doses. At the highest single oral dose of 30 mg/kg, some ulcerogenic activity 
was noted but infusion of 28 mg/kg/d over 14 days did not affect the gastric mucosa. 
Renal 
Urine  output,  electrolyte  balance  and  glomerular  filtration  rate  were  measured  in  saline-loaded  rats 
given single oral doses of ivabradine at 5, 15 and 30 mg/kg. There was a dose-related increase in urine 
volume, and a significant concomitant increase in sodium excretion at the two highest doses, which was 
of  similar  magnitude  at  both  doses.  Also,  renal  function  was  closely  monitored  in  chronic  toxicity 
studies  up  to  1  year  duration;  there  were  no  other  effects  on  renal  function  or  on  kidney  weight  or 
histopathology in any study, where exposure levels were up to 336-times higher than in patients at 7.5 
mg twice daily. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Pharmacodynamic interactions were carried out in normal animal models, as single dose studies. In rats, 
there was  no  interaction  with  aspirin (assessed by platelet aggregation and ulcerogenic activity) or on 
the  anticoagulant  effect  of  warfarin.  In  dogs,  there  was  no  significant  interaction  with  diltiazem  or 
digoxin;  ivabradine  limited  the  tachycardia  induced  by  isosorbide  dinitrate  and  verapamil  and  the 
prolongation of PR-interval elicited by verapamil.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics and metabolism of ivabradine was examined in the mouse,  rat and dog, species 
used in safety assessment, as well as in vitro using animal and human tissues. Since oral administration 
was  the  intended  route  for  human  use,  the pharmacokinetics  of  ivabradine was investigated following 
oral  administration  to  animals.  Pertinent  pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  also  obtained  from 
intravenous administration. S 18982 (N-desmethyl ivabradine) was the main active primary metabolite 
in  human  plasma  and  thus  its  pharmacokinetics  was  characterised  after  ivabradine  administration  in 
animals.  
The  pharmacokinetics  of  ivabradine  was  characterised  using  non-compartmental  (model-independent) 
and compartmental (model-dependent/combined) approaches, while that of S 18982 was assessed using 
a non-compartmental approach only. Population analysis was applied to both the rat and dog data. 
The bio-analytical methods used for the determination of unchanged drug (ivabradine or S 16257) and 
its  N-desmethylated  metabolite  S  18982  involved  high  performance  liquid  chromatography  (HPLC), 
with either native fluorescence (LC-Fluorescence) or mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS) detection. 
All analyses of samples from regulatory toxicology studies, including prior analytical validations, were 
carried out according to the principles of GLP according to the applicant. 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
After  oral  administration  over  a  large  range  of  doses,  ivabradine  was  rapidly  and  almost  completely 
absorbed  with  moderate  bioavailability  of  around  40%,  due  to  a  first-pass  effect.  Peak  plasma 
10/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
concentrations were reached after 20 min in rats and 1 h in dogs. Kinetics was linear over a large range 
of doses, without time effect. A gender effect was evidenced only in rats, with females being on average 
3-fold  more  exposed  than  males,  which  is  consistent  with  the  first-pass  effect,  with  male  rats  having 
higher CYP3A4 activity than females.  
Distribution 
Ivabradine and/or its metabolites were rapidly and extensively distributed throughout the body in the rat 
and to a lesser extent in the dog. The volume of distribution at steady state was ~3.4 l/kg in the rat and 
~1 l/kg in the dog. 
Plasma  protein  binding  of  ivabradine  was  moderate  across  animal  species  (~50  to  70%).  Minimal 
saturation was observed in rat, rabbit and dog plasma at higher concentration (>250 ng/ml). The protein 
binding of S 18982 was also moderate (60-80%) in all animal species. 
The  most  exposed  tissue  was  the  uveal  tract.  A  slower  elimination  from  pigmented  structures  was 
observed (mainly iris, ciliary body and choroid), suggesting melanin binding. Microautoradiography of 
the chorio-retina in rats showed localisation in the choroid and not in the neuroretina, a structure devoid 
of melanin. Assay for ivabradine in the eyes of dogs exposed for one year confirmed the distribution of 
the  compound  in  the  anterior  and  posterior  ocular  segments,  including  iris  and  choroid.  A  similar 
pattern was observed for the metabolite S 18982. This binding was reversible. 
Ivabradine was also distributed into amniotic fluid as assayed in amniotic fluid of pregnant rats and was 
excreted in maternal milk of rats. Therefore, together with the indication of potential reproductive 
toxicity, ivabradine should not be given during pregnancy and breast-feeding, which is reflected in the 
SPC (4.6.). 
In the heart, ivabradine and/or derived compounds rapidly equilibrated with plasma. Ivabradine and S 
18982 were not retained in cardiac tissues as shown by blq (below limit of quantification) levels in the 
dog  heart  one  day  after  cessation  of  a  one-year  exposure  to  plasma  levels  up  to  50  times  those  in 
patients at high therapeutic dose of 7.5 mg twice daily. 
In the liver, ivabradine and S 18982 did not accumulate over time, as assayed in the rat after single and 
26-week  repeated  oral  administration.  In  the  brain,  passage  was  very  low,  as  shown  by  radioactivity 
levels representing at most 3% of plasma exposure following single dose in rats.  
Metabolism  
Ivabradine  was  extensively  metabolised  in  all  animal  species  tested  by  oxidation  via  CYP450.  The 
absence of bioconversion of ivabradine (S-enantiomer) into the R-enantiomer was demonstrated in rats 
and dogs. 
Ivabradine was neither an inducer nor an inhibitor of main drug-metabolising enzymes.  
Excretion 
Total plasma clearance at steady state was moderately high in rats (males: 66 to 32 ml/min/kg from 2.3 
to  37  mg/kg/d;  females:  ~40  ml/min/kg)  and  in  dogs  (~15  ml/min/kg)  and  the  renal  clearance 
contributed to ~5% of the total plasma clearance. Elimination of ivabradine mainly occurred via hepatic 
metabolism. 
In  the  rat,  the  main  half-life  (terminal phase)  ranged from 6 h in males to 14 h in females, consistent 
with  a  total  lower  clearance  in  females, and was  not associated with any accumulation in repeat-dose 
studies. In the dog, the main half-life (first exponential phase) was less than 2 h. 
11/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Faeces  was the major route of excretion of unchanged ivabradine and metabolites in rats and dogs. In 
both  species,  most  of  radioactivity  (85-94%)  was  eliminated  within  48  h.  In  plasma,  faeces,  bile  and 
urine,  most  of  the  radioactivity  (78-100%)  comprised  metabolites,  with  only  minor  amounts  of 
unchanged compound.  
Drug interactions 
No pharmacokinetic drug interaction studies were performed in animals.  
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
Acute toxicity studies were conducted in mice, rats and dogs.  
In  mice  and  rats,  the  observed  effects  were  behavioural  changes  in  association  with  high  plasma 
concentrations, and death (Observed minimal lethal doses: mice: ≥742 mg/kg p.o., ≥56 mg/kg i.v.; rats: 
≥557 mg/kg  p.o.,  ≥74 mg/kg  i.v.).  In  dogs,  the  observed  effects  were  neurobehavioural  changes 
(Maximum  tolerated  dose:  comprised  between  11  and  22  mg/kg  p.o.  in  a  dose-escalation  study,  9.3 
mg/kg i.v.). 
Repeated-dose toxicity 
The  main  repeated-dose  toxicity  studies were  conducted in rats  and dogs. In rats 6 main studies were 
conducted  with  oral  doses  (2.8-223  mg/kg/d;  three  4-week  studies,  one  13-week  study,  one  26-week 
study and one 1-year study), and one study with iv-dose (2.3-37 mg/kg/d; 4-week study). In dogs 4 main 
studies were carried out with oral doses (2-42 mg/kg/d; one 4-week study, one 13-week study, one 26-
week study and one 1-year study), and two studies with iv-doses (1.9-70 mg/kg/d; 4-week studies). 
Heart 
Heart rate reduction, the pharmacological effect of ivabradine, was evident from the lowest dose in the 
studies where it was measured. 
In the heart of rats, focal myocardial lesions were observed.  
NOEL/NOAEL was 6-7 mg/kg/day in 4-, 13- and 26-week studies. The exposure at these dosages was 
about 2 times (males) and 9  times (females) the human exposure  at  the maximum  therapeutic dose of 
7.5 mg twice daily. In the 1-year rat study, no NOEL/NOAEL could be established, since effects were 
already  visible  at  the  lowest  dose  of  6  mg/kg/day,  corresponding  to  4  times  (males)  and  10  times 
(females) the maximum therapeutic exposure. 
In dogs, the main treatment-related findings were sinus bradycardia, sinoatrial block, sinoatrial arrest, 
first-degree  atrioventricular  block  and  second-degree atrioventricular block. These ECG changes were 
seen  at  dose  levels  associated  with  mean  plasma  Cmax  20-fold  above  that  in  human  at  7.5 mg twice 
daily  (3  mg/kg/d;  13-week  study).  There  were  also  some  ventricular  escape  complexes  and  atrial  or 
ventricular  premature  complexes  at  doselevels  associated  with  mean  plasma  Cmax  at  least  80-fold 
greater than in human at 7.5 mg twice daily. No treatment-related ECG changes were noted at the end 
of the recovery periods. There was no effect on QT-interval duration corrected for heart rate at Cmax 
levels. 
Eyes 
Electroretinography (ERG) examinations were included in the 12-month repeated dose study in dogs (2, 
7 or 24 mg/kg/d). At 6 and 12 months, there were ERG changes in the cone system at exposures similar 
to the expected human therapeutic exposure; these were reversed at one week after treatment cessation 
12/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  at  the  following  treatment-free  periods  (up  to  11  weeks).  In  the  rod  system,  dark  adaptation was 
only  affected  in  the  first  few  minutes.  Shorter  time  intervals  than  6  months  were  not  evaluated.  The 
electroretinography  changes  did  not  worsen  as  treatment  progressed,  and  were  reversible  generally 
within  a  week  after  the  end  of  the  dosing  period.  There  were  no  ophthalmoscopic  changes  and  no 
pathological  changes  detected  by  light  microscopy  or  by  transmission  electron  microscopy  in  dogs 
exposed for one year to up to 70-fold and 50-fold higher than those in patients treated with 5 mg and 7.5 
mg  twice  daily.  Furthermore,  there  were  no  other  ophthalmological  effects  and,  particularly,  no 
histopathological effects in the eyes of any species in any study.  
Other organs 
In rats and dogs, the repeated-dose studies showed a number of other minor effects. These effects were 
not relevant for human at therapeutic exposures.  
Thymus atrophy and/or decrease in lymphocyte counts were occasionally reported. These changes were 
infrequent,  inconsistent  (observed  only  in  1  out  of  12  rat  studies,  and  in  2  out  of  9  dog  studies), 
appeared at high multiples of the exposure levels achieved in patients at the high therapeutic dose, were 
not confirmed in studies of longer duration, and were not associated with functional immunotoxicity.  
Toxicokinetics:  Toxicokinetic  studies  after  oral  administration  in  rats  showed  that  the  exposure  of 
females  to  the  drug  was  markedly  higher  than  that  of  the  males  (Cmax  and  AUC  on  average  3-fold 
higher in females). The metabolite S18982 was lower (AUC and Cmax) in females than in males. After 
IV administration no marked gender difference was observed.  
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo  
No  evidence  of  mutagenicity  or  relevant  clastogenic  activity  was  observed from an exhaustive review 
and  analysis  of  the  data  from  a  battery  of  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  genotoxicity  tests  performed  in 
accordance with ICH guidelines.  
Carcinogenicity  
The tumorigenic potential of ivabradine was investigated in mice and rats over 104 weeks. 
There was no evidence of ivabradine-related carcinogenic effects in mice and rats. 
Reproductive and developmental studies  
Reproductive and developmental toxicity studies were performed by the oral route of administration in 
rats and rabbits.  
Ivabradine did not affect fertility in male or female rats. 
Ivabradine was embryotoxic and teratogenic in rats and rabbits. Embryotoxic effects in rats comprised 
increased intrauterine and post-natal mortality, and teratogenic effects occurred in the heart at systemic 
exposure  levels close to those in patients receiving therapeutic doses of ivabradine. Adverse effects  in 
rabbits  comprised  three  foetuses  from  three  litters  in  two  out  of  three  separate  studies,  which  had 
ectrodactylia;  these  were  from  dams  exposed  to  21  times  the  mean  human  AUC.  Intrauterine  and 
neonatal  mortality  could  also  have  been  associated  with  potentially  lethal  cardiac  malformations,  as 
indicated  by  some  pups  that  died  neonatally  and  had  septal  defects.  In  light  of  these  data,  and 
considering the potential of ivabradine to transfer into placenta and to be excreted in milk, ivabradine 
should not be used during pregnancy or breast-feeding. These findings have been reflected in the SPC 
(section 4.3, 4.6, and 5.3).  
Local tolerance 
13/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Local  tolerance  was  assessed  in  the  intravenous  studies,  where  the  injection  sites  were  examined  at 
gross and microscopic examinations; there was no indication of local toxicity. In addition, the potential 
effects on red blood cells were evaluated in vitro on human blood. Ivabradine solutions did not present 
haemolytic  risk  at  concentrations  used  in  formulations  for  intravenous  administration  (i.e.  1  or  10 
mg/ml). 
Immunotoxicity 
In a 4-week Wistar rat study  (3, 16, 90 mg/kg twice daily), including lymphocyte subset analysis and 
Plaque-Forming  Cell  assay  using  sheep  red  blood  cells,  the  lack  of  functional  immunotoxicity  of 
ivabradine up to 90 mg/kg twice daily was shown.  
Phototoxicity 
The  potential  phototoxicity  of  ivabradine  was  assessed  using  the  in  vitro  Neutral  Red  Uptake  test  in 
cultured mouse Balb/c 3T3 fibroblasts. The results showed no cytotoxic effect observed after treatment 
of cells with ivabradine at concentrations up to 200 µ M. 
Impurities 
The impurities in ivabradine were adequately qualified in a 4-week Wistar rat toxicity study, an in vitro 
Ames  test  and  in  vivo  micronucleus  test.  No  genotoxic  potential or  differences  in  safety  profile  were 
found. 
Antigenicity 
The antigenicity of ivabradine was not studied. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
As  the  predicted  environmental  concentration  was  above  the  trigger  limit  of  0.01  µg/l,  the  applicant 
performed a set of studies required in the Phase II A of the assessment partially in accordance with the 
current  draft  CHMP  guideline  (CPMP/SWO/4447/00).  The  results  showed  that  no  adverse 
environmental  impact  from  use  of  ivabradine  in  soil  compartment  or  in  sewage  treatment  plants  was 
expected.  Bioaccumulation  was  also  considered  of  no  concern.  However,  the  environmental  risk 
assessment  for  the  aquatic  compartment  could  not  be  completed  due  to  missing  data.  Therefore  the 
applicant committed to perform a post-marketing follow-up measure to address this issue. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacology 
The  nonclinical  pharmacology  programme  characterised  ivabradine  as  a  selective  inhibitor  of  the 
cardiac pacemaker If-current, involved in the regulation of heart rate. This action resulted in a specific 
heart-rate reduction that affords effective cardioprotection on both ischaemic and stunned myocardium 
in experimental models. 
The  cardiac  effects  of  ivabradine  were  specific  of  the  sinus  node,  with  no  effect  on  left  ventricular 
contractility  and  relaxation,  cardiac  conduction  (atrioventricular  or  intraventricular)  or  ventricular 
repolarisation.  In  contrast  to  beta-blockers,  ivabradine  efficiently limited exercise-induced tachycardia 
while preserving the adaptations of myocardial contractility, cardiac output, mean coronary blood flow 
velocity and vascular resistances observed during exercise.  
Ivabradine  did  not  bind  to  other  receptors  (including  adrenergic,  muscarinergic  and  serotonergic 
receptors). From preclinical studies at pharmacological doses, there was no indication of safety concern 
relevant to human on major vital body systems. 
14/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Specific studies on the visual system supported that the visual symptoms reported in the clinic did not 
reflect  any  toxicity  of  ivabradine  on ocular structures, but rather pointed  to a pharmacological effect, 
secondary  to  the  partial  inhibition  of  Ih  in  the  retina  (shares  common  properties  with  the  cardiac 
pacemaker current If). 
In  dogs,  an  overdose  of  ivabradine  was  rather  well  tolerated,  and  bradycardia  was  easily  and  rapidly 
reversed by beta-stimulating agents such as isoprenaline or dobutamine. 
From  preclinical  studies at pharmacological doses,  there is no indication of safety concern relevant to 
human on major vital body systems, including cardiovascular, visual, CNS, respiratory, gastrointestinal 
and renal systems.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  ivabradine  was  comprehensively  described  in  animal  species  used  for safety 
evaluation.  Ivabradine  was  rapidly  and  almost  completely  absorbed  with  moderate  bioavailability  of 
around 40%, due to a first-pass effect. Plasma protein binding was 60-70%. Kinetics was linear over a 
large range of doses without time effect. A gender effect was evidenced only in rats, with females being 
on  average  3-fold  more  exposed  than  males.  Ivabradine  and/or  its  metabolites  were  rapidly  and 
extensively distributed throughout the body. The most exposed tissue was the uveal tract, especially the 
pigmented  (melanin)  and  the  well-vascularised  structures  of  the  eye.  The  binding  of  ivabradine  and 
metabolite  S  18982  to  pigmented  structures  was  reversible,  but  took  a  long  time,  i.e.  many  weeks. 
Ivabradine  was  extensively  metabolised  by  oxidation  via  CYP450.  Ivabradine  was  eliminated  with  a 
main half-life of about 2 h in dogs and humans. 
Ivabradine distributed into amniotic fluid and was excreted in maternal milk of rats (see 4.3., 4.6. and 
5.3. in the SPC).  
Toxicology 
In the heart of rats, focal myocardial lesions were observed. These lesions were considered to be caused 
by  focal  hypoxia,  related  to  the  prolonged  and/or  exaggerated  pharmacological  effect  bradycardia  in 
normal animals, as seen with betablockers. In dogs, the ECG changes were considered an exaggerated 
pharmacological effect. The QT-interval was not prolonged, when corrected for heart rate reduction. 
transient  visual  symptoms  (phosphenes;  see  clinical  safety), 
As  a  consequence  of  clinical 
electroretinography  (ERG)  examinations  were  included  in  the  12-month  repeated  dose  study  in  dogs. 
Some  ERG  changes  were  revealed  at 6 and 12 months in the cone system at exposures similar to the 
expected human therapeutic exposure; these were reversed at one week after treatment cessation and at 
the  following  treatment-free  periods  (up  to  11  weeks).  In  the  rod  system,  dark  adaptation  was  only 
affected in the first few minutes. Shorter time intervals than 6 months were not evaluated. These ERG 
changes  seemed  to  be  related  to  a  reversible  pharmacological effect rather than structural toxicity for 
the  following  reasons:  (1)  ERG  changes  in  dogs  were  reversible,  (2)  no  changes  were  observed  by 
ophthalmoscopy,  histopathology and transmission electron microscopy in the 1-year dog study, (3) no 
relevant  ophthalmological  or  histopathologic  changes  were  observed  in  other  studies,  and  (4)  HCN 
channels, which play a role in the mechanism of action of ivabradine, are present in the retina as well as 
in the heart. This issue has been reflected in SPC (5.3). There was a consistent absence of toxic damage 
in any ocular structure in association with ivabradine throughout the animal safety programme. Melanin 
binding did not correlate with retinal function changes in dogs, as ERG changes rapidly reversed upon 
treatment cessation while significant levels of ivabradine were still present in the ocular structures.  The 
long-term  ocular  safety  of  patients  exposed  to  ivabradine  has  been  documented  in  the  development 
programme  up  to  one  year.  Additional  data  on  long-term  visual  safety  will  be  addressed  as  a  post-
marketing commitment.  
15/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infrequent thymus atrophy and/or decrease in lymphocyte counts were occasionally reported and were 
not associated with functional immunotoxicity. Possible changes in immune system   will be addressed 
as a post-marketing commitment.  
Cardiac teratogenicity in rats occurred at systemic exposure levels similar to those in patients receiving 
therapeutic  doses  of  ivabradine.  No  safety  margin  could  be  set  and  the  drug  is  thus  contraindicated 
during pregnancy and breast-feeding (4.3., 4.6. and 5.3. in the SPC). 
Genotoxicity or carcinogenicity studies revealed no clinically relevant changes. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Ivabradine  is  a  heart  rate  lowering  agent,  acting  by  reducing  the  rate  of  pacemaker  activity  in  the 
sinoatrial node, developed for the treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris.  
The efficacy and safety of ivabradine in patients with stable angina pectoris were investigated in clinical 
trials involving nearly 5000 patients, in which ivabradine was administered to more than 3500 patients 
and  healthy  volunteers.  The  main  efficacy  studies  in  patients  with  stable  angina  pectoris  with  a 
randomised,  double-blind  and  parallel-group  design  included  one  placebo-controlled,  dose-ranging 
study,  two  active-controlled  double-blind  non-inferiority  studies versus the standard therapies atenolol 
and amlodipine, and a double-blind study comparing ivabradine with placebo when both were given in 
combination with background therapy of amlodipine. In addition, long-term safety studies included a 1-
year  randomised  double-blind  study  in  comparison  with  atenolol,  a  1-year  randomised  double-blind 
study  comparing  two  ivabradine  doses,  and  a  1-year  open-label  extension  study  in  patients  from  two 
main efficacy studies. Further, one study was conducted in patients with coronary artery disease for the 
investigation  of  the  safety  of  high  doses  of  ivabradine.  Possible  drug  pharmacokinetic  and/or 
pharmacodynamic  interactions  were  investigated  in  22  specific  studies  in  healthy  volunteers  and 
patients.  A  few  additional  studies  were  ongoing  including  a  557-patient  5-year  open-label  extension 
study from the overall programme with the purpose of documenting the safety of the long-term use of 
ivabradine. 
According to the applicant, all clinical studies were conducted in accordance with the ICH Guideline for 
Good  Clinical  Practice,  with  local  regulatory  and  ethical  requirements,  and  with  the  Declaration  of 
Helsinki.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The  populations  enrolled  in  the  pharmacokinetic  studies  included  healthy  volunteers  (n=642  in  32 
studies),  patients  with  angina  pectoris  and  coronary  artery  disease  with  associated  diseases  (such  as 
diabetes,  asthma,  hepatic  insufficiency,  heart  failure,  renal  failure)  (n=3102  in  22  studies).  In  vitro 
studies using human material were performed in order to help the interpretation of pharmacokinetics and 
metabolic data of ivabradine. Furthermore, population pharmacokinetic meta-analyses were carried out. 
Most  pharmacokinetic  studies  used  validated  specific  HPLC  fluorescence  detection  assay  for  the 
simultaneous  determination  of ivabradine and its main  circulating active metabolite S 18982. In some 
studies a more sensitive LC-MS-MS assay (e.g. to quantify other metabolites of ivabradine) was used. 
An  additional  method involving solid-phase extraction, LC separation, and fluorescence detection was 
developed to differentiate between the R and S enantiomer of ivabradine. 
Throughout  the  clinical  development  of  ivabradine,  both  non-compartmental  and  compartmental  (a 
population approach using mixed effects model) approaches were used.  
16/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absorption  
The absolute bioavailability of ivabradine was around 40%. Absorption was almost complete (around 
90%).  Both  ivabradine  and  S  18982  (N-desmethyl  metabolite  of  ivabradine)  AUC  and  Cmax  values 
increased linearly with dose after single dose over the dose range of 0.5–24 mg and after multiple doses 
over the dose range of 2.5–32 mg twice daily. Peak plasma concentrations were reached 0.75-1.5 h after 
administration.  Steady  state  was  achieved  within  1  day,  and  no  unexpected  accumulation  occurred 
(twice  daily  dosing).  In  healthy  volunteers,  food  delayed  absorption  by  approximately  1  hour,  and 
increased plasma exposure by 20 to 30%.  
Distribution 
The  volume  of  distribution  was  about  100  L.  In  vitro  protein  binding  studies  using  human  plasma 
indicated that protein binding was 70% for ivabradine and 70-75% for S 18982. The maximum plasma 
concentration  following  chronic  administration  at  the  recommended  dose  of  5  mg  twice  daily  was  22 
ng/ml. The average plasma concentration was 10 ng/ml at steady-state. Ivabradine was distributed into 
semen to a negligible content (0.007% of the administered dose).  
Metabolism and excretion 
Ivabradine  was  metabolised  by  oxidation  involving  O-desmethylation,  N-dealkylation  (including  N-
desmethylation  and  cleavage),  and  hydroxylation.  Metabolism  of  ivabradine  occurred  via  CYP3A4 
only.  Ivabradine  had  a  low  affinity  for  CYP3A4.  Of  all  metabolites  only  the  N-desmethylated 
metabolite  had  sufficiently  high  plasma  concentrations  to  contribute  to  the  pharmacological  effect 
(exposure  about  40%  of  that  of  the  parent  compound);  the  metabolism  of  this  active  substance  also 
involved CYP3A4. The total clearance was 400 ml/min and the renal clearance 70 ml/min. Ivabradine 
pharmacokinetics was best described by a two compartmental model. The main elimination half-life of 
ivabradine was close to 2.0 h contributing to approximately 70% of the AUC and the effective half-life 
was  11  h.    The first  elimination  half-life  of  S  18982  was  close  to  2.0  h  and  the effective elimination 
half-life was 11 h. Accumulation was minimal. For both compounds, repeated oral dose data were well 
predictable from single dose data. 
All  radioactivity  in  faeces  and  urine  comprised  of  metabolites  with  only  trace  amounts  of  unchanged 
compound.  Elimination  of  metabolites  was  split  between  faeces  and  urine  (52  and 45% respectively), 
with essentially the entire dose recovered within 4 days, and greater than 90% of that in urine excreted 
within 24 hours. About 4% of an oral dose was excreted unchanged in urine; only 2.4-12% of the total 
radioactivity AUC accounted for by unchanged ivabradine.  
Special populations 
Population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  of  data  obtained  from  nine  clinical  studies,  involving  a  total  of 
1010 patients with coronary artery disease, receiving 2.5-20 mg ivabradine b.i.d., revealed that the only 
significant covariates were age and gender. Exposure for the same dose was 28% higher in females than 
males. Further analyses have shown that pharmacokinetics (AUC and Cmax) were comparable for >65, 
>70 and >75 year old patient groups. Weight had no influence on pharmacokinetics. 
In terms of plasma exposure to ivabradine and metabolites, no relevant difference was observed between 
patients  with  chronic  renal  insufficiency  and  creatinine  clearance  above  15  mL/min  and  the  overall 
population. No data were available in patients with creatinine clearance below 15 mL/min, and therefore 
ivabradine should be used with precaution in this population (this is reflected in SPC in 4.2 and 4.4). 
A study in 12 subjects with mild to moderate hepatic disease (alcoholic cirrhosis of the liver) revealed 
lower  total  clearance  in  these  patients  than  in  healthy  subjects  (24  L/h  versus  34  L/h),  while  renal 
clearance  was  increased  because  of  the  increased  free  fraction  of  ivabradine  in  subjects  with  liver 
impairment. Further, when elevated transaminases (ALT or AST levels >1.5 times normal value) were 
17/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
used  to  select  patients  with  hepatic  disorders  (n=129),  no  relevant difference in plasma  exposure was 
observed  between  patients  with  elevated  transaminases  and  the  overall  population;  in  patients  with 
hepatic insufficiency as defined by Child Pugh score up to 7 unbound AUC of ivabradine and the main 
active  metabolite  were  about  20%  higher  than  in  subjects  with  normal  hepatic  function.  No  data  in 
patients  with  severe  hepatic  impairment,  and  only  limited  data  in  patients  with  moderate  hepatic 
impairment  with  Child  Pugh  score  >7  were  available.  Therefore,  ivabradine  is  contra-indicated  in 
patients with severe hepatic failure. (These findings are reflected in SPC in 4.2-4.4).  
102  patients  with  mild to moderate heart failure were enrolled in the clinical studies in the ivabradine 
group. There was no relevant difference in plasma exposure between patients with heart failure and the 
overall population. Also diabetes did not have any effect on the pharmacokinetics of ivabradine.  
Interactions 
In vitro 
Pharmacokinetic interactions for ivabradine were extensively studied in in vitro studies. Investigations 
in hepatic microsomal and hepatocyte systems demonstrated that metabolism of ivabradine occurred via 
CYP3A4 only.  
As a consequence, the potential for in vitro drug-drug interactions was investigated using human liver 
microsomes incubated with ivabradine (10 µM) and therapeutic agents likely to be co-administered with 
ivabradine, or substrates and/or inhibitors of CYP3A4.  
More than 50 drugs were tested, including alfentanil, alprazolam, amiodarone, amlodipine, cyclosporin 
A,  dexamethasone,  diazepam,  digitoxin,  diltiazem,  erythromycin,  ethynil  estradiol,  fluoxetine, 
josamycin,  ketoconazole,  losartan,  lovastatin,  midazolam,  nefazodone,  nifedipine,  paracetamol, 
quinidine,  simvastatin,  verapamil  and  warfarin.  Among  the  tested  drugs  an  in  vitro  interaction  was 
observed 
josamycin,  nefazodone,  quinidine,  cyclosporin  A,  erythromycin, 
for  ketoconazole, 
clarithromycin, verapamil,  and diltiazem. 
Ivabradine did not inhibit or induce CYP3A4 nor other isoenzymes of P450 in a relevant magnitude. 
In vivo 
Pharmacokinetic interactions for ivabradine were studied in vivo in 15 phase I and 4 phase II studies, in 
which  the  co-administered  CYP3A4  substrates/inhibitors  could  be  classified  as:  potent,  moderate  or 
weak. In addition, some pharmacokinetic data were collected in phase III trials. 
As standard potent inhibitors of CYP3A4, ketoconazole 200 mg once daily for 4 days, and josamycin, 
1000 mg twice daily for 4 days led to a 7- 8-fold increase in ivabradine plasma AUC and a 3- 4- fold 
increase  in  ivabradine  Cmax  following  single  oral  administration  of  ivabradine  (10  mg).  Exposure  to 
ivabradine's active metabolite, S 18982, was moderately increased (AUC ratio with/without: 1.1 to 1.9). 
Similar  results  were  obtained  following  repeated  co-administration  of  ivabradine  and  ketoconazole. 
These findings are reflected in sections 4.3 and 4.5 of the SPC. 
Verapamil,  120  mg  twice  daily  and  diltiazem,  120  mg  twice  daily  are  moderate  CYP3A4  inhibitors.  
Co-administration  of  these  drugs  caused  a  2.1-  3.1-fold  increase  and  a  1.9-  2.4-fold  increase  of 
ivabradine plasma AUC and Cmax, respectively, in healthy volunteers. Exposure to S 18982 was also 
increased  (AUC:  1.5-  and  1.2-fold  increase  for  verapamil  and  diltiazem,  respectively).  In  patients, 
diltiazem  caused a ≈3-fold increase for ivabradine plasma AUC and Cmax, and a 1.5- and a 2.3-fold 
increase  for  S  18982  AUC  and  Cmax,  respectively.  Moderate  CYP3A4 inhibition by grapefruit juice 
caused  2-fold increase in plasma AUC of ivabradine. These findings are reflected in section 4.5 of the 
SPC. 
18/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lacidipine 4 mg once a day, amiodarone 200 mg once a day, simvastatin 20 mg once a day, sildenafil 
50  and  100  mg  once  a  day,  omeprazole  40  mg  once  a  day  and  lansoprazole  60  mg  once  a  day  were 
studied as weak inhibitors and amlodipine 10 mg once a day and warfarin 2-5 mg once a day as a non-
inhibitor of CYP3A4. With the exception of lacidipine, which caused a very slight 1.2-fold increase in 
ivabradine  plasma  AUC,  no  modification  of  ivabradine  and  S18982  AUC  was  noted  during  the  co-
administration  of  ivabradine  with  these  drugs.  Combination  of  ivabradine  10  mg  twice  daily  with  St 
John’s wort (CYP3A4 inducer) reduced ivabradine AUC by half. These findings are reflected in section 
4.5 of the SPC. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacology 
Heart rate lowering effect 
The heart rate reduction was the main pharmacodynamic effect of ivabradine. This was studied in all 
clinical studies. 
In healthy volunteers, the reduction of maximum heart rate at exercise was between 10 to 15% and was 
sustained  between  1  and  12  h.  The  minimal  effective  dose  was  2-4  mg  and  substantial  incremental 
reductions in HR were observed with doses up to 16 mg. The relationship between plasma concentration 
and heart rate decreasing effect plateaued at doses exceeding 10 mg bid.  
In  patients  with  stable  angina  pectoris,  a  statistically  significant  dose-dependent  absolute  decrease  in 
heart  rate  was  present  with  ivabradine  2.5,  5  and  10  mg  b.i.d.  relative  to  placebo,  both  at peak  and 
trough during rest and exercise (study CL2-009). Results on ivabradine 7.5 mg b.i.d. from studies CL3-
017/018/023 in patients with angina pectoris subsequently showed the expected intermediate heart rate 
reduction  relative  to  the  results  obtained  with  5  and  10  mg  b.i.d.  The  final  PK/PD  model  that  used 
pooled data from 1236 patients with oral doses ranging between 2.5 and 20 mg b.i.d., showed that the 
heart rate reduction levels off in a dose range of 10-20 mg b.i.d., while substantial incremental relative 
heart rate reductions were seen when the dosage was increased with intervals of 2.5 mg in a lower dose 
range of 2.5-10 mg b.i.d. Studies CL2-009 and CL3-019/21/23 in patients with stable angina showed 
that  the  maximal  decrease  in  heart  rate  was  achieved  within  2-4 weeks after initiation of  therapy and 
indicated no development of pharmacological tolerance in the sinoatrial node. Data on the HR lowering 
below. 
effect 
ivabradine 
patients 
Table 
given 
are 
of 
in 
in 
3 
Table 3: Mean reduction in heart rate at rest and during exercise at peak and trough of drug activity in 
phase II and III clinical trials 
19/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study and conditions 
n 
Heart rate reduction (mean ± SD, bpm) 
Ivabradine (mg b.i.d.) 
Placebo 
2.5 
5 
7.5 
CL2-047 
Rest  Peak 
ETT  Peak 
Peak 
51 
51 
256  -2.8 ± 12.7  6.5 ± 11.0*  12.0 ± 13.1* 
20 
10 
15 
20.7 ± 12.6  25.6 ± 13.8  30.6 ± 11.9 
21.0 ± 15.5  25.8 ± 12.9  29.2 ± 14.5 
18.7 ± 10.4* 
Trough  257  -0.4 ± 10.9 
4.5 ± 
10.6* 
9.5 ± 
12.0* 
14.2 ± 10.0* 
256  -3.7 ± 9.8  6.5 ± 11.8*  11.0 ± 11.5* 
5.5 ± 9.8* 
CL2-009 
CL3-017 
CL3-018 
Rest 
ETT 
Rest 
ETT 
Rest 
ETT 
Peak 
Trough  257  -1.6 ± 9.1 
444 
Peak 
Trough  449 
444 
Peak 
Trough  449 
513  1.8 ± 13.1 
Peak 
Trough  517  5.5 ± 12.0 
511  -1.4 ± 15.3 
Peak 
Trough  514  0.1 ± 13.7 
CL3-023 
Rest  Trough  637 
ETT  Trough  636 
17.7 ± 11.6* 
13.4 ± 10.5* 
8.3 ± 8.9* 
10.3 ± 12.3  13.5 ± 12.4  16.1 ± 14.6 
14.4 ± 
11.9 
15.3 ± 13.2 
9.0 ± 15.0  12.1 ± 15.9 
8.0 ± 13.1  10.6 ± 14.2 
10.2 ± 
11.2 
7.5 ± 13.3 
7.0 ± 12.6 
12.2 ± 12.0*  14.7 ± 12.5* 
12.1 ± 11.6*  12.5 ± 11.3* 
10.4 ± 16.0*  12.1 ± 14.6* 
10.2 ± 15.0*  10.4 ± 12.8* 
11.2 ± 
12.1 
13.1 ± 
14.1 
13.0 ± 13.3 
14.8 ± 14.1 
Data represent the  mean  reduction in HR (non-placebo-corrected) between baseline and the end of the study period per dose. Resting HR 
data  were acquired prior to commencement of the ETT. n: sum of the numbers of patients in each row. For CL3-017 (with forced titration 
from 5 mg to 7.5 mg or 10 mg b.i.d.), n represents the total of the 7.5 mg and 10 mg b.i.d. treatment groups. *: Significantly different from 
placebo group (CL2-009, Dunnett’s test; CL3-018, Student’s t-test). ETTs performed on treadmill in CL2-047, CL3-017 and CL3-018 and on 
bicycle in CL2-009 and CL3-023; HR reduction may thus not be directly comparable among studies. 
Effect on rate-pressure product 
The effects on blood pressure of ivabradine were minor and not clinically significant. Its effect on rate 
pressure  product  (RPP;  heart  rate  x  systolic  pressure;  “surrogate  measure  of  myocardial  oxygen 
consumption”) was largely reflective of its effect on heart rate. Early phase I studies showed evidence of 
a dose-dependent relationship between ivabradine and RPP at peak exercise. 
In  patients  a  clear  dose  dependent  effect  of  ivabradine  on  the  change  in  RPP  both  during  rest  and 
exercise was seen. The difference versus placebo was consistently statistically significant at dosages 
 5 
mg b.i.d. at peak and trough of drug activity. (See the Table 4 below) 
≥
Table 4: Mean reduction in RPP at rest and at exercise at peak and at trough of drug activity in phase II 
and III efficacy trials 
Study and conditions 
n 
Reduction in rate-pressure product 
(mean ± sd, bpm·mm Hg) 
Ivabradine (mg b.i.d.) 
Placebo 
2.5 
5 
Rest 
CL2-009 
Exercise 
CL3-017 Rest 
Trough 
Peak 
Trough 
Peak 
Trough 
257  -178 ± 2218  509 ± 1697  1366 ± 1950*
254  -167 ± 1952  740 ± 1696*  1740 ± 2059*
252  -266 ± 3074  737 ± 2950  1142 ± 3354*
251  -765 ± 3389  931 ± 3730*  1490 ± 3774*
444 
- 
7.5 
- 
- 
- 
- 
10 
1909 ± 1688* 
2621 ± 1672* 
1543 ± 3526* 
2148 ± 3057* 
1992 ± 2310 
1328 ± 2007  1918 ± 2191 
20/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rest 
Exercise 
Peak 
Trough 
Peak 
Trough 
Peak 
Trough 
Peak 
Rest 
Trough 
Exercise  Trough 
Exercise 
CL3-018 
CL3-023 
- 
- 
- 
437 
384 
388 
516  796 ± 2157 
512  468 ± 2195 
494  301 ± 3727 
493  209 ± 4051 
637 
632 
- 
- 
1653 ± 2138  2068 ± 2297 
894 ± 3925 
785 ± 3420 
882 ± 4189 
704 ± 3646 
1548 ± 1805* 1627 ± 1864* 
1845 ± 1952* 2113 ± 2087* 
1645 ± 3970* 1320 ± 3644* 
1889 ± 3928* 1784 ± 3889* 
1434 ± 2022 
2138 ± 3748 
- 
- 
2335 ± 2479 
1349 ± 3602 
1429 ± 4212 
- 
- 
1668 ± 2207 
2174 ± 4110 
Data (mean ± SD) represent the mean reduction in rate-pressure product (non-placebo-corrected) between baseline and the end of the study 
period (CL2-009: 14 days; CL3-017: 5 mg b.i.d., 1 month; 7.5 and 10 mg b.i.d. , 4 months (including 1 month on 5 mg b.i.d.); CL3-018: 3 
months; CL3-023: 3 months). “n” represents the sum of the numbers of patients in each row. For CL3-017 (which involved forced titration 
from 5 mg to 7.5 mg or 10 mg b.i.d.) this number represents the total number of patients in the 7.5 mg and 10 mg b.i.d. treatment groups 
only. * Significantly different from placebo group (CL2-009, Dunnett’s test; CL3-018, Student’s t-test). 
Effect on cardiac function and haemodynamics 
The effects of ivabradine on cardiac and haemodynamic function were mainly assessed in three phase I 
studies  and  two  phase  II  studies.  These  studies  showed  no  clinically  relevant  effect  of  ivabradine  on 
cardiac  output  either  at  rest,  after  standing  (tilt  test),  or  at  exercise,  on  stroke  volume,  or  on  total 
peripheral resistance.   
In  53  patients  with  congestive  heart  failure  NYHA  class  II  with  a  left  ventricular  ejection  fraction 
between  30  and  45%  and  with  a  history  of coronary artery disease, ejection fraction did not decrease 
while  a  decrease  of  left  ventricular  systolic  and  diastolic  volumes  was  observed  following  repeated 
administration of ivabradine (10 mg b.i.d.). 
Electrophysiological effects 
Study CL1-007 (a double-blind placebo-controlled study with treatments randomised in a Latin square 
design:  successive  administrations  of  3  single  oral  doses  of  ivabradine  (10  mg,  20  mg,  30  mg)  and 
placebo:  was  carried  out  in  12  healthy  volunteers  using  quantitative  electrocardiography.  This  study 
found no evidence of a deleterious effect of ivabradine on sinus node function, and no effect of treatment 
on P wave duration, PQ interval, and QRS duration. Heart rate, RR interval, QT interval, and QTcB 
were  the  only  parameters  that  showed  a  significant  effect  of  ivabradine  treatment:  heart  rate  was 
lowered,  RR  interval  increased,  uncorrected  QT  increased,  and  QTcB  (QT  corrected  according  to 
Bazett’s formula) decreased.  
The  studies  CL2-010/014/015  used  invasive  electrophysiological  testing:  in  these  studies  a  single 
intravenous dose of ivabradine (0.2 mg/kg) was administered to a total of 35 subjects with a history of 
cardiac  pathology,  all  of  whom  required  an  electrophysiological study or treatment by radiofrequency 
catheter ablation, but who had a normal or near-normal baseline electrophysiological examination at the 
time  of  the  study.  The  administration  of  ivabradine  resulted  in  a  statistically  significantly  increased 
corrected  sinus  node  recovery  time  (SNRTc)  of  87-120  ms  and  118-123  ms,  after  30  and  60  min, 
respectively. The increase in sinoatrial conduction time (SACT) ranged from 12 to 20 ms after 30 and 
60 minutes, but was never statistically significant.  
Other effects 
The  anti-arrhythmic  effects  of  ivabradine  were  investigated  in  two  phase  II  studies  carried  out  in 
patients  with  atrial  fibrillation  (AF).  The  efficacy  of  a  single  intravenous  infusion  of  ivabradine  (0.2 
mg/kg,  administered  over  1  hour)  on  either  time  to  restoration  of  sinus  rhythm  or  20%  reduction  in 
ventricular  rate  in  patients  suffering  from  AF  after  cardiac  surgery  was  studied.  The  second  study 
investigated the efficacy of 10 mg ivabradine b.i.d. in preventing paroxysmal AF. These studies did not 
show any effect of ivabradine on the treatment of post-surgical AF, or on the prevention of paroxysmal 
AF.  There  is  no  evidence  of  risk  of  (excessive)  bradycardia  on  return  to  sinus  rhythm  when 
21/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pharmacological cardioversion is initiated in patient treated with ivabradine. However, in the absence of 
extensive  data,  non-urgent  DC-cardioversion  should  be  considered  24  hours  after  the  last  dose  of 
ivabradine. 
Neurohumoral reaction to HR lowering effect of a single 30 mg dose was also investigated. Ivabradine 
had  no  effect  on  plasma  levels  of  adrenalin  and  noradrenalin  at  rest,  and  did not influence the rise in 
plasma levels of these hormones that normally occurs after standing (tilt test) or during exercise.  
Pharmacodynamic drug-drug interactions 
See also Clinical aspects/ Pharmacokinetics/ Interactions/ In vivo. 
A  large  number  of  interaction  studies  were  conducted  with  ivabradine  10  mg  b.i.d.  The  co-
administration  of  ivabradine  and  potent  inhibitors  of  CYP3A4  led  to  additional  heart  rate  reductions 
compared to ivabradine monotherapy at rest and a contraindication has now been included in the SPC 
(4.3). The co-administration of ivabradine and heart rate lowering agents that are moderate inhibitors of 
ivabradine  metabolism such as diltiazem and verapamil showed a somewhat more than additive effect 
on heart rate.  
In  an  interaction  study  in  healthy  volunteers,  no  pharmacokinetic  interaction  with  atenolol  was 
observed. However, concomitant administration of ivabradine (10 mg b.i.d.) with atenolol (50 mg o.d.) 
resulted in an additive HR lowering effect both at rest and during exercise. Concomitant administration 
of ivabradine in patients already treated by amiodarone did not result in a PK interaction and showed 
that the reduction in heart rate after co-administration was in the expected range (12 to 15 bpm) when 
results  are  compared  to  those  obtained  on  ivabradine  monotherapy  in  stable  CAD  patients.  No 
pharmacokinetic or -dynamic interaction was observed when ivabradine and digoxin were administered 
concomitantly. 
No  clinically  significant  pharmacodynamic  interaction  was  observed  when  ivabradine  was  given 
concomitantly  with  imipramine  or  thioridazine.  In  a  study  using  repeated  doses  of  both  aspirin  and 
ivabradine, no significant effect on the platelet anti-aggregant properties of aspirin were reported.  
In two studies, no QTc prolonging effect was observed when ivabradine was used as monotherapy or 
co-administered with amiodarone, imipramine or thioridazine. Similarly, QT data from co-
administration studies with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors using three correction methods (Bazett’s, 
Fridericia’s and a population-derived correction) showed no evidence for a QTc prolonging effect of 
ivabradine at supratherapeutic plasma levels, especially not at the peak of drug activity. 
In 12 patients with stable coronary artery disease with no angina pectoris at rest, the concomitant use of 
sildenafil 50 to 100 mg once daily did not alter heart rate -decreasing effect of ivabradine 10 mg twice 
daily during this 10-day study. 
No  long-term  efficacy  and  safety  data  on  the  combination  of  ivabradine  with  beta-blockers  were 
available.  In  the  phase  III  clinical  trials  the  following  drugs  were  not  restricted  and  therefore  were 
routinely combined with ivabradine with no evidence of safety concerns: angiotensin converting enzyme 
inhibitors,  angiotensin  II  antagonists,  diuretics,  dihydropyridine  calcium  channel  blockers,  short  and 
long  acting  nitrates,  HMG  CoA  reductase  inhibitors,  fibrates,  proton  pump  inhibitors,  oral 
antidiabetics, aspirin and other anti-platelet agents. 
Clinical efficacy  
The anti-anginal and anti-ischaemic efficacy of repeated oral doses of ivabradine was evaluated using 
standardised  exercise  tolerance  tests  (ETT)  in  four  efficacy  studies  in  patients  with  chronic  stable 
angina  pectoris  (see  the Table  5  below).  Additionally,  the  efficacy  of ivabradine in preventing angina 
22/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
symptoms was also evaluated in three long-term (1-year) safety studies. A 5-year open-label extension 
safety study (CL3-044) was on-going at the time of submission.  
The clinical phase II-III development was designed and conducted in accordance with available CHMP 
guidance and Scientific Advice. 
Table  5:    Main efficacy studies 
Study No 
Report No 
CL2-006 
Type of study 
Study design 
Phase II 
Randomised, placebo-
controlled, parallel group, 
dose ranging 
Phase II 
Randomised, placebo-
controlled, parallel group, 
dose ranging, 2 weeks 
Open-label period, 2 or 
3months 
Randomised, placebo-
controlled, parallel group, 
run-out, 1 week 
Phase III 
Randomised, double-blind, 
controlled, parallel group, 
non-inferiority study versus 
atenolol, 4 months 
Phase III 
Randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, parallel 
group, superiority study on 
top of amlodipine, 3 
months 
Phase III 
Randomised, double-blind, 
controlled, parallel group, 
non inferiority study versus 
amlodipine, 3 months 
Test product(s) 
Dose regimen and route 
Single oral doses ivabradine 5, 10, 15 or 
20 mg or Placebo 
Repeated oral doses ivabradine 2.5, 5 or 
10 mg b.i.d. or Placebo 
Repeated oral doses ivabradine 10 mg 
b.i.d. 
Repeated oral doses ivabradine10 mg 
b.i.d. or Placebo 
Repeated oral doses: ivabradine 5 mg 
b.i.d. then 7.5 or 10 mg b.i.d. or atenolol 
50 mg o.d. then 100 mg o.d. 
Run out period : Placebo or atenolol 50 
mg o.d. then 25 mg o.d. 
Repeated oral doses :ivabradine 5 or 7.5 
mg b.i.d. and amlodipine 10 mg o.d. or 
Placebo and amlodipine 10 mg o.d. 
Repeated oral doses : 
Ivabradine 7.5 or 10 mg b.i.d. or 
amlodipine 10 mg o.d. 
Included patients 
55 patients: 44 
ivabradine (11 
patients each dose) 
and 11  
360 patients: 
90 ivabradine 2.5 mg, 
91 ivabradine 5 mg, 
88 ivabradine 10 mg, 
91 placebo 
173 patients 
157 patients: 
77 ivabradine, 
80 placebo 
939 patients: 
315 ivabradine 7.5 
mg 317 ivabradine 10 
mg 
307 atenolol 
728 patients: 
232 ivabradine 5 mg 
244 ivabradine 7.5 
mg 
252 placebo 
1195 patients: 
400 ivabradine 7.5 
mg 391 ivabradine 10 
mg 
404 amlodipine 
CL2-009 
CL3-017 
CL3-018 
CL3-023 
Methods 
Study participants  
Across the dose-finding and main efficacy studies the following inclusion and exclusion criteria were 
used:  
Selection criteria 
– Male or female of non-childbearing potential (sterile, hysterectomised, or menopausal for more than 2 
years). 
– 18 years ≤ age ≤ 75 years. 
– Written informed consent. 
–  History of chronic effort angina pectoris for at least 3 months prior to inclusion. (Effort angina was 
defined as typical or atypical angina pain associated with physical activity, lasting several minutes and 
disappearing with cessation of physical activity and/or administration of short-acting nitrates); 
– Severity: no angina at rest. 
–  Clinical  stability:  no  significant  change  in  frequency,  severity or  triggering  activity  within  1  month 
preceding  inclusion,  and  no  change  in  nitrates  consumption.  Clinical  stability  was  assessed  by  direct 
questioning of the patient. 
– Documented coronary artery disease: 
23/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
a history of myocardial infarction (Q wave and/or cardiac enzyme elevation) (≥3 months before 
inclusion) or; 
a coronary angioplasty (≥ 6 months before inclusion) or; 
a bypass graft (≥ 3 months before inclusion) or; 
a  coronary  angiography  showing  a  significant  stenosis  (≥  50%  stenosis  in  the  proximal  two 
third  of  at  least  one  of  the  major  coronary  arteries),  the  stenosis  being  read  as  the  relative 
diameter reduction or; 
a  positive  scintigraphic  test showing exercise-induced reversible ischaemia in patients without 
left bundle branch block or; 
a positive stress echocardiography showing regional wall motion abnormalities with failure of 
the normal rise in left ventricular ejection fraction with exercise. 
–  Analysable  ST  segment  on  12-lead  ECG:  morphology  of  ST  segment  within  normal  limits,  no 
electrocardiographic  state  that  precluded  ST  segment  interpretation  at  rest  or  during  exercise,  sinus 
rhythm 
– Positive ETT: at selection (end of wash-out period). Positivity is defined below. 
Inclusion criteria 
– At the end of the run-in period, patients were required to have a second qualifying ETT that met both 
of the following criteria: 
-  Positivity criteria: occurrence of limiting angina and significant ST segment depression, defined 
as ST segment  depression of at least 1 mm compared to the value at rest, horizontal or down 
sloping  and  persisting  for  at  least  0.08  seconds  after  J-point,  on  at  least  three  consecutive 
complexes.  Both  events  should  occur  between  3  and  12  minutes  following  initiation  of  the 
exercise test. If the ETT was interrupted  before reaching positivity for any reason, the patient 
will not be included. 
-  Stability  criteria:  the  stability  of  the  ETT  criteria  was  assessed  between  the  selection  and 
inclusion  visits  on  the  parameter  “time  to  1 mm  ST  segment  depression”  recorded  at  each 
minute. The values have to be within ± 20% or ± 1 min of each other. If stability could not be 
demonstrated on the second ETT, a third pre-treatment ETT could be performed after at least 
24 h.  The  patient  should  then  continue  to  take  placebo  until  this  third  test  is  completed.  The 
patient could be included if stability criteria could be verified between any two of the three ETT 
performed. 
–  Compliance  to  placebo:  the  calculated  compliance  should  be  ≥  80%  and  ≤  130%.  In  addition,  the 
patient  should  not  have  missed  more than one full daily dose (i.e., the patient should not have missed 
four or more consecutive capsules). 
Non-selection and non-inclusion criteria 
Patients with one of the following criteria could not be included in the study: 
–   Recent acute myocardial infarction, coronary bypass surgery (less than 3 months before inclusion) 
or coronary angioplasty (less than 6 months before inclusion). 
–   Unstable angina, Prinzmetal angina or microvascular angina. 
–   Known high-grade left main coronary artery disease that has not been surgically bypassed or 
  mechanically improved. 
–   Patient who cannot perform exercise tests 
–   Clinically significant heart disease other than coronary artery disease 
–   Congestive heart failure stage III or IV NYHA. 
–   Symptomatic hypotension. 
–   Uncontrolled hypertension (systolic blood pressure at rest > 180 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure 
at rest > 100 mmHg). 
–   Atrial fibrillation, flutter, pacemaker or cardioverter-defibrillator implantation. 
–   ECG abnormalities that would confound ETT interpretation 
–   Hepatic disorders (ALT > 3 times normal value), renal failure (serum creatinine level > 
180 µmol/l). 
24/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
–   Electrolyte disorders 
–   Anaemia (haemoglobin < 100 g/l). 
–   Thyroid disorders (unless stable and controlled by thyroxin treatment for at least 3 months). 
–   Any treatment with unauthorised concomitant medication that could not be interrupted for the 
duration of the study 
–   Treatment with bepridil within 7 days prior to selection. 
–   Treatment with amiodarone within 3 months prior to selection. 
–   Contra-indication to ivabradine: 
- 
- 
2nd and 3rd degree atrioventricular block, 
resting bradycardia with heart rate < 50 bpm or sick sinus syndrome. 
–   Severe disease likely to interfere with the study in the investigator’s judgement. 
–   Known carrier of HBs antigen, HIV or HCV antibodies (with some exceptions)  
–   History of severe psychiatric or behavioural disorders likely to interfere with the study 
–   History of serious abnormal drug reaction. 
–   Use of investigational drug within 30 days of pre-selection, or concurrent therapy with an 
investigational drug(s).  
Study design 
In all the efficacy studies, efficacy was evaluated primarily by standardised ETT using either bicycle or 
treadmill ergometry. Although there were some variations among studies, the basic study design was as 
follows: 
-  Pre-selected  patients  underwent  a  2-7-day  “run-in”  period  on  placebo  during  which  previous 
anti-anginal medication was discontinued.  
-  At the end of the “wash-out” period, at the selection visit, patients performed a first ETT. 
-  This was followed by a 1-week, single-blind “run-in” period on placebo, at the end of which, at 
- 
the inclusion visit, a second ETT was performed. 
Included  patients  were  then  randomised  to  the  various  treatment  groups,  and  treatment  was 
administered in double-blind fashion. 
-  At the end of the double-blind treatment period, patients performed an ETT at the trough (at the 
end  of  the  dosing  interval)  and,  in  most  studies,  at  the  peak  (~4  h  after  dosing)  of  the  drug 
activity. 
Study treatments 
See table “Main efficacy studies” above. 
In  the  main  efficacy  studies  concomitant  anti-anginal  medication  was  withdrawn  during  the  run-in 
period  and  not  permitted  throughout  the  study;  only  short-acting  nitrates  were  permitted  as  rescue 
medication. Drugs that could interfere with the interpretation of ST segment changes (including class I 
antiarrhythmic  agents,  digitalis,  monoamine  oxidase  inhibitors)  were  also  not  permitted,  similarly  to 
agents with known or suspected pharmacokinetic/ pharmacodynamic interaction with ivabradine. Other 
medications  such  as  angiotensin  converting  enzyme  inhibitors,  angiotensin  II  antagonists,  diuretics, 
short  acting  nitrates,  HMG  CoA  reductase  inhibitors,  fibrates,  proton  pump  inhibitors,  oral 
antidiabetics, aspirin and other anti-platelet agents could be continued.  
Study objectives 
See under “Results” for each study. 
Outcomes and endpoints 
According  to  the  CHMP  guideline,  the  primary  anti-anginal  efficacy  end-point  was  total  exercise 
duration  (TED)  in  phase  III  efficacy  studies,  time  to  limiting  angina  (TLA)  and  time  to  1  mm  ST 
segment  depression  (TST)  in  the  phase  IIb  dose-ranging  study.  Time  to  angina  onset  (TAO),  time  to 
limiting angina (TLA) and time to 1 mm ST segment depression (TST) were also measured. The main 
analysis was always performed on data gathered during ETT performed at the trough of drug activity 
25/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
but data were also gathered during ETT performed at the peak of drug activity. Also the occurrence of 
anginal pain and the concomitant use of short-acting nitrates were documented as secondary endpoints.  
Sample size 
The  number  of  patients  required  in  each  study  was  calculated  to  achieve  a  significant  result  for  the 
primary efficacy criterion with a power of at least 95% (80% for the phase IIb study).  
Procedures for randomisation and blinding 
The  randomisation  was  non-adaptive,  non-centralised  and  without  stratification;  it  was  balanced 
between  treatment  groups  and  performed  using  permutation  blocks  with  a  fixed  size  of  therapeutic 
units. 
For blinding purposes, the different doses of ivabradine, comparator drugs, or placebo were supplied as 
units  of  identical  weight,  appearance,  and  taste;  packaging  and  labelling  were  also  identical  for  all 
blinded  treatments.  Central  reading  of  ETT  data  was  performed  retrospectively  by  cardiologists  who 
were independent of the study recruitment and who were blind to the treatment allocation, concomitant 
treatments, past medical history, selection/inclusion/non-inclusion criteria and investigators’ evaluation 
of ETT parameters. In studies CL3-018 and CL3-023 comparison of ETT data from before and after 
randomisation was prevented.  
Statistical methods 
In  the  dose-ranging  study  CL2-009  two  primary  efficacy  criteria  were  specified,  i.e.  time  to  limiting 
angina  and  time  to  1  mm  ST  segment  depression;  treatment  groups  were  compared  using  a  one-way 
analysis  of  variance,  followed  by  pairwise  comparisons  versus placebo using Dunnett’s procedure. In 
the phase III efficacy studies the primary efficacy criterion was total exercise test duration; comparisons 
between each ivabradine dose and the reference were performed using a one-sided Student’s test based 
on  the  overall  general  linear  model  (least-squares  norm)  with  baseline  as  covariate  and  country  as  a 
random factor. In the phase III efficacy studies, each ivabradine dose was compared with the reference 
using a hierarchical stepwise procedure. 
Results 
Study Participants  
Patient demographics and characteristics at baseline in the main efficacy studies are given in the Table 6 
below. The patient population was sufficiently representative of the target population with chronic 
stable angina pectoris. 
26/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6: Patient demographics and characteristics at baseline in main efficacy studies, randomized sets 
Age (years) 
Age range (years) 
Age ≥65 years (%) 
Male (%) 
Ethnicity (%) 
Caucasian 
Asian 
Black 
Other 
Supine SBP (mmHg) 
Supine DBP (mmHg) 
Supine HR (bpm) 
Disease duration (months) 
Angina gradea (%) 
Grade I 
Grade II 
Grade III 
Grade IV 
Frequency of angina attacksb 
(attacks/week) 
Previous MI (%) 
Previous CABG (%) 
Previous PTCA (%) 
Medical history 
Hypertension (%) 
Diabetes (%) 
Hyperlipidaemia (%) 
Obesity (%) BMI>30Kg/m2 
Previous anti-anginal 
medication (%) 
Organic nitrates 
β-blockers 
CCBs 
CL2-006 
N = 55 
56.4 ± 8.0 
40 – 72 
N/A 
100 
100 
0 
0 
0 
134.3 ± 15.6 
83.8 ± 7.5 
63.5 ± 9.7 
N/A 
CL2-009 
N = 360 
58.5 ± 9.2 
35 – 86 
28.6 
89.7 
99.4 
0.6 
0 
0 
133.7 ± 16.3 
81.3 ± 8.2 
69.7 ± 10.3 
68.1 ± 63.9 
CL3-017 
N = 939 
61.2 ± 8.5 
33 – 79 
38.9 
85.0 
81.9 
17.5 
0.3 
0.3 
136.2 ± 16.9 
81.1 ± 9.1 
74.7 ± 11.2 
79.7 ± 74.0 
CL3-018 
N = 728 
60.4 ± 8.0 
39 – 80 
32.8 
80.8 
96.4 
0.4 
0.3 
2.9 
132.4 ± 14.0 
80.5 ± 7.4 
76.5 ± 11.2 
82.2 ± 73.9 
CL3-023 
N = 1195 
59.7 ± 8.9 
33 – 83 
30.7 
86.5 
99.9 
0 
0 
0.1 
133.2 ± 16.3 
81.5 ± 8.1 
73.0 ± 11.6 
71.3 ± 68.6 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
54.6 
9.1 
7.3 
56.4 
1.8 
0 
N/A 
96.4 
58.2 
52.7 
17.8 
66.4 
15.8 
0 
20.7 
70.5 
8.8 
0 
9.3 
69.1 
21.6 
0 
14.2 
67.4 
18.4 
0 
5.3 ± 7.9 
3.39 ± 9.29 
3.13 ± 5.21 
5.11 ± 7.68 
36.7 
16.4 
18.3 
60.7 
16.1 
40.3 
18.3 
68.6 
49.7 
30.3 
53.9 
18.6 
19.8 
52.6 
21.2 
57.2 
22.2 
85.3 
62.8 
26.8 
66.8 
16.6 
11.7 
69.6 
23.8 
56.9 
27.3 
89.1 
58.9 
28.3 
44.0 
14.1 
11.5 
59.1 
12.6 
44.2 
17.7 
90.0 
60.8 
19.7 
a Canadian Cardiovascular Society Functional Classification 
b During run-in period 
CABG, coronary artery bypass grafting; CCB, calcium-channel blocker; DBP, diastolic blood pressure; MI, myocardial infarction; N/A, 
data not available; PTCA, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty; SBP, systolic blood pressure. 
Dose response studies 
Study CL2-006: Single-administration phase IIa dose-ranging study. Dose ranging evaluation of the 
safety and efficacy of 4 single oral doses of S-16257-2 (5 mg – 10 mg – 15 mg – 20 mg) and placebo 
in 50 hospitalised patients with chronic stable angina pectoris.  
The objective of this study was to determine the safety and efficacy of 4 single oral doses of ivabradine 
compared to placeco in stable effort angina. The study was a randomized, controlled, double-blind, five 
way, parallel group trial.  Fifty-five male patients presenting myocardial ischemia on exercise test were 
included into the study. The efficacy was evaluated at baseline, 2 hours after dosing and 10 to 11 hours 
after dosing. 
Ivabradine produced a statistically significant heart rate lowering effect during exercise with the doses 
of  10  and  20  mg  after  10  hours  in  comparison  to placebo.  The  study  failed  to  show  any  dose  effect 
relationship in lowering heart rate. No consistent dose related changes in any of the exercise tolerance 
efficacy  criteria  were  seen.  A  trend  for  an  increase  in  the  time  to  1  mm  ST  segment  depression  in 
comparison to placebo at 10 and 15 mg doses was noted.  
Study  CL2-009:  Phase IIb dose-ranging study. Dose ranging evaluation of the anti-anginal efficacy 
and  safety  of  three  oral  doses  (2.5,  5,  10  mg  b.i.d.)  of  S  16257  in  comparison  to  placebo  in  360 
patients  with  stable  effort  angina  pectoris.  A  2-week  multicentre,  parallel  group,  double  blind, 
27/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
randomised,  placebo-controlled  trial  (P1-P2  period).  Followed  by  a  2  or  3-month  safety  study of S 
16257 (10 mg b.i.d., open design) (P3 period). Followed by a 1-week run-out period (10 mg b.i.d. or 
placebo in parallel groups, double-blind, randomised) (P4 period). 
This phase IIb trial was the first repeated oral dose study in patients. The objective of the first part of 
this study was to determine a safe and effective oral dose from a range of three doses of ivabradine as 
compared  to  placebo  during  2  weeks  in  the  treatment  of  chronic  stable  angina  pectoris,  assessed  on 
exercise-induced ischemia. 
Ivabradine caused a dose-dependent reduction in heart rate at all doses and showed anti-ischaemic and 
anti-anginal effects during exercise tolerance test at the trough of drug activity over a 14-day treatment 
period  (see  the  Table  7  below).  The  following  open  and run-out periods confirmed the anti-ischaemic 
and  anti-anginal  effects  of  10  mg  b.i.d.  ivabradine  and  did  not  show  rebound  phenomenon  and 
pharmacological tolerance.  
Table 7 : CL2-009 (P1-P2 double-blind period): main ETT results at the trough of drug activity  
Treatment 
group 
n 
Baseline 
369.1 ± 119.0 
343.7 ± 120.7 
364.1 ± 119.3 
370.2 ± 120.8 
68 
64 
59 
66 
Time to 1 mm ST segment depression (s) 
Placebo 
2.5 mg b.i.d. 
5 mg b.i.d. 
10 mg b.i.d. 
Time to limiting angina (s) 
68 
Placebo 
64 
2.5 mg b.i.d. 
59 
5 mg b.i.d. 
66 
10 mg b.i.d. 
Time to angina onset (s) 
68 
Placebo 
64 
2.5 mg b.i.d. 
59 
5 mg b.i.d. 
66 
10 mg b.i.d. 
417.8 ± 115.6 
402.5 ± 121.0 
432.8 ± 124.0 
430.5 ± 125.4 
352.8 ± 98.2 
330.5 ± 105.4 
355.6 ± 110.9 
351.5 ± 123.1 
Per-protocol set 
Change 
from 
baseline  
Between-
group p-
value a 
Estimated 
difference from 
placebo (SE) 
95% CI b 
9.0 ± 63.6 
32.0 ± 74.3 
44.1 ± 80.1 
46.2 ± 78.2 
12.7 ± 51.3 
22.5 ± 55.4 
27.2 ± 56.8 
40.8 ± 69.3 
24.7 ± 64.2 
37.6 ± 57.7 
38.8 ± 81.7 
69.4 ± 74.8 
0.016 
0.049 
0.003 
23.0 (12.9) 
35.2 (13.2) 
37.2 (12.8) 
–7.6; 53.5 
4.0; 66.3 
6.9; 67.5 
9.8 (10.2) 
14.5 (10.4) 
28.1 (10.1) 
–14.4; 33.9 
–10.1; 39.2 
4.1; 52.0 
13.0 (12.2) 
14.2 (12.4) 
44.7 (12.1) 
–15.8; 41.8 
–15.3; 43.6 
16.1; 73.3 
a statistical analysis of treatment effect by one-way analysis of variance. 
b Dunnett’s 95% confidence interval, significant results are printed in bold. 
Main studies 
Study  CL3-017:    Non-inferiority  study  versus  atenolol.  Evaluation  of  the  anti-anginal  efficacy  and 
safety  of  oral  chronic  administration  of  ivabradine  (5  mg  b.i.d.  then  7.5  mg  b.i.d.  or  10  mg  b.i.d.) 
compared to atenolol (50 mg o.d. then 100 mg o.d.) in patients with stable effort angina pectoris. A 4-
month international multicentre, parallel group, double-blind, randomised, controlled trial. 
The primary objective of this study was to demonstrate the non-inferiority of ivabradine (7.5 mg b.i.d. 
or 10 mg b.i.d.) versus atenolol 100 mg o.d. at the trough of drug activity after 4 months of treatment in 
patients suffering from stable angina pectoris. The efficacy was assessed on the change from baseline to 
last  value  of  total  duration  of  a  treadmill  exercise  tolerance  test  at  the  trough  of  drug  activity 
considering a clinical non-inferiority limit equal to -35 seconds. 
In  all  treatment  groups,  the  TED  increased  by  approximately  1.5  minutes  at  the  end  of  the  study  as 
compared to baseline after the 4-month treatment period at the trough of drug activity (see the Table 8 
below).  The  non-inferiority  of  ivabradine  7.5  and  10  mg  b.i.d.  versus  atenolol  100  mg  o.d.  was 
demonstrated.  TLA  and  TAO  increased  by  1.5  minutes  and  more  than 2 minutes, respectively, in the 
three treatment groups. TST increased by approximately 1.5 minutes in the three treatment groups. At 
peak  of exercise  the  decrease  in  HR  was  greater in patients treated with atenolol (-14.0 bpm) than  in 
28/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
those  treated  with  ivabradine  (-8.6  bpm  and  -10.3  bpm  in  the  ivabradine  7.5  and  10  mg  b.i.d.  group 
respectively) showing that ivabradine induced a similar improvement in exercise capacity to atenolol for 
a comparatively smaller heart rate reduction. 
A  decrease  by  two  thirds  in  the  mean  number  of  angina  attacks/week  and  in  the  mean  short  acting 
nitrates´consumption/ week at end of the study as compared to baseline was seen in all groups. 
During the first month ivabradine was dosed 5 mg b.i.d. and atenolol 50 mg o.d. The anti-anginal and 
anti-ischaemic  effects  were  significant  after  1-month  treatment  with  ivabradine;  non-inferiority versus 
atenolol 50 o.d. was demonstrated in the main analysis [change in TED at through of drug activity 64.2 
+  104.0  sec  (SE)  in  the  ivabradine  5  mg  bid  group;  60.0  +  114.4  sec  in  the  atenolol  50mg  group]. 
Importantly, regarding the comparison between ivabradine 7.5 and 10 mg b.i.d., at the trough and at the 
peak of drug activity, no statistically significant differences were observed between 7.5 mg bid and 10 
mg  b.i.d doses of ivabradine; therefore an ivabradine dose-effect relationship  was not observed in this 
study.  The  absence  of  rebound  phenomenon  after  ivabradine  discontinuation  was  confirmed  in  this 
study. 
Table 8 : Study CL3-017 ETT results at trough and peak of drug activity, 4-month period, non-inferiority 
analyses  
TED (s) 
At the trough of 
drug activity 
At the peak of 
drug activity 
TLA (s) 
At the trough of 
drug activity 
At the peak of 
drug activity 
TAO (s) 
At the trough of 
drug activity 
At the peak of 
drug activity 
TST (s) 
At the trough of 
drug activity 
At the peak of 
drug activity 
End – baseline (s) 
Mean ± SD 
E (SE)a 
95% CIb 
p-valuec 
Mean ± SD 
E (SE)a 
95% CIb 
p-valuec 
Mean ± SD 
E (SE)a 
95% CIb 
p-valuec 
Mean ± SD 
E (SE)a 
95% CIb 
p-valuec 
Mean ± SD 
E (SE)a 
95% CIb 
p-valuec 
Mean ± SD 
E (SE)a 
95% CIb 
p-valuec 
Mean ± SD 
E (SE)a 
95% CIb 
p-valuec 
Mean ± SD 
E (SE)a 
95% CIb 
p-valuec 
Ivabradine 
7.5 mg b.i.d. 
(N = 300) 
86.8 ± 129.0 
10.26 (9.45) 
[-8.28 ; 28.80] 
p < 0.001 
93.8 ± 150.9 
-11.46 (10.06) 
[-31.21 ; 8.29] 
p = 0.010 
91.8 ± 131.1 
9.33 (9.65) 
[-9.60 ; 28.26] 
p < 0.001 
99.2 ± 150.9 
-13.56 (10.13) 
[-33.45 ; 6.34] 
p = 0.017 
145.2 ± 153.4 
12.11 (11.51) 
[-10.48 ; 34.71] 
p < 0.001 
165.1 ± 161.1 
-10.91 (11.60) 
[-33.67 ; 11.85] 
p = 0.019 
98.0 ± 153.7 
4.26 (10.74) 
[-16.81 ; 25.34] 
p < 0.001 
108.4 ± 165.8 
-28.25 (11.00) 
[-49.84 ; -6.66] 
p = 0.270 
Ivabradine 
10 mg b.i.d. 
(N = 298) 
91.7 ± 118.8 
15.69 (9.46) 
[-2.88 ; 34.25] 
p < 0.001 
99.8 ± 132.5 
-5.39 (10.10) 
[-25.21 ; 14.43] 
p = 0.002 
96.9 ± 121.2 
15.07 (9.65) 
[-3.86 ; 34.01] 
p < 0.001 
104.9 ± 132.6 
-7.57 (10.16) 
[-27.51 ; 12.38] 
p = 0.004 
139.6 ± 140.6 
10.14 (11.55) 
[-12.53 ; 32.81] 
p < 0.001 
162.1 ± 148.6 
-10.45 (11.66) 
[-33.33 ; 12.43] 
p = 0.018 
86.9 ± 128.2 
-3.32 (10.75) 
[-24.41 ; 17.78] 
p = 0.002 
95.4 ± 133.6 
-38.56 (11.04) 
[-60.24 ; -16.88] 
p = 0.626 
Atenolol 
100 mg o.d. 
(N = 286) 
78.8 ± 133.4 
108.9 ± 133.0 
85.4 ± 133.7 
117.2 ± 132.5 
135.2 ± 154.7 
178.9 ± 151.9 
95.6±147.5 
140.5 ± 141.9 
Non-inferiority tests of ivabradine (7.5 mg, 10 mg) as compared to atenolol 100 mg. Non-inferiority limit: -35 s. One-sided type I error 
rate: 0.025.  a Estimate (Standard Error) of ivabradine minus atenolol effects: difference between group means adjusted for baseline and 
country factor,) parametric approach.  b 95% CI of the estimate (two-sided), in bold lower limit to be compared to - 35s. c Student’s t test 
based on the overall general linear model (least-squares norm) with baseline as a covariate and country as a  random factor. 
Study CL3-023: Non-inferiority study versus amlodipine. Evaluation of the anti-anginal efficacy and 
safety  of  oral  chronic  administration  of  ivabradine  (7.5  mg  b.i.d.  or  10  mg  b.i.d.)  compared  to 
amlodipine (10 mg o.d.), in patients with stable effort angina pectoris. A 3-month randomised double-
blind controlled parallel-group international multicentre trial.  
29/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The main objective of the study was to demonstrate the non-inferiority of ivabradine (7.5 mg b.i.d. or 10 
mg  b.i.d.)  in  comparison  to  amlodipine  (10  mg  o.d.)  on  the  improvement  over  a  3-month  treatment 
period of TED evaluated by ergometric bicycle ETT at the trough of drug activity. The non-inferiority 
limit was set at -30 seconds. 
Over the 3-month treatment period the improvement in TED was 27.6 s in the ivabradine 7.5 mg b.i.d. 
group, 21.7 s in the ivabradine 10 mg b.i.d. group and 31.2 s in the amlodipine 10 mg o.d. group at the 
trough  of  drug  activity  (see  the  Table  9  below).  The  non-inferiority  of  both  doses  of  ivabradine 
compared to amlodipine 10 mg o.d. was demonstrated (p < 0.001) within the set equivalence limit. The 
efficacy  was  reached  within the first month. The improvement in TLA and TAO of  0.5 minute and 1 
minute,  respectively  were  similar  in  the  three  treatment  groups.  Regarding  the  anti-ischaemic  effect, 
TST was also significantly increased by 0.7 minutes in the three treatment groups. 
A  decrease  by  two  thirds  in  the  mean  number  of  angina  attacks/week  and  in  the  mean  short  acting 
nitrates´consumption/ week at the end of the study as compared to baseline was seen in all groups. 
No difference in exercise capacity improvement was observed between ivabradine 7.5 mg b.i.d. and 10 
mg  b.i.d.  doses  at  the  trough  of  drug  activity,  except  that  ivabradine  at  the  dose  of  7.5  mg  bid 
significantly  increased  mean  total  work  while  ivabradine  10  mg  bid  had  no  statistically  significant 
effect. For a discussion of issues related to non-inferiority criteria in this study and the comparability to 
amlodipine see discussion on clinical efficacy. 
Table 9: Study CL3-023 ETT criteria at the trough of drug activity, summary of non-inferiority analyses  
TED (s) 
TLA (s) 
TAO (s) 
TST (s) 
End – baseline (s) 
Mean 
 SD 
±
E (SE)a 
95% CIb 
p-valuec 
Mean ± SD 
E (SE)a 
95% CIb 
p-valuec 
Mean ± SD 
E (SE)a 
95% CIb 
p-valuec 
Mean ± SD 
E (SE)a 
95% CIb 
p-valuec 
Ivabradine 
7.5 mg b.i.d. 
(N = 381) 
27.6 ± 91.7 
-1.79 (6.55) 
[-14.64 ; 11.06] 
p < 0.001 
29.9 ± 93.3 
-1.20 (6.59) 
[-14.14 ; 11.74] 
p < 0.001 
64.7 ± 104.9 
-0.60 (7.44) 
[-15.19 ; 13.99] 
p < 0.001 
44.9 ± 98.6 
6.51 (7.19) 
[-7.6 ; 20.61] 
p < 0.001 
Ivabradine 
10 mg b.i.d. 
(N = 376) 
21.7 ± 94.5 
-6.60 (6.58) 
[-19.52 ; 6.31] 
p < 0.001 
22.9 ± 94.7 
-6.96 (6.63) 
[-19.97 ; 6.04] 
p < 0.001 
59.7 ± 110.8 
-4.6 (7.47) 
[-19.26 ; 10.06] 
p < 0.001 
34.7 ± 104.5 
-1.83 (7.22) 
[-16.00 ; 12.34] 
p = < 0.001 
Amlodipine 
10 mg o.d. 
(N = 398) 
31.2 ± 92.0 
32.7 ± 92.1 
66.6 ± 99.1 
39.7 ± 103.2 
Non-inferiority tests of ivabradine (7.5 mg, 10 mg) as compared to amlodipine 10 mg. Non-inferiority limit: -30 s One-sided type 
I error rate: 0.025.  a Estimate (Standard Error) of ivabradine minus amlodipine effect: difference between group means adjusted 
on baseline and country factor.   b 95% CI of the estimate (two-sided), in bold lower limit to be compared to - 30s.  c Student’s t 
test based on the overall general linear model (least-squares norm) with baseline as a covariate and country as a random factor. 
Study  CL3-018:  Study  versus  placebo  on  top  of  amlodipine.  Evaluation  of  the  anti-anginal efficacy 
and  the  safety  of  oral  chronic  administration  of  ivabradine  (5  mg  b.i.d.  or  7.5  mg  b.i.d.)  versus 
placebo  in  association  to  background  therapy  with  amlodipine  (10  mg  o.d.)  in  patients  with  stable 
international  multicentre,  parallel  group,  double-blind, 
effort  angina  pectoris.  A  3-month 
randomised, controlled trial.  
The main objective of the study was to demonstrate that after a 3-month treatment period, ivabradine (5 
mg or 7.5 mg b.i.d.) was more efficacious than placebo when given in combination with amlodipine (10 
mg  o.d.)  on  the  improvement  of  TED  at  the  trough  of  drug  activity  in  stable  angina  patients 
insufficiently controlled by amlodipine alone, evaluated on a treadmill ETT.  
30/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The study showed no significant antianginal and anti-ischaemic effect with ivabradine 5 mg and 7.5 mg 
b.i.d.  as  compared  to  placebo  at  the  trough  of  drug  activity  on  top  of  a  background  therapy  with 
amlodipine (see Table 10 below). At the peak of drug activity, ivabradine at the doses of 5 mg bid and 
7.5 mg bid was found to be clinically superior to placebo for TED (30 and 23 s, respectively) and TAO 
(48 s and 32 s, respectively), and 5 mg bid for TLA (30 s) and time to TST (31 s). Heart rate and rate 
pressure  product  significantly  decreased  with  both  ivabradine  doses  as  compared  to  placebo.  No 
significant differences between the 5 mg and 7.5 mg b.i.d. ivabradine doses were found. 
Treatment group 
Table 10: Main ETT results from study CL3-018 
Change after 
treatment 
mean ± SD 
Adjusted 
difference from 
placebo (SE) 
Baseline 
mean ± SD 
95% CIa 
p-valuea 
582.8 ± 142.8 
596.8 ± 138.7 
585.0 ± 141.6 
Trough of drug activity 
Total exercise duration (s) 
Placebo 
Ivabradine 5 mg b.i.d. 
Ivabradine 7.5 mg b.i.d. 
Time to 1 mm ST segment depression (s) 
Placebo 
Ivabradine 5 mg b.i.d. 
Ivabradine 7.5 mg b.i.d. 
Time to angina onset (s) 
Placebo 
Ivabradine 5 mg b.i.d. 
Ivabradine 7.5 mg b.i.d. 
496.1 ± 164.6 
508.3 ± 163.0 
505.8 ± 165.2 
476.6 ± 145.0 
491.5 ± 145.2 
475.5 ± 145.6 
Peak of drug activity 
Total exercise duration (s) 
Placebo 
Ivabradine 5 mg b.i.d. 
Ivabradine 7.5 mg b.i.d. 
Time to 1 mm ST segment depression (s) 
Placebo 
Ivabradine 5 mg b.i.d. 
Ivabradine 7.5 mg b.i.d. 
Time to angina onset (s) 
Placebo 
Ivabradine 5 mg b.i.d. 
Ivabradine 7.5 mg b.i.d. 
581.2 ± 142.6 
595.4 ± 137.6 
583.0 ± 141.1 
493.9 ± 163.9 
507.7 ± 160.9 
502.8 ± 164.8 
52.5 ± 113.7 
62.4 ± 139.7 
58.3 ± 110.9 
74.9 ± 147.2 
84.5 ± 154.7 
81.6 ± 140.2 
89.9 ± 126.3 
105.2 ± 166.7 
104.9 ± 138.2 
58.4 ± 124.0 
84.1 ± 150.1 
79.0 ± 124.2 
74.1 ± 159.8 
100.4 ± 161.7 
96.5 ± 152.1 
13.06 (10.88) 
7.50 (10.79) 
–8.29; 34.42 
–13.69; 28.68 
0.115 
0.244 
12.96 (13.15) 
9.87 (13.00) 
–12.87; 38.79 
–15.66; 35.40 
0.162 
0.224 
18.70 (12.93) 
15.41 (12.84) 
–6.70; 44.09 
–9.81; 40.63 
0.074 
0.115 
30.15 (11.80) 
23.05 (11.74) 
6.97; 53.32 
0.01; 46.10 
31.03 (13.93) 
25.74 (13.85) 
3.68; 58.38 
–1.45; 52.94 
0.005 
0.025 
0.013 
0.032 
98.9 ± 144.0 
142.6 ± 168.4 
130.6 ± 144.1 
a analysed using a superiority test for ivabradine compared with placebo, with a one-sided type I error rate of 0.025. 
476.2 ± 144.5 
490.4 ± 144.5 
473.8 ± 146.2 
47.54 (13.75) 
32.21 (13.70) 
20.55; 74.53 
5.31; 59.11 
< 0.001 
0.010 
Long-term persistence of efficacy  
Long-term efficacy of ivabradine was assessed (as a secondary end-point) in three 1-year safety studies, 
CL3-019, CL3-021, and CL3-022, and in an ongoing 5-year safety study CL3-044.  
Study  CL3-019:  This  was  a  1-year,  randomised,  double-blind,  controlled,  parallel  group,  multicentre 
trial comparing ivabradine 10 mg b.i.d. to atenolol 100 mg o.d. in outpatients with stable effort angina 
pectoris.  A  total  of  318  patients were included; 212 in ivabradine and 106 in the atenolol group. The 
principal efficacy criterion (defined as a secondary objective) was to compare the anti-anginal efficacy 
of  ivabradine  vs.  atenolol  by  assessing  the  mean  number  of  angina  attacks  per  week  and  the  mean 
consumption of short acting nitrates per week (based on information reported in the patients’ diary).  
Study  CL3-021:  This  was  a  1-year  multicentre,  parallel  group,  double-blind,  randomised  trial 
comparing two ivabradine doses (5 mg b.i.d. versus 7.5 mg b.i.d.) in patients with stable effort angina 
pectoris. A total of 386 patients were included: 198 in the 5 mg b.i.d. group and 188 in the 7.5 mg b.i.d. 
group. The principal efficacy criterion (defined as a secondary objective) was to assess the clinical anti-
anginal activity of ivabradine within each of the 2 dose groups, and to compare the clinical anti-anginal 
activity  of  the  2  doses  of  ivabradine  (5  mg  b.i.d.  and  7.5  mg  b.i.d.),  by  assessing  the  following 
parameters that were recorded based on the patient diary: mean number of angina attacks per week, and 
the mean consumption of short acting nitrates units per week. 
31/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study CL3-022: This was a 12-month international multicentre, open extension study of ivabradine (7.5 
mg b.i.d.) in patients with stable effort angina pectoris including patients from studies CL3-017 or CL3-
018.  A  total  of  660  patients  were  included:  391  from  study  CL3-017,  and  269 from study CL3-018. 
The  principal  efficacy  criterion  (defined  as  a  secondary  objective)  was  the  mean  number  of  angina 
attacks per week and mean consumption of short acting nitrates per week (based on the data recorded in 
the patient’s diary and collected at each visit).  
The main inclusion criteria in studies 019/021 for patients were in general: age 
 18 years, with history 
of chronic angina pectoris for at least 3 months prior to inclusion and with defined severity (no angina 
at rest and at least one angina attack per month during the last 3 months or a positive exercise tolerance 
test  within  6  months  prior  to  inclusion)  and  clinical  stability  (no  significant  change  in  frequency, 
severity  or  triggering  activity  within  one  month  preceding  inclusion  and  no  changes  in  nitrates 
consumption).  Anti-anginal  drugs  (except  for  beta-blockers  and  non-dihydropyridine  calcium  channel 
blockers) prescribed prior to study entry could be continued in studies 021/022. 
≥
For  studies  CL3-019  and  CL3-021,  there  were  sustained  significant  reductions  with  ivabradine 
treatment in angina  attack frequency and short-acting  nitrates  use between baseline and the end of the 
studies. Results on angina attacks and short-acting nitrate use are shown in the tables 11-12 below: 
Table 11: Angina attack frequency by visit in long-term safety studies CL3-019, CL3-021, and CL3-022 
Study, treatment group 
n 
Baseline 
Change from baseline 
Difference M12 – baseline 
Difference from 
comparator 
M3 
M6 
M9 
M12a 
E (SE) 
95% CI 
E (SE) 
95% CI 
CL3-019 
Ivabradine 10 mg b.i.d. 
Atenolol 100 mg o.d. 
204  1.99 ± 4.19  –1.13 ± 3.48 –1.51 ± 4.01 –1.55 ± 4.36 –1.33 ± 4.27  –1.33 (0.37)  –2.05; –0.61  –0.54 (0.63) –1.79; 0.71 
102  2.04 ± 2.89  –1.12 ± 2.11 –0.83 ± 6.97 –1.51 ± 2.50 –0.79 ± 6.73  –0.79 (0.52) 
–1.81; 0.23 
CL3-021 
191  2.87 ± 5.25  –1.52 ± 3.48 –2.04 ± 4.73 –2.01 ± 4.94 –1.91 ± 4.79  –1.91 (0.32)  –2.55; –1.28 
Ivabradine 5 mg b.i.d. 
Ivabradine 7.5 mg b.i.d.  179  2.29 ± 3.87  –1.31 ± 3.42 –1.65 ± 3.49 –1.47 ± 3.74 –1.20 ± 4.14  –1.20 (0.34)  –1.86; –0.54  0.71 (0.47)  –0.20; 1.63 
CL3-022 
Ivabradine 7.5 mg b.i.d.  647  0.77 ± 2.09  0.08 ± 2.58  –0.07 ± 2.24 –0.07 ± 2.34 –0.10 ± 2.14 –0.100 (0.084) –0.265; 0.065 
– 
– 
a Visit is M12 for the PPS and last visit under treatment for the FAS; other data for FAS. 
Table 12: Short-acting nitrates use by visit in long-term safety studies CL3-019, CL3-021, and CL3-022 
Study, treatment group 
n 
Baseline 
Change from baseline 
Difference M12 – baseline 
Difference from 
comparator 
M3 
M6 
M9 
M12a 
E (SE) 
95% CI 
E (SE) 
95% CI 
CL3-019 
Ivabradine 10 mg b.i.d. 
Atenolol 100 mg o.d. 
204  0.90 ± 2.19  –0.42 ± 1.71  –0.55 ± 1.95 –0.53 ± 2.23  –0.45 ± 2.36  –0.45 (0.19)  –0.82; –0.08  0.64 (0.33) –0.01; 1.28 
101  1.50 ± 3.58  –0.86 ± 2.99  –1.14 ± 3.45 –1.19 ± 3.37  –1.08 ± 3.26  –1.08 (0.27)  –1.61; –0.56 
CL3-021 
Ivabradine 5 mg b.i.d. 
Ivabradine 7.5 mg b.i.d.  179  1.66 ± 3.92  –0.94 ± 3.51  –1.22 ± 3.61 –1.09 ± 3.97  –0.72 ± 4.48  –0.72 (0.33)  –1.36; –0.08  0.45 (0.45) –0.45; 1.34 
-1.14 ± 4.04  –1.39 ± 4.13  –1.46± 4.22  –1.17 ± 4.27  –1.17 (0.32)  –1.79; –0.55 
191  2.15 ± 6.09 
CL3-022 
Ivabradine 7.5 mg b.i.d.  647  0.62 ± 1.70  0.17 ± 2.30  –0.00 ± 1.79  0.03 ± 1.93  0.00 ± 1.78  0.003 (0.070) –0.134; 0.140 
– 
– 
a Visit is M12 for the PPS and last visit under treatment for the FAS; other data for FAS. 
The  persistence  of  efficacy  of  ivabradine  and  the  possibility  of  rebound  phenomena  following  abrupt 
cessation of ivabradine therapy were evaluated during the run-out period of the pivotal efficacy studies 
CL2-009  and  CL3-017, and in the long-term safety study CL3-019. Studies revealed lack of rebound 
reduction in exercise capacity or increase in angina symptoms following withdrawal of treatment. 
Efficacy in special populations 
Data  from  the  five  main  studies  showed  a therapeutic  response  (reduction  in  HR  and  decrease  in  the 
frequency of angina attacks) in females consistent with the overall patient population. 
32/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The anti-anginal efficacy of ivabradine was also preserved in diabetic patients (n = 457) with a similar 
safety profile as compared to the overall population.   
Additional post-hoc analyses, requested by the CHMP, did not reveal a loss of anti-anginal efficacy in 
high-risk  patient  groups  [those  with  HR  below  50  bpm,  severe  angina,  left  ventricular  hypertrophy 
(LVH)  or  factors  likely  associated  with  left  ventricular  dysfunction  (LVD;  history  of  myocardial 
infarction documented by Q wave on ECG or use of concomitant diuretics in patients without history of 
hypertension) and at risk of arrhythmia (all patients having at least one of the following risk factor for 
drug induced ventricular arrhythmia: female patients, aged ≥ 70 years, history of LVH, history of HF, 
concomitant  treatment  with  QT  prolonging  drug,  history  or  AE  of  atrial  fibrillation,  hypokaliemia, 
bradycardia < 45 bpm under treatment, QT prolonged at baseline or under treatment)]. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  clinical  efficacy of ivabradine was evaluated using standardised exercise tolerance tests (ETT) in 
four well conducted, large-scale, repeated-administration, randomised, controlled studies. Three of these 
compared  ivabradine  monotherapy  with  placebo  (dose-finding  study  CL2-009)  or  with  the  standard 
anti-anginal  therapies  atenolol  (CL3-017)  or  amlodipine  (CL3-023).  The  add-on  study  CL3-018 
compared ivabradine to placebo during background amlodipine treatment. Additionally, the efficacy of 
ivabradine 
three  1-year  safety  studies; 
CL3-019/021/022. 
in  preventing  angina  symptoms  was  evaluated 
in 
Overall, a relevant anti-anginal effect was demonstrated relative to placebo and atenolol. Although the 
non inferiority to amlodipine was statistically demonstrated at the predefined delta of -30 sec (estimated 
between group difference with ivabradine 7.5 mg b.i.d. versus amlodipine: 1.8 sec with  95% CI:-14.6; 
+11.6),    the  robustness  of  these  results  was  questioned,  considering  the  effect  size  (28  sec  with 
ivabradine and 31 sec  with amlodipine on TED), and the obtained lower limit of the 95% CI of -14.6 
sec. The predefined delta of -30 sec was considered too permissive and the obtained lower limits did not, 
thus,  sufficiently  rule  out  inferiority.  Furthermore,  non-inferiority  studies  with  other  calcium  channel 
blockers,  in  particular  the  heart-rate  lowering  medicinal  products  verapamil  and  diltiazem,  were  not 
performed.  Post-hoc  analysis  confirmed  the  non  inferiority  of  ivabradine  7.5  mg  twice  daily  to 
amlodipine  at  a  delta  of  15  sec  on  all  ergometric  criteria.  Despite  difficulties  with  bicycle  exercise 
testing  the  clinical  efficacy  of  ivabradine  and  of  amlodipine  was  found  comparable  (See  benefit-risk 
assessment).  
In a 725-patients randomised placebo controlled study, ivabradine  did not show additional efficacy on 
top of amlodipine at the trough of drug activity (12 hours after oral intake) while an additional efficacy 
was shown at peak (3-4 hours after oral intake).  Therefore, administration of ivabradine in combination 
with  other  anti-anginal  therapies  (apart  from  nitrates)  could  not  be  recommended  due  to  insufficient 
additional  clinical  efficacy  (amlodipine)  or the  absence  of  efficacy  and  safety data (beta-blockers and 
the non-dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers diltiazem and verapamil). Taking all this above into 
account,  the  place  of  ivabradine in the treatment of  chronic  stable angina pectoris, with beta-blockers 
and calcium channel blockers respectively as established first- and second-line therapies, was discussed 
by the CHMP (i.e. should ivabradine be used only in patients who have intolerance to beta-blockers and 
calcium  channel  blockers,  or  could  a  second-line  indication  for  patients  who  are  intolerant  or  have 
contra-indication  only  to  beta-blockers  be  granted).  Finally,  a  second-line  indication  was  considered 
approvable.  
Concerning the dose, the dose-ranging  study (CL2-009) showed superiority of ivabradine 10 mg b.i.d. 
over  placebo  at  trough,  whereas  5  mg  b.i.d.  dose  generally  failed  to  show  statistically  significant 
improvements at trough, but showed significant improvements at peak. Results from the study CL3-017 
that included a forced titration step provided evidence for the non-inferiority of ivabradine 7.5 and 10 
mg  b.i.d.  versus  atenolol  100  mg  o.d.  after  3  months,  and  also  for  ivabradine  5.0  mg  b.i.d.  versus 
atenolol 50 mg o.d. after 1 month of treatment at trough. The second non-inferiority study (CL3-023) 
showed non-inferiority of both ivabradine 7.5 and 10 mg b.i.d. compared to amlodipine 10 mg o.d. In 
both of the forced-titration main non-inferiority studies, ivabradine 10 mg b.i.d. showed no larger mean 
33/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
change  from  baseline  in  the  main  efficacy  parameter  compared  to  ivabradine  7.5  mg  b.i.d.  It  was 
concluded by the CHMP, that there was insufficient information available to support the 10 mg dose in 
the treatment of stable angina pectoris.  
The 1-year safety studies CL3-019/021 had more permissive inclusion and exclusion criteria and also 
accepted  the  use  of  also  other  anti-anginal  drugs  than  short-acting  nitrates,  which  resulted  in  an 
enhanced  representativeness  of  the study population that contained a larger proportion of females and 
CSS  grade  I  patients  compared  to  the  phase  III  efficacy  trials described above. Along with the open-
label  extension  study  CL3-022,  these  studies  indicated  the  persistence  of  efficacy  with  ivabradine,  in 
terms of a sustained reduction in angina attacks and nitrate consumption over 12 months. No exercise 
testing was, however, performed beyond 4 months of treatment. No rebound phenomena were observed 
at cessation in these studies.  
Regarding  post-hoc  subgroup  analyses,  efficacy  could  be  shown  in  subgroups  such  as  patients  with 
previous  MI,  CABG,  PTCA,  diabetes,  as  well  as  the  elderly  and  patients  with  varying  CSS  angina 
grade. The efficacy data regarding patients with heart failure, hepatic impairment and the very elderly 
patients remained inconclusive due to limited amount of patients included in these subgroups; the SPC 
is reflecting these findings (4.2, 4.3, 4.4).  
Overall,  these  data  established  the  clinical  efficacy  of  ivabradine  monotherapy  robustly  compared  to 
placebo and atenolol, and  sufficiently compared to amlodipine in the treatment of stable chronic angina 
pectoris. However, the efficacy of ivabradine as add-on therapy on top of amlodipine relative to placebo 
at  trough  of  drug  activity  was  not  shown.  As  a  consequence,  the  CHMP  concluded,  that  sufficient 
overall  efficacy  data  had  been  provided  for  positive  benefit-assessment  of  “Symptomatic treatment of 
chronic  stable  angina  pectoris  in  patients  with  normal  sinus  rhythm,  who  have  a  contraindication  or 
intolerance for beta-blockers”-indication. 
No studies in patients < 18 years of age were carried out, and therefore ivabradine is not recommended 
to be used in patients <18 years of age. This is reflected in the SPC (4.2). 
Clinical safety 
The  safety  of    ivabradine    was    investigated    in    52  completed  and  9  on-going  (at    the  time  of  the 
submission) studies.  
In  addition  to  studies  described  in  other  parts  of  Clinical  aspects  section,  study  CL3-044  was  an 
ongoing,  long-term (5-year), open-label, flexible dosing  extension study, in which patients from safety 
studies  CL3-019,  CL3-021,  and  CL3-022  who  wished  to  continue  ivabradine  therapy were  included. 
Patients could join study CL3-044 either  immediately after the last visit of previous study for most of 
patients and after a variable period of time for some patients. The primary objective of the study was to 
further  assess  the  long-term  safety  of  ivabradine.  Investigators  had  the  possibility,  based  on  their 
judgment on patient’s condition, to increase the dose to 7.5 mg and then to 10 mg b.i.d. from the overall 
starting dose of 5 mg b.i.d. 
It is noteworthy, that in the below analyses, a majority (ca 80%) of the patients of the overall safety set 
in  the  “placebo-group”  came  from  the  study  CL3-018  in  which  background  therapy  with  amlodipine 
was given. In the overall ivabradine-group, a minority (<20%) of patients received also amlodipine as 
background therapy. 
Patient exposure 
Ivabradine  was  studied  in  clinical  trials  involving  nearly  5,000  participants.  Approximately  3,000 
patients were treated with ivabradine. 
34/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13 below summarises the number of healthy volunteers, subjects (patients having a disease other 
than  coronary  artery  disease  or  stable  angina  pectoris)  or  patients  who  received  at  least  one  dose  of 
ivabradine or its main active  metabolite S 18982 during the clinical development programme.  
Table 13: Number of healthy volunteers, subjects or patients who received at least one dose of ivabradine 
or metabolite S 18982 during the clinical programme 
Healthy 
volunteers  On-going studies 
Completed studies 
Subjects 
Patients 
Completed studies 
On-going studies 
Completed studies 
On-going studies 
Ivabradine 
oral 
446 
102 
17 
39 
2953 
570 
i.v. and oral  Total 
558 
102 
92 
48 
2970 
570 
24 
0 
12 
0 
0 
0 
i.v. 
88 
0 
63 
9 
17 
0 
S 18982 
i.v. 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
oral 
72 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
i.v. and oral  Total 
12 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
84 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Several groupings were used in the Integrated Analysis of Safety: 
- Overall Intravenous Safety Set   
- Overall Oral Safety Set (OSS): all information from studies - except follow-up periods 
-  Short-Term  Oral  Safety  Set:  all  information  collected  during  the  first  month  of  oral  double-blind 
studies except for study CL2-009 (first 14 days) and for study CL2-047 due to the 3-week sequential 
dose titration 
-Middle-Term  and  Middle-Term  Double-Blind  Oral  Safety  Sets:  All  information  collected  during  the 
first 3 months of the controlled double-blind studies, except for CL3-017 (first 4 months) 
-Long-Term Oral Safety Set: All information collected over 1 year (excluding run-out) of the studies. 
In the Overall Intravenous Safety Set, all patients (N = 111) received a single intravenous dose of either 
ivabradine (N = 80) or placebo (N = 31). Ivabradine doses ranged from 0.13 to 0.26 mg/kg (mean ± SD 
= 0.203 ± 0.027 mg/kg) and corresponded to total doses ranging from 7 to 25 mg (mean ± SD = 15.7 ± 
3.8 mg).  
Number of patients exposed to oral ivabradine/ placebo/ atenolol/ amlopidine at the time of submission 
is given in the Table 14 below. 
Table 14: Treatment duration in the Overall Oral Safety Set - Descriptive analysis by treatment group 
N 
Mean ± SD (days) 
Min – Max (days) 
Missing  n (%) 
Estimate of exposure in patient-years 
< 1 month 
]1 - 3] months 
]3 - 6] months 
]6 - 12] months 
> 12 months 
N: total number of patients in the group; n: number of assessable patients; %: n/N x 100 
Treatment duration: (last administration date – first administration date); SD: Standard Deviation 
*: exposure could not be calculated for 5 patients who did not have a last drug-intake date 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
Ivabradine 
(N = 2907) 
2902* 
134.0 ± 109.1 
1 – 420 
5 
1064.5 
324 (11.2) 
974 (33.6) 
1091 (37.6) 
297 (10.2) 
216 (7.4) 
Placebo 
(N = 313) 
313 
75.5 ± 30.5 
5 – 117 
- 
64.7 
55 (17.6) 
171 (54.6) 
87 (27.8) 
- 
- 
Atenolol 
(N = 435) 
435 
156.1 ± 110.1 
1 – 401 
- 
185.9 
47 (10.8) 
12 (2.8) 
285 (65.5) 
58 (13.3) 
33 (7.6) 
Amlodipine 
(N = 404) 
404 
86.3 ± 13.8 
1 – 119 
- 
95.5 
7 (1.7) 
275 (68.1) 
122 (30.2) 
- 
- 
Treatment duration in the long-term oral safety set per ivabradine dose is given in the Table 15 below.  
35/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15:  Treatment duration in the Long-Term Oral Safety Set - Descriptive analysis by treatment 
group and by ivabradine dose group 
Ivabradine 
n 
Mean ± SD (days) 
Min – Max (days) 
Missing  
≤ 6 months 
n (%) 
]6 – 12] months  n (%) 
> 12 months 
n (%) 
N :total number of patients in the group; n: number of assessable patients; %: n/N x 100;  
Treatment duration: (last administration date – first administration date); SD: Standard Deviation 
5 mg b.i.d. 
(N = 198) 
195 
324.9 ± 101.0 
2 – 420 
3 
21 (10.8) 
102 (52.3) 
72 (36.9) 
7.5 mg b.i.d. 
(N = 188) 
187 
307.7 ± 118.7 
1 – 411 
1 
29 (15.5) 
99 (52.9) 
59 (31.6) 
10 mg b.i.d. 
(N = 212) 
212 
315.9 ± 114.6 
1 – 402 
- 
31 (14.6) 
96 (45.3) 
85 (40.1) 
All 
(N = 598) 
594 
316.3 ± 111.7 
1 – 420 
4 
81 (13.6) 
297 (50.0) 
216 (36.4) 
Atenolol 
(N = 104) 
104 
325.1 ± 95.3 
4 – 401 
- 
13 (12.5) 
58 (55.8) 
33 (31.7) 
During  the  assessment  of  the  dossier,  the  number  of  patients  treated  for  12  months  and  more  with 
ivabradine had increased to 713. In the 5 year-extension study CL3-044, the number of patients treated 
for more than two years was 169.  
Adverse events  
In the OSS, the number of patients exposed to ivabradine was much higher than the comparator groups. 
The total exposure duration in the ivabradine group (1064.5 patients-years) was approximately 6 times 
greater than in the atenolol (185.9), 11 times greater than in the amlodipine (95.5) and 16 times greater 
than in the placebo groups (64.7). Therefore for comparison of incidences across  treatment groups , the 
rates were also  expressed per patient-year to obtain an estimation of the incidence per patient year of 
exposure. 
In  the  Overall  Oral  Safety  Set  excluding  study  CL2-047  (OSS-047),  the  overall  incidence  of adverse 
events (AE’s) was higher in the ivabradine group as compared to the other groups, which was primarily 
driven  by  an  increased  incidence  for  visual  disturbances  NOS  (16.4%  vs  6.6%,  4.5%  and  2.9%  for 
atenolol,  amlodipine  and  placebo  respectively),  and  to  a  lesser  extent  by  an  increased  incidence  of 
cardiac disorders. (Eye and cardiac AEs are presented in the Table 16a below). 
Table 16a: Emergent eye and cardiac adverse events reported by at least 0.5% of patients exposed to 
ivabradine 5 , 7.5 mg and 10 mg b.i.d. in the Overall Oral Safety set (excluding CL2-047)  
Ivabradine 
System organ class 
(5 or 7.5 mg bid) 
    Preferred term 
(N=1651) 
PY=635.2 
Ivabradine  
(10 mg bid) 
(N=1160) 
PY=424.9 
Atenolol 
(N=408) 
PY=184.4 
Placebo 
(N=313) 
PY=64.7 
Amlodipine 
(N=404) 
PY=95.5 
PY 
PY 
PY 
PY 
n  % 
n  % 
n  %  PY  n  % 
n  % 
281  17.0  44.24  336  29.0 79.08  10  3.2  15.46  39  9.6  21.15  19  4.7  19.90 
Eye disorders 
270  16.4  42.51  316  27.2 74.37  9  2.9  13.91  27  6.6  14.64  18  4.5  18.85 
    Visual disturbance NOS 
296  17.9  46.60  219  18.9 51.54  29  9.3  44.82  62  15.2  33.62  53  13.1  55.50 
Cardiac disorders* 
53 
1.7  7.33 
    Sinus bradycardia 
5  1.2  2.71  11  2.7  11.52 
50 
    Ventricular extrasystoles 
1.0  4.19 
7  1.7  3.80 
33 
    Angina pectoris aggravated 
1.2  5.24 
1  0.2  0.54 
33 
    Angina unstable 
0.5  2.09 
8  2.0  4.34 
    Atrioventricular block first degree  23 
0.5  2.09 
6  1.5  3.25 
19 
    Myocardial ischaemia  
0.7  3.14 
1  0.2  0.54 
15 
    Palpitations 
0.5  2.09 
2  0.5  1.08 
15 
    Supraventricular extrasystoles 
1.2  5.24 
2  0.5  1.08 
15 
    Atrial fibrillation 
0.7  3.14 
2  0.5  1.08 
13 
    Myocardial infarction 
0.0  0.00 
11 
    Ventricular tachycardia 
0  0.0  0.00 
0.5  2.09 
 1    0.3   1.55  0  0.0  0.00 
8 
    Supraventricular tachycardia 
3.2  8.34  84  7.2  19.77  3  1.0  4.64  21  5.1  11.39  7 
3.0  7.87  29  2.5  6.83  4  1.3  6.18 
2.0  5.20  21  1.8  4.94  6  1.9  9.27 
2.0  5.20  14  1.2  3.29  1  0.3  1.55 
1.4  3.62  13  1.1  3.06  3  1.0  4.64 
1.2  2.99  17  1.5  4.00  3  1.0  4.64 
0.9  2.36  10  0.9  2.35  0  0.0  0.00 
0.9  2.36  7  0.6  1.65  4  1.3  6.18 
0.9  2.36  11  0.9  2.59  1  0.3  1.55 
0.8  2.05  5  0.4  1.18  1  0.3  1.55 
0.7  1.73  4  0.3  0.94  0  0.0  0.00 
0.5  1.26  1  0.1  0.24 
4 
5 
2 
2 
3 
2 
5 
3 
0 
2 
The  undesirable  effects  most  frequently  observed  with the doses of 5 mg and 7.5 mg are given in the 
Table  16b  below  and  include  luminous  phenomena  (phosphenes),  bradycardia  (0.5%  of  patients 
experienced  bradycardia  below  40  beats  per  minute,  ventricular  extrasystoles,  headaches,  dizziness, 
blurred vision, AV 1st degree block and palpitations. 
36/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 16b: The most frequently reported undesirable effects (reported by at least 0.1% of patients) with 
5 and 7.5 mg bid ivabradine doses (pooled; N=1651); regardless of investigator’s causality assessment  
Phosphene like events   
Bradycardia (sinus & NOS) 
Ventricular extrasystoles 
Blurred vision    
AV 1st degree block 
Headache NOS 
Dizziness (exc vertigo) 
Palpitations 
Angina pectoris aggravated 
Eosinophilia (exc pulmonary) 
Hyperuricaemia 
Vertigo NEC 
Supraventricular extrasystoles 
Sinus arrhythmia 
Ventricular tachycardia 
Myocardial ischaemia 
Blood creatinine increased 
Nausea 
Constipation 
Diarrhea NOS 
Muscle cramps 
Dyspnea NOS 
14.5* 
3.3 
3.0 
1.5 
1.4 
2.2 
1.5 
0.9 
2.0 
0.7 
1.0 
0.4 
0.9 
0.2 
0.7 
1.2 
0.2 
0.3 
0.5 
0.3 
0.4 
0.4 
% of patients with undesirable effect. 
Ophthalmic safety 
Visual  symptoms  were  specifically  studied  in  the  Visual  Disturbance  Subset  (VDS):  consisting  of 
patients in the phase III efficacy studies 017, 018, and 023, the 1-year safety studies 019 and 021 and 
the phase II study 030, which together involved 2545 patients treated with ivabradine. In these studies 
ophthalmic  symptoms  were  collected  using  standardised  charts  and  were  reviewed  by  an  Ophthalmic 
Safety  Committee.  The  incidence  of  visual  symptoms  in  the  VDS  was higher in the ivabradine group 
(17%)  as  compared  to  all  other  groups  (3  to  7%).  An  ivabradine  dose-dependency  was  noted:  5  mg 
(14%),  7.5  mg  (18%)  and  10  mg  (29%). The vast majority of visual symptoms with ivabradine were 
phosphene-like  events  (luminous  phenomena):  transient  enhanced  brightness  in  a  limited  area  of  the 
visual  field.  A  large  majority  of  events  was  considered  mild  to  moderate.  In  patients  with  only 
phosphene-like events, the first events usually occurred within 2 months after treatment initiation. These 
patients showed a large variability in frequency of these events and experienced each separate event for 
a  few  seconds  to  a  few  minutes.  Light  variation  was  the  main  triggering  factor  for  phosphene-like 
events.  The  impact  of  these  visual symptoms  on  the  patients’  daily  life  was  low and a large majority 
(76%) of all phosphene-like events resolved during treatment. In the OSS, the frequency of phosphene 
like events was 14.5%. and the frequency  of patients changing their daily routine or discontinuing the 
treatment in relation to visual symptoms was less than 1%. 
In studies CL3-019/CL2-047, specific ophthalmic testing by electroretinography (ERG) was performed. 
The only consistent difference between ivabradine and atenolol treatment groups was the increase (2 to 
4  ms)  in  maximal  response  b-wave  latency  with  ivabradine  in  a  dose-dependent  manner.  The  cone 
system  tests  (visual  fields, colour  vision  and  visual  acuity)  and  other  ophthalmic  tests (VEP, anterior 
segment, ophthalmoscopy, IOP, electro-oculogram) showed no clinically important differences between 
the ivabradine and atenolol groups.  
37/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Cardiac safety 
In  the  OSS,  the  most  frequently  noted  cardiac  AEs  with  ivabradine  were  bradycardia  (3.3%), 
ventricular  extrasystoles  (3.0%)  and  coronary  artery  disorders  (mainly  angina  aggravated/  CAD 
aggravated:  2.0%),  of  which  the  rates  per  patient-year  were  comparable  to  amlodipine  and  higher 
relative  to  atenolol,  except  for  bradycardia  that  showed  similar  rates  per  patient-year  with ivabradine 
and atenolol. A clear ivabradine dose-dependency was only seen for bradycardia. The number of cardiac 
withdrawals  per  patient-year  under  ivabradine  was  comparable  to  the  amlodipine  group,  but  higher 
compared  to  the  atenolol  group  in  the  OSS.  Notably,  the  withdrawal  rate  for  bradycardia  was  lower 
with ivabradine compared to atenolol.  
Various  ECG  parameters  were  studied  in  specific  ECG  Safety  Sets  (studies  where  ECG  data  were 
collected  in  standardised  manner  and  reviewed  by  a  central  reader).  The  changes  noted  in  the  PR 
interval  and  the  QRS  duration  with  ivabradine  were  of  no  clinical  concern.  The  mean  changes  from 
baseline in the population corrected QT (QTcP) consisted of small changes in either direction that never 
exceeded  +1.4  ms  in  the  ivabradine  group,  never  attained  statistical  significance  within  a  treatment 
group and showed a good agreement between different ECG Safety Sets for each ivabradine treatment 
group, which was acceptable. Concerning QT changes in individual patients, only 1 patient out of 1140 
(0.1%) in the ivabradine group and 1 patient out of 91 patients (1.1%) in the atenolol group had a QTcP 
value 
  500  ms  in  the  Middle-Term  ECG  Safety  Set.  In  the  Long-Term  ECG Safety Set, the overall 
proportion  of  patients  with  QTcP 
  500  ms  in  the  ivabradine  treatment  group  was  1.0%,  which  was 
primarily driven by 4 patients with QTcP 
 500 ms in the ivabradine 7.5 mg b.i.d. group. Importantly, 
there were no patients with a QTcP 
 60 ms in either ECG Safety Set.  
500 ms and change 
≥
≥
≥
≥
≥
Head-to-head comparisons with atenolol and amlodipine 
In the head-to-head comparisons of ivabradine and atenolol (CL-017/019-studies) the overall incidence 
of common AEs was higher with ivabradine compared to atenolol, which was mainly driven by higher 
rates on visual disturbance and cardiac disorders. Sinus bradycardia was reported under ivabradine and 
atenolol  at  frequencies  of  5.7%  and  5.1%,  respectively.  The  rate  of  serious  coronary  artery disorders 
with ivabradine was higher compared to atenolol (3.8% vs. 1.5%). A further analysis of the subset of 
beta-blocker  naive  patients  (30%  of  patients)  showed  a  similar  incidence  of  cardiac  disorders  with 
ivabradine and atenolol. The rates of serious arrhythmias with ivabradine and atenolol were 1.3% and 
0.7% respectively.  
In head-to-head comparisons of ivabradine and amlodipine (CL3-023), the overall incidence of common 
AEs was higher with ivabradine compared to amlodipine, mainly driven, again, by higher rates on visual 
disturbance  and  sinus  bradycardia  (19.0%  vs.  4.5%  and  8.5%  vs.  1.7%).  The  rate  on  the  serious 
coronary  artery  disorders  with  ivabradine  was  somewhat  lower  compared  to  amlodipine  (1.8%  vs. 
2.5%).  Higher rates were observed with ivabradine versus amlodipine on serious cardiac arrhythmias, 
but absolute incidences were low in both treatment groups (0.6% vs. 0.2%, resp). No cases of serious 
sinus bradycardia were observed in either the ivabradine or amlodipine treatment group in the study. 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In  the  OSS,  8.1%  of  the  ivabradine  group  experienced  at  least  one  serious  emergent  adverse  event 
(SEAE),  while  lower  incidences  were  noted  in  the  other  groups  (4.7-6.4%).  A  different  pattern  was 
observed  when  expressed  per  patient-year: ivabradine  0.22,  ‘placebo’  0.23,  atenolol  0.15,  amlodipine 
0.20, and amlodipine+’placebo’ 0.21, showing a comparable rate in the ivabradine and amlodipine (with 
or without ‘placebo’) group, and a higher  rate versus atenolol. As expected, the highest incidences on 
SEAE’s  were  noted  for  serious  cardiac  disorders  in  all  groups  (1.3-3.7%).  The  incidence  of  serious 
coronary artery disorders with ivabradine was 2.6% compared to 0.6%-2.5% in the other groups. The 
rates  per  patient-year  were:  ivabradine  0.072,  ‘placebo’  0.031, atenolol 0.038, amlodipine 0.105, and 
amlodipine+’placebo’  0.075, again showing a comparable rate in the ivabradine and amlodipine (with 
‘placebo’) group, but a higher rate versus atenolol.  
38/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cardiac  arrhythmias  reported  as  SEAE’s  were  more  frequent  in the ivabradine group as compared to 
the other groups (1.1% vs. 0.2-0.7%; similarly also when the rates were expressed per patient-year of 
exposure). The combined incidence of serious sinus bradycardia and bradycardia NOS was very low in 
both the ivabradine (0.2%) and atenolol group (0.4%).  
The  long-term  open  extension  studies  CL3-022/044  were  not  included  in  the  OSS.    The  overall 
incidence of SEAE’s in study CL3-022 (ivabradine 7.5 mg b.i.d. only, n=659) and CL3-044 (ivabradine 
5, 7.5 or 10 mg b.i.d., n=558, data obtained up to cut-off date 31-10-2003) was higher compared to the 
OSS (15.8-17.8% vs. 8.1%, respectively), a reversed pattern was observed when rates were normalised 
to patient exposure (0.17 – 0.12 vs. 0.22). A similar pattern was observed for serious cardiac disorders 
in these extension studies (0.077 – 0.052 in studies CL3-022/044 vs. 0.10 in the OSS). 
In  the  OSS  a  total  of  32  patients  died  out  of  4059  patients  exposed  to  ivabradine  or  to  one  of  the 
comparators: 27/2907 patients in the ivabradine group (0.9% of the exposed patients), 1/435 patient in 
the  atenolol  group  (0.2%),  2/313  patients  in  the  placebo  group  (0.6%)  and  2/404  in  the  amlodipine 
group (0.5%). The incidence of deaths calculated in relation to the number of patient-years of exposure 
is presented in the Table 17 below: 
Table 17: Estimated incidence of deaths for 100 Patient-years - by treatment group - Overall Oral Safety Set 
N 
Patient-years 
Number deaths 
Incidence 
95% CI 
N: number of patients by group. Incidence expressed as number of death for 100 patient-years.  95% CI: Two-sided 95% confidence interval 
of the number of death for 100 patients-years based on Poisson distribution. 
Placebo 
313 
65.18 
2 
3.068 
[0.368, 11.092] 
Atenolol 
435 
201.86 
1 
0.495 
[0.015, 2.759] 
Ivabradine 
2907 
1107.23 
27 
2.439 
[1.607, 3.548] 
Amlodipine 
404 
95.86 
2 
2.086 
[0.250, 7.542] 
Thus,  the  death rates  were  higher  with ivabradine compared to atenolol and most of the deaths in the 
OSS under ivabradine were classified as arrhythmic, sudden or unexplained (17/27 = 63%). Death rates 
in the OSS were comparable with ivabradine and amlodipine. Overall,  the death rates with ivabradine 
and  amlodipine  were  in  line  with  those  given  by  ESC  guideline  on  stable  angina  pectoris  (2-3% 
mortality per annum in patients with stable angina; Eur Heart Journal 1997;18:394-413), but a  lower 
death rate was reported on atenolol in the OSS. 
Death rates in the extension studies (2.09 per 100 patient-years) were comparable to the OSS (2.44 per 
100 patient-years). 
The majority of cardiovascular deaths under ivabradine in the entire clinical programme (OSS plus the 
extension  studies)  was  classified  as  arrhythmic,  sudden  or  unexplained  (28/43  =  65.1%),  This 
proportion is similar to the proportion of sudden deaths in developed countries which is estimated to be 
65.6%  (Zheng  et  al,  Circulation  2001;104:2158-2163),  and  together  represents  a  pool  of  arrhythmic 
deaths at a rate of 1.10 per 100 pt-years. This rate was clearly higher versus atenolol (zero arrhythmic 
deaths)  and  somewhat  higher  compared  to  amlodipine  (1.05-0.0  arrhythmic  deaths  per  100  pt-years). 
However,  fewer  serious  coronary  artery  disorders  were  reported  with  ivabradine  compared  to 
amlodipine  (but  not  atenolol),  rendering  the  overall  death  rate  comparable  between  ivabradine  and 
amlodipine.  
Laboratory findings 
A  wide  spectrum  of  biochemical  parameters  (blood)  were  analysed:  sodium,  potassium,  calcium, 
chloride,  uric  acid,  CPK,  creatinine,  glucose,  HbA1c,  ASAT,  ALAT,  GGT,  total  cholesterol,  LDL 
cholesterol,  triglycerides.  Also,  various  haematological  parameters  were  analysed:  red  blood  cells, 
haemoglobin,  haematocrit,  white  blood  cells,  neutrophils,  basophils,  lymphocytes,  monocytes  and 
platelets.  For  all  these biochemical and haematological parameters, the changes noted with ivabradine 
were generally minor, comparable to other treatment groups and not considered of clinical relevance.  
39/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety in special populations 
Only limited  number of very elderly patients (>75 years of age; n=68) were included into the studies. 
No studies in patients < 18 years of age were carried out. These facts are reflected in SPC (4.2). 
Safety  was  comparable  among  subgroups  (with  limited  number  of  patients  in  many  subgroups) 
according to age or the presence of mild to moderate renal insufficiency, hypertension, mild to moderate 
heart  failure,  COPD,  asthma,  peripheral  vascular  disease,  diabetes,  hyperlipidaemia  and  obesity.  The 
mildly  increased  frequency  of  AEs  in  females  that  was  observed  for  almost  all  system  organ  classes, 
except for cardiac disorders was not confirmed when rates were normalised for patient exposure.  
Twelve subjects with mild to moderate hepatic insufficiency investigated in the study PKH-008 and the 
ivabradine-treated patients (n = 129 OSS excluding CL2-047) with elevated transaminases (>1.5 times 
ULN) included in the OSS had an ivabradine plasma exposure close to that of the overall population. 
No  safety  concern  was  raised  in  this  population.  No  data  in  patients  with  severe  hepatic  impairment 
were available. 
Unstable  angina  and  acute  myocardial  infarction  (MI)  were  infrequently  reported  during  the  clinical 
program. The Emergent Adverse Event (EAE) unstable angina was reported in 49 patients in the OSS 
and  14  patients  in  the  extension  studies  CL3-022  and  CL3-044.  The  EAE  MI  was  reported  in  18 
patients  in  the  OSS  and  29  patients  in  the  extension  studies.  Following  these  events,  treatment  with 
ivabradine  was  continued  by  23  of  the  63  patients  having  had  unstable  angina  and  by  14  of  the  47 
patients having experienced MI. For both unstable angina and MI, treatment with ivabradine was not a 
limitation  in  the appropriate management of the patients nor seemed to influence the outcome of these 
EAEs.  However  and  since  the  experience  was  limited,  the  use  of  ivabradine  is  contra-indicated  in 
patients with unstable angina and during the acute phase of MI. No data on patients with heart failure of 
NYHA class III-IV, and only limited data on patients with left ventricular dysfunction or NYHA class 
II heart failure were available. These findings are reflected in SPC (4.3, 4.4). 
During  the  evaluation  the  CHMP  requested  additional  analyses  in  high  risk  patients.  There  was  no 
evidence of increased frequency of coronary or arrhythmic events as compared to amlodipine either in 
patients at risk of coronary events and arrhythmia (patients with LVH  or with factors associated with 
LVD) and in the pooled set of patients at risk of arrhythmia (for definition of this subgroup in post-hoc 
analyses,  see  Clinical  efficacy  in  special  populations).  In  patients  with  HR  below  60  bpm  prior  to 
treatment  initiation  there  was  no  evidence  of  an  increased  risk  of  excessive  bradycardia-related 
symptoms, coronary  events or  arrhythmia when comparing the subset to the overall ivabradine-treated 
patient  population  and  to  atenolol-treated  patients.  The  risk of excessive bradycardia (below 40 bpm) 
was shown to be very low (<0.3% of patients) when treatment was initiated with a heart rate ≥ 60 bpm 
according  to  SPC  recommendations.  Overall  this  analysis  suggested  a  comparable  safety  profile  of 
ivabradine and amlodipine in high risk patients. 
40/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinuation due to adverse events  
The  overall  rates  on  treatment  discontinuation  were  substantial  across  all  treatment  groups,  with  the 
highest  rates  observed  in  the  ivabradine  (7.8%)  and  atenolol  (6.7%)  group,  and  lower  rates  in  the 
amlodipine  (5.2%)  and  ‘placebo’  (3.8%)  group.  This  incidence  pattern  changed  when  expressed  per 
patient-year of exposure: 0.21 in the ivabradine group relative to 0.16, 0.22, 0.19 and 0.21 per patient-
year of exposure in the atenolol, amlodipine, ‘placebo’ and amlodipine+’placebo’ group respectively.  
Most  treatment  discontinuations  were  due  to  cardiac  and  eye  disorders  in  the  ivabradine  group.  The 
incidence  of  cardiac  disorders  leading  to treatment discontinuation was 4.1% in the ivabradine group, 
3.0% in the atenolol group, 2.5% in the amlodipine group and 1.9% in the ‘placebo’ group. Once again, 
this  incidence  pattern  changed  when  expressed  in  patient-years  of  exposure:  0.11  in  the  ivabradine 
group  relative  to 0.07, 0.11, 0.09 and 0.10 per patient-year  in  the atenolol, amlodipine, ‘placebo’ and 
amlodipine+’placebo’  group,  resulting  in  comparable  rates  in  the  ivabradine  and  amlodipine  (with  or 
without ‘placebo’) group.  
Overall, the rates per patient-year of exposure on discontinuations with ivabradine were comparable to 
amlodipine (with or without ‘placebo’) while being higher compared to atenolol. 
Other 
Study  CL1-055  was  a  randomised  double-blind  placebo-controlled  phase  I  study  in  90  healthy 
volunteers with the objective to document the effects of high doses of ivabradine (10 and 15 mg b.i.d.) 
and  related  visual  symptoms  on  driving  performance  in  a  driving  simulator.  47  patients  receiving 
ivabradine  reported  visual  symptoms  during  the  study  whereas  28  did  not.  A  single  subject  reported 
visual symptoms during a driving session, after a series of flashes. No visual symptom was reported in 
the placebo group. Mean changes from baseline in driving performance criteria were comparable in all 
groups  (receiving  ivabradine  or  placebo;  with  or  without  visual  symptoms);  thus,  ivabradine  at doses 
higher than those recommended (10 to 15 mg b.i.d.) and the occurrence of visual symptoms triggered by 
flashes did not affect driving performance in comparison to placebo. However, the possible occurrence 
of  luminous  phenomena  should  be  taken  into  account  when  driving  or  using  machines  in  situations 
where  sudden  variations  in  light  intensity  may  occur,  especially  when  driving  at  night.  This  has been 
reflected in the SPC (4.7.). 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Ivabradine was studied in clinical trials involving nearly 5000 participants. Approximately 3000 
patients were treated with ivabradine in phase II-III trials. At the time of submission 216 patients had 
been treated over 12 months with ivabradine and 297 for >6 months; at the time of approval 713 had 
been treated for 1 year.  
The most common AEs with ivabradine were dose dependent and related to the pharmacological effect 
of the medicinal product. The most common AE was “luminous phenomena” (phosphenes), reported by 
14.5% of patients and described as a transient enhanced brightness in a limited area of the visual field, 
usually triggered by sudden variations in light intensity. The onset of phosphenes was generally within 
the first two months of treatment after which they may occur repeatedly; they were generally reported to 
be  of  mild  to  moderate  intensity,  and  resolved  during  or  after  treatment;  fewer  than  1%  of  patients 
changed their daily routine or discontinue the treatment in relation with phosphenes. Overall, thorough 
ophthalmic investigations did not indicate any clinically significant persisting deleterious effects due to 
ivabradine exposure on retinal function or morphology. Thus, there was no evidence to suggest that the 
frequently  observed  visual  symptoms  with  ivabradine  represented  a  toxic  effect  of  ivabradine  on  the 
retina.  Further  focused  surveillance  will  be  conducted  within  ongoing  and  planned  trials  and  post-
marketing. This is adequately detailed in the submitted pharmacovigilance plan. 
41/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other  most  common  AEs  included  bradycardia,  AV  1st  degree  block,  ventricular  extrasystoles, 
headaches, dizziness and blurred vision.  
Compared  to  atenolol,  a  direct  safety  comparison  from  pooled  studies  CL3-017/019  showed 
consistently  higher  rates  of  adverse  events,  serious  adverse  events,  discontinuations  and  deaths  with 
ivabradine;  these  findings  were  in  agreement  with  those  obtained  in  the  OSS  analysis.  The  effects  of 
ivabradine on cardiac events were thus less favourable compared to atenolol, although a more definite 
conclusion  would  require  an  outcome  study.  It  should  also  be  recognised  that  beta-blockers  have 
beneficial  effects  beyond  reduction  of  heart  rate.  Pharmacodynamic  and  clinical  studies  did  not  raise 
suspicion  that  ivabradine  itself  would  have  detrimental  effects  on  cardiovascular  morbidity  and 
mortality, but data were limited.  
Compared to calcium antagonists the data suggest that the safety profile of ivabradine is comparable to 
amlodipine,  with  rather  comparable  rates  on  the  aforementioned  main  indicators  of  safety.  However, 
only one comparator from the heterogeneous group of calcium channel blockers was studied: no definite 
conclusions could be drawn on this issue. 
The data on QTcP changes did not raise safety concerns with respect to ivabradine and the duration of 
ventricular repolarisation. 
Ivabradine was metabolised by CYP3A4, but it did not influence metabolism or plasma concentrations 
of other CYP3A4 substrates. CYP3A4 inhibitors and inducers, however, could interact with ivabradine 
and  influence  its  metabolism  and  pharmacokinetics  to  a  clinically  significant  extent.  Drug-drug 
interaction  studies  established  that  CYP3A4  inhibitors  increased  ivabradine  plasma  concentrations, 
while inducers decreased them. Thus, the concomitant use of ivabradine with potent CYP3A4 inhibitors 
is  contra-indicated,  and  with  moderate  inhibitors  or  inducers  of  CYP3A4  ivabradine  should  be  used 
with caution. (SPC 4.4 and 4.5). 
Only limited data were available of the use of ivabradine in the very elderly (>75 years of age), patients 
with  severe  renal  insufficiency,  moderate  hepatic  insufficiency,  and  therefore  caution  should  be 
exercised when used in these patient groups. Ivabradine is not recommended in children or adolescents, 
as no data were available. Use of ivabradine is contraindicated (or there is a special warning) in several 
cardiovascular  diseases  (e.g.  acute  MI,  unstable  angina,  HF  with  NYHA functional classification III-
IV) and in patients with severe hepatic impairment due to lack of sufficient data. At the time of CHMP 
Opinion a clinical outcome trial was being carried out in patients with LVD (described in a separate risk 
management  plan),  but  until  more  data  become  available,  use  of  ivabradine  in  patients  with 
asymptomatic LVD and NYHA class II HF is included into precautions (SPC 4.4). 
The heart rate lowering effect of ivabradine was dose dependent at the dose levels of 2.5, 5, 7.5 and 0–
10 mg and the heart rate reduction levels off in a dose range of 10-20 mg b.i.d. In patients with angina 
pectoris,  mild  to  moderate  bradycardia  (40–50  bpm)  is  generally  not  a  major  safety  issue.  HR  can 
usually be registered by the patients, and causality to dosage and symptoms recognised. However, use 
of  ivabradine  is  limited  to  patients  with  contraindication  or  intolerance  to  beta-blockers,  and  in  this 
group  tendency  to  excessive,  symptomatous  bradycardia  is  not  uncommon.  Therefore,  the  applicant 
committed to perform a clinical risk management plan to further evaluate the issue of bradycardia. 
There  was  no  evidence  for  deleterious  effect  of  ivabradine  in  patients  with  AF  and  patients  with  AF 
were  successfully  converted  to  sinus  rhythm  by  either  amiodarone  or  DC  cardioversion  while  treated 
with ivabradine without evidence for excessive bradycardia on return to sinus rhythm. However, there is 
still theoretical basis for paroxysmal tachyarrhythmias including AF as a sympathetic response to HR-
lowering effect of ivabradine. In patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (PAF), ivabradine did not 
demonstrate any prevention of symptomatic PAF attacks and did not increase the rate of PAF attacks in 
comparison  to  placebo.  In  comparison  to  beta-blockers  (first  line  drugs  in  angina)  ivabradine  has  no 
42/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
anti-arrhythmic  efficacy.  Further  focused  surveillance  will  be  conducted  within  ongoing  and  planned 
trials and post-marketing. This is adequately detailed in the submitted pharmacovigilance plan. 
It was recommended to regularly clinically monitor ivabradine-treated patients for the occurrence of AF 
(sustained  or  paroxysmal),  including  ECG-monitoring  when  clinically  indicated  (e.g.  in  case  of 
exacerbated angina, palpitations, irregular pulse). (This is reflected in SPC 4.4.) 
The applicant commits to conduct a survey to analyse how ivabradine is prescribed in the daily medical 
practice.  
Due to (albeit infrequent) thymus atrophy findings in non-clinical studies, the applicant also committed 
to pay special attention to possible changes in immune system function that will be addressed as a post-
marketing commitment.  
5.  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  nonclinical  pharmacology  programme  characterised  ivabradine  as  a  selective  inhibitor  of  the 
cardiac  pacemaker  If-current  resulting  in  a  specific  heart-rate  reduction.  The  cardiac  effects  of 
ivabradine were specific of the sinus node, with no effect on left ventricular contractility and relaxation, 
cardiac conduction (atrioventricular or intraventricular) or ventricular repolarisation. 
Reproductive toxicity studies showed no effect of ivabradine on fertility in male and female rats. When 
pregnant animals were treated during organogenesis at exposures close to therapeutic doses, there was a 
higher  incidence  of  foetuses  with  cardiac  defects  in  the  rat  and  a  small  number  of  foetuses  with 
ectrodactylia  in  the  rabbit.  Animal  studies  indicated  that  ivabradine  was  excreted  in  milk.  Therefore, 
ivabradine was contra-indicated during pregnancy and in breast-feeding women.  
In  dogs  given  ivabradine  (doses  of  2,  7  or  24mg/kg/day)  for  one  year,  reversible  changes  in  retinal 
function were observed but were not associated with any damage to ocular structures. These data were 
consistent with the pharmacological effect of ivabradine related to its interaction with hyperpolarisation-
activated  Ih  currents  in  the  retina,  which  share  extensive  homology  with  the  cardiac  pacemaker  If 
current. 
Other long-term repeated dose and carcinogenicity studies revealed no clinically relevant changes. 
Overall, the preclinical findings suggested that ivabradine does not pose a significant hazard to humans 
at therapeutic doses. 
Efficacy 
Metabolism of ivabradine involved CYP3A4. Ivabradine was neither an inducer nor an inhibitor of main 
drug-metabolising enzymes. The extensive pharmacokinetic drug-drug interaction programme 
performed in humans demonstrated the absence of interaction of ivabradine with other CYP3A4 
substrates. Conversely, the exposure profile of ivabradine may be affected by strong and moderate 
CYP3A4 inhibitors or inducers. 
The clinical efficacy of ivabradine was evaluated using standardised exercise tolerance tests in four well 
conducted,  large-scale,  repeated-administration,  randomised,  controlled  phase  IIb-III  studies.  Three  of 
these  compared  ivabradine  monotherapy  with  placebo  or  with  the  standard  anti-anginal  therapies 
atenolol or amlodipine; the add-on study compared ivabradine to placebo during background amlodipine 
43/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment. Additionally, the effect of ivabradine in preventing angina symptoms was evaluated in three 
1-year safety studies.  
In the reference-controlled study versus atenolol ivabradine 5 and 7.5 mg twice daily was shown to be 
effective on exercise test parameters within 3 to 4 weeks of treatment. Total exercise duration at trough 
was  increased  by  about  1  minute  after  one  month  of  treatment  with  5  mg  twice  daily  and  further 
improved by almost 25 seconds after an additional 3-month period with forced titration to 7.5 mg twice 
daily. The efficacy of 5 and 7.5 mg twice daily was relatively consistent across studies on exercise test 
parameters (total exercise duration, time to limiting angina, time to angina onset and time to 1mm ST 
segment depression). 
The clinical efficacy of ivabradine 7.5 mg twice daily was found comparable to that of amlodipine. No 
further studies comparing ivabradine with other calcium channel blockers were conducted. 
Ivabradine  efficacy  was  maintained  throughout  the  3-  or  4-month  treatment  periods  in  the  efficacy 
trials.  There  was  no  evidence  of  pharmacological  tolerance  (loss  of  efficacy)  developing  during 
treatment nor of rebound phenomena after abrupt treatment discontinuation. The anti-anginal and anti-
ischaemic effects of ivabradine were associated with dose-dependent reductions in heart rate and with a 
significant  decrease  in  rate  pressure  product  (heart  rate  x  systolic  blood  pressure)  at  rest  and  during 
exercise. The effects on blood pressure and peripheral vascular resistance were minor and not clinically 
significant. 
Long-term efficacy on angina symptoms was studied as a secondary endpoint in three open-label 1-year 
safety follow-up studies including patients receiving combined background anti-anginal therapies such 
as  calcium  channel  blockers  and  long  acting  nitrates.  A  sustained  reduction  of  heart  rate  and  the 
decrease  of  angina  attacks  were  demonstrated  in  these  patients.  Exercise  testing  was  not  performed 
beyond 4 months of treatment in any of the clinical studies. 
Concomitant use of ivabradine with heart rate reducing calcium channel blockers such as verapamil or 
diltiazem is not recommended (see SPC sections 4.4 and 4.5). In a randomised placebo-controlled study, 
ivabradine did not show additional efficacy on top of amlodipine at the trough of drug activity while an 
additional efficacy was shown at peak. 
Safety 
Ivabradine was studied in clinical trials involving nearly 5,000 participants. Approximately 3,000 
patients have been treated with ivabradine in phase II-III studies. 
The most common AEs with ivabradine were dose dependent and related to the pharmacological effect 
of the medicinal product. The most common  adverse effect was “luminous phenomena”  (phosphenes), 
reported by 14.5% of patients and described as a transient enhanced brightness in a limited area of the 
visual  field,  usually  triggered  by  sudden  variations  in  light  intensity.  The  onset  of  phosphenes  was 
generally within the first two months of treatment after which they could occur repeatedly. They were 
generally  reported  to  be  of  mild  to  moderate  intensity,  and  resolved  during  or  after  treatment.  Fewer 
than  1%  of  patients  changed  their  daily  routine  or  discontinued  the  treatment  in  relation  with 
phosphenes. In non clinical studies, there was no evidence of retinal toxicity with the use of ivabradine. 
Further  focused  surveillance  will  be  conducted  within  ongoing  and  planned  trials and post-marketing. 
This is adequately detailed in the submitted pharmacovigilance plan. 
Other  most  common  AEs  included  bradycardia,  AV  1st  degree  block,  ventricular  extrasystoles, 
headaches, dizziness and blurred vision.  
The data on QTcP changes did not raise safety concerns with respect to ivabradine and the duration of 
ventricular repolarisation. 
44/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Several precautions and contraindications were included into the SPC (4.3-4.4) to allow the safe use of 
ivabradine 
treatment  of  angina  pectoris.  The  applicant  has  submitted  a  relevant 
pharmacovigilance plan. 
the 
in 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The main issue in the overall benefit/risk assessment was the potential place of ivabradine in the current 
treatment  of  chronic  stable  angina  pectoris,  with  beta-blockers  and  calcium  channel  blockers 
respectively as established first- and second-line therapies.  
Ivabradine  shares  with  beta-blockers  similar  heart  rate  reducing  effects,  which  remain  one  key 
therapeutic objective in stable angina. Beta-blockers have additional beneficial effects beyond reduction 
of heart rate and in contrast to beta-blockers, ivabradine is devoid of anti-arrhythmic effect. Ivabradine 
showed comparable anti-anginal efficacy versus atenolol. Safety data indicated a less favourable safety 
profile  in  terms  of  cardiac  events,  events  leading  to  treatment  discontinuations  and  deaths. 
Pharmacodynamic  and  clinical  studies  did  not  raise  suspicion  that  ivabradine  itself  would  have 
detrimental effects on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality but data were limited. Final conclusions 
were difficult to draw, as these studies were not designed to show whether ivabradine confers a benefit 
in  terms  of  morbidity  and  mortality  in  patients  with  coronary  artery  disease.  The  benefit/risk  ratio of 
ivabradine  was  overall  considered  less  favourable  compared to atenolol, and therefore ivabradine was 
considered  as  an  alternative  treatment  for  those  patients  who  have  contra-indication  or  intolerance  to 
beta-blockers. 
A second issue was whether further restriction of the indication would be warranted with regard to 
calcium antagonists. Overall, the benefit/risk ratio of ivabradine was found comparable to that of 
amlodipine. In contrast to amlodipine, ivabradine had the potential to induce bradycardia (risk factor for 
arrhythmia), which raised some concern in the absence of anti-arrhythmic efficacy and with the 
potential for pharmacokinetic interactions. However, the possibility of dosing patients with the 
ivabradine dose of 10 mg twice daily was withdrawn and heart rate threshold for treatment initiation 
was raised to 60 bpm, thus minimising the risk of excessive bradycardia. No comparisons with non-
dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers such as diltiazem were made.  
Overall, the CHMP concluded that ivabradine had demonstrated anti-anginal and anti-ischemic effects 
in patients with chronic stable angina pectoris, and that ivabradine safety profile was shown comparable 
to  that  of  amlodipine  although  no  safety  advantage  was  evidenced  in  the  limited  comparison  of  both 
treatments in study CL3-023. 
The CHMP came to the conclusion that sufficient overall data had been provided for granting the MA 
for  a  second  line  indication:  symptomatic  treatment  of  chronic  stable  angina  pectoris  in  patients  with 
normal  sinus  rhythm  ,  who  have  a  contra-indication  or  intolerance  for  beta-blockers.  This  indication, 
together with other recommendations and warnings in the SPC (4.2, 4.4), addressed the current lack of 
evidence for add-on efficacy of ivabradine in patients with insufficient response to either beta-blockers 
or  calcium  channel  blockers,  and  also  addressed  the  safety  concerns  regarding  the  combination  of 
ivabradine with beta-blockers and non-dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers. It enabled ivabradine 
to become a treatment alternative when beta-blockers are not suitable  
There was no evidence to suggest that the frequently observed visual symptoms with ivabradine (mainly 
phosphenes)  represented  a  toxic  effect  of  ivabradine  on  the  retina.  The  long-term  ocular  safety  of 
patients exposed to ivabradine was documented in the development programme up to one year. The data 
on QTcP changes did not raise safety concerns with respect to ivabradine and the duration of ventricular 
repolarisation. The potential of ivabradine to induce bradycardia was minimised in the target population 
with  a  treatment  initiation  heart  rate  raised  to  60  bpm  with  the  recommended  therapeutic  doses. 
Furthermore,  the  applicant  submitted  a  relevant  pharmacovigilance  plan,  detailing  how  some  specific 
ophthalmic, cardiac or immune system adverse events will be addressed within ongoing or planned trials 
and within post-marketing pharmacovigilance activities.  
45/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  conclusion,  ivabradine  has  sufficient  anti-anginal  effect  and  acceptable  safety  profile,  and  thus 
provides a treatment alternative to patients with chronic stable angina pectoris with normal sinus rhythm 
who have a contra-indication or intolerance for beta-blockers. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of  Corlentor  in  the  treatment  of  chronic  stable  angina pectoris  with  normal 
sinus rhythm who have a contra-indication or intolerance for beta-blockers was favourable and therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
46/46 

EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
