European Medicines Agency 
London, 23 October 2009 
Doc. Ref: EMA/816716/2009 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
FOR 
Corlentor 
International non-proprietary name/Common name: 
ivabradine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/598/II/0010 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION  
I.I 
Introduction 
Procoralan  and  Corlentor  have  been  registered  through  a  Centralised  Procedure  in  2005  with  the 
Netherlands being the Rapporteur for the indication: 
“Symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris in patients with normal sinus rhythm, who 
have a contra-indication or intolerance for beta-blockers”.   
The  active  ingredient,  ivabradine,  is  a  heart  rate  lowering  agent,  acting  by  reducing  the  rate  of 
pacemaker activity in the sinoatrial node. Ivabradine is a selective inhibitor of the cardiac pacemaker 
current  If,  that  plays  a  key  role  during  the  early  phase  of  spontaneous  diastolic  depolarisation  in 
sinoatrial node cells. Inhibition of If reduces the slope of spontaneous diastolic depolarisation, thereby 
increasing the time required to reach the voltage threshold for action potential initiation and slowing 
the  spontaneous  firing  and  therefore  heart  rate.  Ivabradine  is  the  first  agent  of  this  type  for  which 
marketing approval is sought.  
Anti-anginal  therapy  is  intended  in  patients  with  stable  angina  for  1)  symptom  relief,  generally 
sublingual  short-acting  nitrates  are  used  and  2)  prophylaxis,  for  which  beta-blockers  are  first-line 
agents.  Calcium  antagonists  are  mostly  a  second-line  alternative  when  beta-blockers  are 
contraindicated  or  ineffective  (or  in  combination  when  beta-blockers  alone  are  insufficient). 
Ivabradine  belongs  to  a  new  therapeutic  class  of  anti-ischaemic  agents  with  a  new  mode  of  action; 
with  specific  negative  chronotropic  action.  This  new  concept  involves  decreasing  the  heart  rate  and 
increasing  the  duration  of  diastole,  to  improve  the  balance  between  myocardial  oxygen  supply  and 
demand as well as coronary perfusion. 
In this procedure, the MAH is submitting a type II variation to amend the indication to:  
“Symptomatic  treatment  of  chronic  stable  angina  pectoris  in  coronary  artery  disease  patients  with 
normal  sinus  rhythm.  Ivabradine  is  indicated  in  patients  already  treated  with  a  beta-blocker,  or 
unable to tolerate or with a contraindication to the use of beta-blockers.” 
The requested variation is based on study CL3-057 that was already ongoing during the Centralised 
Procedure  in  2005.  The  study  is  a  4-month  randomised  double  blind  parallel-group  international 
multicentre study, evaluating the anti-anginal efficacy and safety of oral administration of ivabradine 
compared  to  placebo  on  top  of  background  therapy  with  atenolol  in  patients  with  stable  angina 
pectoris.  The  results  of  that  study  were  presented  and  assessed  earlier  when  it  was  submitted  as  a 
follow-up measure (FUM) [EMEA/H/C/597-598/FUM/009] in the Summer of 2008.  
At that time, no SPC claim was made by the MAH, as it was a Follow-Up Measure. 
In the following part of this report, the study CL3-057 is discussed and the MAH argumented that a 
suitable patient population and dose of atenolol were used in study CL3-057. 
I.2 
Clinical aspects 
I.2.1 Clinical study CL3-057 
I.2.1.1 Study design and objectives  
Study objectives:  
The primary objective of this study was to demonstrate the superior efficacy of ivabradine (5 mg b.i.d. 
then  7.5  mg  b.i.d.  given  orally  for  2  months  each) versus  placebo,  when  given  in  combination  with 
atenolol (50 mg daily), in patients with stable chronic effort angina pectoris who still present a positive 
exercise  tolerance  test  (ETT),  with  or  without  symptomatic  angina  in  everyday  life.  The  primary 
efficacy criterion was the improvement between baseline and end of 4 months of treatment (M4) in the 
total  exercise  duration  (TED)  on  a  treadmill  ETT  according  to  the  standard  Bruce  protocol  at  the 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
trough of ivabradine and atenolol activity (i.e. 12 ± 1 hours and 24 ± 2 hours post-dosing, respectively) 
on centralised reading values. 
The secondary objectives were:  
To demonstrate the superior efficacy of ivabradine on: 
•  The improvement between baseline and end of treatment (M4) of the other ETT criteria at the 
trough of drug administration. 
•  The improvement between baseline and end of the first 2 month treatment period (M2) of all 
ETT criteria at the trough of drug administration. 
•  To compare the safety and tolerance profile of ivabradine (5 mg b.i.d. then 7.5 mg b.i.d.) to 
placebo when given in combination with atenolol (50 mg o.d.) 
Measuring efficacy 
ETTs  were  performed  3  times  during  the  run-in  and  twice  under  treatment,  at  M2  and  M4.  The 
following parameters were measured: Total exercise duration (TED, s) (primary criterion), time to 1 
mm ST segment depression (TST, s), time to angina onset (TAO, s), time to limiting angina (TLA, s), 
heart rate (HR) at rest and at peak of exercise (bpm), rate pressure product (RPP) at rest and at peak of 
exercise (bpm x mmHg), and reason for stopping exercise. 
Study Design:  
A randomised double-blind placebo-control parallel-group international multicentre study. After a run-
in period lasting 6 to 8 weeks on atenolol (50 mg o.d.) and placebo (b.i.d.), patients complying with 
inclusion criteria  were  randomised  to  receive  either  ivabradine (5  mg  b.i.d. then  7.5  mg  b.i.d.  given 
orally for 2 months each) or placebo, in combination with atenolol (50 mg o.d.). ETT were performed 
3  times  during  the  run-in  period  (the  first  two  at  selection  visits  and  the  third  one  5  days  before 
inclusion visit) and once at the end of each treatment period (i.e. at M2 and M4). 
Preselection 
Inclusion and 
randomisation  
Forced  
up-titration 
Placebo bid + atenolol
Placebo bid + 
atenolol (n = 440)
Placebo bid 
+atenolol 
Ivabradine 5 mg bid
+ atenolol (n = 449)
Ivabradine 7.5 mg bid 
+ atenolol 
ETT
ETT
ETT
ETT
ETT
Run-in period (single-blind) 
Treatment period (double-blind) 
2-4 weeks 2 weeks 2 weeks 
2 months
2 months 
M0 
visit 
M2 
visit 
M4 
visit 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
Choice of background and comparator therapy 
All patients were treated with atenolol (50 mg o.d.) throughout the study. During the run-in period, 6 
weeks  for  patients  previously  treated  with  atenolol  50  mg  daily  and  8 weeks  for  patients  previously 
treated with another beta-blocker at equivalent dose, patients received a placebo. Then, patients who 
fulfilled the inclusion criteria were randomised to either placebo or ivabradine at 5 mg b.i.d. dose for 
the first 2 months and then a 7.5 mg b.i.d. dose for the following 2 months  
For  patients  having  received  other  beta-blocker  treatment  the  following  doses  were  considered 
equivalent to atenolol 50 mg o.d: 
- Atenolol 25 mg b.i.d. 
- Betaxolol 20 mg o.d. 
- Bisoprolol 5-10 mg o.d. 
- Metoprolol 50 mg b.i.d. 
- LA metoprolol 50-100 mg o.d. 
- Propranolol 80-160 mg o.d. 
- Carvedilol  12.5 mg b.i.d  
The table below shows pre-study beta blocker therapy in the randomised set 
Beta blocking agents  
 Atenolol 
 Metoprolol 
 Metoprolol succinate 
 Bisoprolol fumarate 
 Bisoprolol 
 Metoprolol tartarate  
 Betataxolol hydrochloride  
 Carvedilol  
 Propranolol  
Ivabradine 
(N = 449) 
n (%)  
449 (100) 
 263 (58.6) 
 43 (9.6) 
47 (10.5) 
 45 (10.0) 
 20 (4.5) 
 14 (3.1) 
 9 (2.0) 
 21 (4.7) 
2 (0.4) 
Placebo  
(N = 440)  
n (%) 
439 (99.8)  
253 (57.5)  
50 (11.4)  
41 (9.3)  
39 (8.9)  
24 (5.5)  
16 (3.6)  
1 (0.2)  
14 (3.2)  
10 (2.3) 
All 
(N = 889) 
n (%)  
888 (99.9) 
516 (58.0) 
93 (10.5) 
88 (9.9) 
84 (9.4) 
44 (4.9) 
30 (3.4) 
10 (1.1) 
35 (3.9) 
12 (1.3) 
Patients were men or women, aged 18-75 years, with a history of stable chronic effort angina pectoris 
for at least 3 months prior to pre-selection, with no angina at rest and no angina of class IV (classified 
by  the  Canadian  Cardiovascular  Society),  with  documented  CAD,  and  treated  for  at  least  3  months 
preceding pre-selection by atenolol 50 mg daily or by a beta-blocker at an equivalent dose and a heart 
rate at pre-selection ≥ 60 bpm on atenolol (50 mg o.d.) or equivalent betablocker treatment. Patients 
were to have three positive exercise tolerance tests during the run-in, with the  second and third being 
stable. 
I.2.1.2 Study results 
•  Efficacy results :  
Baseline 
Randomisation was successful as both treatment arms show similar baseline characteristics. The study 
population existed indeed of patients with documented CAD of which >70% having had an MI, PTCA 
or CABG. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
5 
 
 
Primary Efficacy 
The  between  group  difference  in  total  exercise  duration  over  the  4-month  period  was  significant  in 
favour of a greater increase in the ivabradine group (16.3 s (95% CI [7.9; 24.7]). This improvement 
was  numerically  smaller  than  in the  previous study  of  ivabradine  monotherapy  using  treadmill  ETT 
(study  CL3-017),  but  this  is  to  be  expected  since  the  modified  Bruce  protocol  with  a  more  gradual 
increase in workload was used in CL3-017. The improvements in exercise time in study CL3-057 were 
obtained at a substantial workload. An improvement was also observed over the 2-month period (8.2 s 
(95% CI [0.6 ; 15.7]). This was also observed for resting HR after 4 months (before ETT standing at 
trough of drug activity). Mean change HR was -10.8 ± 10.8 bpm versus -2.2 ± 10.1 bpm (diff -8.8 bpm 
(95% CI: [-10.0 ; -7.6])). At the peak of exercise  this was  -11.3 ± 13.2 bpm versus -0.9 ± 12.3 bpm, 
respectively,  (diff  of  -10.8  bpm  (95%CI:  [-12.4  ;  -9.1])).  The  overall  change  in  heart  rate  at  rest  in 
supine position observed in the ivabradine group was 67.0 ± 6.9 bpm at baseline to 58.4 ± 8.7 bpm at 
month 4. Also, rate pressure product decreased to a greater extent in the ivabradine group than in the 
placebo group, both at rest and at peak of exercise. 
No changes were observed in the number of anginal attacks or short acting nitrates (SAN), see table 
below. 
Post hoc analyses in view of concerns over suboptimally dosed atenolol  
Post-hoc  complementary  analyses  of  ETT  results  were  performed  in  the  subgroups  of  patients  (1) 
whose heart rate was ≤ 65 bpm at baseline, and (2) whose background beta-blocker dose was judged to 
be maximal, due to a resting heart rate ≤ 60 bpm and/or supine systolic blood pressure ≤ 100 mmHg 
and/or mean PR interval ≥ 200 ms at baseline.  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Improvements in ETT criteria (at 4-months) with ivabradine in both subgroups were similar to those 
observed in the FAS, showing that ivabradine improved exercise capacity in patients whose baseline 
heart rate was relatively low, and in patients for whom an increase in beta-blocker dose would have 
been impossible. 
•  Safety results :  
Seven  patients  in  ivabradine  group  (1.6%)  were  withdrawn  due  to  non-serious  adverse  events,  5 
amongst them were withdrawn for adverse events indicated as common in the SPC of ivabradine i.e. 
bradycardia/HR decreased or dizziness and related to study drug. 
The incidence of treatment-related adverse events was 9.1% in the ivabradine group versus 2.7 % in 
the placebo group, mainly bradycardia (asymptomatic or symptomatic, 4.2% versus 0.5%) and visual 
adverse events (2.0% versus 0.9%). No severe case was reported. No patients were withdrawn for a 
visual adverse event. Phosphenes, which are commonly reported with ivabradine, were observed in 5 
patients  (1.1%)  in  the  ivabradine  group  versus  3  (0.7%)  in  the  placebo  group.  Emergent  events  of 
ventricular  extrasystoles  were  more  frequent  in  the  ivabradine  group  (6  patients;  1.3%)  than  in  the 
placebo group (1 patient; 0.2%). Relatively unexpected was difference amongst the 2 treatment groups 
in the incidence of emergent angina pectoris (6 patients (1.3%) versus 0), which appears to be due to 
the natural progression of the disease in a small number of patients in the ivabradine group, and the 
incidence of “blood pressure inadequately controlled” (11 patients (2.4%) versus 2 on placebo), where 
it  was  noted  that  all  concerned  patients  had  a  medical  history  of  hypertension  and  that  none  of  the 
occurrences were considered as being related to the study drug by investigators. No clinically relevant 
changes were observed in the Safety Set in biochemical parameters or in vital signs. One suicide in the 
procoralan group was reported and two patients in the placebo group died after last study drug intake, 
one from myocardial infarction, and the other from sudden death. No death was related to the study 
treatment. 
While the proportion of patients with ECG abnormalities was slightly higher at baseline in the 
ivabradine group (85.6%) than in the placebo group (80.9%), these percentages remained stable during 
the treatment period. Of note were 21 emergent cases of first degree AV block at last assessment under 
treatment, observed in the ivabradine group (a known abnormality with ivabradine treatment), versus 
11 in the placebo group. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I.2.2 Supportive clinical data 
Study CL3-056 (BEAUTIFUL)  
Study  CL3-056  (BEAUTIFUL)  is  a  three-year,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled, 
international  multicentre  study  assessing  the  effects  of  ivabradine  on  mortality  and  CV  events  in 
patients with stable CAD and LV systolic dysfunction. The study protocol had been developed with 
the purpose of demonstrating that ivabradine may prevent the aggravation of CAD and therefore the 
incidence  of  CV  events  such  as  acute  MI,  hospitalisation  for  heart  failure  and  CV  deaths  in  a 
population  with  documented  CAD  which  is  at  particularly  high  risk  in  the  presence  of  LV  systolic 
dysfunction. Since no specific guidelines are available in this area, the company requested a scientific 
advice on the study protocol with the objective to review whether the study design and the combined 
primary  endpoint  (MI,  hospitalisation  for  heart  failure,  CV  death)  were  consistent  with  the  above-
mentioned objective.  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study CL3-056 was markedly different in design and patient population to phase III studies performed 
in the course of the pre-Marketing Authorisation clinical programme. It involved a wide spectrum of 
patients (N=10907), including those with mild, asymptomatic LV dysfunction through to those with 
moderate heart failure symptoms and  markedly impaired LV systolic function. In addition, included 
patients were at markedly higher risk of major cardiac events and death than patients in other phase III 
studies.  Overall,  a  majority  of  patients  differed  from  the  scope  of  the  current  registered  indication. 
However,  some  results  particularly  from  subgroup  analyses  are  directly  relevant  to  the  approved 
indication in patients with chronic stable angina pectoris. For example a substantial number of patients 
had their physical activity limited by anginal pain at baseline (N=1507), and the efficacy and safety of 
ivabradine in this subgroup is of obvious relevance for the claimed indication.  
All patients in study CL3-056 (BEAUTIFUL) had CAD and left ventricular (LV) systolic dysfunction 
(ejection fraction < 40%) (figure 2).  
Angina was the main limiting factor in 1507 patients. The subgroup of patients with anginal symptoms 
at baseline, and particularly those receiving concomitant beta-blockers is of particular interest as this is 
the subgroup of the greatest relevance to the present indication of ivabradine in stable angina and to 
the  requested  variation  of  indication  to  use  ivabradine  in  combination  with  betablockers.  The 
following aspects are discussed: 
•  Adjudicated efficacy endpoints and adjudicated endpoints with an outcome of death 
• 
•  Adverse events related to cardiac arrhythmias  
•  Bradycardia 
•  Angina pectoris as an adverse event  
Investigator assigned adverse events with an outcome of death 
Adjudicated efficacy endpoints and adjudicated endpoints with an outcome of death 
Patients with stable angina 
In  patients  with  stable  angina  (N  =  1507),  there  was  a  significant  24%  reduction  in  the  primary 
composite  endpoint  (hazard  ratio  0.76,  p  =  0.05),  and  a  42%  reduction  in  hospitalisation  for 
myocardial infarction (hazard ratio 0.58, p = 0.022). Overall, in patients with stable angina, ivabradine 
produced significant  benefits in terms  of the  primary  composite  outcome  and  myocardial infarction, 
and  numerical  but  nonsignificant  benefits  in  all-cause  and  cardiovascular  mortality  (8.7%  vs  10.0% 
and 7.4% vs 8.3%, respectively).  
Patients with stable angina and taking beta-blockers 
Results for patients taking beta-blockers (N = 1351) were comparable to those in the full stable angina 
subgroup,  with  consistent  reductions  in  incidences  of  the  primary  composite  endpoint  and  in 
secondary endpoints (table 8). 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analyses of adjudicated causes of death did not evidence any signal of increased risk of arrhythmic or 
sudden  death  with  ivabradine;  both  death  from  presumed  arrhythmia  and  sudden  death  of  unknown 
cause  were  also  lower  with  ivabradine  than  with  placebo  (table  9).  Thus,  cause-specific  mortality 
results  in  this  subgroup  did  not  evidence  any  pro-arrhythmic  effect  of  ivabradine  in  stable  angina 
patients. 
LV subgroups and NYHA classes subgroups (in patients with AP and beta-blocker) 
The efficacy of ivabradine in patients with stable angina taking beta-blockers in study CL3-056 was 
also  evaluated  in  subgroups  with  different  degrees  of  LV  systolic  dysfunction  (patients  with  LV 
ejection fraction ≥ 35% and < 35%) and with different NYHA classes (class II and class III). There 
was no evidence of any systematic cause for concern with the use of ivabradine in combination with 
beta-blockers in patients with more or less severe LV dysfunction or NYHA class II or Class III for 
all-cause death (table 14), cardiovascular death (table 15), arrhythmia and sudden death (table 16), and 
myocardial infarction (table 17). 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 
 
 
 
Safety results of study CL3-056 
Investigator assigned adverse events with an outcome of death 
All patients 
In  the  full  study  population  of  study  CL3-056,  the  overall  incidence  of  all  adverse  events  with  an 
outcome of death was slightly higher in the ivabradine group (575 patients, 10.5%) than with placebo 
(548 patients, 10.1%), but the between-group difference was not significant (p = 0.515; Table 18). The 
incidence  of  death  and  sudden  death  was  also  numerically  higher  in  the  ivabradine  group  (306 
patients,  5.6%)  than  with  placebo  (264  patients,  4.9%),  but  the  difference  was  not  significant  (p  = 
0.097). 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The incidences of deaths related to cardiac disorders, and specifically those due to heart failure, were 
numerically slightly lower in the ivabradine group (table 18). 
The only statistically significant differences were lower rates in the ivabradine group for death due to 
cardiogenic  shock  (p  =  0.002)  and  coronary  artery  disorders  NEC  (p  =  0.030).  The  clinical 
significance, if any, of these particular lower rates with ivabradine, is not clear, and it is possible they 
may  be  due  to  chance.  When  large  numbers  of  statistical  comparisons  are  performed,  as  here,  it  is 
likely that some comparisons will approach or even exceed the significance threshold simply due to 
random sampling effects. Alternatively, they may reflect the absence of adjudication of the causes of 
death in this analysis. 
Patients with stable angina 
In patients with stable angina, the overall incidence of all adverse events with an outcome of death was 
slightly lower in the ivabradine group (64 patients, 8.7%) than with placebo (77 patients, 10.0%), but 
the between-group difference was not significant (p = 0.505). The incidence of death and sudden death 
was similar in both groups (ivabradine 39 patients, 5.3%; placebo 39 patients, 5.1%; p = 0.910). The 
incidence of deaths related to cardiac disorders was lower in the ivabradine group (12 patients, 1.6%) 
13 
 
than with placebo (21 patients, 2.7%) although the difference was again not significant (p = 0.206). 
The incidence of deaths related to cardiac arrhythmias was low and similar in both groups (2 patients 
in each, p = 1.000). 
Patients with stable angina taking beta-blockers 
According  to  the  applicant,  as  with  the  subgroup  of  all  patients  with  stable  angina,  there  was  no 
evidence  of  an  increased  risk  of  death  or  any  pro-arrhythmic  effect  of  ivabradine  in  patients  with 
stable angina taking beta-blockers (table 19). The incidence of death and sudden death was similar in 
both  groups  (ivabradine  36  patients,  5.5%;  placebo  37  patients,  5.3%;  p  =  0.973).  The  incidence  of 
deaths  related  to  cardiac  arrhythmias  was  low  and  similar  in  both  groups  (2  patients  in  each,  p  = 
1.000). 
 The  rate  of  deaths  related  to  cardiac  disorders  were  numerically  lower  with  ivabradine  than  with 
placebo, but the difference was not significant. 
Adverse events related to cardiac arrhythmias  
A detailed analysis was performed on adverse events related to cardiac arrhythmias in the full study 
population,  patients  with  stable  angina,  patients  with  stable  angina  taking  beta-blockers,  and 
14 
 
 
 
 
subgroups with more or less severe LV dysfunction or NYHA class II or Class III. According to the 
applicant, no signal of any pro-arrhythmic effect of ivabradine was found for any group or subgroup.  
Overall group 
According to the applicant, there was no evidence of a pro-arrhythmic effect of ivabradine (see table 
25, 26).  
The  incidence  of  AEs  and  serious  AEs  related  to  supraventricular  arrhythmias  was  similar  in  both 
treatment groups (table 25). There was some evidence of a benefit effect of ivabradine in preventing 
sinus  tachycardia,  ventricular  tachycardia  and  left  bundle  branch  block.  Sick  sinus  syndrome  was 
infrequent,  but  was  observed  in  9  patients  in  the  ivabradine  group  compared  with  2  patients  in  the 
placebo  group  (difference  not  significant).  No  major  differences  for  serious  AEs  related  to 
supraventricular arrhythmias between groups for individual preferred terms, was observed. 
The  incidence  of  AEs  relating  to  ventricular  arrhythmias  was  similar  in  the  ivabradine  and  placebo 
(table 26). Incidences of individual preferred terms were generally similar in the two groups, with the 
exception of ventricular tachycardia which was less frequent with ivabradine. Serious AEs were less 
frequent with ivabradine than with placebo, largely due to a significantly lower incidence of serious 
AEs of ventricular tachycardia. 
15 
 
 
 
 
The  incidence  of  AEs  related  to  cardiac  conduction  disorders  was  slightly  lower  in  the  ivabradine 
group (86 patients) than with placebo (98 patients; not significant), largely due to a significantly lower 
incidence of left bundle branch block (ivabradine 18 patients, placebo 34 patients; p = 0.033). Serious 
AEs related to cardiac conduction disorders were similar in both treatment groups. 
Patients with stable angina 
According to the applicant, there was no indication of any pro-arrhythmic effect of ivabradine in stable 
angina patients (table 20, 21).There was some evidence of less arrhythmic AEs and serious AEs for 
both supraventricular and ventricular arrhythmias in the ivabradine group as compared to the placebo 
(table 20).  
There  was  a  significant  reduction  in  the  incidence  of  ventricular  extrasystoles  with  ivabradine 
compared with placebo, while serious AEs occurred with similar frequency in both treatment groups 
(table 21). 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
AEs related to cardiac conduction disorders were also less frequent with ivabradine (7 patients, 1.0%) 
than with placebo (16 patients, 2.1%), although the difference was not significant. 
Patients with stable angina taking betablockers 
There  was  no  evidence  of  any  pro-arrhythmic  effect  of  ivabradine  in  the  subgroup  of  patients  with 
stable angina who were taking beta-blockers.  
The incidences of supraventricular arrhythmias, notably atrial fibrillation and sinus tachycardia were 
numerically lower with ivabradine than with placebo (table 22).  
Serious AEs were also less frequent with ivabradine than with placebo. 
The incidence of AEs related to ventricular arrhythmias was numerically lower with ivabradine (table 
23). The incidence of serious AEs was slightly higher in the ivabradine group. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  incidence  of  AEs  related  to  cardiac  conduction  disorders  was  similar  in  both  treatment  groups 
(ivabradine  7  patients,  1.1%;  placebo  11  patients,  1.6%).  There  were  relatively  few  serious  AEs 
(ivabradine 2 patients, 0.3%; placebo 4 patients, 0.6%). 
LV subgroups and NYHA classes subgroups (in patients with AP and beta-blocker) 
Supraventricular arrhythmias 
In all patients with stable angina taking beta-blockers, the incidence of atrial fibrillation was lower in 
the ivabradine group (15 patients, 2.3%) than with placebo (28 patients, 4.0%). Among the different 
subgroups, the apparent protective effect of ivabradine was most marked in patients with LV ejection 
fraction < 35% (ivabradine 8 patients, 2.5%; placebo 22 patients, 7.0%) and in patients with NYHA 
Class  II  symptoms  (ivabradine  9  patients,  1.8%;  placebo  18  patients,  3.5%).  In  patients  with  LV 
ejection fraction ≥ 35% the incidence was similar in both treatment groups, and in patients in NYHA 
Class  III  the  incidence  was  slightly  lower  with  ivabradine  (6  patients,  3.7%)  than  with  placebo  (10 
patients. 5.7%). Results were similar for serious AEs of atrial fibrillation, with lower incidences with 
ivabradine in patients with LV ejection fraction < 35% (4 patients, 1.2% versus 17 patients, 5.4%) and 
patients with NYHA Class II (2 patients, 0.4% versus 13 patients, 2.5%). 
The incidence of atrial flutter was relatively low, with no between-group differences in the subgroups. 
Ventricular arrhythmias 
The  incidence  of  ventricular  tachycardia  was  relatively  low,  and  in  all  patients  with  stable  angina 
taking beta-blockers the incidence was similar in both treatment groups (ivabradine 6 patients, 0.9%; 
placebo  5  patients,  0.7%).  There  were  no  marked  differences  in  any  of  the  subgroups  for  AEs  or 
serious AEs. 
The incidence of ventricular extrasystoles was lower in the ivabradine group (12 patients, 1.8%) than 
with  placebo  (25  patients,  3.6%),  and  incidences  were  similar  or  lower  in  the  ivabradine  groups 
compared  with  placebo  in  all  subgroups.  The  apparent  protective  effect  of  ivabradine  was  most 
marked in patients with LV ejection fraction < 35% (3 patients, 0.9% versus 13 patients, 4.2%) and 
those with Class II (6 patients, 1.2% versus 20, 3.8%). There were only 2 patients with serious AEs of 
ventricular extrasystoles, and both were in the placebo group. 
Cardiac conduction disorders 
The incidences of atrioventricular block second degree and third degree (complete) were low in both 
treatment groups, and no differences in subgroups could be determined. 
Results of the Holter analysis performed in patients with stable angina and taking betablockers 
Holter sub-study in patients with stable angina 
A Holter 24-h monitoring sub-study was performed in 840 patients in study CL3-056.  
Holter abnormalities 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
According to the applicant, the incidences of the main abnormalities were similar at 1 month and at the 
last observation on treatment in the group of patients with stable angina taking betablockers (table 24). 
However, a slightly higher incidence was observed for supraventricular tachycardia. 
Bradycardia 
As expected, in the full study population, the incidence of the AE bradycardia was significantly higher 
in the ivabradine group (206 patients, 3.8%) than with placebo (56 patients, 1.0%; p < 0.001). Among 
ivabradine-treated  patients,  the  incidence  of  bradycardia  was  lower  in  stable  angina  patients  (3.1%) 
and  still  lower  in  stable  angina  patients  taking  beta-blockers  (2.4%),  while  the  incidences  for  the 
corresponding  placebo  groups  were  approximately  unchanged  (table  27).  Among  stable  angina 
patients taking beta-blockers, severity of LV dysfunction and NYHA Classes had no marked influence 
on the incidence of bradycardia (table 27). 
Bradycardia  as  a  serious  AE  occurred  in  22  patients  in  the  ivabradine  group  and  6  patients  with 
placebo (p = 0.004) in the full study population. In patients with stable angina, only one patient (in the 
ivabradine group) had bradycardia as a serious AE (table 27). 
19 
 
 
 
 
Holter sub-study in patients with angina and taking beta-blockers and in the different subgroups 
The  lowest heart rates recorded during  Holter  monitoring  at  the  last  assessment  under treatment  are 
shown by heart rate class for stable angina patients, stable angina patients taking beta-blockers, and 
subgroups of patients with different severity of LV dysfunction and NYHA Classes are summarised in 
Appendix table 19. As expected, the number of patients with lowest heart rate values in each of the 
heart rate classes was greater with ivabradine than with placebo. However, among ivabradine-treated 
patients,  there  were  only  minor  variations in incidence  between the  different  subgroups.  Rates  were 
similar among stable angina patients taking beta-blockers and the full stable angina group, and there 
were  no  marked  differences  between  the  subgroups  with  different  severity  of  LV  dysfunction  and 
NYHA  Classes.  Thus,  none  of  the  subgroups  of  patients  with  stable  angina  taking  beta-blockers 
appeared to be at increased risk of bradycardia. 
20 
 
 
 
Angina pectoris as an adverse event  
The  incidence  of  the  AE  angina  pectoris  in  the  full  study  population  was  slightly  lower  in  the 
ivabradine  group  (136  patients,  2.5%)  than  with  placebo  (175  patients,  3.0%)  (table  28).  In  the 
subgroup of patients with stable angina and taking beta-blockers, the benefit of ivabradine treatment 
was more marked, with an incidence of angina pectoris of 20 patients (3.1%) in the ivabradine group 
compared  with  33  patients  (4.7%)  in  the  placebo  group.  This  was  also  noticed  within  the  different 
subgroups defined by severity of LV dysfunction and NYHA Classes. The same was true for angina 
pectoris as a serious AE.  
21 
 
 
 
 
 
In  general , the overall rate of EAE was slightly higher in the ivabradine group (55.7%, 42.1% PY) 
than  in  the  placebo  group  (55.5%,  37.0%  PY),  but  the  difference  between  the  groups  concerned 
mainly those events already described in the SmPC, in particular symptomatic bradycardia and visual 
symptoms (mostly phosphenes). Serious EAEs occurred at a similar rate in the ivabradine and placebo 
groups.  EAEs  related  to  CAD  and  LV  dysfunction  also  occurred  at  similar  rates  in  the  ivabradine 
(27.0%, 16.6% PY) and placebo (27.4%, 16.8% PY) groups. 
The  profile  of  EAE  relating  to  bradycardia  was  very  similar  to  that  in  the  clinical  development 
programme in stable angina. The concomitant use of ivabradine with several other CV medications did 
not induce more severe or serious bradycardia. Importantly, no difference was seen in patients taking 
or not taking beta-blockers for symptomatic or serious bradycardia. The incidence of bradycardia as a 
serious  adverse  event  was  lower  in  ivabradine  treated  patients  with  anginal  pain  (0.14%)  and  in 
patients  with  asymptomatic  LV  dysfunction (NYHA  Class  I)  (0.24%) than  in the  overall  Safety  Set 
(0.40%).  However,  the  incidence  of  serious  or  symptomatic  bradycardia  was  higher  in  some 
subgroups:  patients  with  heart  rate  <70  bpm  at  baseline,  patients  aged  ≥75  years,  and  in  female 
patients. 
The profile of visual symptoms and eye disorders (mainly phosphenes) was also similar to what had 
been observed in previous ivabradine studies of shorter duration; the longer follow-up in Study CL3-
056  did  not  reveal  any  particular  ophthalmic  safety  concerns.  Visual  symptoms  with  ivabradine  are 
typically  mild  and  transient.  In  fact,  the  global  incidence  of  EAE  in  the  system  organ  class  ‘eye 
disorders’  in  the  ivabradine  group  in  Study  CL3-056  (6.7%)  was  markedly  lower  than  in  the  early 
phase  III  efficacy  studies  (15.3% in  Study  CL3-017,  20.9% in  Study  CL3-018,  and  14.0% in  Study 
CL3-023).  These  differences  may  be  related  to  different  study  procedures.  In  the  early  phase  III 
studies,  patients  were  specifically  asked  about  visual  symptoms  at  study  visits.  In  Study  CL3-056, 
patients were informed of the possibility of visual symptoms before starting the study, but were not 
specifically asked about them during visits. Importantly, in CL3-056, where more than 5000 patients 
received ivabradine with a longer follow-up (median 19 months) than in previous studies, no adverse 
event  possibly  related  to  retinal  degeneration  was  reported  as  well  as  no  new  unexpected  adverse 
visual events. The incidences of visual symptoms reported as EAE, or reported as a serious EAE or 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
leading to study drug withdrawal were similar in the overall Safety Set and in the main subgroups of 
ivabradine-treated patients. 
The incidence of atrial fibrillation was 5.2% in the ivabradine group and 4.9% in the placebo group. 
Most  cases  were  mild or moderate in intensity,  with  a  similar  rate  of  severe cases in the  ivabradine 
(0.46%) and placebo  (0.44%)  groups.  Atrial  fibrillation  was reported as a  serious  EAE  in  2.3% and 
2.5% in the ivabradine and placebo groups respectively. Overall, there is therefore no indication that, 
in this population particularly at risk for atrial fibrillation, heart rate reduction induced by ivabradine 
may have increased the incidence or severity of this supraventricular arrhythmia. This was confirmed 
in the Holter sub-study. Among patients with anginal pain at baseline, the rate of atrial fibrillation was 
lower in the ivabradine group (2.2%) than with placebo (4.0%). However, in female patients, the rate 
of atrial fibrillation was higher in the ivabradine group (6.5%) than with placebo (3.9%). As expected, 
the incidence of atrial fibrillation was higher among patients aged ≥75 years than among those aged 
<75 years, in both the ivabradine and placebo groups. 
I.2.3 Discussion 
•  Efficacy results  
Background therapy prior entry 
The  number  of  patients  receiving  beta  blocker  therapy  other  than  atenolol  prior  study  entry  was 
considerable. Also, the variety of treatment regimens considered equivalent to atenolol 50mg OD was 
considerable. In fact, for some patients the extent of beta blockade may have decreased.  
The MAH explained that in Study CL3-057, it was required that patients receive the same beta-blocker 
at the same dosage for at least 3 months before selection to ensure stability of the patients.  
To enlarge the potential recruitment, according to the protocol the patients could receive another beta-
blocker than atenolol within the 3 months before the study provided that this dosage was equivalent to 
atenolol  50  mg  o.d.  (a  list  of  equivalence  was  proposed  to  the  investigators).  Overall  58%  of  the 
patients involved in the study received atenolol 50 mg o.d. within the 3 months before the study and 
42% another beta-blocker. These percentages were comparable in ivabradine and placebo groups. 
Heart rate on ECG at rest is a strong clinical way to assess the extent of beta-blockade. HR on ECG at 
rest  was  measured  at  pre-selection  visit  when  the  patients  received  their  pre-selection  beta-blocker 
(atenolol 50 mg o.d. or another beta-blocker) and at inclusion when all patients received atenolol 50 
mg o.d. during the run-in period. Overall, HR was stable in patients who received previously atenolol 
or in patients switched from another beta-blocker to atenolol indicating that there was no modification 
of the extent of beta-blockade in patients switched. 
The  list  of  equivalent  beta-blockers  is  based  on  clinical  experience  and  judgement  and  appears 
justified  by  the  CHMP.  In  addition,  the  analysis  on  heart  rates  of  patients  who  received  previously 
atenolol  and  patients  switched  from  another  beta-blocker  to  atenolol  indicates  that  there  was  no 
modification of the extent of beta-blockade in patients switched. 
Efficacy results / atenolol dose 
Overall,  a  significant  additive  effect  was  noted,  but  the  study  by  its  design  -  a  study  to  evaluate 
efficacy in atenolol non-responders - used a relatively low dose of atenolol of 50 mg once daily only 
and  patients  were  not  up-titrated  to  the  maximum  100  mg  atenolol  dose  on  the  basis  of  heart  rate 
and/or anginal symptoms. The mean heart rate was still 67 bpm, indicating that there was still room 
for a higher dose of atenolol. Therefore, it is difficult to interpret the value of ivabradine co- treatment 
that shows a positive effect on the intermediate endpoints that were also used in the phase III studies in 
the original registration dossier.  
The MAH was therefore requested to address this issue of suboptimal dosing by performing post hoc 
analyses in patients with different baseline HRs to evaluate the efficacy of ivabradine also in patients 
with (near) target baseline HR. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
The  first  post  hoc  analysis  demonstrated  that  in  patients  with  a  relatively  low  HR  (≤  65  bpm)  at 
baseline  ivabradine  retained  its  efficacy.  Similar  efficacy  was  also  demonstrated  in  the  second  post 
hoc  analysis  in  a  population  (n=144)  that  could  be  considered  optimally  treated  with  beta-blocker, 
either because of a resting HR < 60 bpm, SBP < 100 mm Hg or PR > 200 ms. Since from a clinicians 
point of view a patient under these conditions would be maximally dosed as such clear haemodynamic 
or AV node conduction effects would make him reluctant to increase the dose of the ß-blocker further.  
An overview of the literature suggested that stable angina is commonly treated with a combination of 
two or more drugs. It is important to note that in a study recently performed with ranolazine, it was 
also given on top of a 50 mg OD atenolol dose.  For ranolazine, a post hoc analysis was also required 
to demonstrate that patients considered on an optimal beta-blocker dose (same criteria as in the second 
post  hoc  analysis  discussed  above  for  ivabradine)  had  similar  effects  as  the  overall  –  sub-optimally 
treated - population. In contrast with ivabradine however ranolazine does not cause bradycardia. 
The CHMP questioned whether superiority or non-inferiority would be maintained in comparison to 
an  increased  dose  of  beta-blocker  in  patients  able  to  tolerate  an  increase  would  be  maintained.  In 
addition, the clinical relevance of the observed effect size of the primary outcome parameters - in both 
the total population and post hoc defined groups – e.g. a change in ETT of approximately 16 seconds 
is unclear.  Even though a more strenous exercise treadmill test is used compared to the monotherapy 
studies  no  beneficial  effects  on  number  of  anginal  attacks  and  consumption  of  short-acting  nitrates 
were observed. In addition, no data are available to assess the benefit/risk on top of a 100mg atenolol 
dose – this should be reflected in any proposed wording of the SPC.  
Therefore,  the  MAH  was  asked  to  provide  more  evidence  and  discuss  the  clinical  relevance  of  the 
observed  effect  size  of  the  primary  outcome  parameters  -  in  both  the  total  population  and  post  hoc 
defined groups.  
The  MAH  explained  that  the  primary  efficacy  criterion  was  total  exercise  duration  (TED)  of  an 
exercise  tolerance  test  (ETT)  was  in  accordance  with  EMEA  guideline  (CPMP/EWP/234/95  rev  1, 
2006). As patients received an efficient background therapy, the standard Bruce exercise protocol was 
chosen. The improvement in TED in Study CL3-057 of 16 s (p < 0.001) (table 1) was achieved, on 
average, during the third stage of the standard Bruce protocol, which represents a substantial workload 
(treadmill speed 5.5 km/h, gradient 14%) and will have a great impact on patients’ daily life activities 
(table 2). The improvement in TED was accompanied by improvements in time to angina onset (TAO) 
of  25  s  (p  <  0.001)  and  in  time  to  1  mm  ST  segment  depression  (TST)  of  28  s  (p  <  0.001).  These 
changes  in  main  ETT  criteria  with  ivabradine  are  numerically  similar  to  those  obtained  with  the 
metabolic agent ranolazine when given on top of background therapy with a betablocker or calcium 
antagonist, and which supported an indication for use of ranolazine as add-on therapy on top of both 
classes  of  drug  (see  also  table  1).  However,  the  changes  with  ranolazine  were  achieved  at  a  lower 
workload (treadmill speed 2.7 km/h, gradient 10%) than those with ivabradine. The improvements in 
ETT criteria with ivabradine as add-on therapy in Study CL3-057 are of substantially greater clinical 
importance  regarding  patients’  daily  life  activities  than  the  corresponding  changes  observed  with 
ranolazine, for which an indication has been obtained. 
Table 1: Comparison in TED, TAO and TST between ivabradine and ranozaline 
Most  published  studies  of  combination  anti-anginal  therapy  have  shown  only  small  and  non-
significant  benefits  of  the  combination  on  ETT  criteria  at  the  trough  of  drug  activity.  In  the  meta-
analysis  performed  by  Klein  (2002),  the  difference  in  TED,  observed  at  trough  of  drug  activity, 
24 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
between the combination of calcium antagonists and beta-blockers and beta-blockers as monotherapy 
was only 4 s and was not significant. In the meta-analysis used as a reference (Klein et al., 2002,) 23 
randomized  trials  were  analyzed.  Analyses  were  performed  independently  to  differentiate  peak  and 
trough  effects  (within  or  later  than  6  h  following  drug  intake).  Upon  treatment  with  beta-blocker 
combined to calcium antagonist, there was an insignificant difference of 29 s at peak and no difference 
at  trough  (4  s,  1%,  p  =  0.14)  in  TED  compared  to  beta-blocker  alone.  Time  to  1  mm  ST-segment 
depression was 33 s at peak and 10 s (3%, p = 0.21) at trough.  Time to onset of pain was 38 s longer 
at peak and -4 s (0%, p = 0.65) at trough. In the current Study CL3-057, ETT was performed at the 
trough of ivabradine and atenolol activity, i.e. 12 ± 1 hours and 24 ± 2 hours post-dosing, respectively. 
Thus, the change in ETT of approximately 16 seconds as well as the results of the secondary endpoints 
can be considered clinically relevant. 
In Study CL3-057, patients were already receiving a background therapy with atenolol 50 mg o.d. and 
had a low incidence of angina attacks per week (1.7 AA/w). The low frequency of AA/w at baseline 
could  partly  explain  the  lack  of  a  significant  treatment  effect.  The  decrease  in  the  mean  number  of 
AA/w was greater in the most symptomatic patients. Patients with at least 1, 2 and 3 AA/w during run-
in period had a mean number of 3.7, 5.1 and 6.7 AA/w at baseline which decreased to 1.8, 2.5 and 3.3 
AA/w  respectively  (table  3).  The  mean  decrease  in  AA/w  is  similar  to  the  decrease  observed  in  a 
previous Study (CL3-017) when patients had treatment with atenolol in monotherapy increased from 
50 mg o.d. to 100 mg o.d. According to the guideline “it has become accepted that measurements of 
exercise  capacity  using  standardised  exercise  testing  should  be,  in  spite  of  an  intrinsic  amount  of 
variability, the major criteria of efficacy and may account for the patient benefit in terms of reduction 
of  symptoms”  (CPMP/EWP/234/95  rev  1,  2006).  “Assessment  of  the  effect  of  anti-anginal  drugs 
based  on  clinical  alone  is  as  yet  considered  too  unreliable  because  of  the  possible  influence  of 
uncontrolled  variables”  and  “the  consumption  of  SAN  is  highly  variable  and  today  is  considered  of 
limited  clinical  value”.  The  differences  in  angina  attack  frequency  and  SAN  consumption  are 
considered  in  the  guideline  as  secondary  criteria  because  they  are  less  sensitive  due  to  the  fact  that 
patients can adapt their effort in daily life to their clinical status. 
Table 2: Standard Bruce test and Modified Bruce test 
Table 3: Effect on numbers of Angina Pectoris Attacks during run-in and during study phase 
The CHMP considered that an improvement on TED and other exercise test outcomes (time to angina 
onset and time to 1 mm ST depression) was effectively shown with ivabradine. However, the clinical 
relevance  of  the  small  absolute  improvement  16  sec  on  TED  was  questioned,  especially  since  no 
impact was observed on nitrate use and angina attacks. The applicant now shows that the effect size 
was similar to ranolazine when given on top of beta-blockade but using a more strenous exercise test 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
in study CL3-057. The standard Bruce test is considerably more intensive than the modified protocol 
that was used with ranolazine. The smaller absolute change of 16 seconds gain can thus be considered 
at  least  comparable  to the 24  seconds  gain  with  ranolazine. The  other  tolerance  test endpoints  were 
superior  for  ivabradine  compared  to  ranolazine.  In  comparison,  combined  use  of  calcium  channel 
blockers and beta-blockers had even less impact on exercise tolerance testing. Thus, improvement in 
TED by an antianginal agent can be expected to be relatively less when added to a beta-blocker than 
given  as  monotherapy.  Improvement  by  ivabradine  compares  favourably  with  ranozaline  and  ca-
antagonists added to beta-blockade, that are accepted combinations. Therefore the CHMP considered 
that  the  above  ivabradine  data  are  in  line  with  the  previous  conclusion  of  the  CHMP  concerning 
ranolazine.  
Choice of atenolol 50mg dose  
The  MAH  considered  that  it  was  important  to  define  and  to  provide  the  background  therapy  to 
demonstrate  the  efficacy  of  ivabradine  as  add-on  therapy  of  beta-blockers.  Atenolol  was  one  of  the 
most frequently prescribed products at the initiation of Study CL3-057 and was chosen as a good and 
usual  representative  of  beta-blockers.  The  median  dose  of  atenolol  in  a  recent  population  study  of 
beta-blocker use in 55 000 patients after myocardial infarction was 50 mg/day (Gislason et al., 2006). 
Similarly,  in  a  recent  report  from  the  European  Heart  Survey,  the  mean  daily  dose  of  atenolol  in 
patients with stable angina after assessment by a cardiologist was 55 mg/day (Daly, 2008). The dose of 
atenolol of 50 mg/day chosen for background therapy in Study CL3-057, is therefore representative of 
current general clinical practice. 
The  MAH  explained  that  for  similar  reasons,  atenolol  50  mg/day  was  also  chosen  as  background 
therapy in a study of the metabolic agent ranolazine as add-on therapy. The improvements observed in 
ETT  criteria  during  a  Bruce  modified  ETT  in  this  ranolazine  study  were  comparable  to  results 
observed  with  ivabradine  (although  the  ranolazine  results  were  obtained  at  a  lower  workload  they 
supported  the  following  indication:  “ranolazine  is  indicated  as  add-on  therapy  for  the  symptomatic 
treatment of patients with angina pectoris who are inadequately controlled or intolerant to first-line 
anti-anginal therapies (such as beta-blockers and/or calcium antagonists)”. 
A  post-hoc  subgroup  analysis  of  the  ranolazine  study  was  performed  in  patients  whose  dose  of 
background therapy appeared to be maximal at baseline and showed similar results in terms of main 
ETT criteria to the whole studied population. This result was taken to imply that an effect could be 
expected  also  in  a  population  whose  background  treatment  was  “state-of-the-art”.  An  equivalent 
subgroup  analysis  has  been  performed  in  Study  CL3-057.  A  group  of  patients was  identified  whose 
atenolol  dose  of  50  mg  o.d.  was judged  to  be  maximal,  using  the  same  criteria  as  in  the  ranolazine 
study (resting heart rate ≤ 60 bpm and/or supine systolic blood pressure ≤ 100 mmHg and/or mean PR 
interval ≥ 200 ms at baseline). Changes in TED and TST over 4 months in this subgroup (N = 144) 
were similar  to  those  in  the  whole  studied population  (FAS). The improvement in TED  was  16.3  s, 
compared with 16.3 s in the FAS, and the improvement in TST was 28.9 s, compared with 28.5 s in 
the  FAS.  According  to  the  MAH,  these  results  indicate  that  the  conclusions  of  Study  CL3-057  are 
unlikely  to  have  been  affected  by  the  absence  of  a  formal  procedure  to  maximise  the  background 
therapy dose. 
Table 4.  Study CL3-057 - Changes from baseline in total exercise duration and time to 1-mm ST 
segment depression in the subgroup of patients whose beta-blocker dose was judged to be maximal. 
Mean ± SD unless otherwise stated 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP  reviewed  the  MAH  justification  above  summarised  and  considered  that  the  number  of 
subjects  in  CL3-057  study  with  maximal  atenolol  dosing  represent  a  minority  (N=144)  of  the  total 
study population of 889 subjects. The efficacy data appears similar in both groups, however, statistical 
significance compared to placebo is not reached for the primary endpoint TED in the maximal beta-
blocker dose subgroup (see Table 4). 
Up-titration of atenolol, although being a clinically relevant issue, was not requested for the current 
indication of ranolazine. Ranolazine, via its action to decrease the late sodium current, is considered to 
reduce  these  intracellular  ionic  imbalances  during  ischaemia.  This  reduction  in  cellular  calcium 
overload is expected to improve myocardial relaxation and thereby decrease left ventricular diastolic 
stiffness.  In  contrast, ivabradine  is a  pure  heart  rate  lowering  agent,  acting  by  selective  and  specific 
inhibition  of  the  cardiac  pacemaker.  Thus  the  mechanism  of  action  is  different  between  the  two 
medicinal products and therefore, the combination with beta-blockers can result in different efficacy 
and safety effects. 
The  guideline  (CPMP/EWP/234/95  rev  1,  2006)  requires  an  optimised  and  properly  defined 
background therapy. 
The  question  of  whether  adding  ivabradine  in  patients  receiving  a  medium  beta-blocker  dose  is 
superior or non-inferior to increasing the beta-blocker dose could not be addressed directly given the 
design  of  Study  CL3-057.  However,  an indirect  approach  has been  used  to  address  this  question  by 
combining data from Study CL3-057 (in which ivabradine was added to atenolol 50 mg o.d.) with data 
from the atenolol group in Study CL3-017 (in which the atenolol dose was increased from 50 to 100 
mg o.d.). The improvements resulting from increasing the atenolol dose were approximately 19 s for 
TED,  32  s  for  TAO  and  29  s  for  TST  during  the  third  or  the  fourth  stage  of  the  modified  Bruce 
protocol (speed 2.7 km/h or 4 km/h, gradient 10% or 12% respectively). In Study CL3-057, the effect 
of adding ivabradine to atenolol 50 mg o.d. was to increase TED by 24 s, TAO by 49 s and TST by 46 
s, and these improvements were obtained during the third stage of the standard Bruce protocol (speed 
5.5 km/h, gradient 14%). [These are changes compared to baseline.]  
An indirect approach has been used to address the question of superiority or non-inferiority. Results 
(numerical values not relative to placebo) of the Study CL3-017 (Phase III randomised, double-blind, 
controlled, parallel group, non-inferiority study of ivabradine versus atenolol) have been compared to 
those of CL3-057. The indirect method gives some confirmation of the beneficial effect of ivabradine 
as an add-on therapy to beta-blockers.  
In  order  to  get  a full answer to  this  question, the  MAH  was  subsequently  asked  to perform  a  direct 
comparison between patients receiving ivabradine on top of a sub-optimal dose of betablocker versus 
up-titration of the beta-blocker. 
The MAH argued that target doses are rarely used in clinical practice, and are not necessarily optimal 
for  many  patients.  It  was  pointed  out  that  the  median  atenolol  dose  in  a  recent  population  study  of 
beta-blocker use in 55 000 patients after acute myocardial infarction was 50 mg/day (Gislason et al., 
2006) and that, in a recent report from the European Heart Survey, the mean daily dose of atenolol in 
patients  with  stable  angina  after  assessment  by  a  cardiologist  was  55  mg/day  (Daly  et  al.,  2008).  A 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
recent  report  (Setakis  et  al.,  2008)  from  the  UK  General  Practice  Research  Database  of  the  UK 
Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency found that only 4.6% of angina patients taking 
betablockers  in  clinical  practice  (N  =  12  493)  received  the  target  dose  (100  mg/day  for  atenolol), 
57.2%  received  <  50%  of  the  target  dose,  and  the  mean  dose  of  atenolol  was  approximately  40 
mg/day.  Percentages  of  target  doses  were  similar  for  other  beta-blockers  and  for  other  indications 
(heart failure and myocardial infarction). 
In  relatively  old  and  small  clinical  trials  in  heart  failure,  patients  vary  in  their  response  to  beta-
blockers  and  high  doses  often  do  not  produce  greater  benefits  than  moderate  doses,  and  an 
individualised approach to dosing has been recommended. Similarly, in studies in patients with stable 
angina,  high  doses  of  beta-blockers  have  produced  only  modest  and  inconsistent  improvements  in 
exercise tolerance compared with moderate doses. 
According to the applicant Ivabradine study CL3-017 is the largest study evaluating the effects of up-
titration  of  atenolol  in  stable  angina  published  to  date.  In  this  study,  the  additional  improvements 
resulting from the doubling of the atenolol dose were markedly smaller than the improvements seen at 
1 month with the 50 mg o.d. dose (table 2). 
Like most patients in clinical practice, patients in study CL3-057 were treated with the dose of beta-
blocker  considered  to  be  optimal  for  them  by  the  treating  physician.  In  the  subgroup  of  patients  in 
whom the level of beta-blockade at baseline could be judged as maximal in terms of objective heart 
rate and haemodynamic criteria, improvements in all ETT criteria with ivabradine were the same as in 
the  full  patient  population,  indicating  that  the  efficacy  of  ivabradine  is  not  reduced  in  patients 
maximally treated by a beta-blocker (table 3). 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
Ivabradine  studies  CL3-017  and  CL3-057  had  similar  patient  populations  and  represent  large  and 
rigorous evaluations of either increasing the dose of a beta-blocker or adding ivabradine to a moderate 
but  optimal  dose  of  a  beta-blocker.  Taking  together  the  results  of  the  two  studies  indicate  that  the 
addition of ivabradine to atenolol 50 mg/day was at least as efficacious as increasing the atenolol dose 
from 50 to 100 mg/day (table 5).  
The  data  presented  indicate  that  in  patients  receiving  a  beta-blocker  whose  symptoms  are  not 
controlled, who cannot tolerate a higher dose of the beta-blocker, and whose heart rate is > 60 bpm, 
the addition of ivabradine represents a real alternative for controlling persistent symptoms. 
In  order  to  better  describe  the  population  of  patients  which  can  benefit  from  the  combination  of 
ivabradine with beta-blockers, the MAH proposed to reword the indication as follows: 
Symptomatic  treatment  of  chronic  stable  angina  pectoris  in  coronary  artery  disease  patients  with 
normal sinus rhythm. Ivabradine is indicated: 
− in patients unable to tolerate or with a contra-indication to the use of beta-blockers 
− or  in  combination  with  beta-blockers  in  patients  inadequately  controlled  with  an  optimal  beta-
blocker dose. 
The  CHMP  reviewed  the  additional  documentation  provided  by  the  MAH  in  its  second  request  for 
information, providing data from clinical practice which indicate that patients for a number of reasons 
are frequently not treated with the maximal beta-blocker dose.  
These data, as also shown by the analysis of study CL3-017 in which patients were uptitrated from 50 
mg atenolol to 100 mg atenolol, do suggest poor clinical practice and that there is still room left for 
optimizing treatment of these patients.  
Study data provided on increasing the atenolol dose from 50 mg to 100 mg daily include seven small 
clinical studies (with 10-36 subjects) that show a statistically significant increase in exercise capacity 
compared  to  placebo.  Between-dose  significance  is  not  observed  or  the  significance  testing  is  not 
included, which may be due to the small number of subjects in each dosing group. In the larger CL3-
017  study  (N=286),  a  between-dose  significance  testing  is  not  included  in  the  response,  either  (see 
table  2). Thus,  these  data do  not  provided  a  solid  basis for justifying  why  a  higher  dose  of 100  mg 
atenolol  was  not  used  in  the  CL3-057  study.  The  MAH  considered  that  the  betablocker  dose  of 
atenolol 50 mg o.d. or equivalent had been judged to be appropriate for each individual patient by the 
treating  physician  before  inclusion  to  the  study  CL3-057.  However,  without  an  ongoing  study 
recruitment setting an alternative for add-on therapy with ivabradine could have been an increase of 
the betablocker dose. 
Comparison of the effect of increasing the dose of atenolol from 50 to 100 mg/day with the effect of 
adding  ivabradine  5-7.5  mg  b.i.d.  to  ongoing  background  therapy  of  atenolol  50  mg/day  on  ETT 
parameters (studies CL3-017 and CL3-057, see Table 4) is difficult, as the baseline ETT values of the 
two studies differ significantly due to the different exercise protocols and as the data is combined from 
two  separate  studies.  In  the  CL3-057  study  a  more  strenuous  exercise  protocol  was  used  and  the 
change from lower baseline status is greater. It can also be asked whether the higher baseline ETT in 
study CL3-017 leaves less room for improvement. 
In  conclusion,  having  reviewed  the  supplementary  information provided  by  the applicant  during  the 
complete procedure, the CHMP considered that the study CL3-057 was able to demonstrate efficacy 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of ivabradine when given as add-on therapy on top of a beta-blocker, although the betablocker dose 
was likely to be suboptimal in some patients. It is considered acceptable that there are some patients 
on  betablocker  treatment  who  would  benefit  from  ivabradine.  An  additional  prospectively  trial 
comparing  ivabradine  on  top  of  a  suboptimal  dose  of  betablocker  versus  up  titration  of  the  beta-
blocker is therefore not considered required to demonstrate efficacy for this indication. One restriction 
should  be  made,  however,  and  that  refers  to  the  heart  rate  at  initiation  of  the  combination.  Only 
patients whose heart rate is > 60 bpm were included as patients with a heart rate below this limit are 
contraindicated for treatment with ivabradine. 
Thus, it is considered that the indication proposed by the MAH is acceptable with slight modification 
of the current wording: 
Symptomatic  treatment  of  chronic  stable  angina  pectoris  in  coronary  artery  disease  patients  with 
normal sinus rhythm. Ivabradine is indicated: 
- in patients unable to tolerate or with a contra-indication to the use of beta-blockers 
- or in combination with beta-blockers in patients inadequately controlled with an optimal betablocker 
dose, and whose heart rate is > 60 bpm. 
 Safety results  
Analysis of the safety data did not reveal new safety concerns, although clearly more adverse events 
were reported than in the placebo group. The majority of reported adverse events related to the known 
effects on heart rate and visual disturbances.  
The  incidence  of  adverse  reactions  was  higher  in  the  group  with  combination  therapy.  The  clinical 
significance of aggravated angina pectoris and ventricular extrasystoles remains unclear. These events 
appeared to be related to the progression of the disease and all cases were individually discussed by 
the applicant. On the other hand, when heart rate is decreased the end-diastolic pressure will increase 
due to increased ventricular filing, this will in turn increase oxygen demands during systolic work that 
may not be compensated by increased perfusion time. 
Especially when ivabradine would be added to higher doses of betablockers such as atenolol 100 mg 
daily this may lead to further clinical deterioration, e.g. more anginal symptoms due to increased end-
diastolic pressure as a result of overly decreased HR and / or ventricular arrhythmias because of re-
entry mechanisms.  
Therefore,  the  MAH  was  asked  to  discuss  further  the  clinical  significance  of  the  above  observed 
findings  in  particular  with the  possibility  that patients  could in  daily  practice  be  treated  with  higher 
doses of beta-blockers, e.g. atenolol 100 mg.   
The applicant explained that the incidence of the adverse event (AE) angina pectoris was higher in the 
ivabradine group (1.3%, 6 patients) than with placebo (no patients), although the number of patients 
concerned  was  small  and  in  3  cases  there  was  no  evidence  of  any  worsening  of  angina  status  with 
treatment. Other lines of evidence indicate that adding ivabradine to a betablocker does not lead to an 
increased incidence of this AE.  
Therefore the results of another study (BEAUTIFUL) with ivabradine were further discussed by the 
MAH as detailed below:  
While  BEAUTIFUL  study  (CL3-056)  was  markedly  different  in  design  and  patient  population  to 
phase III studies included in the initial submission, some results are directly relevant to the approved 
indication for ivabradine, particularly from some subgroup analyses (patients who had their physical 
activity limited by anginal pain at baseline, patients taking and not taking beta-blockers). Data from 
patients  taking  ivabradine  in  combination  with  a  beta-blocker  in  this  much  larger  and  longer  study 
showed that there was no excess of angina pectoris compared with the placebo group, and this was still 
true  in  patients  taking  guidelines-recommended  target  doses  of  beta-blockers  (Fox  et  al,  2006).  In 
patients  in  Study  CL3-056  with  anginal  symptoms  and  taking  betablockers,  the  incidence  of  angina 
pectoris was lower in the ivabradine group (3.1%; n=654) than with placebo (4.7%; n=696). Finally, 
the incidence of angina pectoris with ivabradine in Study CL3-057 (1.3%) was not higher than in the 
ivabradine  EPAR  (2.0%  and  1.9%  for  ivabradine  and  placebo,  respectively).  Taken  together,  these 
data do not suggest an increase in anginal symptoms when ivabradine is taken in combination with a 
beta-blocker. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
In  Study  CL3-057,  the  incidence  of  the  AE  ventricular  extrasystoles  (VES)  was  higher  in  the 
ivabradine  group  (1.3%,  6  patients)  than  with  placebo  (0.2%,  1  patient),  although  the  number  of 
patients concerned was again small and no case was followed by more complex ventricular arrhythmia 
(table  4).  In  BEAUTIFUL  study,  the  patients  taking  ivabradine  in  combination  with  a  beta-blocker, 
including those taking target beta-blocker doses, the incidence of VES was similar compared with the 
placebo group. For the patients with anginal symptoms and taking beta-blockers, the incidence of VES 
was lower in the ivabradine group (1.8%; n=654) than in the placebo group (3.6%; n=696). Finally, 
the incidence of VES with ivabradine in Study CL3-057 (1.3%) was not higher than in the ivabradine 
EPAR (3.0% and 1.3% for ivabradine and placebo, respectively). Overall, no particular risk of excess 
VES  may  be  expected  with  the  combination  of  ivabradine  and  a  beta-blocker  even  in  patients 
receiving high doses of beta-blockers. 
The tendency for the heart rate lowering effect of ivabradine to be greatest in patients with the highest 
initial heart rate, minimising the risk of excessive bradycardia, is preserved when ivabradine is used in 
combination with beta-blockers. In addition, in the Study BEAUTIFUL the incidence of symptomatic 
bradycardia was actually lower (3.7%) in patients taking ivabradine in combination with beta-blockers 
than in those not taking beta-blockers (4.4%). 
Results  from  studies  CL2-062  and  CL2-053  showed  that  heart  rate  reduction  with  ivabradine,  even 
when given on top of high doses of beta-blockers and in patients with severely damaged ventricles, is 
not associated with increased left ventricular pressure or diameter, an effect that might be related to 
the  absence  of  any  negative  inotropic  effect  of  ivabradine.  Analyses  submitted  in  the  original 
application regarding the incidence of coronary events and arrhythmic events (other than bradycardia) 
in  subgroups  of  ivabradine-treated  patients  with  different  levels  of  lowest  heart  rate  indicated  that 
there is no evidence of a link between bradycardia and coronary or arrhythmic events with ivabradine 
treatment (table 6). 
Overall, the balance of evidence indicates that the combination of ivabradine with betablockers, even 
in patients receiving high doses of beta-blockers, is not associated with particular safety concerns. 
Table  4:  Percentage  of  angina  pectoris  and  ventricular  extrasystoles  according  to  betablocker 
treatment and patient with angina 
Table  5:  Change  from  baseline  for  HR  during  treatment  period  in  patients  with  or  without 
betablockers 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6: Rates of coronary artery disorders in patients treated with ivabradine and having one 
or  more  resting  HR  measurements  below  50  and  below  45  bpm expressed as  patients  affected 
per 100 patient-years of exposure 
The  CHMP  reviewed  the  data  above  described  by  the  applicant  and  had  the  following  preliminary 
conclusions.  
The Applicant is referring to safety data of the BEAUTIFUL study (CL3-056) a large three-year study 
required as a follow-up measure (FUM 008.2) with  10917 subjects with stable coronary artery disease 
(CAD)  and  left  ventricular  systolic  dysfunction.  It  was  concluded  that  ivabradine  does  not  have 
additional  benefit  in  patients  with  CAD  with  LV  dysfunction.  No  new  safety  concerns  were  raised, 
however,  small  but  numerically  higher  number  of  sudden  deaths  and  slightly  more  rhythm 
abnormalities were observed. 
The  following  text  is  included  in  ivabradine  EPAR:  “In  patients  with  angina  pectoris,  mild  to 
moderate bradycardia (40–50 bpm) is generally not a major safety issue. HR can usually be registered 
by  the  patients,  and  causality  to  dosage  and  symptoms  recognised.  However,  use  of  ivabradine  is 
limited to patients with contraindication or intolerance to beta-blockers, and in this group tendency to 
excessive, symptomatous bradycardia is not uncommon”. In SPC Section 4.8 bradycardia is listed as 
a  common  undesirable  effect:  “Bradycardia:  3.3%  of  patients  particularly  within  the  first  2  to  3 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
months of treatment initiation. 0.5% of patients experienced a severe bradycardia below or equal to 
40 bpm”. 
In  the  ivabradine  group  of  Study  CL3-057,  the  incidence  of  symptomatic  bradycardia  was  1.1%  (5 
patients vs. none in the placebo group) and the incidence of asymptomatic bradycardia was 3.1% (14 
patients vs. 0.5% or 2 patients in the placebo group). In the larger BEAUTIFUL study (CL3-056), the 
incidence of bradycardia was 3.7% in patients receiving beta-blockers at baseline and 4.4% in those 
without  beta-blockers.  A  negative  correlation  between  baseline  HR  and  the  change  in  HR  with 
ivabradine  plus  beta-blocker  was  shown  in  the  BEAUTIFUL  study  as  well  as  in  ivabradine-treated 
patients  not  receiving  betablockers  (pooled  analysis  of  patients  in  the  original  application).  The 
corresponding data in the current Study CL3-057 has not been shown. 
In a subpopulation with anginal symptoms and beta-blocker use in the larger BEAUTIFUL trial (CL3-
056) the reported larger number of aggravated angina and ventricular extrasystoles adverse events on 
treatment  in  study  CL3-057  was  not  confirmed.  Nor  were  excessive  HR  reductions  observed  in 
patients treated with maximal betablocker doses. However, in the whole population of BEAUTIFUL 
(and in the Holter substudy provided with the same FUM), there were numerically more deaths in the 
ivabradine group than in the placebo group, although differences were small: 10.50% versus 10.09%, 
respectively (table 18). This small difference was also present when death was reported as the event: 
5.6% vs. 4.9% and as sudden death: 4.6% versus 4.2%. Cardiac arrhythmias were the cause of death in 
a  minority  of  patients  (0.33  and  0.26%).  When  cardiac  disorders  leading  to  death  were  analysed 
separately,  incidence  was  found  to  be  numerically  lower  and  even  in  a  more  detailed  evaluation  of 
arrhythmic AEs leading to death a specific harmful cause could not be identified. Thus, although this 
study did not achieve it main goal of showing an overall cardiovascular benefit (only for patients with 
a heart rate ≥ 70 bpm), no detrimental effect on CV outcome was present. 
Also, in  the  subgroup  of  patients  with  stable angina taking  beta-blockers  numerical reductions  were 
seen for the primary and selected secondary endpoints (table 8), at various levels of LV dysfunction or 
NYHA classes (table 14), and for investigator assigned adverse events with an outcome of death (table 
19).  These  results,  although  limited  by  the  post-hoc  analysis,  again  suggest  no  increase  in  cardiac 
events  when  ivabradine  is  combined  with  beta-blockers  in  this  high  risk  group  of  patients  with  LV 
dysfunction and angina.   
In contrast to the slightly higher numbers of AF for ivabradine in the total population (table 25), the 
subgroups of patients with stable angina and in patients with stable angina taking beta-blockers did not 
reveal a higher incidence of AF with ivabradine (table 20 and 22). Furthermore, the Holter substudy 
did  not  show  a  clear  proarrhythmic  effect,  although  minor  differences  were  noted  for  some  of  the 
arrhythmias (table 24).  
As expected, more bradycardia events were observed during treatment with ivabradine in the overall 
population,  but  this  difference  in  events  between  ivabradine  and  placebo  was  not  increased  in  the 
anginal  betablocker  subgroup  and  this  subgroup  even  demonstrated  a  lower  frequency  of  events 
compared to the overall population (table 27). In the LV and NYHA subclasses no marked differences 
for  bradycardia  were  noticed.  In  addition,  only  small  numbers  of  excessive  reductions  in  HR  were 
observed  in  anginal  patients  treated  with  beta-blockers  or  in  any  of  the  LV  and  NYHA  subclasses 
(appendix table 19). These data are therefore reassuring in terms of risk for severe bradycardia. 
In conclusion, the relevance of the slight numerical increase in number of deaths and AF in the overall 
BEAUTIFUL population with LV dysfunction remains unclear and may be a chance finding. Overall, 
the data do not indicate a clear proarrhythmic effect, neither do they indicate a pro-anginal effect. The 
data  of  the  sub  analyses  in  patients  with  stable  angina  and  concurrent  use  of  beta-blockers  are 
reassuring for the currently claimed indication, although these were part of a post-hoc analysis. These 
data  do  not  confirm  initial  concerns  raised  during  the  assessment  of  study  CL3-057.  It  is  overall 
considered  that  the  data  on  patients  with  angina  taking  ivabradine  on  top  of  beta-blockers  in  study 
CL3-056 is reassuring in terms of cardiac safety profile.  
I.3  Changes in the product information 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH requested changes in several sections of the SPC and PI which are reflected below :  
•  4.1 Therapeutic indications 
The wording of the indication was modified following the MAH answer to request for supplementary 
information and subsequently during the assessment to best reflect the results and targeted population 
for which the product had shown beneficial effects.  
The final indication agreed during CHMP discussions  
Symptomatic treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris in coronary artery disease patients with 
normal sinus rhythm.  
Ivabradine is indicated : 
-  in patients unable to tolerate or with a contra-indication to the use of beta-blockers 
- or in combination with beta-blockers in patients inadequately controlled with an optimal beta-
blocker dose  and whose heart rate is > 60 bpm.  
•  4.3 Contra-indications 
Heart failure patients with NYHA functional classification III-IV due to lack of data 
•  4.4 Warnings and special precautions for use 
The SPC is updated with the below changes:  
Combination with calcium channel blockers and other anti-anginal therapies 
Modification  of  the  previous  information  related  to  HF  patients  with  NYHA  classification  II  and 
patients with left ventricular dysfunction :  
Chronic heart failure  
Heart  failure  must  be  appropriately  controlled  before  considering  ivabradine  treatment.  The  use  of 
ivabradine is contra-indicated in heart failure patients with NYHA functional classification III-IV and 
should be used with caution in heart failure patients with NYHA functional classification I-II, (see 
section 4.3).  
•  5.1 Pharmacodynamics 
Addition of the following information: 
The antianginal and anti-ischaemic efficacy of Corlentor was studied in four five double-blind 
randomised trials (two three versus placebo, and one each versus atenolol and amlodipine). These 
trials included a total of 3,222 4,111 patients with chronic stable angina pectoris, of whom 2,168 
2,617 received ivabradine. 
….. 
In a 889-patients randomised placebo-controlled study, ivabradine given on top of atenolol 50 mg o.d. 
showed additional efficacy on all ETT parameters at the trough of drug activity (12 hours after oral 
intake). 
…..  
A large outcome study, BEAUTIFUL, was performed in 10917 patients with coronary artery disease 
and  left  ventricular  dysfunction  (LVEF<40%)  on  top  of  optimal  background  therapy  with  86.9%  of 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients  receiving  beta-blockers.  The  main  efficacy  criterion  was  the  composite  of  cardiovascular 
death,  hospitalization  for  acute  MI  or  hospitalization for  new  onset  or  worsening  heart failure.  The 
study showed no difference in the rate of the primary composite outcome in the ivabradine group by 
comparison to the placebo group (relative risk ivabradine:placebo 1.00, p=0.945).  
In  a  post-hoc  subgroup  of  patients  with  symptomatic  angina  at  randomisation  (n=1507),  no  safety 
signal  was  identified  regarding  cardiovascular  death,  hospitalization  for  acute  MI  or  heart  failure 
(ivabradine 12.0% versus placebo 15.5%, p=0.05).  
II.  OVERALL CONCLUSION AND BENEFIT RISK ASSESSMENT 
It is accepted that the study CL3-057 was able to demonstrate efficacy of ivabradine when given as 
add-on therapy on top of a beta-blocker, although the betablocker dose was likely to be suboptimal in 
some patients. It is considered acceptable that there are some patients on betablocker treatment who 
would benefit from ivabradine.  
Efficacy  was  not  directly  demonstrated  in  a  setting  where  add-on  ivabradine  is  compared  to  a 
treatment strategy with an increase to a maximal (tolerated) dose of the given beta-blocker. However, 
an indirect comparison, with its limitations, showed that ivabradine to atenolol had comparable effects 
to uptitration of 50 mg to 100 mg of atenolol. In addition, the MAH showed that also those patients 
with a lower baseline HR (between 60 and 70 bpm)  or patients that could be considered to be on a 
maximal effective atenolol dose had similar benefits, although not significant, of adding ivabradine to 
their beta-blocker therapy compared with the whole study population. A similar approach was taken 
during the assessment of ranolazine, another anti-anginal agent approved by the CHMP.  
The  supportive  large  safety  study  results  of  Beautiful  introduced  in  this  procedure  are  considered 
relevant and supportive of safety data in this population.   
In conclusion, the CHMP considered that the extension of indication is considered acceptable based on 
the  submitted  efficacy  and  safety  data  showing  that  the  benefit  /  risk  of  ivabradine  over  placebo  in 
combination with beta-blockers in patients inadequately controlled with an optimal betablocker dose 
and with a heart rate > 60 bpm can be considered positive.   
III.  CONCLUSION 
On 24 September 2009 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the 
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics, and Package Leaflet.  
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
