Summary of the risk management plan for Cosentyx 
(secukinumab)
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Cosentyx.    The  RMP 
details  important risks of Cosentyx, and how these risks can  be minimized, and 
how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about  Cosentyx’s  risks  and  uncertainties 
(missing information). 
Cosentyx’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  Cosentyx 
should be used. 
This summary of the  RMP for Cosentyx should be read  in the context of all this 
information  including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-
language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates 
of Cosentyx RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Cosentyx is authorized for:
Psoriasis (adults)
The treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in adults who are candidates 
for systemic therapy.
Psoriasis (pediatrics)
The treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents 
from the age of 6 years who are candidates for systemic therapy.
Psoriatic arthritis (PsA)
The treatment of active psoriatic arthritis in adult patients as a single agent or in 
combination with methotrexate when the response to previous disease-modifying 
anti-rheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy has been inadequate.
Ankylosing Spondylitis
The  treatment  of  active  ankylosing  spondylitis  in  adults  who  have  responded 
inadequately to conventional therapy.
Non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (nr-axSpA)
The treatment  of  active  non-radiographic  axial  spondyloarthritis  with objective 
signs  of  inflammation  as  indicated  by  elevated  C-reactive  protein  (CRP)  and/or
magnetic  resonance  imaging  (MRI)  evidence  in  adults  who  have  responded 
inadequately to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (JIA)
•
Enthesitis-Related Arthritis (ERA)
The treatment of active enthesitis-related arthritis in patients 6 years of age and 
older  as  a  single  agent  or  in  combination  with  methotrexate  (MTX),  when  the 
disease  has  responded  inadequately  to,  or  who  cannot  tolerate,  conventional 
therapy.
•
Juvenile Psoriatic Arthritis (JPsA)
The treatment of active juvenile psoriatic arthritis in patients 6 years of age and 
older  as  a  single  agent  or  in  combination  with  methotrexate  (MTX),  when  the 
disease  has  responded  inadequately  to,  or  who  cannot  tolerate,  conventional 
therapy. 
Hidradenitis Suppurativa (HS)
The treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (acne inversa) 
in adults with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS therapy. (See 
SmPC for the full indication).
It contains secukinumab as the active substance and it is given by subcutaneous 
injection  [powder  for  solution  for  injection,  solution  for  injection  in  pre-filled 
syringe or solution for injection in pre-filled pen]
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Cosentyx’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
Cosentyx’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage link to product’s EPAR summary landing 
webpage. 
page 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/cosentyx
EMA 
the 
on 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize or
further characterize the risks
Important risks of Cosentyx, together with measures to minimize such risks and 
the proposed studies for learning more about Cosentyx risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct 
use,  in  the  package  leaflet  and  SmPC  addressed  to  patients  and  healthcare 
professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so 
to ensure that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient 
(e.g. with or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected 
continuously  and  regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment  so  that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
If  important  information  that  may  affect  the  safe  use  of  Cosentyx  is  not  yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A: List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Cosentyx are risks that need special risk management activities 
to further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be 
safely  administered/taken.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or 
potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link 
with the use of Cosentyx. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with 
the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information 
refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine);
Table 1
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information
II.B: Summary of important risks
Infections and infestations
Hypersensitivity
Malignant or unspecified tumors
Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events 
(MACE)
Hepatitis B reactivation
Suicidal ideation and behavior
Fetal exposure in utero
Long-term safety data
Table 2
Important identified risk: Infections and infestations
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine
Risk factors and 
risk groups
As  with  any  immunomodulator,  secukinumab  has  the 
potential  to  increase  the  risk  of  infections.  In  clinical 
studies,  an  increased  risk  for  infections  have  been 
observed, mostly mild or moderate, responsive to usual 
treatment  and  not  requiring  discontinuation.  A  similar 
pattern  of  events  have  been  identified  in  the  post-
marketing setting and medical literature (Blauvelt 2016)
Severe psoriasis is recognized as a risk factor for 
infections (Wakkee et al 2011). Other predictors for 
multiple infectious diseases were the use of anti-
diabetic drugs, and COPD/anti-asthmatic drugs 
(Wakkee et al 2011). The use of systemic psoriasis 
therapies does seem to increase the risk of infections, 
although the individual long-term safety profiles are still 
being investigated in real-world use.
Spondyloarthropathies can be associated with an 
increased risk for infections with incidence rates of 
infection around 5.3 per 100 PY (Perez-Sola et al 2011; 
Grijalva et al 2011). In a recent systematic review of 
randomized trials, the risk of serious infections among 
patients with AS was 0.4 per 100 PY, while in those 
treated with TNF blockers the incidence was 2.2 per 100 
PY (Fouque-Aubert et al 2010).
In JIA, an increased risk for bacterial infections has been
described (Beukelmann et al 2012). Whether treatment 
with biologic agents further increases the risk is not clear 
(Aeschlimann 2019). Using claims data, Beukelman et al 
found that the rate of infections requiring hospitalization 
was not increased in patients with JIA treated with MTX 
or  anti-TNF,  but  was 
increased  with  high-dose 
glucocorticoids (Beukelmann et al 2012).
Cultures  from  early,  unruptured  HS  lesions  are  usually 
sterile. Whereas older and ruptured lesions and sinuses 
may  demonstrate  a  wide  variety  of  bacteria  (eg, 
staphylococci,  streptococci,  Gram-negative  rods,  and 
anaerobic  bacteria)  (Sartorius  et  al  2012).  Long-
standing,  poorly  controlled  HS  may  lead  to  significant 
complications  including  infectious  complications  (eg, 
lumbosacral 
bacterial 
osteomyelitis)  (Alikhan  et  al  2009).A  study  using 
National  Inpatient  Sample  (NIS)  from  the  Healthcare 
Cost  and  Utilization  Project  (HCUP),  showed  that 
inpatients  with  HS  had  a  higher  prevalence  (33·9% 
(33·1–34·6%) 95% CI) of serious infections than those 
without  HS,  with  a  significantly  higher  odds  of  any 
serious  infection:  aOR  2·30  (95%  CI  2·21–2·39). 
Inpatients  with  HS  with  multifactorial  comorbidities, 
notably  cancer  and  HIV,  appear  to  be  at  risk  for 
developing  infections.  Patients  with  HS  with  long-term 
systemic corticosteroid use (as judged by a diagnosis of 
Cushing syndrome or long-term corticosteroid use) were 
not  associated  with  increased  infections.  (Lee  et  al 
2019).
abscess, 
epidural 
sacral 
Risk minimization 
measures
Routine risk minimization measures
SmPC Section 4.3, 4.4, 4.8 
Additional risk minimization measures
No risk minimization measures 
Important identified risk: Hypersensitivity
Table 3
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine
including 
Hypersensitivity  events, 
rare  cases  of 
anaphylactic  reactions  have  been  observed  in  clinical 
studies. The majority of evens were mild to moderate. A 
similar pattern of events have been identified in the post-
marketing  setting  and  medical  literature,  although 
secukinumab displayed  a  minimal 
immunogenicity 
potential in pooled Phase 3 trials (Reich et al 2017)
Risk factors and 
risk groups
Patients with prior allergic reactions are at increased 
risk.
Risk minimization 
measures
Routine risk minimization measures
SmPC Section 4.3, 4.4, 4.8
Additional risk minimization measures
Table 4
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine
Risk factors and 
risk groups
No risk minimization measures
Important potential risk: Malignant or unspecified tumors
This is a therapeutic-class risk potentially associated with 
drugs  with  different  mechanisms  of  action  (e.g.  TNF-
increased  risk  of  malignant  and 
inhibitors);  an 
unspecified  tumors  have  not  been  demonstrated  in 
patients treated with secukinumab in clinical trials and in 
the post-marketing setting. 
Psoriasis:
Patients of older age, with previous skin cancer or actinic 
damage,  family  history  of  skin  cancers,  concurrent  or 
history  of  immunosuppressive  therapies  or  therapies 
known  to  increase  skin  cancer  risk  (i.e.,  cyclosporine, 
phototherapy  especially  PUVA)  are  reported  to  be  at 
increased risk of NMSC. It is possible that an increased 
reporting of NMSC with biologics may be attributable to 
increased detection of skin cancer rather than increased 
development;  however,  studies  comparing  NMSC  in 
patients  on  biologics  with  control  patients  also 
demonstrated increased rates of NMSC (Kamangar et al 
2012).
Psoriatic Arthritis
The subset of PsA patients treated with DMARDS may be 
at 
lymphoma.  Evidence  based 
conclusions  cannot  be  reached  with  regard  to  risk 
groups/risk  factors  for  NMSC  in  PsA  patients,  but  it  is 
possible  that  in  PsA  patients  with  plaque  psoriasis,  the 
risks may be shared with the overall psoriasis population.
Ankylosing Spondylitis
No specific risk groups or risk factors have been identified 
for malignancy in this patient population.
JIA
Slightly increased risk of lymphoproliferative, but not of 
other malignancies, has been reported, but there was no 
sign that the risk increased further after the introduction 
of DMARDs (Horne et al 2019)
Hidradenitis Suppurativa:
increased  risk  of 
As described in Section 2.5, there is a known increased 
risk  of  malignancies  in  HS  patients.  Squamous  Cell 
Carcinoma (SCC) is a known complication from HS, it has 
been reported in individual cases and appears to be more 
common  in  men.  A  2011  review  of  published  cases  of 
cutaneous  SCC  arising  in  HS  found  that  SCC  primarily 
occurred 20 to 30 years after the onset of HS (range 2 to 
50  years)  (Losanoff  et  al  2011).  Approximately  half  of 
these  patients  died  of  metastatic  disease.  Human 
papilloma  virus 
important 
contributing factor to the development of SCC in lesions 
of HS (Lavogiez et al 2010).
infection  may  be  an 
No risk minimization measures.
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
CorEvitas Psoriasis Registry:
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the 
post-authorisation development plan
Risk minimization 
measures
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities
Important potential risk: MACE
Table 5
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine
Risk factors and 
risk groups
This is a therapeutic-class risk potentially associated with 
drugs  with  different  mechanisms  of  action  (e.g.  TNF-
inhibitors);  an  increased  risk  of  MACE  have  not  been 
demonstrated  in  patients  treated  with  secukinumab in 
clinical trials and in the post-marketing setting. 
Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis:
The  increased  cardiovascular  risk  in  psoriasis,  and  PsA 
patients is partly due to the association of psoriasis with 
factors that are known predictors of cardiovascular risk, 
including  hyperlipidemia,  obesity,  hypertension,  and 
diabetes. Whether an increased risk may also be linked 
to  an  independent  role  of  psoriasis  as  a  cardiovascular 
risk predictor over and above the association with these 
factors is still controversial, and robust data of a cause-
effect  relationship  are  lacking.  The  common  role  of  a 
chronic inflammatory pathway seems plausible and it is 
supported by some studies in the medical literature.
Ankylosing Spondylitis:
Evidence suggests that AS patients may be at a slightly 
increased  risk  of  MACE,  although  some  studies  have 
failed to identify any increase. No specific risk groups or 
risk  factors  have  been  identified  within  the  overall 
population. The common role of a chronic inflammatory 
pathway  as  a  contributing  factor  to  any  increased  risk 
seems  plausible  and  it  is  supported  by  some  studies  in 
the medical literature.
Similarly  in  JIA,  although  several  CVD  risk  factors  are 
increased,  no  increase  in  CVD  events  was  shown  in 
patients,  up  to  29  years  following  disease  onset  when 
compared  to  the  general  population  (Anderson  et  al 
2016).
Hidradenitis Suppurativa: 
As  described 
including 
cerebrovascular events and myocardial infarction as well 
as  other  risk  factors  for  cardiovascular  disease  such  as 
metabolic syndrome or T2DM or obesity, are frequently 
associated with HS.
in  Section  2.5  MACE, 
Risk minimization 
measures
No risk minimization measures
Table 6
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine
Important potential risk: Hepatitis B reactivation
This is a therapeutic-class risk potentially associated with 
immunomodulating drugs.
Risk factors and 
risk groups
The risk factors for HBV reactivation during 
immunosuppression include history of prior inactive or 
resolved HBV infection. Reactivation is also more 
common in men, younger patients, and patients co-
infected with hepatitis C virus (Motaparthi et al 2014).
Risk minimization 
measures
No risk minimization measures
Important potential risk: Suicidal ideation and behavior
Table 7
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine
Risk factors and 
risk groups
Risk minimization 
measures
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities
This is a therapeutic-class risk potentially associated 
with drugs with different mechanisms of action (e.g. 
brodalumab); and no increased risk of suicidality has 
been identified in clinical trials and in the post-
marketing settings
Although no particular ‘at-risk’ patient subset has been 
identified, some studies suggest a higher risk of 
depression and SIB in patients with more severe forms 
of disease (Gupta and Gupta 1998, Kurd et al 2010, 
McDonough et al 2014, Jensen et al 2016).
For hidradenitis suppurativa, the patients with high 
severity might have an impaired quality of life (QoL) as 
social interactions might be limited. As described in 
Section 2.5 there is a known association with impaired 
mental health notable anxiety and depression
No risk minimization measures
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
CorEvitas Psoriasis Registry:
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the 
post-authorisation development plan
Table 8
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine
Missing information: Fetal exposure in utero
There are no adequate data from the use of secukinumab 
in pregnant women. Animal reproduction studies are not 
always predictive of human response.
Risk minimization 
measures
Routine risk minimization measures
SmPC Section 4.6
Additional risk minimization measures
No risk minimization measures
Missing information: Long-term safety data
Table 9
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine
Risk minimization 
measures
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities
Long-term safety data (> 6 years) continues to be 
collected in two ongoing trials in pediatric patients (age 
≥ 6 years) with PsO and in a 2-year extension study in 
pediatric patients with JIA (age 2-6 years).
In addition, long-term safety data continues to be 
collected in the ongoing CorEvitas registry in a real-
world population of moderate-to-severe psoriasis 
patients (including PsA patients) on secukinumab 
therapy.
No risk minimization measures
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
CorEvitas Psoriasis Registry:
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the 
post-authorisation development plan
CAIN457F2304E1:
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the 
post-authorisation development plan
II.C: Post-authorization development plan
II.C.1. Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific 
obligation for Cosentyx.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan
Table 10
Study short name 
Other studies in the post-authorization development plan
Rationale and study objectives
CorEvitas Psoriasis 
Registry
CAIN457F2304E1
The primary goal of the registry is to assess the 
incidence and nature of malignancies in a real-world 
population of moderate-to-severe psoriasis patients 
(including PsA patients) on Cosentyx therapy.
Study short name 
Secukinumab long-term 
efficacy, safety and 
tolerability in JPsA and 
ERA up to 4 years
Rationale and study objectives
The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the 
long-term efficacy of subcutaneously administered 
secukinumab (provided as pre-filled syringes) with 
respect to JIA ACR30 response over time up to Week 
308 visit in patients with active JPsA and ERA 
subtypes of JIA and who completed the Phase III 
study CAIN457F2304
