EMA/635489/2015  
EMEA/H/C/003960 
EPAR summary for the public 
Cotellic 
cobimetinib 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Cotellic. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Cotellic. 
For practical information about using Cotellic, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Cotellic and what is it used for? 
Cotellic is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with melanoma (a type of skin cancer) that has 
spread to other parts of the body or cannot be surgically removed. Cotellic is used in combination with 
another medicine called vemurafenib. It is only for patients whose melanoma tumour cells have been 
shown to have a specific mutation (change) in the BRAF gene called ‘BRAF V600’. 
Cotellic contains the active substance cobimetinib. 
How is Cotellic used? 
Treatment with Cotellic must be started and supervised by a doctor experienced in the use of cancer 
medicines. Before starting treatment, patients must be tested for the BRAF V600 mutation. The 
medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
Cotellic is available as tablets (20 mg). It is given at a recommended dose of 60 mg a day (3 tablets of 
20 mg). Treatment with Cotellic is given in 28 day cycles: the tablets are taken for 21 consecutive 
days, followed by a 7-day break. The doctor may need to interrupt or stop treatment, or reduce the 
dose, if the patient experiences certain side effects.Treatment should continue for as long as the 
disease improves or remains stable and side effects are tolerable. For more information, see the 
summary of product characteristics. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Cotellic work? 
The active substance in Cotellic, cobimetinib, is an inhibitor of MEK, a protein involved in stimulating 
normal cell division. In melanoma with the BRAF V600 mutation, an abnormal form of the protein BRAF 
is produced, which switches on the protein MEK. This encourages the cancer to develop by allowing 
uncontrolled division of the cancer cells. Cotellic works by blocking MEK directly and by preventing its 
activation by the abnormal form of BRAF, thereby slowing down the growth and spread of the cancer. 
Cotellic is only given to patients whose melanoma is caused by the BRAF V600 mutation and must be 
used in combination with vemurafenib, which is a BRAF inhibitor. 
What benefits of Cotellic have been shown in studies? 
Cotellic has been studied in one main study involving 495 patients with melanoma that had spread or 
that could not be surgically removed, and whose melanoma had a BRAF V600 mutation. Patients had 
not been previously treated and were given either Cotellic with vemurafenib or placebo (a dummy 
treatment) with vemurafenib; the main measure of effectiveness was how long patients lived without 
their disease getting worse (progression-free survival). In this study, adding Cotellic to vemurafenib 
was more effective than adding placebo to vemurafenib: it took on average 12.3 months before the 
disease got worse in patients given Cotellic, compared with 7.2 months in patients given placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Cotellic? 
The most common side effects with Cotellic (which may affect more than 1 in 5 people) are diarrhoea, 
rash, nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, pyrexia (fever), photosensitivity (light sensitivity) reaction, 
abnormal results for certain liver function tests (increased levels of alanine aminotransferase, 
aspartate aminotransferase) and abnormal results for an enzyme related to muscle breakdown 
(creatine phosphokinase). 
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions reported with Cotellic, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Cotellic approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Cotellic’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The Committee 
noted that Cotellic in combination with vemurafenib had shown a clinically relevant benefit in patients 
whose melanoma had a BRAF V600 mutation, when compared with vemurafenib alone. Because 
Cotellic and vemurafenib work by blocking different proteins important for cancer growth, combining 
them results in a better response and could delay cancer cells becoming resistant to vemurafenib. 
Although a supportive study showed that patients who were not previously treated with BRAF or MEK 
inhibitor medicines (such as vemurafenib) seemed to benefit the most from the therapy, the 
Committee considered that patients who previously received BRAF inhibitors may still benefit from 
treatment with Cotellic and vemurafenib. In terms of safety, the side effects were considered 
acceptable and manageable with appropriate measures. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Cotellic? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Cotellic is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Cotellic, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Cotellic  
EMA/635489/2015 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Cotellic 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Cotellic on 20 November 2015. 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Cotellic can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Cotellic, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2015. 
Cotellic  
EMA/635489/2015 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
