18 June 2021  
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
COVID-19 VACCINE MODERNA 
Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L. 
Reports of inflammation of the heart muscle 
(myocarditis) and membrane (pericarditis) in a 
small number of people after vaccination 
continue to be assessed under an accelerated 
timetable.  
There are no updates to the product 
information. 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna is effective in 
preventing COVID-19. 
This safety update follows the last update of 11 May 2021. 
Safety updates provide information about the assessments of emerging 
worldwide safety data since marketing authorisation for COVID-19 
vaccines. Safety assessments are carried out  primarily by EMA’s 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC). The safety 
updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: authorised.  
All published safety updates for COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna are available 
at COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna: safety updates. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE MODERNA 
Since its  marketing authorisation in  the European Union  (EU) on 6 January 
2021  until 10  June 2021, more than 24 million doses of COVID-19 Vaccine 
Moderna have been administered in the EU/EEA 1. 
1.  Updates on safety of COVID-19 
Vaccine Moderna  
Based on new safety data, including  the latest Monthly Summary Safety 
Report (MSSR) 2 from the marketing authorisation holder and data 
reported by patients and healthcare professionals to EudraVigilance (see 
section 3), PRAC assessed the following at its  meeting held 7 to 10 June 
2021:   
Myocarditis and pericarditis  
PRAC is continuing  its assessment of myocarditis (inflammation of the 
heart muscle) and pericarditis (inflammation of the membrane around the 
heart) reported in a small number of people following  vaccination with 
COVID-19 vaccines. This assessment follows case reports of 
myocarditis/pericarditis after vaccination with  Comirnaty, another COVID-
19 vaccine, as presented in the  Comirnaty safety update of May 2021 3. 
For COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna, cases were considered by PRAC in May 
2021 4, and 16 cases of myocarditis and 18  cases of pericarditis had been 
reported from the EU/EEA to EudraVigilance by the end of May 2021, at 
which time around 19 million  doses of COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna had 
been administered in the EU/EEA.  Cases reported to EudraVigilance 
concern suspected side effects, i.e. medical events that have been 
observed after vaccination, but which  are not necessarily related to or 
caused by the vaccine.  
Currently, further analysis is needed to conclude whether there is a causal 
relationship between myocarditis/pericarditis and COVID-19 vaccines, 
and PRAC has requested additional data from the  companies marketing 
the vaccines.  
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)  collects these data 
from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 Monthly Summary Safety Reports, also known as pandemic summary safety reports, 
will be compiled by the marketing authorisation holders to support timely and continuous 
benefit-risk evaluations for COVID-19  vaccines used during the pandemic. These reports 
complement the submission of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
3 See safety update for Comirnaty of 11 May 2021  
4 See safety update for COVID-19  Vaccine Moderna of 11 May 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE MODERNA 
PRAC encourages all healthcare professionals and patients to report any 
cases of myocarditis or pericarditis and other adverse events occurring in 
people after vaccination.  
For Comirnaty and COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna, PRAC is conducting  the 
assessment under an accelerated timetable, and finalisation is expected in 
July 2021. 
Myocarditis and pericarditis are inflammatory diseases of the heart that 
can occur following infections or immune diseases. Depending on the data 
source, the incidence estimates for myocarditis and pericarditis in the 
general (unvaccinated) EU/EEA population prior to the COVID-19 
pandemic range from 1 to  10 in 100,000  people per year. Symptoms of 
myocarditis and pericarditis can vary but  often include shortness of 
breath, a forceful heartbeat that may be irregular and chest pain. The 
conditions usually improve on their own or with treatment.  Patients who 
have such symptoms should consult their doctor 5. 
2.  COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna was authorised in the  EU on 6 January 2021 
for use in people aged 18 years and older to prevent COVID-19 when 
infected with  the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a potentially 
severe disease that may result in death. 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna contains a molecule called mRNA, which  the 
body uses to temporarily produce the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The 
mRNA is broken down shortly after vaccination. The spike protein does not 
cause COVID-19.  
Before COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna was granted an EU marketing 
authorisation, the efficacy and safety of the vaccine were assessed 
through pre-clinical studies and large clinical trials. More than 14,000 
participants have been given the  vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna are usually mild or moderate and get better 
within  a few days after vaccination. 
More information on how COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna works and its use is 
available in all EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes 
information on use in  pregnant and breastfeeding women and 
immunocompromised individuals. 
The full product information with  the  summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages. 
5 See EMA public health communication on myocarditis and pericarditis with COVID-19 
vaccines of 11 June 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/5 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE MODERNA 
3.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in 
line with  the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU  Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
Collecting case reports of suspected side effects 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors reports of suspected 
side effects observed in vaccinated individuals. These case reports are 
collected and recorded in EudraVigilance, a system operated by EMA  for 
managing and analysing information on suspected side effects of 
medicines. 
Vaccinated individuals and healthcare professionals should report 
suspected side effects via the national reporting systems, which  also 
contribute to  EudraVigilance. For more information, see Reporting side 
effects. Information on how to report side effects in your Member State is 
available in the package leaflet and the  list of national competent 
authorities. 
You may visit EudraVigilance – European database of suspected drug 
reaction reports in all EU/EEA languages and search for “COVID-19 MRNA 
VACCINE MODERNA (CX-024414)”  to see all suspected side effects 
reported for COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna in the EU/EEA. Please note that 
these reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. these 
events may not necessarily have been caused by, or be otherwise related 
to, the  vaccine. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that  markets COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna will  continue to 
provide results from the  main clinical trial,  which is ongoing for up to  two 
years. It will also conduct additional studies to monitor the  safety and 
effectiveness of the vaccine as it  is used in vaccination campaigns and 
other clinical practice. For the  list of planned and ongoing safety studies 
for COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna, see the risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna is in 
place. This describes how the  company will collect data on the vaccine’s 
efficacy and safety for its  potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU  Member 
States looking at  real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE MODERNA 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083  HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to  www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31  (0)88  781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European  Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
