17 March 2022 
COVID-19 vaccines 
safety update  
Comirnaty (BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH) 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (Janssen-Cilag International NV) 
Nuvaxovid (Novavax CZ, a.s.) 
Spikevax (Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L.) 
Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca AB) 
The safety of authorised COVID-19 vaccines is continuously monitored, and 
updated information is regularly provided to the public.  
Safety updates outline the outcomes from assessments of emerging 
worldwide safety data carried out mainly by EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee (PRAC) (section 1). They also outline how safety is 
monitored and contain high-level information on suspected adverse reaction 
reports, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (section 2).  
This safety update follows the update of 17 February 2022 and reflects the 
main assessment outcomes of the PRAC meetings held 7 to 10 March 2022. 
EMA confirms that the benefits of all currently authorised COVID-19 
vaccines continue to outweigh their side effects, given the risk of COVID-19 
illness and related complications, including hospitalisation and death. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Key messages from the latest safety 
assessments 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
PRAC recommends updating the product information to include cutaneous 
small vessel vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin) as a new 
side effect of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen.  
Spikevax 
PRAC recommends updating the product information with a warning to 
reflect the potential of flare-ups of capillary leak syndrome (leakage of fluid 
from blood vessels) following vaccination with Spikevax, in patients who 
have a medical history of this extremely rare condition.  
1.  Latest safety assessments    
Comirnaty (BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH)                                                                                                                                                                                                     
About 592 million doses of Comirnaty in adults and 25 
million doses of Comirnaty in children and adolescents 
(below 18 years of age) were administered in the EU/EEA 
from authorisation to 28 February 2022.1 
Capillary leak syndrome (CLS)                            
No update to the product information required 
An assessment of whether vaccination with Comirnaty can cause capillary 
leak syndrome (CLS) has been completed. PRAC has concluded that there 
are currently insufficient data to support an update of the product 
information.  
In the general population, CLS is an extremely rare, serious condition that 
causes fluid leakage from small blood vessels (capillaries), resulting in 
swelling mainly in the arms and legs, low blood pressure, thickening of the 
blood and low blood levels of albumin (an important blood protein). The 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
assessment considered spontaneously reported cases of suspected side 
effects, i.e. medical events that have been observed after vaccination, but 
which are not necessarily related to or caused by the vaccine. 
Further information can be found in the PRAC highlights of March 2022.  
Information on how Comirnaty works is provided in the medicine overview 
(in all EU/EEA languages). Full information on the vaccine, including all 
identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the 
product information (in all EU/EEA languages).  
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (Janssen-Cilag International NV) 
About 19.2 million doses of COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen were administered to adults in the EU/EEA from 
authorisation to 28 February 2022.1 
Cutaneous small vessel vasculitis                                     
Update to the product information 
PRAC has recommended that small vessel vasculitis with cutaneous 
manifestations (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin which may result 
in a rash, pointed or flat, red spots under the skin’s surface and bruising) 
should be added to the product information of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
as a possible side effect of unknown frequency. Small vessel vasculitis can 
be caused by viral or bacterial infections as well as by medicines and 
vaccines. Generally, manifestations of the disease spontaneously resolve 
over time with appropriate supportive care. 
The recommendation to update the product information should include the 
side effect with a frequency category of ‘unknown frequency’; it is generally 
difficult to robustly estimate side effect frequencies from cases of suspected 
side effects that have been reported spontaneously by healthcare 
professionals or patients. 
PRAC had previously recommended adding cutaneous small vessel vasculitis 
to the product information as a possible side effect of COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen (see safety update of 8 September 2021), However, a re-
assessment was requested by the marketing authorisation holder. Following 
this re-assessment, PRAC has maintained its conclusion. The assessment 
considered spontaneously reported cases of suspected side effects, i.e. 
medical events that have been observed after vaccination, but which are 
not necessarily related to or caused by the vaccine. 
Further information can be found in the PRAC highlights of March 2022.  
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Myocardial infarction                                          
Assessment started 
PRAC is aware of the results of an epidemiological study based on French 
national databases and posted on the EPI-PHARE website suggesting a 
slightly increased risk for myocardial infarction (heart attack) with COVID-
19 Vaccine Janssen and within 3 weeks of first dose.  
PRAC will collect and assess all available data, including data from the 
marketing authorisation holder, to determine whether myocardial infarction 
may be caused by COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. 
Information on how COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen works is provided in the 
medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the 
vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is 
available in the product information (in all EU/EEA languages). The product 
information will be updated to reflect the latest safety assessment 
outcomes. 
Nuvaxovid (Novavax CZ, a.s.) 
There are no safety updates for Nuvaxovid. By 28 February 2022, the 
vaccine was not yet in use in the EU/EEA1. Information on how Nuvaxovid 
works is provided in the medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages); full 
information on the vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on 
how to use it, is available in the product information (in all EU/EEA 
languages). 
Spikevax (Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L.)                                         
About 150 million doses of Spikevax in adults and 1.9 
million doses of Spikevax in children and adolescents 
(below 18 years of age) were administered in the EU/EEA 
from authorisation to 28 February 2022.1 
Capillary leak syndrome (CLS)                            
Update to the product information 
An assessment of whether vaccination with Spikevax can cause capillary 
leak syndrome (CLS) has been completed. PRAC has recommended 
updating the product information with a warning to reflect the potential 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
occurrence of CLS flare-up following vaccination with Spikevax in patients 
who have a history of this extremely rare condition. The assessment 
considered spontaneously reported cases of suspected side effects, i.e. 
medical events that have been observed after vaccination, but which are 
not necessarily related to or caused by the vaccine 
In the general population, CLS is an extremely rare, serious condition that 
causes fluid leakage from small blood vessels (capillaries), resulting in 
swelling mainly in the arms and legs, low blood pressure, thickening of the 
blood and low blood levels of albumin (an important blood protein). 
Further information can be found in the PRAC highlights of March 2022.  
A few cases of capillary leak syndrome (CLS) flare-up 
(causing fluid leakage from small blood vessels (capillaries) 
resulting in rapid swelling of the arms and legs, sudden 
weight gain and feeling faint, low blood pressure) have been 
reported following vaccination with Spikevax. If you have 
previously had episodes of CLS, talk to a doctor before you 
are given Spikevax.   
Information on how Spikevax works is provided in the medicine overview 
(in all EU/EEA languages). Full information on the vaccine, including all 
identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the 
product information (in all EU/EEA languages). The product information will 
be updated to reflect the latest safety assessment outcomes. 
Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca AB) 
About 69 million doses of Vaxzevria were administered 
to adults in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 28 February 
2022.1 
Myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism and 
thromboses                                                    
Assessment started 
PRAC is aware of results of an epidemiological study based on French 
national databases and posted on the EPI-PHARE website which suggest a 
slightly increased risk of myocardial infarction (heart attack) and pulmonary 
embolism (a blocked blood vessel in the lungs) following vaccination with 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Vaxzevria. In addition, a slightly increased risk of venous and/or arterial 
thromboses (blood clots) has been noted in other published studies.2 
PRAC will collect and assess all available data, including data from the 
marketing authorisation holder, to determine whether the conditions may 
be caused by Vaxzevria. 
Information on how Vaxzevria works is provided in the medicine overview 
(in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the vaccine, including all 
identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the 
product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
2.  How safety is monitored 
Before COVID-19 vaccines were granted EU marketing authorisation, the 
efficacy and safety of the vaccines were assessed in pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. 
All relevant new information emerging worldwide on the vaccines since 
marketing authorisation is collected and promptly assessed. This is in line 
with the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
EMA’s detailed assessments take into account available data from all 
sources to draw robust conclusions on the safety of the vaccines. These 
data include clinical trial results, reports of suspected side effects, 
epidemiological studies monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological 
investigations and any other relevant information. 
Summary safety reports 
The pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines includes monthly 
summary safety reports (MSSRs) which are compiled by the marketing 
authorisation holders to support timely and continuous benefit-risk 
evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. MSSRs are 
intended to be compiled in the first months of marketing. Afterwards, 
summary safety reports may cover time periods longer than a month or not 
be necessary anymore. summary safety reports complement periodic safety 
update reports (PSURs).  
2 Including: Whiteley et al. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1003926 and Hippisley-
Cox et al. https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.n1931 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system.  
Healthcare professionals and vaccinated individuals are encouraged to 
report to their national competent authorities all suspected side effects 
individuals may have experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is 
unclear whether the vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to 
report, including the importance of detailing the vaccine product name and 
the batch, see Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU database 
used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. Publicly available 
information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – European database of 
suspected drug reaction reports (in all EU/EEA languages).  
As of 28 February 2022, EudraVigilance contained the following figures: 
•  Comirnaty: a total of 636,973 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 7,411 of these reported 
a fatal outcome3,4  (by the same date about 617 million doses of 
Comirnaty had been given to people in the EU/EEA1). 
•  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen: a total of 43,650 cases of suspected side 
effects spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 294 of these 
reported a fatal outcome3,4 (by the same date, about 19.2 million doses 
of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen had been administered to people in the 
EU/EEA) 
•  Spikevax: a total of 171,454 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 931 of these reported a 
fatal outcome3,4 (by the same date, about 152 million doses of Spikevax 
had been given to people in the EU/EEA1) 
•  Vaxzevria: a total of 256,038 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 1,485 of these reported 
a fatal outcome3,4 (by the same date, about 69 million doses of 
Vaxzevria had been given to people in the EU/EEA1). 
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination does 
not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. This may 
have been caused, for example, by health problems not related to 
the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/9 
 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment.  
Planned and ongoing studies 
The companies that market COVID-19 vaccines continue to provide results 
from ongoing clinical trials. They also conduct additional studies to monitor 
the safety and effectiveness of the vaccines as they are used in vaccination 
campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned and ongoing 
safety studies with COVID-19 vaccines, see the respective risk management 
plan: Comirnaty, COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, Nuvaxovid, Spikevax, and 
Vaxzevria.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) is in place for each authorised COVID-
19 vaccine: Comirnaty, COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, Nuvaxovid, Spikevax, 
and Vaxzevria. The PIP describes how the company will collect data on the 
vaccine’s efficacy and safety for its potential use in children. Two vaccines, 
Comirnaty and Spikevax, are authorised for use in children. 
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member States 
looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the safety and 
effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant women.  
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 8/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 9/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
