18 June 2021 
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
VAXZEVRIA 
AstraZeneca AB 
People who have previously had capillary leak 
syndrome must not receive Vaxzevria.  
Capillary leak syndrome may also occur as a 
side effect of Vaxzevria. 
The product information will be updated.    
Vaxzevria is effective in preventing COVID-19. 
This safety update follows the last update of 21 May 2021. 
Safety updates provide information about the assessments of emerging 
worldwide safety data since marketing authorisation for COVID-19 
vaccines. Safety assessments are carried out  primarily by EMA’s 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC). The safety 
updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: authorised.  
All published safety updates for Vaxzevria are available at Vaxzevria: 
safety updates.  
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
Since its  marketing authorisation in  the European Union  (EU) on 29 
January 2021  until  10 June 2021,  almost 46  million doses of Vaxzevria 
have been administered in the  EU/EEA 1. 
1.  Updates on safety of Vaxzevria 
Based on new safety data, including  the latest Monthly  Summary Safety 
Report (MSSR) 2 from the marketing authorisation holder and data 
reported by patients and healthcare professionals to EudraVigilance (see 
section 3), PRAC assessed the following at its  meeting held 7 to 10 June 
2021:   
Capillary leak syndrome 
PRAC identified capillary leak syndrome as a side effect of Vaxzevria and 
also concluded that  people who have previously had capillary leak 
syndrome must not  be vaccinated with  Vaxzevria (contraindication). The 
product information will be updated accordingly, together with  a warning 
to raise awareness among healthcare professionals and patients of this 
risk. Patients  with an acute episode of capillary leak syndrome following 
vaccination require prompt treatment and may require intensive 
supportive therapy and continuous specialist monitoring. 
Capillary leak syndrome is a very rare, serious condition that  causes fluid 
leakage from small blood vessels (capillaries), resulting in swelling mainly 
in the arms and legs, low blood pressure, thickening of the blood and low 
blood levels of albumin (an important blood protein). 
The conclusion is based on an in-depth  review of six cases of capillary leak 
syndrome in people who had received Vaxzevria (a total of 14 reports of 
capillary leak syndrome to EudraVigilance were reviewed initially, out  of 
which six had sufficient information for further assessment and were 
considered to be cases of capillary leak syndrome). Most of the cases 
occurred in women and within  four days of vaccination. Three of those 
affected had a history of capillary leak syndrome, and one of them 
subsequently died. These cases were reported from the EU/EEA and the 
United  Kingdom, where a total of more than 78  million doses of Vaxzevria 
had been administered as of 27 May 2021 3.  The product information will 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)  collects these data 
from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 Monthly Summary Safety Reports, also referred to as pandemic summary safety 
reports, will be compiled by the marketing authorisation holders to support timely and 
continuous benefit-risk evaluations for COVID-19  vaccines used during the pandemic. 
These reports complement the submission of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
3 For the latest UK data, see Coronavirus vaccine – weekly summary of Yellow Card 
reporting 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
list capillary leak syndrome as a side effect of unknown frequency, 
because it is generally difficult  to robustly estimate side effect frequencies 
from spontaneously reported cases of suspected side effects.     
A direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) to raise awareness 
will be sent in due course to healthcare professionals prescribing, 
dispensing or administering the  vaccine. The DHPC will  also be published 
on the EMA website. 
People who have been vaccinated with  Vaxzevria should seek immediate 
medical assistance if they experience rapid swelling of the arms and legs 
or sudden weight  gain in the days following  vaccination. These symptoms 
may be associated with  feeling faint (due to low blood pressure).   
PRAC will  continue to monitor for cases of capillary leak syndrome and will 
take further actions if necessary. PRAC also asked the marketing 
authorisation holder for further information about a possible mechanism 
for the development of capillary leak syndrome following vaccination 4. 
Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) 
PRAC continued assessing cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) 
reported after vaccination with  Vaxzevria.  
GBS is an immune system disorder that  causes nerve inflammation and 
can result in pain, numbness, muscle weakness and difficulty walking.  
A total of 156 cases of GBS had been reported from the EU/EEA  to 
EudraVigilance with  Vaxzevria by the end of May 2021,  at which time 
around 40 million doses of Vaxzevria had been administered in the 
EU/EEA. Reported cases concern suspected side effects, i.e. medical 
events that  have been observed after vaccination, but which are not 
necessarily related to or caused by the vaccine.  
PRAC is collecting further data in order to conclude its assessment. This 
includes data requested from the  marketing authorisation holder, in 
particular refined analyses taking into account GBS frequencies in the 
general (non-vaccinated) population by age group and sex, an in-depth 
review of all data from pre-clinical studies, clinical trials, vaccination 
campaigns and the scientific literature, and investigations into  the 
biological plausibility of a possible causal relationship between GBS and 
Vaxzevria.  
PRAC encourages all healthcare professionals and patients to report any 
cases of GBS and other adverse events in  people after vaccination.  
4 See EMA public health communication on capillary leak syndrome with Vaxzevria of 11 
June 2021  
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
Myocarditis and pericarditis  
PRAC is continuing  its assessment of myocarditis (inflammation of the 
heart muscle) and pericarditis (inflammation of the membrane around the 
heart) reported in a small number of people following  vaccination with 
COVID-19 vaccines. This assessment follows case reports of 
myocarditis/pericarditis after vaccination with  Comirnaty, another COVID-
19 vaccine, as presented in the  Comirnaty safety update of May 2021 5.  
For Vaxzevria, 38 cases of myocarditis and 47 cases of pericarditis had 
been reported from the EU/EEA  to EudraVigilance by the end of May 2021, 
at which time  around 40 million  doses of Vaxzevria had been administered 
in the EU/EEA.  Cases reported to EudraVigilance concern suspected side 
effects, i.e. medical events that  have been observed after vaccination, but 
which are not necessarily related to or caused by the  vaccine.  
Currently, further analysis is needed to conclude whether there is a causal 
relationship between myocarditis/pericarditis and COVID-19 vaccines, 
and PRAC has requested additional data from the  companies marketing 
the vaccines.  
PRAC encourages all healthcare professionals and patients to report any 
cases of myocarditis or pericarditis and other adverse events occurring in 
people after vaccination.   
Myocarditis and pericarditis are inflammatory diseases of the heart that 
can occur following infections or immune diseases. Depending on the data 
source, the incidence estimates for myocarditis and pericarditis in the 
general (unvaccinated) EU/EEA population prior to the COVID-19 
pandemic range from 1 to  10 in 100,000  people per year. Symptoms of 
myocarditis and pericarditis can vary but  often include shortness of 
breath, a forceful heartbeat that may be irregular and chest pain. The 
conditions usually improve on their own or with treatment.  Patients who 
have such symptoms should consult their doctor 6.  
Embolic and thrombotic events with a focus on 
thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome 
(TTS) 
In May 2021, the  product information of Vaxzevria was updated with 
regard to the very rare risk of thrombosis (formation of blood clots in  the 
blood vessels) with thrombocytopenia (low blood platelets) syndrome 
(TTS) 7. In June 2021,  PRAC considered the current data consistent with 
the aspects known so far for TTS.  
TTS requires rapid identification  and urgent clinical management. On 7 
June 2021,  EMA issued a communication to raise awareness of clinical 
care recommendations to manage suspected TTS. The recommendations 
5 See safety update for Comirnaty of 11 May 2021  
6 See EMA public health communication on myocarditis and pericarditis with COVID-19 
vaccines of 11 June 2021 
7 See safety update for COVID-19  Vaccine Janssen of 11 May 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/7 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
from the  International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis (ISTH) 8 
and learned societies in  EU Member States were specifically highlighted 9.   
PRAC will  continue to closely monitor TTS. 
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM) 
and encephalitis  
PRAC has started an assessment of cases of acute disseminated 
encephalomyelitis (ADEM) and encephalitis reported as suspected side 
effects of Vaxzevria to EudraVigilance.  
ADEM is an autoimmune disease characterised by sudden, widespread 
inflammation in the brain and spinal cord; encephalitis is inflammation of 
the brain. 
Ten cases of ADEM and 33 cases of encephalitis had been reported from 
the EU/EEA  to EudraVigilance with  Vaxzevria by the end of May 2021,  at 
which time around 40 million  doses of Vaxzevria had been administered in 
the EU/EEA.  Cases reported to EudraVigilance concern suspected side 
effects, i.e. medical events that  have been observed after vaccination, but 
which are not necessarily related to or caused by the  vaccine.  
At present a causal relationship of these conditions with  Vaxzevria has not 
been confirmed, and further data will  be compiled and assessed. This 
includes a cumulative review of all cases of ADEM and encephalitis, 
including an observed-versus-expected analysis with stratification  by age 
and taking into account different possible risk periods, and an in-depth 
discussion, classification and causality assessment of each case requested 
from the  marketing authorisation holder.  
PRAC encourages all healthcare professionals and patients to report any 
cases of ADEM or encephalitis and other adverse events occurring after 
vaccination.  
Pain and influenza-like symptoms 
PRAC revised the risk management plan in the context of an ongoing 
review of clinical trial data by the  Committee for Medicinal Products for 
Human Use (CHMP)  to add pain in the extremity (limb),  abdominal (belly) 
pain and influenza-like symptoms (such as high  temperature, sore throat, 
runny nose, cough and chills) to the  product information of Vaxzevria as 
side effects. 
8 See International Society of Thrombosis and Haemostasis  
9 See EMA public health communication on clinical care recommendations to manage 
suspected thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome of 7 June 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
2.  Other information for Vaxzevria 
Vaxzevria (previously COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca) is a vaccine that 
was authorised in  the EU on 29 January 2021 for use in people aged 18 
years and older to prevent COVID-19 when infected with the  coronavirus 
SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a potentially  severe disease that may result in 
death. 
Vaxzevria contains an adenovirus that has been modified to carry 
molecules of DNA, which the body uses to temporarily produce the SARS-
CoV-2 spike protein. The spike protein does not cause COVID-19. The 
adenovirus cannot reproduce and does not cause viral disease. 
Before Vaxzevria was granted an EU marketing authorisation, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. More than 12,000  participants have been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
Vaxzevria are usually mild or moderate and get  better within  a few days 
after vaccination. 
More information on how Vaxzevria works and its use is available in all 
EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes information on 
use in pregnant and breastfeeding women and immunocompromised 
individuals. 
The full product information with  the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages. 
3.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
Vaxzevria is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with  the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the  regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission). 
Collecting case reports of suspected side effects 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors reports of suspected 
side effects observed in vaccinated individuals. These case reports are 
collected and recorded in EudraVigilance, a system operated by EMA  for 
managing and analysing information on suspected side effects of 
medicines. 
Vaccinated individuals and healthcare professionals should report 
suspected side effects via the national reporting systems, which  also 
contribute to  EudraVigilance. For more information, see Reporting 
suspected side effects. Information on how to report in your Member State 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/7 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
is available in the package leaflet and via the list of national competent 
authorities. 
You may visit EudraVigilance – European database of suspected drug 
reaction reports in all EU/EEA languages and search for “COVID-19 
VACCINE ASTRAZENECA (CHADOX1 NCOV-19)”  to see all suspected side 
effects reported for Vaxzevria in the  EU/EEA. Please note that  these 
reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. these events 
may not  necessarily have been caused by, or be otherwise related to, the 
vaccine. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that  markets Vaxzevria will continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trials, which are ongoing. It will also conduct additional 
studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used 
in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list  of planned 
and ongoing safety studies for Vaxzevria, see the risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Vaxzevria is in place. This 
describes how the company will  collect data on the  vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its potential  use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU  Member 
States looking at  real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083  HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to  www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31  (0)88  781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European  Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
