18 June 2021  
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
COMIRNATY 
BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH 
Reports of inflammation of the heart muscle 
(myocarditis) and membrane (pericarditis) in a 
small number of people after vaccination 
continue to be assessed under an accelerated 
timetable. 
There are no updates to the product 
information. 
Comirnaty is effective in preventing COVID-19. 
This safety update follows the last update of 11 May 2021. 
Safety updates provide information about the assessments of emerging 
worldwide safety data since marketing authorisation for COVID-19 
vaccines. Safety assessments are carried out  primarily by EMA’s 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC). The safety 
updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: authorised. 
All published safety updates for Comirnaty are available at Comirnaty: 
safety updates.   
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
Since its  marketing authorisation in  the European Union  (EU) on 21 
December 2020 until  10 June 2021,  more than 196  million doses of 
Comirnaty have been administered in the EU/EEA 1. 
1.  Updates on safety of Comirnaty 
Based on new safety data, including  the latest Monthly Summary Safety 
Report (MSSR) 2 from the marketing authorisation holder and data 
reported by patients and healthcare professionals to EudraVigilance (see 
section 3), PRAC assessed the following at its  meeting held 7 to 10 June 
2021:   
Myocarditis and pericarditis  
PRAC is continuing  its assessment of myocarditis (inflammation of the 
heart muscle) and pericarditis (inflammation of the membrane around the 
heart) reported in a small number of people following  vaccination with 
COVID-19 vaccines. This assessment follows case reports of 
myocarditis/pericarditis after vaccination with  Comirnaty in Israel, as 
presented in the  Comirnaty safety update of May 2021 3. The cases mainly 
concerned males under 30 years of age, with  symptoms mostly starting 
within  several days of vaccination with  the second dose. Most of these 
cases were mild and resolved within  a few days 4. 
In total, 122  cases of myocarditis and 126 cases of pericarditis had been 
reported from the EU/EEA to EudraVigilance with Comirnaty by the  end of 
May 2021,  at which time around 160 million doses of Comirnaty had been 
administered in  the EU/EEA. Cases reported to  EudraVigilance concern 
suspected side effects, i.e. medical events that  have been observed after 
vaccination, but which are not necessarily related to or caused by the 
vaccine. 
Currently, further analysis is needed to conclude whether there is a causal 
relationship between myocarditis/pericarditis and COVID-19 vaccines, 
and PRAC has requested additional data from the  companies marketing 
the vaccines.  
PRAC encourages all healthcare professionals and patients to report any 
cases of myocarditis or pericarditis and other adverse events occurring in 
people after vaccination.  
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)  collects these data 
from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 Monthly Summary Safety Reports, also referred to as pandemic summary safety 
reports, will be compiled by the marketing authorisation holders to support timely and 
continuous benefit-risk evaluations for COVID-19  vaccines used during the pandemic. 
These reports complement the submission of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
3 See safety update for Comirnaty of 11 May 2021  
4 See press release of the Ministry of Health in Israel of 2 June 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
For Comirnaty and COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna, PRAC is conducting  the 
assessment under an accelerated timetable, and finalisation is expected in 
July 2021. 
Myocarditis and pericarditis are inflammatory diseases of the heart that 
can occur following infections or immune diseases. Depending on the data 
source, the incidence estimates for myocarditis and pericarditis in the 
general (unvaccinated) EU/EEA population prior to the COVID-19 
pandemic range from 1 to  10 in 100,000  people per year. Symptoms of 
myocarditis and pericarditis can vary but  often include shortness of 
breath, a forceful heartbeat that may be irregular and chest pain. The 
conditions usually improve on their own or with treatment.  Patients who 
have such symptoms should consult their doctor 5. 
2.  Other information for Comirnaty 
Comirnaty is a vaccine that  was authorised in the  EU on 21 December 
2020  to prevent COVID-19 when infected with  the coronavirus SARS-CoV-
2. The initial  marketing authorisation was for use in people aged 16 years 
and older; on 31 May 2021,  the marketing authorisation was extended to 
use in individuals aged 12 years and older. COVID-19 is a potentially 
severe disease that may result in death. 
Comirnaty contains a molecule called mRNA, which the body uses to 
temporarily produce the  SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The mRNA is broken 
down shortly after vaccination. The spike protein does not  cause COVID-
19.  
Before Comirnaty was granted an EU  marketing authorisation,  the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. More than 18,000  participants have been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
Comirnaty are usually mild or moderate and get better within  a few days 
after vaccination. 
More information on how Comirnaty works and its  use is available in all 
EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes information on 
use in pregnant and breastfeeding women and immunocompromised 
individuals. 
The full product information with  the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages. 
5 See EMA public health communication on myocarditis and pericarditis with COVID-19 
vaccines of 11 June 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
3.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
Comirnaty is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with  the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the  regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission). 
Collecting case reports of suspected side effects 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors reports of suspected 
side effects observed in vaccinated individuals. These case reports are 
collected and recorded in EudraVigilance, a system operated by EMA  for 
managing and analysing information on suspected side effects of 
medicines. 
Vaccinated individuals and healthcare professionals should report 
suspected side effects via the national reporting systems, which  also 
contribute to  EudraVigilance. For more information, see Reporting 
suspected side effects. Information on how to report in your Member State 
is available in the package leaflet and via the list of national competent 
authorities. 
You may visit EudraVigilance – European database of suspected drug 
reaction reports in all EU/EEA languages and search for “COVID-19 mRNA 
Vaccine PFIZER-BIONTECH (Tozinameran)” to see all suspected side 
effects reported for Comirnaty in the EU/EEA. Please note that  these 
reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. these events 
may not  necessarily have been caused by, or be otherwise related to, the 
vaccine. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that  markets Comirnaty will  continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trial, which  is ongoing for up to two  years. It will also 
conduct additional studies to  monitor the safety and effectiveness of the 
vaccine as it is used in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. 
For the list  of planned and ongoing safety studies for Comirnaty, see the 
risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Comirnaty is in place. This 
describes how the company will  collect data on the  vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its potential  use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU  Member 
States looking at  real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083  HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to  www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31  (0)88  781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European  Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
