13 April 2022 
COVID-19 vaccines 
safety update  
Comirnaty (BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH) 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (Janssen-Cilag International NV) 
Nuvaxovid (Novavax CZ, a.s.) 
Spikevax (Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L.) 
Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca AB) 
The safety of authorised COVID-19 vaccines is continuously monitored, and 
updated information is regularly provided to the public.  
Safety updates outline the outcomes from assessments of emerging 
worldwide safety data carried out mainly by EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee (PRAC) (section 1). They also outline how safety is 
monitored and contain high-level information on suspected adverse reaction 
reports, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (section 2).  
This safety update follows the update of 17 March 2022 and reflects the 
main assessment outcomes of the PRAC meetings held 04 to 07 April 2022. 
EMA confirms that the benefits of all currently authorised COVID-19 
vaccines continue to outweigh their side effects, given the risk of COVID-19 
illness and related complications, including hospitalisation and death. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Key messages from the latest safety 
assessments 
No updates to the product information are currently recommended for any 
of the authorised COVID-19 vaccines. 
1.  Latest safety assessments    
Auto-immune hepatitis (AIH)                           
No evidence for a causal relationship with Comirnaty or Spikevax 
An assessment of whether vaccination with Comirnaty or Spikevax can 
cause auto-immune hepatitis (AIH) has been completed. PRAC has 
concluded that the currently available evidence does not support a causal 
association between the vaccines and this condition. 
AIH is a serious chronic inflammatory condition in which the immune 
system attacks and damages the liver. Signs and symptoms of AIH vary 
from person to person and may include yellowing of the skin (jaundice), 
build-up of fluid in the legs (oedema) or belly (ascites) and gastrointestinal 
symptoms. 
Further information can be found in the PRAC highlights of April 2022.  
Corneal graft rejection (CGR)                                                      
Assessment started for Comirnaty, Spikevax and Vaxzevria  
PRAC started an assessment of corneal graft rejection (CGR) to establish 
whether it may be a side effect of COVID-19 vaccines (Comirnaty, Spikevax 
and Vaxzevria). CGR occurs when the body’s immune system mistakenly 
attacks the donor cornea (the transparent layer in front of the eye) that has 
replaced a damaged or diseased one. 
The assessment follows a very small number of cases of CGR reported after 
vaccination with Comirnaty, Spikevax and Vaxzevria in the medical 
literature and EudraVigilance. Reported cases concern suspected side 
effects, i.e. medical events that have been observed after vaccination, but 
which are not necessarily related to or caused by the vaccine. 
Corneal transplantation is a relatively common procedure and although it 
generally has a high success rate, symptoms of rejection may occur in 
about 10% of corneal transplants.  
PRAC will collect and assess all available data, including data from the 
marketing authorisation holders, to determine whether corneal graft 
rejection may be caused by Comirnaty, Spikevax or Vaxzevria. To date, no 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
case reports have been received for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen or 
Nuvaxovid. 
Ongoing assessments of all EMA authorised vaccines have not raised any 
further safety concerns by PRAC. 
Background information on the vaccines 
Comirnaty (BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH) 
The initial marketing authorisation for Comirnaty in the EU was issued on 
21 December 2020. Information on how Comirnaty works is provided in the 
medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages). Full information on the 
vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is 
available in the product information (in all EU/EEA languages).  
About 598 million doses of Comirnaty in adults and 
26.7 million doses of Comirnaty in children and 
adolescents (below 18 years of age) were administered 
in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 03 April 2022.1 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (Janssen-Cilag International NV) 
The initial marketing authorisation for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen in the EU 
was issued on 11 March 2021. Information on how COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen works is provided in the medicine overview (in all EU/EEA 
languages); full information on the vaccine, including all identified side 
effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the product information 
(in all EU/EEA languages)     
About 19.3 million doses of COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen were administered to adults in the EU/EEA from 
authorisation to 03 April 2022.1 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                    
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Nuvaxovid (Novavax CZ, a.s.) 
The initial marketing authorisation for Nuvaxovid in the EU was issued on 
20 December 2021. Information on how Nuvaxovid works is provided in the 
medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the 
vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is 
available in the product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
About 149,000 doses of Nuvaxovid were administered to 
adults in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 03 April 2022.1 
Spikevax (Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L.)    
The initial marketing authorisation for Spikevax in the EU was issued on 06 
January 2021. Information on how Spikevax works is provided in the 
medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages). Full information on the 
vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is 
available in the product information (in all EU/EEA languages).         
About 153 million doses of Spikevax in adults and 1.9 
million doses of Spikevax in children and adolescents 
(below 18 years of age) were administered in the EU/EEA 
from authorisation to 03 April 2022.1 
Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca AB) 
The initial marketing authorisation for Vaxzevria in the EU was issued on 29 
January 2021. Information on how Vaxzevria works is provided in the 
medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the 
vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is 
available in the product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
About 69 million doses of Vaxzevria were administered 
to adults in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 03 April 2022.1 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                              
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
2.  How safety is monitored 
Before COVID-19 vaccines were granted EU marketing authorisation, the 
efficacy and safety of the vaccines were assessed in pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. 
All relevant new information emerging worldwide on the vaccines since 
marketing authorisation is collected and promptly assessed. This is in line 
with the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
EMA’s detailed assessments take into account available data from all 
sources to draw robust conclusions on the safety of the vaccines. These 
data include clinical trial results, reports of suspected side effects, 
epidemiological studies monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological 
investigations and any other relevant information. 
Summary safety reports 
The pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines includes monthly 
summary safety reports (MSSRs) which are compiled by the marketing 
authorisation holders to support timely and continuous benefit-risk 
evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. MSSRs are 
intended to be compiled in the first months of marketing. Afterwards, 
summary safety reports may cover time periods longer than a month or 
may not be necessary anymore. Summary safety reports complement 
periodic safety update reports (PSURs).  
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system.  
Healthcare professionals and vaccinated individuals are encouraged to 
report to their national competent authorities all suspected side effects 
individuals may have experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is 
unclear whether the vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to 
report, including the importance of detailing the vaccine product name and 
the batch, see Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU database 
used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. Publicly available 
information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – European database of 
suspected drug reaction reports (in all EU/EEA languages).  
As of 03 April 2022, EudraVigilance contained the following: 
•  Comirnaty: a total of 699,605 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 7,637 of these reported 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/7 
 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
a fatal outcome2,3 (by the same date about 625 million doses of 
Comirnaty had been given to people in the EU/EEA1). 
•  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen: a total of 45,947 cases of suspected side 
effects spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 308 of these 
reported a fatal outcome2,3 (by the same date, about 19.3 million doses 
of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen had been administered to people in the 
EU/EEA1) 
•  Nuvaxovid: a total of 170 cases of suspected side effects spontaneously 
reported from EU/EEA countries; none of these reported a fatal 
outcome2,3 (by the same date, about 149,000 doses of Nuvaxovid had 
been administered to people in the EU/EEA1) 
•  Spikevax: a total of 193,037 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 994 of these reported a 
fatal outcome2,3 (by the same date, about 155 million doses of Spikevax 
had been given to people in the EU/EEA1) 
•  Vaxzevria: a total of 266,091 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 1,512 of these reported 
a fatal outcome2,3 (by the same date, about 69 million doses of 
Vaxzevria had been given to people in the EU/EEA1). 
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination does 
not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. This may 
have been caused, for example, by health problems not related to 
the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment.  
Planned and ongoing studies 
The companies that market COVID-19 vaccines continue to provide results 
from ongoing clinical trials. They also conduct additional studies to monitor 
2 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland).  
3 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side effect. 
As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case report, 
the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. Similarly, 
this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a fatal 
outcome. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
the safety and effectiveness of the vaccines as they are used in vaccination 
campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned and ongoing 
safety studies with COVID-19 vaccines, see the respective risk management 
plan: Comirnaty, COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, Nuvaxovid, Spikevax, and 
Vaxzevria.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) is in place for each authorised COVID-
19 vaccine: Comirnaty, COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, Nuvaxovid, Spikevax, 
and Vaxzevria. The PIP describes how the company will collect data on the 
vaccine’s efficacy and safety for its potential use in children. Two vaccines, 
Comirnaty and Spikevax, are authorised for use in children. 
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member States 
looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the safety and 
effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant women.  
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
