11 August 2021 
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Janssen-Cilag International NV 
The safety of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is continuously monitored and 
safety updates are regularly provided to the public. This document 
outlines the outcomes from the assessment of emerging worldwide safety 
data carried out by EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee 
(PRAC) (see section 1). It also contains high-level information from the 
reporting of suspected adverse reactions, which PRAC takes into account 
in its assessments (see section 2). 
This safety update follows the update of 14 July 2021. 
Main outcomes from PRAC's latest 
safety assessment 
Guillain-Barré syndrome has been added to the 
product information as a very rare side effect. 
PRAC recommended updating the product 
information to include immune 
thrombocytopenia, dizziness and tinnitus as 
side effects.   
The safety updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: 
authorised. All published safety updates for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
are available at COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen: safety updates. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 11 March 
2021 until 29 July 2021, around 10.3 million doses of COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen have been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
Around 10.3 million 
doses administered in EEA 
1.  Updates on safety assessments for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
PRAC assessed new safety data, including the latest Monthly Summary 
Safety Report (MSSR)2 from the marketing authorisation holder and data 
reported by patients and healthcare professionals to EudraVigilance (see 
section 2), during its meetings on 22 July and 5 August 2021.  
Guillain-Barré syndrome  
Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) was included in the product information as 
a very rare side effect of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, together with a 
warning to raise awareness among healthcare professionals and people 
taking the vaccine. 
GBS is a rare neurological disorder in which the body’s immune system 
damages nerve cells which can result in pain, numbness and muscle 
weakness, progressing to paralysis in the most severe cases. Most people 
eventually fully recover even from the most severe symptoms, while some 
may continue to have some degree of weakness. 
PRAC assessed the available evidence, including cases reported to 
EudraVigilance (see section 2) and information from the scientific 
literature. PRAC assessed 108 cases of GBS reported worldwide as of 30 
June 2021, when over 21 million people had received the vaccine 
globally. There was one reported death among these cases.   
Although cases of GBS after vaccination with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
have been reported very rarely, healthcare professionals should be alert to 
signs and symptoms of GBS, in view of the seriousness of this condition, 
to allow for early diagnosis, supportive care and treatment. 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 Monthly Summary Safety Reports, also referred to as pandemic summary safety 
reports, will be compiled by the marketing authorisation holders to support timely and 
continuous benefit-risk evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. 
These reports complement the submission of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/6 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Vaccinated people are advised to seek immediate medical attention if they 
develop signs and symptoms suggestive of GBS, such as: 
- Weakness in the limbs, chest or face 
- Double vision or difficulty moving eyes 
- Difficulty swallowing, speaking, or chewing 
- Coordination problems and unsteadiness 
- Difficulty walking 
- Difficulty breathing 
- Tingling sensations in the hands and feet 
- Problems with bladder control and bowel function. 
Immune thrombocytopenia  
PRAC recommended updating the product information of COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen to include immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) as a side 
effect, together with a warning to alert healthcare professionals and 
people taking the vaccine. 
ITP is a condition in which the immune system mistakenly attacks and 
destroys blood cells called platelets that are needed for normal blood 
clotting.  
PRAC assessed the available evidence, including scientific literature and 
cases reported to EudraVigilance (see section 2), to the Vaccine Adverse 
Event Reporting System (VAERS) in the United States3 and to the 
marketing authorisation holder's global safety database. The MSSR 
included 120 worldwide cases of suspected ITP by 18 June 2021, of which 
27 cases were reported from clinical trials and 93 were reported 
spontaneously from vaccination campaigns; of these, 4 cases had a fatal 
outcome.  
As of 30 June 2021, over 21 million people had received the vaccine 
globally. 
Other events: dizziness and tinnitus 
PRAC concluded that dizziness and tinnitus (ringing or other noises in one 
or both ears) should be added to the product information as side effects of 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. 
In reaching this conclusion, PRAC took into consideration available 
evidence. This included an analysis of 1,183 worldwide cases of dizziness 
identified from spontaneous reports received through 31 May 2021. 
Regarding tinnitus, 6 cases observed in clinical trials and 108 worldwide  
3 See Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) (hhs.gov) 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/6 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
cases identified by the marketing authorisation holder, reported through 
18 May 2021, during monitoring spontaneous reports were investigated. 
As of 30 June 2021, over 21 million people had received the vaccine 
globally. 
Menstrual disorders 
PRAC discussed reported cases of menstrual disorders occurring after 
vaccination against COVID-19. No causal association between COVID-19 
vaccines and menstrual disorders has been established so far. 
Menstrual disorders are very common in the general population and can 
occur without an underlying medical condition. Causes can range from 
stress and tiredness to conditions such as fibroids and endometriosis. 
Women experiencing unexpected vaginal bleeding (e.g. in 
postmenopausal women) or who are concerned about prolonged or severe 
menstrual disturbances may want to seek medical advice. 
The marketing authorisation holders for all COVID-19 vaccines authorised 
in the EU have been requested to provide further data as part of the 
MSSRs. PRAC will review all available evidence, including reports of 
suspected side effects and scientific literature, and will continue 
monitoring the issue. 
2.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in 
line with the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system. Healthcare professionals and 
vaccinated individuals are encouraged to report to their national 
competent authorities all suspected side effects individuals may have 
experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is unclear whether the 
vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to report, see 
Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU 
database used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. 
Publicly available information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – 
European database of suspected drug reaction reports in all EU/EEA 
languages. Search for “COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN (AD26.COV2.S)” to 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/6 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
see all suspected side effect cases reported for COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen. 
As of 29 July 2021, a total of 15,371 cases of suspected side effects with 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen were spontaneously reported to EudraVigilance 
from EU/EEA countries; 95 of these reported a fatal outcome4,5. By the 
same date, about 10.3 million doses of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen had 
been given to people in the EU/EEA6.  
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination 
does not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. 
This may have been caused, for example, by health problems not 
related to the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment. EMA’s detailed assessments take into 
account all available data from all sources to draw a robust conclusion on 
the safety of the vaccine. These data include clinical trial results, reports 
of suspected side effects in EudraVigilance, epidemiological studies 
monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological investigations and any 
other relevant information. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen will continue to 
provide results from ongoing clinical trials. It will also conduct additional 
studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used 
in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned 
and ongoing safety studies for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, see the risk 
management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is in 
place. This describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s 
efficacy and safety for its potential use in children.  
4 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
5 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side 
effects. As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case 
report, the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. 
Similarly, this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a 
fatal outcome. 
6 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/6 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
3.  Other information for COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is a vaccine that was authorised in the EU on 
11 March 2021 for use in people aged 18 years and older to prevent 
COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a 
potentially severe disease that may result in death. 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen contains an adenovirus that has been modified 
to carry molecules of DNA, which the body uses to temporarily produce 
the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The spike protein does not cause COVID-
19. The adenovirus cannot reproduce and does not cause viral disease. 
Before COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen was granted an EU marketing 
authorisation, the efficacy and safety of the vaccine were assessed 
through pre-clinical studies and large clinical trials. More than 27,000 
participants had been given the vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen are usually mild or moderate and get better 
within a few days after vaccination. 
More information on how COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen works and its use is 
available in all EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes 
information on use in pregnant and breastfeeding women and 
immunocompromised individuals. 
The full product information with the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/6 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
