17 June 2022 
COVID-19 vaccines 
safety update  
Comirnaty (BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH) 
Jcovden (Janssen-Cilag International NV) 
Nuvaxovid (Novavax CZ, a.s.) 
Spikevax (Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L.) 
Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca AB) 
The safety of authorised COVID-19 vaccines is continuously monitored, and 
updated information is regularly provided to the public.  
Safety updates outline the outcomes from assessments of emerging 
worldwide safety data carried out mainly by EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee (PRAC) (section 1). They also outline how safety is 
monitored and contain high-level information on suspected adverse reaction 
reports, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (section 2).  
This safety update follows the update of 12 May 2022 and reflects the main 
assessment outcomes of the PRAC meeting held 07 to 10 June 2022. 
EMA confirms that the benefits of all currently authorised COVID-19 
vaccines continue to outweigh their side effects, given the risk of COVID-19 
illness and related complications, including hospitalisation and death. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Key messages from the latest safety 
assessments 
The product information remains unchanged for 
all EU-authorised COVID-19 vaccines.  
1.  Latest safety assessments 
Comirnaty (BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH) 
Amenorrhoea and heavy menstrual bleeding 
Available evidence does not support a causal relationship of amenorrhoea 
with Comirnaty; the assessment of heavy menstrual bleeding is ongoing  
Having started its assessment of specific menstrual disorders in early 2022 
(see safety update February 2022), PRAC has concluded that the currently 
available evidence does not support a causal relationship between 
Comirnaty and amenorrhoea (absence of menstruation); the assessment of 
heavy menstrual bleeding is ongoing. 
Further information can be found in the PRAC highlights of June 2022. 
About 640 million doses of Comirnaty, including 55 
million doses of Comirnaty in children and adolescents 
(below 18 years of age) were administered in the EU/EEA 
from authorisation to 15 May 2022.1 
The initial marketing authorisation for Comirnaty in the EU was issued on 
21 December 2020. Information on how Comirnaty works is provided in the 
medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages). Full information on the 
vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is 
available in the product information (in all EU/EEA languages).  
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. As of May 2022, exposure figures 
are calculated using a new method. Figures should therefore not be compared with those in 
the safety updates of previous months. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Jcovden (Janssen-Cilag International NV) 
Myocardial infarction   
Available evidence does not support a causal relationship of myocardial 
infarction with Jcovden 
Earlier in 2022 (see safety update March 2022), PRAC started a review of 
this topic following the publication of an epidemiological study based on 
French national databases and posted on the EPI-PHARE website. The study 
suggested a slightly increased risk for myocardial infarction (heart attack) 
with Jcovden within 3 weeks of the first dose.  
PRAC considered that the design of the study had some limitations and 
noted that the observation of a slight increase in myocardial infarction was 
based on a few observed cases.  
The spontaneously reported cases lacked sufficient information for 
assessment and/or reported underlying risk factors for myocardial infarction 
in the concerned patients. Generally, spontaneously reported cases concern 
suspected side effects, i.e. medical events that have been observed after 
vaccination, but which are not necessarily related to or caused by the 
vaccine. 
Furthermore, evidence from other data sources, such as large clinical trials, 
did not indicate an increased risk for myocardial infarction with Jcovden.    
PRAC has therefore concluded that the available evidence does not support 
a causal relationship of myocardial infarction with Jcovden. 
About 19.5 million doses of Jcovden in adults were 
administered in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 15 May 
2022.2 
The initial marketing authorisation for Jcovden (previously COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen) in the EU was issued on 11 March 2021. Information on 
how Jcovden works is provided in the medicine overview (in all EU/EEA 
languages); full information on the vaccine, including all identified side 
effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the product information 
(in all EU/EEA languages). 
2 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. As of May 2022, exposure figures 
are calculated using a new method. Figures should therefore not be compared with those in 
the safety updates of previous months. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Nuvaxovid (Novavax CZ, a.s.) 
Myocarditis and pericarditis 
Assessment started 
PRAC has started an assessment of myocarditis and pericarditis 
(inflammatory conditions of the heart), to establish whether these may be 
side effects of Nuvaxovid.  
This is based on new safety data, including the latest monthly summary 
safety report (MSSR) from the marketing authorisation holder. A small 
number of spontaneous reports of suspected myocarditis and/or pericarditis 
have been received, mainly from Australia. Generally, spontaneously 
reported cases concern suspected side effects, i.e. medical events that have 
been observed after vaccination, but which are not necessarily related to or 
caused by the vaccine. Further information has been requested from the 
marketing authorisation holder, including a detailed analysis by age groups.  
Symptoms of these conditions can vary but often include breathlessness, a 
forceful heartbeat that may be irregular (palpitations), and chest pain. 
About 210,000 doses of Nuvaxovid in adults were 
administered in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 15 May 
2022.3 
The initial marketing authorisation for Nuvaxovid in the EU was issued on 
20 December 2021. Information on how Nuvaxovid works is provided in the 
medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the 
vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is 
available in the product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
Spikevax (Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L.)    
Amenorrhoea and heavy menstrual bleeding 
Available evidence does not support a causal relationship of amenorrhoea 
with Spikevax; the assessment of heavy menstrual bleeding is ongoing 
Having started its assessment of specific menstrual disorders in early 2022 
(see safety update February 2022), PRAC has concluded that the currently 
3 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. As of May 2022, exposure figures 
are calculated using a new method. Figures should therefore not be compared with those in 
the safety updates of previous months. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/9 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
available evidence does not support a causal relationship between Spikevax 
and amenorrhoea (absence of menstruation); the assessment of heavy 
menstrual bleeding is ongoing. 
Further information can be found in the PRAC highlights of June 2022. 
About 152 million doses of Spikevax, including 3.2 
million doses of Spikevax in children and adolescents 
(below 18 years of age) were administered in the EU/EEA 
from authorisation to 15 May 2022.4 
The initial marketing authorisation for Spikevax (previously COVID-19 
Vaccine Moderna) in the EU was issued on 06 January 2021. Information on 
how Spikevax works is provided in the medicine overview (in all EU/EEA 
languages). Full information on the vaccine, including all identified side 
effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the product information 
(in all EU/EEA languages). 
Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca AB) 
Myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism and 
thrombosis 
Available evidence does not support a causal relationships with Vaxzevria 
Earlier in 2022 (see safety update March 2022), PRAC started a review of 
these topics following the publication of an epidemiological study based on 
French national databases and posted on the EPI-PHARE website. The study  
suggested a slightly increased risk of myocardial infarction (heart attack) 
and pulmonary embolism (a blocked blood vessel in the lungs) with 
Vaxzevria. In addition, a slightly increased risk of general venous and/or 
arterial thrombosis (blood clots) had been noted in other published studies.  
PRAC considered that the designs of the studies had some limitations and 
that the results from other studies, including large clinical trials, did not 
indicate increased risks of myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism or 
general thrombosis with Vaxzevria  
PRAC has therefore concluded that the available evidence does not support 
a causal relationship of these events with Vaxzevria.  
4 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. As of May 2022, exposure figures 
are calculated using a new method. Figures should therefore not be compared with those in 
the safety updates of previous months. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/9 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
         
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
No updates to the product information are warranted. The product 
information already includes information on the specific risks of thrombosis 
with thrombocytopenia syndrome (TTS; blood clots combined with low 
platelets) and cerebrovascular venous and sinus thrombosis (blood clot in 
the brain’s venous sinuses). 
About 69 million doses of Vaxzevria in adults were 
administered in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 15 May 
2022.5 
The initial marketing authorisation for Vaxzevria (previously COVID-19 
Vaccine AstraZeneca) in the EU was issued on 29 January 2021. 
Information on how Vaxzevria works is provided in the medicine overview 
(in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the vaccine, including all 
identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the 
product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
2.  How safety is monitored 
Before COVID-19 vaccines were granted EU marketing authorisation, the 
efficacy and safety of the vaccines were assessed in pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. 
All relevant new information emerging worldwide on the vaccines since 
marketing authorisation is collected and promptly assessed. This is in line 
with the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
EMA’s detailed assessments take into account all available data from all 
sources to draw robust conclusions on the safety of the vaccines. These 
data include clinical trial results, reports of suspected side effects, 
epidemiological studies monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological 
investigations and any other relevant information. 
Summary safety reports 
The pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines includes monthly 
summary safety reports (MSSRs) which are compiled by the marketing 
authorisation holders to support timely and continuous benefit-risk 
5 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. As of May 2022, exposure figures 
are calculated using a new method. Figures should therefore not be compared ‘with those 
in the safety updates of previous months. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. MSSRs are 
intended to be compiled in the first months of marketing. Afterwards, 
summary safety reports may cover time periods longer than a month or 
may not be necessary anymore. Summary safety reports complement 
periodic safety update reports (PSURs).  
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system.  
Healthcare professionals and vaccinated individuals are encouraged to 
report to their national competent authorities all suspected side effects 
individuals may have experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is 
unclear whether the vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to 
report, including the importance of detailing the vaccine product name and 
the batch, see Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU database 
used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. Publicly available 
information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – European database of 
suspected drug reaction reports (in all EU/EEA languages).  
As of 29 May 2022, EudraVigilance contained the following: 
•  Comirnaty: a total of 786,983 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 7,935 of these reported 
a fatal outcome6,7 (by 15 May 2022, about 640 million doses of 
Comirnaty had been given to people in the EU/EEA8) 
• 
Jcovden: a total of 50,410 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 319 of these reported a 
fatal outcome6,7 (by 15 May 2022, about 19.5 million doses of COVID-
19 Vaccine Janssen had been administered to people in the EU/EEA8) 
•  Nuvaxovid: a total of 964 cases of suspected side effects spontaneously 
reported from EU/EEA countries; none of these reported a fatal 
6 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland).  
7 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side effect. 
As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case report, 
the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. Similarly, 
this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a fatal 
outcome. 
8 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. As of May 2022, exposure figures 
are calculated using a new method. Figures should therefore not be compared with those in 
the safety updates of previous months. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
outcome9,10 (by 15 May 2022, about 210,000 doses of Nuvaxovid had 
been administered to people in the EU/EEA11) 
•  Spikevax: a total of 219,135 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 1,059 of these reported 
a fatal outcome9,10 (by 15 May 2022, about 152 million doses of 
Spikevax had been given to people in the EU/EEA11) 
•  Vaxzevria: a total of 276,697 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 1,529 of these reported 
a fatal outcome9,10 (by 15 May 2022, about 69 million doses of 
Vaxzevria had been given to people in the EU/EEA11). 
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination does 
not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. This may 
have been caused, for example, by health problems not related to 
the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment.  
Planned and ongoing studies 
The companies that market COVID-19 vaccines continue to provide results 
from ongoing clinical trials. They also conduct additional studies to monitor 
the safety and effectiveness of the vaccines as they are used in vaccination 
campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned and ongoing 
safety studies with COVID-19 vaccines, see the respective risk management 
plan: Comirnaty, Jcovden, Nuvaxovid, Spikevax and Vaxzevria.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) is in place for each authorised COVID-
19 vaccine: Comirnaty, Jcovden, Nuvaxovid, Spikevax and Vaxzevria. The 
PIP describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s efficacy 
9 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
10 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side effect. 
As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case report, 
the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. Similarly, 
this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a fatal 
outcome. 
11 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. As of May 2022, exposure figures 
are calculated using a new method. Figures should therefore not be compared with those in 
the safety updates of previous months. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 8/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
and safety for its potential use in children. Two vaccines, Comirnaty and 
Spikevax, are authorised for use in children. 
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member States 
looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the safety and 
effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant women. 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 9/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
