11 May 2021 
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
VAXZEVRIA 
AstraZeneca AB 
Individuals diagnosed with thrombocytopenia 
within 3 weeks after vaccination with Vaxzevria 
should be actively investigated for signs of 
thrombosis; similarly, individuals who present 
with thrombosis within 3 weeks of vaccination 
should be evaluated for thrombocytopenia.   
Vaxzevria is effective in preventing COVID-19. 
This safety update follows the last update of 14 April 2021. 
Safety updates provide information about the assessments of emerging 
worldwide safety data since marketing authorisation for COVID-19 
vaccines. Safety assessments are carried out primarily by EMA’s 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC). The safety 
updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: authorised.  
All published safety updates for Vaxzevria are available at Vaxzevria: 
safety updates. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
Since its marketing authorisation in the the European Union (EU) on 29 
January 2021 until 6 May 2021, almost 30 million doses of Vaxzevria have 
been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
1.  Updates on safety of Vaxzevria 
At its meeting held 3 to 6 May 2021, based on new safety data including 
the latest Monthly Summary Safety Report (MSSR)2 from the marketing 
authorisation holder, PRAC assessed the following: 
Embolic and thrombotic events with a focus on 
thrombosis with thrombocytopenia 
Further to the PRAC assessment in April 20213 and an assessment by the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the vaccine’s 
benefits and the risk of thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome 
(TTS, formation of blood clots in the vessels with low blood platelets)4, 
PRAC considered the available evidence, including recent data from the 
marketing authorisation holder, for an ongoing procedure to further 
amend the product information regarding:  
- a contraindication to not vaccinate individuals with Vaxzevria who have 
experienced TTS following vaccination with Vaxzevria before; 
- advice that individuals diagnosed with thrombocytopenia within 3 weeks 
of vaccination with Vaxzevria should be actively investigated for signs of 
thrombosis, and similarly individuals who present with thrombosis 
following vaccination should be evaluated for thrombocytopenia; 
- addition of leg pain, seizures (fits) and mental status change as possible 
signs and symptoms of TTS (in addition to the signs and symptoms 
already included in the product information: severe or persistent 
headache, blurred vision, skin bruising beyond the site of vaccination after 
a few days, shortness of breath, chest pain, leg swelling, or persistent 
abdominal pain);  
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these data 
from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 Monthly Summary Safety Reports, also referred to as pandemic summary safety 
reports, will be compiled by the marketing authorisation holders to support timely and 
continuous benefit-risk evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. 
These reports complement the submission of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
3 See Safety Update for Vaxzevria of 14 April 2021 
4 See EMA Public Health Communication of 23 April 2021  
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
- advice that healthcare professionals should consult applicable guidance 
and/or consult specialists (e.g. haematologists, specialists in coagulation) 
to diagnose and treat TTS as this condition requires specialised clinical 
management; and  
- information in the section on side effects to indicate that in clinical trials 
with Vaxzevria, transient mild thrombocytopenia was commonly reported 
(occurring in less than 1 in 10 persons). 
Updates to the risk management plan (RMP) regarding TTS and 
thrombosis are currently under assessment.  
PRAC has requested further data from the marketing authorisation holder 
to keep this safety issue under close monitoring.  
Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) 
PRAC assessed cases of immune thrombocytopenia (ITP, an auto-immune 
condition of low blood platelet levels that can lead to bruising and 
bleeding) reported with Vaxzevria. PRAC has requested further data from 
the marketing authorisation holder to continue its assessment. 
Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) 
PRAC is assessing cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) reported after 
vaccination with Vaxzevria in the context of its regular reviews of the 
MSSRs. GBS is an immune system disorder that causes nerve 
inflammation and can result in pain, numbness, muscle weakness and 
difficulty in walking. PRAC has requested the marketing authorisation 
holder to provide further detailed data, including an analysis of all the 
reported cases, in the context of the next MSSR5. 
2.  Other information for Vaxzevria 
Vaxzevria (previously COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca) is a vaccine that 
was authorised in the EU on 29 January 2021 for use in people aged 18 
years and older to prevent COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus 
SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a potentially severe disease that may result in 
death. 
Vaxzevria contains an adenovirus that has been modified to carry 
molecules of DNA, which the body uses to temporarily produce the SARS-
CoV-2 spike protein. The spike protein does not cause COVID-19. The 
adenovirus cannot reproduce and does not cause viral disease. 
Before Vaxzevria was granted an EU marketing authorisation, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
5 See Meeting Highlights from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
3-6 May 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/5 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
large clinical trials. More than 12,000 participants have been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
Vaxzevria are usually mild or moderate and get better within a few days 
after vaccination. 
More information on how Vaxzevria works and its use is available in the 
medicine overview. This includes information on use in pregnant and 
breastfeeding women and immunocompromised individuals. 
Information in all EU/EEA languages is available in the product 
information, which includes the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
3.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
Vaxzevria is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission). 
Collecting case reports of suspected side effects 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors reports of suspected 
side effects observed in vaccinated individuals. These case reports are 
collected and recorded in EudraVigilance, a system operated by EMA for 
managing and analysing information on suspected side effects of 
medicines. 
Vaccinated individuals and healthcare professionals should report 
suspected side effects via the national reporting systems, which also 
contribute to EudraVigilance. For more information, see Reporting 
suspected side effects. Information on how to report in your Member State 
is available in the package leaflet and via the list of national competent 
authorities. 
You may visit EudraVigilance – European database of suspected drug 
reaction reports and search for “COVID-19 VACCINE ASTRAZENECA 
(CHADOX1 NCOV-19)” to see all suspected side effects reported for 
Vaxzevria in the EU/EEA. Please note that these reports describe 
suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. these events may not necessarily 
have been caused by, or be otherwise related to, the vaccine. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets Vaxzevria will continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trials, which are ongoing. It will also conduct additional 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/5 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used 
in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned 
and ongoing safety studies for Vaxzevria, see the risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Vaxzevria is in place. This 
describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
