8 September 2021  
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
SPIKEVAX 
Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L. 
The safety of Spikevax is continuously monitored and safety updates are 
regularly provided to the public. This document outlines the outcomes 
from the assessment of emerging worldwide safety data carried out by 
EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) (see section 
1). It also contains high-level information from the reporting of suspected 
adverse reactions, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (see 
section 2). 
This safety update follows the update of 11 August 2021. 
Main outcomes from PRAC's latest 
safety assessment 
No new updates to the product information are 
currently recommended. 
The safety updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: 
authorised. All published safety updates for Spikevax (previously known 
as COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna) are available at Spikevax: safety updates. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 6 January 
2021 until 2 September 2021, more than 54.2 million doses of Spikevax 
have been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
 More than 54.2 million 
doses administered in EEA 
1.  Updates on safety assessments for 
Spikevax  
PRAC assessed new safety data, including the latest Monthly Summary 
Safety Report (MSSR)2 from the marketing authorisation holder and data 
reported by patients and healthcare professionals to EudraVigilance (see 
section 2), during its meeting held 30 August to 2 September 2021.  
No new updates to the product information are currently recommended. 
Myocarditis and pericarditis  
Assessment finalised - no further update to the Spikevax product 
information at present 
Myocarditis and pericarditis were added to the product information of 
Spikevax in the side effects and warning sections, following the 
assessment by PRAC in July 20213. 
Myocarditis and pericarditis are inflammatory conditions of the heart.  
In September 2021, PRAC finalised a further assessment, concluding that 
there is no new information on which base to change the product 
information.   
Reminder: To help recovery and avoid complications, people must seek 
immediate medical attention and treatment if they experience 
breathlessness, a forceful heartbeat that may be irregular or (acute and 
persisting) chest pain, as these could be signs of myocarditis and 
pericarditis. 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 Monthly Summary Safety Reports, also referred to as pandemic summary safety 
reports, will be compiled by the marketing authorisation holders to support timely and 
continuous benefit-risk evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. 
These reports complement the submission of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
3 See safety update for Spikevax of 14 July 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
Multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS) 
Assessment ongoing 
PRAC is assessing whether there is a risk of multisystem inflammatory 
syndrome (MIS) with COVID-19 vaccines following a report of MIS with 
Comirnaty, another COVID-19 vaccine, in Denmark. Some cases of MIS 
after administering Comirnaty or other COVID-19 vaccines were reported 
in adults and/or from outside EU/EEA. Reported cases concern suspected 
side effects, i.e. medical events that have been observed after 
vaccination, but which are not necessarily related to or caused by the 
vaccine. 
MIS is a serious inflammatory condition affecting many parts of the body 
and symptoms can include tiredness, persistent severe fever, diarrhoea, 
vomiting, stomach pain, headache, chest pain and difficulty breathing. 
MIS is rare and its incidence rate before the COVID-19 pandemic 
estimated from 5 European countries was around 2 to 6 cases per 
100,000 per year in children and adolescents below 20 years of age and 
less than 2 cases per 100,000 per year in adults aged 20 years or above 
[data from observational studies coordinated by EMA (see section 2)]4. 
MIS has also been reported following COVID-19 disease. The Danish 
patient, however, had no history of COVID-19.  
As of 19 August 2021, no cases were reported as MIS in a child after 
vaccination with Spikevax in the EEA/EU to EudraVigilance (for information 
on EudraVigilance, see section 2).  
PRAC will now assess the available data on MIS to determine whether the 
condition can be caused by COVID-19 vaccines and recommend whether 
any changes to the product information are needed.  
PRAC encourages all healthcare professionals to report any cases of MIS 
and other adverse events in people who have had these vaccines (for 
advice on reporting, see section 2).  
At this stage, there is no change to the current EU recommendations for 
the use of COVID-19 vaccines. 
EMA and national authorities will provide further updates as necessary5. 
4 See European Network of Centres for Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacovigilance 
(ENCePP)  
5 See Meeting Highlights from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
30 August - 2 September 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
Anaphylaxis and other hypersensitivity 
reactions 
No further update to the Spikevax product information at present 
Anaphylaxis is a known side effect of Spikevax and listed in its product 
information, together with information on the clinical management of 
anaphylaxis. PRAC keeps anaphylaxis under close monitoring and in 
September 2021 assessed the latest data. PRAC concluded that no update 
to the product information is currently necessary.  
Delayed injection site reaction 
Assessment ongoing  
Following PRAC’s assessment in May and July 20216, the Spikevax product 
information was updated to include delayed injection site reaction (rash, 
redness or hives) as a side effect of the vaccine with a frequency of 
common (i.e. occurring in less than 1 in 10 persons). PRAC has requested 
the marketing authorisation holder to further specify characteristics of this 
side effect, such as typical time to onset, duration and severity of the 
reactions. The product information will then be updated accordingly. This 
assessment remains ongoing. 
Diarrhoea  
Assessment ongoing 
PRAC continued their assessment of May 2021 regarding diarrhoea7 and 
requested the marketing authorisation holder to add diarrhoea as a side 
effect of the vaccine, together with the frequency category based on the 
latest clinical trial data. This assessment remains ongoing.  
2.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
Spikevax is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission). 
6 See safety update for Spikevax of 14 July 2021 
7 See safety update for Spikevax of 11 May 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system. Healthcare professionals and 
vaccinated individuals are encouraged to report to their national 
competent authorities all suspected side effects individuals may have 
experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is unclear whether the 
vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to report, see 
Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU 
database used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. 
Publicly available information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – 
European database of suspected drug reaction reports in all EU/EEA 
languages. Search for “COVID-19 MRNA VACCINE MODERNA (CX-
024414)” to see all suspected side effect cases reported for Spikevax. 
As of 2 September 2021, a total of 64,885 cases of suspected side effects 
with Spikevax were spontaneously reported to EudraVigilance from 
EU/EEA countries; 447 of these reported a fatal outcome8,9. By the same 
date, more than 54.2 million doses of Spikevax had been given to people 
in the EU/EEA10.  
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination 
does not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. 
This may have been caused, for example, by health problems not 
related to the vaccination. 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment. EMA’s detailed assessments take into 
account all available data from all sources to draw a robust conclusion on 
the safety of the vaccine. These data include clinical trial results, reports 
of suspected side effects in EudraVigilance, epidemiological studies 
8 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
9 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side 
effects. As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case 
report, the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. 
Similarly, this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a 
fatal outcome. 
10 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/7 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological investigations and any 
other relevant information. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets Spikevax will continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trial, which is ongoing for up to two years. It will also 
conduct additional studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the 
vaccine as it is used in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. 
For the list of planned and ongoing safety studies for Spikevax, see the 
risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Spikevax is in place. This 
describes how the company collects data on the vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
3.  Other information for Spikevax 
Spikevax (previously known as COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna) is a vaccine 
that was authorised in the EU on 6 January 2021 to prevent COVID-19 
when infected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a 
potentially severe disease that may result in death. The initial marketing 
authorisation was for use in people aged 18 years and older; on 23 July 
2021, the marketing authorisation was extended to use in individuals aged 
12 years and older.  
Spikevax contains a molecule called mRNA, which the body uses to 
temporarily produce the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The mRNA is broken 
down shortly after vaccination. The spike protein does not cause COVID-
19.  
Before Spikevax was granted an EU marketing authorisation, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. More than 14,000 participants had been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
Spikevax are usually mild or moderate and get better within a few days 
after vaccination. 
More information on how Spikevax works and its use is available in all 
EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes information on 
use in pregnant and breastfeeding women and immunocompromised 
individuals. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/7 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
The full product information with the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages. 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
