12 May 2022 
COVID-19 vaccines 
safety update  
Comirnaty (BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH) 
Jcovden (previously COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen) (Janssen-Cilag International NV) 
Nuvaxovid (Novavax CZ, a.s.) 
Spikevax (Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L.) 
Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca AB) 
The safety of authorised COVID-19 vaccines is continuously monitored and 
updated information is regularly provided to the public.  
Safety updates outline the outcomes from assessments of emerging 
worldwide safety data carried out mainly by EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee (PRAC) (section 1). They also outline how safety is 
monitored and contain high-level information on suspected adverse reaction 
reports, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (section 2).  
This safety update follows the update of 13 April 2022 and reflects the main 
assessment outcomes of the PRAC meeting held 02 to 05 May 2022. 
EMA confirms that the benefits of all currently authorised COVID-19 
vaccines continue to outweigh their side effects, given the risk of COVID-19 
illness and related complications, including hospitalisation and death. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Key messages from the latest safety 
assessments 
No updates to the product information for any of 
the authorised COVID-19 vaccines are currently 
warranted. 
1.  Latest safety assessments 
Comirnaty (BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH) 
There are currently no safety updates for Comirnaty. 
About 600 million doses of Comirnaty in adults and 
about 27 million doses of Comirnaty in children and 
adolescents (below 18 years of age) were administered 
in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 24 April 2022.1 
The initial marketing authorisation for Comirnaty in the EU was issued on 
21 December 2020. Information on how Comirnaty works is provided in the 
medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages). Full information on the 
vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is 
available in the product information (in all EU/EEA languages).  
Jcovden (Janssen-Cilag International NV) 
There are currently no safety updates for Jcovden.  
About 19.4 million doses of Jcovden in adults were 
administered in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 24 April 
2022.1 
The initial marketing authorisation for Jcovden (previously COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen) in the EU was issued on 11 March 2021. Information on 
how Jcovden works is provided in the medicine overview (in all EU/EEA 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
languages); full information on the vaccine, including all identified side 
effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the product information 
(in all EU/EEA languages). 
Nuvaxovid (Novavax CZ, a.s.) 
There are currently no safety updates for Nuvaxovid.  
About 178,000 doses of Nuvaxovid in adults were 
administered in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 24 April 
2022.2 
The initial marketing authorisation for Nuvaxovid in the EU was issued on 
20 December 2021. Information on how Nuvaxovid works is provided in the 
medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the 
vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is 
available in the product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
Spikevax (Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L.)    
There are currently no safety updates for Spikevax. 
About 153 million doses of Spikevax in adults and 
about 1.9 million doses of Spikevax in children and 
adolescents (below 18 years of age) were administered 
in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 24 April 2022.2 
The initial marketing authorisation for Spikevax (previously COVID-19 
Vaccine Moderna) in the EU was issued on 06 January 2021. Information on 
how Spikevax works is provided in the medicine overview (in all EU/EEA 
languages). Full information on the vaccine, including all identified side 
effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the product information 
(in all EU/EEA languages).         
2 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca AB) 
There are currently no safety updates for Vaxzevria. 
About 69 million doses of Vaxzevria in adults were 
administered in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 24 April 
2022.3 
The initial marketing authorisation for Vaxzevria (previously COVID-19 
Vaccine AstraZeneca) in the EU was issued on 29 January 2021. 
Information on how Vaxzevria works is provided in the medicine overview 
(in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the vaccine, including all 
identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the 
product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
2.  How safety is monitored 
Before COVID-19 vaccines were granted EU marketing authorisation, the 
efficacy and safety of the vaccines were assessed in pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. 
All relevant new information emerging worldwide on the vaccines since 
marketing authorisation is collected and promptly assessed. This is in line 
with the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
EMA’s detailed assessments take into account all available data from all 
sources to draw robust conclusions on the safety of the vaccines. These 
data include clinical trial results, reports of suspected side effects, 
epidemiological studies monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological 
investigations and any other relevant information. 
Summary safety reports 
The pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines includes monthly 
summary safety reports (MSSRs) which are compiled by the marketing 
authorisation holders to support timely and continuous benefit-risk 
evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. MSSRs are 
intended to be compiled in the first months of marketing. Afterwards, 
summary safety reports may cover time periods longer than a month or 
3 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
may not be necessary anymore. Summary safety reports complement 
periodic safety update reports (PSURs).  
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system.  
Healthcare professionals and vaccinated individuals are encouraged to 
report to their national competent authorities all suspected side effects 
individuals may have experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is 
unclear whether the vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to 
report, including the importance of detailing the vaccine product name and 
the batch, see Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU database 
used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. Publicly available 
information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – European database of 
suspected drug reaction reports (in all EU/EEA languages).  
As of 28 April 2022, EudraVigilance contained the following: 
•  Comirnaty: a total of 743,735 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 7,765 of these reported 
a fatal outcome4,5 (by 24 April 2022, about 627 million doses of 
Comirnaty had been given to people in the EU/EEA6) 
• 
Jcovden: a total of 48,410 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 311 of these reported a 
fatal outcome4,5, (by 24 April 2022, about 19.4 million doses of COVID-
19 Vaccine Janssen had been administered to people in the EU/EEA6) 
•  Nuvaxovid: a total of 294 cases of suspected side effects spontaneously 
reported from EU/EEA countries; none of these reported a fatal 
outcome4,5 (by 24 April 2022, about 178,000 doses of Nuvaxovid had 
been administered to people in the EU/EEA6) 
•  Spikevax: a total of 206,920 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 1,025 of these reported 
4 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
5 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side effect. 
As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case report, 
the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. Similarly, 
this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a fatal 
outcome. 
6 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
a fatal outcome7,8 (by 24 April 2022, about 155 million doses of 
Spikevax had been given to people in the EU/EEA9) 
•  Vaxzevria: a total of 276,697 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 1,529 of these reported 
a fatal outcome7,8 (by 24 April 2022, about 69 million doses of 
Vaxzevria had been given to people in the EU/EEA9). 
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination does 
not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. This may 
have been caused, for example, by health problems not related to 
the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment.  
Planned and ongoing studies 
The companies that market COVID-19 vaccines continue to provide results 
from ongoing clinical trials. They also conduct additional studies to monitor 
the safety and effectiveness of the vaccines as they are used in vaccination 
campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned and ongoing 
safety studies with COVID-19 vaccines, see the respective risk management 
plan: Comirnaty, Jcovden, Nuvaxovid, Spikevax and Vaxzevria.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) is in place for each authorised COVID-
19 vaccine: Comirnaty, Jcovden, Nuvaxovid, Spikevax and Vaxzevria. The 
PIP describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s efficacy 
and safety for its potential use in children. Two vaccines, Comirnaty and 
Spikevax, are authorised for use in children. 
7 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
8 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side effect. 
As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case report, 
the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. Similarly, 
this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a fatal 
outcome. 
9 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member States 
looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the safety and 
effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant women.  
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
