18 June 2021 
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Janssen-Cilag International NV 
There are no updates to the product 
information. 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is effective in 
preventing COVID-19. 
This safety update follows the last update of 11 May 2021. 
Safety updates provide information about the assessments of emerging 
worldwide safety data since marketing authorisation for COVID-19 
vaccines. Safety assessments are carried out  primarily by EMA’s 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC). The safety 
updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: authorised.  
All published safety updates for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen are available 
at COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen: safety updates. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Since its  marketing authorisation in  the European Union  (EU) on 11 March 
2021  until 10  June 2021, almost 5 million doses of COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen have been administered in the EU/EEA 1. 
1.  Updates on safety of COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen 
Based on new safety data including  the latest Monthly  Summary Safety 
Report (MSSR) 2 from the marketing authorisation holder and data 
reported by patients and healthcare professionals to EudraVigilance (see 
section 3), PRAC assessed the following at its  meeting held 7 to 10 June 
2021:   
Myocarditis and pericarditis  
PRAC is continuing  its assessment of myocarditis (inflammation of the 
heart muscle) and pericarditis (inflammation of the membrane around the 
heart) reported in a small number of people following  vaccination with 
COVID-19 vaccines. This assessment follows case reports of 
myocarditis/pericarditis after vaccination with  Comirnaty, another COVID-
19 vaccine, as presented in the  Comirnaty safety update of May 2021 3.  
For COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, only one case of pericarditis had been 
reported from the EU/EEA to EudraVigilance by the end of May 2021, at 
which time around 2 million doses of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen had been 
administered in  the EU/EEA. Cases reported to  EudraVigilance concern 
suspected side effects, i.e. medical events that  have been observed after 
vaccination, but which are not necessarily related to or caused by the 
vaccine.   
Currently, further analysis is needed to conclude whether there is a causal 
relationship between myocarditis/pericarditis and COVID-19 vaccines, 
and PRAC has requested additional data from the  companies marketing 
the vaccines.  
PRAC encourages all healthcare professionals and patients to report any 
cases of myocarditis or pericarditis and other adverse events occurring in 
people after vaccination.  
Myocarditis and pericarditis are inflammatory diseases of the heart that 
can occur following infections or immune diseases. Depending on the data 
source, the incidence estimates for myocarditis and pericarditis in the 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC)  collects these data 
from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 Monthly Summary Safety Reports, also referred to as pandemic summary safety 
reports, will be compiled by the marketing authorisation holders to support timely and 
continuous benefit-risk evaluations for COVID-19  vaccines used during the pandemic. 
These reports complement the submission of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
3 See safety update for Comirnaty of 11 May 2021  
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
general (unvaccinated) EU/EEA population prior to the COVID-19 
pandemic range from 1 to  10 in 100,000  people per year. Symptoms of 
myocarditis and pericarditis can vary but  often include shortness of 
breath, a forceful heartbeat that may be irregular and chest pain. The 
conditions usually improve on their own or with treatment.  Patients who 
have such symptoms should consult their doctor 4. 
Embolic and thrombotic events with a focus on 
thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome 
(TTS) 
In April and May 2021,  the product information of COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen was updated with  regard to the  very rare risk of thrombosis 
(formation of blood clots in the  blood vessels) with  thrombocytopenia (low 
blood platelets) syndrome (TTS) 5. In June 2021,  PRAC considered the 
current data consistent with  the aspects known so far for TTS.  
TTS requires rapid identification  and urgent clinical management. On 7 
June 2021,  EMA issued a communication to raise awareness of clinical 
care recommendations to manage suspected TTS. The recommendations 
from the  International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis (ISTH) 6 
and learned societies in  EU Member States were specifically highlighted 7.   
PRAC will  continue to closely monitor TTS. 
2.  Other information for COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is a vaccine that  was authorised in  the EU on 
11 March 2021  for use in people aged 18 years and older to prevent 
COVID-19 when infected with  the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a 
potentially severe disease that may result in  death. 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen contains an adenovirus that has been modified 
to carry molecules of DNA, which the body uses to temporarily produce 
the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The spike protein does not  cause COVID-
19. The adenovirus cannot reproduce and does not cause viral disease. 
Before COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen was granted an EU marketing 
authorisation, the efficacy and safety of the vaccine were assessed 
through pre-clinical studies and large clinical trials. More than 27,000 
participants have been given the  vaccine in clinical trials.  
4 See EMA public health communication on myocarditis and pericarditis with COVID-19 
vaccines of 11 June 2021 
5 See safety update for COVID-19  Vaccine Janssen of 11 May 2021 
6 See International Society of Thrombosis and Haemostasis  
7 See EMA public health communication on clinical care recommendations to manage 
suspected thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome of 7 June 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/5 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen are usually mild or moderate and get better 
within  a few days after vaccination. 
More information on how COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen works and its use is 
available in all EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes 
information on use in  pregnant and breastfeeding women and 
immunocompromised individuals. 
The full product information with  the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages. 
3.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in 
line with  the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU  Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
Collecting case reports of suspected side effects 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors reports of suspected 
side effects observed in vaccinated individuals. These case reports are 
collected and recorded in EudraVigilance, a system operated by EMA  for 
managing and analysing information on suspected side effects of 
medicines. 
Vaccinated individuals and healthcare professionals should report 
suspected side effects via the national reporting systems, which  also 
contribute to  EudraVigilance. For more information, see Reporting 
suspected side effects. Information on how to report in your Member State 
is available in the package leaflet and via the list of national competent 
authorities. 
You may visit EudraVigilance – European database of suspected drug 
reaction reports in all EU/EEA languages and search for “COVID-19 
VACCINE JANSSEN (AD26.COV2.S)” to see all suspected side effects 
reported for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen in  the EU/EEA. Please note that 
these reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. these 
events may not necessarily have been caused by, or be otherwise related 
to, the  vaccine. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that  markets COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen will  continue to 
provide results from ongoing clinical trials. It will also conduct  additional 
studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used 
in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list  of planned 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/5 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
and ongoing safety studies for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, see the risk 
management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is in 
place. This describes how the  company will collect data on the vaccine’s 
efficacy and safety for its  potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU  Member 
States looking at  real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083  HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to  www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31  (0)88  781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European  Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
