11 May 2021  
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
COMIRNATY 
BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH 
Swelling of the face in people who have had a 
dermal filler injection will be added to the 
product information of Comirnaty as a side 
effect.  
Case reports of inflammation of the heart 
muscle and membrane will be further assessed. 
Comirnaty is effective in preventing COVID-19. 
This safety update follows the last update of 14 April 2021. 
Safety updates provide information about the assessments of emerging 
worldwide safety data since marketing authorisation for COVID-19 
vaccines. Safety assessments are carried out primarily by EMA’s 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC). The safety 
updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: authorised. 
All published safety updates for Comirnaty are available at Comirnaty: 
safety updates. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
Since the marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 21 
December 2020 until 6 May 2021, almost 110 million doses of Comirnaty 
have been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
1.  Updates on safety of Comirnaty 
At its meeting held 3 to 6 May 2021, based on new safety data including 
the latest Monthly Summary Safety Report (MSSR)2 from the marketing 
authorisation holder, PRAC assessed the following:  
Localised swelling of the face in persons with 
history of dermal filler injections 
PRAC assessed cases of localised swelling reported with Comirnaty in 
people with a history of injections with dermal fillers (gel-like substances 
injected under the skin), together with information from the scientific 
literature and further available evidence.  
Given the reported location of the swellings, time to onset (median: 2 
days) and an overall biological plausibility of a causal relationship with the 
vaccine, PRAC concluded that the product information for Comirnaty 
should be updated. It will include swelling of the face as a side effect that 
may occur in vaccine recipients who have had an injection of dermal 
fillers3. 
Myocarditis and pericarditis 
EMA is aware of cases of myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle) 
and pericarditis (inflammation of the membrane around the heart) 
reported following vaccination with Comirnaty. There is no indication at 
the moment that these cases are due to the vaccine. However, PRAC has 
requested the marketing authorisation holder to provide further detailed 
data, including an analysis of the cases according to age and gender, in 
the context of the next MSSR and will consider if other regulatory action is 
needed4.  
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these data 
from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 Monthly Summary Safety Reports, also referred to as pandemic summary safety 
reports, will be compiled by the marketing authorisation holders to support timely and 
continuous benefit-risk evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. 
These reports complement the submission of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
3 See Meeting Highlights from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
3-6 May 2021 
4 See Meeting Highlights from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
3-6 May 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/4 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
2.  Other information for Comirnaty 
Comirnaty is a vaccine that was authorised in the EU on 21 December 
2020 for use in people aged 16 years and older to prevent COVID-19 
when infected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a 
potentially severe disease that may result in death. 
Comirnaty contains a molecule called mRNA, which the body uses to 
temporarily produce the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The mRNA is broken 
down shortly after vaccination. The spike protein does not cause COVID-
19.  
Before Comirnaty was granted an EU marketing authorisation, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. More than 18,000 participants have been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
Comirnaty are usually mild or moderate and get better within a few days 
after vaccination. 
More information on how Comirnaty works and its use is available in the 
medicine overview. This includes information on use in pregnant and 
breastfeeding women and immunocompromised individuals. 
Information in all EU/EEA languages is available in the product 
information, which includes the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
3.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
Comirnaty is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission). 
Collecting case reports of suspected side effects 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors reports of suspected 
side effects observed in vaccinated individuals. These case reports are 
collected and recorded in EudraVigilance, a system operated by EMA for 
managing and analysing information on suspected side effects of 
medicines. 
Vaccinated individuals and healthcare professionals should report 
suspected side effects via the national reporting systems, which also 
contribute to EudraVigilance. For more information, see Reporting 
suspected side effects. Information on how to report in your Member State 
is available in the package leaflet and via the list of national competent 
authorities. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/4 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
You may visit EudraVigilance – European database of suspected drug 
reaction reports and search for “COVID-19 mRNA Vaccine PFIZER-
BIONTECH (Tozinameran)” to see all suspected side effects reported for 
Comirnaty in the EU/EEA. Please note that these reports describe 
suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. these events may not necessarily 
have been caused by, or be otherwise related to, the vaccine. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets Comirnaty will continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trial, which is ongoing for up to two years. It will also 
conduct additional studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the 
vaccine as it is used in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. 
For the list of planned and ongoing safety studies for Comirnaty, see the 
risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Comirnaty is in place. This 
describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women.  
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/4 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
