11 May 2021  
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
COVID-19 VACCINE MODERNA 
Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L. 
Diarrhoea and delayed injection site reactions 
will be added as side effects to the product 
information. 
Case reports of inflammation of the heart 
muscle and membrane will be further assessed. 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna is effective in 
preventing COVID-19. 
This safety update follows the last update of 29 March 2021. 
Safety updates provide information about the assessments of emerging 
worldwide safety data since marketing authorisation for COVID-19 
vaccines. Safety assessments are carried out primarily by EMA’s 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC). The safety 
updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: authorised.  
All published safety updates for COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna are available 
at COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna: safety updates. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE MODERNA 
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 6 January 
2021 until 6 May 2021, more than 11.5 million doses of COVID-19 Vaccine 
Moderna have been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
1.  Updates on safety of COVID-19 
Vaccine Moderna  
At its meeting held 3 to 6 May 2021, based on new safety data including 
the latest Monthly Summary Safety Report (MSSR)2 from the marketing 
authorisation holder, PRAC assessed the following:  
Diarrhoea 
PRAC identified diarrhoea after vaccination as a new side effect of COVID-
19 Vaccine Moderna, based on cases reported in clinical trials and from 
vaccination campaigns. The frequency of this side effect is being assessed 
further. The product information will be updated accordingly. 
Delayed injection site reactions 
Based on cases reported in clinical trials and from vaccination campaigns, 
PRAC concluded that information on delayed injection site reactions should 
be added to the product information of COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna3. The 
characteristics of these side effects, including the frequency, are being 
assessed further for inclusion in the product information. 
Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) 
PRAC assessed cases of immune thrombocytopenia (ITP, an auto-immune 
condition of low blood platelet levels that can lead to bruising and 
bleeding) reported with COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna. PRAC has requested 
further data from the marketing authorisation holder to continue the 
assessment. 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these data 
from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 Monthly Summary Safety Reports, also known as pandemic summary safety reports, 
will be compiled by the marketing authorisation holders to support timely and continuous 
benefit-risk evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. These reports 
complement the submission of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
3 See also Blumenthal KG, Freeman EE, Saff RR, et al. Delayed large local reactions to 
mRNA-1273 vaccine against SARS-CoV-2. N Engl J Med. 2021; 384: 1273-1277. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE MODERNA 
Myocarditis and pericarditis 
EMA is aware of cases of myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle) 
and pericarditis (inflammation of the membrane around the heart) 
reported following vaccination with COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna. There is 
no indication at the moment that these cases are due to the vaccine. 
However, PRAC has requested the marketing authorisation holder to 
provide further detailed data, including an analysis of the cases according 
to age and gender, in the context of the next MSSR and will consider if 
other regulatory action is needed4.  
2.  Other information for COVID-19 
Vaccine Moderna 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna was authorised in the EU on 6 January 2021 
for use in people aged 18 years and older to prevent COVID-19 when 
infected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a potentially 
severe disease that may result in death. 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna contains a molecule called mRNA, which the 
body uses to temporarily produce the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The 
mRNA is broken down shortly after vaccination. The spike protein does not 
cause COVID-19.  
Before COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna was granted an EU marketing 
authorisation, the efficacy and safety of the vaccine were assessed 
through pre-clinical studies and large clinical trials. More than 14,000 
participants have been given the vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna are usually mild or moderate and get better 
within a few days after vaccination. 
More information on how COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna works and its use is 
available in the medicine overview. This includes information on use in 
pregnant and breastfeeding women and immunocompromised individuals. 
Information in all EU/EEA languages is available in the product 
information, which includes the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
3.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in 
4 See Meeting Highlights from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
3-6 May 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/5 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE MODERNA 
line with the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
Collecting case reports of suspected side effects 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors reports of suspected 
side effects observed in vaccinated individuals. These case reports are 
collected and recorded in EudraVigilance, a system operated by EMA for 
managing and analysing information on suspected side effects of 
medicines. 
Vaccinated individuals and healthcare professionals should report 
suspected side effects via the national reporting systems, which also 
contribute to EudraVigilance. For more information, see Reporting side 
effects. Information on how to report side effects in your Member State is 
available in the package leaflet and the list of national competent 
authorities. 
You may visit EudraVigilance – European database of suspected drug 
reaction reports and search for “COVID-19 MRNA VACCINE MODERNA 
(CX-024414)” to see all suspected side effects reported for COVID-19 
Vaccine Moderna in the EU/EEA. Please note that these reports describe 
suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. these events may not necessarily 
have been caused by, or be otherwise related to, the vaccine. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna will continue to 
provide results from the main clinical trial, which is ongoing for up to two 
years. It will also conduct additional studies to monitor the safety and 
effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used in vaccination campaigns and 
other clinical practice. For the list of planned and ongoing safety studies 
for COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna, see the risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna is in 
place. This describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s 
efficacy and safety for its potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE MODERNA 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
