11 November 2021 
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
VAXZEVRIA 
AstraZeneca AB 
The safety of Vaxzevria is continuously monitored and safety updates are 
regularly provided to the public. This document outlines the outcomes 
from the assessment of emerging worldwide safety data carried out by 
EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) (see section 
1). It also contains high-level information from the reporting of suspected 
adverse reactions, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (see 
section 2). 
This safety update follows the update of 6 October 2021. 
Main outcomes from PRAC's latest 
safety assessment 
Cerebrovascular venous and sinus thrombosis 
(CVST; blood clots in the brain) without 
thrombocytopenia (low blood platelet levels) 
has been observed very rarely following 
vaccination with Vaxzevria.  
CVST will be added to the product information 
as a side effect of Vaxzevria. 
The safety updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: 
authorised. All published safety updates for Vaxzevria are available at 
Vaxzevria: safety updates.  
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 29 
January 2021 until 29 October 2021, almost 68.8 million doses of 
Vaxzevria have been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
Almost 68.8 million 
doses administered in EEA 
1.  Updates on safety assessments for 
Vaxzevria 
During its meetings held 25 to 28 October 2021 and 04 November 2021, 
PRAC assessed new safety data for Vaxzevria (see section 2 ‘How safety is 
monitored’). 
Cerebrovascular venous and sinus thrombosis 
(CVST) 
PRAC finalised its assessment of cases reporting CVST (blood clots in the 
brain) without thrombocytopenia (low blood platelets) after vaccination 
with Vaxzevria. Thrombosis (formation of blood clots in blood vessels) 
with thrombocytopenia syndrome (TTS) is already a known very rare side 
effect of Vaxzevria2.  
CVST is a rare type of stroke which occurs when a blood clot forms in the 
brain’s venous sinuses, preventing blood from draining out of the brain. As 
a result, blood vessels may break and leak blood into the brain tissues, 
forming a haemorrhage. 
PRAC assessed all available data and recommended updating the product 
information to include CVST as a side effect of Vaxzevria.  
Cumulatively, up to 30 September 2021, 458 cases of CVST without 
thrombocytopenia have been reported globally following vaccination with 
Vaxzevria (293 medically confirmed) and 33 of these cases occurred after 
the second dose. The assigned frequency category will be ‘unknown 
frequency’, because it is generally difficult to robustly estimate side effect 
frequencies from cases of suspected side effects that have been reported 
spontaneously by healthcare professionals or patients. Spontaneously 
reported cases concern suspected side effects, i.e. medical events that 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 See Vaxzevria, COVID-19 Vaccine (ChAdOx1-S [recombinant]) (europa.eu) 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
have been observed after vaccination, but which are not necessarily 
related to or caused by the vaccine. 
In addition, the following warning statements for healthcare professionals 
and vaccinated individuals are recommended for inclusion in the product 
information: 
Healthcare professionals should be aware that: 
•  Events of cerebrovascular venous and sinus thrombosis (CVST) 
without thrombocytopenia have been observed very rarely following 
vaccination with Vaxzevria. Some cases had a fatal outcome; 
• 
• 
• 
The majority of these cases occurred within the first four weeks of 
vaccination; 
This information should be considered for individuals at increased risk 
for CVST; 
These events may require different treatment approaches than 
thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome (TTS) and healthcare 
professionals should consult applicable guidances. 
Vaccinated individuals should be aware that: 
• 
• 
blood clots in the brain, not associated with low levels of platelets, 
have been observed very rarely following vaccination with Vaxzevria;  
The majority of these cases occurred within the first four weeks of 
vaccination. Some cases had a fatal outcome. 
Multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS)  
PRAC has concluded that there is currently insufficient evidence of a 
possible link between Vaxzevria and very rare cases of multisystem 
inflammatory syndrome (MIS).  
MIS is a rare serious inflammatory condition affecting many parts of the 
body, and symptoms can include tiredness, persistent severe fever, 
diarrhoea, vomiting, stomach pain, headache, chest pain and difficulty 
breathing. MIS has previously been reported following COVID-19 disease. 
The committee’s assessment is based on available spontaneously reported 
adverse events and currently does not warrant an update of the product 
information. Only a small number of case reports were identified as 
meeting the case definition of MIS. However, these cases lacked sufficient 
information, preventing an adequate assessment of causality. 
2.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
Vaxzevria is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission).  
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
Summary safety reports 
The pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines includes Monthly 
Summary Safety Reports (MSSRs) which are compiled by the marketing 
authorisation holders to support timely and continuous benefit-risk 
evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. MSSRs are 
intended to be compiled for at least the first six months of marketing 
(afterwards, pandemic summary safety reports may cover time periods 
longer than a month). These reports complement the submission 
of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system. Healthcare professionals and 
vaccinated individuals are encouraged to report to their national 
competent authorities all suspected side effects individuals may have 
experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is unclear whether the 
vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to report, including 
the importance of detailing the vaccine product name and the batch, see 
Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU 
database used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. 
Publicly available information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – 
European database of suspected drug reaction reports in all EU/EEA 
languages. Search for “COVID-19 VACCINE ASTRAZENECA 
(CHADOX1 NCOV-19)” to see all suspected side effect cases reported for 
Vaxzevria. 
As of 28 October 2021, a total of 214,528 cases of suspected side effects 
with Vaxzevria were spontaneously reported to EudraVigilance from 
EU/EEA countries; 1,259 of these reported a fatal outcome3,4. By the same 
date, almost 68.8 million doses of Vaxzevria had been given to people in 
the EU/EEA5.  
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination 
3 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
4 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side 
effects. As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case 
report, the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. 
Similarly, this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a 
fatal outcome. 
5 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/7 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
does not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. 
This may have been caused, for example, by health problems not 
related to the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment. EMA’s detailed assessments take into 
account all available data from all sources to draw a robust conclusion on 
the safety of the vaccine. These data include clinical trial results, reports 
of suspected side effects in EudraVigilance, epidemiological studies 
monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological investigations and any 
other relevant information. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets Vaxzevria will continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trials, which are ongoing. It will also conduct additional 
studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used 
in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned 
and ongoing safety studies for Vaxzevria, see the risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Vaxzevria is in place. This 
describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
3.  Other information for Vaxzevria 
Vaxzevria (previously COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca) is a vaccine that 
was authorised in the EU on 29 January 2021 for use in people aged 18 
years and older to prevent COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus 
SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a potentially severe disease that may result in 
death. 
Vaxzevria contains an adenovirus that has been modified to carry 
molecules of DNA, which the body uses to temporarily produce the SARS-
CoV-2 spike protein. The spike protein does not cause COVID-19. The 
adenovirus cannot reproduce and does not cause viral disease. 
Before Vaxzevria was granted an EU marketing authorisation, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. More than 12,000 participants had been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/7 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
Vaxzevria are usually mild or moderate and get better within a few days 
after vaccination. 
More information on how Vaxzevria works and its use is available in all 
EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes information on 
use in pregnant and breastfeeding women and immunocompromised 
individuals. 
The full product information with the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
