28 January 2021
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update
COMIRNATY
BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH
The latest safety data for this vaccine are in line 
with the known side effect profile, and the related 
reviews are presented in this update.
Reports of suspected severe allergic reaction have 
not identified new aspects regarding the nature of 
this known side effect. 
No specific safety concern has been identified for 
vaccine use in frail elderly individuals.  
The benefits of Comirnaty in preventing COVID-19 
continue to outweigh any risks, and there are 
no recommended changes regarding the use the 
vaccine. 
Safety updates provide the outcomes of the assessment of emerging data since 
marketing authorisation for COVID-19 vaccines. The assessments are carried 
out by EMA’s safety committee (Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee 
(PRAC)). The safety updates are published regularly at Post-authorisation: 
Safety updates. 
All published safety updates for Comirnaty are available at Comirnaty: safety 
updates.
Content:
1.  Updates on safety of Comirnaty
2.  Other information for Comirnaty
3.  How safety is monitored
1.
Updates on safety of Comirnaty
On 28 January 2021, PRAC concluded that the safety data reviewed for 
Comirnaty are in line with the vaccine’s known benefit-risk profile. The review 
covered all new safety data emerging since 21 December 2020, including the 
first Summary Monthly Safety Report1 from the marketing authorisation holder. 
Specifically, the following was concluded by PRAC in relation to: 
Severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis)
Anaphylaxis is a known side effect of Comirnaty. The assessment of the reports 
of suspected anaphylaxis to date did not identify new aspects regarding the 
nature of this side effect. PRAC noted that a recent analysis in the United States 
estimated the frequency of anaphylaxis as approximately 11 cases per million 
doses of Comirnaty administered2. A frequency estimate appropriate for the EU 
product information could not yet be determined.
PRAC requested the marketing authorisation holder to continue reviewing all 
anaphylaxis cases for further assessment by the committee. 
Information on managing the risk of anaphylaxis is already available in the 
product information.
Review of reports of suspected side effects with 
fatal outcome, specifically in frail elderly individuals
Given concerns which arose from Norway about deaths reported in frail elderly 
individuals after vaccination with Comirnaty, PRAC reviewed the current reports 
of suspected side effects with fatal outcome in individuals of any age. This 
review did not suggest a safety concern. 
In many cases concerning individuals above 65 years of age, progression of 
(multiple) pre-existing diseases seemed to be a plausible explanation for death. 
In some individuals, palliative care had already been initiated before vaccination.
Before Comirnaty was granted a marketing authorisation in the EU, the safety of 
the vaccine was carefully assessed through large clinical trials across age groups 
including study participants that were 75 years of age and older, as detailed in 
the public assessment report. 
PRAC concluded that based on the current data there was no need to amend 
the product information regarding how Comirnaty should be used, including in 
frail elderly individuals. PRAC requested that the marketing authorisation holder 
continues reviewing all reports of suspected side effects with fatal outcome 
thoroughly. 
1. Summary Monthly Safety Reports will be compiled by the marketing authorisation holders for 
COVID-19 vaccines to support timely and continuous benefit-risk evaluations. The submission of 
such reports complements the submission of periodic safety update reports (PSURs).
2. Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) COVID-19 Response Team, Food and Drug 
Administration: Allergic Reactions Including Anaphylaxis After Receipt of the First Dose of Pfizer-
BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine: United States, December 14–23, 2020. MMWR. 2021; 70 (2): 
46-52 (epub 6 Jan 2021).
2
2.
Other information for Comirnaty
Comirnaty is a vaccine that has been authorised in the European Union (EU) for 
use in people aged 16 years and older to protect against developing COVID-19 
when infected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a potentially 
severe disease that may result in death.
Comirnaty contains a molecule called mRNA, which the body uses to temporarily 
produce the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The mRNA is broken down shortly after 
vaccination. The spike protein does not cause COVID-19. 
Before Comirnaty was granted a marketing authorisation in the EU, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine was assessed through pre-clinical studies and large 
clinical trials. More than 18,000 participants have been given the vaccine in 
clinical trials. 
The most common side effects known for Comirnaty will not be experienced by 
everybody, are usually mild or moderate, and get better within a few days after 
vaccination.
More information on how Comirnaty works and its use is available in the 
medicine overview for Comirnaty. This includes information on use in pregnant 
and breastfeeding women and immunocompromised individuals.
Information in all EU/EEA languages is available in the product information, 
which includes the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet.
3.
How safety is monitored
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, all relevant new information emerging on 
Comirnaty is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory network.
Collecting suspected side effects 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors reports of suspected side 
effects observed in vaccinated individuals. These reports are collected and 
recorded in EudraVigilance, a system operated by EMA for managing and 
analysing information on suspected adverse reactions to medicines.
Vaccinated individuals and healthcare professionals should report suspected side 
effects via the national reporting systems. For more information, see Reporting 
side effects. Information on how to report side effects in your Member State is 
available in the package leaflet and the list of national competent authorities.
You may visit EudraVigilance – European database of suspected drug 
reaction reports and search for “COVID-19 mRNA Vaccine PFIZER-BIONTECH 
(Tozinameran)” to see all suspected side effects reported for Comirnaty in the 
EU. Please note that these reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, 
i.e. these events may not necessarily have been caused or otherwise be related 
to the vaccine.
3
Planned and ongoing studies
The company that markets Comirnaty will continue to provide results from the 
main clinical trial, which is ongoing for up to two years, and conduct additional 
studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used in 
the vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned or 
ongoing safety studies for Comirnaty, see the risk management plan. 
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Comirnaty is in place. This describes how 
the company will collect data on the vaccine’s efficacy and safety for its potential 
use in children. 
In addition, EMA and European authorities are coordinating observational studies 
in EU Member States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor 
the safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. For more details on the ongoing projects, see Treatments and vaccines 
for COVID-19: post-authorisation. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction 
is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
An agency of the European Union
