8 September 2021 
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Janssen-Cilag International NV 
The safety of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is continuously monitored and 
safety updates are regularly provided to the public. This document 
outlines the outcomes from the assessment of emerging worldwide safety 
data carried out by EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee 
(PRAC) (see section 1). It also contains high-level information from the 
reporting of suspected adverse reactions, which PRAC takes into account 
in its assessments (see section 2). 
This safety update follows the update of 11 August 2021. 
Main outcomes from PRAC's latest 
safety assessment 
PRAC finalised updates to the product 
information to include swollen lymph nodes, 
unusual or decreased feeling in the skin, 
tinnitus, diarrhoea and vomiting as side effects.   
The safety updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: 
authorised. All published safety updates for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
are available at COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen: safety updates. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 11 March 
2021 until 2 September 2021, more than 13.8 million doses of COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen have been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
More than 13.8 million 
doses administered in EEA 
1.  Updates on safety assessments for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
PRAC assessed new safety data, including the latest Monthly Summary 
Safety Report (MSSR)2 from the marketing authorisation holder and data 
reported by patients and healthcare professionals to EudraVigilance (see 
section 2), during its meeting held 30 August to 2 September 2021.  
Multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS) 
Assessment ongoing 
PRAC is assessing whether there is a risk of multisystem inflammatory 
syndrome (MIS) with COVID-19 vaccines following a report of MIS with 
Comirnaty, another COVID-19 vaccine, in Denmark. Some cases of MIS 
after administering Comirnaty or other COVID-19 vaccines were reported 
in adults and/or from outside EU/EEA. Reported cases concern suspected 
side effects, i.e. medical events that have been observed after 
vaccination, but which are not necessarily related to or caused by the 
vaccine. 
MIS is a serious inflammatory condition affecting many parts of the body 
and symptoms can include tiredness, persistent severe fever, diarrhoea, 
vomiting, stomach pain, headache, chest pain and difficulty breathing. 
MIS is rare and its incidence rate before the COVID-19 pandemic 
estimated from 5 European countries was around 2 to 6 cases per 
100,000 per year in children and adolescents below 20 years of age and 
less than 2 cases per 100,000 per year in adults aged 20 years or above. 
[data from observational studies coordinated by EMA (see section 2)]3. 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 Monthly Summary Safety Reports, also referred to as pandemic summary safety 
reports, will be compiled by the marketing authorisation holders to support timely and 
continuous benefit-risk evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. 
These reports complement the submission of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
3 See European Network of Centres for Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacovigilance 
(ENCePP)  
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
MIS has also been reported following COVID-19 disease. The Danish 
patient, however, had no history of COVID-19.  
As of 19 August 2021, no cases were reported as MIS in a child after 
vaccination with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen in the EEA/EU to 
EudraVigilance (for information on EudraVigilance, see section 2).  
PRAC will now assess the available data on MIS to determine whether the 
condition can be caused by COVID-19 vaccines and recommend whether 
any changes to the product information are needed.  
PRAC encourages all healthcare professionals to report any cases of MIS 
and other adverse events in people who have had these vaccines (for 
advice on reporting, see section 2).  
At this stage, there is no change to the current EU recommendations for 
the use of COVID-19 vaccines. 
EMA and national authorities will provide further updates as necessary4. 
Venous thromboembolism (VTE) 
Assessment ongoing 
As part of the ongoing close safety monitoring, PRAC is reviewing data on 
cases of venous thromboembolism (VTE, blood clots in the veins) with 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen.  
This safety issue is distinct from the very rare side effect of thrombosis 
with thrombocytopenia syndrome (TTS) (i.e. blood clots with low blood 
platelets)5.  
VTE was included in the risk management plan for COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen as a safety issue to be investigated, based on a higher proportion 
of cases of VTE observed within the vaccinated group versus the placebo 
group in the first clinical studies used to authorise this vaccine.  
PRAC will assess additional data from two large clinical trials of the 
vaccine, in order to further assess whether VTE may be causally related to 
the vaccine6.  
Other events: Lymphadenopathy, paraesthesia, 
hypoesthesia, tinnitus, diarrhoea and vomiting 
Update to the COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen product information 
PRAC finalised its assessment for updating the product information, 
concluding the following:  
4 See Meeting Highlights from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
30 August - 2 September 2021 
5 See safety update for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen of 11 May 2021 
6 See Meeting Highlights from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
30 August - 2 September 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/7 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
- Lymphadenopathy (swollen lymph nodes) should be added as a side 
effect of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen; the frequency has been estimated as 
rare (i.e. occurring in less than 1 in 1,000 vaccinated persons). 
- Paraesthesia (unusual feeling in the skin, such as tingling or a crawling 
feeling) and hypoesthesia (decreased feeling or sensitivity, especially in 
the skin) should be added as side effects of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen; 
the frequency of paraesthesia has been estimated as uncommon (i.e. 
occurring in less than 1 in 100 vaccinated persons) and of hypoesthesia as 
rare (i.e. occurring in less than 1 in 1,000 vaccinated persons).   
- Tinnitus7 (persistent ringing in the ear) should be added as a side effect 
of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen; the frequency has been estimated as rare 
(i.e. occurring in less than 1 in 1,000 vaccinated persons). Further data 
and analyses have been requested from the marketing authorisation 
holder to possibly further characterise the nature of tinnitus cases with a 
focus on course and duration of symptoms. 
- Diarrhoea and vomiting after vaccination should be added as side effects 
of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen; the frequency of diarrhoea has been 
estimated as uncommon (i.e. occurring in less than 1 in 100 vaccinated 
persons) and of vomiting as rare (i.e. occurring in less than 1 in 1,000 
vaccinated persons).    
2.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in 
line with the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system. Healthcare professionals and 
vaccinated individuals are encouraged to report to their national 
competent authorities all suspected side effects individuals may have 
experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is unclear whether the 
vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to report, see 
Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU 
database used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. 
Publicly available information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – 
European database of suspected drug reaction reports in all EU/EEA 
7 See safety update for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen of 11 August 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
languages. Search for “COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN (AD26.COV2.S)” to 
see all suspected side effect cases reported for COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen. 
As of 2 September 2021, a total of 20,206 cases of suspected side effects 
with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen were spontaneously reported to 
EudraVigilance from EU/EEA countries; 138 of these reported a fatal 
outcome8,9. By the same date, more than 13.8 million doses of COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen had been given to people in the EU/EEA10.  
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination 
does not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. 
This may have been caused, for example, by health problems not 
related to the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment. EMA’s detailed assessments take into 
account all available data from all sources to draw a robust conclusion on 
the safety of the vaccine. These data include clinical trial results, reports 
of suspected side effects in EudraVigilance, epidemiological studies 
monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological investigations and any 
other relevant information. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen will continue to 
provide results from ongoing clinical trials. It will also conduct additional 
studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used 
in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned 
and ongoing safety studies for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, see the risk 
management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is in 
place. This describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s 
efficacy and safety for its potential use in children.  
8 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
9 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side 
effects. As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case 
report, the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. 
Similarly, this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a 
fatal outcome. 
10 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/7 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
3.  Other information for COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is a vaccine that was authorised in the EU on 
11 March 2021 for use in people aged 18 years and older to prevent 
COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a 
potentially severe disease that may result in death. 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen contains an adenovirus that has been modified 
to carry molecules of DNA, which the body uses to temporarily produce 
the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The spike protein does not cause COVID-
19. The adenovirus cannot reproduce and does not cause viral disease. 
Before COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen was granted an EU marketing 
authorisation, the efficacy and safety of the vaccine were assessed 
through pre-clinical studies and large clinical trials. More than 27,000 
participants had been given the vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen are usually mild or moderate and get better 
within a few days after vaccination. 
More information on how COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen works and its use is 
available in all EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes 
information on use in pregnant and breastfeeding women and 
immunocompromised individuals. 
The full product information with the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
