11 November 2021  
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
SPIKEVAX 
Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L. 
The safety of Spikevax is continuously monitored and safety updates are 
regularly provided to the public. This document outlines the outcomes 
from the assessment of emerging worldwide safety data carried out by 
EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) (see section 
1). It also contains high-level information from the reporting of suspected 
adverse reactions, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (see 
section 2). 
This safety update follows the update of 6 October 2021. 
Main outcomes from PRAC's latest 
safety assessment 
There are no updates to the product 
information.  
Further assessment of myocarditis and 
pericarditis is ongoing. 
There is currently insufficient evidence of a 
possible link between Spikevax and very rare 
cases of multisystem inflammatory syndrome 
(MIS). 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
The safety updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: 
authorised. All published safety updates for Spikevax (previously known 
as COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna) are available at Spikevax: safety updates. 
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 6 January 
2021 until 29 October 2021, more than 61.6 million doses of Spikevax 
have been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
 More than 61.6 million 
doses administered in EEA 
1.  Updates on safety assessments for 
Spikevax  
During its meeting held 27 to 30 September 2021, PRAC assessed new 
safety data for Spikevax (see section 2 ‘How safety is monitored’). 
Myocarditis and pericarditis  
PRAC is assessing further data on the risk of myocarditis and pericarditis 
following vaccination with Spikevax.  
Myocarditis and pericarditis are inflammatory conditions of the heart. 
Symptoms can vary but often include breathlessness, a forceful heartbeat 
that may be irregular (palpitations), and chest pain. 
PRAC had previously reviewed cases of myocarditis and pericarditis 
spontaneously reported in the European Economic Area (EEA). The review 
concluded in July 2021 with a recommendation to list both conditions as 
side effects in the product information for Spikevax, together with a 
warning to raise awareness among healthcare professionals and people 
receiving this vaccine. 
The committee has now asked the company that markets Spikevax to 
perform an in-depth review of all published data on the association of 
myocarditis and pericarditis with the vaccine, including clinical trial data, 
data from the literature and other data available in the public domain. 
EMA will continue to monitor the vaccine’s safety and effectiveness and 
will communicate further when new information becomes available. 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
Multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS)  
PRAC has concluded that there is currently insufficient evidence of a 
possible link between Spikevax and very rare cases of multisystem 
inflammatory syndrome (MIS).  
MIS is a rare, serious inflammatory condition affecting many parts of the 
body, and symptoms can include tiredness, persistent severe fever, 
diarrhoea, vomiting, stomach pain, headache, chest pain and difficulty 
breathing. MIS has previously been reported following COVID-19 disease. 
The committee’s assessment is based on available spontaneously reported 
adverse events and currently does not warrant an update of the product 
information. Information to aid the diagnosis of MIS, such as laboratory 
markers of inflammation, measures of disease activity, and the duration of 
fever, and information excluding diagnosis of other infections was missing 
in the majority of cases. A small number of cases did meet the diagnostic 
criteria for MIS. However, these cases were missing information about 
prior or current SARS-CoV-2 infection, which is important to assess 
causality with the vaccine.  
Capillary leak syndrome  
PRAC has started a review of a safety signal to assess reports of capillary 
leak syndrome in people who were vaccinated with Spikevax. 
Six cases of this very rare disorder, characterised by leakage of fluid from 
blood vessels causing tissue swelling and a fall in blood pressure, were 
reported in the EudraVigilance database. At this stage, it is not yet clear 
whether there is a causal association between vaccination and the reports 
of capillary leak syndrome. These reports point to a safety signal - 
information on new, or changes in, adverse events that may potentially be 
associated with a medicine or vaccine and that warrant further 
investigation. The review will also assess the risk in the population with a 
medical history of the condition in question. 
PRAC will evaluate all the available data to decide if a causal relationship 
is considered likely or not. EMA will further communicate on the outcome 
of PRAC’s review. 
2.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
Spikevax is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission). 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/7 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
Summary safety reports 
The pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines includes Monthly 
Summary Safety Reports (MSSRs) which are compiled by the marketing 
authorisation holders to support timely and continuous benefit-risk 
evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. MSSRs are 
intended to be compiled for at least the first six months of marketing 
(afterwards, pandemic summary safety reports may cover time periods 
longer than a month). These reports complement the submission of 
Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system. Healthcare professionals and 
vaccinated individuals are encouraged to report to their national 
competent authorities all suspected side effects individuals may have 
experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is unclear whether the 
vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to report, including 
the importance of detailing the vaccine product name and the batch, see 
Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU 
database used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. 
Publicly available information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – 
European database of suspected drug reaction reports in all EU/EEA 
languages. Search for “COVID-19 MRNA VACCINE MODERNA (CX-
024414)” to see all suspected side effect cases reported for Spikevax. 
As of 28 October 2021, a total of 94,636 cases of suspected side effects 
with Spikevax were spontaneously reported to EudraVigilance from 
EU/EEA countries; 549 of these reported a fatal outcome2,3. By the same 
date, more than 61.6 million doses of Spikevax had been given to people 
in the EU/EEA4.  
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination 
2 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
3 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side 
effects. As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case 
report, the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. 
Similarly, this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a 
fatal outcome. 
4 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/7 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
does not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. 
This may have been caused, for example, by health problems not 
related to the vaccination. 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment. EMA’s detailed assessments take into 
account all available data from all sources to draw a robust conclusion on 
the safety of the vaccine. These data include clinical trial results, reports 
of suspected side effects in EudraVigilance, epidemiological studies 
monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological investigations and any 
other relevant information. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets Spikevax will continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trial, which is ongoing for up to two years. It will also 
conduct additional studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the 
vaccine as it is used in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. 
For the list of planned and ongoing safety studies for Spikevax, see the 
risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Spikevax is in place. This 
describes how the company collects data on the vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
3.  Other information for Spikevax 
Spikevax (previously known as COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna) is a vaccine 
that was authorised in the EU on 6 January 2021 to prevent COVID-19 
when infected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a 
potentially severe disease that may result in death. The initial marketing 
authorisation was for use in people aged 18 years and older; on 23 July 
2021, the marketing authorisation was extended to use in individuals aged 
12 years and older.  
Spikevax contains a molecule called mRNA, which the body uses to 
temporarily produce the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The mRNA is broken 
down shortly after vaccination. The spike protein does not cause COVID-
19.  
Before Spikevax was granted an EU marketing authorisation, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/7 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
large clinical trials. More than 14,000 participants had been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
Spikevax are usually mild or moderate and get better within a few days 
after vaccination. 
More information on how Spikevax works and its use is available in all 
EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes information on 
use in pregnant and breastfeeding women and immunocompromised 
individuals. 
The full product information with the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
