09 December 2021  
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
COMIRNATY 
BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH 
The safety of Comirnaty is continuously monitored and safety updates are 
regularly provided to the public. This document outlines the outcomes 
from the assessment of emerging worldwide safety data carried out by 
EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) (see section 
1). It also contains high-level information from the reporting of suspected 
adverse reactions, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (see 
section 2). 
This safety update follows the update of 11 November 2021. 
Main outcome from PRAC's latest 
safety assessment 
The overall frequency of the side effects 
myocarditis and pericarditis has been 
determined to be very rare.  
The risk has been confirmed to be highest in 
younger males; estimates of the risk will be 
included in the product information for 
Comirnaty. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
The safety updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: 
authorised. All published safety updates for Comirnaty are available at 
Comirnaty: safety updates.   
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) 
on 21 December 2020 until 01 December 2021, almost 479 
million doses of Comirnaty have been administered in the 
EU/EEA1. 
Almost 479 million 
doses administered in EEA 
1.  Updates on safety assessments for 
Comirnaty 
During its meeting held 29 November to 02 December 2021, PRAC 
assessed new safety data for Comirnaty (see section 2 ‘How safety is 
monitored’). 
Myocarditis and pericarditis                                      
Update to the Comirnaty product information 
Myocarditis and pericarditis are inflammatory conditions of the heart. 
Symptoms can vary but often include breathlessness, a forceful heartbeat 
that may be irregular (palpitations) and chest pain. 
EMA’s safety committee (PRAC) has assessed recent data on the known 
risk of myocarditis and pericarditis following vaccination with mRNA 
vaccines, including Comirnaty. This review included two large European 
epidemiological studies. One study was conducted using data from the 
French national health system (Epi-phare) and the other one was based 
on Nordic registry data. 
Overall, the outcome of the review confirms the risk of myocarditis and 
pericarditis, which is already reflected in the product information for 
Comirnaty, and provides further details on these two conditions. 
Based on the reviewed data, PRAC has determined that the overall risk for 
both conditions is overall ‘very rare’, meaning that up to 1 in 10,000 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/6 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
vaccinated people may be affected. Additionally, the data show that the 
increased risk of myocarditis after vaccination is highest in younger males. 
PRAC has recommended updating the product information accordingly. 
Myocarditis and pericarditis can develop within just a few days after 
vaccination and occur primarily  within 14 days. They have more often 
been observed after the second vaccination. Available data suggest that 
the course of myocarditis and pericarditis following vaccination is similar 
to the typical course of these conditions, usually improving with rest or 
treatment. Viral infections, including infection with the virus that causes 
COVID-19, are a common cause of myocarditis.2 
For Comirnaty, the French study shows that in a period of 7 days after the 
second dose there were about 0.26 extra cases of myocarditis in 12- to 
29-year-old males per 10,000 compared with unexposed persons. In the 
Nordic study, in a period of 28 days after the second dose there were 0.57 
extra cases of myocarditis in 16- to 24-year-old males per 10,000 
compared with unexposed persons.  
EMA confirms that the benefits of Comirnaty continue to outweigh its 
risks, given the risk of COVID-19 illness and related complications, 
including hospitalisation and death. 
Information for people receiving the vaccine: 
Following vaccination, you should be alert to signs of myocarditis and 
pericarditis, such as breathlessness, palpitations and chest pain, and seek 
immediate medical attention should these occur. 
Autoimmune hepatitis                                             
Signal assessment started 
PRAC started an assessment of the autoimmune hepatitis (a rare condition 
in which the immune system attacks and damages the liver) to establish 
whether it may be a side effect of Comirnaty. 
The assessment follows a very small number of cases reported after  
vaccination with Comirnaty in the medical literature and EudraVigilance. 
Further data and analyses have been requested from the marketing 
authorisation holder to support the ongoing assessment by PRAC. 
With early diagnosis, autoimmune hepatitis generally responds well to 
treatment with medicines to suppress the immune system. Signs and 
symptoms of autoimmune hepatitis vary from person to person and may 
include yellowing of the skin (jaundice), build-up of fluid in the legs 
(oedema) or belly (ascites) and gastrointestinal symptoms.  
PRAC encourages all healthcare professionals and patients to report any  
2 Association Between COVID-19 and Myocarditis Using Hospital-Based Administrative 
Data — United States, March 2020–January 2021 | MMWR (cdc.gov) 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/6 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
cases of autoimmune hepatitis and other adverse events in people after 
vaccination. 
2.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
Comirnaty is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission). 
Summary safety reports 
The pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines includes Monthly 
Summary Safety Reports (MSSRs) which are compiled by the marketing 
authorisation holders to support timely and continuous benefit-risk 
evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. MSSRs are 
intended to be compiled for at least the first six months of marketing 
(afterwards, pandemic summary safety reports may cover time periods 
longer than a month). These reports complement the submission of 
Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system. Healthcare professionals and 
vaccinated individuals are encouraged to report to their national 
competent authorities all suspected side effects individuals may have 
experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is unclear whether the 
vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to report, including 
the importance of detailing the vaccine product name and the batch, see 
Reporting suspected side effects. 
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU 
database used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. 
Publicly available information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – 
European database of suspected drug reaction reports in all EU/EEA 
languages. Search for “COVID-19 mRNA Vaccine PFIZER-BIONTECH 
(Tozinameran)” to see all suspected side effect cases reported for 
Comirnaty. 
As of 01 December 2021, a total of 471,824 cases of suspected side 
effects with Comirnaty were spontaneously reported to EudraVigilance 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/6 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
from EU/EEA countries; 5,962 of these reported a fatal outcome3,4. By the 
same date almost 479 million doses of Comirnaty had been given to 
people in the EU/EEA 5.  
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination 
does not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. 
This may have been caused, for example, by health problems not 
related to the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment. EMA’s detailed assessments take into 
account all available data from all sources to draw a robust conclusion on 
the safety of the vaccine. These data include clinical trial results, reports 
of suspected side effects in EudraVigilance, epidemiological studies 
monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological investigations and any 
other relevant information. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets Comirnaty will continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trial, which is ongoing for up to two years. It will also 
conduct additional studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the 
vaccine as it is used in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. 
For the list of planned and ongoing safety studies for Comirnaty, see the 
risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Comirnaty is in place. This 
describes how the company collects data on the vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
3 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
4 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side 
effect. As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case 
report, the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. 
Similarly, this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a 
fatal outcome. 
5 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/6 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
3.  Other information for Comirnaty 
Comirnaty is a vaccine that was authorised in the EU on 21 December 
2020 to prevent COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-
2. COVID-19 is a potentially severe disease that may result in death. The 
initial marketing authorisation was for use in people aged 16 years and 
older. On 31 May 2021, the marketing authorisation was extended to use 
in individuals aged 12 years and older; on 26 November 2021, it was 
extended to individuals aged 5 to 11 years old.  
Comirnaty contains a molecule called mRNA, which the body uses to 
temporarily produce the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The mRNA is broken 
down shortly after vaccination. The spike protein does not cause COVID-
19.  
Before Comirnaty was granted an EU marketing authorisation, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. More than 18,000 participants had been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
Comirnaty are usually mild or moderate and get better within a few days 
after vaccination. 
More information on how Comirnaty works and its use is available in all 
EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes information on 
use in pregnant and breastfeeding women and immunocompromised 
individuals. 
The full product information with the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages. 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/6 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
