6 October 2021 
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
VAXZEVRIA 
AstraZeneca AB 
The safety of Vaxzevria is continuously monitored and safety updates are 
regularly provided to the public. This document outlines the outcomes 
from the assessment of emerging worldwide safety data carried out by 
EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) (see section 
1). It also contains high-level information from the reporting of suspected 
adverse reactions, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (see 
section 2). 
This safety update follows the update of 8 September 2021. 
Main outcomes from PRAC's latest 
safety assessment 
Immune thrombocytopenia (an autoimmune 
condition with low blood platelet levels) will be 
added to the product information as a side 
effect of Vaxzevria, together with a warning 
and advice about thrombocytopenic disorders. 
The safety updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: 
authorised. All published safety updates for Vaxzevria are available at 
Vaxzevria: safety updates.  
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 29 
January 2021 until 30 September 2021, more than 68.7 million doses of 
Vaxzevria have been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
More than 68.7 million 
doses administered in EEA 
1.  Updates on safety assessments for 
Vaxzevria 
During its meeting held 27 to 30 September 2021, PRAC assessed new 
safety data (see section 2 ‘How safety is monitored’). 
Thrombocytopenia including immune 
thrombocytopenia (ITP) 
Update to the Vaxzevria product information  
PRAC finalised its assessment of cases reporting thrombocytopenia, 
including immune thrombocytopenia (ITP), after vaccination with 
Vaxzevria, taking into consideration discussions in the scientific literature2. 
Thrombocytopenia (low blood platelet levels) is a known common side 
effect of Vaxzevria3.  
ITP is a specific type of thrombocytopenia in which the immune system 
mistakenly targets blood cells called platelets that are needed for normal 
blood clotting (very low levels of blood platelets can be associated with 
bleeding and serious health problems). 
PRAC assessed all available data and recommended updating the product 
information to include ITP as a side effect of Vaxzevria. The frequency 
category will be ‘unknown frequency’, because it is generally difficult to 
robustly estimate side effect frequencies from cases of suspected side 
effects that have been reported spontaneously by healthcare professionals 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 Simpson CR et al. First-dose ChAdOx1 and BNT162b2 COVID-19 vaccines and 
thrombocytopenic, thromboembolic and hemorrhagic events in Scotland. Nat Med. 27: 
1290–1297;9 June 2021 (epub).; Pottegård A et al. Arterial events, venous 
thromboembolism, thrombocytopenia, and bleeding after vaccination with Oxford-
AstraZeneca ChAdOx1-S in Denmark and Norway: population based cohort study. Br Med 
J. 373: n1114; 5 May 2021 (epub).; Trogstad L et al. Association between ChAdOx1 
nCoV-19 vaccination and bleeding episodes: large population-based cohort study. 
Research Square; 2021 (preprint).  
3 See safety update for Vaxzevria of 14 April 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/6 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
or patients. Spontaneously reported cases concern suspected side effects, 
i.e. medical events that have been observed after vaccination, but which 
are not necessarily related to or caused by the vaccine. 
PRAC also agreed on a direct healthcare professional communication 
(DHPC) to raise awareness among healthcare professionals. Following 
agreement of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
(CHMP) on the product information update and the DHPC, the DHPC will 
be disseminated to healthcare professionals by the marketing 
authorisation holder according to an agreed communication plan. The 
DHPC will be available on a dedicated page on the EMA website and in 
the national DHPC registers of EU Member States4.   
Healthcare professionals should be aware that: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
cases of thrombocytopenia, including ITP, have been reported with 
Vaxzevria, typically within the first four weeks after vaccination; 
very rarely, these cases of thrombocytopenia presented with very low 
platelet levels (<20,000 per μL) and/or were associated with bleeding; 
some of these cases occurred in individuals with a history of ITP; 
cases with fatal outcome have been reported; 
if an individual has a history of a thrombocytopenic disorder, such as 
ITP, the risk of developing low platelet levels should be considered 
before administering the vaccine and platelet monitoring is 
recommended after vaccination. 
Vaccinated individuals should: 
• 
seek immediate medical attention if they experience unexplained 
bleeding or skin bruising or pinpoint round spots beyond the site of 
vaccination, appearing a few days after vaccination. 
2.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
Vaxzevria is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission).  
Summary safety reports 
The pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines includes Monthly 
Summary Safety Reports (MSSRs) which are compiled by the marketing 
authorisation holders to support timely and continuous benefit-risk 
evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. MSSRs are 
intended to be compiled for at least the first six months of marketing 
(afterwards, pandemic summary safety reports may cover time periods 
4 See Meeting Highlights from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
27 - 30 September 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/6 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
longer than a month). These reports complement the submission 
of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system. Healthcare professionals and 
vaccinated individuals are encouraged to report to their national 
competent authorities all suspected side effects individuals may have 
experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is unclear whether the 
vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to report, including 
the importance of detailing the vaccine product name and the batch, see 
Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU 
database used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. 
Publicly available information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – 
European database of suspected drug reaction reports in all EU/EEA 
languages. Search for “COVID-19 VACCINE ASTRAZENECA 
(CHADOX1 NCOV-19)” to see all suspected side effect cases reported for 
Vaxzevria. 
As of 30 September 2021, a total of 199,999 cases of suspected side 
effects with Vaxzevria were spontaneously reported to EudraVigilance 
from EU/EEA countries; 1,211 of these reported a fatal outcome5,6. By the 
same date, more than 68.7 million doses of Vaxzevria had been given to 
people in the EU/EEA7.  
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination 
does not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. 
This may have been caused, for example, by health problems not 
related to the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment. EMA’s detailed assessments take into 
5 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
6 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side 
effects. As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case 
report, the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. 
Similarly, this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a 
fatal outcome. 
7 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/6 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
account all available data from all sources to draw a robust conclusion on 
the safety of the vaccine. These data include clinical trial results, reports 
of suspected side effects in EudraVigilance, epidemiological studies 
monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological investigations and any 
other relevant information. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets Vaxzevria will continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trials, which are ongoing. It will also conduct additional 
studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used 
in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned 
and ongoing safety studies for Vaxzevria, see the risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Vaxzevria is in place. This 
describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
3.  Other information for Vaxzevria 
Vaxzevria (previously COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca) is a vaccine that 
was authorised in the EU on 29 January 2021 for use in people aged 18 
years and older to prevent COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus 
SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a potentially severe disease that may result in 
death. 
Vaxzevria contains an adenovirus that has been modified to carry 
molecules of DNA, which the body uses to temporarily produce the SARS-
CoV-2 spike protein. The spike protein does not cause COVID-19. The 
adenovirus cannot reproduce and does not cause viral disease. 
Before Vaxzevria was granted an EU marketing authorisation, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. More than 12,000 participants had been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
Vaxzevria are usually mild or moderate and get better within a few days 
after vaccination. 
More information on how Vaxzevria works and its use is available in all 
EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes information on 
use in pregnant and breastfeeding women and immunocompromised 
individuals. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/6 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
The full product information with the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages. 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/6 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
