3 August 2022 Rev.21 
COVID-19 vaccines 
safety update  
Comirnaty (BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH) 
COVID-19 Vaccine Valneva (Valneva Austria GmbH) 
Jcovden (Janssen-Cilag International NV) 
Nuvaxovid (Novavax CZ, a.s.) 
Spikevax (Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L.) 
Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca AB) 
Update as of 1 December 2023 
COVID-19 Vaccine Valneva was withdrawn from the EU market at the request of 
the company for commercial reasons. The withdrawal does not affect the 
information provided in this safety update. 
Update as of 3 August 2022 
Possible link to myocarditis and pericarditis with Nuvaxovid 
The PRAC has concluded that myocarditis and pericarditis can occur following 
vaccination with Nuvaxovid. This conclusion is based on a small number of 
reported cases. 
The Committee is therefore recommending listing myocarditis and pericarditis as 
new side effects in the product information for Nuvaxovid, together with a warning 
to raise awareness among healthcare professionals and people receiving this 
vaccine. The Committee has also requested that the marketing authorisation 
holder provides additional data on the risk of these side effects occurring. 
Myocarditis and pericarditis are inflammatory conditions of the heart. Symptoms 
can vary but often include breathlessness, a forceful heartbeat that may be 
irregular (palpitations), and chest pain.  
1 This document was first published on 14 July 2022; it was updated on 3 August 2022 to 
add information about myocarditis and pericarditis with Nuvaxovid and on 1 December 
2023 to include a statement on the withdrawal of COVID-19 Vaccine Valneva. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
The safety of authorised COVID-19 vaccines is continuously monitored, and 
updated information is regularly provided to the public.  
Safety updates outline the outcomes from assessments of emerging 
worldwide safety data carried out mainly by EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee (PRAC) (section 1). They also outline how safety is 
monitored and contain high-level information on suspected adverse reaction 
reports, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (section 2).  
This safety update follows the update of 17 June 2022 and reflects the main 
assessment outcomes of the PRAC meeting held 04 to 07 July 2022. 
EMA confirms that the benefits of all currently authorised COVID-19 
vaccines continue to outweigh their side effects, given the risk of COVID-19 
illness and related complications, including hospitalisation and death. 
Key messages from the latest safety 
assessments 
The product information of Nuvaxovid will be updated 
with severe allergic reaction and unusual or decreased 
feeling in the skin as new side effects. 
The product information of Spikevax will be updated with 
extensive swelling of the vaccinated limb as a new side 
effect. 
The product information of Vaxzevria will be updated 
with tinnitus and unusual or decreased feeling in the skin 
as new side effects. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/11 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
1.  Latest safety assessments 
Comirnaty (BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH) 
There are no safety updates for Comirnaty. 
About 649 million doses of Comirnaty, including about 
55 million doses in children and adolescents (below 
18 years of age) were administered in the EU/EEA from 
authorisation to 26 June 2022.2 
The initial marketing authorisation for Comirnaty in the EU was issued on 
21 December 2020. Information on how Comirnaty works is provided in the 
medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages). Full information on the 
vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is 
available in the product information (in all EU/EEA languages).  
COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, adjuvanted) 
Valneva (Valneva Austria GmbH) 
There are no safety updates for COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, 
adjuvanted) Valneva. 
By 26 June 2022, COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, adjuvanted) Valneva had 
not yet been used in the EU/EEA2.  
The initial marketing authorisation for COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, 
adjuvanted) Valneva in the EU was issued on 24 June 2022. Information on 
how COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, adjuvanted) Valneva works is provided 
in the medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the 
vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is 
available in the product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
Jcovden (Janssen-Cilag International NV) 
There are no safety updates for Jcovden. 
2 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. As of May 2022, exposure figures 
are calculated using a new method. Figures should therefore not be compared with those in 
the safety updates of previous months. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/11 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
About 19.4 million doses of Jcovden in adults were 
administered in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 26 June 
2022.3 
The initial marketing authorisation for Jcovden (previously COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen) in the EU was issued on 11 March 2021. Information on 
how Jcovden works is provided in the medicine overview (in all EU/EEA 
languages); full information on the vaccine, including all identified side 
effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the product information 
(in all EU/EEA languages). 
Nuvaxovid (Novavax CZ, a.s.) 
Anaphylaxis 
Update to the product information  
Following PRAC’s assessment, anaphylaxis (severe allergic reaction) will be 
included in the EU product information as a side effect of Nuvaxovid, 
together with an update of the existing advice for managing risk of 
anaphylaxis (see box below). The frequency category will be ‘not known’, as 
it is generally difficult to robustly estimate side effect frequencies from 
spontaneously reported cases of suspected side effects.  
A few cases of anaphylaxis have been reported spontaneously with use of 
Nuvaxovid. Generally, cases reported spontaneously by a patient or 
healthcare professional concern suspected side effects, i.e. medical events 
that have been observed after vaccination, but which are not necessarily 
related to or caused by the vaccine. 
Appropriate medical treatment and supervision should 
always be readily available in case of an anaphylactic 
reaction following the administration of the vaccine.  
Close observation for at least 15 minutes is recommended 
following vaccination.  
A second dose of the vaccine should not be given to those 
who have experienced anaphylaxis to the first dose of 
Nuvaxovid. 
3 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. As of May 2022, exposure figures 
are calculated using a new method. Figures should therefore not be compared with those in 
the safety updates of previous months. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/11 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Paraesthesia and hypoaesthesia 
Update to the product information 
Following PRAC’s assessment, paraesthesia (unusual feeling in the skin, 
such as tingling or a crawling sensation) and hypoaesthesia (decreased 
feeling or sensitivity, especially in the skin) will be included in the EU 
product information as side effects of Nuvaxovid. The frequency category 
will be ‘not known’, as it is generally difficult to robustly estimate side effect 
frequencies from spontaneously reported cases of suspected side effects.  
Cases of paraesthesia and hypoaesthesia have been reported spontaneously 
with use of Nuvaxovid (189 paraesthesia and 67 hypoaesthesia cases 
reported worldwide from more than 1.5 million vaccine doses distributed 
worldwide by 31 May 2022). Generally, cases reported spontaneously by a 
patient or healthcare professional concern suspected side effects, i.e. 
medical events that have been observed after vaccination, but which are 
not necessarily related to or caused by the vaccine. 
Myocarditis and pericarditis4 
Assessment ongoing 
In June 2022, PRAC started an assessment of myocarditis and pericarditis 
(inflammatory conditions of the heart) to establish whether these may be 
side effects of Nuvaxovid (see safety update of June 2022).  
In July 2022, PRAC assessed these cases and noted that the Australian 
Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) recently added pericarditis 
(inflammation of lining around the heart) to the product information as a 
side effect of unknown frequency (see TGA COVID-19 vaccine safety report 
30-06-2022).   
PRAC considered that only a small number of myocarditis and/or pericarditis 
cases have been reported spontaneously with use of Nuvaxovid in the EU (5 
EU/EEA cases reported by 31 May 2022 from about 210,000 vaccine doses 
administered in the EU/EEA by 15 May 20223). Generally, cases reported 
spontaneously by a patient or healthcare professional concern suspected 
side effects, i.e. medical events that have been observed after vaccination, 
but which are not necessarily related to or caused by the vaccine.  
PRAC has requested additional information and further data from the 
marketing authorisation holder to finalise their assessment of myocarditis 
and pericarditis.   
Symptoms of myocarditis and pericarditis can vary but often include 
breathlessness, a forceful heartbeat that may be irregular (palpitations), 
and chest pain. These conditions can have various causes, including viral 
infection as a common cause and, less commonly, autoimmune disorders. 
Persons experiencing the above symptoms should seek immediate medical 
attention to obtain treatment.      
4 See update on page 1 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/11 
 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
About 216,000 doses of Nuvaxovid in adults were 
administered in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 26 June 
2022.5 
The initial marketing authorisation for Nuvaxovid in the EU was issued on 
20 December 2021. Information on how Nuvaxovid works is provided in the 
medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the 
vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is 
available in the product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
Spikevax (Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L.)  
Extensive swelling of the vaccinated limb 
Update to the product information 
Following PRAC’s assessment, extensive swelling of the vaccinated limb will 
be included in the EU product information as a side effect of Spikevax. The 
frequency category will be ‘not known’, as it is generally difficult to robustly 
estimate side effect frequencies from spontaneously reported cases of 
suspected side effects.  
Cases of extensive swelling of the vaccinated limb have been reported 
spontaneously with use of Spikevax (more than 3,200 EU/EEA cases 
reported to EudraVigilance (see section 2) by 2 May 2022). Generally, cases 
reported spontaneously by a patient or healthcare professional concern 
suspected side effects, i.e. medical events that have been observed after 
vaccination, but which are not necessarily related to or caused by the 
vaccine. 
In general, extensive swelling of the vaccinated limb is a condition that 
does not require treatment and resolves after some days. 
5 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. As of May 2022, exposure figures 
are calculated using a new method. Figures should therefore not be compared with those in 
the safety updates of previous months. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/11 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
About 155 million doses of Spikevax, including about 
3.1 million doses in children and adolescents (below 
18 years of age) were administered in the EU/EEA from 
authorisation to 26 June 2022.6 
The initial marketing authorisation for Spikevax (previously COVID-19 
Vaccine Moderna) in the EU was issued on 06 January 2021. Information on 
how Spikevax works is provided in the medicine overview (in all EU/EEA 
languages). Full information on the vaccine, including all identified side 
effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the product information 
(in all EU/EEA languages). 
Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca AB)  
Tinnitus 
Update to the product information 
Following PRAC’s assessment, tinnitus (persistent ringing in the ears) will be 
included in the EU product information as a side effect of Vaxzevria. The 
frequency category will be ‘uncommon’, i.e. occurring in less than 1 in 100 
vaccinated persons. 
Cases of tinnitus have been reported spontaneously with use of Vaxzevria. 
Generally, cases reported spontaneously by a patient or healthcare 
professional concern suspected side effects, i.e. medical events that have 
been observed after vaccination, but which are not necessarily related to or 
caused by the vaccine. In addition, new data on tinnitus was provided from 
an ongoing clinical trial. 
Paraesthesia and hypoaesthesia 
Update to the product information 
Following PRAC’s assessment, paraesthesia (unusual feeling in the skin, 
such as tingling or a crawling sensation) and hypoaesthesia (decreased 
feeling or sensitivity, especially in the skin) will be included in the EU 
product information as side effects of Vaxzevria. The frequency category 
will be ‘uncommon’, i.e. occurring in less than 1 in 100 vaccinated persons. 
Cases of paraesthesia and hypoaesthesia have been reported spontaneously 
with use of Vaxzevria. Generally, cases reported spontaneously by a patient 
or healthcare professional concern suspected side effects, i.e. medical 
6 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. As of May 2022, exposure figures 
are calculated using a new method. Figures should therefore not be compared with those in 
the safety updates of previous months. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/11 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
events that have been observed after vaccination, but which are not 
necessarily related to or caused by the vaccine. In addition, new data on 
paraesthesia and hypoaesthesia were provided from ongoing clinical trials. 
About 69 million doses of Vaxzevria in adults were 
administered in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 26 June 
2022.7 
The initial marketing authorisation for Vaxzevria (previously COVID-19 
Vaccine AstraZeneca) in the EU was issued on 29 January 2021. 
Information on how Vaxzevria works is provided in the medicine overview 
(in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the vaccine, including all 
identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the 
product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
2.  How safety is monitored 
Before COVID-19 vaccines were granted EU marketing authorisation, the 
efficacy and safety of the vaccines were assessed in pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. 
All relevant new information emerging worldwide on the vaccines since 
marketing authorisation is collected and promptly assessed. This is in line 
with the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
EMA’s detailed assessments take into account all available data from all 
sources to draw robust conclusions on the safety of the vaccines. These 
data include clinical trial results, reports of suspected side effects, 
epidemiological studies monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological 
investigations and any other relevant information. 
Summary safety reports 
The pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines includes monthly 
summary safety reports (MSSRs) which are compiled by the marketing 
authorisation holders to support timely and continuous benefit-risk 
evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. MSSRs are 
intended to be compiled in the first months of marketing. Afterwards, 
7 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. As of May 2022, exposure figures 
are calculated using a new method. Figures should therefore not be compared ‘with those 
in the safety updates of previous months. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 8/11 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
summary safety reports may cover time periods longer than a month or 
may not be necessary anymore. Summary safety reports complement 
periodic safety update reports (PSURs).  
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system.  
Healthcare professionals and vaccinated individuals are encouraged to 
report to their national competent authorities all suspected side effects 
individuals may have experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is 
unclear whether the vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to 
report, including the importance of detailing the vaccine product name and 
the batch, see Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU database 
used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. Publicly available 
information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – European database of 
suspected drug reaction reports (in all EU/EEA languages).  
As of 4 July 2022, EudraVigilance contained the following: 
•  Comirnaty: a total of 848,204 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 8,032 of these reported 
a fatal outcome8,9 (by 26 June 2022, about 649 million doses of 
Comirnaty had been given to people in the EU/EEA10) 
•  COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, adjuvanted) Valneva: no cases of 
suspected side effects spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries6,7 
(by 26 June 2022, the vaccine had not yet been used in the EU/EEA8) 
• 
Jcovden: a total of 54,475 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 322 of these reported a 
fatal outcome6,7 (by 26 June 2022, about 19.4 million doses of Jcovden 
had been administered to people in the EU/EEA8) 
•  Nuvaxovid: a total of 1,094 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; none of these reported 
8 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland).  
9 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side effect. 
As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case report, 
the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. Similarly, 
this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a fatal 
outcome. 
10 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. As of May 2022, exposure figures 
are calculated using a new method. Figures should therefore not be compared with those in 
the safety updates of previous months. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 9/11 
 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
a fatal outcome6,7 (by 26 June 2022, about 216,000 doses of Nuvaxovid 
had been administered to people in the EU/EEA8) 
•  Spikevax: a total of 230,524 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 1,086 of these reported 
a fatal outcome6,7 (by 26 June 2022, about 155 million doses of 
Spikevax had been given to people in the EU/EEA8) 
•  Vaxzevria: a total of 297,917 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 1,552 of these reported 
a fatal outcome6,7 (by 26 June 2022, about 69 million doses of 
Vaxzevria had been given to people in the EU/EEA8). 
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination does 
not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. This may 
have been caused, for example, by health problems not related to 
the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment.  
Planned and ongoing studies 
The companies that market COVID-19 vaccines continue to provide results 
from ongoing clinical trials. They also conduct additional studies to monitor 
the safety and effectiveness of the vaccines as they are used in vaccination 
campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned and ongoing 
safety studies with COVID-19 vaccines, see the respective risk management 
plan: Comirnaty, COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, adjuvanted) Valenva, 
Jcovden, Nuvaxovid, Spikevax and Vaxzevria.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) is in place for each authorised COVID-
19 vaccine: Comirnaty, COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, adjuvanted), 
Valneva (PIP under publication), Jcovden, Nuvaxovid, Spikevax and 
Vaxzevria. The PIP describes how the company will collect data on the 
vaccine’s efficacy and safety for its potential use in children. Two vaccines, 
Comirnaty and Spikevax, are authorised in the EU for use in children. 
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member States 
looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the safety and 
effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant women. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 10/11 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 11/11 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
