22 April 2021 
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Janssen-Cilag International NV 
Unusual blood clots in combination with low 
blood platelet levels have been identified as a 
very rare side effect of COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen.  
Vaccinated persons should seek immediate 
medical attention if symptoms of blood clotting 
occur, to help avoid complications. 
There are no recommended changes to the 
product information regarding the use of this 
vaccine; COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is effective 
in preventing COVID-19. 
Safety updates provide information about the assessments of emerging 
worldwide safety data since marketing authorisation for COVID-19 
vaccines. Safety assessments are carried out primarily by EMA’s 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC). The safety 
updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: authorised.  
All published safety updates for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen are available 
at COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen: safety updates. 
This safety update follows the last update of 14 April 2021.  
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
The use of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen in vaccination campaigns in the 
EU/EEA1 was temporarily postponed by the marketing authorisation 
holder. 
1.  Updates on safety of COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen 
At its meeting on 20 April 2021, PRAC assessed the following in relation 
to:  
Embolic and thrombotic events with a focus on 
thrombosis with thrombocytopenia 
PRAC assessed events of thrombosis (blood clots obstructing blood 
vessels) occurring together with thrombocytopenia (low blood platelets) 
reported after vaccination with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen.  
Taking into account all available evidence, including knowledge gained 
from the recent PRAC assessment of similar adverse events for Vaxzevria 
(previously COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca)2, PRAC concluded that the 
product information for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen should be updated to 
specify thrombosis with thrombocytopenia as a new very rare side effect. 
Furthermore, a warning should be included in the product information to 
make healthcare professionals and those being vaccinated aware of these 
very rare events and of their symptoms. 
People vaccinated with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen should seek immediate 
medical attention and inform healthcare professionals of their recent 
vaccination if they experience severe or persistent headache, blurred 
vision, shortness of breath, chest pain, persistent abdominal pain, leg 
swelling, unexplained skin bruising or tiny blood spots under the skin 
beyond the site of vaccination appearing a few days after vaccination. 
Healthcare professionals should be alert to the signs and symptoms of 
thromboembolism and/or thrombocytopenia and inform vaccinated people 
accordingly. Thrombosis in combination with thrombocytopenia requires 
specialised clinical management. Healthcare professionals should consult 
applicable guidance and specialists in haematology or coagulation to 
diagnose and treat this condition. Early recognition of the signs and timely 
initiation of treatment can help recovery and avoid complications. 
The PRAC assessment included eight cases of such events, reported for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen from clinical trials (1 case) and vaccination 
campaigns (7 cases) in the United States (US). More than 27,000 persons 
had been vaccinated in clinical trials and about 7 million people in the US 
1 The European Economic Area (EEA) includes the Member States of the European Union 
(EU) as well as the additional countries Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
2 See EMA’s COVID-19 vaccine safety update for Vaxzevria: 14 April 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
vaccination campaigns3. The allocated frequency category ‘very rare 
(occurring in less than 1 in 10,000 persons)’ is the category with the 
lowest frequency defined for regulatory labelling of any side effect in a 
product information. 
The  reported  cases  of  thrombosis  occurring  with  thrombocytopenia,  and 
sometimes  with  bleeding,  included  severe  venous  thromboses,  mostly  in 
unusual  sites  such  as  cerebral  venous  sinus  thrombosis  (CVST)  (where 
blood clots in the brain's venous sinuses prevent blood from draining out of 
the  brain)  and  splanchnic  vein  thrombosis  (which  involves  one  or  more 
veins in the abdomen, e.g. in liver, bowel and spleen), as well as arterial 
thromboses.  
These cases occurred within the first three weeks following vaccination, and 
mostly in women under 60 years of age; one had a fatal outcome. Based 
on  the  available  data,  the  pathophysiological  mechanism  leading  to  such 
events  could  not  yet  be  established,  nor  could  specific  risk  factors  be 
identified4. 
Further clarification and data have been requested from the marketing 
authorisation holder to support PRAC’s continued close monitoring. 
Studies investigating embolic and thrombotic events are already in place 
as part of the risk management plan approved at the time of the 
marketing authorisation.  
A direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) will be sent out 
and published to raise awareness among healthcare professionals of the 
updates to the product information.  
The use of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen in EU Member States should follow 
official recommendations of the national health authorities.  
2.  Other information for COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is a vaccine that was authorised in the EU on 
11 March 2021 for use in people aged 18 years and older to prevent 
COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a 
potentially severe disease that may result in death. 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen contains an adenovirus that has been modified 
to carry molecules of DNA, which the body uses to temporarily produce 
the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The spike protein does not cause COVID-
19. The adenovirus cannot reproduce and does not cause viral disease. 
Before COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen was granted an EU marketing 
authorisation, the efficacy and safety of the vaccine were assessed 
through pre-clinical studies and large clinical trials. More than 27,000 
participants have been given the vaccine in clinical trials.  
3 See CDC and FDA Joint Statement on Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 Vaccine of 13 April 
2021 
4 See EMA Public Health Communication of 20 April 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/5 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen are usually mild or moderate and get better 
within a few days after vaccination. 
More information on how COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen works and its use is 
available in the medicine overview. This includes information on use in 
pregnant and breastfeeding women and immunocompromised individuals. 
Information in all EU/EEA languages is available in the product 
information, which includes the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
3.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in 
line with the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
Collecting case reports of suspected side effects 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors reports of suspected 
side effects observed in vaccinated individuals. These case reports are 
collected and recorded in EudraVigilance, a system operated by EMA for 
managing and analysing information on suspected side effects of 
medicines. 
Vaccinated individuals and healthcare professionals should report 
suspected side effects via the national reporting systems, which also 
contribute to EudraVigilance. For more information, see Reporting 
suspected side effects. Information on how to report in your Member State 
is available in the package leaflet and via the list of national competent 
authorities. 
You may visit EudraVigilance – European database of suspected drug 
reaction reports and search for “COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
(AD26.COV2.S)” to see all suspected side effects reported for COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen in the EU/EEA. Please note that these reports describe 
suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. these events may not necessarily 
have been caused by, or be otherwise related to, the vaccine. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen will continue to 
provide results from ongoing clinical trials. It will also conduct additional 
studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used 
in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/5 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
and ongoing safety studies for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, see the risk 
management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is in 
place. This describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s 
efficacy and safety for its potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in Member States 
looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the safety and 
effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant women. 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
