14 July 2021  
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
SPIKEVAX 
Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L. 
The safety of Spikevax is continuously monitored and safety updates are 
regularly provided to the public. This document outlines the outcomes 
from the assessment of emerging worldwide safety data carried out by 
EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) (see section 
1). It also contains high-level information from the reporting of suspected 
adverse reactions, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (see 
section 2). 
This safety update follows the update of 18 June 2021. 
Main outcomes from PRAC's latest 
safety assessment 
Inflammation of the heart muscle (myocarditis) 
or membrane (pericarditis) may occur in a 
small number of people after vaccination with 
Spikevax.  
The product information will be updated.    
Spikevax is effective in preventing COVID-19. 
The safety updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: 
authorised. All published safety updates for Spikevax (previously known 
as COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna) are available at Spikevax: safety updates. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 6 January 
2021 until 4 July 2021, more than 35 million doses of Spikevax have been 
administered in the EU/EEA1. 
 More than 35 million 
doses administered in EEA 
1.  Updates on safety assessments for 
Spikevax  
Based on new safety data, including the latest Monthly Summary Safety 
Report (MSSR)2 from the marketing authorisation holder and data 
reported by patients and healthcare professionals to EudraVigilance (see 
section 2), PRAC assessed the following at its meeting held 5 to 8 July 
2021:  
Myocarditis and pericarditis  
PRAC concluded that myocarditis and pericarditis can occur in very rare 
cases following vaccination with Spikevax and should be added in 
the product information as new side effects, together with a warning to 
raise awareness among healthcare professionals and people taking these 
vaccines. 
Myocarditis and pericarditis are inflammatory conditions of the heart. 
Symptoms can vary but often include breathlessness, a forceful heartbeat 
that may be irregular (palpitations), and chest pain. 
The product information will be updated to include these side effects with 
a frequency category of ‘unknown frequency’, because it is generally 
difficult to robustly estimate side effect frequencies from cases of 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 Monthly Summary Safety Reports, also known as pandemic summary safety reports, 
will be compiled by the marketing authorisation holders to support timely and continuous 
benefit-risk evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. These reports 
complement the submission of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
suspected side effects that have been reported by healthcare professionals 
or patients spontaneously. 
In reaching its conclusion, PRAC took into consideration all currently 
available evidence on both mRNA COVID-19 vaccines, i.e. Spikevax and 
Comirnaty. This included an in-depth review of 19 cases of myocarditis in 
the EU/EEA among people who received Spikevax. PRAC also reviewed 
reports of 19 cases of pericarditis following the use of Spikevax. As of 31 
May 2021, around 197 million doses of mRNA COVID-19 vaccines had 
been given in the EU/EEA (approximately 20 million doses of Spikevax and 
177 million doses of Comirnaty). In addition PRAC also looked into cases 
received worldwide.  
The cases primarily occurred within 14 days after vaccination, more often 
after the second dose and in younger adult men. In five cases that 
occurred in the EU/EEA, people died. They were either of advanced age or 
had concomitant diseases. Available data suggest that the course of 
myocarditis and pericarditis following vaccination is similar to the typical 
course of these conditions, usually improving with rest or treatment.  
Healthcare professionals should: 
- be alert to the signs and symptoms of myocarditis and pericarditis in 
people who have had these vaccines;  
- tell people receiving these vaccines to seek immediate medical attention 
if symptoms indicative of myocarditis or pericarditis occur; and 
- consult applicable guidance and/or consult specialists (e.g. cardiologists) 
to diagnose and treat these conditions, as people with myocarditis or 
pericarditis may require specialist treatment. 
Although the risk of these conditions occurring is very low, people who 
have received this vaccine must seek immediate medical attention and 
treatment to help recovery and avoid complications if they have the 
following symptoms suggestive of myocarditis and pericarditis: 
- breathlessness; 
- a forceful heartbeat that may be irregular (palpitations); or 
- (acute and persisting) chest pain. 
Questions about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in EU Member States 
can be addressed to healthcare professionals or the national health 
authority. 
EMA confirms that the benefits of Spikevax continue to outweigh the risks, 
given the risks of COVID-19 illness and related complications; scientific 
evidence shows that the vaccine reduces deaths and hospitalisations due 
to COVID-19.  
A direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) will be sent in due 
course to healthcare professionals prescribing, dispensing or administering 
the medicine. The DHPC will also be published on a dedicated webpage. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/7 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
The PRAC recommendations will be submitted to EMA’s human medicine 
committee, CHMP, for endorsement3. 
Anaphylaxis and other hypersensitivity 
reactions 
Anaphylaxis is a known side effect of Spikevax and listed in its product 
information. PRAC keeps anaphylaxis under close monitoring; an 
assessment is ongoing to consider providing more details of anaphylaxis 
and other hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions in the product information. 
Information on the clinical management of anaphylaxis is already available 
in the product information. 
Delayed injection site reaction 
In May 2021, based on cases reported in clinical trials and from 
vaccination campaigns, PRAC concluded that information on delayed 
injection site reaction should be added to the product information of 
Spikevax4. An assessment to describe the characteristics of this side effect 
and its frequency is ongoing. 
Immune thrombocytopenia 
PRAC concluded its assessment of immune thrombocytopenia (ITP, an 
auto-immune condition of low blood platelet levels that can lead to 
bruising and bleeding) reported with Spikevax. Although nine cases were 
considered possibly related to the vaccine, no clear causal relationship 
could be established in any of these cases. The patients also had other, 
non-vaccine-related, factors that could be linked to ITP. Nonetheless, 
PRAC concluded that, based on the current evidence, a causal relationship 
between ITP and Spikevax could not be excluded either and this topic will 
therefore remain under close monitoring in the context of the Periodic 
Safety Update Reports.  
2.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
Spikevax is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission). 
3 See EMA public health communication on myocarditis and pericarditis with Comirnaty 
and Spikevax of 9 July 2021 
4 See safety update for COVID-19 vaccine Moderna of 11 May 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/7 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system. Healthcare professionals and 
vaccinated individuals are encouraged to report to their national 
competent authorities all suspected side effects individuals may have 
experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is unclear whether the 
vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to report, see 
Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU 
database used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. 
Publicly available information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – 
European database of suspected drug reaction reports in all EU/EEA 
languages. Search for “COVID-19 MRNA VACCINE MODERNA (CX-
024414)” to see all suspected side effect cases reported for Spikevax. 
As of 4 July 2021, a total of 36,294 cases of suspected side effects with 
Spikevax were spontaneously reported to EudraVigilance from EU/EEA 
countries; 347 of these reported a fatal outcome5,6. Around that time, 
about 35 million doses of Spikevax had been given to people in the 
EU/EEA7.  
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination 
does not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. 
This may have been caused, for example, by health problems not 
related to the vaccination. 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment. EMA’s detailed assessments take into 
account all available data from all sources to draw a robust conclusion on 
the safety of the vaccine. These data include clinical trial results, reports 
of suspected side effects in EudraVigilance, epidemiological studies 
5 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
6 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side 
effects. As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case 
report, the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. 
Similarly, this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a 
fatal outcome. 
7 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/7 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological investigations and any 
other relevant information. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets Spikevax will continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trial, which is ongoing for up to two years. It will also 
conduct additional studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the 
vaccine as it is used in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. 
For the list of planned and ongoing safety studies for Spikevax, see the 
risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Spikevax is in place. This 
describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
3.  Other information for Spikevax 
Spikevax (previously known as COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna) was 
authorised in the EU on 6 January 2021 for use in people aged 18 years 
and older to prevent COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus SARS-
CoV-2. COVID-19 is a potentially severe disease that may result in death. 
Spikevax contains a molecule called mRNA, which the body uses to 
temporarily produce the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The mRNA is broken 
down shortly after vaccination. The spike protein does not cause COVID-
19.  
Before Spikevax was granted an EU marketing authorisation, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. More than 14,000 participants had been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
Spikevax are usually mild or moderate and get better within a few days 
after vaccination. 
More information on how Spikevax works and its use is available in all 
EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes information on 
use in pregnant and breastfeeding women and immunocompromised 
individuals. 
The full product information with the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/7 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
