4 March 2021  
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
COMIRNATY 
BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH 
The latest safety data for this vaccine are in 
line with the known benefit-risk profile; the 
outcomes of the related assessments are 
presented in this update. 
Diarrhoea and vomiting after vaccination have 
been identified as new side effects.  
The benefits of Comirnaty in preventing COVID-
19 continue to outweigh any risks, and there 
are no recommended changes regarding the 
use of this vaccine. 
Safety updates provide the outcomes of the assessment of emerging data 
since marketing authorisation for COVID-19 vaccines. The assessments 
are carried out by EMA’s safety committee (Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee [PRAC]) based on all available data. The safety 
updates are published regularly at Post-authorisation: Safety updates.  
All published safety updates for Comirnaty are available at Comirnaty: 
safety updates. 
This safety update follows the last update of 28 January 2021. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
1.  Updates on safety of Comirnaty 
On 25 February 2021, after assessing new safety data, PRAC concluded 
that the benefit-risk balance of Comirnaty remains unchanged. The 
assessment covered all new safety data emerging worldwide, including the 
second Summary Monthly Safety Report1 and a review of severe allergic 
reaction from the marketing authorisation holder. Specifically, the 
following was concluded by PRAC in relation to:  
Diarrhoea and vomiting 
The assessment identified diarrhoea and vomiting after vaccination as new 
side effects of Comirnaty. The frequency of these side effects and the 
extent to which they occur are being assessed further. The product 
information will be updated accordingly.    
Severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) 
Case reports of suspected anaphylaxis for Comirnaty were assessed and 
did not lead to any changes in the recommended use of this vaccine. 
Anaphylaxis continues to be closely monitored. Information on the clinical 
management of anaphylaxis is already available in the product 
information. 
Suspected side effects with fatal outcome 
PRAC assessed case reports of suspected side effects with fatal outcome 
following vaccination with Comirnaty. In most cases, progression of 
(multiple) pre-existing diseases seemed to be a plausible explanation for 
death. In some individuals, palliative care had been initiated before 
vaccination. This assessment of the available data did not identify a safety 
concern.  
2.  Other information for Comirnaty 
Comirnaty is a vaccine that was authorised in the European Union (EU) on 
21 December 2020 for use in people aged 16 years and older to prevent 
development of COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-
2. COVID-19 is a potentially severe disease that may result in death. 
Comirnaty contains a molecule called mRNA, which the body uses to 
temporarily produce the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The mRNA is broken 
1 Summary Monthly Safety Reports will be compiled by the marketing authorisation 
holders for COVID-19 vaccines to support timely and continuous benefit-risk evaluations. 
The submission of such reports complements the submission of periodic safety update 
reports (PSURs). 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/4 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
down shortly after vaccination. The spike protein does not cause COVID-
19.  
Before Comirnaty was granted an EU marketing authorisation, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. More than 18,000 participants have been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
Comirnaty are usually mild or moderate and get better within a few days 
after vaccination. 
More information on how Comirnaty works and its use is available in the 
medicine overview. This includes information on use in pregnant and 
breastfeeding women and immunocompromised individuals. 
Information in all EU/EEA languages is available in the product 
information, which includes the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
3.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, all relevant new information emerging on 
Comirnaty is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission). 
Collecting case reports of suspected side effects 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors reports of suspected 
side effects observed in vaccinated individuals. These case reports are 
collected and recorded in EudraVigilance, a system operated by EMA for 
managing and analysing information on suspected side effects of 
medicines. 
Vaccinated individuals and healthcare professionals should report 
suspected side effects via the national reporting systems, which also 
contribute to EudraVigilance. For more information, see Reporting side 
effects. Information on how to report side effects in your Member State is 
available in the package leaflet and the list of national competent 
authorities. 
You may visit EudraVigilance – European database of suspected drug 
reaction reports and search for “COVID-19 mRNA Vaccine PFIZER-
BIONTECH (Tozinameran)” to see all suspected side effects reported for 
Comirnaty in the EU. Please note that these reports describe suspected 
side effects in individuals, i.e. these events may not necessarily have been 
caused by, or be otherwise related to, the vaccine. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/4 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets Comirnaty will continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trial, which is ongoing for up to two years. It will also 
conduct additional studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the 
vaccine as it is used in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. 
For the list of planned and ongoing safety studies for Comirnaty, see the 
risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Comirnaty is in place. This 
describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women.  
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/4 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
