6 October 2021  
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
SPIKEVAX 
Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L. 
The safety of Spikevax is continuously monitored and safety updates are 
regularly provided to the public. This document outlines the outcomes 
from the assessment of emerging worldwide safety data carried out by 
EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) (see section 
1). It also contains high-level information from the reporting of suspected 
adverse reactions, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (see 
section 2). 
This safety update follows the update of 8 September 2021. 
Main outcomes from PRAC's latest 
safety assessment 
Erythema multiforme (red spots/patches on the 
skin) will be added to the product information 
as a side effect of Spikevax. 
The safety updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: 
authorised. All published safety updates for Spikevax (previously known 
as COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna) are available at Spikevax: safety updates. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 6 January 
2021 until 30 September 2021, more than 59.8 million doses of Spikevax 
have been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
 More than 59.8 million 
doses administered in EEA 
1.  Updates on safety assessments for 
Spikevax  
During its meeting held 27 to 30 September 2021, PRAC assessed new 
safety data (see section 2 ‘How safety is monitored’). 
Erythema multiforme  
Update to the Spikevax product information 
PRAC continued its assessment of whether erythema multiforme (EM) may 
be a side effect of Spikevax.  
EM is a skin reaction that causes red spots or patches on the skin, that 
may look like a target or "bulls-eye" with a dark red centre surrounded by 
paler red rings. 
143 cases had been spontaneously reported as EM worldwide to 
EudraVigilance (see section 2) as of 31 July 2021 (around 207 million 
doses of Spikevax were estimated to have been administered worldwide 
by 31 July 2021). Of these, 29 were assessed as confirmed reports of EM; 
5 of these were considered to be probably causally related to Spikevax 
and 20 as possibly causally related to Spikevax. This was determined 
based on a plausible time to onset of the adverse event following 
vaccination, the absence of alternative explanations and the level of 
information available in the case reports. Spontaneously reported cases 
concern suspected side effects, i.e. medical events that have been 
observed after vaccination, but which are not necessarily related to or 
caused by the vaccine. 
Based on these case reports and the fact that there is a plausible 
mechanism for how the vaccine may cause EM, PRAC concluded that the 
product information should be updated to include erythema multiforme as 
a side effect of Spikevax. The frequency category will be ‘unknown 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
frequency’, because it is generally difficult to robustly estimate side effect 
frequencies from cases of suspected side effects that have been reported 
spontaneously by healthcare professionals or patients. 
Menstrual disorders  
No evidence for causal relationship with Spikevax 
PRAC assessed cases reported as menstrual disorders occurring after 
vaccination with Spikevax as well as a review of the scientific literature.  
Until 31 August 2021, a total of 3,619 cases had been reported 
spontaneously worldwide (118 concerned post-menopausal bleeding), of 
which 829 (22.9%) were medically confirmed by a healthcare professional 
as menstrual disorder (117 as serious) (around 230 million doses of 
Spikevax were estimated to have been administered worldwide by 31 
August 2021). Spontaneously reported cases concern suspected side 
effects, i.e. medical events that have been observed after vaccination, but 
which are not necessarily related to or caused by the vaccine.  
The assessment of all spontaneously reported cases included an analysis 
of the type of symptoms, their time to onset and duration, as well as 
concomitant treatment and medical history/current conditions; no specific 
pattern of menstrual cycle disturbances could be identified. The event 
duration was short, with an average of 10.3 days and a median of 5.0 
days (range 0-179). Observed-to-expected (O/E) analyses for pre- and 
postmenopausal women resulted in O/E ratios substantially below 1; this 
means the numbers of cases reported after vaccination in relevant time 
windows were below the numbers of such events expected to occur in the 
unvaccinated female populations of the same size (based on observational 
data collected from the general population), even when assuming that all 
reported cases would be assessed as possibly causally related. In addition, 
no statistical differences in reports of menstrual disorder between the 
vaccinated and unvaccinated groups could be identified from clinical trial 
data.      
PRAC also considered the assessment carried out in August 2021 by the 
Medicines & Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the United 
Kingdom (UK), which concluded that the number of case reports in the UK 
were low in relation to both the number of vaccinated women and how 
common menstrual disorders are generally, that the symptoms were 
transient, and that the data did not support a causal link between changes 
to menstrual periods and the COVID-19 vaccines available in the UK, 
including Spikevax2. 
Based on the assessment of all data, PRAC concluded that there is 
currently no evidence suggesting a causal relationship of menstrual 
disorders with Spikevax. 
2 For the latest UK data, see Coronavirus vaccine – weekly summary of Yellow Card 
reporting 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/7 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
Menstrual disorders are very common in the general population and can 
occur without an underlying medical condition. Causes can range from 
stress and tiredness to conditions such as fibroids and endometriosis.     
Glomerulonephritis and nephrotic syndrome 
Close monitoring continues 
Following a small number of cases after vaccination with Spikevax 
reported in the medical literature3, PRAC continued their assessment of 
whether glomerulonephritis (inflammation of tiny filters in the kidneys) 
and nephrotic syndrome (kidney disorder causing the kidneys to leak too 
much protein in the urine) may be side effects of Spikevax.  
PRAC assessed 33 cases which had been spontaneously reported as 
glomerulonephritis or nephrotic syndrome worldwide to EudraVigilance 
(see section 2). Of these, 11 cases were assessed as possibly causally 
related to Spikevax based on a plausible temporal association. The 
relapsing/remitting forms of this type of disease are common and the 
cause of relapse or new-onset disease can often not be determined. The 
remaining cases were considered unlikely to be causally related to 
Spikevax or could not be assessed due to limited information in the case 
reports. An observed-to-expected (O/E) analysis (which looked at the 
number of cases reported worldwide in relation to the number of such 
events expected to occur in the unvaccinated population of the same size 
[based on observational data collected from the general population]) did 
not show statistically significant increases.   
PRAC concluded that the currently available data were not sufficient to 
establish a causal relationship of glomerulonephritis or nephrotic 
syndrome with Spikevax. However, the topic remains under close 
monitoring.   
PRAC encourages all healthcare professionals and patients to report any 
cases of glomerulonephritis or nephrotic syndrome occurring in people 
after vaccination (see section 2). Affected patients may present with 
bloody or foamy urine, oedema (swelling especially of the eyelids, feet or 
abdomen), or fatigue. 
2.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
Spikevax is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with the 
3 Anderegg et al. De novo vasculitis after mRNA-1273 (Moderna) vaccination. Kidney Int. 
1 Jun 2021.; Holzworth et al. Minimal change disease following the Moderna mRNA-1273 
SARS-CoV-2 vaccine Kidney Int. 2021; 100: 463-464.; Kudose et al. Histologic correlates 
of gross hematuria following Moderna COVID-19 vaccine in patients with IgA 
nephropathy. Kidney international. 16 June 2021.; Negrea & Rovin. Gross hematuria 
following vaccination for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 in 2 patients 
with IgA nephropathy. Kidney Int. 2021; 99: 1487.; Sekar et al. ANCA 
glomerulonephritis after the Moderna COVID-19 vaccination. Kidney international. 31 
May 2021. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/7 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission). 
Summary safety reports 
The pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines includes Monthly 
Summary Safety Reports (MSSRs) which are compiled by the marketing 
authorisation holders to support timely and continuous benefit-risk 
evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. MSSRs are 
intended to be compiled for at least the first six months of marketing 
(afterwards, pandemic summary safety reports may cover time periods 
longer than a month). These reports complement the submission of 
Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system. Healthcare professionals and 
vaccinated individuals are encouraged to report to their national 
competent authorities all suspected side effects individuals may have 
experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is unclear whether the 
vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to report, including 
the importance of detailing the vaccine product name and the batch, see 
Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU 
database used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. 
Publicly available information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – 
European database of suspected drug reaction reports in all EU/EEA 
languages. Search for “COVID-19 MRNA VACCINE MODERNA (CX-
024414)” to see all suspected side effect cases reported for Spikevax. 
As of 30 September 2021, a total of 80,486 cases of suspected side 
effects with Spikevax were spontaneously reported to EudraVigilance from 
EU/EEA countries; 495 of these reported a fatal outcome4,5. By the same 
4 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
5 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side 
effects. As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case 
report, the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. 
Similarly, this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a 
fatal outcome. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/7 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
date, more than 59.8 million doses of Spikevax had been given to people 
in the EU/EEA6.  
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination 
does not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. 
This may have been caused, for example, by health problems not 
related to the vaccination. 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment. EMA’s detailed assessments take into 
account all available data from all sources to draw a robust conclusion on 
the safety of the vaccine. These data include clinical trial results, reports 
of suspected side effects in EudraVigilance, epidemiological studies 
monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological investigations and any 
other relevant information. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets Spikevax will continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trial, which is ongoing for up to two years. It will also 
conduct additional studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the 
vaccine as it is used in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. 
For the list of planned and ongoing safety studies for Spikevax, see the 
risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Spikevax is in place. This 
describes how the company collects data on the vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
3.  Other information for Spikevax 
Spikevax (previously known as COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna) is a vaccine 
that was authorised in the EU on 6 January 2021 to prevent COVID-19 
when infected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a 
potentially severe disease that may result in death. The initial marketing 
6 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/7 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
authorisation was for use in people aged 18 years and older; on 23 July 
2021, the marketing authorisation was extended to use in individuals aged 
12 years and older.  
Spikevax contains a molecule called mRNA, which the body uses to 
temporarily produce the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The mRNA is broken 
down shortly after vaccination. The spike protein does not cause COVID-
19.  
Before Spikevax was granted an EU marketing authorisation, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. More than 14,000 participants had been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
Spikevax are usually mild or moderate and get better within a few days 
after vaccination. 
More information on how Spikevax works and its use is available in all 
EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes information on 
use in pregnant and breastfeeding women and immunocompromised 
individuals. 
The full product information with the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages. 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
