29 March 2021  
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
VAXZEVRIA 
AstraZeneca AB 
Severe allergic reaction will be included in the 
product information as a known side effect. 
A warning on very rare specific blood clot 
events has been included in the product 
information, while further investigations into a 
possible causal relationship with the vaccine are 
ongoing.  
Vaccinated persons should seek immediate 
medical attention if symptoms of blood clotting 
and/or bleeding occur. 
The benefits of Vaxzevria in preventing COVID-
19 continue to outweigh the risks; and there 
are no recommended changes regarding the 
use of this vaccine. 
Safety updates provide the outcomes of the assessment of emerging data 
since marketing authorisation for COVID-19 vaccines. The assessments 
are carried out by EMA’s safety committee (Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee [PRAC]). The safety updates are published 
regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: authorised.  
All published safety updates for Vaxzevria (previously known as COVID-19 
Vaccine AstraZeneca) are available at Vaxzevria: safety updates. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
This safety update is the first update after the marketing authorisation in 
the European Union (EU).  
Since its marketing authorisation in the EU on 29 January 2021 until 25 
March 2021, more than 10 million doses of Vaxzevria have been 
administered in the EU/EEA1. 
1.  Updates on safety of Vaxzevria 
At its meetings held 8 to 11 March, on 18 March and on 25 March 2021, 
PRAC assessed all new safety data emerging worldwide, including the 
latest Summary Monthly Safety Report2 from the marketing authorisation 
holder, and concluded that the benefit-risk balance of Vaxzevria remains 
positive.  
Specifically, the following was concluded by PRAC in relation to:  
Anaphylaxis and other allergic reactions   
Cases of suspected anaphylaxis (severe allergic reaction) have been 
reported for Vaxzevria from its use in vaccination campaigns. In 
particular, 41 cases reported to EudraVigilance (see section 3) from 
around 5 million vaccinations in the United Kingdom (UK) (data lock point: 
16-February-2021) were assessed at the PRAC meeting held 8 to 11 
March 20213. 
Following PRAC assessment, anaphylaxis and other allergic 
(hypersensitivity) reactions will now be included in the EU product 
information as known side effects. The frequency of these side effects, for 
inclusion in the EU product information, could not yet be estimated. 
Anaphylaxis continues to be closely monitored.  
Information on the clinical management of anaphylaxis is already available 
in the product information and does not require updating. 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these data 
from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 Summary Monthly Safety Reports will be compiled by the marketing authorisation 
holders for COVID-19 vaccines to support timely and continuous benefit-risk evaluations. 
These reports complement the submission of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
3 See Meeting Highlights from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
8-11 March 2021. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/6 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
Embolic and thrombotic events 
Cases of embolic and thrombotic events (formation of blood clots in the 
blood vessels) have been reported for Vaxzevria from its use in 
vaccination campaigns. 
Following discussions during and after its meeting held 8 to 11 March 
2021, on 18 March 2021 PRAC conducted a preliminary assessment - 
involving experts in blood disorders - of the available evidence from case 
reports in EudraVigilance (see section 3), quality, clinical, pre-clinical and 
scientific literature data, and data from the marketing authorisation 
holder. PRAC concluded the following:  
There was no evidence of a problem with manufacturing or product quality 
related to the vaccine batches specified in the case reports. This was 
based on a quality assessment carried out within the EU regulatory 
network. This included the information from the official medicines control 
laboratory release certificates. These comprise independent testing and 
checking of the manufacturer’s key test results before release of any 
batch of COVID-19 vaccines to the EU/EEA market. 
Overall, the number of cases of embolic and thrombotic events after 
vaccination reported to EudraVigilance (see section 3) in relation to the 
number of people vaccinated was lower than the rate of such events in the 
general population. 
However, Vaxzevria could possibly be associated with very rare cases of 
specific embolic and thrombotic events in combination with low levels of 
blood platelets (thrombocytopenia) and related bleeding. These events 
include disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) (where blood clots 
occur in multiple blood vessels) and cerebral venous sinus 
thrombosis (CVST) (where blood clots in the brain's venous sinuses 
prevent blood from draining out of the brain).  
In the reported cases, including some that resulted in death, these events 
occurred within 14 days after vaccination. They occurred mostly in people 
under 55 years of age, the majority of whom were women. However, 
these patient characteristics could reflect the higher proportion of such 
individuals offered Vaxzevria in vaccination campaigns. As part of the 
preliminary assessment, the number of cases reported were compared to 
rates for these events applicable to the general EU population before the 
SARS-Cov-2 pandemic. This comparison showed increased numbers in 
vaccinated people. Such imbalances in numbers of cases between the 
general and vaccinated populations were not visible for the older age 
groups.  
A causal link of DIC and CVST with the vaccine is not proven but cannot 
be excluded and requires further investigation. 
People vaccinated with Vaxzevria should seek immediate medical attention 
if symptoms of blood clotting occur and inform healthcare professionals of 
their recent vaccination. Such symptoms include shortness of breath, 
chest or persistent abdominal pain, leg swelling, severe or persistent 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/6 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
headache, blurred vision, persistent bleeding, and skin bruising or round, 
pinpoint spots beyond the site of vaccination appearing after a few days. 
The product information for Vaxzevria has been updated with this 
warning, and a direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) has 
been sent out to raise awareness among healthcare professionals4. 
Based on all available data on embolic and thrombotic events, PRAC 
considered that the benefits of Vaxzevria in preventing COVID-19 and 
related death continue to outweigh the risks, and that this vaccine can be 
used while further data collection and assessment are ongoing5. 
Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) 
For all COVID-19 vaccines used in the EU, a specific PRAC assessment of 
immune thrombocytopenia (ITP, low blood platelet levels that can lead to 
bruising and bleeding) as a suspected side effect has been initiated. At 
this stage of the assessment, a causal association of ITP with any COVID-
19 vaccine has not been established6. 
2.  Other information for Vaxzevria 
Vaxzevria (previously COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca) is a vaccine that 
was authorised in the EU on 29 January 2021 for use in people aged 18 
years and older to prevent COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus 
SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a potentially severe disease that may result in 
death. 
Vaxzevria contains an adenovirus that has been modified to carry 
molecules of DNA, which the body uses to temporarily produce the SARS-
CoV-2 spike protein. The spike protein does not cause COVID-19. The 
adenovirus cannot reproduce and does not cause viral disease. 
Before Vaxzevria was granted an EU marketing authorisation, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. More than 12,000 participants have been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
Vaxzevria are usually mild or moderate and get better within a few days 
after vaccination. 
More information on how Vaxzevria works and its use is available in the 
medicine overview. This includes information on use in pregnant and 
breastfeeding women and immunocompromised individuals. 
4 See DHPC ‘COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca: Risk of thrombocytopenia and coagulation 
disorders’. 
5 See EMA Public Health Communication of 18 March 2021. 
6 See Meeting Highlights from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
8-11 March 2021. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/6 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
Information in all EU/EEA languages is available in the product 
information, which includes the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
3.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
Vaxzevria is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission). 
Collecting case reports of suspected side effects 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors reports of suspected 
side effects observed in vaccinated individuals. These case reports are 
collected and recorded in EudraVigilance, a system operated by EMA for 
managing and analysing information on suspected side effects of 
medicines. 
Vaccinated individuals and healthcare professionals should report 
suspected side effects via the national reporting systems, which also 
contribute to EudraVigilance. For more information, see Reporting side 
effects. Information on how to report side effects in your Member State is 
available in the package leaflet and the list of national competent 
authorities. 
You may visit EudraVigilance – European database of suspected drug 
reaction reports and search for “COVID-19 VACCINE ASTRAZENECA 
(CHADOX1 NCOV-19)” to see all suspected side effects reported for 
Vaxzevria in the EU/EEA. Please note that these reports describe 
suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. these events may not necessarily 
have been caused by, or be otherwise related to, the vaccine. 
By 22 March 2021, 28 041 cases of suspected side effects reported for 
Vaxzevria from the EU/EEA had been included and monitored in 
EudraVigilance, relating to around 9.2 million doses administered7.   
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets Vaxzevria will continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trials, which are ongoing. It will also conduct additional 
studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used 
in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned 
and ongoing safety studies for Vaxzevria, see the risk management plan.  
7 See EMA Public stakeholder meeting: approval, safety monitoring and impact of COVID-
19 vaccines in the EU on 26 March 2021. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/6 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Vaxzevria is in place. This 
describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in Member States 
looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the safety and 
effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant women. 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/6 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
