20 January 2022 
COVID-19 vaccines 
safety update  
Comirnaty (BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH) 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (Janssen-Cilag International NV) 
Nuvaxovid (Novavax CZ, a.s.) 
Spikevax (Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L.) 
Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca AB) 
The safety of authorised COVID-19 vaccines is continuously monitored and 
updated information is regularly provided to the public.  
Safety updates outline the outcomes from assessments of emerging 
worldwide safety data carried out mainly by EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee (PRAC) (section 1). They also outline how safety is 
monitored and contain high-level information on suspected adverse reaction 
reports, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (section 2).  
This safety update follows the updates of 9 December 2021 and reflects the 
main assessment outcomes of the PRAC meeting held 10 to 13 January 
2022. 
EMA confirms that the benefits of all currently authorised COVID-19 
vaccines continue to outweigh their side effects, given the risk of COVID-19 
illness and related complications, including hospitalisation and death. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Key messages from the latest safety 
assessments 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen and Vaxzevria 
• 
• 
The product information will be updated to add transverse myelitis 
(inflammation in the spinal cord) as a side effect.  
Information on the known side effect of thrombosis with 
thrombocytopenia syndrome (TTS; blood clots with low blood platelets) 
will be updated in the product information. 
Spikevax 
• 
The product information will be updated to include paraesthesia 
(unusual feeling in the skin) as a rare side effect. 
Comirnaty and Spikevax 
•  An assessment of whether vaccination can cause capillary leak 
syndrome (leakage of fluid from blood vessels) is ongoing. 
1.  Latest safety assessments  
Comirnaty (BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH) 
About 545 million doses of Comirnaty were 
administered in the EU/EEA between EU marketing 
authorisation on 21 December 2020 and 2 January 20221. 
Capillary leak syndrome                             
Ongoing assessment 
In January 2022, PRAC started an assessment of reports of capillary leak 
syndrome (CLS) in people vaccinated with Comirnaty. CLS is a disorder 
characterised by leakage of fluid from blood vessels causing tissue swelling 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
and a fall in blood pressure. The investigations of whether Comirnaty can 
cause CLS will include an assessment of the most recent scientific literature. 
Use of the vaccine in pregnancy                             
No sign of adverse outcomes 
A review of several studies involving around 65,000 pregnancies at different 
stages did not find any sign of an increased risk of pregnancy complications, 
miscarriages, preterm births or adverse effects in the unborn babies 
following vaccination with the mRNA vaccines Comirnaty and Spikevax. The 
review was conducted by EMA’s COVID-19 pandemic task force (ETF) and 
further information can be found in this EMA communication. 
Information on how Comirnaty works is presented in the medicine overview 
(in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the vaccine, including all 
identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the 
product information (in all EU/EEA languages).  
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (Janssen-Cilag International NV) 
About 18,7 million doses of COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen were administered in the EU/EEA between EU 
marketing authorisation on 11 March 2021 and 2 January 
20221. 
Transverse myelitis 
Update to the product information 
Following a previous assessment (see safety update for COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen of 6 October 2021), in January 2022 PRAC finalised the update of 
the product information on transverse myelitis (TM) as a side effect of 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. TM is a neurological condition characterised by 
an inflammation in the spinal cord. The frequency category of this side 
effect will be ‘unknown frequency’, because it is generally difficult to 
robustly estimate side effect frequencies from cases of suspected side 
effects that have been reported by healthcare professionals or patients 
spontaneously. Further information can be found in the PRAC highlights of 
January 2022.  
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
People are advised to seek immediate medical attention if 
they develop weakness in the arms or legs, sensory 
symptoms (such as tingling, numbness, pain or loss of pain 
sensation) or problems with bladder or bowel function after 
vaccination. 
Thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome 
Update to the product information 
Following the last update to the product information regarding the very rare 
side effect of thrombosis (formation of blood clots in the blood vessels) with 
thrombocytopenia (low blood platelets) syndrome (TTS) (see safety update 
for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen of 11 May 2021), in January 2022 PRAC 
concluded that the product information should be updated further. This 
update will remove the current statement that reported TTS cases occurred 
mostly in women, since the sex imbalance seems smaller than previously 
observed. The observed cases occurred within the first three weeks 
following vaccination, mostly in individuals under 60 years of age.  
Reminder: People are advised to seek immediate medical 
attention if they experience severe or persistent headaches, 
seizures (fits), mental status changes or blurred vision, 
unexpected bleeding, unexpected skin bruising beyond the 
site of vaccination which appears days after vaccination, or 
pinpoint round spots beyond the site of vaccination, or 
develop shortness of breath, chest pain, leg pain, leg 
swelling, or persistent abdominal pain (see product 
information). 
Information on how COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen works is presented in the 
medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the 
vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is 
available in the product information (in all EU/EEA languages). The product 
information will be updated in accordance with the latest safety assessment 
outcomes. 
Nuvaxovid (Novavax CZ, a.s.) 
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 20 
December 2021, Nuvaxovid has not yet been used in the EU/EEA1.  
All relevant new information that may emerge worldwide will be collected, 
promptly reviewed and communicated as needed. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Information on how Nuvaxovid works is presented in the medicine overview 
(in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the vaccine, including all 
identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the 
product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
Spikevax (Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L.) 
About 103 million doses of Spikevax were administered 
in the EU/EEA between EU marketing authorisation on 6 
January 2021 and 2 January 20221. 
Paraesthesia  
Update to the product information 
In January 2022, PRAC concluded that paraesthesia (unusual feeling in the 
skin, such as tingling or a crawling feeling) should be added to the product 
information as a side effect of Spikevax. The frequency of this side effect 
was estimated as rare (i.e. occurring in less than 1 in 1,000 vaccinated 
persons). Hypoesthesia (decreased feeling or sensitivity in the skin) is 
already included as a side effect in the current product information. 
This assessment was finalised within the review of the six-month 
cumulative periodic safety update report submitted on 26 August 2021. The 
conclusion was based on worldwide spontaneously reported cases of 
paraesthesia that were considered to be unrelated to anxiety possibly 
caused by vaccination. These cases included 1,425 cases with a time-to-
onset after vaccination of at least 3 days and 56 cases that had a duration 
after vaccination of 7 days or longer (reported by 30 June 2021, by when 
more than 182,7 million doses of the vaccine had been administered 
worldwide). The conclusion was also based on clinical trial results, which 
reported a higher number of paraesthesia cases in people who received the 
vaccine (2 cases) than in those who received placebo (0 cases). 
Capillary leak syndrome  
Ongoing assessment 
In November 2021, PRAC started an assessment of reports of capillary leak 
syndrome (CLS) in people vaccinated with Spikevax (see safety update for 
Spikevax of 11 November 2021). CLS is a disorder characterised by leakage 
of fluid from blood vessels causing tissue swelling and a fall in blood 
pressure. In January 2022, PRAC assessed the data further. The 
investigation of whether Spikevax can cause CLS is still ongoing and will 
include an assessment of the most recent scientific literature.  
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Use of the vaccine in pregnancy                             
No sign of adverse outcomes 
A review of several studies involving around 65,000 pregnancies at different 
stages did not find any sign of an increased risk of pregnancy complications, 
miscarriages, preterm births or adverse effects in the unborn babies 
following vaccination with the mRNA vaccines Comirnaty and Spikevax. The 
review was conducted by EMA’s COVID-19 pandemic task force (ETF) and 
further information can be found in this EMA communication. 
Information on how Spikevax works is presented in the medicine overview 
(in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the vaccine, including all 
identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the 
product information (in all EU/EEA languages). The product information will 
be updated in accordance with the latest safety assessment outcomes. 
Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca AB) 
About 69 million doses of Vaxzevria were administered 
in the EU/EEA between EU marketing authorisation on 29 
January 2021 and 2 January 20221. 
Thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome 
Update to the product information 
Following the last update to the product information regarding the very rare 
side effect of thrombosis (formation of blood clots in the blood vessels) with 
thrombocytopenia (low blood platelets) syndrome (TTS) (see safety update 
for Vaxzevria of 8 September 2021), in January 2022 PRAC concluded that 
the product information should be updated further. This update will reflect 
that the majority of TTS cases were reported after the first, rather than the 
second, dose. Further information can be found in the PRAC highlights of 
January 2022.  
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Reminders: The administration of Vaxzevria is 
contraindicated in individuals who have experienced TTS 
following vaccination with this vaccine. 
People should seek immediate medical attention if they 
develop shortness of breath, chest pain, leg swelling, leg 
pain or persistent abdominal pain following vaccination, or 
experience after a few days following vaccination severe or 
persistent headaches, blurred vision, confusion or seizures 
(fits), or unexplained bleeding or skin bruising or pinpoint 
round spots beyond the site of vaccination which appears 
after a few days (see product information).    
Transverse myelitis 
Update to the product information 
In January 2022, PRAC concluded that transverse myelitis (TM) should be 
added to the product information as a side effect of Vaxzevria. TM is a 
neurological condition characterised by an inflammation in the spinal cord. 
The frequency category of this side effect will be ‘unknown frequency’, 
because it is generally difficult to robustly estimate side effect frequencies 
from cases of suspected side effects that have been reported by healthcare 
professionals or patients spontaneously. Further information can be found in 
the PRAC highlights of January 2022.  
People are advised to seek immediate medical attention if 
they develop weakness in the arms or legs, sensory 
symptoms (such as tingling, numbness, pain or loss of pain 
sensation) or problems with bladder or bowel function after 
vaccination. 
Information on how Vaxzevria works is presented in the medicine overview 
(in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the vaccine, including all 
identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the 
product information (in all EU/EEA languages). The product information will 
be updated in accordance with the latest safety assessment outcomes. 
2.  How safety is monitored 
Before COVID-19 vaccines were granted EU marketing authorisation, the 
efficacy and safety of the vaccines were assessed in pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
All relevant new information emerging worldwide on the vaccines since 
marketing authorisation is collected and promptly assessed. This is in line 
with the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
EMA’s detailed assessments take into account all available data from all 
sources to draw robust conclusions on the safety of the vaccines. These 
data include clinical trial results, reports of suspected side effects, 
epidemiological studies monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological 
investigations and any other relevant information. 
Summary safety reports 
The pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines includes monthly 
summary safety reports (MSSRs) which are compiled by the marketing 
authorisation holders to support timely and continuous benefit-risk 
evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. MSSRs are 
intended to be compiled for at least the first six months of marketing. After 
the first six months, summary safety reports may cover time periods longer 
than a month or not be necessary anymore. MSSRs/ summary safety 
reports  complement the submission of periodic safety update reports 
(PSURs). 
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system.  
Healthcare professionals and vaccinated individuals are encouraged to 
report to their national competent authorities all suspected side effects 
individuals may have experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is 
unclear whether the vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to 
report, including the importance of detailing the vaccine product name and 
the batch, see Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU database 
used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. Publicly available 
information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – European database of 
suspected drug reaction reports (in all EU/EEA languages).  
As of 2 January 2022, EudraVigilance contained: 
- for Comirnaty: a total of 522,530 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 6,490 of these reported a 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 8/10 
 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
fatal outcome2,3 (by the same date about 545 million doses of Comirnaty 
had been given to people in the EU/EEA1) 
- for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen: a total of 35,027 cases of suspected side 
effects spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 254 of these 
reported a fatal outcome2,3 (by the same date, about 18.7 million doses of 
had been administered to people in the EU/EEA1) 
- for Spikevax: a total of 124,410 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 685 of these reported a 
fatal outcome2,3 (by the same date, about 103 million doses of Spikevax 
had been given to people in the EU/EEA1) 
- for Vaxzevria: a total of 231,363 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 1,378 of these reported a 
fatal outcome2,3 (by the same date, about 69 million doses of Vaxzevria had 
been given to people in the EU/EEA1). 
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination does 
not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. This may 
have been caused, for example, by health problems not related to 
the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment.  
Planned and ongoing studies 
The companies that market COVID-19 vaccines continue to provide results 
from ongoing clinical trials. They also conduct additional studies to monitor 
the safety and effectiveness of the vaccines as they are used in vaccination 
campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned and ongoing 
safety studies with COVID-19 vaccines, see the respective risk management 
plan: Comirnaty, COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, Nuvaxovid, Spikevax, and 
Vaxzevria.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) is in place for each authorised COVID-
19 vaccine: Comirnaty, COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, Nuvaxovid, Spikevax, 
2 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
3 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side effect. 
As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case report, 
the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. Similarly, 
this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a fatal 
outcome. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 9/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
and Vaxzevria. The PIP describes how the company will collect data on the 
vaccine’s efficacy and safety for its potential use in children. Two vaccines, 
Comirnaty and Spikevax, are authorised for use in children. 
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member States 
looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the safety and 
effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant women.  
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 10/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
