5 February 2021  
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
COVID-19 VACCINE MODERNA 
Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L. 
This update presents the assessment of an 
investigation of reports of suspected severe 
allergic reaction coming from a single 
vaccination site in the United States. 
The assessment of these reports has not 
identified new aspects regarding the nature of 
this known side effect.  
The benefits of COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna in 
preventing COVID-19 continue to outweigh any 
risks, and there are no recommended changes 
regarding the use of the vaccine. 
Safety updates provide the outcomes of the assessment of emerging data 
since marketing authorisation for COVID-19 vaccines. The assessments 
are carried out by EMA’s safety committee (Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee [PRAC]). In addition, PRAC assesses promptly all 
other emerging data. The safety updates are published regularly at Post-
authorisation: Safety updates.  
All published safety updates for COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna are available 
at COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna: safety updates. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE MODERNA 
1.  Updates on safety of COVID-19 
Vaccine Moderna 
On 28 January 2021, PRAC discussed a review submitted by the 
marketing authorisation holder of reports of suspected severe allergic 
reaction after administration of COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna at a single 
vaccination site in the United States (US). The following was concluded by 
PRAC: 
Severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) 
Anaphylaxis is a known side effect of COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna.  
Several anaphylaxis cases were reported as a cluster during vaccination in 
January 2021 at a site in San Diego, California, US with vaccine from the 
production lot 041L20A. PRAC discussed the marketing authorisation 
holder’s review of these cases.  
It was noted that following investigations the responsible US authorities 
did not identify a quality defect and allowed vaccination with the lot in 
question to resume1. In addition, a US analysis of anaphylaxis after 
administration of first doses of COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna estimated the 
frequency to be 2.5 cases per million doses administered, based on 
anaphylaxis cases reported between 21 December 2020 and 10 January 
20212.   
Information on the product quality of the lot 041L20A was provided by the 
marketing authorisation holder and assessed by the EU regulatory 
network as consistent with the previous vaccine lots and within the quality 
specifications.  
Based on the current information, no new safety concern regarding 
anaphylaxis was identified for COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna.      
PRAC requested the marketing authorisation holder to continue reviewing 
all anaphylaxis cases for further assessment by the committee as part of 
the assessment of the company’s upcoming first Summary Monthly Safety 
Report. 
Information on managing the risk of anaphylaxis is already available in 
the product information. The product information also includes instructions 
for healthcare professionals to record the name and batch number of the 
administered vaccine to ensure traceability.  
1 California Department of Public Health. California State Epidemiologist Issues Update on 
Moderna COVID-19 Vaccine. 20 January 2021. Accessible at: 
https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/OPA/Pages/NR21-025.aspx 
2 Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) COVID-19 Response Team, Food and 
Drug Administration: Allergic Reactions Including Anaphylaxis After Receipt of the First 
Dose of Moderna COVID-19 Vaccine: United States, December 21, 2020 - January 10, 
2021. MMWR. 2021; 70 (4): 125-129 (epub 22 Jan 2021). 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/4 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE MODERNA 
2.  Other information for COVID-19 
Vaccine Moderna 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna is a vaccine that has been authorised in the 
European Union (EU) for use in people aged 18 years and older to prevent 
development of COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-
2. COVID-19 is a potentially severe disease that may result in death. 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna contains a molecule called mRNA, which the 
body uses to temporarily produce the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The 
mRNA is broken down shortly after vaccination. The spike protein does not 
cause COVID-19.  
Before COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna was granted a marketing authorisation 
in the EU on 6 January 2021, the efficacy and safety of the vaccine were 
assessed through pre-clinical studies and large clinical trials. More than 
14,000 participants have been given the vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna are usually mild or moderate and get better 
within a few days after vaccination. 
More information on how COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna works and its use is 
available in the medicine overview. This includes information on use in 
pregnant and breastfeeding women and immunocompromised individuals. 
Information in all EU/EEA languages is available in the product 
information, which includes the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
3.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, all relevant new information emerging on 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in 
line with the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network. 
Collecting suspected side effects 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors reports of suspected 
side effects observed in vaccinated individuals. These reports are collected 
and recorded in EudraVigilance, a system operated by EMA for managing 
and analysing information on suspected adverse reactions to medicines. 
Vaccinated individuals and healthcare professionals should report 
suspected side effects via the national reporting systems. For more 
information, see Reporting side effects. Information on how to report side 
effects in your Member State is available in the package leaflet and the list 
of national competent authorities. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/4 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE MODERNA 
You may visit EudraVigilance – European database of suspected drug 
reaction reports and search for “COVID-19 MRNA VACCINE MODERNA 
(CX-024414)” to see all suspected side effects reported for COVID-19 
Vaccine Moderna. Please note that these reports describe suspected side 
effects in individuals, i.e. these events may not necessarily have been 
caused or otherwise be related to the vaccine. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna will continue to 
provide results from the main clinical trial, which is ongoing for up to two 
years, and will conduct additional studies to monitor the safety and 
effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used in vaccination campaigns and 
other clinical practice. For the list of planned or ongoing safety studies for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna, see the risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna is in 
place. This describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s 
efficacy and safety for its potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/4 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
