6 October 2022 Rev.11 
COVID-19 vaccines 
safety update  
Comirnaty (BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH) 
COVID-19 Vaccine Valneva (Valneva Austria GmbH) 
Jcovden (Janssen-Cilag International NV) 
Nuvaxovid (Novavax CZ, a.s.) 
Spikevax (Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L.) 
Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca AB) 
Update as of 1 December 2023 
COVID-19 Vaccine Valneva was withdrawn from the EU market at the request of 
the company for commercial reasons. The withdrawal does not affect the 
information provided in this safety update. 
The safety of authorised COVID-19 vaccines is continuously monitored, and 
updated information is regularly provided to the public.  
Safety updates outline the outcomes from assessments of emerging 
worldwide safety data carried out mainly by EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee (PRAC) (section 1). They also outline how safety is 
monitored and contain high-level information on suspected adverse reaction 
reports, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (section 2).  
This safety update follows the update of 8 September 2022 and reflects the 
main assessment outcomes of the PRAC meeting held 26 to 29 September 
2022. 
EMA confirms that the benefits of all currently authorised COVID-19 
vaccines continue to outweigh their side effects, given the risk of COVID-19 
illness and related complications, including hospitalisation and death.  
1 This document was updated on 1 December 2023 to include a statement on the 
withdrawal of COVID-19 Vaccine Valneva. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Key messages from the latest safety 
assessments 
For Jcovden, an update to the product information has 
been recommended to add facial paralysis (temporary 
facial drooping), including Bell’s palsy, as a rare side 
effect (i.e. occurring in less than 1 in 1,000 persons). 
1.  Latest safety assessments 
Comirnaty (BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH) 
There are no safety updates for Comirnaty. 
About 665 million doses of Comirnaty, including about 
55.6 million doses in children and adolescents (below 
18 years of age), were administered in the EU/EEA from 
authorisation to 28 August 2022.2 
The initial conditional marketing authorisation for Comirnaty in the EU was 
issued on 21 December 2020. Information on how Comirnaty works is 
provided in the medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages). Full 
information on the vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on 
how to use it, is available in the product information (in all EU/EEA 
languages).  
COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, adjuvanted) 
Valneva (Valneva Austria GmbH) 
There are no safety updates for COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, 
adjuvanted) Valneva. 
By 28 August 2022, COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, adjuvanted) Valneva 
had not yet been used in the EU/EEA1; however, use may have started after 
this date. 
The initial, standard marketing authorisation for COVID-19 Vaccine 
(inactivated, adjuvanted) Valneva in the EU was issued on 24 June 2022. 
Information on how COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, adjuvanted) Valneva 
2 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.  
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/8 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
works is provided in the medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages); full 
information on the vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on 
how to use it, is available in the product information (in all EU/EEA 
languages). 
Jcovden (Janssen-Cilag International NV) 
Facial paralysis 
Update to the product information  
PRAC concluded an assessment for Jcovden with a recommendation to 
update the product information by adding facial paralysis (temporary facial 
drooping, usually one-sided), including Bell’s palsy, as a side effect. Based 
on clinical trial data, this side effect was considered to be rare (i.e. 
occurring in less than 1 in 1,000 persons).  
About 19.4 million doses of Jcovden in adults were 
administered in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 28 August 
2022.3 
The initial conditional marketing authorisation for Jcovden (previously 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen) in the EU was issued on 11 March 2021. 
Information on how Jcovden works is provided in the medicine overview (in 
all EU/EEA languages); full information on the vaccine, including all 
identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the 
product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
Nuvaxovid (Novavax CZ, a.s.) 
There are no safety updates for Nuvaxovid.  
About 271,000 doses of Nuvaxovid in adults, and none 
in adolescents (below 18 years of age), were 
administered in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 28 August 
2022.2 
The initial conditional marketing authorisation for Nuvaxovid in the EU was 
issued on 20 December 2021. Information on how Nuvaxovid works is 
3 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/8 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
provided in the medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages); full 
information on the vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on 
how to use it, is available in the product information (in all EU/EEA 
languages). 
Spikevax (Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L.)  
Urticaria 
Assessment ongoing  
An assessment of the potential hypersensitivity reaction urticaria (hives 
[raised, red and itchy skin rash]) with Spikevax remains ongoing.    
Hypersensitivity (allergic reactions in general) is already included in the 
product information. 
About 158 million doses of Spikevax, including about 
3.1 million doses in children and adolescents (below 
18 years of age), were administered in the EU/EEA from 
authorisation to 28 August 2022.4 
The initial conditional marketing authorisation for Spikevax (previously 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna) in the EU was issued on 06 January 2021; 
following an assessment process, it was converted into a standard 
marketing authorisation on 3 October 2022. Information on how Spikevax 
works is provided in the medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages). Full 
information on the vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on 
how to use it, is available in the product information (in all EU/EEA 
languages). 
4 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/8 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca AB)  
There are no safety updates for Vaxzevria. 
About 69 million doses of Vaxzevria in adults were 
administered in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 28 August 
2022.5 
The initial conditional marketing authorisation for Vaxzevria (previously 
COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca) in the EU was issued on 29 January 2021. 
Information on how Vaxzevria works is provided in the medicine overview 
(in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the vaccine, including all 
identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the 
product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
2.  How safety is monitored 
Before COVID-19 vaccines were granted EU marketing authorisation, the 
efficacy and safety of the vaccines were assessed in pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. 
All relevant new information emerging worldwide on the vaccines since 
marketing authorisation is collected and promptly assessed. This is in line 
with the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
EMA’s detailed assessments take into account all available data from all 
sources to draw robust conclusions on the safety of the vaccines. These 
data include clinical trial results, reports of suspected side effects, 
epidemiological studies monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological 
investigations and any other relevant information. 
Summary safety reports 
The pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines includes monthly 
summary safety reports (MSSRs) which are compiled by the marketing 
authorisation holders to support timely and continuous benefit-risk 
evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. MSSRs are 
intended to be compiled in the first months of marketing. Afterwards, 
summary safety reports may cover time periods longer than a month or 
5 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/8 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
may not be necessary anymore. Summary safety reports complement 
periodic safety update reports (PSURs).  
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system.  
Healthcare professionals and vaccinated individuals are encouraged to 
report to their national competent authorities all suspected side effects 
individuals may have experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is 
unclear whether the vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to 
report, including the importance of detailing the vaccine product name and 
the batch, see Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU database 
used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. Publicly available 
information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – European database of 
suspected drug reaction reports (in all EU/EEA languages).  
As of 11 September 2022, EudraVigilance contained the following: 
•  Comirnaty: a total of 919,242 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 8,237 of these reported 
a fatal outcome6,7 (by 28 August 2022, about 665 million doses of 
Comirnaty had been given to people in the EU/EEA8); 
•  COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, adjuvanted) Valneva: 1 case of 
suspected side effects spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 
there was no fatal outcome5,6 (by 28 August 2022, the vaccine had not 
yet been used in the EU/EEA7; however, use may have started after this 
date); 
• 
Jcovden: a total of 57,567 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 333 of these reported a 
fatal outcome5,6 (by 28 August 2022, about 19.4 million doses of 
Jcovden had been administered to people in the EU/EEA7); 
•  Nuvaxovid: a total of 1,319 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; none of these reported 
a fatal outcome5,6 (by 28 August 2022, about 271,000 doses of 
6 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland).  
7 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side effect. 
As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case report, 
the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. Similarly, 
this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a fatal 
outcome. 
8 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/8 
 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Nuvaxovid had been administered to people in the EU/EEA9); 
•  Spikevax: a total of 252,725 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 1,129 of these reported 
a fatal outcome10,11 (by 28 August 2022, about 158 million doses of 
Spikevax had been given to people in the EU/EEA8); 
•  Vaxzevria: a total of 315,312 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 1,566 of these reported 
a fatal outcome9,10 (by 28 August 2022, about 69 million doses of 
Vaxzevria had been given to people in the EU/EEA8). 
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination does 
not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. This may 
have been caused, for example, by health problems not related to 
the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment.  
Planned and ongoing studies 
The companies that market COVID-19 vaccines continue to provide results 
from ongoing clinical trials. They also conduct additional studies to monitor 
the safety and effectiveness of the vaccines as they are used in vaccination 
campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned and ongoing 
safety studies with COVID-19 vaccines, see the respective risk management 
plan (RMP): Comirnaty, COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, adjuvanted) 
Valneva, Jcovden, Nuvaxovid, Spikevax and Vaxzevria.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) is in place for each authorised COVID-
19 vaccine: Comirnaty, COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, adjuvanted) 
Valneva, Jcovden, Nuvaxovid, Spikevax and Vaxzevria. The PIP describes 
how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s efficacy and safety for its 
potential use in children and adolescents (below 18 years of age). Three 
vaccines are authorised in the EU for use in children and adolescents: 
9 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
10 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland).  
11 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side effect. 
As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case report, 
the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. Similarly, 
this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a fatal 
outcome. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/8 
 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Comirnaty (as of 5 years), Nuvaxovid (as of 12 years) and Spikevax (as of 
6 years).  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member States 
looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the safety and 
effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant women. 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 8/8 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
