29 March 2021  
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
COVID-19 VACCINE MODERNA 
Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L. 
The latest safety data for this vaccine are in 
line with the known benefit-risk profile; the 
outcomes of the assessments are presented in 
this update. 
The benefits of COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna in 
preventing COVID-19 continue to outweigh the 
risks, and there are no recommended changes 
regarding the use of this vaccine. 
Safety updates provide the outcomes of the assessment of emerging data 
since marketing authorisation for COVID-19 vaccines. The assessments 
are carried out by EMA’s safety committee (Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee [PRAC]). The safety updates are published 
regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: authorised.  
All published safety updates for COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna are available 
at COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna: safety updates. 
This safety update follows the last update of 4 March 2021. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE MODERNA 
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 6 January 
2021 until 25 March 2021, more than 3 million doses of COVID-19 Vaccine 
Moderna have been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
1.  Updates on safety of COVID-19 
Vaccine Moderna 
On 25 March 2021, PRAC assessed all new safety data emerging 
worldwide, including the latest Summary Monthly Safety Report2 from the 
marketing authorisation holder, and concluded that the benefit-risk 
balance of COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna remains positive.  
Specifically, the following was concluded by PRAC in relation to:  
Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) 
For all COVID-19 vaccines used in the EU, a specific PRAC assessment of 
immune thrombocytopenia (ITP, low blood platelet levels that can lead to 
bruising and bleeding) as a suspected side effect has been initiated. At 
this stage of the assessment, a causal association of ITP with any COVID-
19 vaccine has not been established3. 
2.  Other information for COVID-19 
Vaccine Moderna 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna was authorised in the EU on 6 January 2021 
for use in people aged 18 years and older to prevent COVID-19 when 
infected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a potentially 
severe disease that may result in death. 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna contains a molecule called mRNA, which the 
body uses to temporarily produce the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The 
mRNA is broken down shortly after vaccination. The spike protein does not 
cause COVID-19.  
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these data 
from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 Summary Monthly Safety Reports will be compiled by the marketing authorisation 
holders for COVID-19 vaccines to support timely and continuous benefit-risk evaluations. 
These reports complement the submission of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
3 See Meeting Highlights from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
8-11 March 2021. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/4 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE MODERNA 
Before COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna was granted an EU marketing 
authorisation, the efficacy and safety of the vaccine were assessed 
through pre-clinical studies and large clinical trials. More than 14,000 
participants have been given the vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna are usually mild or moderate and get better 
within a few days after vaccination. 
More information on how COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna works and its use is 
available in the medicine overview. This includes information on use in 
pregnant and breastfeeding women and immunocompromised individuals. 
Information in all EU/EEA languages is available in the product 
information, which includes the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
3.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in 
line with the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
Collecting case reports of suspected side effects 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors reports of suspected 
side effects observed in vaccinated individuals. These case reports are 
collected and recorded in EudraVigilance, a system operated by EMA for 
managing and analysing information on suspected side effects of 
medicines. 
Vaccinated individuals and healthcare professionals should report 
suspected side effects via the national reporting systems, which also 
contribute to EudraVigilance. For more information, see Reporting side 
effects. Information on how to report side effects in your Member State is 
available in the package leaflet and the list of national competent 
authorities. 
You may visit EudraVigilance – European database of suspected drug 
reaction reports and search for “COVID-19 MRNA VACCINE MODERNA 
(CX-024414)” to see all suspected side effects reported for COVID-19 
Vaccine Moderna in the EU/EEA. Please note that these reports describe 
suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. these events may not necessarily 
have been caused by, or be otherwise related to, the vaccine. 
By 22 March 2021, 4 550 cases of suspected side effects reported for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna from the EU/EEA had been included and 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/4 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE MODERNA 
monitored in EudraVigilance, relating to around 2.6 million doses 
administered4.   
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna will continue to 
provide results from the main clinical trial, which is ongoing for up to two 
years. It will also conduct additional studies to monitor the safety and 
effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used in vaccination campaigns and 
other clinical practice. For the list of planned and ongoing safety studies 
for COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna, see the risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna is in 
place. This describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s 
efficacy and safety for its potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
4 See EMA Public stakeholder meeting: approval, safety monitoring and impact of COVID-
19 vaccines in the EU on 26 March 2021. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/4 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
