8 September 2021 corr1 
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
VAXZEVRIA 
AstraZeneca AB 
The safety of Vaxzevria is continuously monitored and safety updates are 
regularly provided to the public. This document outlines the outcomes 
from the assessment of emerging worldwide safety data carried out by 
EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) (see section 
1). It also contains high-level information from the reporting of suspected 
adverse reactions, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (see 
section 2). 
This safety update follows the update of 11 August 2021. 
Main outcomes from PRAC's latest 
safety assessment 
The product information will be updated with 
Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) as a side effect 
of Vaxzevria.  
Pain in legs and arms or stomach and 
influenza-like symptoms have also been 
included in the product information as side 
effects.   
1 Correction was made on page 6 reflecting MHRAs assessment on case reports of 
menstrual disorders. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
The safety updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: 
authorised. All published safety updates for Vaxzevria are available at 
Vaxzevria: safety updates.  
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 29 
January 2021 until 2 September 2021, more than 68.4 million doses of 
Vaxzevria have been administered in the EU/EEA2. 
More than 68.4 million 
doses administered in EEA 
1.  Updates on safety assessments for 
Vaxzevria 
PRAC assessed new safety data, including the latest Monthly Summary 
Safety Report (MSSR)3 from the marketing authorisation holder and data 
reported by patients and healthcare professionals to EudraVigilance (see 
section 2), during its meeting held 30 August to 2 September 2021.  
Guillain-Barré syndrome  
Update to the Vaxzevria product information 
A warning to raise awareness of cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) 
reported following vaccination was included in the product information of 
Vaxzevria following PRAC in July 20214.  
GBS is a serious nerve inflammation, which may cause temporary loss of 
feeling and movement (paralysis) and difficulty breathing. 
PRAC has been keeping GBS under close monitoring and in September 
2021 assessed additional data requested from the marketing authorisation 
holder and the results from a scientific literature review. A total of 833 
cases of GBS had been reported with Vaxzevria worldwide by 31 July 
2021, while around 592 million doses of Vaxzevria had been given to 
people worldwide by 25 July 2021. Reported cases concern suspected side 
2 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
3 Monthly Summary Safety Reports, also referred to as pandemic summary safety 
reports, will be compiled by the marketing authorisation holders to support timely and 
continuous benefit-risk evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. 
These reports complement the submission of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
4 See safety update for Vaxzevria of 14 July 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/10 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
effects, i.e. medical events that have been observed after vaccination, but 
which are not necessarily related to or caused by the vaccine. 
Based on the assessment of these data and taking into account 
neurological expert advice, PRAC concluded that a causal relationship 
between Vaxzevria and GBS is considered at least a reasonable possibility 
and that GBS should therefore be added to the product information as a 
side effect of Vaxzevria. The frequency category allocated is ‘very rare’ 
(i.e. occurring in less than 1 in 10,000 persons), which is the category of 
the lowest frequency foreseen in EU product information. Further, PRAC 
recommended to update the existing warning in the package leaflet with 
the following advice: 
Patients are asked to talk to their healthcare professionals before they are 
given Vaxzevria if they previously had GBS after being given Vaxzevria.  
Reminder: People should seek immediate medical attention if they develop 
weakness and paralysis in the extremities that can progress to the chest 
and face. 
Capillary leak syndrome (CLS) 
No further update to the Vaxzevria product information at present 
In June 2021, capillary leak syndrome (CLS) was identified as a side effect 
of Vaxzevria and the product information was updated. 
Capillary leak syndrome is a very rare, serious condition that causes fluid 
leakage from small blood vessels (capillaries) and is potentially fatal5.  
In September 2021, PRAC further assessed hypotheses of a possible 
mechanism of action for the development of CLS following vaccination. 
Having assessed the available data, including from a review of the 
scientific literature, PRAC concluded that no definitive mechanism could be 
identified. While this assessment procedure was closed, data which may 
emerge in the future will be monitored and assessed as part of the MSSR 
and PSUR processes for Vaxzevria.   
Reminder: People who have a previous diagnosis of CLS must not be 
vaccinated with Vaxzevria (contraindication) and people should seek 
immediate medical attention if they experience rapid swelling of the arms 
and legs, sudden weight gain and feeling faint (low blood pressure) in the 
days following vaccination with Vaxzevria.   
Thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome 
(TTS) 
Update to the Vaxzevria product information  
5 See safety update for Vaxzevria of 18 June 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/10 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
In May 2021, the product information of Vaxzevria was updated with 
regard to the very rare risk of thrombosis (formation of blood clots in the 
blood vessels) with thrombocytopenia (low blood platelets) syndrome 
(TTS)6.  
Data on TTS are kept under close monitoring for further characterisation 
of risk factors7. In September 2021, PRAC concluded to further update the 
product information by removing the current statement that reported TSS 
cases occurred mostly in women under 60 years of age, since the age and 
sex imbalance seemed smaller than previously observed. 
This conclusion is based on the latest analyses of spontaneously reported 
TTS cases which include 43% of the cases in males and 37% in vaccinated 
persons older than 60 years, and on data analyses in the scientific 
literature8 which did not identify a large difference of TTS cases by sex. A 
total of 1,503 cases had been reported worldwide as of 31 July 2021, 
while around 592 million doses of Vaxzevria had been given to people 
worldwide by 25 July 2021. Reported cases concern suspected side 
effects, i.e. medical events that have been observed after vaccination, but 
which are not necessarily related to or caused by the vaccine.      
Close monitoring and risk characterisation of TTS will continue as part of 
the MSSR and PSUR processes for Vaxzevria.  
Reminder: People should seek immediate medical attention if they 
experience severe or persistent headache, blurred vision, confusion, 
seizures, shortness of breath, chest pain, leg swelling, leg pain, persistent 
abdominal pain, unusual skin bruising or pinpoint round spots beyond the 
site of vaccination within three weeks of vaccination, as these could be 
signs of TTS.    
Cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) 
without thrombocytopenia  
Assessment ongoing 
In the context of its regular reviews of the MSSRs, PRAC is assessing 
cases of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST, a rare form of stroke 
where a blood clot forms in the brain’s venous sinuses) without 
thrombocytopenia (low levels of blood platelets) reported after vaccination 
with Vaxzevria. PRAC has requested the marketing authorisation holder to 
provide further data in the next MSSR.  
Multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS) 
6 See safety update for Vaxzevria of 11 May 2021 
7 See Article 5(3) procedure for Vaxzevria in April 2021 
8 Arepally GM, Ortel TL. Vaccine-induced immune thrombotic thrombocytopenia: what we know and 
do not know. Blood. 2021; 138: 293-298. Epub 2021 Jun 1. and Pavord S, Scully M, Hunt BJ, Lester W, 
Bagot C, Craven B, Rampotas A, Ambler G, Makris M. Clinical features of vaccine-induced immune 
thrombocytopenia and thrombosis. N Engl J Med. 2021 Aug 11 (Epub ahead of print). 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/10 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
Assessment ongoing 
PRAC is assessing whether there is a risk of multisystem inflammatory 
syndrome (MIS) with COVID-19 vaccines following a report of MIS with 
Comirnaty, another COVID-19 vaccine, in Denmark. Some cases of MIS 
after administering Comirnaty or other COVID-19 vaccines were reported 
in adults and/or from outside EU/EEA. Reported cases concern suspected 
side effects, i.e. medical events that have been observed after 
vaccination, but which are not necessarily related to or caused by the 
vaccine. 
MIS is a serious inflammatory condition affecting many parts of the body 
and symptoms can include tiredness, persistent severe fever, diarrhoea, 
vomiting, stomach pain, headache, chest pain and difficulty breathing. 
MIS is rare and its incidence rate before the COVID-19 pandemic 
estimated from 5 European countries was around 2 to 6 cases per 
100,000 per year in children and adolescents below 20 years of age and 
less than 2 cases per 100,000 per year in adults aged 20 years or above 
[data from observational studies coordinated by EMA (see section 2)]9. 
MIS has also been reported following COVID-19 disease. The Danish 
patient, however, had no history of COVID-19.  
As of 19 August 2021, no cases were reported as MIS in a child after 
vaccination with Vaxzevria in the EEA/EU to EudraVigilance (for 
information on EudraVigilance, see section 2).  
PRAC will now assess the available data on MIS to determine whether the 
condition can be caused by COVID-19 vaccines and recommend whether 
any changes to the product information are needed.  
PRAC encourages all healthcare professionals to report any cases of MIS 
and other adverse events in people who have had these vaccines (for 
advice on reporting, see section 2).  
At this stage, there is no change to the current EU recommendations for 
the use of COVID-19 vaccines. 
EMA and national authorities will provide further updates as necessary10. 
Menstrual disorders  
No evidence for causal relationship with Vaxzevria 
PRAC assessed reported cases of menstrual disorders occurring after 
vaccination with Vaxzevria and a review of the scientific literature, 
including non-clinical studies. Until 31 July 2021, a total of 12,410 cases 
had been reported worldwide, of which 663 (5.3%) were medically 
confirmed as menstrual disorder (511 in pre-menopausal and 89 in post-
9 See European Network of Centres for Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacovigilance 
(ENCePP)  
10 See Meeting Highlights from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee 
(PRAC) 30 August - 2 September 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/10 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
menopausal women; 242 medically confirmed events were classified as 
serious). These reports emerged from worldwide Vaxzevria use of around 
592 million administered doses by 25 July 2021. Reported cases concern 
suspected side effects, i.e. medical events that have been observed after 
vaccination, but which are not necessarily related to or caused by the 
vaccine. 
The assessment - conducted with gynaecological expert advice - included 
analysing the type of symptoms, their time to onset, duration and 
outcome as well as any concomitant treatment and medical history; no 
common pattern could be identified. Also, no potential mechanism of 
action for the vaccine causing symptoms of menstrual disorder could be 
identified.   
PRAC also considered the assessment of the Medicines & Healthcare 
products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the United Kingdom (UK) of 
August 2021, which concluded that the number of case reports in the UK 
were low in relation to both the number of vaccinated women and how 
common menstrual disorders are generally, that the symptoms were 
transient and that the data did not support a causal link between changes 
to menstrual periods and the COVID-19 vaccines available in the UK, 
including Vaxzevria11. 
Based on the assessment of all data, PRAC concluded that there is no 
evidence suggesting a causal relationship of the reported menstrual 
disorders with Vaxzevria. 
Menstrual disorders are very common in the general population and can 
occur without an underlying medical condition. Causes can range from 
stress and tiredness to conditions such as fibroids and endometriosis.     
Women experiencing unexpected vaginal bleeding (e.g. in 
postmenopausal women) or who are concerned about prolonged or severe 
menstrual disturbances may want to seek medical advice. 
Other events: Pain and influenza-like symptoms 
Update to the Vaxzevria product information  
In the context of an ongoing review of clinical trial data, pain in the 
extremity (legs and arms), abdominal (stomach) pain and influenza-like 
symptoms (such as high temperature, sore throat, runny nose, cough and 
chills) were added as side effects to the product information of Vaxzevria, 
following the outcome of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human 
Use (CHMP) of June 202112. Pain in the extremity and influenza-like 
symptoms occur with a frequency of common (i.e. occurring in less than 1 
11 For the latest UK data, see Coronavirus vaccine – weekly summary of Yellow Card 
reporting 
12 See minutes of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use meeting in June 
2021   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/10 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
in 10 persons) and abdominal pain with a frequency of uncommon (i.e. 
occurring in less than 1 in 100 persons). 
2.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
Vaxzevria is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission). 
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system. Healthcare professionals and 
vaccinated individuals are encouraged to report to their national 
competent authorities all suspected side effects individuals may have 
experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is unclear whether the 
vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to report, see 
Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU 
database used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. 
Publicly available information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – 
European database of suspected drug reaction reports in all EU/EEA 
languages. Search for “COVID-19 VACCINE ASTRAZENECA 
(CHADOX1 NCOV-19)” to see all suspected side effect cases reported for 
Vaxzevria. 
As of 2 September 2021, a total of 184,679 cases of suspected side 
effects with Vaxzevria were spontaneously reported to EudraVigilance 
from EU/EEA countries; 1,149 of these reported a fatal outcome13,14. By 
the same date, more than 68.4 million doses of Vaxzevria had been given 
to people in the EU/EEA15.  
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
13 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland 
(EU reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
14 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side 
effects. As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case 
report, the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. 
Similarly, this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a 
fatal outcome. 
15 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/10 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination 
does not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. 
This may have been caused, for example, by health problems not 
related to the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment. EMA’s detailed assessments take into 
account all available data from all sources to draw a robust conclusion on 
the safety of the vaccine. These data include clinical trial results, reports 
of suspected side effects in EudraVigilance, epidemiological studies 
monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological investigations and any 
other relevant information. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets Vaxzevria will continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trials, which are ongoing. It will also conduct additional 
studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used 
in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned 
and ongoing safety studies for Vaxzevria, see the risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Vaxzevria is in place. This 
describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
3.  Other information for Vaxzevria 
Vaxzevria (previously COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca) is a vaccine that 
was authorised in the EU on 29 January 2021 for use in people aged 18 
years and older to prevent COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus 
SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a potentially severe disease that may result in 
death. 
Vaxzevria contains an adenovirus that has been modified to carry 
molecules of DNA, which the body uses to temporarily produce the SARS-
CoV-2 spike protein. The spike protein does not cause COVID-19. The 
adenovirus cannot reproduce and does not cause viral disease. 
Before Vaxzevria was granted an EU marketing authorisation, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. More than 12,000 participants had been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 8/10 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
Vaxzevria are usually mild or moderate and get better within a few days 
after vaccination. 
More information on how Vaxzevria works and its use is available in all 
EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes information on 
use in pregnant and breastfeeding women and immunocompromised 
individuals. 
The full product information with the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 9/10 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 10/10 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
