6 October 2021  
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
COMIRNATY 
BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH 
The safety of Comirnaty is continuously monitored and safety updates are 
regularly provided to the public. This document outlines the outcomes 
from the assessment of emerging worldwide safety data carried out by 
EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) (see section 
1). It also contains high-level information from the reporting of suspected 
adverse reactions, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (see 
section 2). 
This safety update follows the update of 8 September 2021. 
Main outcomes from PRAC's latest 
safety assessment 
Erythema multiforme (red spots/patches on the 
skin) and unusual or decreased feeling in the 
skin will be added to the product information as 
side effects of Comirnaty. 
The safety updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: 
authorised. All published safety updates for Comirnaty are available at 
Comirnaty: safety updates.   
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) 
on 21 December 2020 until 30 September 2021, more than 420 
million doses of Comirnaty have been administered in the 
EU/EEA1. 
More than 420 million 
doses administered in EEA 
1.  Updates on safety assessments for 
Comirnaty 
During its meeting held 27 to 30 September 2021, PRAC assessed new 
safety data (see section 2 ‘How safety is monitored’). 
Erythema multiforme 
Update to the Comirnaty product information  
PRAC continued its assessment of whether erythema multiforme (EM) may 
be a side effect of Comirnaty.  
EM is a skin reaction that causes red spots or patches on the skin, that 
may look like a target or "bulls-eye" with a dark red centre surrounded by 
paler red rings. 
124 cases had been spontaneously reported as EM worldwide to 
EudraVigilance (see section 2) as of 31 July 2021 (around 918 million 
doses of Comirnaty were estimated to have been administered worldwide 
by 31 July 2021). In 2 cases EM was ruled out, and in 41 cases the 
information provided was too limited for assessment. In 26 of the reported 
cases, EM was reported in close temporal association with the vaccination 
without apparent plausible alternative explanations for the event. 
Spontaneously reported cases concern suspected side effects, i.e. medical 
events that have been observed after vaccination, but which are not 
necessarily related to or caused by the vaccine. 
Based on these case reports and the fact that there is a plausible 
mechanism for how the vaccine may cause EM, PRAC concluded that the 
product information should be updated to include EM as a side effect of 
Comirnaty. The frequency category will be ‘unknown frequency’, because 
it is generally difficult to robustly estimate side effect frequencies from 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/8 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
cases of suspected side effects that have been reported spontaneously by 
healthcare professionals or patients. 
Paraesthesia and hypoesthesia 
Update to the Comirnaty product information 
PRAC concluded that paraesthesia (unusual feeling in the skin, such as 
tingling or a crawling sensation) and hypoesthesia (decreased feeling or 
sensitivity in the skin) should be added to the product information as side 
effects of Comirnaty.  
This conclusion was based on a total of 21,793 paraesthesia and/or 
hypoesthesia cases spontaneously reported worldwide to EudraVigilance 
(see section 2) by 12 August 2021 (around 1,220 million doses of 
Comirnaty were estimated to have been administered worldwide by 31 
August 2021). Spontaneously reported cases concern suspected side 
effects, i.e. medical events that have been observed after vaccination, but 
which are not necessarily related to or caused by the vaccine. Of the 
reported cases of paraesthesia or hypoesthesia, approximately 75% 
occurred within the day after vaccination.  
Other events: Asthenia, lethargy, decreased 
appetite and (nocturnal) hyperhidrosis 
Update to the Comirnaty product information 
In the context of the review of clinical trial data by the Committee for 
Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)2, asthenia (lack of energy or 
strength), lethargy (state of indifference and inactivity), decreased 
appetite and (nocturnal [nighttime]) hyperhidrosis (excessive sweating) 
have been added as side effects to the product information of Comirnaty. 
The frequency category for these events is ‘uncommon’ (i.e. occurring in 
less than 1 in 100 persons). 
Menstrual disorders  
No evidence for causal relationship with Comirnaty 
PRAC assessed cases reported as menstrual disorders occurring after 
vaccination with Comirnaty.  
Until 30 August 2021, a total of 16,263 cases had been reported 
worldwide (16,226 as spontaneous reports; 6,118 as serious), of which 
1,665 (10.2%) were medically confirmed by a healthcare professional as 
menstrual disorder (around 1,220 million doses of Comirnaty were 
estimated to have been administered worldwide by 31 August 2021). 
Spontaneously reported cases concern suspected side effects, i.e. medical 
2 See safety update for Comirnaty of 14 July 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/8 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
events that have been observed after vaccination, but which are not 
necessarily related to or caused by the vaccine.  
The assessment of all cases included an analysis of the type of symptoms 
and their time to onset; no specific pattern of menstrual cycle 
disturbances could be identified. In about half of the cases, past or current 
relevant medical conditions or concurrent medication were considered 
plausible explanations for menstrual disorders. An observed-to-expected 
(O/E) analysis for the 6,050 cases reported as ‘heavy menstrual bleeding’ 
(which was the most frequently reported disorder at 34.7%) resulted in an 
O/E ratio below 1; this means the number of cases reported after 
vaccination in relevant time windows was below the number of events 
expected to occur in an unvaccinated female population of the same size 
(based on observational data collected from the general population).   
Based on the assessment of all data, PRAC concluded that there is 
currently no evidence suggesting a causal relationship of menstrual 
disorders with Comirnaty. 
Menstrual disorders are very common in the general population and can 
occur without an underlying medical condition. Causes can range from 
stress and tiredness to conditions such as fibroids and endometriosis.     
An assessment carried out in August 2021 by the Medicines & Healthcare 
products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the United Kingdom (UK) also 
concluded that the number of case reports in the UK were low in relation 
to both the number of vaccinated women and how common menstrual 
disorders are generally, that the symptoms were transient and that the 
data did not support a causal link between changes to menstrual periods 
and the COVID-19 vaccines available in the UK, including Comirnaty3. 
Glomerulonephritis and nephrotic syndrome 
Close monitoring continues 
Following a small number of cases after vaccination with Comirnaty 
reported in the medical literature4, PRAC continued its assessment of 
whether glomerulonephritis (inflammation of tiny filters in the kidneys) 
3 For the latest UK data, see Coronavirus vaccine – weekly summary of Yellow Card 
reporting 
4 D’Agati et al. Minimal change disease and acute kidney injury following the Pfizer-
BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. Kidney Int. 2021.; Lebedev et al. Minimal change disease 
following the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. Am J Kidney Dis. 2021.; 
Kervella et al. Minimal change disease relapse following SARS-CoV-2 mRNA vaccine. 
Kidney Int. 2021.; Komaba et al. Relapse of minimal change disease following the Pfizer-
BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine, Am J Kidney Dis. 2021.; Maas et al. An additional case of 
minimal change disease following the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine. Am J Kidney 
Dis. 2021.; Mancianiti et al. Minimal change disease following vaccination for 
SARS‑CoV‑2. Journal of Nephrology. 2021.; Rahim et al. A case of gross hematuria and 
IgA nephropathy flare-up following SARS-CoV-2 vaccination. Kidney Int. 2021.; 
Schwotzer et al. Letter regarding “Minimal change disease relapse following SARS-CoV-2 
mRNA vaccine”. Kidney Int. 2021.; Tan et al. Is COVID-19 vaccination unmasking 
glomerulonephritis? Kidney Int. 2021. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/8 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
and nephrotic syndrome (kidney disorder causing the kidneys to leak too 
much protein in the urine) may be side effects of Comirnaty.  
PRAC assessed 89 cases reported as glomerulonephritis or nephrotic 
syndrome worldwide to EudraVigilance (see section 2) by 31 July 2021 
(around 918 million doses of Comirnaty were estimated to have been 
administered worldwide by 31 July 2021). Spontaneously reported cases 
concern suspected side effects, i.e. medical events that have been 
observed after vaccination, but which are not necessarily related to or 
caused by the vaccine. After analysis of the cases, no particular patterns 
could be identified, and information regarding medical history, 
confounding conditions or risk factors was found to be lacking in many 
cases. 
PRAC concluded that the available data did not establish a causal 
relationship of glomerulonephritis or nephrotic syndrome with Comirnaty 
and that an update to the product information of Comirnaty is not 
warranted at present. However, the topic remains under close monitoring.   
PRAC encourages all healthcare professionals and patients to report any 
cases of glomerulonephritis or nephrotic syndrome occurring in people 
after vaccination (see section 2). Affected patients may present with 
bloody or foamy urine, oedema (swelling especially of the eyelids, feet or 
abdomen), or fatigue. 
2.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
Comirnaty is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission). 
Summary safety reports 
The pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines includes Monthly 
Summary Safety Reports (MSSRs) which are compiled by the marketing 
authorisation holders to support timely and continuous benefit-risk 
evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. MSSRs are 
intended to be compiled for at least the first six months of marketing 
(afterwards, pandemic summary safety reports may cover time periods 
longer than a month). These reports complement the submission of 
Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system. Healthcare professionals and 
vaccinated individuals are encouraged to report to their national 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/8 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
competent authorities all suspected side effects individuals may have 
experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is unclear whether the 
vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to report, including 
the importance of detailing the vaccine product name and the batch, see 
Reporting suspected side effects. 
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU 
database used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. 
Publicly available information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – 
European database of suspected drug reaction reports in all EU/EEA 
languages. Search for “COVID-19 mRNA Vaccine PFIZER-BIONTECH 
(Tozinameran)” to see all suspected side effect cases reported for 
Comirnaty. 
As of 30 September 2021, a total of 361,767 cases of suspected side 
effects with Comirnaty were spontaneously reported to EudraVigilance 
from EU/EEA countries; 5,113 of these reported a fatal outcome5,6. By the 
same date more than 420 million doses of Comirnaty had been given to 
people in the EU/EEA7.  
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination 
does not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. 
This may have been caused, for example, by health problems not 
related to the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment. EMA’s detailed assessments take into 
account all available data from all sources to draw a robust conclusion on 
the safety of the vaccine. These data include clinical trial results, reports 
of suspected side effects in EudraVigilance, epidemiological studies 
monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological investigations and any 
other relevant information. 
5 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
6 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side 
effects. As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case 
report, the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. 
Similarly, this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a 
fatal outcome. 
7 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/8 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets Comirnaty will continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trial, which is ongoing for up to two years. It will also 
conduct additional studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the 
vaccine as it is used in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. 
For the list of planned and ongoing safety studies for Comirnaty, see the 
risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Comirnaty is in place. This 
describes how the company collects data on the vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
3.  Other information for Comirnaty 
Comirnaty is a vaccine that was authorised in the EU on 21 December 
2020 to prevent COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-
2. COVID-19 is a potentially severe disease that may result in death. The 
initial marketing authorisation was for use in people aged 16 years and 
older; on 31 May 2021, the marketing authorisation was extended to use 
in individuals aged 12 years and older.  
Comirnaty contains a molecule called mRNA, which the body uses to 
temporarily produce the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The mRNA is broken 
down shortly after vaccination. The spike protein does not cause COVID-
19.  
Before Comirnaty was granted an EU marketing authorisation, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. More than 18,000 participants had been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
Comirnaty are usually mild or moderate and get better within a few days 
after vaccination. 
More information on how Comirnaty works and its use is available in all 
EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes information on 
use in pregnant and breastfeeding women and immunocompromised 
individuals. 
The full product information with the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/8 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 8/8 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
