14 April 2021 
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
VAXZEVRIA 
AstraZeneca AB 
Very rare, potentially serious, events of unusual 
blood clots in combination with low blood 
platelet levels have been confirmed as a new 
side effect of Vaxzevria.  
There are no recommended changes to the 
product information regarding how to use this 
vaccine; Vaxzevria is effective in preventing 
COVID-19. 
Safety updates provide information about the assessments of emerging 
worldwide data since marketing authorisation for COVID-19 vaccines. The 
assessments are carried out by EMA’s safety committee 
(Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee [PRAC]). The safety 
updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: authorised.  
All published safety updates for Vaxzevria are available at Vaxzevria: 
safety updates. 
This safety update follows the last update of 29 March 2021. 
Since its marketing authorisation in the the European Union (EU) on 29 
January 2021 until 9 April 2021, almost 17 million doses of Vaxzevria 
have been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these data 
from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
1.  Updates on safety of Vaxzevria 
At its meeting held 6 to 9 April 2021, PRAC assessed the following in 
relation to:  
Embolic and thrombotic events with a focus on 
thrombosis with thrombocytopenia 
PRAC continued its assessment of cases of embolic and thrombotic events 
(blood clots obstructing blood vessels) reported for Vaxzevria from its use 
in vaccination campaigns, taking into account advice from an ad hoc 
expert group including haematologists, neurologists and 
epidemiologists, convened by EMA on 29 March 20212.  
PRAC’s investigation included an in-depth review of cases of embolic and 
thrombotic events and thrombocytopenia (low levels of blood platelets) 
reported from clinical trials and vaccination campaigns to EudraVigilance 
(see section 3). In its review, PRAC paid special attention to the 
information on the sex, age, risk factors, COVID-19 diagnosis (if 
available), and the time to onset and outcome of the reported events. The 
investigation also included an observed-to-expected analysis and a 
scientific literature review. 
Taking into account all available evidence and advice, PRAC concluded 
that a causal relationship between vaccination with Vaxzevria and very 
rare cases of thrombosis together with thrombocytopenia, sometimes 
accompanied by bleeding, is plausible. The reported thromboses with 
thrombocytopenia include venous thrombosis, also in unusual sites such 
as cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST) (where blood clots in the 
brain's venous sinuses prevent blood from draining out of the brain) and 
splanchnic vein thrombosis (which involves one or more veins in the 
abdomen [belly]), as well as arterial thrombosis. Although such side 
effects are very rare, the reported case numbers exceeded what is seen in 
the general population. The majority of these cases occurred within 14 
days after vaccination and mostly in women under 60 years of age; some 
cases had a fatal outcome. Based on the available data, no specific risk 
factors were identified3.  
PRAC agreed that the product information for Vaxzevria should be updated 
with this assessment and specify thrombocytopenia as a new common 
side effect (occurring in less than 1 in 10 persons) and thrombosis in 
combination with thrombocytopenia as a new very rare side effect 
(occurring in less than 1 in 10,000 persons).  
In clinical trials, thrombocytopenia was mainly described as a mild to 
moderate decrease in the platelet count (>100,000 Pt/mm³) measured by 
2 See EMA Public Health Communication of 25 March 2021 and 31 March 2021 
3 See EMA Public Health Communication of 7 April 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/6 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
laboratory testing and was not associated with any clinical signs or 
symptoms. A transient but sometimes profound fall in platelet counts has 
also been reported after immunisation with other vaccines4. 
Regarding thrombosis in combination with thrombocytopenia, the 
allocated frequency category ‘very rare’ is the category with the lowest 
frequency defined for regulatory labelling of any side effect in a product 
information. From vaccination campaigns, 62 cases of CVST and 24 cases 
of splanchnic vein thrombosis were reported in EudraVigilance (see section 
3) from around 25 million people vaccinated with Vaxzevria in the EU/EEA 
and the United Kingdom (data lock point: 22 March 2021)5.  
People vaccinated with Vaxzevria should seek immediate medical attention 
if symptoms of blood clotting occur and inform healthcare professionals of 
their recent vaccination. Such symptoms include shortness of breath, 
chest or persistent abdominal pain, leg swelling, severe or persistent 
headache, blurred vision, persistent bleeding, and skin bruising or round, 
pinpoint spots beyond the site of vaccination appearing after a few days. 
This information was already included in the product information in March 
2021.  
Healthcare professionals should be alert to the signs and symptoms of 
thromboembolism and/or thrombocytopenia and inform vaccinated people 
accordingly. A further direct healthcare professional communication 
(DHPC) has been sent out to raise awareness among healthcare 
professionals. 
A number of studies will be put in place to identify the exact 
pathophysiological mechanism for these embolic and thrombotic events 
and to estimate their frequency more precisely.  
The use of Vaxzevria should be in accordance with official national 
recommendations. 
Capillary leak syndrome 
PRAC assessed five suspected cases of capillary leak syndrome 
(fluid leaks from smaller vessels with rapid fall in blood pressure and 
tissue swelling) reported to EudraVigilance (see section 3) from the 
EU/EEA and the United Kingdom (UK) relating to about 34 million vaccine 
doses administered by 4 April 2021 in both these territories6. PRAC 
requested the marketing authorisation holder to review data from all pre-
clinical, clinical trial, post-authorisation and scientific literature sources for 
4 Wise RP, Bonhoeffer J, Beeler J, Donato H, Downie P, Matthews D, Pool V, Riise-Bergsaker M, 
Tapiainen T, Varricchio F; Brighton Collaboration Thrombocytopenia Working Group. 
Thrombocytopenia: case definition and guidelines for collection, analysis, and presentation of 
immunization safety data. Vaccine. 2007;25: 5717-5724. 
5 See Meeting Highlights from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
6-9 April 2021 
6 For the latest UK data, see Coronavirus vaccine – weekly summary of Yellow Card 
reporting 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/6 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
further assessment by PRAC. At this stage of the assessment, a causal 
relationship of this syndrome with Vaxzevria has not been established7. 
Anaphylaxis and other hypersensitivity 
reactions   
PRAC assessed new information for the known side effect anaphylaxis 
(severe allergic reaction) and for other suspected hypersensitivity 
reactions (allergic reactions) reported for Vaxzevria. PRAC requested 
further data reviews from the marketing authorisation holder for 
assessment by PRAC.      
Information on the clinical management of anaphylaxis is already available 
in the product information. 
Pain, urticaria and influenza-like symptoms 
PRAC is keeping up-to-date the risk management plan in relation to an 
ongoing review of clinical trial data by the Committee for Medicinal 
Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessing whether pain in the extremity 
(limb), abdominal (belly) pain, urticaria (raised, red and itchy skin rash) 
and influenza-like symptoms may be side effects of Vaxzevria.  
2.  Other information for Vaxzevria 
Vaxzevria (previously COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca) is a vaccine that 
was authorised in the EU on 29 January 2021 for use in people aged 18 
years and older to prevent COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus 
SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a potentially severe disease that may result in 
death. 
Vaxzevria contains an adenovirus that has been modified to carry 
molecules of DNA, which the body uses to temporarily produce the SARS-
CoV-2 spike protein. The spike protein does not cause COVID-19. The 
adenovirus cannot reproduce and does not cause viral disease. 
Before Vaxzevria was granted an EU marketing authorisation, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. More than 12,000 participants have been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
Vaxzevria are usually mild or moderate and get better within a few days 
after vaccination. 
7 See Meeting Highlights from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
6-9 April 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/6 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
More information on how Vaxzevria works and its use is available in the 
medicine overview. This includes information on use in pregnant and 
breastfeeding women and immunocompromised individuals. 
Information in all EU/EEA languages is available in the product 
information, which includes the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
3.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
Vaxzevria is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission). 
Collecting case reports of suspected side effects 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors reports of suspected 
side effects observed in vaccinated individuals. These case reports are 
collected and recorded in EudraVigilance, a system operated by EMA for 
managing and analysing information on suspected side effects of 
medicines. 
Vaccinated individuals and healthcare professionals should report 
suspected side effects via the national reporting systems, which also 
contribute to EudraVigilance. For more information, see Reporting 
suspected side effects. Information on how to report in your Member State 
is available in the package leaflet and via the list of national competent 
authorities. 
You may visit EudraVigilance – European database of suspected drug 
reaction reports and search for “COVID-19 VACCINE ASTRAZENECA 
(CHADOX1 NCOV-19)” to see all suspected side effects reported for 
Vaxzevria in the EU/EEA. Please note that these reports describe 
suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. these events may not necessarily 
have been caused by, or be otherwise related to, the vaccine. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets Vaxzevria will continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trials, which are ongoing. It will also conduct additional 
studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used 
in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned 
and ongoing safety studies for Vaxzevria, see the risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Vaxzevria is in place. This 
describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its potential use in children.  
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/6 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in Member States 
looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the safety and 
effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant women. 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/6 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
