11 May 2021 
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Janssen-Cilag International NV 
Individuals diagnosed with thrombocytopenia 
within 3 weeks after vaccination with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen should be actively investigated 
for signs of thrombosis; similarly, individuals 
who present with thrombosis within 3 weeks of 
vaccination should be evaluated for 
thrombocytopenia. 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is effective in 
preventing COVID-19. 
This safety update follows the last update of 22 April 2021. 
Safety updates provide information about the assessments of emerging 
worldwide safety data since marketing authorisation for COVID-19 
vaccines. Safety assessments are carried out primarily by EMA’s 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC). The safety 
updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: authorised.  
All published safety updates for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen are available 
at COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen: safety updates. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Since the marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 11 
March 2021 until 6 May 2021, more than 500,000 doses of COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen have been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
1.  Updates on safety of COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen 
At its meeting held 3 to 6 May 2021, based on new safety data including 
the latest Monthly Summary Safety Report (MSSR)2 from the marketing 
authorisation holder, PRAC assessed the following:  
Embolic and thrombotic events with a focus on 
thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome 
(TTS) 
PRAC concluded that the following should be added to the product 
information for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen: 
- advice that individuals diagnosed with thrombocytopenia (low blood 
platelets) within 3 weeks of vaccination with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
should be actively investigated for signs of thrombosis (formation of blood 
clots in the vessels), and similarly individuals who present with thrombosis 
within 3 weeks of vaccination should be evaluated for thrombocytopenia; 
- addition of leg pain, seizures (fits) and mental status change as possible 
signs and symptoms of thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome 
(TTS) (in addition to the signs and symptoms already included in the 
product information: severe or persistent headache, blurred vision, 
unexplained skin bruising beyond the site of vaccination which appear a 
few days after vaccination, shortness of breath, chest pain, leg swelling, 
or persistent abdominal pain).  
These additions follow the update to the product information of 22 April 
2021 regarding TTS3. 
Further, the risk management plan (RMP) for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
will be updated, and the marketing authorisation holder will provide a plan 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these data 
from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 Monthly Summary Safety Reports, also referred to as pandemic summary safety 
reports, will be compiled by the marketing authorisation holders to support timely and 
continuous benefit-risk evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. 
These reports complement the submission of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
3 See Safety Update for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen of 22 April 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/4 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
within the RMP with the aim to further study these very rare events of 
TTS, including the possible underlying mechanisms4. 
2.  Other information for COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is a vaccine that was authorised in the EU on 
11 March 2021 for use in people aged 18 years and older to prevent 
COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a 
potentially severe disease that may result in death. 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen contains an adenovirus that has been modified 
to carry molecules of DNA, which the body uses to temporarily produce 
the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The spike protein does not cause COVID-
19. The adenovirus cannot reproduce and does not cause viral disease. 
Before COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen was granted an EU marketing 
authorisation, the efficacy and safety of the vaccine were assessed 
through pre-clinical studies and large clinical trials. More than 27,000 
participants have been given the vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen are usually mild or moderate and get better 
within a few days after vaccination. 
More information on how COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen works and its use is 
available in the medicine overview. This includes information on use in 
pregnant and breastfeeding women and immunocompromised individuals. 
Information in all EU/EEA languages is available in the product 
information, which includes the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
3.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in 
line with the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
Collecting case reports of suspected side effects 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors reports of suspected 
side effects observed in vaccinated individuals. These case reports are 
collected and recorded in EudraVigilance, a system operated by EMA for 
4 See Meeting Highlights from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
3-6 May 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/4 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
managing and analysing information on suspected side effects of 
medicines. 
Vaccinated individuals and healthcare professionals should report 
suspected side effects via the national reporting systems, which also 
contribute to EudraVigilance. For more information, see Reporting 
suspected side effects. Information on how to report in your Member State 
is available in the package leaflet and via the list of national competent 
authorities. 
You may visit EudraVigilance – European database of suspected drug 
reaction reports and search for “COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
(AD26.COV2.S)” to see all suspected side effects reported for COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen in the EU/EEA. Please note that these reports describe 
suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. these events may not necessarily 
have been caused by, or be otherwise related to, the vaccine. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen will continue to 
provide results from ongoing clinical trials. It will also conduct additional 
studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used 
in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned 
and ongoing safety studies for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, see the risk 
management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is in 
place. This describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s 
efficacy and safety for its potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/4 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
