17 February 2022 
COVID-19 vaccines 
safety update  
Comirnaty (BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH) 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (Janssen-Cilag International NV) 
Nuvaxovid (Novavax CZ, a.s.) 
Spikevax (Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L.) 
Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca AB) 
The safety of authorised COVID-19 vaccines is continuously monitored, and 
updated information is regularly provided to the public.  
Safety updates outline the outcomes from assessments of emerging 
worldwide safety data carried out mainly by EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee (PRAC) (section 1). They also outline how safety is 
monitored and contain high-level information on suspected adverse reaction 
reports, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (section 2).  
This safety update follows the update of 20 January 2022 and reflects the 
main assessment outcomes of the PRAC meetings held 26 January and 7 to 
10 February 2022. 
EMA confirms that the benefits of all currently authorised COVID-19 
vaccines continue to outweigh their side effects, given the risk of COVID-19 
illness and related complications, including hospitalisation and death. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Key messages from the latest safety 
assessments 
Comirnaty and Spikevax 
• 
• 
The product information of these mRNA vaccines will be updated to 
reflect the accumulating evidence that they can be used during 
pregnancy and breastfeeding. 
PRAC started a further assessment of menstrual disorders following use 
of mRNA vaccines with a focus on heavy menstrual bleeding and the 
absence of menstruation (amenorrhoea).   
1.  Latest safety assessments                                                                      
Comirnaty (BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH )                                                     
and Spikevax (Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L.)                                         
About 570 million doses of Comirnaty were 
administered in the EU/EEA between 21 December 2020 (EU 
marketing authorisation date) and 30 January 20221. 
About 139 million doses of Spikevax were administered 
in the EU/EEA between 6 January 2021 (EU marketing 
authorisation date) and 30 January 20221. 
Use of the vaccines in pregnancy                             
Update to the product information 
Further to recent reviews  by EMA’s COVID-19 pandemic task force (ETF) 
and information provided in an EMA communication of 18 January 2022 
(see also COVID-19 Vaccines Safety Update of January 2022), PRAC 
provided advice to the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
(CHMP) which recommended updating the product information of the mRNA 
vaccines Comirnaty and Spikevax regarding their use in pregnancy and 
breastfeeding. 
A large amount of information from pregnant women vaccinated with these 
products during the second and third trimester has not shown negative 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
effects on the pregnancy or the newborn baby. While information on effects 
on pregnancy or the newborn baby after vaccination during the first 
trimester is limited, no change to the risk for miscarriage has been seen. 
Comirnaty or Spikevax can be used during pregnancy and 
breastfeeding.  
Menstrual disorders                                                       
Further assessment started 
In October 2021, PRAC concluded that there was insufficient evidence to 
suggest a causal relationship between vaccination with Comirnaty and 
menstrual disorders (Safety Update for Comirnaty of 6 October 2021). 
A further assessment has started following published studies2 suggesting 
there may be short-lived changes in menstrual patterns, including absence 
of menstrual bleeding (amenorrhoea) and heavier than usual menstrual 
bleeding following vaccination with Comirnaty or Spikevax. Further 
information can be found in the PRAC highlights of February 2022. 
Information on how Comirnaty and Spikevax work is provided in their 
respective medicine overviews: Comirnaty and Spikevax (in all EU/EEA 
languages). Full information on the vaccines, including all identified side 
effects and advice on how to use them, is available in their respective 
product informations: Comirnaty and Spikevax (in all EU/EEA languages). 
The product information will be updated to reflect the latest safety 
assessment outcomes. 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (Janssen-Cilag International NV) 
About 19 million doses of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
were administered in the EU/EEA between 11 March 2021 
(EU marketing authorisation date) and 30 January 20221. 
There are no safety updates for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. 
2 Including: https://www.fhi.no/en/news/2022/menstrual-changes-following-covid-19-
vaccination/ and Association Between Menstrual Cycle Length and Coronavirus Disease 
2019 (COVID-19) Vaccination, Obstetrics & Gynecology (lww.com) 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Information on how COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen works is provided in the 
medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the 
vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is 
available in the product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
Nuvaxovid (Novavax CZ, a.s.) 
There are no safety updates for Nuvaxovid. The vaccine is not yet in use in 
the EU/EEA. 
Information on how Nuvaxovid works is provided in the medicine overview 
(in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the vaccine, including all 
identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the 
product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca AB) 
About 69 million doses of Vaxzevria were administered 
in the EU/EEA between 29 January 2021 (EU marketing 
authorisation date) and 30 January 20221. 
There are no safety updates for Vaxzevria.  
Information on how Vaxzevria works is provided in the medicine overview 
(in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the vaccine, including all 
identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the 
product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
2.  How safety is monitored 
Before COVID-19 vaccines were granted EU marketing authorisation, the 
efficacy and safety of the vaccines were assessed in pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. 
All relevant new information emerging worldwide on the vaccines since 
marketing authorisation is collected and promptly assessed. This is in line 
with the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
EMA’s detailed assessments take into account available data from all 
sources to draw robust conclusions on the safety of the vaccines. These 
data include clinical trial results, reports of suspected side effects, 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
epidemiological studies monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological 
investigations and any other relevant information. 
Summary safety reports 
The pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines includes monthly 
summary safety reports (MSSRs) which are compiled by the marketing 
authorisation holders to support timely and continuous benefit-risk 
evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. MSSRs are 
intended to be compiled for at least the first six months of marketing. After 
the first six months, summary safety reports may cover time periods longer 
than a month or not be necessary anymore. MSSRs and summary safety 
reports complement periodic safety update reports (PSURs).  
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system.  
Healthcare professionals and vaccinated individuals are encouraged to 
report to their national competent authorities all suspected side effects 
individuals may have experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is 
unclear whether the vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to 
report, including the importance of detailing the vaccine product name and 
the batch, see Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU database 
used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. Publicly available 
information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – European database of 
suspected drug reaction reports (in all EU/EEA languages).  
As of 30 January 2022, EudraVigilance contained the following figures: 
•  Comirnaty: a total of 582,074 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 7,023 of these reported 
a fatal outcome3,4 (by the same date about 570 million doses of 
Comirnaty had been given to people in the EU/EEA1) 
•  COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen: a total of 40,766 cases of suspected side 
effects spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 279 of these 
3 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
4 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side effect. 
As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case report, 
the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. Similarly, 
this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a fatal 
outcome. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
reported a fatal outcome2,3 (by the same date, about 19 million doses of 
had been administered to people in the EU/EEA1) 
•  Spikevax: a total of 150,807 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 834 of these reported a 
fatal outcome2,3 (by the same date, about 139 million doses of Spikevax 
had been given to people in the EU/EEA1) 
•  Vaxzevria: a total of 244,603 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 1,447 of these reported 
a fatal outcome2,3 (by the same date, about 69 million doses of 
Vaxzevria had been given to people in the EU/EEA1). 
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination does 
not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. This may 
have been caused, for example, by health problems not related to 
the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment.  
Planned and ongoing studies 
The companies that market COVID-19 vaccines continue to provide results 
from ongoing clinical trials. They also conduct additional studies to monitor 
the safety and effectiveness of the vaccines as they are used in vaccination 
campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned and ongoing 
safety studies with COVID-19 vaccines, see the respective risk management 
plan: Comirnaty, COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, Nuvaxovid, Spikevax, and 
Vaxzevria.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) is in place for each authorised COVID-
19 vaccine: Comirnaty, COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, Nuvaxovid, Spikevax, 
and Vaxzevria. The PIP describes how the company will collect data on the 
vaccine’s efficacy and safety for its potential use in children. Two vaccines, 
Comirnaty and Spikevax, are authorised for use in children. 
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member States 
looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the safety and 
effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant women.  
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/7 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
