11 August 2021  
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
SPIKEVAX 
Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L. 
The safety of Spikevax is continuously monitored and safety updates are 
regularly provided to the public. This document outlines the outcomes 
from the assessment of emerging worldwide safety data carried out by 
EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) (see section 
1). It also contains high-level information from the reporting of suspected 
adverse reactions, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (see 
section 2). 
This safety update follows the update of 14 July 2021. 
Main outcomes from PRAC's latest 
safety assessment 
No further updates to the product information 
are currently recommended. 
The safety updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: 
authorised. All published safety updates for Spikevax (previously known 
as COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna) are available at Spikevax: safety updates. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 6 January 
2021 until 29 July 2021, more than 43.5 million doses of Spikevax have 
been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
 More than 43.5 million 
doses administered in EEA 
1.  Updates on safety assessments for 
Spikevax  
PRAC assessed new safety data, including the latest Monthly Summary 
Safety Report (MSSR)2 from the marketing authorisation holder and data 
reported by patients and healthcare professionals to EudraVigilance (see 
section 2), during its meetings on 22 July and 5 August 2021. No further 
updates to the product information are currently recommended. 
Erythema multiforme  
PRAC started an assessment of erythema multiforme (EM; a 
hypersensitivity (allergic) reaction with characteristic round skin lesions, 
which may also affect mucous membranes in internal body cavities) to 
establish whether it is a side effect of Spikevax. The assessment follows a 
small number of cases reported after vaccination with Spikevax to 
EudraVigilance (see section 2). Reported cases concern suspected side 
effects, i.e. medical events that have been observed after vaccination, but 
which are not necessarily related to or caused by the vaccine.  
Further data and analyses have been requested from the marketing 
authorisation holder to support the ongoing assessment by PRAC. 
Glomerulonephritis and nephrotic syndrome 
PRAC started an assessment of glomerulonephritis (inflammation of tiny 
filters in the kidneys) and nephrotic syndrome (kidney disorder causing 
the kidneys to leak too much protein in the urine) to establish whether 
they may be side effects of Spikevax. Affected patients may present with 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 Monthly Summary Safety Reports, also referred to as pandemic summary safety 
reports, will be compiled by the marketing authorisation holders to support timely and 
continuous benefit-risk evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. 
These reports complement the submission of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
bloody or foamy urine, oedema (swelling of the eyelids, feet or abdomen), 
or fatigue. The assessment follows a small number of cases reported after 
vaccination with Spikevax in the medical literature, including cases where 
patients experienced relapse of pre-existing kidney conditions. Further 
data and analyses have been requested from the marketing authorisation 
holder to support the ongoing assessment by PRAC.  
Menstrual disorders  
PRAC discussed reported cases of menstrual disorders occurring after 
vaccination against COVID-19. No causal association between COVID-19 
vaccines and menstrual disorders has been established so far. 
Menstrual disorders are very common in the general population and can 
occur without an underlying medical condition. Causes can range from 
stress and tiredness to conditions such as fibroids and endometriosis. 
Women experiencing unexpected vaginal bleeding (e.g. in 
postmenopausal women) or who are concerned about prolonged or severe 
menstrual disturbances may want to seek medical advice. 
The marketing authorisation holders for all COVID-19 vaccines authorised 
in the EU have been requested to provide further data as part of the 
MSSRs. PRAC will review all available evidence, including reports of 
suspected side effects and scientific literature, and will continue 
monitoring the issue. 
2.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
Spikevax is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission). 
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system. Healthcare professionals and 
vaccinated individuals are encouraged to report to their national 
competent authorities all suspected side effects individuals may have 
experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is unclear whether the 
vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to report, see 
Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU 
database used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. 
Publicly available information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – 
European database of suspected drug reaction reports in all EU/EEA 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/5 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
languages. Search for “COVID-19 MRNA VACCINE MODERNA (CX-
024414)” to see all suspected side effect cases reported for Spikevax. 
As of 29 July 2021, a total of 48,788 cases of suspected side effects with 
Spikevax were spontaneously reported to EudraVigilance from EU/EEA 
countries; 392 of these reported a fatal outcome3,4. By the same date, 
about 43.5 million doses of Spikevax had been given to people in the 
EU/EEA5.  
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination 
does not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. 
This may have been caused, for example, by health problems not 
related to the vaccination. 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment. EMA’s detailed assessments take into 
account all available data from all sources to draw a robust conclusion on 
the safety of the vaccine. These data include clinical trial results, reports 
of suspected side effects in EudraVigilance, epidemiological studies 
monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological investigations and any 
other relevant information. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets Spikevax will continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trial, which is ongoing for up to two years. It will also 
conduct additional studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the 
vaccine as it is used in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. 
For the list of planned and ongoing safety studies for Spikevax, see the 
risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Spikevax is in place. This 
describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its potential use in children.  
3 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
4 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side 
effects. As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case 
report, the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. 
Similarly, this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a 
fatal outcome. 
5 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/5 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
SPIKEVAX 
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
3.  Other information for Spikevax 
Spikevax (previously known as COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna) is a vaccine 
that was authorised in the EU on 6 January 2021 to prevent COVID-19 
when infected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a 
potentially severe disease that may result in death. The initial marketing 
authorisation was for use in people aged 18 years and older; on 23 July 
2021, the marketing authorisation was extended to use in individuals aged 
12 years and older.  
Spikevax contains a molecule called mRNA, which the body uses to 
temporarily produce the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The mRNA is broken 
down shortly after vaccination. The spike protein does not cause COVID-
19.  
Before Spikevax was granted an EU marketing authorisation, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. More than 14,000 participants had been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
Spikevax are usually mild or moderate and get better within a few days 
after vaccination. 
More information on how Spikevax works and its use is available in all 
EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes information on 
use in pregnant and breastfeeding women and immunocompromised 
individuals. 
The full product information with the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages. 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
