11 November 2021 
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Janssen-Cilag International NV 
The safety of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is continuously monitored and 
safety updates are regularly provided to the public. This document 
outlines the outcomes from the assessment of emerging worldwide safety 
data carried out by EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee 
(PRAC) (see section 1). It also contains high-level information from the 
reporting of suspected adverse reactions, which PRAC takes into account 
in its assessments (see section 2). 
This safety update follows the update of 6 October 2021. 
Main outcomes from PRAC's latest 
safety assessment 
There are no updates to the product 
information. 
There is currently insufficient evidence of a 
possible link between COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen and either multisystem inflammatory 
syndrome (MIS) or menstrual disorders. 
The safety updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines 
authorised. All published safety updates for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
are available at COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen: safety updates. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 11 March 
2021 until 29 October 2021, more than 16.3 million doses of COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen have been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
Almost 16.3 million 
doses administered in EEA 
1.  Updates on safety assessments for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
During its meetings held 25 to 28 October 2021 and 04 November 2021, 
PRAC assessed new safety data for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (see 
section 2 ‘How safety is monitored’). 
Multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS)  
PRAC has concluded that there is currently insufficient evidence of a 
possible link between COVID-19 vaccine Janssen and very rare cases of 
multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS).  
MIS is a rare serious inflammatory condition affecting many parts of the 
body and symptoms can include tiredness, persistent severe fever, 
diarrhoea, vomiting, stomach pain, headache, chest pain and difficulty 
breathing. MIS has previously been reported following COVID-19 disease. 
The committee’s assessment is based on available spontaneously reported 
adverse events and currently does not warrant an update of the product 
information. In most cases, the events occurred in individuals suffering 
from multiple diseases and did not fulfil the formal diagnostic criteria for 
MIS. A small number of cases had sufficient diagnostic information, but 
the clinical information was too limited to allow an adequate assessment. 
Menstrual disorders  
PRAC concluded there is insufficient evidence to support a possible causal 
relationship between COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen and menstrual disorders. 
Until 30 September 2021, a total of 1,238 cases of menstrual disorders 
had been reported spontaneously worldwide following vaccination with 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. Of these, 550 were received during the latest 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/6 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
monthly reporting period, of which heavy menstrual bleeding, 
intermenstrual bleeding and amenorrhoea (missed or stopped period) 
were the most frequently reported terms. Spontaneously reported cases 
concern suspected side effects, i.e. medical events that have been 
observed after vaccination, but which are not necessarily related to or 
caused by the vaccine.  
The assessment of all spontaneously reported cases included an analysis 
of the type of symptoms, their time to onset and duration, as well as 
concomitant treatment and medical history/current conditions; no specific 
pattern of menstrual cycle disturbances could be identified. Observed-to-
expected (O/E) analyses for pre- and postmenopausal women resulted in 
O/E ratios substantially below 1; this means the number of cases reported 
after vaccination in relevant time windows was below the number of such 
events expected to occur in the unvaccinated female populations of the 
same size (based on observational data collected from the general 
population), even if all reported cases were assumed to be possibly 
causally related. In addition, no statistical differences in reports of 
menstrual disorders between the vaccinated and unvaccinated groups 
could be identified from clinical trial data.      
2.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in 
line with the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
Summary safety reports 
The pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines includes Monthly 
Summary Safety Reports (MSSRs) which are compiled by the marketing 
authorisation holders to support timely and continuous benefit-risk 
evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. MSSRs are 
intended to be compiled for at least the first six months of marketing 
(afterwards, pandemic summary safety reports may cover time periods 
longer than a month). These reports complement the submission of 
Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system. Healthcare professionals and 
vaccinated individuals are encouraged to report to their national 
competent authorities all suspected side effects individuals may have 
experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is unclear whether the 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/6 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to report, including 
the importance of detailing the vaccine product name and the batch, see 
Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU 
database used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. 
Publicly available information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – 
European database of suspected drug reaction reports in all EU/EEA 
languages. Search for “COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN (AD26.COV2.S)” to 
see all suspected side effect cases reported for COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen. 
As of 28 October 2021, a total of 28,244 cases of suspected side effects 
with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen were spontaneously reported to 
EudraVigilance from EU/EEA countries; 198 of these reported a fatal 
outcome2,3. By the same date, almost 16.3 million doses of COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen had been administered to people in the EU/EEA4.  
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination 
does not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. 
This may have been caused, for example, by health problems not 
related to the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment. EMA’s detailed assessments take into 
account all available data from all sources to draw a robust conclusion on 
the safety of the vaccine. These data include clinical trial results, reports 
of suspected side effects in EudraVigilance, epidemiological studies 
monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological investigations and any 
other relevant information. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen will continue to 
provide results from ongoing clinical trials. It will also conduct additional 
studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used 
2 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
3 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side 
effects. As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case 
report, the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. 
Similarly, this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a 
fatal outcome. 
4 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/6 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned 
and ongoing safety studies for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, see the risk 
management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is in 
place. This describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s 
efficacy and safety for its potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
3.  Other information for COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is a vaccine that was authorised in the EU on 
11 March 2021 for use in people aged 18 years and older to prevent 
COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a 
potentially severe disease that may result in death. 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen contains an adenovirus that has been modified 
to carry molecules of DNA, which the body uses to temporarily produce 
the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The spike protein does not cause COVID-
19. The adenovirus cannot reproduce and does not cause viral disease. 
Before COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen was granted an EU marketing 
authorisation, the efficacy and safety of the vaccine were assessed 
through pre-clinical studies and large clinical trials. More than 27,000 
participants had been given the vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen are usually mild or moderate and get better 
within a few days after vaccination. 
More information on how COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen works and its use is 
available in all EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes 
information on use in pregnant and breastfeeding women and 
immunocompromised individuals. 
The full product information with the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/6 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/6 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
