6 October 2021 
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Janssen-Cilag International NV 
The safety of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is continuously monitored and 
safety updates are regularly provided to the public. This document 
outlines the outcomes from the assessment of emerging worldwide safety 
data carried out by EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee 
(PRAC) (see section 1). It also contains high-level information from the 
reporting of suspected adverse reactions, which PRAC takes into account 
in its assessments (see section 2). 
This safety update follows the update of 8 September 2021. 
Main outcomes from PRAC's latest 
safety assessment 
Venous thromboembolism (VTE, blood clotting 
in the veins) and immune thrombocytopenia 
(ITP, an autoimmune condition with low blood 
platelet levels) will be added to the product 
information as side effects of COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen, together with warnings and advice.  
Transverse myelitis (inflammation in parts of 
the spinal cord) was recommended by PRAC to 
be added to the product information as a side 
effect of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen.   
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
The safety updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: 
authorised. All published safety updates for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
are available at COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen: safety updates. 
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 11 March 
2021 until 30 September 2021, more than 14.3 million doses of COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen have been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
More than 14.3 million 
doses administered in EEA 
1.  Updates on safety assessments for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
During its meeting held 27 to 30 September 2021, PRAC assessed new 
safety data (see section 2 ‘How safety is monitored’). 
Venous thromboembolism (VTE) 
Update to the COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen product information 
Venous thromboembolism (VTE) has been kept under close monitoring by 
PRAC due to a higher proportion of cases of VTE observed in the 
vaccinated group compared with the placebo group in the large clinical 
trial used to authorise COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (see section 3).  
VTE is a condition in which a blood clot forms in a deep vein, usually in a 
leg, arm or groin, and may travel to the lungs causing a blockage of the 
blood supply, with possibly life-threatening consequences (this safety 
issue is distinct from thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome [TTS], 
see below).   
At its meeting held 27 to 30 September 2021, PRAC reviewed new data 
from the clinical trial used to authorise COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
(COV3001), as well as data from another large clinical study (COV3009).  
During the double-blind period (median follow-up time of 123 days) of the 
first, still ongoing, phase 3 study (COV3001), venous thromboembolic 
events were observed in 26 out of 21,894 (0.1%) individuals who received 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen and in 9 out of 21,882 (0.04%) individuals 
who received placebo. Of these, venous thromboembolic events were 
observed within 28 days in 8 individuals who received COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen and in 4 individuals who received placebo. Most of the observed 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/9 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
events involved deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism (21 
individuals who received COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen and 8 individuals who 
received placebo during the entire double-blind phase). The majority of 
events were reported in individuals with at least one predisposing risk 
factor for VTE.  
In the other ongoing phase 3 study (COV3009, 15,708 individuals 
receiving the vaccine and 15,592 receiving placebo), there was no 
increase in venous thromboembolic events among individuals who 
received COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen (median follow-up time of 70 days).  
When taking all evidence into account, PRAC concluded that there is a 
reasonable possibility that VTE is linked to vaccination with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen. PRAC therefore recommended adding VTE to the product 
information of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen as a rare side effect (i.e. 
occurring in less than 1 in 1,000 individuals), together with warnings for 
healthcare professionals and people taking the vaccine, especially those 
who may have an increased risk of VTE. 
PRAC also agreed on a direct healthcare professional communication 
(DHPC) to raise awareness among healthcare professionals. Following 
agreement of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
(CHMP) on the product information update and the DHPC, the DHPC will 
be disseminated to healthcare professionals by the marketing 
authorisation holder according to an agreed communication plan. The 
DHPC will be available on a dedicated page on the EMA website and in 
the national DHPC registers of EU Member States2.   
Healthcare professionals should be aware that: 
•  VTE has been observed rarely following vaccination with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen; and  
• 
the risk of VTE should be considered for individuals with increased risk 
factors for thromboembolism (blood clots). 
Reminder: Individuals diagnosed with thrombocytopenia within three 
weeks after vaccination with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen should be actively 
investigated for signs of thrombosis. Similarly, individuals who present 
with thrombosis within three weeks of vaccination should be evaluated for 
thrombocytopenia. This is important to assess a potential diagnosis of 
thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome (TTS), which requires 
specialised clinical management. 
Vaccinated individuals should seek immediate medical attention if they: 
• 
• 
develop shortness of breath, chest pain, leg swelling, leg pain or 
persistent abdominal pain following vaccination; or 
experience severe or persistent headaches, blurred vision, mental 
status changes or seizures (fits) a few days following vaccination. 
2 See Meeting Highlights from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
27 - 30 September 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/9 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP)  
Update to the COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen product information 
In August 2021, PRAC recommended updating the product information of 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen to include immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) as 
a side effect, together with a warning to alert healthcare professionals and 
people taking the vaccine3. 
ITP is a condition in which the immune system mistakenly targets blood 
cells called platelets that are needed for normal blood clotting. Very low 
levels of blood platelets can be associated with bleeding and serious 
health problems. 
At its meeting held 27 to 30 September 2021, PRAC finalised the update 
of the product information, allocating ITP to the ‘unknown frequency’ 
category, because it is generally difficult to robustly estimate side effect 
frequencies from cases of suspected side effects that have been reported 
spontaneously by healthcare professionals or patients. Spontaneously 
reported cases concern suspected side effects, i.e. medical events that 
have been observed after vaccination, but which are not necessarily 
related to or caused by the vaccine. 
PRAC also agreed on a direct healthcare professional communication 
(DHPC) to raise awareness among healthcare professionals. Following 
agreement of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
(CHMP) on the product information update and the DHPC, the DHPC will 
be disseminated to healthcare professionals by the marketing 
authorisation holder according to an agreed communication plan. The 
DHPC will be available on a dedicated page on the EMA website and in 
the national DHPC registers of EU Member States4.   
Healthcare professionals should be aware that: 
• 
• 
cases of ITP, some with very low platelet levels (<20,000 per μL), 
have been reported very rarely, usually within the first four weeks 
after receiving COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen; this included cases with 
bleeding and cases with a fatal outcome; some of these occurred in 
individuals with a history of ITP; 
if an individual has a history of ITP, the risk of developing low platelet 
levels should be considered before vaccination, and platelet monitoring 
is recommended after vaccination. 
Reminder: Individuals diagnosed with thrombocytopenia within three 
weeks after vaccination with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen should be actively 
investigated for signs of thrombosis. Similarly, individuals who present 
with thrombosis within three weeks of vaccination should be evaluated for 
thrombocytopenia. This is important to assess a potential diagnosis of 
thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome (TTS), which requires 
specialised clinical management. 
3 See safety update for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen of 11 August 2021 
4 See Meeting Highlights from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
27 - 30 September 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/9 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Vaccinated individuals should: 
• 
seek immediate medical attention if they experience unexplained 
bleeding or skin bruising or pinpoint round spots beyond the site of 
vaccination, appearing a few days after vaccination. 
Thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome 
(TTS) 
Update to the COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen product information  
In May 2021, the product information of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen was 
updated with regard to the very rare risk of thrombosis (formation of 
blood clots in the blood vessels) with thrombocytopenia (low blood 
platelets) syndrome (TTS)5.  
Data on TTS are kept under close monitoring for further characterisation 
of risk factors, and PRAC now concluded that the product information 
should be further updated by removing the current statement that 
reported TSS cases occurred mostly in women, since the previously 
observed sex imbalance between cases could no longer be observed.  
Of the cases reported spontaneously as TTS worldwide by the end of 
August 2021, 73% of cases were reported in subjects below 60 years of 
age. In most cases sex was known, and around 44% were in women 
below the age of 60 years. Spontaneously reported cases concern 
suspected side effects, i.e. medical events that have been observed after 
vaccination, but which are not necessarily related to or caused by the 
vaccine.       
Reminder: People should seek immediate medical attention if they 
experience severe or persistent headache, blurred vision, confusion, 
seizures, shortness of breath, chest pain, leg swelling, leg pain, persistent 
abdominal pain, unusual bleeding or skin bruising or pinpoint round spots 
beyond the site of vaccination within three weeks of vaccination, as these 
could be signs of TTS.    
Transverse myelitis 
Update to the COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen product information  
PRAC recommended that transverse myelitis (inflammation in parts of the 
spinal cord) should be added to the product information as a side effect of 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen.  
This conclusion is based on worldwide transverse myelitis cases 
spontaneously reported by 31 August 2021, of which 10 have been 
assessed to have at least a possible causal relationship with the vaccine, 
and 1 a probable causal relationship (more than 33 million doses of 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen were estimated to have been administered 
worldwide by 31 August 2021). Spontaneously reported cases concern 
5 See safety update for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen of 11 May 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/9 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
suspected side effects, i.e. medical events that have been observed after 
vaccination, but which are not necessarily related to or caused by the 
vaccine. 
The frequency category is proposed to be ‘unknown frequency’, because it 
is generally difficult to robustly estimate side effect frequencies from cases 
of suspected side effects that have been reported spontaneously by 
healthcare professionals or patients. 
Dizziness 
Update to the COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen product information  
In August 2021, PRAC recommended adding dizziness to the product 
information as a side effect of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen6. 
PRAC has now finalised the product information and allocated this side 
effect to the frequency category ‘uncommon’ (i.e. occurring in less than 1 
in 100 individuals), based on clinical trial data. 
2.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in 
line with the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
Summary safety reports 
The pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines includes Monthly 
Summary Safety Reports (MSSRs) which are compiled by the marketing 
authorisation holders to support timely and continuous benefit-risk 
evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. MSSRs are 
intended to be compiled for at least the first six months of marketing 
(afterwards, pandemic summary safety reports may cover time periods 
longer than a month). These reports complement the submission of 
Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system. Healthcare professionals and 
vaccinated individuals are encouraged to report to their national 
competent authorities all suspected side effects individuals may have 
6 See safety update for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen of 11 August 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/9 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is unclear whether the 
vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to report, including 
the importance of detailing the vaccine product name and the batch, see 
Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU 
database used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. 
Publicly available information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – 
European database of suspected drug reaction reports in all EU/EEA 
languages. Search for “COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN (AD26.COV2.S)” to 
see all suspected side effect cases reported for COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen. 
As of 30 September 2021, a total of 23,455 cases of suspected side 
effects with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen were spontaneously reported to 
EudraVigilance from EU/EEA countries; 171 of these reported a fatal 
outcome7,8. By the same date, more than 14.3 million doses of COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen had been given to people in the EU/EEA9.  
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination 
does not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. 
This may have been caused, for example, by health problems not 
related to the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment. EMA’s detailed assessments take into 
account all available data from all sources to draw a robust conclusion on 
the safety of the vaccine. These data include clinical trial results, reports 
of suspected side effects in EudraVigilance, epidemiological studies 
monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological investigations and any 
other relevant information. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen will continue to 
provide results from ongoing clinical trials. It will also conduct additional 
7 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
8 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side 
effects. As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case 
report, the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. 
Similarly, this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a 
fatal outcome. 
9 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/9 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used 
in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned 
and ongoing safety studies for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, see the risk 
management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is in 
place. This describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s 
efficacy and safety for its potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
3.  Other information for COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is a vaccine that was authorised in the EU on 
11 March 2021 for use in people aged 18 years and older to prevent 
COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a 
potentially severe disease that may result in death. 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen contains an adenovirus that has been modified 
to carry molecules of DNA, which the body uses to temporarily produce 
the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The spike protein does not cause COVID-
19. The adenovirus cannot reproduce and does not cause viral disease. 
Before COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen was granted an EU marketing 
authorisation, the efficacy and safety of the vaccine were assessed 
through pre-clinical studies and large clinical trials. More than 27,000 
participants had been given the vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen are usually mild or moderate and get better 
within a few days after vaccination. 
More information on how COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen works and its use is 
available in all EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes 
information on use in pregnant and breastfeeding women and 
immunocompromised individuals. 
The full product information with the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 8/9 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 9/9 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
