29 March 2021  
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
COMIRNATY 
BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH 
The latest safety data for this vaccine are in 
line with the known benefit-risk profile; the 
outcomes of the related assessments are 
presented in this update. 
Swelling of the vaccinated limb usually recovers 
by itself. 
The benefits of Comirnaty in preventing COVID-
19 continue to outweigh the risks, and there 
are no recommended changes regarding the 
use of this vaccine. 
Safety updates provide the outcomes of the assessment of emerging data 
since marketing authorisation for COVID-19 vaccines. The assessments 
are carried out by EMA’s safety committee (Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee [PRAC]). The safety updates are published 
regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: authorised.  
All published safety updates for Comirnaty are available at Comirnaty: 
safety updates. 
This safety update follows the last update of 4 March 2021. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
Since the marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 21 
December 2020 until 25 March 2021, more than 45 million doses of 
Comirnaty have been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
1.  Updates on safety of Comirnaty 
On 25 March 2021, PRAC assessed all new safety data emerging 
worldwide, including the latest Summary Monthly Safety Report2 from the 
marketing authorisation holder, and concluded that the benefit-risk 
balance of Comirnaty remains positive.  
Specifically, the following was concluded by PRAC in relation to:  
Extensive swelling of the vaccinated limb 
The assessment identified extensive swelling of the vaccinated limb, 
usually the upper arm, as a new side effect of Comirnaty. Although such 
swelling may appear severe to the vaccinated person, this condition 
usually recovers by itself within a couple of days after vaccination. The 
frequency of this side effect is being assessed further. The product 
information will be updated accordingly.   
Localised swelling in persons with history of 
dermal filler injections 
PRAC started an assessment of some reports of localised swelling after 
vaccination with Comirnaty in people with a history of injections with 
dermal fillers (gel-like substances injected under the skin). PRAC 
requested the marketing authorisation holder to review all cases and the 
scientific literature for further assessment by the committee3.   
Diarrhoea and vomiting 
The frequency of the recently identified side effects diarrhoea and 
vomiting have now been estimated as very common (i.e. occurring in 
more than 1 in 10 vaccinated persons) and common (i.e. occurring in 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these data 
from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 Summary Monthly Safety Reports will be compiled by the marketing authorisation 
holders for COVID-19 vaccines to support timely and continuous benefit-risk evaluations. 
These reports complement the submission of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
3 See Meeting Highlights from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
8-11 March 2021. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
more than 1 in 100 vaccinated persons), respectively. The product 
information of Comirnaty will be updated accordingly.    
Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) 
For all COVID-19 vaccines used in the EU, a specific PRAC assessment of 
immune thrombocytopenia (ITP, low blood platelet levels that can lead to 
bruising and bleeding) as a suspected side effect is ongoing4.  
The PRAC assessment of the ITP cases reported to EudraVigilance (see 
section 3) for Comirnaty from vaccination campaigns did not reveal a 
pattern confirming a causal relationship of ITP with Comirnaty. In some 
cases, the time-to-onset of symptoms was inconsistent with the possibility 
of a vaccine-mediated immune reaction.  
2.  Other information for Comirnaty 
Comirnaty is a vaccine that was authorised in the EU for use in people 
aged 16 years and older to prevent COVID-19 when infected with the 
coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a potentially severe disease that 
may result in death. 
Comirnaty contains a molecule called mRNA, which the body uses to 
temporarily produce the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The mRNA is broken 
down shortly after vaccination. The spike protein does not cause COVID-
19.  
Before Comirnaty was granted an EU marketing authorisation, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. More than 18,000 participants have been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
Comirnaty are usually mild or moderate and get better within a few days 
after vaccination. 
More information on how Comirnaty works and its use is available in the 
medicine overview. This includes information on use in pregnant and 
breastfeeding women and immunocompromised individuals. 
Information in all EU/EEA languages is available in the product 
information, which includes the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
4 See Meeting Highlights from the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
8-11 March 2021. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
3.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
Comirnaty is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission). 
Collecting case reports of suspected side effects 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors reports of suspected 
side effects observed in vaccinated individuals. These case reports are 
collected and recorded in EudraVigilance, a system operated by EMA for 
managing and analysing information on suspected side effects of 
medicines. 
Vaccinated individuals and healthcare professionals should report 
suspected side effects via the national reporting systems, which also 
contribute to EudraVigilance. For more information, see Reporting side 
effects. Information on how to report side effects in your Member State is 
available in the package leaflet and the list of national competent 
authorities. 
You may visit EudraVigilance – European database of suspected drug 
reaction reports and search for “COVID-19 mRNA Vaccine PFIZER-
BIONTECH (Tozinameran)” to see all suspected side effects reported for 
Comirnaty in the EU/EEA. Please note that these reports describe 
suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. these events may not necessarily 
have been caused by, or be otherwise related to, the vaccine. 
By 22 March 2021, 94 303 cases of suspected side effects reported for 
Comirnaty from the EU/EEA had been included and monitored in 
EudraVigilance, relating to around 42 million doses administered5.   
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets Comirnaty will continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trial, which is ongoing for up to two years. It will also 
conduct additional studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the 
vaccine as it is used in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. 
For the list of planned and ongoing safety studies for Comirnaty, see the 
risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Comirnaty is in place. This 
describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its potential use in children.  
5 See EMA Public stakeholder meeting: approval, safety monitoring and impact of COVID-
19 vaccines in the EU on 26 March 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COMIRNATY 
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women.  
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
