14 July 2021 
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
VAXZEVRIA 
AstraZeneca AB 
The safety of Vaxzevria is continuously monitored and safety updates are 
regularly provided to the public. This document outlines the outcomes 
from the assessment of emerging worldwide safety data carried out by 
EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) (see section 
1). It also contains high-level information from the reporting of suspected 
adverse reactions, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (see 
section 2). 
This safety update follows the update of 18 June 2021. 
Main outcomes from PRAC's latest 
safety assessment 
Vaccinated persons need to seek immediate 
medical attention if they develop weakness and 
paralysis in the extremities, possibly 
progressing to the chest and face, after 
vaccination with Vaxzevria, as these could be 
signs of Guillain-Barré syndrome. 
The product information will be updated.    
Vaxzevria is effective in preventing COVID-19. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
The safety updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: 
authorised. All published safety updates for Vaxzevria are available at 
Vaxzevria: safety updates.  
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 29 
January 2021 until 4 July 2021, more than 58.4 million doses of Vaxzevria 
have been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
More than 58.4 million 
doses administered in EEA 
1.  Updates on safety assessments for 
Vaxzevria 
Based on new safety data, including the latest Monthly Summary Safety 
Report (MSSR)2 from the marketing authorisation holder and data 
reported by patients and healthcare professionals to EudraVigilance (see 
section 2), PRAC assessed the following at its meeting held 5 to 8 July 
2021:  
Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) 
PRAC assessed cases of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) reported after 
vaccination with Vaxzevria. GBS is an adverse event of special interest for 
all COVID-19 vaccines requiring specific safety monitoring. 
GBS is an immune system disorder that causes nerve inflammation and 
can result in pain, numbness, muscle weakness and difficulty walking. 
PRAC assessed all available evidence, including cases reported to 
EudraVigilance (see section 2) and information from the scientific 
literature. A total of 227 cases of GBS had been reported from the EU/EEA 
to EudraVigilance with Vaxzevria by 27 June 2021, while around 51.4 
million doses of Vaxzevria had been given to people in the EU/EEA by 20 
June 2021. Reported cases concern suspected side effects, i.e. medical 
events that have been observed after vaccination, but which are not 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 Monthly Summary Safety Reports, also referred to as pandemic summary safety 
reports, will be compiled by the marketing authorisation holders to support timely and 
continuous benefit-risk evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. 
These reports complement the submission of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
necessarily related to or caused by the vaccine. At this stage the available 
data neither confirm nor rule out a causal relationship with the vaccine. 
In view of the seriousness of this rare condition, however, PRAC 
recommended adding a statement to the sections for warnings and 
precautions of use in the product information to alert healthcare 
professionals and people taking the vaccine of this potential risk.  
Healthcare professionals should be alert to signs and symptom of GBS, 
allowing early diagnosis, supportive care and treatment.  
People taking the vaccine are advised to seek immediate medical attention 
if they develop weakness and paralysis in the extremities that can 
progress to the chest and face.  
PRAC continues to closely monitor this issue3. 
Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) 
PRAC continued assessing cases of immune thrombocytopenia (ITP, an 
auto-immune condition of low blood platelet levels that can lead to 
bruising and bleeding) reported with Vaxzevria. PRAC has requested 
further data from the marketing authorisation holder to continue its 
assessment. 
Acute macular neuroretinopathy (AMN) 
PRAC assessed cases of acute macular neuroretinopathy (AMN), a rare 
condition characterised by sudden onset of one or more paracentral 
scotomas, i.e. spots that partially obstruct vision. This condition has been 
reported very rarely after vaccination with Vaxzevria. For this assessment, 
ophthalmological diagnosis and causality are considered in each case. 
PRAC has requested further data and analyses from the marketing 
authorisation holder to continue its assessment of whether AMN could 
possibly be caused by Vaxzevria.  
Myocarditis and pericarditis  
PRAC continued its assessment of myocarditis and pericarditis 
(inflammatory conditions of the heart) reported in a small number of 
people following vaccination with COVID-19 vaccines. As of end of May 
2021, 38 cases of myocarditis and 47 cases of pericarditis were reported 
from the EU/EEA to EudraVigilance (see section 2) following vaccination 
with Vaxzevria; 40 million doses of the vaccine had been administered in 
the EU/EEA. Further information is needed to assess whether there is a 
causal relationship between myocarditis/pericarditis and Vaxzevria, and 
3 See PRAC Highlights of July 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/7 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
PRAC has requested additional data from the marketing authorisation 
holder. 
Thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome 
(TTS) 
In May 2021, the product information of Vaxzevria was updated with 
regard to the very rare risk of thrombosis (formation of blood clots in the 
blood vessels) with thrombocytopenia (low blood platelets) syndrome 
(TTS)4. PRAC is keeping TTS under close monitoring.  
As of 27 June 2021, 479 cases of suspected TTS with Vaxzevria were 
spontaneously reported to EudraVigilance (see section 2) from EU/EEA 
countries; 100 of these reported a fatal outcome5,6 (these figures for 
suspected TTS refer to cases where events of thrombosis and 
thrombocytopenia were reported in combination; further case 
ascertainment is required to confirm TTS in these reported cases). About 
51.4 million of doses of Vaxzevria had been given to people in the EU/EEA 
by 20 June 20217.   
2.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
Vaxzevria is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission). 
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system. Healthcare professionals and 
vaccinated individuals are encouraged to report to their national 
competent authorities all suspected side effects individuals may have 
experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is unclear whether the 
4 See safety update for Vaxzevria of 11 May 2021 
5 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
6 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side 
effects. As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case 
report, the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. 
Similarly, this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a 
fatal outcome. 
7 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/7 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to report, see 
Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU 
database used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. 
Publicly available information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – 
European database of suspected drug reaction reports in all EU/EEA 
languages. Search for “COVID-19 VACCINE ASTRAZENECA 
(CHADOX1 NCOV-19)” to see all suspected side effect cases reported for 
Vaxzevria. 
As of 4 July 2021, a total of 152,250 cases of suspected side effects with 
Vaxzevria were spontaneously reported to EudraVigilance from EU/EEA 
countries; 938 of these reported a fatal outcome8,9. Around that time, 
about 58.4 million of doses of Vaxzevria had been given to people in the 
EU/EEA10.  
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination 
does not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. 
This may have been caused, for example, by health problems not 
related to the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment. EMA’s detailed assessments take into 
account all available data from all sources to draw a robust conclusion on 
the safety of the vaccine. These data include clinical trial results, reports 
of suspected side effects in EudraVigilance, epidemiological studies 
monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological investigations and any 
other relevant information. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets Vaxzevria will continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trials, which are ongoing. It will also conduct additional 
studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used 
8 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
9 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side 
effects. As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case 
report, the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. 
Similarly, this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a 
fatal outcome. 
10 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/7 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned 
and ongoing safety studies for Vaxzevria, see the risk management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Vaxzevria is in place. This 
describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
3.  Other information for Vaxzevria 
Vaxzevria (previously COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca) is a vaccine that 
was authorised in the EU on 29 January 2021 for use in people aged 18 
years and older to prevent COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus 
SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a potentially severe disease that may result in 
death. 
Vaxzevria contains an adenovirus that has been modified to carry 
molecules of DNA, which the body uses to temporarily produce the SARS-
CoV-2 spike protein. The spike protein does not cause COVID-19. The 
adenovirus cannot reproduce and does not cause viral disease. 
Before Vaxzevria was granted an EU marketing authorisation, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. More than 12,000 participants had been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
Vaxzevria are usually mild or moderate and get better within a few days 
after vaccination. 
More information on how Vaxzevria works and its use is available in all 
EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes information on 
use in pregnant and breastfeeding women and immunocompromised 
individuals. 
The full product information with the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/7 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
