8 September 2022 Rev.11 
COVID-19 vaccines 
safety update  
Comirnaty (BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH) 
COVID-19 Vaccine Valneva (Valneva Austria GmbH) 
Jcovden (Janssen-Cilag International NV) 
Nuvaxovid (Novavax CZ, a.s.) 
Spikevax (Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L.) 
Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca AB) 
Update as of 1 December 2023 
COVID-19 Vaccine Valneva was withdrawn from the EU market at the request of 
the company for commercial reasons. The withdrawal does not affect the 
information provided in this safety update. 
The safety of authorised COVID-19 vaccines is continuously monitored, and 
updated information is regularly provided to the public.  
Safety updates outline the outcomes from assessments of emerging 
worldwide safety data carried out mainly by EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk 
Assessment Committee (PRAC) (section 1). They also outline how safety is 
monitored and contain high-level information on suspected adverse reaction 
reports, which PRAC takes into account in its assessments (section 2).  
This safety update follows the update of 14 July 2022 (with new information 
added on 3 August 2022) and reflects the main assessment outcomes of 
the PRAC meeting held 29 August to 01 September 2022. 
EMA confirms that the benefits of all currently authorised COVID-19 
vaccines continue to outweigh their side effects, given the risk of COVID-19 
illness and related complications, including hospitalisation and death. 
1 This document was updated on 1 December 2023 to include a statement on the 
withdrawal of COVID-19 Vaccine Valneva. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Key messages from the latest safety 
assessments 
An update to the product information of Comirnaty is 
recommended to reflect that the risk of myocarditis and 
pericarditis seems to be lower in children aged 5 to 11 
years than in those aged 12 to 17 years. 
1.  Latest safety assessments 
Corneal graft rejection (CGR) 
Available evidence does not support a causal relationship of CGR with 
Comirnaty, Spikevax or Vaxzevria 
In April 2022, PRAC started an assessment of corneal graft rejection (CGR) 
to establish whether it may be a side effect of COVID-19 vaccines (see 
safety update of April 2022). CGR occurs when the body’s immune system 
mistakenly attacks the donor cornea (the transparent layer in front of the 
eye) that has replaced a damaged or diseased cornea.  
PRAC has now concluded that the available evidence does not support a 
causal relationship between Comirnaty, Spikevax or Vaxzevria and CGR.  
PRAC assessed all available data, including the scientific literature and cases 
of CGR reported to EudraVigilance (see section 2) for each of the three 
vaccines individually (no cases were reported for the other EU-authorised 
COVID-19 vaccines). PRAC’s conclusion was based on a number of common 
factors, including the small number of cases reported after vaccination 
(fewer than 100 cases worldwide for all three vaccines together) and the 
presence of CGR risk factors in many of the concerned patients (e.g. history 
of previous graft failure, prior eye surgery, or history of eye infection). 
Corneal graft procedure is one of the most commonly performed transplants 
and symptoms of graft rejection generally occur in about 10% of corneal 
transplant patients. Therefore, the number of cases reported after 
vaccination was considered to be within the range of CGR events that would 
be expected in non-vaccinated individuals.  
PRAC acknowledged that awareness and management of CGR, regardless of 
cause, is part of routine clinical practice. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Comirnaty (BioNTech Manufacturing GmbH) 
A PRAC assessment concluded that the available evidence does not support 
a causal relationship of corneal graft rejection with Comirnaty (see page 2). 
Myocarditis and pericarditis 
Update to the product information  
In December 2021, PRAC concluded that the risk of myocarditis and 
pericarditis (inflammatory conditions of the heart) after vaccination with 
Comirnaty is highest in young males, especially after the second vaccination 
(see safety update of December 2021). Overall, there is a very rare risk of 
myocarditis and pericarditis following vaccination with Comirnaty regardless 
of dose.  
PRAC has continued monitoring this risk and assessed recent data, including 
a US study2 that analysed data from three safety monitoring systems. 
Based on this new information, PRAC has recommended an update to the 
EU product information to state that the risk of myocarditis and pericarditis 
seems lower in children aged 5 to 11 years than in those aged 12 to 17 
years. The overall frequency category of myocarditis/pericarditis is already 
described in the product information as very rare (i.e. occurring in less than 
1 in 10,000 persons vaccinated). 
The current product information contains the following advice: 
Following vaccination, you should be alert to signs of 
myocarditis and pericarditis, such as breathlessness, 
palpitations and chest pain, and seek immediate medical 
attention should these occur.  
Available data suggest that the course of myocarditis and 
pericarditis following vaccination is not different from 
myocarditis or pericarditis in general.   
Healthcare professionals should consult guidance and/or 
specialists to diagnose and treat this condition.  
Vulval ulceration 
Assessment started 
A very small number of cases of vulval ulceration will be assessed to 
determine whether they may have been caused by Comirnaty. Vulval 
ulcerations are usually self-limiting sores on the outer parts of the female 
genitals. Reported cases concern suspected side effects, i.e. medical events 
2 Hause AM et al. Safety of COVID-19 vaccination in United States children ages 5 to 11 
years. Pediatrics. 2022;150: e2022057313. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
that have been observed after vaccination, but which are not necessarily 
related to or caused by the vaccine.  
Histiocytic necrotising lymphadenitis 
Monitored within routine safety surveillance 
A very small number of cases of histiocytic necrotising lymphadenitis (HNL) 
will be further monitored and assessed within the regular safety surveillance 
of Comirnaty. HNL is a condition involving swollen lymph nodes, mild fever 
and night sweats, and is usually transient and self-limiting. Reported cases 
concern suspected side effects, i.e. medical events that have been observed 
after vaccination, but which are not necessarily related to or caused by the 
vaccine. 
About 663 million doses of Comirnaty, including about 
55 million doses in children and adolescents (below 
18 years of age), were administered in the EU/EEA from 
authorisation to 14 August 2022.3 
The initial conditional marketing authorisation for Comirnaty in the EU was 
issued on 21 December 2020. Information on how Comirnaty works is 
provided in the medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages). Full 
information on the vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on 
how to use it, is available in the product information (in all EU/EEA 
languages).  
COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, adjuvanted) 
Valneva (Valneva Austria GmbH) 
There are no safety updates for COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, 
adjuvanted) Valneva. 
By 14 August 2022, COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, adjuvanted) Valneva 
had not yet been used in the EU/EEA2.  
The initial marketing authorisation for COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, 
adjuvanted) Valneva in the EU was issued on 24 June 2022. Information on 
how COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, adjuvanted) Valneva works is provided 
in the medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the 
vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is 
available in the product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
3 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.  
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Jcovden (Janssen-Cilag International NV) 
There are no safety updates for Jcovden. 
About 19.4 million doses of Jcovden in adults were 
administered in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 14 August 
2022.4 
The initial conditional marketing authorisation for Jcovden (previously 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen) in the EU was issued on 11 March 2021. 
Information on how Jcovden works is provided in the medicine overview (in 
all EU/EEA languages); full information on the vaccine, including all 
identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the 
product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
Nuvaxovid (Novavax CZ, a.s.) 
There are no safety updates for Nuvaxovid. 
About 262,000 doses of Nuvaxovid in adults were 
administered in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 14 August 
2022.3 
The initial conditional marketing authorisation for Nuvaxovid in the EU was 
issued on 20 December 2021. Information on how Nuvaxovid works is 
provided in the medicine overview (in all EU/EEA languages); full 
information on the vaccine, including all identified side effects and advice on 
how to use it, is available in the product information (in all EU/EEA 
languages). 
4 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Spikevax (Moderna Biotech Spain, S.L.)  
A PRAC assessment concluded that the available evidence does not support 
a causal relationship of corneal graft rejection with Spikevax (see page 2). 
Myocarditis and pericarditis 
Update to the product information  
In December 2021, PRAC concluded that the risk of myocarditis and 
pericarditis (inflammatory conditions of the heart) after vaccination with 
Spikevax is highest in young males, especially after the second vaccination 
(see safety update of December 2021). The product information of Spikevax 
has been updated to reflect that the risk profile for myocarditis and 
pericarditis seems to be similar after the second and the third dose. The 
overall frequency category of myocarditis/pericarditis is already described in 
the product information as very rare (i.e. occurring in less than 1 in 10,000 
vaccinated persons).  
The current product information contains the following advice: 
Following vaccination, you should be alert to signs of 
myocarditis and pericarditis, such as breathlessness, 
palpitations and chest pain, and seek immediate medical 
attention should these occur. 
Available data suggest that the course of myocarditis and 
pericarditis following vaccination is not different from 
myocarditis or pericarditis in general.  
Healthcare professionals should consult guidance and/or 
specialists to diagnose and treat this condition. 
About 158 million doses of Spikevax, including about 
3.1 million doses in children and adolescents (below 
18 years of age), were administered in the EU/EEA from 
authorisation to 14 August 2022.5 
The initial conditional marketing authorisation for Spikevax (previously 
COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna) in the EU was issued on 06 January 2021. 
Information on how Spikevax works is provided in the medicine overview 
(in all EU/EEA languages). Full information on the vaccine, including all 
5 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the 
product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca AB)  
There are no safety updates for Vaxzevria, apart from a PRAC assessment 
concluding that the available evidence does not support a causal 
relationship of corneal graft rejection with Vaxzevria (see page 2). 
About 69 million doses of Vaxzevria in adults were 
administered in the EU/EEA from authorisation to 14 August 
2022.6 
The initial conditional marketing authorisation for Vaxzevria (previously 
COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca) in the EU was issued on 29 January 2021. 
Information on how Vaxzevria works is provided in the medicine overview 
(in all EU/EEA languages); full information on the vaccine, including all 
identified side effects and advice on how to use it, is available in the 
product information (in all EU/EEA languages). 
2.  How safety is monitored 
Before COVID-19 vaccines were granted EU marketing authorisation, the 
efficacy and safety of the vaccines were assessed in pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. 
All relevant new information emerging worldwide on the vaccines since 
marketing authorisation is collected and promptly assessed. This is in line 
with the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
EMA’s detailed assessments take into account all available data from all 
sources to draw robust conclusions on the safety of the vaccines. These 
data include clinical trial results, reports of suspected side effects, 
epidemiological studies monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological 
investigations and any other relevant information. 
6 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
Summary safety reports 
The pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines includes monthly 
summary safety reports (MSSRs) which are compiled by the marketing 
authorisation holders to support timely and continuous benefit-risk 
evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. MSSRs are 
intended to be compiled in the first months of marketing. Afterwards, 
summary safety reports may cover time periods longer than a month or 
may not be necessary anymore. Summary safety reports complement 
periodic safety update reports (PSURs).  
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
of the EU safety monitoring system.  
Healthcare professionals and vaccinated individuals are encouraged to 
report to their national competent authorities all suspected side effects 
individuals may have experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is 
unclear whether the vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to 
report, including the importance of detailing the vaccine product name and 
the batch, see Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU database 
used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. Publicly available 
information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – European database of 
suspected drug reaction reports (in all EU/EEA languages).  
As of 29 August 2022, EudraVigilance contained the following: 
•  Comirnaty: a total of 905,189 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 8,209 of these reported 
a fatal outcome7,8 (by 14 August 2022, about 663 million doses of 
Comirnaty had been given to people in the EU/EEA9) 
•  COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, adjuvanted) Valneva: no cases of 
suspected side effects spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries6,7 
(by 14 August 2022, the vaccine had not yet been used in the EU/EEA8) 
7 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland).  
8 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side effect. 
As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case report, 
the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. Similarly, 
this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a fatal 
outcome. 
9 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 8/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
• 
Jcovden: a total of 56,367 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 333 of these reported a 
fatal outcome10,11 (by 14 August 2022, about 19.4 million doses of 
Jcovden had been administered to people in the EU/EEA12) 
•  Nuvaxovid: a total of 1,280 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; none of these reported 
a fatal outcome9,10 (by 14 August 2022, about 262,000 doses of 
Nuvaxovid had been administered to people in the EU/EEA11) 
•  Spikevax: a total of 247,645 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 1,127 of these reported 
a fatal outcome9,10 (by 14 August 2022, about 158 million doses of 
Spikevax had been given to people in the EU/EEA11) 
•  Vaxzevria: a total of 312,032 cases of suspected side effects 
spontaneously reported from EU/EEA countries; 1,564 of these reported 
a fatal outcome9,10 (by 14 August 2022, about 69 million doses of 
Vaxzevria had been given to people in the EU/EEA11). 
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination does 
not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. This may 
have been caused, for example, by health problems not related to 
the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment.  
Planned and ongoing studies 
The companies that market COVID-19 vaccines continue to provide results 
from ongoing clinical trials. They also conduct additional studies to monitor 
the safety and effectiveness of the vaccines as they are used in vaccination 
campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned and ongoing 
safety studies with COVID-19 vaccines, see the respective risk management 
10 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
11 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side effect. 
As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case report, 
the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. Similarly, 
this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a fatal 
outcome. 
12 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these exposure 
data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 9/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccines safety update 
plan: Comirnaty, COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, adjuvanted) Valneva, 
Jcovden, Nuvaxovid, Spikevax and Vaxzevria.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) is in place for each authorised COVID-
19 vaccine: Comirnaty, COVID-19 Vaccine (inactivated, adjuvanted) 
Valneva, Jcovden, Nuvaxovid, Spikevax and Vaxzevria. The PIP describes 
how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s efficacy and safety for its 
potential use in children and adolescents (below 18 years of age). Three 
vaccines are authorised in the EU for use in children and adolescents: 
Comirnaty (as of 5 years), Nuvaxovid (as of 12 years) and Spikevax (as of 
6 years). 
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member States 
looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the safety and 
effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant women. 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 10/10 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
