21 May 2021 
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
VAXZEVRIA 
AstraZeneca AB 
Individuals who previously had blood clots with 
low blood platelets (thrombosis with 
thrombocytopenia syndrome, TTS) after 
Vaxzevria must not be given a second dose of 
Vaxzevria. 
Individuals with low blood platelets within 3 
weeks after vaccination with Vaxzevria should 
be actively investigated for signs of blood clots; 
similarly, individuals who present with blood 
clots within 3 weeks of vaccination should be 
evaluated for low blood platelets. 
Patients who have blood clots with low blood 
platelets after vaccination require specialist 
medical care.  
Hypersensitivity reactions presenting as hives 
or rapid swelling under the skin in areas such 
as the face, lips, mouth and throat are newly 
identified side effects of Vaxzevria.   
Vaxzevria is effective in preventing COVID-19. 
This safety update follows the last update of 11 May 2021. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
Safety updates provide information about the assessments of emerging 
worldwide safety data since marketing authorisation for COVID-19 
vaccines. Safety assessments are carried out primarily by EMA’s 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC). The safety 
updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: authorised.  
All published safety updates for Vaxzevria are available at Vaxzevria: 
safety updates. 
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 29 
January 2021 until 20 May 2021, more than 37 million doses of Vaxzevria 
have been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
1.  Updates on safety of Vaxzevria 
At its meeting held on 20 May 2021, based on new safety data, PRAC 
assessed the following: 
Embolic and thrombotic events with a focus on 
thrombosis with thrombocytopenia 
Further to the PRAC assessment earlier in May 20212, PRAC and the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) finalised the 
updates to the product information of Vaxzevria with regard to thrombosis 
with thrombocytopenia syndrome (TTS, formation of blood clots in the 
vessels with low blood platelets), a very rare side effect. These updates 
include:  
- a contraindication to not vaccinate individuals with Vaxzevria who have 
experienced TTS following vaccination with Vaxzevria;  
- advice that individuals diagnosed with thrombocytopenia within 3 weeks 
after vaccination with Vaxzevria should be actively investigated for signs 
of thrombosis; similarly, individuals who present with thrombosis within 3 
weeks of vaccination should be evaluated for thrombocytopenia; and 
- emphasis that TTS requires specialised clinical management; healthcare 
professionals should consult applicable guidance and/or consult specialists 
(e.g. haematologists, specialists in coagulation) to diagnose and treat this 
condition. 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these data 
from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the European 
Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 See Safety Update for Vaxzevria of 11 May 2021 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
A further direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) will be 
sent out to raise awareness among healthcare professionals. The DHPC 
will be available on a dedicated page on the EMA website3. 
Hypersensitivity reactions - urticaria and 
angioedema  
PRAC concluded an assessment of hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions with 
an update to the product information of Vaxzevria.  
This will now include the hypersensitivity reaction of urticaria (hives 
[raised, red and itchy skin rash]) as a new uncommon side effect (i.e. 
occurring in less than 1 in 100 persons), as well as angioedema (rapid 
swelling under the skin in areas such as the face, lips, mouth and throat, 
which may cause difficulty in swallowing or breathing). For angioedema 
the available data did not allow an estimate of the frequency. 
Hypersensitivity, rash, pruritus (itchy skin) and anaphylaxis (severe 
allergic reaction) are already included in the product information. 
Acute macular neuroretinopathy (AMN) 
PRAC is reviewing adverse event reports of acute macular 
neuroretinopathy (AMN), a rare condition characterised by sudden onset 
of one or more paracentral scotomas, i.e. spots that partially obstruct 
vision. This condition has been reported very rarely after vaccination with 
Vaxzevria. PRAC has requested further data and analyses from the 
marketing authorisation holder to continue the PRAC assessment of 
whether AMN could possibly be caused by Vaxzevria.  
2.  Other information for Vaxzevria 
Vaxzevria (previously COVID-19 Vaccine AstraZeneca) is a vaccine that 
was authorised in the EU on 29 January 2021 for use in people aged 18 
years and older to prevent COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus 
SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a potentially severe disease that may result in 
death. 
Vaxzevria contains an adenovirus that has been modified to carry 
molecules of DNA, which the body uses to temporarily produce the SARS-
CoV-2 spike protein. The spike protein does not cause COVID-19. The 
adenovirus cannot reproduce and does not cause viral disease. 
Before Vaxzevria was granted an EU marketing authorisation, the efficacy 
and safety of the vaccine were assessed through pre-clinical studies and 
large clinical trials. More than 12,000 participants have been given the 
vaccine in clinical trials.  
3 See EMA Public Health Communication of 21 May 2021  
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/5 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
Vaxzevria are usually mild or moderate and get better within a few days 
after vaccination. 
More information on how Vaxzevria works and its use is available in the 
medicine overview. This includes information on use in pregnant and 
breastfeeding women and immunocompromised individuals. 
Information in all EU/EEA languages is available in the product 
information, which includes the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
3.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
Vaxzevria is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in line with the 
pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU regulatory 
network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member States, EMA 
and the European Commission). 
Collecting case reports of suspected side effects 
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors reports of suspected 
side effects observed in vaccinated individuals. These case reports are 
collected and recorded in EudraVigilance, a system operated by EMA for 
managing and analysing information on suspected side effects of 
medicines. 
Vaccinated individuals and healthcare professionals should report 
suspected side effects via the national reporting systems, which also 
contribute to EudraVigilance. For more information, see Reporting 
suspected side effects. Information on how to report in your Member State 
is available in the package leaflet and via the list of national competent 
authorities. 
You may visit EudraVigilance – European database of suspected drug 
reaction reports and search for “COVID-19 VACCINE ASTRAZENECA 
(CHADOX1 NCOV-19)” to see all suspected side effects reported for 
Vaxzevria in the EU/EEA. Please note that these reports describe 
suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. these events may not necessarily 
have been caused by, or be otherwise related to, the vaccine. 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets Vaxzevria will continue to provide results from 
the main clinical trials, which are ongoing. It will also conduct additional 
studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used 
in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned 
and ongoing safety studies for Vaxzevria, see the risk management plan.  
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/5 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
VAXZEVRIA 
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for Vaxzevria is in place. This 
describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s efficacy and 
safety for its potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/5 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
