14 July 2021 
COVID-19 vaccine 
safety update  
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Janssen-Cilag International NV 
The safety of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is continuously monitored and 
safety updates are regularly provided to the public. This document 
outlines the outcomes from the assessment of emerging worldwide safety 
data carried out by EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee 
(PRAC) (see section 1). It also contains high-level information from the 
reporting of suspected adverse reactions, which PRAC takes into account 
in its assessments (see section 2). 
This safety update follows the update of 18 June 2021. 
Main outcomes from PRAC's latest 
safety assessment 
People who have previously had capillary leak 
syndrome must not receive COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen.  
Capillary leak syndrome may also occur as a 
side effect of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen. 
The product information will be updated.    
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is effective in 
preventing COVID-19. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
The safety updates are published regularly at COVID-19 vaccines: 
authorised. All published safety updates for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
are available at COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen: safety updates. 
Since its marketing authorisation in the European Union (EU) on 11 March 
2021 until 4 July 2021, around 8.5 million doses of COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen have been administered in the EU/EEA1. 
Around 8.5 million 
doses administered in EEA 
1.  Updates on safety assessments for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
Based on new safety data including the latest Monthly Summary Safety 
Report (MSSR)2 from the marketing authorisation holder and data 
reported by patients and healthcare professionals to EudraVigilance (see 
section 2), PRAC assessed the following at its meeting held 5 to 8 July 
2021:  
Capillary leak syndrome 
PRAC recommended that people who have previously had capillary leak 
syndrome must not be vaccinated with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen 
(contraindication). The Committee also recommended that capillary leak 
syndrome should be added to the product information as a new side effect 
of the vaccine, together with a warning to raise awareness among 
healthcare professionals and patients of this risk. 
Capillary leak syndrome is a very rare, serious condition that causes fluid 
leakage from small blood vessels (capillaries), resulting in swelling mainly 
in the arms and legs, low blood pressure, thickening of the blood and low 
blood levels of albumin (an important blood protein). 
The product information will be updated to include this side effect with a 
frequency category of ‘unknown frequency’, because it is generally difficult 
to robustly estimate side effect frequencies from cases of suspected side 
1 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein.   
2 Monthly Summary Safety Reports, also referred to as pandemic summary safety 
reports, will be compiled by the marketing authorisation holders to support timely and 
continuous benefit-risk evaluations for COVID-19 vaccines used during the pandemic. 
These reports complement the submission of Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSURs). 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 2/8 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
effects that have been reported spontaneously by healthcare professionals 
or patients. 
PRAC reviewed 3 cases of capillary leak syndrome in people who had 
received COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, which occurred within 2 days of 
vaccination. One of those affected had a history of capillary leak syndrome 
and two of them subsequently died. As of 21 June 2021, more than 18 
million doses of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen had been administered 
worldwide. 
Healthcare professionals should be aware that: 
- COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen must not be given to anyone who has a 
history of capillary leak syndrome; 
- capillary leak syndrome is a very rare, serious condition, which can be 
fatal if untreated (it causes fluid leakage from the capillaries, resulting in 
oedema mainly affecting the limbs, hypotension, haemoconcentration and 
hypoalbuminaemia); 
- there is a risk of recurrence of capillary leak syndrome in people who 
have previously experienced the condition; 
- patients with an acute episode of capillary leak syndrome following 
vaccination require prompt treatment and may require continuous 
specialist monitoring and intensive supportive therapy; and 
- people receiving the vaccine must be instructed to seek medical 
attention if they have signs and symptoms of capillary leak syndrome in 
the days after vaccination, i.e. oedema in the extremities and sudden 
weight gain, which may be associated with feeling faint (due to low blood 
pressure).  
People should be aware that: 
- they must not have this vaccine if they had previously experienced 
capillary leak syndrome.  
People who have been vaccinated with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen should 
be aware that: 
- capillary leak syndrome is a serious condition; while the risk of the 
condition occurring is very low, they should still be aware of the 
symptoms so that they can get prompt medical treatment to help 
recovery and avoid complications; 
- they must seek medical attention immediately if the following symptoms 
occur in the days after vaccination:  
- rapid swelling of the arms and legs; or 
- sudden weight gain,  
which may occur together with feeling faint (due to low blood pressure). 
Questions about the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines in EU Member States 
can be addressed to healthcare professionals or the national health 
authority. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 3/8 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
PRAC will continue to monitor for cases of the condition and will take any 
further actions necessary. PRAC has also asked the company marketing 
the vaccine for further information about a possible mechanism for the 
development of capillary leak syndrome following vaccination. A similar 
review was recently finalised for another COVID-19 vaccine, Vaxzevria3. 
A direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) will be sent in due 
course to healthcare professionals prescribing, dispensing or administering 
the medicine. The DHPC will also be published on a dedicated webpage. 
The PRAC recommendations will be submitted to EMA’s human medicine 
committee, CHMP, for endorsement4. 
Thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome 
(TTS) 
In April and May 2021, the product information for COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen was updated with regard to the very rare risk of thrombosis 
(formation of blood clots in the blood vessels) with thrombocytopenia (low 
blood platelets) syndrome (TTS)5. In July 2021, PRAC updated the risk 
management plan (see section 2) accordingly. Further, PRAC agreed that 
awareness of how to manage TTS should be raised among healthcare 
professionals by means of a direct healthcare professional communication 
(DHPC), covering both TTS and capillary leak syndrome (see above).  
PRAC is keeping TTS under close monitoring   
As of 27 June 2021, 21 cases of suspected TTS with COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen were spontaneously reported to EudraVigilance (see section 2) 
from EU/EEA countries; 4 of these reported a fatal outcome6,7 (these 
suspected TTS figures refer to cases where events of thrombosis and 
thrombocytopenia were reported in combination; further case 
ascertainment is required to confirm TTS in these reported cases). About 
7 million of doses of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen had been given to people 
in the EU/EEA by 20 June 20218. 
3 See safety update for Vaxzevria of 18 June 2021 
4 See EMA public health communication on capillary leak syndrome with COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen of 9 July 2021 
5 See safety update for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen of 11 May 2021 
6 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
7 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side 
effects. As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case 
report, the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. 
Similarly, this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a 
fatal outcome. 
8 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 4/8 
 
  
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) 
As part of the review of the regular MSSRs, PRAC is analysing cases of 
Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) reported following vaccination with COVID-
19 Vaccine Janssen. GBS is an adverse event of special interest for all 
COVID-19 vaccines requiring specific safety monitoring. 
GBS is an immune system disorder that causes nerve inflammation and 
can result in pain, numbness, muscle weakness and difficulty walking. 
A total of 15 cases of GBS had been reported from the EU/EEA to 
EudraVigilance with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen by 27 June 2021, while 
around 7 million doses of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen had been given to 
people in the EU/EEA by 20 June 2021. Reported cases concern suspected 
side effects, i.e. medical events that have been observed after 
vaccination, but which are not necessarily related to or caused by the 
vaccine. At this stage the available data neither confirm nor rule out a 
causal relationship with the vaccine. 
PRAC has requested the marketing authorisation holder to provide further 
detailed data, including an analysis of all the reported cases, for continued 
assessment by PRAC.  
Myocarditis and pericarditis  
PRAC continued its assessment of myocarditis and pericarditis 
(inflammatory conditions of the heart) reported in a small number of 
people after vaccination with COVID-19 vaccines. As of end of May 2021, 
one case of pericarditis was reported from the EU/EEA to EudraVigilance 
(see section 2) after vaccination with COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen and no 
case of myocarditis had been reported for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen by 
that date; 2 million doses of the vaccine had been administered in the 
EU/EEA. Further information is needed to assess whether there is a causal 
relationship between myocarditis/pericarditis and COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen, and PRAC has therefore requested additional data from the 
marketing authorisation holder. 
2.  How safety is monitored 
As for all COVID-19 vaccines, relevant new information emerging on 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is collected and promptly reviewed. This is in 
line with the pharmacovigilance plan for COVID-19 vaccines of the EU 
regulatory network (comprising the regulatory bodies of the EU Member 
States, EMA and the European Commission). 
Case reports of suspected side effects 
Collecting reports of medical events and problems that occur following the 
use of a medicine, and therefore might be side effects, is one of the pillars 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 5/8 
 
  
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
of the EU safety monitoring system. Healthcare professionals and 
vaccinated individuals are encouraged to report to their national 
competent authorities all suspected side effects individuals may have 
experienced after receiving a vaccine even if it is unclear whether the 
vaccine was the cause. For more information on how to report, see 
Reporting suspected side effects.  
These spontaneous reports are collected in EudraVigilance, the EU 
database used for monitoring and analysing suspected side effects. 
Publicly available information can be accessed via EudraVigilance – 
European database of suspected drug reaction reports in all EU/EEA 
languages. Search for “COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN (AD26.COV2.S)” to 
see all suspected side effect cases reported for COVID-19 Vaccine 
Janssen. 
As of 4 July 2021, a total of 12,036 cases of suspected side effects with 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen were spontaneously reported to EudraVigilance 
from EU/EEA countries; 68 of these reported a fatal outcome9,10. Around 
that time, about 8.5 million of doses of COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen had 
been given to people in the EU/EEA11.  
These reports describe suspected side effects in individuals, i.e. 
medical events observed following the use of a vaccine. The fact 
that someone has had a medical issue or died after vaccination 
does not necessarily mean that this was caused by the vaccine. 
This may have been caused, for example, by health problems not 
related to the vaccination.  
The EU regulatory network continuously monitors EudraVigilance to detect 
any new safety issues. EudraVigilance relies on individual healthcare 
professionals and patients to report their own experience. The monitoring 
detects unusual or unexpected patterns in the reports received for further 
investigation and risk assessment. EMA’s detailed assessments take into 
account all available data from all sources to draw a robust conclusion on 
the safety of the vaccine. These data include clinical trial results, reports 
of suspected side effects in EudraVigilance, epidemiological studies 
monitoring the safety of the vaccine, toxicological investigations and any 
other relevant information. 
9 These figures have been calculated excluding cases reported from Northern Ireland (EU 
reporting requirements for suspected adverse reactions to EudraVigilance apply to 
Northern Ireland in accordance with the Protocol on Ireland/Northern Ireland). 
10 Source: EudraVigilance. These figures cannot be extracted directly from the public 
database of suspected adverse reactions, which groups information per type of side 
effects. As more than one suspected side effect may have been included in a single case 
report, the total number of side effects will never match the number of individual cases. 
Similarly, this public database does not provide the total number of cases reported with a 
fatal outcome. 
11 The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) collects these 
exposure data from EU Member States as well as from the additional countries of the 
European Economic Area (EEA) Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 6/8 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
Planned and ongoing studies 
The company that markets COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen will continue to 
provide results from ongoing clinical trials. It will also conduct additional 
studies to monitor the safety and effectiveness of the vaccine as it is used 
in vaccination campaigns and other clinical practice. For the list of planned 
and ongoing safety studies for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen, see the risk 
management plan.  
A paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is in 
place. This describes how the company will collect data on the vaccine’s 
efficacy and safety for its potential use in children.  
In addition, EMA is coordinating observational studies in EU Member 
States looking at real-world data from clinical practice to monitor the 
safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines, including in pregnant 
women. 
3.  Other information for COVID-19 
Vaccine Janssen 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen is a vaccine that was authorised in the EU on 
11 March 2021 for use in people aged 18 years and older to prevent 
COVID-19 when infected with the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. COVID-19 is a 
potentially severe disease that may result in death. 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen contains an adenovirus that has been modified 
to carry molecules of DNA, which the body uses to temporarily produce 
the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein. The spike protein does not cause COVID-
19. The adenovirus cannot reproduce and does not cause viral disease. 
Before COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen was granted an EU marketing 
authorisation, the efficacy and safety of the vaccine were assessed 
through pre-clinical studies and large clinical trials. More than 27,000 
participants had been given the vaccine in clinical trials.  
Like all medicines, this vaccine can cause side effects, although not 
everybody will experience them. The most common side effects known for 
COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen are usually mild or moderate and get better 
within a few days after vaccination. 
More information on how COVID-19 Vaccine Janssen works and its use is 
available in all EU/EEA languages in the medicine overview. This includes 
information on use in pregnant and breastfeeding women and 
immunocompromised individuals. 
The full product information with the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet is also available in all EU/EEA languages. 
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 7/8 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
COVID-19 vaccine safety update 
COVID-19 VACCINE JANSSEN 
European Medicines Agency 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is 
authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
An agency of the European Union   
www.ema.europa.eu 
Page 8/8 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
