EMA/576866/2015 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Cresemba (isavuconazole) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Cresemba, which details the measures to be 
taken in order to ensure that Cresemba is used as safely as possible. For more information on RMP 
summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Cresemba, which can be found on Cresemba’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Cresemba is an azole anti-fungal medicine used to treat adults with either of two life-threatening 
fungal infections: invasive aspergillosis or mucormycosis.  
Aspergillosis is an infection caused by the fungus Aspergillus. Invasive aspergillosis usually affects 
people with weakened immune systems, such as those who have had a bone marrow transplant or a 
solid organ transplant, people receiving chemotherapy for cancer, those who are taking high doses of 
corticosteroids, intensive care unit and surgical patients, and people with advanced human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Invasive aspergillosis occurs rarely in the general population. 
In the United States, up to 3.6 per 100,000 persons are infected annually. People infected with 
invasive aspergillosis can become very sick and even die. 
Mucormycosis (also called zygomycosis) is a rare infection caused by organisms that belong to a group 
of fungi called Mucoromycotina. Mucormycosis infection occurs more commonly among people with 
weakened immune systems, but, rarely, it can occur in people who are otherwise healthy. Risk factors 
for developing mucormycosis include: uncontrolled diabetes, cancer, organ transplantation, 
neutropenia (low white blood cell count), and skin trauma (cuts, scrapes, punctures or burns). Invasive 
mucormycosis is rare in Europe; a study in Italy found that only 0.1% of cases of invasive fungal 
infection were due to mucormycosis. A study in the United States showed that 1.7 persons per million 
of the population develop mucormycosis every year. Invasive mucormycosis can be fatal; 
approximately 64% of those who develop it die from it. 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Studies show that survival following treatment with Cresemba is similar to that seen with other 
treatments. 
In a main study of 516 patients with invasive aspergillosis, the mortality rate at 42 days was similar in 
patients treated with Cresemba (19%) and those treated with another antifungal medicine 
voriconazole (20%). 
Another study included 146 patients, among which 37 patients had mucormycosis and were treated 
with Cresemba; in patients with mucormycosis the mortality rate after 84 days was 43%, which is 
similar to rates seen in the published literature for standard treatments with amphotericin-B. In 
addition, Cresemba has the advantage that it can be used in patients with reduced kidney function. 
Page 1/5 
 
 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
Among Cresemba-treated patients in phase 3 studies, 79.2% were white, 78.9% were aged up to 65 
years, and 60.8% were male. There is no evidence that treatment benefit would be different based on 
gender or age.  
Treatment benefit has not been assessed in patients with severely reduced liver function or in patients 
aged under 18 years. 
In one study in Asian patients, overall, fewer patients responded in the Cresemba group than in the 
voriconazole treatment group. The differences in response rates between Asian and non-Asian patients 
cannot be explained by exposure or by resistance to Cresemba. A potential ethnicity effect can neither 
be excluded nor confirmed.  
The clinical data for Cresemba in the treatment of mucormycosis are limited, comprising data from 
only one clinical study in 37 patients with mucormycosis who received Cresemba as first treatment, or 
because other anti-fungal treatments (mainly amphotericin B) were inappropriate. In Mucorales 
species other than Rhizopus spp., the clinical efficacy data are limited to very small numbers of 
patients, with susceptibility data only available in a subset of cases. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Changes in blood levels of 
Changes in blood levels of liver 
The doctor should consider monitoring 
liver enzymes (elevated 
enzymes were reported in 
liver enzymes levels during treatment 
liver transaminases) and 
Cresemba-treated patients in 
with Cresemba. 
hepatitis 
clinical studies, but rarely 
required stopping the treatment. 
These changes were not 
associated with liver failure.  
Side effects during the 
Low blood pressure, shortness of 
Intravenous infusion of Cresemba 
Cresemba infusion 
breath, dizziness, tingling 
must be given over a minimum of 
(infusion-related 
sensation, nausea, and headache 
1 hour. 
reactions) 
were reported in Cresemba-
treated patients during the 
intravenous infusion in clinical 
studies. 
The healthcare professional should 
stop the infusion if these symptoms 
occur.  
The patient should immediately report 
to the healthcare professional any 
side effects such as shortness of 
breath, dizziness, tingling sensation, , 
nausea, and headache, or suspected 
low blood pressure.  
Severe skin reactions 
In clinical trials, very few 
Cresemba should be discontinued if a 
(severe cutaneous adverse 
Cresemba-treated patients 
patient develops severe skin 
reactions) 
experienced severe skin 
reactions. 
reactions; none of the cases 
required stopping the medicine. 
Page 2/5 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Severe skin reactions, such as 
severe blistering of the skin, 
mouth, eyes and genitals, have 
been reported during treatment 
with other anti-fungal medicines 
belonging to the ‘azole’ class. 
Abnormal heart rhythm 
Some healthy subjects treated 
Cresemba must not be given to 
caused by shortened QT 
with Cresemba experienced 
patients with a specific genetic 
interval (arrhythmia due 
shortening of their QT interval 
condition called ‘familial short QT 
to QT shortening) 
(an interval measured on an 
syndrome’. The doctor should use 
electrocardiogram). It is 
caution when prescribing Cresemba to 
unknown whether QT shortening 
patients who are concurrently taking 
caused by medicines can lead to 
other medicines known to shorten the 
abnormal heart rhythms. 
QT interval. 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Harm to the unborn baby 
Based on studies in animals, Cresemba may harm an unborn baby when 
(teratogenicity ) 
given to a pregnant woman. Bone abnormalities consistent with those 
observed for other azole anti-fungal agents were reported in rats and 
rabbits.  
Cresemba has not been studied in pregnant women. 
Treatment with Cresemba is not recommended during pregnancy, except 
in patients with severe or potentially life-threatening fungal infections 
when the anticipated benefit would outweigh the risk to the unborn baby. 
Women who become pregnant during treatment with Cresemba should 
contact their doctor.  
Effect on children exposed 
In animal studies, Cresemba was detected in the milk of rats following 
to Cresemba via breast 
intravenous administration. It is not known whether Cresemba passes to 
milk 
human breast milk. Women should not breastfeed while taking Cresemba. 
Development of resistant 
Similar to other azole anti-fungal agents, Cresemba may become less 
strains 
effective due to the development of resistance. During clinical studies, the 
emergence of Cresemba resistance among infecting pathogens was not 
identified. 
When administering Cresemba for long periods (beyond 6 months), the 
doctor should consider the possibility of fungus becoming resistant to 
Cresemba. 
Off-label use (use outside 
No information is available regarding off-label uses for Cresemba. 
approved indication) 
However, off-label use (e.g., treatment to prevent fungal infections, 
combination anti-fungal treatment, or high-dose treatment) occurs in 
over one-third of patients treated with voriconazole, another anti-fungal 
Page 3/5 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
medicine. 
Cresemba should only be used in the approved indications (treatment in 
adults for invasive aspergillosis and treatment in adults for 
mucormycosis), and at the dosing regimens recommended in the product 
information. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Use in patients 
below 18 years  
To date, Cresemba has not been studied in juvenile animals, or in 
humans aged under 18 years. 
Use in patients with 
Based on clinical studies, no  dose adjustment of Cresemba is necessary 
severely reduced liver 
in patients with mildly or moderately reduced liver function. Cresemba 
function (use in patients 
has not been studied in patients with severely reduced liver function; 
with severe hepatic 
Cresemba should only be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
impairment) 
if the benefit outweighs the risk. These patients should be carefully 
monitored for potential drug toxicity.  
Efficacy in invasive 
It is unknown why Asian patients enrolled in the aspergillosis study had a 
aspergillosis in Asian 
lower success rate in the Cresemba group than in the voriconazole 
patients 
treatment group. A potential ethnicity effect can neither be excluded nor 
confirmed. 
Efficacy and safety in 
The clinical data for Cresemba in the treatment of mucormycosis are 
patients infected with 
limited to data from one prospective non-controlled clinical study in 37 
Mucorales species 
patients who received Cresemba as a first treatment, or because other 
anti-fungal treatments (mostly amphotericin B) were inappropriate.  
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Cresemba can be found on Cresemba’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Page 4/5 
 
 
 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
List of studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study/activi
ty (including 
study 
number)  
Objectives  
Safety concerns /efficacy 
issue addressed  
Status  
Planned date 
for submission 
of (interim 
and) final 
results  
Registry  
To collect data on 
The clinical data for Cresemba 
Synopsis 
Q2 2016 
efficiency in the 
in the treatment of 
treatment of 
mucormycosis are based on 
Mucorales species. 
one non-controlled clinical 
(Protocol 
submission) 
study in 37 patients. 
For individual Mucorales 
species, the clinical efficacy 
data are very limited, often to 
one or two patients. 
Susceptibility data were 
available in only a small subset 
of cases. 
Studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies that are a condition of the marketing authorisation. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable 
This summary was last updated in 08-2015. 
Page 5/5 
 
 
