25 July 2022 
EMA/OD/0000051257 
EMADOC-1700519818-877639 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Crysvita (burosumab) 
Treatment of phosphaturic mesenchymal tumour 
EU/3/18/2011 
Sponsor: Kyowa Kirin Holdings B.V.     
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
2.1. Orphan medicinal product designation .............................................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of type II variation
 .................................................................................................................... 5 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 5 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 7 
4. COMP position adopted on 24 June 2022 ................................................. 9 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000051257 
Page 2/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Designated active substance(s) 
Burosumab 
Other name(s) 
- 
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Burosumab 
Tradename 
Orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details: 
Crysvita 
Treatment of phosphaturic mesenchymal tumour  
Kyowa Kirin Holdings B.V.   
Bloemlaan 2 
2132 NP Hoofddorp  
Noord-Holland 
Netherlands  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion 
EC decision 
EC registration number  
Ultragenyx Germany GmbH 
15 March 2018 
16 April 2018 
EU/3/18/2011 
Post-designation procedural history 
Transfer of sponsorship  
From Ultragenyx Germany GmbH to Kyowa Kirin 
Holdings B.V.  – EC decision of 12 February 2019 
COMP opinion on review of orphan 
15 January 2018 
designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation  
Marketing authorisation type II variation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
Kristina Dunder/ Jayne Crowe 
Applicant 
Application submission 
Procedure start 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Kyowa Kirin Holdings B.V.   
17 December 2020 
23 January 2021 
EMA/H/C/004275/II/0023 
Crysvita 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
Extension of indication to include treatment of FGF23-
related hypophosphataemia in tumour-induced 
osteomalacia (TIO) associated with phosphaturic 
mesenchymal tumours that cannot be curatively 
resected or localised in patients aged 1 year and 
over, based on data from two ongoing open-label 
clinical studies, UX023T-CL201 and KRN23-002, in 
adults with TIO (144-week data and 88-week data 
are available, respectively) 
Further information on Crysvita can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website 
ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/crysvita  
CHMP opinion 
23 June 2022 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000051257 
Page 3/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
Bozenna Dembowska-Baginska / 
Sponsor’s report submission 
COMP discussion  
Elisabeth Johanne Rook 
19 February 2021 
14-16 June 2022  
COMP opinion (adoption via written 
24 June 2022 
procedure) 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
2.1.  Orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in designation was based 
on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing burosumab was 
considered justified based on preliminary clinical data demonstrating that treatment increased 
serum phosphorus leading to improvements in fatigue and pain in patients affected by tumour-
induced osteomalacia associated with the condition; 
the condition is chronically debilitating due to severe osteomalacia and low bone density leading to 
severe symptoms of musculoskeletal pain, fractures, muscle weakness, fatigue, and difficulty with 
ambulation. In rare cases tumours can be malignant that may metastasise and cause death;  
the condition was estimated to be affecting less than 0.01 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time the application was made. 
Thus, the requirements under Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal 
products are fulfilled. 
In addition, although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition exist in the European Union, 
the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the medicinal product 
containing burosumab will be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition. The sponsor has 
provided preliminary clinical data to support significant benefit. Patients were affected by the condition 
and had tumour-induced osteomalacia that was not curable by surgical resection and was inadequately 
managed by the currently authorised products for rickets and osteomalacia. Treatment with the 
product increased serum phosphorus leading to improvements in fatigue and pain. The Committee 
considered that this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage for patients affected by tumour-induced 
osteomalacia associated with the condition. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000051257 
Page 4/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
type II variation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Phosphaturic mesenchymal tumours (PMT), also described in the literature as phosphaturic 
mesenchymal tumour of mixed connective tissue type (PMTMCT), are a mesenchymal tumour 
distinguished by a distinctive morphology. This is the only orphan designation for the condition.  
Most phosphaturic mesenchymal tumours present as nonspecific soft tissue or bone masses, often with 
a component of fat. Some may be highly calcified.  
PMTs are fundamentally composed of a hypocellular proliferation of bland neoplastic spindled cells 
growing in a highly vascular, hyalinized, partially calcified basophilic matrix. Individual PMT, however, 
show significant differences in cellularity, vascularity, and matrix composition, and thus, the 
morphological spectrum of PMT is broad, undoubtedly accounting for historical confusion of PMT with 
other mesenchymal tumour types. 
PMTs may occur in any soft tissue or bone location. In soft tissues, PMTs often involve the extremities 
and acral sites, whereas bone tumours commonly involve the appendicular skeleton, cranial bones, and 
paranasal sinuses. They are extremely rare in the retroperitoneum, viscera and mediastinum. 
The vast majority of PMTs are benign mesenchymal neoplasms and not considered sarcomas. A few 
cases of malignant tumours have been reported, which are considered sarcomas. Malignant tumours 
may metastasise and cause death from disease. 
Expression of FGF23 protein has been documented in some tumours. FGF23 is a phosphaturic hormone 
that inhibits renal proximal tubule phosphate re-uptake.  Elevated serum levels of FGF23 can be 
demonstrated in patients with phosphaturic mesenchymal tumour associated (TIO).  
The World Health Organization in the 2013 Classification of Tumours of Soft Tissue and Bone define 
PMT as “morphologically distinctive neoplasms that produce tumour-inducted osteomalacia (TIO) in 
most affected patients, usually through production of fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23)”. Historically, 
it was felt that any mesenchymal tumour type could occasionally cause TIO. However, over time it was 
recognised that most TIO-associated tumours represented examples of this single histopathologic 
entity also recognised since 2013 by the WHO. The literature also describes soft tissue and bone 
tumours showing morphological features of PMT with demonstrable expression of FGF23 but without 
known TIO. Such tumours have been referred to by some as the “non-phosphaturic” variant of PMT. 
Also, there are PMT with known TIO, which are FGF23-negative, reflecting production of other 
phosphaturic hormones. 
The approved therapeutic indication “CRYSVITA is indicated for the treatment of FGF23-related 
hypophosphataemia in tumour-induced osteomalacia associated with phosphaturic mesenchymal 
tumours that cannot be curatively resected or localised in patients aged 1 year and over" falls within 
the scope of the designated orphan condition “Treatment of phosphaturic mesenchymal tumour”.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000051257 
Page 5/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been confirmed by the positive benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP, see 
EPAR. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
The sponsor discusses PMT to be chronically debilitating due to very severe osteomalacia (often 
extremely low bone density) and severe symptoms of musculoskeletal pain, fractures, muscle 
weakness, fatigue, and difficulty with ambulation. This profoundly impacts the affected individual’s 
day-to-day functioning and quality of life. In adults, due to the latency of diagnosis, PMTs typically 
present with severe progressive fatigue, profound muscle weakness, and bone pain caused by severe 
osteomalacia/rickets that leads to fractures of the long bones, vertebra, and ribs.  
Tumour-inducted osteomalacia (TIO) is a major clinical manifestation of PMT. TIO is characterized by 
high FGF23 levels caused by the PMT that results in hypophosphatemia due to renal phosphate wasting 
and low or inappropriately normal 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin D levels. In children, in whom TIO (major 
clinical manifestation of PMT) is rarer than in adults, the condition may present with generalized 
osteopenia, rickets, pseudo fractures, bowing of the extremities, gait abnormalities, growth 
retardation, and pain in the bones, joints, and muscles. 
The sponsor does not discuss the condition to be life-threatening. Nevertheless, it can be found in the 
literature that malignant tumours may metastasise and cause death from the disease. 
The sponsor has provided an adequate discussion on the morbidity of the condition. The COMP deems 
the condition to be chronically debilitating due to severe osteomalacia and low bone density leading to 
severe symptoms of musculoskeletal pain, fractures, muscle weakness, fatigue, and difficulty with 
ambulation. In rare cases tumours can be malignant that may metastasise and cause death 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor has assumed that most cases of PMT will have tumour-inducted osteomalacia (TIO). This 
assumption is used as the basis for the prevalence estimate for the maintenance report. Those patients 
with PMT that don’t present with TIO have not been considered as it is assumed that they will not 
make a significant difference to the overall prevalence estimate. 
The sponsor provided the result obtained from a Danish Registry where the epidemiological results of a 
survey for the incidence and prevalence of TIO are reported. (Abrahamsen B et al, Calcified Tissue 
International, published on line 5 April 2021). The incidence is 0.13 in 100,000 and the prevalence is 
reported to be 0.09 in 100,000.  
A literature search has also been conducted. The sponsor notes that in Florenzano et al 2020 just over 
1000 cases have been reported worldwide of which 10% are in Europe. 
Using the 111 total reported EU cases from 2006-2020 and an EU Community population estimated at 
513,471,676 (Eurostat 2019), the prevalence of TIO is approximately 0.0022 per 10,000 individuals 
(i.e., [111 cases ÷ 513,471,676] x 10,000).  The sponsor thinks that these numbers are likely to 
underestimate prevalence, since some cases may go unreported and unpublished, although this 
calculation also assumes that all patients reported during the period 2006-2017 were still alive at the 
end of the reporting period. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000051257 
Page 6/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Results from the observational, open cohort epidemiology study carried out in Denmark estimate the 
prevalence of TIO to be no more than 0.70 per 100,000 persons for the total population and 0.26 per 
100,000 persons in adults. 
The COMP accepted the Danish estimate of 0.07 in 10,000 for the purpose of Maintenance of the 
Orphan Designation. 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
There are currently no products authorised specifically for PMT. Conventional chemotherapeutics that 
are authorised for the treatment of soft tissue sarcoma, are also considered to be authorised for PMT.  
The current best standard of care for PMT includes surgery when the PMT is limited and localised. 
Surgery with wide margins can be performed, which usually cures PMT. After tumour removal, bone 
healing starts immediately, and most patients experience symptomatic improvement within days to 
weeks. Within 72 hours phosphate homeostasis normalises, though it can take many months for 
resolution of osteomalacia. Hence, curative surgery is a satisfactory method. 
The proposed treatment for designation is not considered to be disease modifying but treat TIO as a 
major manifestation. The conventional therapy regimen is the same as that used for treatment of X-
linked hypophosphatemia. Experts recommend multiple high daily doses of supplemental oral 
phosphate and/or active vitamin D therapy (e.g., calcitrol or alfacalcidiol) that are individualized to 
each patient. If the causative tumour/lesion is subsequently found and successfully resected, drug 
therapy can be discontinued. Calcium supplementation may also be added at the beginning of 
conventional therapy to aid in bone healing.  
No treatments are specifically authorised for the treatment of TIO, nevertheless symptomatic 
treatments that are authorised and indicated for hypophosphatemia vitamin D resistant rickets (also 
referred to as hypophosphatemia rickets), rickets and osteomalacia are available including active forms 
of Vitamin D (alfacalcidol and calcitrol) and phosphate. 
Significant benefit 
The sponsor believes that their product could offer significant benefit in patients in unresectable PMTs 
or who have had an inadequate response to surgery. The sponsor did not come for protocol assistance 
regarding significant benefit. 
Two trials were used to support significant benefit. 
1.  Study UX023T-CT201. This was an open-label, multicentre, Phase II study designed to assess the 
efficacy, safety, pharmacokinetics (PK), and pharmacodynamics (PD) of burosumab in adult 
subjects with TIO or epidermal naevus syndrome (ENS) associated osteomalacia based on 
evidence of excessive FGF23 that is not amendable to cure by surgical excision of the 
tumour/lesion. This was a 48-week treatment period followed by a treatment extension period of 
up to 300weeks. All subjects received SC burosumab at a starting dose of 0.3mg/kg Q4w. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000051257 
Page 7/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Figure 1.  Tumour Disposition at Study Baseline (UX023T-CL201) 
2.  Study KRN23-002 an open label, multicentre, Phase 2 study designed to assess the efficacy, 
safety, PK and PD of burosumab in adult subjects with TIO or ENS-associated osteomalacia based 
on evidence of excessive FGF23 that is not amenable to cure by surgical excision of the 
tumour/lesion. 
In Study KRN023-002, the tumour location and type had been identified prior to the study for nine of 
13 subjects (69%). Tumours had never been located in 4/13 subjects (31%), and TIO had been 
diagnosed based on clinical symptoms and biochemical evidence. The planned study treatment is 144 
weeks or until the study drug is commercially available in the subject's local territory. The study was 
ongoing as of the data cut-off date for week 88 CSR. 
In total, not more than 27 subjects were enrolled in the two studies in the application to extend the 
indication for Crysvita to include treatment of FGF23-related hypophosphataemia in tumour-induced 
osteomalacia associated with phosphaturic mesenchymal tumours that cannot be curatively resected or 
localised, in patients aged 1 year and over. 
In total, 50% of the subjects in UX023T-CL201 and 69% in KRN023-002 reached the endpoint of 
achieving mean serum phosphorus levels above the lower limit of normal at the mid-point of the dose 
interval. The two TIO-studies also showed an increase in serum phosphate compared to the baseline 
level. This increase is of clinical relevance. The number of new fractures/pseudofractures decreased 
over time in Study UX023T-CL201. This is also considered clinically relevant. The mobility data as 
assessed by the 6-minute walking test and the sit-to-stand test offers some support also to the clinical 
data. 
As the patients recruited into both these studies comprised primarily of patients with phosphaturic 
mesenchymal tumours which could not be resected surgically, the COMP considered that the results of 
these two studies could be used to support a clinically relevant advantage for significant benefit over 
surgery. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000051257 
Page 8/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on 24 June 2022 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan condition of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product. 
the prevalence of phosphaturic mesenchymal tumour (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) 
was estimated to remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be 0.07 in 10,000 persons in the 
European Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is chronically debilitating due to severe osteomalacia and low bone density leading to 
fractures, severe symptoms of musculoskeletal pain, muscle weakness, fatigue, and difficulty with 
ambulation. In rare cases tumours can be malignant that may metastasise and cause death; 
although satisfactory methods for the Treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the assumption that Crysvita may be of potential significant benefit to those 
affected by the orphan condition. Clinical trial data showed an increase in serum phosphate 
compared to the baseline level and a reduction in the spontaneous fractures in patients who had 
tumours which were not surgically resectable.  
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Crysvita, burosumab, for 
treatment of phosphaturic mesenchymal tumour (EU/3/18/2011) is not removed from the Community 
Register of Orphan Medicinal Products. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000051257 
Page 9/9 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
