MK-3009
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 12.0
PAGE 50
DAPTOMYCIN
PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN BY PRODUCT
Summary of risk management plan for daptomycin (CUBICIN)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for daptomycin (CUBICIN). The 
RMP details important risks of daptomycin, how these risks can be minimized, and how 
more information will be obtained about the risks and uncertainties (missing information) for 
use of daptomycin.
Daptomycin’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how daptomycin should be 
used.
This summary of the RMP for daptomycin should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all of which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
daptomycin’s RMP.
I.
The Medicine and What it is Used for
Daptomycin is authorized for the treatment of complicated skin and soft tissue infections 
(cSSTI), Staphylococcus aureus bacteraemia (SAB) when associated with cSSTI in adults 
and pediatric patients (1 to 17 years of age) and right-sided infective endocarditis (RIE) due 
to Staphylococcus aureus in adults (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains daptomycin
as the active substance and it is given by intravenous infusion.
Further information about the evaluation of daptomycin’s benefits can be found in 
daptomycin’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/overview/Cubicin-epar-summary-public_en.pdf
II.
Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or Further 
Characterize the Risks 
Important risks of daptomycin, together with measures to minimise such risks and the
proposed studies for learning more about the risks associated with daptomycin risks, are 
outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet (where applicable) and product labeling addressed to patients and 
healthcare professionals;

Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
05FFM9
05F93Y
 
 
 
 
MK-3009
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 12.0
PAGE 51
DAPTOMYCIN
 The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly;
 The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.
II.A
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of daptomycin are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of daptomycin. Potential 
risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on 
available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. 
Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine);
Table II.A.1:
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
None 
None
None 
II.B
Summary of Important Risks
The safety information in the Summary of Product Characteristics is aligned to the reference 
medicinal product.
II.C
Post-Authorisation Development Plan
II.C.1
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of daptomycin.
II.C.2
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan
There are no studies required for daptomycin.
05FFM9
05F93Y
 
 
 
 
