ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Cubicin 350 mg powder for solution for injection or infusion
Cubicin 500 mg powder for solution for injection or infusion
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Cubicin 350 mg powder for solution for injection or infusion
Each vial contains 350 mg daptomycin.
One ml provides 50 mg of daptomycin after reconstitution with 7 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml
(0.9 %) solution.
Cubicin 500 mg powder for solution for injection or infusion
Each vial contains 500 mg daptomycin.
One ml provides 50 mg of daptomycin after reconstitution with 10 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml
(0.9 %) solution.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Powder for solution for injection or infusion
A pale yellow to light brown lyophilised cake or powder.
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1  Therapeutic indications
Cubicin is indicated for the treatment of the following infections (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).
- 
Adult and paediatric (1 to 17 years of age) patients with complicated skin and soft-tissue
infections (cSSTI).
- 
- 
Adult patients with right-sided infective endocarditis (RIE) due to Staphylococcus aureus. It is
recommended that the decision to use daptomycin should take into account the antibacterial
susceptibility of the organism and should be based on expert advice. See sections 4.4 and 5.1.
Adult and paediatric (1 to 17 years of age) patients with Staphylococcus aureus bacteraemia
(SAB). In adults, use in bacteraemia should be associated with RIE or with cSSTI, while in
paediatric patients, use in bacteraemia should be associated with cSSTI.
Daptomycin is active against Gram positive bacteria only (see section 5.1). In mixed infections where
Gram negative and/or certain types of anaerobic bacteria are suspected, Cubicin should be
co-administered with appropriate antibacterial agent(s).
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.
4.2  Posology and method of administration
Clinical studies in patients employed infusion of daptomycin over at least 30 minutes. There is no
clinical experience in patients with the administration of daptomycin as an injection over 2 minutes.
This mode of administration was only studied in healthy subjects. However, when compared with the
same doses given as intravenous infusions over 30 minutes there were no clinically important
differences in the pharmacokinetics and safety profile of daptomycin (see sections 4.8 and 5.2).
2
Posology
Adults
- 
cSSTI without concurrent SAB: Cubicin 4 mg/kg is administered once every 24 hours for
7-14 days or until the infection is resolved (see section 5.1).
- 
cSSTI with concurrent SAB: Cubicin 6 mg/kg is administered once every 24 hours. See below
for dose adjustments in patients with renal impairment. The duration of therapy may need to be
longer than 14 days in accordance with the perceived risk of complications in the individual
patient.
- 
Known or suspected RIE due to Staphylococcus aureus: Cubicin 6 mg/kg is administered once
every 24 hours. See below for dose adjustments in patients with renal impairment. The duration
of therapy should be in accordance with available official recommendations.
Cubicin is administered intravenously in 0.9 % sodium chloride (see section 6.6). Cubicin should not
be used more frequently than once a day.
Creatine phosphokinase (CPK) levels must be measured at baseline and at regular intervals (at least
weekly) during treatment (see section 4.4).
Renal impairment
Daptomycin is eliminated primarily by the kidney.
Due to limited clinical experience (see table and footnotes below) Cubicin should only be used in
adult patients with any degree of renal impairment (CrCl < 80 ml/min) when it is considered that the
expected clinical benefit outweighs the potential risk. The response to treatment, renal function and
creatine phosphokinase (CPK) levels should be closely monitored in all patients with any degree of
renal impairment (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). The dosage regimen for Cubicin in paediatric patients
with renal impairment has not been established.
Dose adjustments in adult patients with renal impairment by indication and creatinine clearance
Indication for use 
Creatinine clearance 
Dose recommendation
Comments
cSSTI without SAB 
 30 ml/min 
4 mg/kg once daily
See section 5.1
RIE or cSSTI
associated with
SAB
< 30 ml/min 
4 mg/kg every 48 hours
(1, 2)
 30 ml/min
6 mg/kg once daily
See section 5.1
< 30 ml/min
6 mg/kg every 48 hours
(1, 2)
cSSTI = complicated skin and soft-tissue infections; SAB = S. aureus bacteraemia 
(1) The safety and efficacy of the dose interval adjustment have not been evaluated in controlled
clinical trials and the recommendation is based on pharmacokinetic studies and modelling results (see
sections 4.4 and 5.2).
(2) The same dose adjustments, which are based on pharmacokinetic data in volunteers including PK
modelling results, are recommended for adult patients on haemodialysis (HD) or continuous
ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). Whenever possible, Cubicin should be administered
following the completion of dialysis on dialysis days (see section 5.2).
Hepatic impairment
No dose adjustment is necessary when administering Cubicin to patients with mild or moderate
3
 

 
 
 
 

 
hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class B) (see section 5.2). No data are available in patients with
severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C). Therefore caution should be exercised if Cubicin is
given to such patients.
Elderly patients
The recommended doses should be used in elderly patients except those with severe renal impairment
(see above and section 4.4).
Paediatric population (1 to 17 years of age)
The recommended dosage regimens for paediatric patients based on age and indication are shown
below.
Age Group
cSSTI without SAB 
cSSTI associated with SAB 
Indication
Duration of
Therapy
Up to 14 days
12 to 17
years
7 to 11
years
Dosage Regimen
5 mg/kg once every
24 hours infused over
30 minutes
7 mg/kg once every
24 hours infused over
30 minutes
9 mg/kg once every
2 to 6 years
24 hours infused over
60 minutes
1 to < 2
years
10 mg/kg once every 
24 hours infused over 
60 minutes 
Dosage Regimen
7 mg/kg once every
24 hours infused over
30 minutes
9 mg/kg once every
24 hours infused over
30 minutes
12 mg/kg once every
24 hours infused over
60 minutes
12 mg/kg once every
24 hours infused over
60 minutes
Duration of
Therapy
(1)
cSSTI = complicated skin and soft-tissue infections; SAB = S. aureus bacteraemia; 
(1) Minimum duration of Cubicin for paediatric SAB should be in accordance with the perceived risk
of complications in the individual patient. The duration of Cubicin may need to be longer than
14 days in accordance with the perceived risk of complications in the individual patient. In the
paediatric SAB study, the mean duration of IV Cubicin was 12 days, with a range of 1 to 44 days. The
duration of therapy should be in accordance with available official recommendations.
Cubicin is administered intravenously in 0.9 % sodium chloride (see section 6.6). Cubicin should not
be used more frequently than once a day.
Creatine phosphokinase (CPK) levels must be measured at baseline and at regular intervals (at least
weekly) during treatment (see section 4.4).
Paediatric patients below the age of one year should not be given Cubicin due to the risk of potential
effects on muscular, neuromuscular and/or nervous systems (either peripheral and/or central) that
were observed in neonatal dogs (see section 5.3).
Method of administration
In adults, Cubicin is given by intravenous infusion (see section 6.6) and administered over a
30-minute period or by intravenous injection (see section 6.6) and administered over a 2-minute
period.
In paediatric patients aged 7 to 17 years, Cubicin is given by intravenous infusion over a 30-minute
period (see section 6.6). In paediatric patients aged 1 to 6 years, Cubicin is given by intravenous
infusion over a 60-minute period (see section 6.6).
4
For instructions on reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see
section 6.6.
4.3  Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use
General
If a focus of infection other than cSSTI or RIE is identified after initiation of Cubicin therapy
consideration should be given to instituting alternative antibacterial therapy that has been
demonstrated to be efficacious in the treatment of the specific type of infection(s) present.
Anaphylaxis/hypersensitivity reactions
Anaphylaxis/hypersensitivity reactions have been reported with Cubicin. If an allergic reaction to
Cubicin occurs, discontinue use and institute appropriate therapy.
Pneumonia
It has been demonstrated in clinical studies that Cubicin is not effective in the treatment of
pneumonia. Cubicin is therefore not indicated for the treatment of pneumonia.
RIE due to Staphylococcus aureus
Clinical data on the use of Cubicin to treat RIE due to Staphylococcus aureus are limited to 19 adult
patients (see “Clinical efficacy in adults” in section 5.1). The safety and efficacy of Cubicin in
children and adolescents aged below 18 years with right-sided infective endocarditis (RIE) due to
Staphylococcus aureus have not been established.
The efficacy of Cubicin in patients with prosthetic valve infections or with left-sided infective
endocarditis due to Staphylococcus aureus has not been demonstrated.
Deep-seated infections
Patients with deep-seated infections should receive any required surgical interventions (e.g.
debridement, removal of prosthetic devices, valve replacement surgery) without delay.
Enterococcal infections
There is insufficient evidence to be able to draw any conclusions regarding the possible clinical
efficacy of Cubicin against infections due to enterococci, including Enterococcus faecalis and
Enterococcus faecium. In addition, dose regimens of daptomycin that might be appropriate for the
treatment of enterococcal infections, with or without bacteraemia, have not been identified. Failures
with daptomycin in the treatment of enterococcal infections that were mostly accompanied by
bacteraemia have been reported. In some instances treatment failure has been associated with the
selection of organisms with reduced susceptibility or frank resistance to daptomycin (see section 5.1).
Non-susceptible micro-organisms
The use of antibacterials may promote the overgrowth of non-susceptible micro-organisms. If
superinfection occurs during therapy, appropriate measures should be taken.
Clostridioides difficile-associated diarrhoea
Clostridioides difficile-associated diarrhoea (CDAD) has been reported with Cubicin (see
section 4.8). If CDAD is suspected or confirmed, Cubicin may need to be discontinued and
appropriate treatment instituted as clinically indicated.
Drug/laboratory test interactions
False prolongation of prothrombin time (PT) and elevation of international normalised ratio (INR)
have been observed when certain recombinant thromboplastin reagents are utilised for the assay (see
section 4.5).
5
Creatine phosphokinase and myopathy
Increases in plasma creatine phosphokinase (CPK; MM isoenzyme) levels associated with muscular
pains and/or weakness and cases of myositis, myoglobinaemia and rhabdomyolysis have been
reported during therapy with Cubicin (see sections 4.5, 4.8 and 5.3). In clinical studies, marked
increases in plasma CPK to > 5x Upper Limit of Normal (ULN) without muscle symptoms occurred
more commonly in Cubicin-treated patients (1.9 %) than in those that received comparators (0.5 %).
Therefore, it is recommended that:
Plasma CPK should be measured at baseline and at regular intervals (at least once weekly)
during therapy in all patients.
CPK should be measured more frequently (e.g. every 2-3 days at least during the first two
weeks of treatment) in patients who are at higher risk of developing myopathy. For example,
patients with any degree of renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 80 ml/min; see
section 4.2), including those on haemodialysis or CAPD, and patients taking other medicinal
products known to be associated with myopathy (e.g. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, fibrates
and ciclosporin).
It cannot be ruled out that those patients with CPK greater than 5 times upper limit of normal at
baseline may be at increased risk of further increases during daptomycin therapy. This should
be taken into account when initiating daptomycin therapy and, if daptomycin is given, these
patients should be monitored more frequently than once weekly.
Cubicin should not be administered to patients who are taking other medicinal products
associated with myopathy unless it is considered that the benefit to the patient outweighs the
risk.
Patients should be reviewed regularly while on therapy for any signs or symptoms that might
represent myopathy.
Any patient that develops unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, weakness or cramps should
have CPK levels monitored every 2 days. Cubicin should be discontinued in the presence of
unexplained muscle symptoms if the CPK level reaches greater than 5 times upper limit of
normal.
Peripheral neuropathy
Patients who develop signs or symptoms that might represent a peripheral neuropathy during therapy
with Cubicin should be investigated and consideration should be given to discontinuation of
daptomycin (see sections 4.8 and 5.3).
Paediatric population
Paediatric patients below the age of one year should not be given Cubicin due to the risk of potential
effects on muscular, neuromuscular, and/or nervous systems (either peripheral and/or central) that
were observed in neonatal dogs (see section 5.3).
Eosinophilic pneumonia
Eosinophilic pneumonia has been reported in patients receiving Cubicin (see section 4.8). In most
reported cases associated with Cubicin, patients developed fever, dyspnoea with hypoxic respiratory
insufficiency, and diffuse pulmonary infiltrates or organising pneumonia. The majority of cases
occurred after more than 2 weeks of treatment with Cubicin and improved when Cubicin was
discontinued and steroid therapy was initiated. Recurrence of eosinophilic pneumonia upon re-
exposure has been reported. Patients who develop these signs and symptoms while receiving Cubicin
should undergo prompt medical evaluation, including, if appropriate, bronchoalveolar lavage, to
exclude other causes (e.g. bacterial infection, fungal infection, parasites, other medicinal products).
Cubicin should be discontinued immediately and treatment with systemic steroids should be initiated
when appropriate.
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions
Severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) including drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic
symptoms (DRESS) and vesiculobullous rash with or without mucous membrane involvement
6

 

 

 

 

 

 
(Stevens-Johnson Syndrome (SJS) or Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis (TEN)), which could be
life-threatening or fatal, have been reported with daptomycin (see section 4.8). At the time of
prescription, patients should be advised of the signs and symptoms of severe skin reactions, and be
closely monitored. If signs and symptoms suggestive of these reactions appear, Cubicin should be
discontinued immediately and an alternative treatment should be considered. If the patient has
developed a severe cutaneous adverse reaction with the use of daptomycin, treatment with daptomycin
must not be restarted in this patient at any time.
Tubulointerstitial nephritis
Tubulointerstitial nephritis (TIN) has been reported in post-marketing experience with daptomycin.
Patients who develop fever, rash, eosinophilia and/or new or worsening renal impairment while
receiving Cubicin should undergo medical evaluation. If TIN is suspected, Cubicin should be
discontinued promptly and appropriate therapy and/or measures should be taken.
Renal impairment
Renal impairment has been reported during treatment with Cubicin. Severe renal impairment may in
itself also pre-dispose to elevations in daptomycin levels which may increase the risk of development
of myopathy (see above).
An adjustment of Cubicin dose interval is needed for adult patients whose creatinine clearance is
< 30 ml/min (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). The safety and efficacy of the dose interval adjustment have
not been evaluated in controlled clinical trials and the recommendation is mainly based on
pharmacokinetic modelling data. Cubicin should only be used in such patients when it is considered
that the expected clinical benefit outweighs the potential risk.
Caution is advised when administering Cubicin to patients who already have some degree of renal
impairment (creatinine clearance < 80 ml/min) before commencing therapy with Cubicin. Regular
monitoring of renal function is advised (see section 5.2).
In addition, regular monitoring of renal function is advised during concomitant administration of
potentially nephrotoxic agents, regardless of the patient’s pre-existing renal function (see section 4.5).
The dosage regimen for Cubicin in paediatric patients with renal impairment has not been established.
Obesity
In obese subjects with Body Mass Index (BMI) > 40 kg/m2 but with creatinine clearance > 70 ml/min,
the AUC0-∞ daptomycin was significantly increased (mean 42 % higher) compared with non-obese
matched controls. There is limited information on the safety and efficacy of daptomycin in the very
obese and so caution is recommended. However, there is currently no evidence that a dose reduction
is required (see section 5.2).
Sodium
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially
‘sodium-free’.
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Daptomycin undergoes little to no Cytochrome P450 (CYP450)-mediated metabolism. It is unlikely
that daptomycin will inhibit or induce the metabolism of medicinal products metabolised by the P450
system.
Interaction studies for Cubicin were performed with aztreonam, tobramycin, warfarin and probenecid.
Daptomycin had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of warfarin or probenecid, nor did these medicinal
products alter the pharmacokinetics of daptomycin. The pharmacokinetics of daptomycin were not
significantly altered by aztreonam.
7
Although small changes in the pharmacokinetics of daptomycin and tobramycin were observed during
co-administration by intravenous infusion over a 30-minute period using a Cubicin dose of 2 mg/kg,
the changes were not statistically significant. The interaction between daptomycin and tobramycin
with an approved dose of Cubicin is unknown. Caution is warranted when Cubicin is co-administered
with tobramycin.
Experience with the concomitant administration of Cubicin and warfarin is limited. Studies of
Cubicin with anticoagulants other than warfarin have not been conducted. Anticoagulant activity in
patients receiving Cubicin and warfarin should be monitored for the first several days after therapy
with Cubicin is initiated.
There is limited experience regarding concomitant administration of daptomycin with other medicinal
products that may trigger myopathy (e.g. HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors). However, some cases of
marked rises in CPK levels and cases of rhabdomyolysis occurred in adult patients taking one of these
medicinal products at the same time as Cubicin. It is recommended that other medicinal products
associated with myopathy should if possible be temporarily discontinued during treatment with
Cubicin unless the benefits of concomitant administration outweigh the risk. If co-administration
cannot be avoided, CPK levels should be measured more frequently than once weekly and patients
should be closely monitored for any signs or symptoms that might represent myopathy. See
sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.3.
Daptomycin is primarily cleared by renal filtration and so plasma levels may be increased during
co-administration with medicinal products that reduce renal filtration (e.g. NSAIDs and COX-2
inhibitors). In addition, there is a potential for a pharmacodynamic interaction to occur during
co-administration due to additive renal effects. Therefore, caution is advised when daptomycin is
co-administered with any other medicinal product known to reduce renal filtration.
During post–marketing surveillance, cases of interference between daptomycin and particular reagents
used in some assays of prothrombin time/international normalised ratio (PT/INR) have been reported.
This interference led to a false prolongation of PT and elevation of INR. If unexplained abnormalities
of PT/INR are observed in patients taking daptomycin, consideration should be given to a possible in
vitro interaction with the laboratory test. The possibility of erroneous results may be minimised by
drawing samples for PT or INR testing near the time of trough plasma concentrations of daptomycin
(see section 4.4).
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
No clinical data on pregnancies are available for daptomycin. Animal studies do not indicate direct or
indirect harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, embryonal/foetal development, parturition or
postnatal development (see section 5.3).
Cubicin should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary i.e., only if the expected benefit
outweighs the possible risk.
Breast-feeding
In a single human case study, Cubicin was intravenously administered daily for 28 days to a nursing
mother at a dose of 500 mg/day, and samples of the patient’s breast milk were collected over a
24-hour period on day 27. The highest measured concentration of daptomycin in the breast milk was
0.045 µg/ml, which is a low concentration. Therefore, until more experience is gained, breast-feeding
should be discontinued when Cubicin is administered to nursing women.
Fertility
No clinical data on fertility are available for daptomycin. Animal studies do not indicate direct or
indirect harmful effects with respect to fertility (see section 5.3).
8
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines
No studies on the effects on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed.
On the basis of reported adverse drug reactions, Cubicin is presumed to be unlikely to produce an
effect on the ability to drive or use machinery.
4.8  Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
In clinical studies, 2,011 adult subjects received Cubicin. Within these trials, 1,221 subjects received
a daily dose of 4 mg/kg, of whom 1,108 were patients and 113 were healthy volunteers; 460 subjects
received a daily dose of 6 mg/kg, of whom 304 were patients and 156 were healthy volunteers. In
paediatric studies, 372 patients received Cubicin, of whom 61 received a single dose and 311 received
a therapeutic regimen for cSSTI or SAB (daily doses ranged from 4 mg/kg to 12 mg/kg). Adverse
reactions (i.e. considered by the investigator to be possibly, probably, or definitely related to the
medicinal product) were reported at similar frequencies for Cubicin and comparator regimens.
The most frequently reported adverse reactions (frequency common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10)) are:
Fungal infections, urinary tract infection, candida infection, anaemia, anxiety, insomnia, dizziness,
headache, hypertension, hypotension, gastrointestinal and abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting,
constipation, diarrhoea, flatulence, bloating and distension, liver function tests abnormal (increased
alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) or alkaline phosphatase (ALP)),
rash, pruritus, limb pain, serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK) increased, infusion site reactions,
pyrexia, asthenia.
Less frequently reported, but more serious, adverse reactions include hypersensitivity reactions,
eosinophilic pneumonia (occasionally presenting as organising pneumonia), drug reaction with
eosinophilia and systemic symptoms (DRESS), angioedema and rhabdomyolysis.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The following adverse reactions were reported during therapy and during follow-up with frequencies
corresponding to very common (
< 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from
the available data):
 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to
Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness.
Table 1 
Adverse reactions from clinical studies and post-marketing reports
System organ class 
Frequency 
Adverse reactions
Infections and infestations 
Common: 
Fungal infections, urinary tract infection, candida
infection
Uncommon: 
Fungaemia
Not known*:  Clostridioides difficile-associated diarrhoea**
Blood and lymphatic system 
Common: 
Anaemia
disorders 
Uncommon: 
Thrombocythaemia, eosinophilia, international
normalised ratio (INR) increased, leukocytosis 
Rare: 
Prothrombin time (PT) prolonged
Not known*: 
Thrombocytopaenia
9
System organ class
Immune system disorders
Frequency 
Not known*:  Hypersensitivity**, manifested by isolated
Adverse reactions
spontaneous reports including, but not limited to
angioedema, pulmonary eosinophilia, sensation of
oropharyngeal swelling, anaphylaxis**, infusion
reactions including the following symptoms:
tachycardia, wheezing, pyrexia, rigors, systemic
flushing, vertigo, syncope and metallic taste
Metabolism and nutrition
Uncommon:  Decreased appetite, hyperglycaemia, electrolyte
disorders
imbalance
Psychiatric disorders
Common: 
Anxiety, insomnia
Nervous system disorders
Dizziness, headache
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Not known*:  Peripheral neuropathy**
Paraesthesia, taste disorder, tremor, eye irritation
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Uncommon:  Vertigo
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders
Uncommon: 
Supraventricular tachycardia, extrasystole
Hypertension, hypotension
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Not known*:  Eosinophilic pneumonia1**, cough
Flushes
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Common: 
Gastrointestinal and abdominal pain, nausea,
vomiting, constipation, diarrhoea, flatulence,
bloating and distension
Uncommon:  Dyspepsia, glossitis
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common: 
Liver function tests abnormal2 (increased alanine
aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase
(AST) or alkaline phosphatase (ALP))
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Rare: 
Jaundice
Rash, pruritus
Common: 
Uncommon:  Urticaria
Not known*:  Acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis
(AGEP), drug reaction with eosinophilia and
Musculoskeletal and 
Common: 
connective tissue disorders 
systemic symptoms (DRESS)**, vesiculobullous
rash with or without mucous membrane involvement
(SJS or TEN)**
Limb pain, serum creatine phosphokinase (CPK)2
increased
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon:  Myositis, increased myoglobin, muscular weakness,
muscle pain, arthralgia, serum lactate dehydrogenase
(LDH) increased, muscle cramps
Not known*:  Rhabdomyolysis3 **
Uncommon: 
Renal impairment, including renal failure and renal
insufficiency, serum creatinine increased
Not known*:  Tubulointerstitial nephritis (TIN)**
Reproductive system and 
Uncommon:  Vaginitis
breast disorders
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Infusion site reactions, pyrexia, asthenia
Fatigue, pain
* 
Based on post-marketing reports. Since these reactions are reported voluntarily from a
population of uncertain size, it is not possible to reliably estimate their frequency which is
** 
1 
therefore categorised as not known.
See section 4.4.
While the exact incidence of eosinophilic pneumonia associated with daptomycin is unknown,
to date the reporting rate of spontaneous reports is very low (< 1/10,000).
10
 
2
3
In some cases of myopathy involving raised CPK and muscle symptoms, the patients also
presented with elevated transaminases. These transaminase increases were likely to be related
to the skeletal muscle effects. The majority of transaminase elevations were of Grade 1-3
toxicity and resolved upon discontinuation of treatment.
When clinical information on the patients was available to make a judgement, approximately
50 % of the cases occurred in patients with pre-existing renal impairment, or in those receiving
concomitant medicinal products known to cause rhabdomyolysis.
The safety data for the administration of daptomycin via 2-minute intravenous injection are derived
from two pharmacokinetic studies in healthy adult volunteers. Based on these study results, both
methods of daptomycin administration, the 2-minute intravenous injection and the 30-minute
intravenous infusion, had a similar safety and tolerability profile. There was no relevant difference in
local tolerability or in the nature and frequency of adverse reactions.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system
listed in Appendix V.
4.9  Overdose
In the event of overdose, supportive care is advised. Daptomycin is slowly cleared from the body by
haemodialysis (approximately 15 % of the administered dose is removed over 4 hours) or by
peritoneal dialysis (approximately 11 % of the administered dose is removed over 48 hours).
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antibacterials for systemic use, Other antibacterials, ATC code:
J01XX09
Mechanism of action
Daptomycin is a cyclic lipopeptide natural product that is active against Gram positive bacteria only.
The mechanism of action involves binding (in the presence of calcium ions) to bacterial membranes
of both growing and stationary phase cells causing depolarisation and leading to a rapid inhibition of
protein, DNA, and RNA synthesis. This results in bacterial cell death with negligible cell lysis.
PK/PD relationship
Daptomycin exhibits rapid, concentration dependent bactericidal activity against Gram positive
organisms in vitro and in in vivo animal models. In animal models AUC/MIC and Cmax/MIC correlate
with efficacy and predicted bacterial kill in vivo at single doses equivalent to human adult doses of
4 mg/kg and 6 mg/kg once daily.
Mechanisms of resistance
Strains with decreased susceptibility to daptomycin have been reported especially during the
treatment of patients with difficult-to-treat infections and/or following administration for prolonged
periods. In particular, there have been reports of treatment failures in patients infected with
Staphylococcus aureus, Enterococcus faecalis or Enterococcus faecium, including bacteraemic
patients, that have been associated with the selection of organisms with reduced susceptibility or frank
resistance to daptomycin during therapy.
The mechanism(s) of daptomycin resistance is (are) not fully understood.
11
Breakpoints
Minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) breakpoint established by the European Committee on
Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing (EUCAST) for Staphylococci and Streptococci (except S.
pneumoniae) are Susceptible ≤ 1 mg/l and Resistant > 1 mg/l.
Susceptibility
The prevalence of resistance may vary geographically and over time for selected species and local
information on resistance is desirable, particularly when treating severe infections. As necessary,
expert advice should be sought when the local prevalence of resistance is such that the utility of the
agent in at least some types of infections is questionable.
Commonly Susceptible Species
Staphylococcus aureus *
Staphylococcus haemolyticus
Coagulase negative staphylococci 
Streptococcus agalactiae*
Streptococcus dysgalactiae subsp equisimilis*
Streptococcus pyogenes*
Group G streptococci
Clostridium perfringens
Peptostreptococcus spp
Inherently resistant organisms
Gram negative organisms
* denotes species against which it is considered that activity has been satisfactorily demonstrated in
clinical studies.
Clinical efficacy in adults
In two adult clinical trials in complicated skin and soft tissues infections, 36 % of patients treated with
Cubicin met the criteria for systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS). The most common
type of infection treated was wound infection (38 % of patients), while 21 % had major abscesses.
These limitations of the patients population treated should be taken into account when deciding to use
Cubicin.
In a randomised controlled open-label study in 235 adult patients with Staphylococcus aureus
bacteraemia (i.e. at least one positive blood culture of Staphylococcus aureus prior to receiving the
first dose) 19 of 120 patients treated with Cubicin met the criteria for RIE. Of these 19 patients 11
were infected with methicillin-susceptible and 8 with methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.
The success rates in RIE patients are shown in the table below.
Population
Daptomycin 
Comparator
Differences in
Success
n/N (%) 
n/N (%)
Rates (95 % CI)
ITT (intention to treat) Population 
RIE
8/19 (42.1 %) 
7/16 (43.8 %) 
-1.6 % (-34.6, 31.3)
PP (per protocol) Population
RIE
6/12 (50.0 %) 
4/8 (50.0 %) 
0.0 % (-44.7, 44.7)
Failure of treatment due to persisting or relapsing Staphylococcus aureus infections was observed in
19/120 (15.8 %) patients treated with Cubicin, 9/53 (16.7 %) patients treated with vancomycin and
2/62 (3.2 %) patients treated with an anti-staphylococcal semi-synthetic penicillin. Among these
failures six patients treated with Cubicin and one patient treated with vancomycin were infected with
Staphylococcus aureus that developed increasing MICs of daptomycin on or following therapy (see
“Mechanisms of resistance” above). Most patients who failed due to persisting or relapsing
12
 
 
 
Staphylococcus aureus infection had deep-seated infection and did not receive necessary surgical
intervention.
Clinical efficacy in paediatric patients
The safety and efficacy of daptomycin was evaluated in paediatric patients aged 1 to 17 years (Study
DAP-PEDS-07-03) with cSSTI caused by Gram positive pathogens. Patients were enrolled in a
stepwise approach into well-defined age groups and given age-dependent doses once daily for up to
14 days, as follows:
• 
Age group 1 (n=113): 12 to 17 years treated with daptomycin dosed at 5 mg/kg or standard-of-
care comparator (SOC);
• 
• 
• 
Age group 2 (n=113): 7 to 11 years treated with daptomycin dosed at 7 mg/kg or SOC;
Age group 3 (n=125): 2 to 6 years treated with daptomycin dosed at 9 mg/kg or SOC;
Age group 4 (n=45): 1 to < 2 years treated with daptomycin dosed at 10 mg/kg or SOC.
The primary objective of Study DAP-PEDS-07-03 was to assess the safety of treatment. Secondary
objectives included an assessment of efficacy of age-dependent doses of intravenous daptomycin in
comparison with standard-of-care therapy. The key efficacy endpoint was the sponsor-defined clinical
outcome at test-of-cure (TOC), which was defined by a blinded medical director. A total of
389 subjects were treated in the study, including 256 subjects who received daptomycin and
133 subjects who received standard-of-care. In all populations the clinical success rates were
comparable between the daptomycin and SOC treatment arms, supporting the primary efficacy
analysis in the ITT population.
Summary of sponsor-defined clinical outcome at TOC:
Clinical Success in Paediatric cSSTI
Comparator
n/N (%)
Daptomycin 
n/N (%) 
% difference
Intent-to-treat 
227/257 (88.3 %) 
114/132 (86.4 %)
Modified intent-to-treat 
186/210 (88.6 %) 
92/105 (87.6 %)
Clinically evaluable 
204/207 (98.6 %) 
99/99 (100 %)
Microbiologically evaluable (ME) 
164/167 (98.2 %) 
78/78 (100 %)
2.0
0.9
-1.5
-1.8
The overall therapeutic response rate also was similar for the daptomycin and SOC treatment arms for
infections caused by MRSA, MSSA and Streptococcus pyogenes (see table below; ME population);
response rates were > 94 % for both treatment arms across these common pathogens.
Summary of overall therapeutic response by type of baseline pathogen (ME population):
Pathogen
Methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus
(MSSA)
Overall Successa rate in Paediatric cSSTI
n/N (%)
Daptomycin 
Comparator
68/69 (99 %) 
28/29 (97 %)
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) 
63/66 (96 %) 
34/34 (100 %)
Streptococcus pyogenes 
a Subjects achieving clinical success (Clinical Response of “Cure” or “Improved”) and
microbiological success (pathogen–level response of “Eradicated” or “Presumed Eradicated”) are
classified as overall therapeutic success.
17/18 (94 %) 
5/5 (100 %)
13
The safety and efficacy of daptomycin was evaluated in paediatric patients aged 1 to 17 years (Study
DAP-PEDBAC-11-02) with bacteraemia caused by Staphylococcus aureus. Patients were randomised
in a 2:1 ratio into the following age groups and given age-dependent doses once daily for up to
42 days, as follows:
• 
• 
• 
Age group 1 (n=21): 12 to 17 years treated with daptomycin dosed at 7 mg/kg or SOC
comparator;
Age group 2 (n=28): 7 to 11 years treated with daptomycin dosed at 9 mg/kg or SOC;
Age group 3 (n=32): 1 to 6 years treated with daptomycin dosed at 12 mg/kg or SOC;
The primary objective of Study DAP-PEDBAC-11-02 was to assess the safety of intravenous
daptomycin versus SOC antibiotics. Secondary objectives included: Clinical outcome based on the
blinded Evaluator’s assessment of clinical response (success [cure, improved], failure, or non-
evaluable) at the TOC Visit; and Microbiological response (success, failure, or non-evaluable) based
on evaluation of Baseline infecting pathogen at TOC.
A total of 81 subjects were treated in the study, including 55 subjects who received daptomycin and
26 subjects who received standard-of-care. No patients 1 to <2 years of age were enrolled in the study.
In all populations the clinical success rates were comparable in the daptomycin versus the SOC
treatment arm. 
Summary of Blinded Evaluator defined clinical outcome at TOC:
Clinical Success in Paediatric SAB
Daptomycin 
n/N (%) 
Comparator
n/N (%) 
% difference
Modified intent-to-treat (MITT) 
46/52 (88.5 %)
19/24 (79.2 %)
9.3 %
Microbiologically modified
intent-to-treat (mMITT)
45/51 (88.2 %)
17/22 (77.3 %)
11.0 %
Clinically evaluable (CE)
36/40 (90.0 %)
9/12 (75.0 %)
15.0 %
The microbiological outcome at TOC for the daptomycin and SOC treatment arms for infections
caused by MRSA and MSSA are presented in the table below (mMITT population).
Pathogen
Methicillin-susceptible Staphylococcus aureus
(MSSA)
Microbiological Success rate in
Paediatric SAB
n/N (%)
Daptomycin
Comparator
43/44 (97.7 %)
19/19 (100.0 %)
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)
6/7 (85.7 %)
3/3 (100.0 %)
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties
Daptomycin pharmacokinetics are generally linear and time-independent at doses of 4 to 12 mg/kg
administered as a single daily dose by 30-minute intravenous infusion for up to 14 days in healthy
adult volunteers. Steady-state concentrations are achieved by the third daily dose.
Daptomycin administered as a 2-minute intravenous injection also exhibited dose proportional
pharmacokinetics in the approved therapeutic dose range of 4 to 6 mg/kg. Comparable exposure
(AUC and Cmax) was demonstrated in healthy adult subjects following administration of daptomycin
as a 30-minute intravenous infusion or as a 2-minute intravenous injection.
Animal studies showed that daptomycin is not absorbed to any significant extent after oral
14
administration.
Distribution
The volume of distribution at steady state of daptomycin in healthy adult subjects was approximately
0.1 l/kg and was independent of dose. Tissue distribution studies in rats showed that daptomycin
appears to only minimally penetrate the blood-brain barrier and the placental barrier following single
and multiple doses.
Daptomycin is reversibly bound to human plasma proteins in a concentration independent manner. In
healthy adult volunteers and adult patients treated with daptomycin, protein binding averaged about
90 % including subjects with renal impairment.
Biotransformation
In in vitro studies, daptomycin was not metabolised by human liver microsomes. In vitro studies with
human hepatocytes indicate that daptomycin does not inhibit or induce the activities of the following
human cytochrome P450 isoforms: 1A2, 2A6, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1 and 3A4. It is unlikely that
daptomycin will inhibit or induce the metabolism of medicinal products metabolised by the P450
system.
After infusion of 14C-daptomycin in healthy adults, the plasma radioactivity was similar to the
concentration determined by microbiological assay. Inactive metabolites were detected in urine, as
determined by the difference in total radioactive concentrations and microbiologically active
concentrations. In a separate study, no metabolites were observed in plasma, and minor amounts of
three oxidative metabolites and one unidentified compound were detected in urine. The site of
metabolism has not been identified.
Elimination
Daptomycin is excreted primarily by the kidneys. Concomitant administration of probenecid and
daptomycin has no effect on daptomycin pharmacokinetics in humans suggesting minimal to no active
tubular secretion of daptomycin.
Following intravenous administration, plasma clearance of daptomycin is approximately 7 to
9 ml/hr/kg and its renal clearance is 4 to 7 ml/hr/kg.
In a mass balance study using radiolabelled material, 78 % of the administered dose was recovered
from the urine based on total radioactivity, whilst urinary recovery of unchanged daptomycin was
approximately 50 % of the dose. About 5 % of the administered radiolabel was excreted in the faeces.
Special populations
Elderly
Following administration of a single 4 mg/kg intravenous dose of Cubicin over a 30-minute period,
the mean total clearance of daptomycin was approximately 35 % lower and the mean AUC0-∞ was
approximately 58 % higher in elderly subjects (≥ 75 years of age) compared with those in healthy
young subjects (18 to 30 years of age). There were no differences in Cmax. The differences noted are
most likely due to the normal reduction in renal function observed in the geriatric population.
No dose adjustment is necessary based on age alone. However, renal function should be assessed and
the dose should be reduced if there is evidence of severe renal impairment.
Children and adolescents (1 to 17 years of age)
The pharmacokinetics of daptomycin in paediatric subjects was evaluated in 3 single-dose
pharmacokinetic studies. After a single 4 mg/kg dose of Cubicin, total clearance normalised by weight
and elimination half-life of daptomycin in adolescents (12-17 years of age) with Gram-positive
infection were similar to adults. After a single 4 mg/kg dose of Cubicin, total clearance of daptomycin
in children 7-11 years of age with Gram-positive infection was higher than in adolescents, whereas
15
elimination half-life was shorter. After a single 4, 8, or 10 mg/kg dose of Cubicin, total clearance and
elimination half-life of daptomycin in children 2-6 years of age were similar at different doses; total
clearance was higher and elimination half-life was shorter than in adolescents. After a single 6 mg/kg
dose of Cubicin, the clearance and elimination half-life of daptomycin in children 13-24 months of
age were similar to children 2-6 years of age who received a single 4-10 mg/kg dose. The results of
these studies show that exposures (AUC) in paediatric patients across all doses are generally lower
than those in adults at comparable doses.
Paediatric patients with cSSTI
A Phase 4 study (DAP-PEDS-07-03) was conducted to assess safety, efficacy, and pharmacokinetics
of daptomycin in paediatric patients (1 to 17 years old, inclusive) with cSSTI caused by Gram-
positive pathogens. Daptomycin pharmacokinetics in patients in this study are summarised in Table 2.
Following administration of multiple doses, daptomycin exposure was similar across different age
groups after dose adjustment based on body weight and age. Plasma exposures achieved with these
doses were consistent with those achieved in the adult cSSTI study (following 4 mg/kg once daily in
adults).
Table 2  Mean (Standard Deviation) of Daptomycin Pharmacokinetics in Paediatric cSSTI
Patients (1 to 17 Years of Age) in Study DAP-PEDS-07-03
Age Range 
12-17 years (N=6)  7-11 years (N=2)a 
2-6 years (N=7)
Dose 
5 mg/kg 
Infusion Time 
30 minutes 
7 mg/kg 
30 minutes 
9 mg/kg 
60 minutes 
AUC0-24hr
( g×hr/ml)
Cmax ( g/ml) 
Apparent t1/2 (hr) 
387 (81) 
438 
439 (102) 
62.4 (10.4) 
5.3 (1.6) 
64.9, 74.4 
4.6 
81.9 (21.6) 
3.8 (0.3) 
1 to <2 years
(N=30)b
10 mg/kg
60 minutes
466
79.2
5.04
13.3 (2.9) 
CL/wt (ml/hr/kg) 
Pharmacokinetic parameter values estimated by noncompartmental analysis
aIndividual values reported as only two patients in this age group provided pharmacokinetic samples to enable
pharmacokinetic analysis; AUC, apparent t1/2 and CL/wt could be determined for only one of the two patients
bPharmacokinetic analysis conducted on the pooled pharmacokinetic profile with mean concentrations across subjects at each
time point
21.4 (5.0) 
16.0 
21.5
Paediatric patients with SAB
A Phase 4 study (DAP-PEDBAC-11-02) was conducted to assess safety, efficacy, and
pharmacokinetics of daptomycin in paediatric patients (1 to 17 years old, inclusive) with SAB.
Daptomycin pharmacokinetics inpatients in this study are summarised in Table 3. Following
administration of multiple doses, daptomycin exposure was similar across different age groups after
dose adjustment based on body weight and age. Plasma exposures achieved with these doses were
consistent with those achieved in the adult SAB study (following 6 mg/kg once daily in adults).
Table 3  Mean (Standard Deviation) of Daptomycin Pharmacokinetics in Paediatric SAB
Patients (1 to 17 Years of Age) in Study DAP-PEDBAC-11-02
Age Range 
12-17 years (N=13) 
7-11 years (N=19) 
1 to 6 years (N=19)*
Dose 
Infusion Time 
AUC0-24hr
( g×hr/ml)
Cmax ( g/ml) 
Apparent t1/2 (hr) 
7 mg/kg 
30 minutes 
9 mg/kg 
30 minutes 
656 (334) 
579 (116) 
104 (35.5) 
7.5 (2.3) 
104 (14.5) 
6.0 (0.8) 
12 mg/kg
60 minutes
620 (109)
106 (12.8)
5.1 (0.6)
CL/wt (ml/hr/kg) 
Pharmacokinetic parameter values estimated using a model-based approach with sparsely collected pharmacokinetic samples
15.9 (2.8) 
12.4 (3.9) 
19.9 (3.4)
from individual patients in the study.
*Mean (Standard Deviation) calculated for patients 2 to 6 years of age, since no patients 1 to <2 years of age were enrolled in
the study. Simulation using a population pharmacokinetic model demonstrated that the AUCss (area under the concentration-
time curve at steady state) of daptomycin in paediatric patients 1 to <2 years of age receiving 12 mg/kg once daily would be
16
comparable to that in adult patients receiving 6 mg/kg once daily.
Obesity
Relative to non-obese subjects daptomycin systemic exposure measured by AUC was about 28 %
higher in moderately obese subjects (Body Mass Index of 25-40 kg/m2) and 42 % higher in extremely
obese subjects (Body Mass Index of > 40 kg/m2). However, no dose adjustment is considered to be
necessary based on obesity alone.
Gender
No clinically significant gender-related differences in daptomycin pharmacokinetics have been
observed.
Race
No clinically significant differences in daptomycin pharmacokinetics have been observed in Black or
Japanese subjects relative to Caucasian subjects.
Renal impairment
Following administration of a single 4 mg/kg or 6 mg/kg intravenous dose of daptomycin over a
30-minute period to adult subjects with various degrees of renal impairment, total daptomycin
clearance (CL) decreased and systemic exposure (AUC) increased as renal function (creatinine
clearance) decreased.
Based on pharmacokinetic data and modelling, the daptomycin AUC during the first day after
administration of a 6 mg/kg dose to adult patients on HD or CAPD was 2-fold higher than that
observed in adult patients with normal renal function who received the same dose. On the second day
after administration of a 6 mg/kg dose to HD and CAPD adult patients the daptomycin AUC was
approximately 1.3-fold higher than that observed after a second 6 mg/kg dose in adult patients with
normal renal function. On this basis, it is recommended that adult patients on HD or CAPD receive
daptomycin once every 48 hours at the dose recommended for the type of infection being treated (see
section 4.2).
The dosage regimen for Cubicin in paediatric patients with renal impairment has not been established.
Hepatic impairment
The pharmacokinetics of daptomycin is not altered in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment
(Child-Pugh B classification of hepatic impairment) compared with healthy volunteers matched for
gender, age and weight following a single 4 mg/kg dose. No dosage adjustment is necessary when
administering daptomycin in patients with moderate hepatic impairment. The pharmacokinetics of
daptomycin in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C classification) have not been
evaluated.
5.3  Preclinical safety data
Daptomycin administration was associated with minimal to mild degenerative/regenerative changes in
skeletal muscle in the rat and dog. Microscopic changes in skeletal muscle were minimal
(approximately 0.05 % of myofibres affected) and at the higher doses were accompanied by
elevations in CPK. No fibrosis or rhabdomyolysis was observed. Depending on the study duration, all
muscle effects, including microscopic changes, were fully reversible within 1-3 months following
cessation of dosing. No functional or pathological changes in smooth or cardiac muscle were
observed.
The lowest observable effect level (LOEL) for myopathy in rats and dogs occurred at exposure levels
of 0.8 to 2.3-fold the human therapeutic levels at 6 mg/kg (30-minute intravenous infusion) for
patients with normal renal function. As the pharmacokinetics (see section 5.2) is comparable, the
safety margins for both methods of administration are very similar.
17
A study in dogs demonstrated that skeletal myopathy was reduced upon once daily administration as
compared to fractionated dosing at same total daily dose, suggesting that myopathic effects in animals
were primarily related to time between doses.
Effects on peripheral nerves were observed at higher doses than those associated with skeletal muscle
effects in adult rats and dogs, and were primarily related to plasma C max. Peripheral nerve changes
were characterised by minimal to slight axonal degeneration and were frequently accompanied by
functional changes. Reversal of both the microscopic and functional effects was complete within
6 months post-dose. Safety margins for peripheral nerve effects in rats and dogs are 8- and 6-fold,
respectively, based on comparison of Cmax values at the No Observed Effect Level (NOEL) with the
Cmax achieved on dosing with 30-minute intravenous infusion of 6 mg/kg once daily in patients with
normal renal function.
The findings of in vitro and some in vivo studies designed to investigate the mechanism of
daptomycin myotoxicity indicate that the plasma membrane of differentiated spontaneously
contracting muscle cells is the target of toxicity. The specific cell surface component directly targeted
has not been identified. Mitochondrial loss/damage was also observed; however the role and
significance of this finding in the overall pathology are unknown. This finding was not associated
with an effect on muscle contraction.
In contrast to adult dogs, juvenile dogs appeared to be more sensitive to peripheral nerve lesions as
compared to skeletal myopathy. Juvenile dogs developed peripheral and spinal nerve lesions at doses
lower than those associated with skeletal muscle toxicity.
In neonatal dogs, daptomycin caused marked clinical signs of twitching, muscle rigidity in the limbs,
and impaired use of limbs, which resulted in decreases in body weight and overall body condition at
doses ≥ 50 mg/kg/day and necessitated early discontinuation of treatment in these dose groups. At
lower dose levels (25 mg/kg/day), mild and reversible clinical signs of twitching and one incidence of
muscle rigidity were observed without any effects on body weight. There was no histopathological
correlation in the peripheral and central nervous system tissue, or in the skeletal muscle, at any dose
level, and the mechanism and clinical relevance for the adverse clinical signs are therefore unknown.
Reproductive toxicity testing showed no evidence of effects on fertility, embryofoetal, or postnatal
development. However, daptomycin can cross the placenta in pregnant rats (see section 5.2).
Excretion of daptomycin into milk of lactating animals has not been studied.
Long-term carcinogenicity studies in rodents were not conducted. Daptomycin was not mutagenic or
clastogenic in a battery of in vivo and in vitro genotoxicity tests.
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1  List of excipients
Sodium hydroxide
6.2 
Incompatibilities
Cubicin is not physically or chemically compatible with glucose-containing solutions. This medicinal
product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in section 6.6.
6.3  Shelf life
3 years
After reconstitution: Chemical and physical in-use stability of the reconstituted solution in the vial has
18
been demonstrated for 12 hours at 25 °C and up to 48 hours at 2 °C – 8 °C. Chemical and physical
stability of the diluted solution in infusion bags is established as 12 hours at 25 °C or 24 hours at 2 °C
– 8 °C.
For the 30-minute intravenous infusion, the combined storage time (reconstituted solution in vial and
diluted solution in infusion bag; see section 6.6) at 25 °C must not exceed 12 hours (or 24 at 2 °C –
8 °C).
For the 2-minute intravenous injection, the storage time of the reconstituted solution in the vial (see
section 6.6) at 25 °C must not exceed 12 hours (or 48 at 2 °C – 8 °C).
However, from a microbiological point of view the product should be used immediately. No
preservative or bacteriostatic agent is present in this product. If not used immediately, in-use storage
times are the responsibility of the user and would not normally be longer than 24 hours at 2 °C – 8 °C,
unless reconstitution/dilution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions.
6.4  Special precautions for storage
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C).
For storage conditions after reconstitution and after reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal
product see section 6.3.
6.5  Nature and contents of container
Cubicin 350 mg powder for solution for injection or infusion 
Single use 10 ml type I clear glass vials with type I rubber stoppers and aluminium closures with
yellow plastic flip off caps.
Cubicin 500 mg powder for solution for injection or infusion 
Single use 10 ml type I clear glass vials with type I rubber stoppers and aluminium closures with blue
plastic flip off caps.
Available in packs containing 1 vial or 5 vials. Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling
In adults, daptomycin may be administered intravenously as an infusion over 30 minutes or as an
injection over 2 minutes. Daptomycin should not be administered as a 2-minute injection to paediatric
patients. Paediatric patients 7 to 17 years old should receive daptomycin infused over 30 minutes. In
paediatric patients under 7 years old receiving a 9-12 mg/kg dose, daptomycin should be administered
over 60 minutes (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). Preparation of the solution for infusion requires an
additional dilution step as detailed below. 
Cubicin given as 30 or 60-minute intravenous infusion
A 50 mg/ml concentration of Cubicin 350 mg powder for infusion is obtained by reconstituting the
lyophilised product with 7 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection.
A 50 mg/ml concentration of Cubicin 500 mg powder for infusion is obtained by reconstituting the
lyophilised product with 10 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection.
The lyophilised product takes approximately 15 minutes to dissolve. The fully reconstituted product
will appear clear and may have a few small bubbles or foam around the edge of the vial.
19
Cubicin 350 mg powder for solution for injection or infusion 
To prepare Cubicin for intravenous infusion, please adhere to the following instructions:
Aseptic technique should be used throughout to reconstitute or dilute lyophilised Cubicin.
For Reconstitution:
1. 
The polypropylene flip off cap should be removed to expose the central portions of the rubber
stopper. Wipe the top of the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab or other antiseptic solution
and allow to dry. After cleaning, do not touch the rubber stopper or allow it to touch any other
surface. Draw 7 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection into a syringe
using a sterile transfer needle that is 21 gauge or smaller in diameter, or a needleless device,
then slowly inject through the centre of the rubber stopper into the vial pointing the needle
towards the wall of the vial.
2. 
The vial should be gently rotated to ensure complete wetting of the product and then allowed to
stand for 10 minutes.
3. 
Finally the vial should be gently rotated/swirled for a few minutes as needed to obtain a clear
reconstituted solution. Vigorous shaking/agitation should be avoided to prevent foaming of the
product.
4. 
The reconstituted solution should be checked carefully to ensure that the product is in solution
and visually inspected for the absence of particulates prior to use. Reconstituted solutions of
Cubicin range in colour from pale yellow to light brown.
5. 
The reconstituted solution should then be diluted with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %)
(typical volume 50 ml).
For Dilution:
1. 
Slowly remove the appropriate reconstituted liquid (50 mg daptomycin/ml) from the vial using
a new sterile needle that is 21 gauge or smaller in diameter by inverting the vial in order to
allow the solution to drain towards the stopper. Using a syringe, insert the needle into the
inverted vial. Keeping the vial inverted, position the needle tip at the very bottom of the
solution in the vial when drawing the solution into the syringe. Before removing the needle
from the vial, pull the plunger all the way back to the end of the syringe barrel in order to
remove the required solution from the inverted vial.
2. 
3. 
4. 
Expel air, large bubbles, and any excess solution in order to obtain the required dose.
Transfer the required reconstituted dose into 50 ml sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %).
The reconstituted and diluted solution should then be infused intravenously over 30 or
60 minutes as directed in section 4.2.
Cubicin 500 mg powder for solution for injection or infusion
To prepare Cubicin for intravenous infusion, please adhere to the following instructions:
Aseptic technique should be used throughout to reconstitute or dilute lyophilised Cubicin.
For Reconstitution:
1. 
The polypropylene flip off cap should be removed to expose the central portions of the rubber
stopper. Wipe the top of the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab or other antiseptic solution
and allow to dry. After cleaning, do not touch the rubber stopper or allow it to touch any other
surface. Draw 10 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection into a syringe
using a sterile transfer needle that is 21 gauge or smaller in diameter, or a needleless device,
then slowly inject through the centre of the rubber stopper into the vial pointing the needle
towards the wall of the vial.
2. 
The vial should be gently rotated to ensure complete wetting of the product and then allowed to
stand for 10 minutes.
3. 
Finally the vial should be gently rotated/swirled for a few minutes as needed to obtain a clear
reconstituted solution. Vigorous shaking/agitation should be avoided to prevent foaming of the
product.
4. 
The reconstituted solution should be checked carefully to ensure that the product is in solution
and visually inspected for the absence of particulates prior to use. Reconstituted solutions of
Cubicin range in colour from pale yellow to light brown.
5. 
The reconstituted solution should then be diluted with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %)
(typical volume 50 ml).
20
For Dilution:
1. 
Slowly remove the appropriate reconstituted liquid (50 mg daptomycin/ml) from the vial using
a new sterile needle that is 21 gauge or smaller in diameter by inverting the vial in order to
allow the solution to drain towards the stopper. Using a syringe, insert the needle into the
inverted vial. Keeping the vial inverted, position the needle tip at the very bottom of the
solution in the vial when drawing the solution into the syringe. Before removing the needle
from the vial, pull the plunger all the way back to the end of the syringe barrel in order to
remove the required solution from the inverted vial.
2. 
3. 
4. 
Expel air, large bubbles, and any excess solution in order to obtain the required dose.
Transfer the required reconstituted dose into 50 ml sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %).
The reconstituted and diluted solution should then be infused intravenously over 30 or
60 minutes as directed in section 4.2.
The following have been shown to be compatible when added to Cubicin containing infusion
solutions: aztreonam, ceftazidime, ceftriaxone, gentamicin, fluconazole, levofloxacin, dopamine,
heparin and lidocaine.
Cubicin given as 2-minute intravenous injection (adult patients only)
Water should not be used for reconstitution of Cubicin for intravenous injection. Cubicin should only
be reconstituted with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %).
A 50 mg/ml concentration of Cubicin 350 mg powder for injection is obtained by reconstituting the
lyophilised product with 7 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection.
A 50 mg/ml concentration of Cubicin 500 mg powder for injection is obtained by reconstituting the
lyophilised product with 10 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection.
The lyophilised product takes approximately 15 minutes to dissolve. The fully reconstituted product
will appear clear and may have a few small bubbles or foam around the edge of the vial.
Cubicin 350 mg powder for solution for injection or infusion
To prepare Cubicin for intravenous injection, please adhere to the following instructions:
Aseptic technique should be used throughout to reconstitute lyophilised Cubicin.
1. 
The polypropylene flip off cap should be removed to expose the central portions of the rubber
stopper. Wipe the top of the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab or other antiseptic solution
and allow to dry. After cleaning, do not touch the rubber stopper or allow it to touch any other
surface. Draw 7 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection into a syringe
using a sterile transfer needle that is 21 gauge or smaller in diameter, or a needleless device,
then slowly inject through the centre of the rubber stopper into the vial pointing the needle
towards the wall of the vial.
2. 
The vial should be gently rotated to ensure complete wetting of the product and then allowed to
stand for 10 minutes.
3. 
Finally the vial should be gently rotated/swirled for a few minutes as needed to obtain a clear
reconstituted solution. Vigorous shaking/agitation should be avoided to prevent foaming of the
product.
4. 
The reconstituted solution should be checked carefully to ensure that the product is in solution
and visually inspected for the absence of particulates prior to use. Reconstituted solutions of
Cubicin range in colour from pale yellow to light brown.
5. 
Slowly remove the reconstituted liquid (50 mg daptomycin/ml) from the vial using a sterile
needle that is 21 gauge or smaller in diameter.
6. 
Invert the vial in order to allow the solution to drain towards the stopper. Using a new syringe,
insert the needle into the inverted vial. Keeping the vial inverted, position the needle tip at the
very bottom of the solution in the vial when drawing the solution into the syringe. Before
removing the needle from the vial, pull the plunger all the way back to the end of the syringe
barrel in order to remove all of the solution from the inverted vial.
7. 
Replace needle with a new needle for the intravenous injection.
21
8. 
9. 
Expel air, large bubbles, and any excess solution in order to obtain the required dose.
The reconstituted solution should then be injected intravenously slowly over 2 minutes as
directed in section 4.2.
Cubicin 500 mg powder for solution for injection or infusion
To prepare Cubicin for intravenous injection, please adhere to the following instructions:
Aseptic technique should be used throughout to reconstitute lyophilised Cubicin.
1. 
The polypropylene flip off cap should be removed to expose the central portions of the rubber
stopper. Wipe the top of the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab or other antiseptic solution
and allow to dry. After cleaning, do not touch the rubber stopper or allow it to touch any other
surface. Draw 10 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection into a syringe
using a sterile transfer needle that is 21 gauge or smaller in diameter, or a needleless device,
then slowly inject through the centre of the rubber stopper into the vial pointing the needle
towards the wall of the vial.
2. 
The vial should be gently rotated to ensure complete wetting of the product and then allowed to
stand for 10 minutes.
3. 
Finally the vial should be gently rotated/swirled for a few minutes as needed to obtain a clear
reconstituted solution. Vigorous shaking/agitation should be avoided to prevent foaming of the
product.
4. 
The reconstituted solution should be checked carefully to ensure that the product is in solution
and visually inspected for the absence of particulates prior to use. Reconstituted solutions of
Cubicin range in colour from pale yellow to light brown.
5. 
Slowly remove the reconstituted liquid (50 mg daptomycin/ml) from the vial using a sterile
needle that is 21 gauge or smaller in diameter.
6. 
Invert the vial in order to allow the solution to drain towards the stopper. Using a new syringe,
insert the needle into the inverted vial. Keeping the vial inverted, position the needle tip at the
very bottom of the solution in the vial when drawing the solution into the syringe. Before
removing the needle from the vial, pull the plunger all the way back to the end of the syringe
barrel in order to remove all of the solution from the inverted vial.
Replace needle with a new needle for the intravenous injection.
Expel air, large bubbles, and any excess solution in order to obtain the required dose.
The reconstituted solution should then be injected intravenously slowly over 2 minutes as
7. 
8. 
9. 
directed in section 4.2.
Cubicin vials are for single-use only.
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately after reconstitution
(see section 6.3).
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local
requirements.
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
Cubicin 350 mg powder for solution for injection or infusion
EU/1/05/328/001
EU/1/05/328/003
22
Cubicin 500 mg powder for solution for injection or infusion 
EU/1/05/328/002
EU/1/05/328/004
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 19 January 2006
Date of latest renewal: 29 November 2010
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu
23
ANNEX II
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY
AND USE
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL
PRODUCT
24
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release
FAREVA Mirabel
Route de Marsat
Riom
63963, Clermont-Ferrand Cedex 9
France
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING
AUTHORISATION
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2. of the marketing
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:
At the request of the European Medicines Agency
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
25

 

 

 

ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
26
A. LABELLING
27
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON FOR 1 VIAL
CARTON FOR 5 VIALS
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Cubicin 350 mg powder for solution for injection or infusion
daptomycin
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each vial contains 350 mg daptomycin.
One ml provides 50 mg of daptomycin after reconstitution with 7 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml
(0.9 %) solution.
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipient: Sodium hydroxide
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
1 vial
5 vials
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Intravenous use.
Read the package leaflet before use for directions on reconstitution.
When administration is by injection reconstitute with 0.9 % sodium chloride only.
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
Read the leaflet for the shelf life of the reconstituted product
28
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C).
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
Dispose of in accordance with local requirements
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/05/328/001
EU/1/05/328/003
1 vial
5 vials
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
<2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.>
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC 
SN 
NN
29
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
VIAL
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Cubicin 350 mg powder for solution for injection or infusion
daptomycin
IV
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
When used by injection, reconstitute with 0.9 % sodium chloride only.
3. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4. 
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
350 mg
6.  OTHER
30
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON FOR 1 VIAL
CARTON FOR 5 VIALS
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Cubicin 500 mg powder for solution for injection or infusion
daptomycin
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each vial contains 500 mg daptomycin.
One ml provides 50 mg of daptomycin after reconstitution with 10 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml
(0.9 %) solution.
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipient: Sodium hydroxide
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
1 vial
5 vials
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Intravenous use.
Read the package leaflet before use for directions on reconstitution.
When administration is by injection reconstitute with 0.9 % sodium chloride only.
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
Read the leaflet for the shelf life of the reconstituted product
31
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
Dispose of in accordance with local requirements
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/05/328/002
EU/1/05/328/004
1 vial
5 vials
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
<2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.>
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
32
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
VIAL
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Cubicin 500 mg powder for solution for injection or infusion
daptomycin
IV
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
When used by injection, reconstitute with 0.9 % sodium chloride only.
3. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4. 
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
500 mg
6.  OTHER
33
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
34
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Cubicin 350 mg powder for solution for injection or infusion
daptomycin
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains
important information for you.
- 
- 
- 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse.
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them,
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
- 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet
1.  What Cubicin is and what it is used for
2.  What you need to know before you are given Cubicin
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Cubicin is given
Possible side effects
How to store Cubicin
Contents of the pack and other information
1.  What Cubicin is and what it is used for
The active substance in Cubicin powder for solution for injection or infusion is daptomycin.
Daptomycin is an antibacterial that can stop the growth of certain bacteria. Cubicin is used in adults
and in children and adolescents (age from 1 to 17 years) to treat infections of the skin and the tissues
below the skin. It is also used to treat infections in the blood when associated with skin infection. 
Cubicin is also used in adults to treat infections in the tissues that line the inside of the heart
(including heart valves) which are caused by a type of bacteria called Staphylococcus aureus. It is also
used to treat infections in the blood caused by the same type of bacteria when associated with heart
infection.
Depending on the type of infection(s) that you have, your doctor may also prescribe other
antibacterials while you are receiving treatment with Cubicin.
2.  What you need to know before you are given Cubicin
You should not be given Cubicin
If you are allergic to daptomycin or to sodium hydroxide or to any of the other ingredients of this
medicine (listed in section 6).
If this applies to you, tell your doctor or nurse. If you think you may be allergic, ask your doctor or
nurse for advice.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or nurse before you are given Cubicin:
- 
If you have, or have previously had kidney problems. Your doctor may need to change the dose
of Cubicin (see section 3 of this leaflet).
- 
- 
Occasionally, patients receiving Cubicin may develop tender or aching muscles or muscle
weakness (see section 4 of this leaflet for more information). If this happens tell your doctor.
Your doctor will make sure you have a blood test and will advise whether or not to continue
with Cubicin. The symptoms generally go away within a few days of stopping Cubicin.
If you have ever developed a severe skin rash or skin peeling, blistering and/or mouth sores, or
35
serious kidney problems after taking daptomycin.
- 
If you are very overweight. There is a possibility that your blood levels of Cubicin could be
higher than those found in persons of average weight and you may need careful monitoring in
case of side effects.
If any of these applies to you, tell your doctor or nurse before you are given Cubicin.
Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you develop any of the following symptoms:
- 
Serious, acute allergic reactions have been observed in patients treated with nearly all
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
antibacterial agents, including Cubicin. The symptoms can include wheezing, difficulty
breathing, swelling of the face, neck and throat, rashes and hives, or fever. 
Serious skin disorders have been reported with the use of Cubicin. The symptoms that occur
with these skin disorders can include:
- 
- 
a new or worsening fever,
red raised or fluid-filled skin spots which may start in your armpits or on your chest or
groin areas and which can spread over a large area of your body,
blisters or sores in your mouth or on your genitals.
- 
A serious kidney problem has been reported with the use of Cubicin. The symptoms can include
fever and rash.
Any unusual tingling or numbness of the hands or feet, loss of feeling or difficulties with
movements. If this happens, tell your doctor who will decide whether you should continue the
treatment.
Diarrhoea, especially if you notice blood or mucus, or if diarrhoea becomes severe or
persistent.
New or worsening fever, cough or difficulty breathing. These may be signs of a rare but serious
lung disorder called eosinophilic pneumonia. Your doctor will check the condition of your
lungs and decide whether or not you should continue Cubicin treatment.
Cubicin may interfere with laboratory tests that measure how well your blood is clotting. The results
can suggest poor blood clotting when, in fact, there is no problem. Therefore, it is important that your
doctor takes into account that you are receiving Cubicin. Please inform your doctor that you are on
treatment with Cubicin.
Your doctor will perform blood tests to monitor the health of your muscles both before you start
treatment and frequently during treatment with Cubicin.
Children and adolescents
Cubicin should not be administered to children below one year of age as studies in animals have
indicated that this age group may experience severe side effects.
Use in elderly
People over the age of 65 can be given the same dose as other adults, provided their kidneys are
working well.
Other medicines and Cubicin
Tell your doctor or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines.
It is particularly important that you mention the following:
-  Medicines called statins or fibrates (to lower cholesterol) or ciclosporin (a medicinal product
used in transplantation to prevent organ rejection or for other conditions, e.g. rheumatoid
arthritis or atopic dermatitis). It is possible that the risk of side effects affecting the muscles
may be higher when any of these medicines (and some others that can affect muscles) is taken
during treatment with Cubicin. Your doctor may decide not to give you Cubicin or to stop the
other medicine for a while.
-  Pain killing medicines called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or COX-2
inhibitors (e.g. celecoxib). These could interfere with the effects of Cubicin in the kidney.
-  Oral anti-coagulants (e.g. warfarin), which are medicines that prevent blood from clotting. It
36
may be necessary for your doctor to monitor your blood clotting times.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Cubicin is not usually given to pregnant women. If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may
be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before you are
given this medicine.
Do not breast-feed if you are receiving Cubicin, because it may pass into your breast milk and could
affect the baby.
Driving and using machines
Cubicin has no known effects on the ability to drive or use machines.
Cubicin contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially
‘sodium-free’.
3.  How Cubicin is given
Cubicin will usually be given to you by a doctor or a nurse.
Adults (18 years of age and above)
The dose will depend on how much you weigh and the type of infection being treated. The usual dose
for adults is 4 mg for every kilogram (kg) of body weight once daily for skin infections or 6 mg for
every kg of body weight once daily for a heart infection or a blood infection associated with skin or
heart infection. In adult patients, this dose is given directly into your blood stream (into a vein), either
as an infusion lasting about 30 minutes or as an injection lasting about 2 minutes. The same dose is
recommended in people aged over 65 years provided their kidneys are working well.
If your kidneys do not work well, you may receive Cubicin less often, e.g. once every other day. If
you are receiving dialysis, and your next dose of Cubicin is due on a dialysis day, you will be usually
given Cubicin after the dialysis session.
Children and adolescents (1 to 17 years of age)
The dose for children and adolescents (1 to 17 years of age) will depend on the age of patient and the
type of infection being treated. This dose is given directly into the blood stream (into a vein), as an
infusion lasting about 30-60 minutes.
A course of treatment usually lasts for 1 to 2 weeks for skin infections. For blood or heart infections
and skin infections your doctor will decide how long you should be treated.
Detailed instructions for use and handling are given at the end of the leaflet.
37
4. 
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
The most serious side effects are described below:
Serious side effects with frequency not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available
data)
- 
A hypersensitivity reaction (serious allergic reaction including anaphylaxis and angioedema)
has been reported, in some cases during administration of Cubicin. This serious allergic
reaction needs immediate medical attention. Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you
Wheezing,
Rash or hives,
Rapid or weak pulse,
Chest pain or tightness,
Swelling around throat,
experience any of the following symptoms:
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Tell your doctor straight away if you experience unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or
Shivering or trembling,
Metallic taste.
Hot flushes,
Dizziness,
Fainting,
Fever,
- 
weakness. Muscle problems can be serious, including muscle breakdown (rhabdomyolysis),
which can result in kidney damage.
Other serious side effects that have been reported with the use of Cubicin are:
- 
A rare but potentially serious lung disorder called eosinophilic pneumonia, mostly after more
than 2 weeks of treatment. The symptoms can include difficulty breathing, new or worsening
cough, or new or worsening fever.
- 
Serious skin disorders. The symptoms can include:
- 
- 
a new or worsening fever,
red raised or fluid-filled skin spots which may start in your armpits or on your chest or
groin areas and which can spread over a large area of your body,
blisters or sores in your mouth or on your genitals.
- 
A serious kidney problem. The symptoms can include fever and rash.
- 
If you experience these symptoms, tell your doctor or nurse straight away. Your doctor will perform
additional tests to make a diagnosis.
The most frequently reported side effects are described below:
Headache,
Urinary tract infection,
Fever, weakness (asthenia),
Fungal infections such as thrush,
Dizziness, anxiety, difficulty in sleeping,
Decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia),
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Pain, itchiness or redness at the site of infusion,
Abdominal swelling or bloating,
Constipation, abdominal pain,
High or low blood pressure,
Pain in arms or legs,
Skin rash or itching,
Flatulence,
Diarrhoea, feeling sick (nausea) or being sick (vomiting),
38
- 
Blood testing showing higher levels of liver enzymes or creatine phosphokinase (CPK).
Other side effects which may occur following Cubicin treatment are described below:
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
- 
Blood disorders (e.g. increased number of small blood particles called platelets, which may
increase the tendency for blood clotting, or higher levels of certain types of white blood cells),
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Decreased appetite,
Tingling or numbness of the hands or feet, taste disturbance,
Trembling,
Changes in heart rhythm, flushes,
Indigestion (dyspepsia), inflammation of the tongue,
Itchy rash of skin,
Muscle pain, cramping, or weakness, inflammation of the muscles (myositis), joint pain,
Kidney problems,
Inflammation and irritation of the vagina,
General pain or weakness, tiredness (fatigue),
Blood test showing increased levels of blood sugar, serum creatinine, myoglobin, or lactate
dehydrogenase (LDH), prolonged blood clotting time or imbalance of salts,
Itchy eyes.
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
- 
- 
Yellowing of the skin and eyes,
Prothrombin time prolonged.
Frequency not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data)
Antibacterial-associated colitis, including pseudomembranous colitis (severe or persistent diarrhoea
containing blood and/or mucus, associated with abdominal pain or fever), easy bruising, bleeding
gums, or nosebleeds.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the
safety of this medicine.
5.  How to store Cubicin
- 
- 
- 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and label after EXP.
The expiry date refers to the last day of the month.
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C).
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information
What Cubicin contains
- 
The active substance is daptomycin. One vial of powder contains 350 mg daptomycin.
- 
The other ingredient is sodium hydroxide.
What Cubicin looks like and contents of the pack
Cubicin powder for solution for injection or infusion is supplied as a pale yellow to light brown cake
or powder in a glass vial. It is mixed with a solvent to form a liquid before it is administered.
39
Cubicin is available in packs containing 1 vial or 5 vials.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V., Waarderweg 39, 2031 BN Haarlem, The Netherlands 
Manufacturer
FAREVA Mirabel, Route de Marsat, Riom, 63963, Clermont-Ferrand Cedex 9, France
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing
Authorisation Holder.
Belgique/België/Belgien
MSD Belgium
Tél/Tel: +32(0)27766211
dpoc_belux@merck.com
България 
Мерк Шарп и Доум България ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 819 3737
info-msdbg@merck.com
Česká republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme s.r.o.
Tel.: +420 233 010 111
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
Lietuva
UAB Merck Sharp & Dohme
Tel.: +370 5 278 02 47
msd_lietuva@merck.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
MSD Belgium
Tél/Tel: +32(0)27766211
dpoc_belux@merck.com
Magyarország
MSD Pharma Hungary Kft.
Tel.: +361 888 53 00
hungary_msd@merck.com
Danmark
MSD Danmark ApS
Tlf: +45 4482 4000
dkmail@merck.com
Malta
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Tel: 8007 4433 (+356 99917558)
malta_info@merck.com
Deutschland
MSD Sharp & Dohme GmbH
Nederland
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Tel: 0800 673 673 673 (+49 (0) 89 4561 0)
Tel: 0800 9999000 (+31 23 5153153)
e-mail@msd.de
medicalinfo.nl@merck.com
Eesti
Merck Sharp & Dohme OÜ
Tel.: +372 6144 200
msdeesti@merck.com
Ελλάδα
MSD Α.Φ.Β.Ε.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 210 98 97 300
dpoc_greece@merck.com
Norge
MSD (Norge) AS
Tlf: +47 32 20 73 00
msdnorge@ msd.no
Österreich
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ges.m.b.H.
Tel: +43 (0) 1 26 044
dpoc_austria@merck.com
España
Merck Sharp & Dohme de España, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 321 06 00
msd_info@merck.com
Polska
MSD Polska Sp.z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 549 51 00
msdpolska@merck.com
France
MSD France
Tél: + 33 (0) 1 80 46 40 40
Portugal
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Lda
Tel: +351 21 4465700
inform_pt@merck.com
40
Hrvatska
Merck Sharp & Dohme d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385 1 6611 333
croatia_info@merck.com
România
Merck Sharp & Dohme Romania S.R.L.
Tel: +40 21 529 29 00
msdromania@merck.com
Ireland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health)
Slovenija
Merck Sharp & Dohme, inovativna zdravila d.o.o.
Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 299 8700
medinfo_ireland@merck.com
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
Ιtalia
MSD Italia S.r.l.
Tel: + 386 1 5204 201
msd_slovenia@merck.com
Slovenská republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme, s. r. o.
Tel.: +421 2 58282010
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
Suomi/Finland
MSD Finland Oy
Tel: 800 23 99 89 (+39 06 361911)
Puh/Tel: +358 (0) 9 804650
medicalinformation.it@msd.com
info@msd.fi
Κύπρος
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Τηλ: 800 00 673 (+357 22866700)
cyprus_info@merck.com 
Sverige
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Sweden) AB
Tel: +46 77 5700488
medicinskinfo@merck.com
Latvija 
SIA Merck Sharp & Dohme Latvija 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health)
Tel: +371 67364224 
msd_lv@merck.com. 
Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfoNI@msd.com
This leaflet was last revised in <{MM/YYYY}><{month YYYY}>.
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu
41
 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only
Important: Please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics before prescribing.
Instructions for use and handling
350 mg presentation:
In adults, daptomycin may be administered intravenously as an infusion over 30 minutes or as an
injection over 2 minutes. Unlike in adults, daptomycin should not be administered by injection over a
2-minute period in paediatric patients. Paediatric patients 7 to 17 years old should receive daptomycin
infused over 30 minutes. In paediatric patients under 7 years old receiving a 9-12 mg/kg dose,
daptomycin should be administered over 60 minutes. Preparation of the solution for infusion requires
an additional dilution step as detailed below.
Cubicin given as an intravenous infusion over 30 or 60 minutes
A 50 mg/ml concentration of Cubicin for infusion can be achieved by reconstituting the lyophilised
product with 7 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection.
The lyophilised product takes approximately 15 minutes to dissolve. The fully reconstituted product
will appear clear and may have a few small bubbles or foam around the edge of the vial.
To prepare Cubicin for intravenous infusion, please adhere to the following instructions:
Aseptic technique should be used throughout to reconstitute or dilute lyophilised Cubicin.
For Reconstitution:
1. 
The polypropylene flip off cap should be removed to expose the central portions of the rubber
stopper. Wipe the top of the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab or other antiseptic solution
and allow to dry. After cleaning, do not touch the rubber stopper or allow it to touch any other
surface. Draw 7 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection into a syringe
using a sterile transfer needle that is 21 gauge or smaller in diameter, or a needleless device,
then slowly inject through the centre of the rubber stopper into the vial pointing the needle
towards the wall of the vial.
2. 
The vial should be gently rotated to ensure complete wetting of the product and then allowed to
stand for 10 minutes.
3. 
Finally the vial should be gently rotated/swirled for a few minutes as needed to obtain a clear
reconstituted solution. Vigorous shaking/agitation should be avoided to prevent foaming of the
product.
4. 
The reconstituted solution should be checked carefully to ensure that the product is in solution
and visually inspected for the absence of particulates prior to use. Reconstituted solutions of
Cubicin range in colour from pale yellow to light brown.
5. 
The reconstituted solution should then be diluted with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %)
(typical volume 50 ml).
For Dilution:
1. 
Slowly remove the appropriate reconstituted liquid (50 mg daptomycin/ml) from the vial using
a new sterile needle that is 21 gauge or smaller in diameter by inverting the vial in order to
allow the solution to drain towards the stopper. Using a syringe, insert the needle into the
inverted vial. Keeping the vial inverted, position the needle tip at the very bottom of the
solution in the vial when drawing the solution into the syringe. Before removing the needle
from the vial, pull the plunger all the way back to the end of the syringe barrel in order to
remove the required solution from the inverted vial.
2. 
3. 
4. 
Expel air, large bubbles, and any excess solution in order to obtain the required dose.
Transfer the required reconstituted dose into 50 ml sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %).
The reconstituted and diluted solution should then be infused intravenously over 30 or
60 minutes.
42
Cubicin is not physically or chemically compatible with glucose-containing solutions. The following
have been shown to be compatible when added to Cubicin containing infusion solutions: aztreonam,
ceftazidime, ceftriaxone, gentamicin, fluconazole, levofloxacin, dopamine, heparin and lidocaine.
The combined storage time (reconstituted solution in vial and diluted solution in infusion bag) at
25 °C must not exceed 12 hours (24 hours if refrigerated).
Stability of the diluted solution in infusion bags is established as 12 hours at 25 °C or 24 hours if
stored under refrigeration at 2 °C – 8 °C.
Cubicin given as 2-minute intravenous injection (adult patients only)
Water should not be used for reconstitution of Cubicin for intravenous injection. Cubicin should only
be reconstituted with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %).
A 50 mg/ml concentration of Cubicin for injection is obtained by reconstituting the lyophilised
product with 7 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection.
The lyophilised product takes approximately 15 minutes to dissolve. The fully reconstituted product
will appear clear and may have a few small bubbles or foam around the edge of the vial.
To prepare Cubicin for intravenous injection, please adhere to the following instructions:
Aseptic technique should be used throughout to reconstitute lyophilised Cubicin.
1. 
The polypropylene flip off cap should be removed to expose the central portions of the rubber
stopper. Wipe the top of the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab or other antiseptic solution
and allow to dry. After cleaning, do not touch the rubber stopper or allow it to touch any other
surface. Draw 7 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection into a syringe
using a sterile transfer needle that is 21 gauge or smaller diameter, or a needleless device, then
slowly inject through the centre of the rubber stopper into the vial pointing the needle towards
the wall of the vial.
2. 
The vial should be gently rotated to ensure complete wetting of the product and then allowed to
stand for 10 minutes.
3. 
Finally the vial should be gently rotated/swirled for a few minutes as needed to obtain a clear
reconstituted solution. Vigorous shaking/agitation should be avoided to prevent foaming of the
product.
4. 
The reconstituted solution should be checked carefully to ensure that the product is in solution
and visually inspected for the absence of particulates prior to use. Reconstituted solutions of
Cubicin range in colour from pale yellow to light brown.
5. 
Slowly remove the reconstituted liquid (50 mg daptomycin/ml) from the vial using a sterile
needle that is 21 gauge or smaller in diameter.
6. 
Invert the vial in order to allow the solution to drain towards the stopper. Using a new syringe,
insert the needle into the inverted vial. Keeping the vial inverted, position the needle tip at the
very bottom of the solution in the vial when drawing the solution into the syringe. Before
removing the needle from the vial, pull the plunger all the way back to the end of the syringe
barrel in order to remove all of the solution from the inverted vial.
Replace needle with a new needle for the intravenous injection.
Expel air, large bubbles, and any excess solution in order to obtain the required dose.
The reconstituted solution should then be injected intravenously slowly over 2 minutes.
7. 
8. 
9. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability on the reconstituted solution in the vial has been demonstrated
for 12 hours at 25 °C and up to 48 hours if stored under refrigeration (2 °C – 8 °C).
However, from a microbiological point of view the product should be used immediately. If not used
immediately, in-use storage times are the responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer
than 24 hours at 2 °C – 8 °C unless reconstitution /dilution has taken place in controlled and validated
43
aseptic conditions.
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned
above.
Cubicin vials are for single-use only. Any unused portion remaining in the vial should be discarded.
44
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Cubicin 500 mg powder for solution for injection or infusion
daptomycin
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains
important information for you.
-  Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
- 
-  This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse.
them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
- 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet
1.  What Cubicin is and what it is used for
2.  What you need to know before you are given Cubicin
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Cubicin is given
Possible side effects
How to store Cubicin
Contents of the pack and other information
1.  What Cubicin is and what it is used for
The active substance in Cubicin powder for solution for injection or infusion is daptomycin.
Daptomycin is an antibacterial that can stop the growth of certain bacteria. Cubicin is used in adults
and in children and adolescents (age from 1 to 17 years) to treat infections of the skin and the tissues
below the skin. It is also used to treat infections in the blood when associated with skin infection. 
Cubicin is also used in adults to treat infections in the tissues that line the inside of the heart
(including heart valves) which are caused by a type of bacteria called Staphylococcus aureus. It is also
used to treat infections in the blood caused by the same type of bacteria when associated with heart
infection.
Depending on the type of infection(s) that you have, your doctor may also prescribe other
antibacterials while you are receiving treatment with Cubicin.
2.  What you need to know before you are given Cubicin
You should not be given Cubicin
If you are allergic to daptomycin or to sodium hydroxide or to any of the other ingredients of this
medicine (listed in section 6).
If this applies to you, tell your doctor or nurse. If you think you may be allergic, ask your doctor or
nurse for advice.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or nurse before you are given Cubicin:
- 
If you have, or have previously had kidney problems. Your doctor may need to change the dose
of Cubicin (see section 3 of this leaflet).
- 
- 
Occasionally, patients receiving Cubicin may develop tender or aching muscles or muscle
weakness (see section 4 of this leaflet for more information). If this happens tell your doctor.
Your doctor will make sure you have a blood test and will advise whether or not to continue
with Cubicin. The symptoms generally go away within a few days of stopping Cubicin.
If you have ever developed a severe skin rash or skin peeling, blistering and/or mouth sores, or
serious kidney problems after taking daptomycin.
45
- 
If you are very overweight. There is a possibility that your blood levels of Cubicin could be
higher than those found in persons of average weight and you may need careful monitoring in
case of side effects.
If any of these applies to you, tell your doctor or nurse before you are given Cubicin.
Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you develop any of the following symptoms:
- 
Serious, acute allergic reactions have been observed in patients treated with nearly all
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
antibacterial agents, including Cubicin. The symptoms can include wheezing, difficulty
breathing, swelling of the face, neck and throat, rashes and hives, or fever. 
Serious skin disorders have been reported with the use of Cubicin. The symptoms that occur
with these skin disorders can include:
- 
- 
a new or worsening fever,
red raised or fluid-filled skin spots which may start in your armpits or on your chest or
groin areas and which can spread over a large area of your body,
blisters or sores in your mouth or on your genitals.
- 
A serious kidney problem has been reported with the use of Cubicin. The symptoms can include
fever and rash.
Any unusual tingling or numbness of the hands or feet, loss of feeling or difficulties with
movements. If this happens, tell your doctor who will decide whether you should continue the
treatment.
Diarrhoea, especially if you notice blood or mucus, or if diarrhoea becomes severe or
persistent.
New or worsening fever, cough or difficulty breathing. These may be signs of a rare but serious
lung disorder called eosinophilic pneumonia. Your doctor will check the condition of your
lungs and decide whether or not you should continue Cubicin treatment.
Cubicin may interfere with laboratory tests that measure how well your blood is clotting. The results
can suggest poor blood clotting when, in fact, there is no problem. Therefore, it is important that your
doctor takes into account that you are receiving Cubicin. Please inform your doctor that you are on
treatment with Cubicin.
Your doctor will perform blood tests to monitor the health of your muscles both before you start
treatment and frequently during treatment with Cubicin.
Children and adolescents
Cubicin should not be administered to children below one year of age as studies in animals have
indicated that this age group may experience severe side effects.
Use in elderly
People over the age of 65 can be given the same dose as other adults, provided their kidneys are
working well.
Other medicines and Cubicin
Tell your doctor or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines.
It is particularly important that you mention the following:
-  Medicines called statins or fibrates (to lower cholesterol) or ciclosporin (a medicinal product
used in transplantation to prevent organ rejection or for other conditions, e.g. rheumatoid
arthritis or atopic dermatitis). It is possible that the risk of side effects affecting the muscles
may be higher when any of these medicines (and some others that can affect muscles) is taken
during treatment with Cubicin. Your doctor may decide not to give you Cubicin or to stop the
other medicine for a while.
- 
Pain killing medicines called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or COX-2
inhibitors (e.g. celecoxib). These could interfere with the effects of Cubicin in the kidney.
-  Oral anti-coagulants (e.g. warfarin), which are medicines that prevent blood from clotting. It
may be necessary for your doctor to monitor your blood clotting times.
46
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Cubicin is not usually given to pregnant women. If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may
be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before you are
given this medicine.
Do not breast-feed if you are receiving Cubicin, because it may pass into your breast milk and could
affect the baby.
Driving and using machines
Cubicin has no known effects on the ability to drive or use machines.
Cubicin contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially
‘sodium-free’.
3.  How Cubicin is given
Cubicin will usually be given to you by a doctor or a nurse.
Adults (18 years of age and above)
The dose will depend on how much you weigh and the type of infection being treated. The usual dose
for adults is 4 mg for every kilogram (kg) of body weight once daily for skin infections or 6 mg for
every kg of body weight once daily for a heart infection or a blood infection associated with skin or
heart infection. In adult patients, this dose is given directly into your blood stream (into a vein), either
as an infusion lasting about 30 minutes or as an injection lasting about 2 minutes. The same dose is
recommended in people aged over 65 years provided their kidneys are working well.
If your kidneys do not work well, you may receive Cubicin less often, e.g. once every other day. If
you are receiving dialysis, and your next dose of Cubicin is due on a dialysis day, you will be usually
given Cubicin after the dialysis session.
Children and adolescents (1 to 17 years of age)
The dose for children and adolescents (1 to 17 years of age) will depend on the age of patient and the
type of infection being treated. This dose is given directly into the blood stream (into a vein), as an
infusion lasting about 30-60 minutes.
A course of treatment usually lasts for 1 to 2 weeks for skin infections. For blood or heart infections
and skin infections your doctor will decide how long you should be treated.
Detailed instructions for use and handling are given at the end of the leaflet.
4. 
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
The most serious side effects are described below:
Serious side effects with frequency not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available
data)
- 
A hypersensitivity reaction (serious allergic reaction including anaphylaxis and angioedema)
has been reported, in some cases during administration of Cubicin. This serious allergic
reaction needs immediate medical attention. Tell your doctor or nurse straight away if you
experience any of the following symptoms:
- 
- 
Chest pain or tightness,
Rash or hives,
47
Fever,
Wheezing,
Rapid or weak pulse,
Shivering or trembling,
Swelling around throat,
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Tell your doctor straight away if you experience unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or
Metallic taste.
Hot flushes,
Dizziness,
Fainting,
- 
weakness. Muscle problems can be serious, including muscle breakdown (rhabdomyolysis),
which can result in kidney damage.
Other serious side effects that have been reported with the use of Cubicin are:
- 
A rare but potentially serious lung disorder called eosinophilic pneumonia, mostly after more
than 2 weeks of treatment. The symptoms can include difficulty breathing, new or worsening
cough, or new or worsening fever.
- 
Serious skin disorders. The symptoms can include:
- 
- 
a new or worsening fever,
red raised or fluid-filled skin spots which may start in your armpits or on your chest or
groin areas and which can spread over a large area of your body,
blisters or sores in your mouth or on your genitals.
- 
A serious kidney problem. The symptoms can include fever and rash.
- 
If you experience these symptoms, tell your doctor or nurse straight away. Your doctor will perform
additional tests to make a diagnosis.
The most frequently reported side effects are described below:
Headache,
Urinary tract infection,
Fever, weakness (asthenia),
High or low blood pressure,
Fungal infections such as thrush,
Dizziness, anxiety, difficulty in sleeping,
Decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia),
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Pain, itchiness or redness at the site of infusion,
Abdominal swelling or bloating,
Constipation, abdominal pain,
Pain in arms or legs,
Skin rash or itching,
Flatulence,
Diarrhoea, feeling sick (nausea) or being sick (vomiting),
Blood testing showing higher levels of liver enzymes or creatine phosphokinase (CPK).
Other side effects which may occur following Cubicin treatment are described below:
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
- 
Blood disorders (e.g. increased number of small blood particles called platelets, which may
increase the tendency for blood clotting, or higher levels of certain types of white blood cells),
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Decreased appetite,
Tingling or numbness of the hands or feet, taste disturbance,
Trembling,
Changes in heart rhythm, flushes,
Indigestion (dyspepsia), inflammation of the tongue,
Itchy rash of skin,
Muscle pain, cramping, or weakness, inflammation of the muscles (myositis), joint pain,
48
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Kidney problems,
Inflammation and irritation of the vagina,
General pain or weakness, tiredness (fatigue),
Blood test showing increased levels of blood sugar, serum creatinine, myoglobin, or lactate
dehydrogenase (LDH), prolonged blood clotting time or imbalance of salts,
Itchy eyes.
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)
- 
- 
Yellowing of the skin and eyes,
Prothrombin time prolonged.
Frequency not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data)
Antibacterial-associated colitis, including pseudomembranous colitis (severe or persistent diarrhoea
containing blood and/or mucus, associated with abdominal pain or fever), easy bruising, bleeding
gums, or nosebleeds.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the
safety of this medicine.
5.  How to store Cubicin
- 
- 
- 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and label after EXP.
The expiry date refers to the last day of the month.
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C).
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information
What Cubicin contains
- 
- 
The other ingredient is sodium hydroxide.
The active substance is daptomycin. One vial of powder contains 500 mg daptomycin.
What Cubicin looks like and contents of the pack
Cubicin powder for solution for injection or infusion is supplied as a pale yellow to light brown cake
or powder in a glass vial. It is mixed with a solvent to form a liquid before it is administered.
Cubicin is available in packs containing 1 vial or 5 vials.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V., Waarderweg 39, 2031 BN Haarlem, The Netherlands
Manufacturer
FAREVA Mirabel, Route de Marsat, Riom, 63963, Clermont-Ferrand Cedex 9, France
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing
Authorisation Holder.
49
Belgique/België/Belgien
MSD Belgium
Tél/Tel: +32(0)27766211
dpoc_belux@merck.com
България 
Мерк Шарп и Доум България ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 819 3737
info-msdbg@merck.com
Česká republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme s.r.o.
Tel.: +420 233 010 111
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
Lietuva
UAB Merck Sharp & Dohme
Tel.: +370 5 278 02 47
msd_lietuva@merck.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
MSD Belgium
Tél/Tel: +32(0)27766211
dpoc_belux@merck.com
Magyarország
MSD Pharma Hungary Kft.
Tel.: +361 888 53 00
hungary_msd@merck.com
Danmark
MSD Danmark ApS
Tlf: +45 4482 4000
dkmail@merck.com
Malta
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Tel: 8007 4433 (+356 99917558)
malta_info@merck.com
Deutschland
MSD Sharp & Dohme GmbH
Nederland
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Tel: 0800 673 673 673 (+49 (0) 89 4561 0)
Tel: 0800 9999000 (+31 23 5153153)
e-mail@msd.de
medicalinfo.nl@merck.com
Eesti
Merck Sharp & Dohme OÜ
Tel.: +372 6144 200
msdeesti@merck.com
Ελλάδα
MSD Α.Φ.Β.Ε.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 210 98 97 300
dpoc_greece@merck.com
Norge
MSD (Norge) AS
Tlf: +47 32 20 73 00
msdnorge@ msd.no
Österreich
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ges.m.b.H.
Tel: +43 (0) 1 26 044
dpoc_austria@merck.com
España
Merck Sharp & Dohme de España, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 321 06 00
msd_info@merck.com
Polska
MSD Polska Sp.z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 549 51 00
msdpolska@merck.com
France
MSD France
Tél: + 33 (0) 1 80 46 40 40
Hrvatska
Merck Sharp & Dohme d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385 1 6611 333
croatia_info@merck.com
Portugal
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Lda
Tel: +351 21 4465700
 inform_pt@merck.com
România
Merck Sharp & Dohme Romania S.R.L.
Tel: +40 21 529 29 00
msdromania@merck.com
50
Ireland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health)
Slovenija
Merck Sharp & Dohme, inovativna zdravila d.o.o.
Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 299 8700
medinfo_ireland@merck.com
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
Ιtalia
MSD Italia S.r.l.
Tel: + 386 1 5204 201
msd_slovenia@merck.com
Slovenská republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme, s. r. o.
Tel.: +421 2 58282010
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
Suomi/Finland
MSD Finland Oy
Tel: 800 23 99 89 (+39 06 361911)
Puh/Tel: +358 (0) 9 804650
medicalinformation.it@msd.com
info@msd.fi
Κύπρος
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Τηλ: 800 00 673 (+357 22866700)
cyprus_info@merck.com 
Sverige
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Sweden) AB
Tel: +46 77 5700488
medicinskinfo@merck.com
Latvija 
SIA Merck Sharp & Dohme Latvija 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health)
Tel: +371 67364224 
msd_lv@merck.com. 
Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfoNI@msd.com
This leaflet was last revised in <{MM/YYYY}><{month YYYY}>.
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu
51
 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only
Important: Please refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics before prescribing.
Instructions for use and handling
500 mg presentation:
In adults, daptomycin may be administered intravenously as an infusion over 30 minutes or as an
injection over 2 minutes. Unlike in adults, daptomycin should not be administered by injection over a
2-minute period in paediatric patients. Paediatric patients 7 to 17 years old should receive daptomycin
infused over 30 minutes. In paediatric patients under 7 years old receiving a 9-12 mg/kg dose,
daptomycin should be administered over 60 minutes. Preparation of the solution for infusion requires
an additional dilution step as detailed below.
Cubicin given as an intravenous infusion over 30 or 60 minutes
A 50 mg/ml concentration of Cubicin for infusion can be achieved by reconstituting the lyophilised
product with 10 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection.
The lyophilised product takes approximately 15 minutes to dissolve. The fully reconstituted product
will appear clear and may have a few small bubbles or foam around the edge of the vial.
To prepare Cubicin for intravenous infusion, please adhere to the following instructions:
Aseptic technique should be used throughout to reconstitute or dilute lyophilised Cubicin.
For Reconstitution:
1. 
The polypropylene flip off cap should be removed to expose the central portions of the rubber
stopper. Wipe the top of the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab or other antiseptic solution
and allow to dry. After cleaning, do not touch the rubber stopper or allow it to touch any other
surface. Draw 10 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection into a syringe
using a sterile transfer needle that is 21 gauge or smaller in diameter, or a needleless device,
then slowly inject through the centre of the rubber stopper into the vial pointing the needle
towards the wall of the vial.
2. 
The vial should be gently rotated to ensure complete wetting of the product and then allowed to
stand for 10 minutes.
3. 
Finally the vial should be gently rotated/swirled for a few minutes as needed to obtain a clear
reconstituted solution. Vigorous shaking/agitation should be avoided to prevent foaming of the
product.
4. 
The reconstituted solution should be checked carefully to ensure that the product is in solution
and visually inspected for the absence of particulates prior to use. Reconstituted solutions of
Cubicin range in colour from pale yellow to light brown.
5. 
The reconstituted solution should then be diluted with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %)
(typical volume 50 ml).
For Dilution:
1. 
Slowly remove the appropriate reconstituted liquid (50 mg daptomycin/ml) from the vial using
a new sterile needle that is 21 gauge or smaller in diameter by inverting the vial in order to
allow the solution to drain towards the stopper. Using a syringe, insert the needle into the
inverted vial. Keeping the vial inverted, position the needle tip at the very bottom of the
solution in the vial when drawing the solution into the syringe. Before removing the needle
from the vial, pull the plunger all the way back to the end of the syringe barrel in order to
remove the required solution from the inverted vial.
2. 
3. 
4. 
Expel air, large bubbles, and any excess solution in order to obtain the required dose.
Transfer the required reconstituted dose into 50 ml sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %).
The reconstituted and diluted solution should then be infused intravenously over 30 or
52
60 minutes.
Cubicin is not physically or chemically compatible with glucose-containing solutions. The following
have been shown to be compatible when added to Cubicin containing infusion solutions: aztreonam,
ceftazidime, ceftriaxone, gentamicin, fluconazole, levofloxacin, dopamine, heparin and lidocaine.
The combined storage time (reconstituted solution in vial and diluted solution in infusion bag) at
25 °C must not exceed 12 hours (24 hours if refrigerated).
Stability of the diluted solution in infusion bags is established as 12 hours at 25 °C or 24 hours if
stored under refrigeration at 2 °C – 8 °C.
Cubicin given as 2 -minute intravenous injection (adult patients only)
Water should not be used for reconstitution of Cubicin for intravenous injection. Cubicin should only
be reconstituted with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %).
A 50 mg/ml concentration of Cubicin for injection is obtained by reconstituting the lyophilised
product with 10 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection.
The lyophilised product takes approximately 15 minutes to dissolve. The fully reconstituted product
will appear clear and may have a few small bubbles or foam around the edge of the vial.
To prepare Cubicin for intravenous injection, please adhere to the following instructions:
Aseptic technique should be used throughout to reconstitute lyophilised Cubicin.
1. 
The polypropylene flip off cap should be removed to expose the central portions of the rubber
stopper. Wipe the top of the rubber stopper with an alcohol swab or other antiseptic solution
and allow to dry. After cleaning, do not touch the rubber stopper or allow it to touch any other
surface. Draw 10 ml of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9 %) solution for injection into a syringe
using a sterile transfer needle that is 21 gauge or smaller diameter, or a needleless device, then
slowly inject through the centre of the rubber stopper into the vial pointing the needle towards
the wall of the vial.
2. 
The vial should be gently rotated to ensure complete wetting of the product and then allowed to
stand for 10 minutes.
3. 
Finally the vial should be gently rotated/swirled for a few minutes as needed to obtain a clear
reconstituted solution. Vigorous shaking/agitation should be avoided to prevent foaming of the
product.
4. 
The reconstituted solution should be checked carefully to ensure that the product is in solution
and visually inspected for the absence of particulates prior to use. Reconstituted solutions of
Cubicin range in colour from pale yellow to light brown.
5. 
Slowly remove the reconstituted liquid (50 mg daptomycin/ml) from the vial using a sterile
needle that is 21 gauge or smaller in diameter.
6. 
Invert the vial in order to allow the solution to drain towards the stopper. Using a new syringe,
insert the needle into the inverted vial. Keeping the vial inverted, position the needle tip at the
very bottom of the solution in the vial when drawing the solution into the syringe. Before
removing the needle from the vial, pull the plunger all the way back to the end of the syringe
barrel in order to remove all of the solution from the inverted vial.
Replace needle with a new needle for the intravenous injection.
Expel air, large bubbles, and any excess solution in order to obtain the required dose.
The reconstituted solution should then be injected intravenously slowly over 2 minutes.
7. 
8. 
9. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability on the reconstituted solution in the vial has been demonstrated
for 12 hours at 25 °C and up to 48 hours if stored under refrigeration (2 °C – 8 °C).
However, from a microbiological point of view the product should be used immediately. If not used
immediately, in-use storage times are the responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer
53
than 24 hours at 2 °C – 8 °C unless reconstitution /dilution has taken place in controlled and validated
aseptic conditions.
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned
above.
Cubicin vials are for single-use only. Any unused portion remaining in the vial should be discarded.
54
