15 December 2016 
EMA/2925/2017 
Human Medicines Evaluation Division  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Cubicin  
daptomycin 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000637/P46/033 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Introduction 
The present paediatric data is submitted by the MAH in accordance with article 46 of Regulation EC No 
1901/2006. 
The  applicant  has  submitted  a  Critical  Expert  Overview  to  provide  information  from  a  recently 
completed  phase  IV  safety,  efficacy  and  pharmacokinetic  (PK)  study  (Study  DAP-PEDS-11-02) 
involving  paediatric  patients  (aged  1 to 17  years  old)  with Staphylococcus  aureus  bacteraemia  (SAB) 
sponsored by Cubist Pharmaceuticals, LLC, a subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc.  
About the product 
Daptomycin  is  a  cyclic  lipopeptide  natural  product  that  is  active  against  Gram  positive  bacteria  only. 
The  mechanism  of  action  involves  binding  to  bacterial  membranes  of  both  growing  and  stationary 
phase cells causing depolarisation and leading to a rapid inhibition of protein, DNA, and RNA synthesis. 
This results in bacterial cell death with negligible cell lysis. 
Daptomycin  pharmacokinetics  are  generally  linear  and  time-independent  at  doses  of  4  to  12  mg/kg 
administered  as  a  single  daily  dose  by  30-minute  intravenous  infusion  for  up  to  14  days  in  healthy 
volunteers. Steady state concentrations are achieved by the third daily dose. Daptomycin is eliminated 
primarily by the kidney. 
Cubicin was first authorised via the centralised route in 2006. 
Approved indication(s) and posology 
Indication 
Cubicin is indicated for the treatment of the following infections: 
- Adult and paediatric (1 to 17 years of age) patients with complicated skin and soft-tissue infections 
(cSSTI). 
- Adult patients with right-sided infective endocarditis (RIE) due to Staphylococcus aureus.  
-  Adult  patients  with  Staphylococcus  aureus  bacteraemia  (SAB)  when  associated  with  RIE  or  with 
cSSTI. 
Posology 
Adults 
- cSSTI without concurrent Staphylococcus aureus bacteraemia: Cubicin 4 mg/kg is administered once 
every 24 hours for 7-14 days or until the infection is resolved  
-  cSSTI  with  concurrent  Staphylococcus  aureus  bacteraemia:  Cubicin  6  mg/kg  is  administered  once 
every 24 hours. The duration of therapy may  need to be longer than 14 days  in accordance with the 
perceived risk of complications in the individual patient.  
- Known or suspected right-sided infective endocarditis due to Staphylococcus aureus: Cubicin 6 mg/kg 
is  administered  once  every  24  hours.  The  duration  of  therapy  should  be  in  accordance  with  available 
official recommendations.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/2925/2017  
Page 2/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In patients with renal impairment, dose adjustment is needed. 
Paediatric population 
Cubicin  is  indicated  in  children  between  1  and  17  years  of  age  with  complicated  skin  and  soft-tissue 
infections and the posology is based on age bands. The safety and efficacy of Cubicin in children and 
adolescents aged below 18 years has not been established for other indications. 
1.  Scientific discussion 
1.1.  Clinical aspects 
Study Design 
Study  DAP-PEDS-11-02  [P005]  was  a  Phase  4,  open  label  (Evaluator-blinded),  comparative,  multi-
centre,  multi-national  study  was  designed  to  describe  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  intravenous  (IV) 
daptomycin versus standard of care (SOC) comparator in paediatric subjects aged 1 to 17 years with 
SAB. 
The primary objective of this study was to assess the safety of IV daptomycin versus SOC comparator 
antibiotics (hereafter referred to as comparator) in paediatric subjects aged 1 to 17 years of age with 
SAB.  
Key secondary objectives included comparing the efficacy of IV daptomycin versus the comparator for 
bacteraemia caused by S. aureus and determining exposure by measuring plasma levels of daptomycin 
at pre-dose (Ctrough) and end of infusion (Cmax) to explore exposure-response safety analyses in the 
target population. 
The  study  was  conducted  initially  in  paediatric  patients  between  the  ages  of  >  4  and  17  years. 
Following  review  of  safety  data  by  an  independent  Data  Monitoring  Committee,  the  protocol  was 
sequentially amended to allow enrolment of paediatric subjects down to 1 year of age. 
Study Dates 
06 March 2013 (FSFV) to 20 January 2016 (LPLV), with 65 sites eligible to enrol world-wide. 
Inclusion/ Exclusion criteria 
Subjects were enrolled and study medication began based on a diagnosis of proven or probable SAB. 
Proven infections were considered those with S. aureus identified from at least one blood culture bottle 
by  conventional  culture  methods  or  by  a  rapid  diagnostic  test  within  3  days  prior  to  the  first  dose  of 
study  drug.  Probable  infections  were  those  with  a  preliminary  blood  culture  result  demonstrating 
Gram-positive  cocci  in  clusters  upon  Gram  stain,  suggestive  of  a  staphylococcal  infection.  If  the  final 
blood  culture  yielded  only  coagulase  negative  Staphylococci  (CoNS)  after  the  subject  was  enrolled, 
only high risk subjects with persistent bacteraemia documented by multiple cultures taken on separate 
days or from separate sites yielding the same organism could continue on study therapy. Subjects at 
high  risk  included,  but  were  not  limited  to,  immunocompromised  children,  cancer  patients,  or  those 
with a potential source of infection from devices or IV catheters that were not intended to be removed. 
In such cases the Sponsor-designated Medical Monitor was contacted to continue treatment. 
Subjects were excluded if they had previous systemic antimicrobial therapy effective against S. aureus 
exceeding  72  hours  in  duration  administered  anytime  during  the  96  hours  prior  to  the  first  dose  of 
study drug; with the exception: Subject was eligible if culture data demonstrated in vitro resistance to 
prior IV antibiotic. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/2925/2017  
Page 3/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  this  study,  subjects  were  enrolled  into  three  age  groups  and  treated  with  daptomycin  or 
comparator, based on a 2:1 randomization, which was stratified by age group. The study was designed 
to enrol ~75 paediatric subjects, including ~50 assigned to the daptomycin arm and ~25 assigned to 
the  comparator  arm.  Subjects  between  the  ages  of  1  and  17  years  were  to  be  randomized  and 
stratified by age group, to receive either daptomycin or comparator (suggested as IV vancomycin, IV 
clindamycin,  IV  semi-synthetic  penicillins  [nafcillin,  oxacillin,  or  cloxacillin],  or  IV  first-generation 
cephalosporins)  in  a  ratio  of  2:1,  respectively,  according  to  the  3  age  groups.  Switch  to  oral  therapy 
was discouraged, but was acceptable, if allowed by study site’s practice standard. 
Study population 
A  total  of  82  paediatric  patients  were  included,  55  paediatric  subjects  randomized  to  receive 
daptomycin and 27 randomized to receive SOC.  
The subjects received the following amounts of daptomycin: 
The analysis populations were as follows: 
Safety  Population:  The  Safety  population  included  all  subjects  who  received  any  dose  of  IV  study 
medication (daptomycin or comparator).  
Intent-to-Treat  (ITT)  Population:  The  ITT  population  included  all  randomized  subjects  including  those 
who were not exposed to any test product, and were analysed based on the treatment to which they 
were randomized. 
Modified  Intent-to-Treat  (MITT)  Population:  The  MITT  population  included  all  randomized  and  treated 
subjects  with  at  least  one  dose  of  study  drug  who  met  the  clinical  criteria  for  the  study  infection  at 
Baseline  (positive  blood  culture  for  S.  aureus  or  CoNS  in  high  risk  patients  or  probable  bacteraemia 
[Gram-positive cocci on Gram stain at Baseline]). 
Microbiological  Modified  Intent-to-Treat  (mMITT)  Population:  The  mMITT  population  included  all  MITT 
subjects who had proven S. aureus bacteraemia at Baseline. 
Clinically  Evaluable  (CE)  Population:  The  CE  population  was  a  subpopulation  of  the  mMITT  including 
subjects who met specific criteria related to the required assessments: 
o Received the correct drug, as randomized 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/2925/2017  
Page 4/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o  Received  appropriate  duration  of  treatment  (minimum  and  maximum  treatment  durations  are 
outlined in the Clinical Evaluability Review Plan) 
o Had the necessary clinical and microbiological efficacy evaluations performed at the TOC/Safety Visit 
and were not evaluated as “non-evaluable” 
o  Did  not  receive  effective  systemic  confounding  antibiotics  at  Baseline  (>72  hours  administered 
duration anytime during the 96 hours prior to the first dose) 
o Did not receive more than one dose of effective systemic on-study antibiotics from the first dose of 
study drug to the TOC/Safety Visit. 
Exposure  Response  Population:  The  exposure  response  population  included  any  subject  with  at  least 
one peak or trough sample (of daptomycin plasma concentration). 
Dose justification 
The  dosing  regimen  of  daptomycin  for  this  study  was  based  on  PK  data  in  paediatric  subjects, 
population PK modelling and simulation, and nonclinical effects in juvenile dogs. From observations in 
non-clinical studies with 7-week old juvenile dogs, it was judged possible that young children may be 
more sensitive to the adverse effects of daptomycin than adults, especially in the developing nervous 
system of young children. For skeletal muscle toxicity, which is driven by AUC, the no-observed-effect-
levels  (NOEL)  exposure  for  7-week  old  juvenile  dogs  treated  for  14  days  was  1250  μg*h/mL.  For 
nervous system effects, which are driven by Cmax, the NOEL in 7- week old juvenile dogs treated for 
14  days  was  705  μg/mL.  High  doses  of  12  mg/kg  in  adults  were  well  tolerated  with  a  mean  steady-
state Cmax value of 184 μg/mL and mean AUC of 1277 μg*hr/mL (Daptomycin IB). 
Daptomycin  exhibits  concentration-dependent  bactericidal  effect  and  AUC/MIC 
is  the  main 
PK/Pharmacodynamic  (PD)  driver  of  efficacy.  The  dose  selection  for  this  study  was  based  on  the 
following key points: 
-The intent of dose selection was to target exposures (AUC) in paediatric patients that are comparable 
to  the  exposures  seen  in  adults  treated  with  6  mg/kg  for  SAB.  In  paediatric  patients,  this  requires  a 
higher mg/kg dose, since clearance in paediatric patients is higher than in adults. 
-Higher doses increase the potential of an elevated Cmax. This possibility was mitigated by extending 
the duration of the infusion from 30 to 60 minutes for paediatric patients under 7 years of age, where 
a higher dose (12 mg/kg) was determined necessary to achieve efficacy in this indication. 
-Doses  were  selected  to  ensure  AUC  exposures  in  paediatric  patients  within  the  range  of  safe  and 
efficacious exposures reported in adults treated with 6 mg/kg for bacteraemia (90% of adult subjects 
had AUC exposures between 270 to 1151μg*h/mL; mean 622 μg*h/mL; median 543 μg*h/mL). These 
exposures were well within the safety margin of the observed NOEL in the juvenile dog study.  
Based on exposure matching with adults the following doses were selected for this study: 
For ages 12–17 years: 7 mg/kg IV q24h 
For ages 7–11 years: 9 mg/kg IV q24h 
For ages 1–6 years: 12 mg/kg IV q24h 
Duration of Treatment 
Maximum  total  duration  of  study  drug  therapy  was  not  to  exceed  42  days,  except  in  special 
circumstances per protocol. 
Duration of therapy post randomization: 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/2925/2017  
Page 5/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a  Some  of  this  therapy  could  have  been  administered  at  home  as  per  local  practice.  Switch  to  oral  therapy  was 
discouraged, but was acceptable, if allowed by study site’s practice standard. 
b Subjects with complicated bacteremia with osteomyelitis and positive blood cultures may have received a shorter 
duration of IV therapy (less than 7 days) after discussion with the Sponsor designated Medical Monitor. 
c  Children  under  12  years  of  age  who  were  classified  as  having  complicated  bacteremia  after  IV  treatment  was 
started and who responded to treatment by Day 28 but who required additional IV treatment may have continued 
on IV daptomycin or SOC if benefit outweighed the potential safety risk. 
Criteria for Evaluation 
Evaluation of Safety:  
The  safety  of  daptomycin  and  SOC  were  evaluated  by  monitoring  adverse  events  (AEs),  serious 
adverse  events  (SAEs),  and  changes  in  physical  and  focused  neurological  examinations  and  serum 
chemistry  (including  serum  CPK  level),  haematology,  and  vital  signs.  Safety  was  assessed  for  the 
entire  study  period  from  the  administration  of  the  first  dose  of  study  medication  through  the  Last 
Follow-up Visit (25 to 35 days after the last dose of study drug). 
Evaluation of Efficacy: 
-Clinical  Outcome:  Clinical  outcome  was  based  on  a  blinded  Investigator’s  (blinded  Evaluator) 
assessment  of  clinical  response  at  the  TOC/Safety  Visit.  Outcomes  were  assessed  as  success  (cure, 
improved),  failure,  or  non-evaluable  with  respect  to  resolution  or  improvement  of  clinical  signs  and 
symptoms. 
-Microbiological Response: Microbiological response was determined as microbiological success, failure, 
or non-evaluable, based on evaluation of Baseline infecting pathogen at the TOC/Safety Visit. 
-Overall  Outcome:  The  overall  outcome  was  determined  based  on  the  subject’s  microbiological 
response  and  clinical  outcome  at the  TOC/Safety  Visit.  Overall outcome  was a  success  if  both  clinical 
and microbiological outcomes were successful. 
Exposure Response Analysis:  
Daptomycin  exposures  were  determined  by  measuring  plasma  levels  at  pre-dose  (plasma 
concentration in sample obtained just before dosing [Ctrough]) and end of infusion (maximum plasma 
concentration  [Cmax])  between  Days  3  and  6  of  IV  daptomycin  treatment  to  explore  exposure 
response safety analyses in all age groups. The correlation between exposure (peak and trough) and 
CPK  levels  was  assessed  graphically.  The  trough  and  Cmax  values  for  all  subjects  with  an  AE  in  the 
Standard  MedDRA  Query  (SMQ)  categories  of  Peripheral  Neuropathy  and  the  category  of 
Rhabdomyolysis/Myopathy were evaluated. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/2925/2017  
Page 6/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
Subject Disposition and Baseline Characteristics: 
A total of 82 subjects were randomized into the study. The ITT population included 55 subjects in the 
daptomycin  treatment  arm  and  27  subjects  in  the  SOC  comparator  treatment  arm.  The  study  was 
conducted  in  North  America,  Europe,  Central/South  America,  and  Australia/Asia.  The  majority  of 
subjects (76.8%) were enrolled in the United States (36 subjects) and Ukraine (25 subjects). Overall, 
the  study  completion  rate  was  high;  (96.3%)  subjects  completed  the  study  through  the  TOC/Safety 
Visit,  which  included  54  (98.2%)  daptomycin-treated  subjects  and  24  (92.3%)  SOC-treated  subjects. 
Similarly,  IV  study  drug  completion  rates  were  high  (85.5%  and  88.5%  in  the  daptomycin  and  SOC 
treatment  arms,  respectively).  The  most  common  reasons  for  premature  discontinuation  of  IV  study 
drug  were  AEs,  persistently  positive  blood  cultures,  subject/parent/legal  guardian’s  decision,  or  other 
reasons. 
In general, the Baseline demographic and disease characteristics were similar between the 2 treatment 
arms  and  consistent  across  age  groups  and  analysis  populations.  The  majority  of  the  subjects  were 
White (75.3%) and non-Hispanic or Latino (71.6%). The percentage of males (66.7%) was higher than 
females, but balanced between the 2 treatment arms. The mean age was 8.7 years (range 2.0 to 17.6 
years). Mean weight, height, and body mass index (BMI) were typical of the enrolled age groups and 
were generally similar between the treatment arms across age groups. 
Majority  of  subjects  (77.8%)  had  methicillin-susceptible  S.  aureus  (MSSA)  as  the  Baseline  infecting 
pathogen.  The  majority  of  randomized  subjects  (N=73)  had  proven  S.  aureus  infection  (51  on 
daptomycin  and  22  on  SOC  comparator),  with  a  similar  distribution  of  methicillin-resistant  S.  aureus 
(MRSA)  and  methicillin-susceptible  S.  aureus  (MSSA)  in  each  treatment  arm.  MSSA  infections  were 
noted in 80.0% of the daptomycin arm and 73.1% of the SOC arm, while MSRA infections were noted 
in 12.7% of the daptomycin arm and 11.5% of the SOC arm. Among the subjects whose bacteraemia 
was classified, bacteraemia was classified as complicated in 51.9% in the daptomycin arm and 66.7% 
in the SOC arm. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/2925/2017  
Page 7/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Safety: 
Eighty-one  of  the  82  subjects  (98.8%)  in  the  ITT  population  received  study  drug.  Hence,  the  Safety 
population  includes  81  subjects;  55  daptomycin-treated  subjects  and  26  SOC-treated  subjects. 
Daptomycin administered at doses of 7 to 12 mg/kg once daily for up to 6 weeks to paediatric subjects 
aged 2 to 17 years, respectively, with S. aureus bacteraemia was generally safe and well tolerated. 
The  overall  incidence  of  TEAEs  was  65.5%  and  76.9%  subjects  in  the  daptomycin  and  SOC 
(comparator) arms, respectively. Treatment-related TEAEs were noted in 14.5% and 15.4% subjects in 
the daptomycin and SOC arms, respectively. The safety profile was comparable across age groups and 
similar to the SOC. 
The  type,  incidence,  and  severity  of  TEAEs  reported  for  daptomycin  were  comparable  to  SOC.  Most 
TEAEs were reported as mild or moderate in severity and were typical for this subject population. 
The most common AEs in the daptomycin treatment arm were diarrhoea (6 subjects, 10.9%), vomiting 
(6 subjects, 10.9%), and pyrexia (5 subjects, 9.1%). The most common AEs reported in the SOC arm 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/2925/2017  
Page 8/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were  diarrhoea  (5  subjects,  19.2%),  followed  by  osteomyelitis  (4  subjects,  15.4%),  pyrexia  (3 
subjects, 11.5%), and arthritis bacterial (3 subjects, 11.5%).  
It  is  stated  that  these  AEs  are  expected  events  when  antibiotic  treatments  are  administered  to 
paediatric subjects with S. aureus bacteraemia. There were no reported cases of drug hypersensitivity, 
eosinophilic  pneumonia,  or  bone  marrow  toxicity  among  the  adverse  reactions  reported  in  the 
daptomycin group. 
Overall,  the  incidence  of  SAEs  was  balanced  between  the  2  treatment  arms  (23.6%  for  daptomycin-
treated subjects and 26.9% for SOC-treated subjects), and there were no drug-related SAEs or deaths. 
The  rates  of  TEAEs  leading  to  treatment  discontinuation  were  uncommon,  and  rates  were  similar 
between the 2 treatment arms. Three (5.5%) daptomycin-treated subjects and 2 (7.7%) SOC-treated 
subjects discontinued study drug due to a TEAE.  
Review  of  the  SMQ  of  Peripheral  Neuropathy  and  Rhabdomyolysis/Myopathy  with  a  broad  or  narrow 
relationship showed there were 6 subjects overall who experienced TEAEs that fell into this category, 
including  5  subjects  (9.1%)  in  the  daptomycin  treatment  arm  and  1  subject  (3.8%)  in  the  SOC 
treatment arm; no events were considered SAEs and only one event (blood CPK increased) which led 
to  study  drug  discontinuation.  The  most  commonly  reported  SMQ  term  was  blood  CPK  increased 
reported in 4 (7.3%) of daptomycin-treated subjects. One TEAE was identified by  SMQ for peripheral 
neuropathy  (muscle  weakness).  The  observed  events  were  consistent  with  the  prior  treatment 
experience in adult patients with bacteraemia and do not indicate a difference in frequency, severity, 
or outcomes of skeletal muscle adverse reactions in paediatric patients. 
No new safety signals were apparent from the review of clinical laboratory results. 
The pattern of skeletal muscle toxicity observed in this study was consistent with previous experience 
in  adults.  Most  post  Baseline  elevations  of  blood  CPK  fell  between  1  and  2.5  ×  ULN  (13  [24.1%]  of 
subjects  in  the  daptomycin  group  and  5  [19.2%]  of  SOC  group).  Sustained  CPK  elevations  were 
reported  in  14.5%  of  the  subjects  receiving  daptomycin  versus  11.5%  receiving  SOC.  Blood  CPK 
increased was reported by the investigators as a TEAE in 4 (7.3%) and 0 subjects in the daptomycin 
and SOC groups, respectively. CPK elevations >2.5 times the ULN were uncommon in both treatment 
groups  (2  on  daptomycin  and  0  on  SOC).  One  patient  discontinued  daptomycin  therapy  due  to  blood 
CPK increased. 
No  safety  signals  were  apparent  from  review  of  vital  signs,  neurological  examinations,  or  physical 
examination findings. 
Summary of Efficacy Results 
The  efficacy  results  in  paediatric  subjects  aged  1  to  6  years,  7  to  11  years,  and  12  to  17  years 
receiving  daptomycin  at  doses  of  7,  9,  or  12  mg/kg  once  daily,  respectively,  in  the  treatment  of  S. 
aureus bacteraemia are as follows. 
Overall,  the  proportion  of  daptomycin-treated  subjects  with  a  favourable  clinical  response  at  the 
TOC/Safety  Visit  in  the  mMITT  population  was  88.2%  in  the  daptomycin  arm  and  77.3%  in  the  SOC 
arm. Similar efficacy was observed at the TOC/Safety Visit in daptomycin-treated subjects irrespective 
of  methicillin  susceptibility  in  the  mMITT  population  (88.6%  versus  85.7%  for  MSSA  versus  MRSA, 
respectively).  Among  the  40  subjects  with  complicated  bacteraemia  in  the  mMITT  population,  the 
clinical  success  rate  was  generally  similar  in  the  2  treatment  arms  at  the  TOC/Safety  Visit.  At  the 
TOC/Safety  visit,  88.5%  of  subjects  with  complicated  bacteraemia  in  the  daptomycin  group  had  a 
favourable clinical response. 
No  significant  difference  was  found  in  the  time  to  clearance  of  the  S.  aureus  bacteraemia  between 
daptomycin  and  SOC-treated  subjects  in  the  mMITT  population.  Median  times  to  clearance  were  2.5 
and 2.0 days in the daptomycin and SOC arms, respectively. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/2925/2017  
Page 9/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Microbiological  success  rates  at  the  TOC/Safety  Visit  for  the  mMITT  population  were  similar  in  the 
daptomycin (76.5%) and SOC (77.3%) treatment arms. The proportion of subjects with a favourable 
overall  outcome  at  the  TOC/Safety  Visit  in  the  mMITT  population  was  72.5%  in  the  daptomycin  arm 
and 59.1% in the SOC arm. 
Summary of Pharmacokinetics: 
The median Cmax and Ctrough values observed with the age-specific, weight-based doses ranged from 
73  to  95  ug/mL  and  4.3  to  5.6  ug/mL,  respectively.  The  median  peak  concentrations  were  95.40 
μg/mL  for  the  1  to  6  year  olds  who  received  12  mg/kg  of  daptomycin,  83.75  μg/mL  for  the  7  to  11 
year  olds  who  received  9  mg/kg  of  daptomycin,  and  73.05  μg/mL  for  the  12  to  17  year  olds  who 
received  7  mg/kg  of  daptomycin.  The  median  trough  concentrations  were  4.32  μg/mL  for  the  1  to  6 
year olds who received 12 mg/kg of daptomycin, 5.63 μg/mL for the 7 to 11 year olds who received 9 
mg/kg of daptomycin, and 4.93 μg/mL for the 12 to 17 year olds who received 7 mg/kg of daptomycin. 
The  median  Ctrough  appears  to  be  comparable  across  the  different  age  groups  with  age-specific, 
weight-based dosing regimens, and the median Cmax appears to be higher for the youngest age group 
(1 to 6 years of age) compared to older patients ranging from 7 to17 years of age. 
Results suggest that there was  no apparent correlation between peak daptomycin concentrations and 
the  categories  of  Peripheral  Neuropathy  or 
CPK  elevations  or  SMQ  adverse  events 
Rhabdomyolysis/Myopathy. 
in 
Conclusions 
The applicant concludes that Daptomycin was effective in the treatment of S. aureus bacteraemia. 
Rapporteurs comments:  
No new adverse events of concern were identified and the safety data from the paediatric patients in 
this  study  were  consistent  with  the  known  safety  profile  of  daptomycin.  The  efficacy  data  showed 
daptomycin to achieve outcomes similar to other SOC treatments while PK data were as expected.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/2925/2017  
Page 10/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.1.1.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The applicant has submitted a clinical overview and the complete CSR for this paediatric study.  
There  were  no  new  or  unexpected  safety  findings  from  the  82  paediatric  patients  enrolled  in  study, 
although the incidence of short bowel syndrome was higher in the daptomycin vs control group. There 
were a large number of SAEs in both groups, reflecting the serious condition of these patients. 
The number of patients in each age band were generally quite small, and considering the high number 
of major protocol violations, it is not clear how robust the results are.  
While the doses selected for each age band based on PK considerations appear appropriate, it is noted 
that  the  doses  are  different  from  those  recommended  for  paediatric  patients  with  CSSTIs.  This  will 
have  to  be  justified  and  taken  in  to  account  when  extending  the  paediatric  indications,  to  prevent 
confusion and under exposure.  
On  the  basis  of  the  results  of  this  paediatric  study,  there  is  currently  no  change  in  the  benefit-risk 
profile of Cubicin for the existing indications. The clinical safety and efficacy findings remain consistent 
with  the  information  in  the  Company  Core  Data  Sheet  and  prescribing  information  for  Cubicin. 
Therefore, no SmPC changes are needed based on the results of this study at present. 
2.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
Overall conclusion 
The benefit/risk balance remains positive in the approved indications at present.  
The following concerns need to be addressed. 
3.  List of Questions 
1.  The incidence of short bowel syndrome was higher in the daptomycin vs control group. Please 
provide details and provide further comment.  
2.  There were a high number of major protocol violations. Please comment on whether these had 
any impact on the safety/ efficacy conclusions.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/2925/2017  
Page 11/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Assessment of Responses 
QUESTION 1: The incidence of short bowel syndrome was higher in the daptomycin vs control group. 
Please provide details and provide further comment. 
COMPANY RESPONSE 1: 
Demographics 
In the DAP-PEDBAC-11-02 trial, the proportion of subjects (n=81 overall) in the Safety population with 
a prior medical history of short bowel syndrome was greater in the daptomycin group (14.5%; [8/55]) 
than  in  the  comparator  group  (3.8%  [1/26]).  The  majority  (7  of  9)  of  the  subjects  with  a  history  of 
short  bowel  syndrome  was  reported  in  the  younger  children  (1  to  6  years  of  age);  the  remaining  2 
cases were reported in subjects in older children (7 to 11 years). 
Safety 
No  subject  in  the  Safety  population  experienced  a  TEAE  of  short  bowel  syndrome  during  the  trial.  Of 
the  9  subjects  in  the  Safety  population  with  a  prior  medical  history  of  short  bowel  syndrome,  8 
(88.9%)  subjects  reported  at  least  1  Treatment-Emergent  Adverse  Event  (TEAE)  and  5  (55.6%) 
subjects experienced at least 1 serious AE (SAE). None of the TEAEs or SAEs experienced by these 9 
subjects  led  to  discontinuation  of  study  medication  and  none  were  considered  related  to  study 
medication  (by  the  investigator).  The  incidence  of  TEAEs  (88.9%)  and  SAEs  (55.6%)  in  these  9 
subjects  was  higher  than  those  in  the  overall  Safety  population  (TEAEs:  69.1%;  SAEs:  24.7%);  this 
observation  should  be  taken  in  context  of  the  limited  number  (n=9)  of  subjects  with  short  bowel 
syndrome  and  the  potential  contribution  of  the  underlying  short  bowel  syndrome  to  the  overall  AE 
profile of such subjects. 
Of  the  5  subjects  with  a  prior  history  of  short  bowel  syndrome  that  experienced  1  or  more  SAEs,  2 
subjects experienced SAEs that were deemed unrelated to study treatment but related to the existing 
condition of short bowel syndrome (Gram-negative bacteraemia in one subject and broken central line 
in another subject who required chronic central line for total parenteral nutrition (TPN) therapy). Such 
complications of short bowel syndrome are not unexpected given the altered gastrointestinal structure 
and  function  as  well  as  the  clinical  requirement  for  long-term  central  line  access  and  TPN 
administration. 
Efficacy 
In  general,  subjects  with  short  bowel  syndrome  are  at  increased  risk  for  compromised  absorption  of 
oral  drug  formulations.  However,  in  this  trial,  all  subjects  with  a  reported  medical  history  of  short 
bowel syndrome were treated with only intravenous (IV) study medication throughout the duration of 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/2925/2017  
Page 12/19 
 
 
 
 
 
the  trial  (Table  1).  Therefore,  it  is  unlikely  that  the  numerical  imbalance  in  the  proportion  of  short 
bowel syndrome reported in the daptomycin versus comparator arm had any clinically relevant impact 
on the efficacy evaluation of the study medication across treatment groups. The proportion of subjects 
in the daptomycin group with a history of short bowel syndrome who achieved clinical cure at the Test 
of Cure (TOC) visit (75%; 6 out of 8 subjects) was similar to that of the overall trial population (88% 
for  the  microbiological  modified  intent-to-treat  (mMITT)  population).  The  one  comparator-treated 
subject with short bowel syndrome also achieved clinical cure. 
Table  1.  Duration  of  Therapy,  Diagnosis  and  Clinical  Outcomes  in  Subjects  with  Reported  Medical 
History of Short Bowel Syndrome 
Duration of IV Therapy 
(days) 
Duration of Oral 
Therapy (days) 
Complicated/ 
Uncomplicated Bacteraemia 
Clinical Outcome 
Daptomycin-Treated 
16 
22* 
15 
17 
16 
15 
16 
20 
Comparator-Treated 
15 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
uncomplicated 
uncomplicated 
uncomplicated 
uncomplicated 
uncomplicated 
uncomplicated 
uncomplicated 
complicated 
uncomplicated 
Failure 
Cure 
Cure 
Cure 
Failure 
Cure 
Cure 
Cure 
Cure 
*Subject    received  8  days  of  IV  daptomycin,  was  discharged  and  given  15  days  of  IV 
cefazolin (only available in IV formulation) 350mg every 8 hours for a total of 22 days of IV 
therapy. In Listing 16.2.5.4 and Listing 16.2.5.5, the subject is noted as receiving oral therapy; 
however,  the  investigator  noted  the  cefazolin  as  an  ‘oral  switch’  as  the  subject  was  being 
removed from study medication to be sent home but was unable to be treated with oral therapy 
due to short bowel disease. 
Conclusions 
There is no evidence to suggest that the numerical imbalance in the proportion of subjects reporting a 
Medical  History  of  short  bowel  syndrome  in  the  daptomycin  group  as  compared  to  the  comparator 
group  impacted  the  overall  safety  or  efficacy  conclusions  of  the  DAP-PEDBAC-11-02  trial.  Moreover, 
short bowel syndrome was not reported as a TEAE during the trial. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/2925/2017  
Page 13/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rapporteur’s  comments:  The  short  bowel  condition  was  pre-existing  in  all  subjects  and  was  not  a 
TEAE. The safety and efficacy results in these subjects were similar to the rest. 
Response is accepted. Point resolved. 
QUESTION  2:  There  were  a  high  number  of  major  protocol  violations.  Please  comment  on  whether 
these had any impact on the safety/ efficacy conclusions. 
COMPANY RESPONSE 2: 
A review of the major protocol deviations (MPDs) reported during the conduct of the DAP-PEDBAC-11-
02 trial did not reveal any impact of MPDs on the overall safety or efficacy conclusions. 
Overview  of  Major  Protocol  Deviations  Reported  in  the  DAP-PEDBAC-11-02  Trial  Using  the  criteria  in 
the  Protocol  Deviation  Review  Process  (a  Cubist  Legacy  process  which  was  predefined  and  finalized 
before  database  lock  and  before  deviations  were  categorized  as  major  or  minor),  each  protocol 
deviation in the DAP-PEDBAC-11-02 trial was assessed as major (i.e., fulfilled at least 1 MPD criterion) 
or  minor;  a  subject  may  have  had  more  than  one  MPD  reported  during  the  trial.  Protocol  deviations 
were predefined and reported by sites as outlined by the Cubist Legacy processes (Protocol Deviation 
Entry  Guidance  and  Protocol  Deviation  Reporting  Guidelines).  The  Protocol  Deviation  Review  Process 
was primarily for Sponsor’s oversight and review of protocol deviations. 
Among  the  81  subjects  who  were  randomized  and  received  study  therapy  in  this  study  (i.e.,  55 
daptomycin-treated and 26 comparator-treated subjects included in the Safety population), a total of 
169  MPDs  were  reported  in  55  subjects.  This  includes  108  MPDs  among  38  daptomycin-treated 
subjects and 61 MPDs among 17 comparator-treated subjects. The total number of MPDs includes two 
MPDs  of  Visit  Window  category  that  occurred  in  two  subjects  in  the  comparator  group  and  were 
inadvertently  not  included  in  Table  10-3  in  the  CSR  due  to  an  editing  issue;  the  two  MPDs  are 
documented in the formal Listing 16.2.2.3) . The 169 MPDs were further categorized as follows: 
-Study  Assessment  (n=132),  which  included  protocol-specified  evaluations  either  not  conducted  or 
conducted  with  errors  and  included  assessments  of  chemistry  and/or  haematology  laboratory 
parameters,  neurological  exam,  motor  skills  questionnaire,  vital  signs,  physical  exam,  and/or 
microbiologic  susceptibility.  Based  on  the  Protocol  Deviation  Review  Process,  any  missing  protocol-
specified  assessments,  including  those  for  a  single  laboratory  test  on  a  single  trial  visit,  were 
categorized as a MPD. 
-  Study  Medication  (n=16),  which  involved  treatment  duration  (e.g.,  extending  beyond  the  protocol 
defined duration) or compliance (e.g., oral medication not taken as prescribed). 
- Inclusion Criteria Violated (n=2), which involved Inclusion Criterion #7 (full disease criteria were not 
met). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/2925/2017  
Page 14/19 
 
 
 
 
 
- Visit Window (n=2), which involved collection of samples outside the pre-specified visit window. 
- Withdrawal (n=1), for which one subject in the comparator group was not properly withdrawn from 
the trial after not meeting Inclusion Criterion #7. 
- Other (n=16), which included issues involving delays in SAE reporting, consent, or unblinding of the 
blinded Evaluator. 
Following the categorization of each MPD into one of the above categories, there were no further sub-
categorizations  of  MPDs  performed  on  a  programmatic  basis.  For  example,  the  MPDs  categorized  as 
Study  Assessments  were  not  sub-categorized  in  a  systematic  manner  with  respect  to  the  type  and 
timing of the affected protocol-specified assessments. Of the 55 subjects in the Safety Population that 
had  one  or  more  MPDs,  48  were  included  in  the  Microbiologic  Modified  Intent-to-Treat  (mMITT) 
population, and 31 in the Clinically Evaluable (CE) population. The distribution of subjects with one or 
more MPDs by treatment group in the Safety population and the categories of MPD are shown in Table 
2. 
Table 2. Summary of Subjects (Safety Population) with Major Protocol Deviations 
MPDs and Safety Assessments in the Trial 
In  the  DAP-PEDBAC-11-02  trial,  all  subjects  that  received  any  amount  of  study  medication  were 
included  in  the  Safety  Population  and  the  corresponding  safety  data  were  used  for  safety  analysis, 
regardless  of  whether  MPDs  were  reported  for  such  subjects.  Of  the  81  subjects  in  the  Safety 
Population, 55 (67.9%) subjects reported at least one MPD (Table 2). A total of 38 (69.0%) out of the 
55  daptomycin-treated  subjects  and  17  (65.4%)  of  the  26  comparator-treated  subjects  experienced 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/2925/2017  
Page 15/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
one  or  more  MPDs.  The  most  commonly  reported  category  of  MPDs  (132  out  of  169  events;  78.1%) 
was  Study  Assessments  and  was  reported  in  47  out  of  81  (58.0%)  subjects  in  the  Safety  Population 
(daptomycin  group:  34  out  of  55  (61.8%)  subjects;  comparator  group:  13  out  of  26  (50.0%) 
subjects). 
Overall, the daptomycin- and comparator-treated groups had similar distribution of MPDs by category 
and proportion of subjects with one or more MPDs (by all categories and Study Assessment category). 
These data are in accord with the safety conclusions of the trial (CSR Section 12.6), in which the safety 
profile  of  the  daptomycin  group  was  similar  to  that  of  the  comparator  group.  Given  the  type  of 
observations  and  the  distribution  of  these  observations  across  the  2  treatment  groups,  the  MPDs 
reported  in  this  trial  were  unlikely  to  impact  the  overall  safety  conclusion  of  the  trial  or  the  overall 
safety outcomes in an individual subject. 
MPD and Efficacy Assessments in the Trial 
Efficacy populations 
In the DAP-PEDBAC-11-02 trial, the efficacy populations were programmatically defined as follows: 
Modified Intent-to-Treat (MITT) Population: The MITT population was composed of all randomized and 
treated subjects with at least one dose who met the clinical criteria for the study infection at Baseline 
(positive blood culture for S. aureus or CoNS (coagulase-negative Staphylococci) in high-risk patients 
or probable bacteraemia [Gram-positive cocci on Gram stain at Baseline]). 
Microbiological  Modified  Intent-to-Treat  (mMITT)  Population:  The  mMITT  population  consisted  of  all 
MITT subjects who had proven S. aureus bacteraemia at Baseline. 
Clinically  Evaluable  (CE)  Population:  Subpopulation  of  the  mMITT  subjects  who  met  specific  criteria 
related to the required assessments: Received the correct drug, as randomized; Received appropriate 
duration  of  treatment  (minimum  and  maximum  treatment  durations  are  outlined  in  the  Clinical 
Evaluability Review Plan); Had the necessary clinical and microbiological efficacy evaluations performed 
at the TOC/Safety Visit and were not evaluated as “non-evaluable”; Did not receive effective systemic 
on-study antibiotics at Baseline (>72 hours administered duration anytime during the 96 hours prior to 
the first dose); Did not receive more than one dose of effective systemic non-study antibiotics from the 
first dose of study drug to the TOC/Safety Visit. 
As described above, the sequentially selective assignment of subjects from the MITT to mMITT and CE 
populations  was  based  on  progressively  more  rigorous  set  of  factors  that  would  potentially  affect 
efficacy (e.g., mMITT population = MITT subjects with proven S. aureus bacteraemia at Baseline) and 
not  based  on  safety  assessments.  The  efficacy  of  study  medications  was  primarily  assessed  in  the 
mMITT population. Efficacy was also assessed in the CE population, which was limited to subjects that 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/2925/2017  
Page 16/19 
 
 
 
 
 
were  compliant  with  pre-specified  protocol  requirements  with  the  potential  to  impact  the  efficacy 
outcome.  Clinical  success  rates  in  the  CE  population  (daptomycin:  90.0%;  comparator:  75.0%)  were 
comparable or higher than those for the mMITT population (daptomycin: 88.2%; comparator: 77.3%) 
at the Test of Cure (TOC)/safety visit. 
Of the 55 subjects with MPDs, 48 were included in the mMITT population and 31 were included in the 
CE population. Additional details are provided below.  
MPDs in the mMITT population 
Of the 73 subjects in the mMITT Population, 48 (65.8%) subjects reported at least one MPD (Table 3). 
Table 3. Summary of Subjects (mMITT Population) with Major Protocol Deviations 
The overall distribution of MPDs by categories was similar between the two treatment groups. A total of 
34 (66.7%) out of the 51 daptomycin-treated subjects and 14 (63.6%) of the 22 comparator-treated 
subjects experienced one or more MPDs. The most  commonly reported category of MPDs (117 out of 
148 events; 79.1%) was Study Assessments and was reported in 41 out of 73 (56.2%) subjects in the 
mMITT Population (daptomycin group: 31 out of 51 (60.8%) subjects; comparator group: 10 out of 22 
(45.6%)  subjects).  These  observations  suggest  that  the  MPDs  noted  among  subjects  in  the  two 
treatment  groups  of  the  mMITT  population  are  similar  with  respect  to  the  distribution  of  MPD 
categories  and  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  one  or  more  MPDs  (overall  and  by  Study  Assessment 
category).  Given  that  the  primary  efficacy  results  that  demonstrate  slightly  higher  cure  rates  at  TOC 
visits  for  the  daptomycin  group  as  compared  to  the  comparator  group  in  the  mMITT  population,  it  is 
unlikely  that  the  MPDs  had  any  clinically  relevant  effect  on  the  efficacy  assessments  in  this 
subpopulation. 
To further examine the potential effect of MPDs on the efficacy assessments for the mMITT population, 
a post-hoc analysis on the clinical success rates for the 48 mMITT subjects with MPDs relative to those 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/2925/2017  
Page 17/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for the 25 mMITT subjects without MPDs by treatment group was performed. In the daptomycin group, 
the clinical success rates were 82.4% (28/34) and 100.0% (17/17) for subjects with MPDs and without 
MPDs,  respectively.  In  the  comparator  group,  the  clinical  success  rates  were  78.6%  (11/14)  and 
75.0% (6/8) for subjects with MPDs and without MPDs, respectively. 
For  each  of  the  two  treatment  groups  in  the  mMITT  population,  there  was  no  appreciable  difference 
between  the  clinical  success  rates  of  the  subgroups  with  and  without  MPDs.  Moreover,  the  clinical 
success  rates  of  MPD-based  subgroups  were  similar  to  the  overall  efficacy  rate  of  the  corresponding 
treatment group. These results demonstrate that MPDs did not affect the efficacy results in the mMITT 
population. 
MPDs in the CE population 
To  further  assess  the  potential  effects  of  MPDs  on  efficacy  results  of  the  trial,  a  similar  analysis  was 
performed  for  the  CE  population,  the  most  selective  efficacy  population  that  was  programmatically 
defined (Table 4). Of the 52 subjects in the CE Population, 31 (59.6%) subjects reported at least one 
MPD (Table 4).  
Table 4. Summary of Subjects (CE Population) with Major Protocol Deviations 
The  proportion  of  subjects  with  at  least  one  MPD  across  the  two  treatment  groups  was  numerically 
higher  in  the  daptomycin  group  (27  out  of  40;  67.5%)  than  the  comparator  group  (4  out  of  12; 
33.3%).  The  most  commonly  reported  category  of  MPDs  (66  out  of  85  events;  77.6%)  was  Study 
Assessments  and  was  reported  in  26  out  of  52  (50.0%)  subjects  in  the  CE  Population  (daptomycin 
group:  24 out  of  40  (60.0%)  subjects;  comparator group:  2  out of  12  (16.7%)  subjects).  Within  the 
CE  population,  the  proportion  of  subjects  in  the  daptomycin  group  with  one  or  more  MPDs  (all 
categories and Study Assessments category) was higher than in the comparator group. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/2925/2017  
Page 18/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The numerical imbalance of MPDs across treatment groups in the CE population should be taken in the 
context  of:  (1)  the  rigorous  definition  of  MPDs,  i.e.,  any  missing  protocol-specified  assessments, 
including  those  for  a  single  laboratory  test on  a  single  trial  visit,  were  categorized  as  a  MPD;  (2)  the 
programmatic definition of the CE population as a subset of the mMITT population that was limited to 
subjects that were compliant with pre-specified protocol requirements with the potential to impact the 
efficacy outcome; and (3) the efficacy assessment of the CE population, which was comparable to that 
of  the  mMITT  population  (which  had  a  more  balanced  distribution  of  MPDs  across  treatment  groups 
than the CE population). Taken together, these observations suggest that the potential effect of Study 
Assessment MPDs on the efficacy assessments of the CE population was unlikely to be substantial. 
To further examine the potential effect of MPDs on efficacy assessments for the CE population, a post-
hoc analysis on the clinical success rates for the 31 CE subjects with MPDs relative to those for the 21 
CE  subjects  without  MPDs  by  treatment  group  was  performed.  In  the  daptomycin  group,  the  clinical 
success  rates  were  85.2%  (23/27)  and  100.0%  (13/13)  for  subjects  with  MPDs  and  without  MPDs, 
respectively.  In  the  comparator  group,  the  clinical  success  rates  were  75.0%  (3/4)  and  75.0%  (6/8) 
for subjects with MPDs and without MPDs, respectively. 
For  each  of  the  two  treatment  groups  in  the  CE  population,  there  was  no  appreciable  difference 
between  the  clinical  success  rates  of  the  subgroups  with  and  without  MPDs.  Furthermore,  the  clinical 
success  rates  of  MPD-based  subgroups  were  similar  to  the  overall  efficacy  rate  of  the  corresponding 
treatment group. As was the case in the mMITT population, these results demonstrate that MPDs did 
not affect the efficacy results in the CE population. 
Rapporteur’s comments: The applicant has reviewed the causes of the major protocol deviations on the 
safety  and  efficacy  of  daptomycin  and  it  is  concluded  that  there  was  no  evidence  of  MPDs  impacting 
safety and efficacy results in the study subjects. 
Response is accepted. Point resolved. 
5.  Rapporteur’s updated overall conclusion and 
recommendation 
The benefit/risk balance remains positive in the approved indications at present.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/2925/2017  
Page 19/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
