1. 
Introduction 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
The majority of skin and soft tissues infections (SSTIs) are caused by usually Staphylococcus aureus 
or  β-haemolytic  streptococci.  SSTIs  are  considered  complicated  when  they  involve  deeper  skin 
structures,  such  as  fascia  or  muscle  layers,  require  significant  surgical  intervention  or  arise  in  the 
presence of significant co-morbidity. 
The  inexorable  increase  in  the  prevalence  of  bacterial  resistance  since  the  1940s  now  threatens  the 
utility of some antibiotics for treating certain species. Infections due to Gram-positive bacterial species 
are  now  the  foremost  problems  in  many  specialised  units  and  institutions.  Methicillin-resistant  S. 
aureus (MRSA), glycopeptide-insusceptible S. aureus (GISA) and glycopeptide-resistant enterococci 
(VRE  or  GRE),  particularly  E.  faecium,  are  of  particular  concern.  For  example,  the  European 
Antimicrobial Resistance Surveillance System (EARSS) study of 2002 reported that 22% of S. aureus 
isolates  were  methicillin-resistant  overall,  with  the  highest  rates  recorded  in  participating  centres  in 
Greece  (44%),  Ireland  (42%),  Malta  (43%)  and  the  UK  (44%).  The  highest  rates  of  vancomycin-
resistant  E.  faecium  were  reported  from  Greece  (19%),  Italy  (21%)  and  Croatia  (22%).  Bulgaria, 
Greece  and  Hungary  reported  the  highest  prevalence  of  high-level  aminoglycoside-resistant  E. 
faecalis.  Other  gram-positive  species,  such  as  coagulase-negative  staphylococci  and  Corynebacteria 
spp., have also caused problems due to acquisition of multiple resistance determinants. 
Therefore, there is a need for additional agents that might be clinically active against these difficult to 
treat pathogens to the existing antibiotic armamentarium. 
The  present  application  for  marketing  authorisation  of  CUBICIN  (350  or  500  mg  powder  for 
concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion)  is  made  under  Article  8.3  (i)  and  concerns  a  new  active 
substance, daptomycin.  
Daptomycin is a novel cyclic lipopeptide derived from a natural product of Streptomyces roseosporus.  
The approved indication at the recommended dose of 4 mg/kg administered as a single daily dose for 
7-14 days or until the infection is resolved is: CUBICIN is indicated for the treatment of complicated 
skin and soft-tissue infections in adults (see sections 4.4 and 5.1 of the Summary of Product 
Characteristics). 
Daptomycin is active against Gram-positive bacteria only (see section 5.1 of the Summary of Product 
Characteristics).  In mixed infections where Gram-negative and/or certain types of anaerobic bacteria 
are suspected, CUBICIN should be co-administered with appropriate antibacterial agent(s). 
2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
CUBICIN  is  formulated  as  a  single  use  powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  containing 
350 mg or 500 mg of daptomycin, as active substance. Following reconstitution with 9 mg/ml (0.9%) 
sodium chloride for injection or water for injections (7 ml for the 350 mg strength and 10 ml for the 
500 mg strength) to yield to a 50 mg/ml solution, the product is administered by intravenous infusion 
after dilution in sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%).  
The other ingredients include sodium hydroxide. 
It is presented in 10 ml glass vials closed with a rubber stopper, an aluminium seal and a plastic flip-
off cap.  
1/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Drug Substance  
Daptomycin  is  a  novel  macrocyclic  peptide,  with  a  decanoyl  side  chain  linked  to  the  N-terminus 
Tryptophan,  produced  by  fermentation  of  Streptomyces  roseosporus.It  was  selected  based  on  a 
superior  relative  therapeutic  index  in  mice  from  a  6-lipopeptide  antibiotic  complex  in  which  each 
peptide  has  the  same  inactive  13  amino  acid  nucleus  with  various  fatty  acid  acyl  groups  on  the  N-
terminus.  Detailed  information  on  quality/control  of  materials  used  in  the  fermentation  process  and 
subsequent purification steps, has been provided by the way of an active substance master file. 
The frozen active substance yields a clear, dark yellow to light brown solution upon thawing. X-ray 
diffraction  studies  indicated  that  daptomycin  powder  is  amorphous.  It  is  highly  soluble  in  water.. 
Stress  stability  studies  showed  that  it  degradates  when  exposed  to  direct  light,  heat,  oxygen  and  to 
extreme pHs in solution.  
• 
Manufacture 
Daptomycin  is  produced  by  2  different  manufacturers.  The  manufacturing  process  includes  the 
following  steps:  fermentation  (inoculum  preparation,  fermentation  and  harvest),  purification  by 
chromatography  and  ultrafiltration,  and  filling  in  low-density  polyethylene  (LDPE)  bioprocess 
container.  Critical  process  parameters  have  been  identified  and  respective  process  ranges  and/or  set 
points have been satisfactorily established. 
Characterisation  of  impurities  has  been  conducted  based  on  detailed  evaluation  of  daptomycin 
impurity  profile.  The  main  impurities  include  3  fermentation  process  related  impurities  and  three 
degradation  products  namely  anhydro-daptomycin,  ß-aspartyl  isomer  and  lactone  hydrolysis  product 
of daptomycin. The only solvent used during synthesis is a class 3 solvent.  
During development, the active substance was obtained from 3 different manufacturers. Changes were 
made to the purification steps and to the final presentation of daptomycin (frozen concentrate instead 
of  lyophilised  powder).  Comparative  analytical  results  demonstrate  that  daptomycin  batches  used  in 
pre-clinical  and  clinical  studies  produced  according  to  the  current  and  the  earlier  processes  are 
physicochemically equivalent.  
• 
Specification 
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  identity  (UV  and  FTIR),  assay 
(HPLC), impurity content (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), pH, bacterial endotoxins, microbial limits, 
specific rotation, heavy metals and residue on ignition.  
The impurity limits have been satisfactorily justified based on toxicology studies. 
2/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Batch analysis data provided for 5 consecutive commercial batches manufactured at one site and for 3 
consecutive  batches  manufactured  at  the  other  site  confirm  satisfactory  compliance  and  uniformity 
with the proposed specifications. 
• 
Stability 
Stability data have been provided for 3 batches manufactured by both manufacturers. 6-month data are 
available  under  accelerated  conditions  (5ºC±3ºC  –  scale  down  commercial  packaging)  and  up  to  
2-year  data  are  available  under  long-term  conditions  (-20ºC±5ºC  –  scale  down  commercial 
packaging). Samples were tested for appearance, assay, pH, and impurities.  
Data in support of the stability of the active substance when raised briefly to higher temperatures, as 
might be experienced during transit, were also satisfactory. Stress testing included photostability, pH 
stability  profile,  thermal  degradation  and  oxidative  degradation.  2  batches  have  been  satisfactory 
studied for potential extractables and leachables following storage at -20ºC for up to 20 months. 
The proposed retest period is supported by the presented data when daptomycin is stored in a LDPE 
bioprocess container stored in a sealed plastic bag placed in a foil outer bag.  
Drug Product  
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  degradation  profile  of  daptomycin  was  the  main  parameter  to  take  into  account  during  the 
pharmaceutical development (see active substance). 
The target in-process pH range (4.5-5.0) was selected based on the sensitivity of the active to extreme 
pHs. Given the high solubility of the active, the only excipients considered necessary were the vehicle, 
sodium hydroxide to achieve the target pH and nitrogen as process aid during lyophilisation. Sodium 
citrate and mannitol used as bulking agents for the formulation of early batches became unnecessary as 
the  dose  for  clinical  use  increased.  All  the  excipients  are  of  PhEur  quality.  Regarding the TSE risk, 
CUBICIN does not contain any component of ruminant origin. 
The 5% daptomycin overfill is suitable to allow the label claim volume to be withdrawn from the vial 
after reconstitution.  
The container closure system, consisting of a type I glass vial closed by a rubber stopper capped with 
an aluminium seal and a flip-off plastic cap, meet the PhEur requirements. Integrity of the closure to 
microbiological and thermal challenges has been demonstrated. 
The  reconstituted  and  diluted  finished  product  has  been  shown  to  be  physically  and  chemically 
compatible  with  sodium  chloride  for  injection  9  mg/ml  (0.9%), water for injections used as diluents 
and with some of the commonly intravenously administered medications (see section 6.6 of the SPC). 
Possible  sorption  of  daptomycin  on  tubes  and  bags  used  during  intravenous  infusion  has  been 
satisfactorily investigated.  
In order to minimise potential daptomycin degradation during the manufacturing process, refrigerating 
conditions are used, lyophilisation is performed under nitrogen atmosphere and a prefiltration step was 
introduced prior to pooling of the bulk substance in order to reduce the processing time during sterile 
filtration  process.  The  choice  of  sterilisation  by  filtration  is  justified  by  the  peptidic  nature  of 
daptomycin and its sensitivity to heat.  
Slightly  different  formulations  (including  sodium  citrate  or  mannitol  used  as  bulking  agents)  and 
diluents  have  been  used  in  early  clinical  studies.  This  is  not  expected  to  have  any  impact  on  the 
product performance based on the type of molecule and the mode of administration.  
3/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
CUBICIN  is  produced  at  two  different  sites.  The  method  of  manufacture  involves  the  following 
operations  designed  to  minimize  any  potential  degradation  of  the  active  (see  pharmaceutical 
development):  thawing  of  the  active  substance,  pre-filtration,  pooling,  pH  and  concentration 
adjustment, sterile filtration, filling, lyophilisation and packaging.  
Satisfactory  operating  parameters  and  in-process  controls  have  been  defined  at  each  stage  of 
manufacture. Holding times and conditions for the pooled active substance before dilution and for the 
formulated product before filling have been adequately justified based on validation data. 
Satisfactory validation data have been provided on production scale batches for the relevant strengths 
at both manufacturing sites. 
• 
Product Specification 
The  finished  product  specification  include  tests  for  appearance,  identification  (UV  and  FTIR),  pH, 
assay (HPLC), powder fill weight, degradation products, uniformity of content (PhEur), water content 
(PhEur), bacterial endotoxins (PhEur), particulate contamination (PhEur), sterility (PhEur), container 
closure integrity and reconstitution time. 
The degradation products limits have been satisfactorily justified based on toxicology studies. 
Satisfactory batch analysis data have been provided for full-scale batches manufactured at both sites.  
• 
- 
Stability of the Product 
Before reconstitution and dilution 
Stability data are presented for 3 batches of each strength (250 mg/vial and 500 mg/vial). 3-year data 
under  long  term  conditions  (5ºC  -  proposed  packaging)  and  under  accelerated  conditions 
(25ºC/60%RH - proposed packaging) have been provided.  
The  parameters  tested  included  appearance,  assay,  related  substances,  pH  of  reconstituted  solution, 
water content, particulate contamination and container closure integrity. Photostability investigated in 
line  with  ICH  recommendations  showed  that  the  product  is  not  sensitive  to  light  when  stored  in  its 
original packaging.  
- 
After reconstitution 
Chemical and physical in-use stability of finished product has been examined after reconstitution with 
9  mg/ml  (0.9%)  sodium  chloride  for  injection  or  water  for  injections.  The  reconstitution  time  is 
typically 15 minutes, which is rather long. This is specified in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
-  After reconstitution and dilution 
Chemical  and  physical  in-use  stability  of  the  reconstituted  finished  product  diluted  in  normal  saline 
infusion bags has been studied. 
The results presented support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions defined in the Summary of 
Product Characteristics for the finished product before reconstitution and dilution, after reconstitution, 
and after reconstitution and dilution. 
4/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The development of daptomycin began in the early 1980s but was terminated due to observations of 
adverse  skeletal  muscle  effects  in  animals,  and in a low number of subjects, during Phase 1 clinical 
trials.  In  the  late  90’s  Cubist  licensed  daptomycin  from  Lilly  in  1997,  the  non-clinical  and  clinical 
development of daptomycin resumed.  
The development programme spans some 20 years, some studies were conducted prior to the issuance 
of  CHMP/ICH  guidelines.  Nonetheless,  the  non-clinical  studies  were  appropriately  and  adequately 
conducted for the state of the science of the day. Although the bulk of the toxicological assessment of 
daptomycin was performed in rats and dogs, primates were used in a single and a repeat dose study. 
All the pivotal in vivo toxicity studies (with the exception of genotoxicity) were conducted using the iv 
route  of  administration,  the  intended  route  of  clinical  administration.  All  of  the  pivotal  repeat  dose 
toxicity studies were conducted in compliance with Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) regulations. The 
lack  of  GLP  compliance  for  selected  acute  toxicity  and  investigative  studies  as  well  as  some 
toxicokinetic studies is not considered to have invalidated them. 
Pharmacology 
The  primary  pharmacology  studies  focused  on  in  vitro  microbiological  profiling,  animal  models  of 
infection,  and  pharmacodynamic  studies  correlating  efficacy  with  pharmacokinetic  parameters. 
Secondary and safety pharmacology studies were also performed.  
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics  
Daptomycin  is  a  novel  cyclic  lipopeptide  antibiotic  derived  from  the  fermentation  of  a  strain  of 
Streptomyces roseosporus. 
Daptomycin  inserts  directly  into  the  cytoplasmic  membrane  of  Gram-positive  cells  (aerobes  and 
anaerobes).  This  action  is  calcium-dependent  and  results  in  a  rapid  depolarisation  of  the  membrane, 
thus giving rise to the efflux of potassium ions. Bacterial DNA, RNA and protein synthesis is rapidly 
stopped  with  subsequent  cell  death  that  does  not  depend  upon  lysis.  The  antibacterial  activity  of 
daptomycin  requires  the  presence  of  free  calcium.  The  exact  mechanism  of  action  of  daptomycin 
remains to be determined. 
Due  to  its  different  mechanism  of  action,  the  antibacterial  activity  of  daptomycin  is  not  affected  by 
mechanisms that confer specific resistance to beta-lactam agents (including methicillin), glycopeptides 
(such  as  vancomycin),  quinupristin/dalfopristin,  linezolid  or  other  agents  potentially  useful  against 
Gram-positive bacterial species. 
In  both  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies,  the  action  of  daptomycin  was  bactericidal  against  a  number  of 
clinically  important  antibiotic-resistant  Gram-positive  bacteria  including  Staphylococcus  spp. 
(including  both  methicillin-  and  vancomycin-resistant  isolates),  Enterococcus  spp.  (including 
vancomycin-resistant isolates), and Streptococcus spp. (including penicillin-resistant isolates). 
Further information can be found in the clinical part under the pharmacodynamics section. 
Daptomycin had poor in vitro activity against both aerobic and anaerobic Gram-negative organisms. 
• 
Safety pharmacology 
Safety  pharmacology  was  primarily  investigated  in  rodents,  dogs,  and  in  vitro  models.  No  adverse 
effects on the cardiovascular, respiratory, renal, gastrointestinal or immune systems were observed in 
vivo at clinically relevant doses. 
5/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Daptomycin’s  effects  on  the  central  nervous  system  as  well  as  the  neuromuscular  system  were 
assessed in a series of in vivo and in vitro studies. Effects on the nervous and/or muscular system were 
evident  at  high  dose  iv  levels  in  rodents  (≥  50  mg/kg).  Depressive  clinical  signs  included  abnormal 
gait and/or posture, and decreased motor activity and motor coordination.  
Marked  effects  on  the  central  nervous  system  in  animals  were  observed  only  at  iv  dose  levels  of 
≥ 150 mg/kg.  At  doses  ≥  200  mg/kg  in  mice,  tremors  and  clonic  convulsions  were  observed;  with 
death occurring at ≥ 1000 mg/kg. No corresponding effects were observed in rats at 150 mg/kg. 
No  effect  on  EEG  or  neuromuscular  conduction  was  noted  in  dogs  after  acute  administration  of 
daptomycin at iv dose levels of 50 and 30 mg/kg, respectively.  
Daptomycin  appears  to  have  no  clinically  relevant  pharmacological  activity  in  cardiac  or  smooth 
muscle. In vitro, at high concentrations (up to 25-fold peak plasma concentration observed in patients 
at  intended  clinical  dose  of  4  mg/kg/day),  no  effects  were  seen  in  cardiac  (atria)  or  smooth  muscle 
preparations (ileum, jejunum, or aorta). Effects were limited to selective antagonism of rat uterus and 
vas  deferens  smooth  muscle  preparations.  However,  the  concentration  at  which  these  effects  were 
observed  (160 µg/ml  free  drug)  is  30-fold  greater  than  the  maximal  concentration  of  free  drug  in 
patients at the intended clinical dose of 4 mg/kg/day. 
There was no potential for prolongation of QT interval based on exposure of the hERG channel up to 
100 times the clinical plasma concentrations. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Use  of  daptomycin  in  combination  therapy  was  investigated  in  a  number  of  animal  models  of 
infection.  These  studies  showed  synergistic  increases  in  efficacy  with  amikacin,  tobramycin, 
gentamicin and rifampicin. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Single  and  multiple  dose  pharmacokinetics  studies  were  conducted  in  mice,  rats,  beagle  dogs,  and 
rhesus monkeys using both unlabelled and radiolabelled daptomycin. As the intended clinical route is 
intravenous, the majority of the studies used this route of administration. Toxicokinetic studies were 
included in the 6-month rat study (Day 1 only) and in all repeat-dose studies in dogs (up to 6-months) 
and in monkeys (1-month).  
Published 
information  on 
pharmacokinetics in other species, such as rabbits and guinea pigs, and information on serum protein 
binding. Methods of analysis were adequate. 
literature  on  daptomycin  provided  supportive  data,  as  well  as 
• 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
Overall, the pharmacokinetic characteristics were generally comparable across the 4 species tested.  
Studies  in  rats  showed  that  daptomycin  was  poorly  absorbed  orally  and  exhibited  slow  passage 
through the gastrointestinal tract with > 90% excreted in the faeces. 
Limited  data  indicated  a  relatively  high  bioavailability  after  s.c.  or  i.p.  administration.  Daptomycin 
plasma  profile  following  iv  injection  was  consistent  with  a  2-compartement  model  with  a  rapid 
distribution phase and slower elimination phase. 
Daptomycin  exhibited  linear  kinetics  following  intravenous  injection  across  a  dose  range  of  1  to 
50 mg/kg in the rat, 1 to 200 mg/kg in the dog, and 1 to 25 mg/kg in the monkey.  
For all species, plasma clearance, volume of distribution, and terminal half-life were dose-independent 
over  the  linear  range.  Within  the  linear  range,  terminal  half  life  of  daptomycin  was  1  –  3  hours  in 
rodents  and  2  –  4  hours  in  non-rodents.  The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  daptomycin  was  similar 
between strain and gender and was not altered upon repeated daily administration for up to 6 months.  
6/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Distribution 
In  the  rat,  the  only  species  in  which  tissue  distribution  was  studied,  daptomycin  distributes  rapidly 
from the plasma to the tissues with a distribution phase half-life (t½ α) of approximately 7 minutes. 
The  volume  of  distribution  was  essentially  the  same  (approximately  60  to  160  ml/kg)  in  mice,  rats, 
dogs,  monkeys  and  humans,  and  clearance  scales  to  body  size.  Daptomycin  appears  to  distribute 
preferentially to the kidneys, reflecting the vascularisation of the tissue as well as renal concentration 
of the drug during excretion. Daptomycin is shown cross the placenta in pregnant rats and to enter the 
CNS, but data suggest that no extensive penetration across the blood-brain or placental barriers appear 
to occur. .  
In general, the half-life in tissues was slightly greater than that in plasma and tissue levels were higher 
after repeated dosing than after a single dose. No accumulation was observed in plasma upon repeated 
administration in rats, dogs, or monkeys.  
There is no data on the excretion of daptomycin into milk. Therefore, 
breastfeeding  should  be  discontinued  during  treatment  as  indicated  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics. 
Published data indicated that the extent of protein binding was the same in mice, rabbits and humans 
(approximately  90%).  Although  direct  measurements  were  lacking  in  rats,  dogs  and  monkeys, 
pharmacokinetic data suggested that the extent of protein binding was consistent among species.  
• 
Metabolism (in vitro/in vivo) 
In  vivo  metabolism  studies  performed  in  mice,  rats,  dogs  and  monkeys  showed  that  daptomycin 
exhibited  limited  metabolism.  Although  the  studies  were  not  up  to  the  current  standard, 
pharmacokinetics  data  showed  that  daptomycin  was  primarily  eliminated  in  animals  as  intact  in  the 
urine confirming that it undergoes little or no systemic metabolism. PK studies indicated that it did not 
appear to inhibit or induce any of the key cytochrome P450 isoenzymes. Therefore, the potential for 
metabolic  drug-drug  interactions  should  be  limited  and  the  potential  for  pharmacokinetic  drug 
interactions with daptomycin is probably low. 
• 
Excretion 
Daptomycin was excreted primarily via the kidney largely as unchanged. In mice, rats, dogs, monkeys 
most  of  the  compound  (≥  70 %)  was  recovered  in  the  urinary  within  48  hours  post-dose.  Faecal 
excretion  accounted  for  approximately  3  to  10  %  of  the  administered  radioactivity  in  these  species. 
This  is  comparable  to  the  human  data.  In  rats  less  than  2  %  of  the  administered  radioactivity  was 
recovered in the expired air. 
A study in juvenile dogs showed that total systemic clearance appears to be faster in juvenile dogs as 
compared to adults, resulting in shorter terminal half-life and lower AUC0-24, at the same dose level. 
In  rats  with  renal  impairment,  the  systemic  clearance  was  reduced  by  ~70  %  compared  to  that  of 
normal rats. This resulted in a ~1.5 to 2-fold increase in peak plasma concentration (Tmax),  a 2 to 3-
fold increase in the AUC, and increased half-life. Volume of distribution was decreased by 53 %.  
7/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicology 
• 
Single dose toxicity 
After single dose iv bolus injection of daptomycin, clinical signs suggestive of toxicity to the skeletal 
muscle and/or nervous systems (CNS and peripheral nerves) were evident in all 4 species (mouse, rat, 
dog  and  monkey)  and  were  accompanied  by  decreases  in  body  weight  and/or  body  weight  gain  in 
rodents and dogs. Mortality occurred across animal species at dose levels 25 to >100 fold higher than 
the  clinical  dose  of  4  mg/kg.  In  mice,  there  were  no  significant  toxicity  signs  after  single  oral 
administration  up  to  2000  mg/kg.  Sc  administration  of  daptomycin  to  rats  was  less  toxic  than  iv 
injection.  The  peak  plasma  levels  of  daptomycin  in  animals  at  the  minimal  lethal  dose  ranged  from 
approximately  30  to  100  times  that  at  the  intended  clinical  dose.  Primates  appeared  to  be  the  most 
sensitive animal species.  
• 
Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The repeat dose toxicity has been studied in rats and dogs up to 6 months, and monkeys up to 1 month. 
Daptomycin  was  administered  by  bolus  iv  injection  in  all  studies,  with  one  study  also  investigating 
administration via 30 minute iv infusion. For most studies, daptomycin was administered once daily, 
except  for  select  investigative  studies  in  which  it  was  also  administered  every  8  hours.  The  main 
finding are displayed in Table 1. 
Table 1:  
Species/strain 
Study 
duration 
1 month 
Rat Fischer 
1 month 
Rat Fischer 
3 months 
Rat Fischer 
3 months 
Rat Fischer 
6 months 
Rat Fischer 
2 weeks 
Dog Beagle 
1 month 
Dog Beagle 
Dog Beagle 
6 months 
Monkey Rhesus  1 month 
Dose range  
(mg/kg/day) 
25-150 
10-20 
1-20 
5-80 
2-50 
25-100 
10-75 
2-40 
1-10 
Signs of toxicity identified 
Skeletal myopathy, renal effects, peripheral neuropathy (high dose) 
Skeletal myopathy, renal effects. 
Skeletal myopathy. 
Skeletal myopathy, renal effects, bone marrow. 
Skeletal myopathy, bone marrow. 
Skeletal myopathy, nerve. 
Skeletal myopathy, peripheral neuropathy (high dose), bone marrow. 
Skeletal myopathy, nerve, bone marrow. 
No evidence of skeletal myopathy, peripheral neuropathy or renal 
changes 
The  results  of  the  repeat  dose  and  investigative  studies  consistently  demonstrated  daptomycin’s 
primary target organ to be skeletal muscle in rats and dogs, with effects observed in peripheral nerve at 
higher dose levels in both species. 
Skeletal muscle 
Daptomycin-induced myopathy was specific to the skeletal muscle in the rat and dog, which occurred 
at  exposure  levels  below  human  therapeutic  levels.  No  functional  or  pathological  changes  were 
observed in cardiac or smooth muscle.  
Microscopic changes to skeletal muscles were typically characterised by minimal to mild degeneration 
with  regeneration.  Degeneration  was  confined  to  a  few  (single,  randomly  distributed)  myofibres. 
Under light microscopy, degeneration was generally characterised by myofibre swelling, sarcoplasmic 
hyalinization  or  vacuolation,  fragmentation  and/or  loss  of  cross  striations,  accompanied  by 
inflammatory  infiltrates.  Electron  microscopic  examination  of  slightly  degenerative  fibres  revealed 
streaming  of  the  Z-band  and,  in  more  affected  fibres,  disorganisation  and  loss  of  myofilaments  and 
minimal  myofibril  lysis,  occasionally  associated  with  mitochondria  swelling  and  aggregation.  In  the 
degenerative  fibres,  there  was  no  evidence  of  disruption  of  cristae  or  calcium  deposits  in  the 
mitochondria.  All  muscle  effects,  including  microscopic  changes,  were  reversible  within  3  months 
following cessation of dosing.  
No  evidence  of  rhabdomyolysis  was  observed  even  at  the  highest  dose  levels  tested  in  non-clinical 
studies. 
8/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The degrees of skeletal myopathy appeared to be related to the dosing frequency and AUC, and were 
usually accompanied by elevations in creatinine phosphokinase (CPK). It was hypothesised that once-
daily administration reduced the potential for skeletal myopathy because this dose regimen results in 
more  time  at low plasma concentrations and, consequently, greater time between doses for repair of 
the affected myofibres. Dog studies have demonstrated that serum daptomycin levels below 10 µg/ml 
were not associated with cumulative skeletal muscle damage.  
Although the precise mechanism of daptomycin’s effect on skeletal muscle has not been completely 
elucidated  several  possible  mechanisms  were  ruled  out  based  on  comparisons  with  other  myotoxic 
drugs.  Daptomycin-induced  myopathy  did  not  appear  to  share  the  characteristics  associated  with 
inflammatory myopathy or rhabdomyolysis, and the muscle damage is unlikely to be mediated through 
a direct effect on calcium flux and/or channels. Daptomycin probably causes a direct effect on skeletal 
muscle  rather  than  an  indirect  effect  through  alterations  in  associated  tissue(s).  Daptomycin  had  no 
effect on the contractility of vascular tissue, which could lead to ischemia-reperfusion of the muscle 
fibres.  Daptomycin-related  myopathy  was  observed  at  dose  levels  that  are  not  associated  with 
peripheral neuropathy, indicating that the mechanism of muscle toxicity is not related to a change in 
muscle fibre innervation or secondary to the nerve effects.  
Peripheral nerves 
Daptomycin treatment was also associated with effects on peripheral nerves in adult rats and dogs at 
doses  higher  than  those  associated  with  skeletal  myopathy.  Dog  was  the  most  sensitive  species.  In 
juvenile dogs, degenerative effects in the peripheral nerve and spinal cord were evident at a dose of 50 
mg/kg/day,  which  was  a  lower  dose  than  those  producing  muscle  lesions  (see  “Other  toxicity 
studies”).  The  peripheral  neuropathy  was  characterised  by  axonal  degeneration  in  the  absence  of 
effects on the neuronal cell body; these microscopic lesions were associated with clinical signs (e.g. 
abnormal  posture  and  gait,  as  well  as  impaired  coordination,  inability  to  stand,  and  sternal 
recumbency) and electrophysiological evidence (e.g. reduction in nerve conduction velocities for both 
motor and sensory nerves).  
Peripheral  neuropathy  appears  to  be  related  to  Cmax.  Across  the  repeat  dose  studies,  the  severity  of 
morphologic  lesions  in  the  nerve  increased  with  dose  but  not  duration  of  dose  administration. 
Peripheral nerve effects appeared to be reversible during a 6-months recovery period, consistent with 
the absence of a microscopic effect on the neuron. The rate of recovery from daptomycin-related nerve 
effects  appears  to  be  dependent  upon  severity  of  the  effects  and,  therefore,  dose.  Assessment  of 
reversibility was, however, limited to studies in dogs. No mechanistic studies have been conducted on 
the  peripheral  neuropathy.  Non-clinical  studies  have  shown  nonetheless  that  skeletal  muscle  and 
peripheral nerves effects are independent (i.e. myopathy not secondary to neuropathy).  
Other effects 
Mild  renal  and  gastrointestinal  effects  were  observed  in  rats,  but  appeared  to  be  species-specific  as 
they were not evident in either dogs or monkeys.  
The  localisation  of  daptomycin  in  the  kidney  of  rats  may  explain  the  mild  nephrotoxic  effects 
observed  in  this  species.  No  indication  of  kidney  toxicity  was  observed  in  either  the  dog  or  the 
monkey  after  repeat  dose  injection,  suggesting  that  renal  accumulation  of  daptomycin  either  did not 
occur or was non-toxic in these species. 
Signs  of  bone  marrow  toxicity  (decreased  myeloid  to  erythroid  ratio,  decreased  erythrocyte, 
reticulocyte,  total  leukocyte  and  neutrophil,  thrombocyte  and  monocyte  numbers)  were  observed  in 
both  rats  and  dogs.  These  changes,  although  not  consistent  in  pattern,  were  treatment-related  and 
occurred  at  low  doses  (2  mg/kg/day  in  the  rat).  The  re-examination  of  these  findings  suggested  that 
any apparent haematological/bone marrow effects were adaptive as opposed to treatment-related bone 
marrow toxicity.  
Adverse  effects  of  daptomycin  on  circulating  immune  cells  were  occasionally  observed  in  rats  and 
dogs. Nonetheless, considering its antibiotic activity, it was considered possible that administration of 
9/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
daptomycin to normal healthy rats and dogs could be associated with slight effects on immune-system 
related parameters because of a decrease in normal bacterial flora. 
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo (with toxicokinetics) 
Testing  of  daptomycin  for  genotoxicity  with  a  battery  of  tests  in  bacteria,  mammalian  cells,  and  in 
vivo, did not reveal genotoxic effects of daptomycin in different concentrations and dose levels.  
•  Carcinogenicity (with toxicokinetics) 
No  carcinogenicity  studies  have  been  conducted  with  daptomycin  in  view  of  the  expected  short 
duration of treatment (less than 6 months). This is consistent with the current international guidelines 
on carcinogenicity testing. 
• 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
Daptomycin administered by iv bolus injection had no effect on fertility parameters in male and female 
rats.  NOAEL  for  reproductive  effects  was  150  mg/kg/day  and  for  parental  toxicity  <  25 mg/kg/day. 
Effects on offspring were limited to a transient decrease in body weight at 150 mg/kg/day. This effect 
which was attributed to maternal toxicity was reversible 14 days postpartum. 
Two  teratology  studies  were  conducted  in  rats  and  rabbits  with  doses  up  to  75  mg/kg/day  during 
organogenesis.  Daptomycin  was  not teratogenic in either species. The NOAEL for maternal toxicity 
was 20 mg/kg/day and for teratogenic effects 75 mg/kg/day. 
The effects of daptomycin on peri and post-natal development were evaluated in rats receiving daily 
intravenous bolus injection of daptomycin with dose level up to 75 mg/kg/day. Reproduction was not 
affected in the F0 animals, and no treatment-related developmental toxicity was noted in the offspring. 
No treatment-related effects were observed with respect to fertility of F1 dams. NOAEL for peri- and 
post-natal effects was 75 mg/kg/day, and for parental toxicity 2 mg/kg/day.  
Toxicokinetic  analyses  were  not  conducted  during  the  reproductive  toxicity  studies.  However,  data 
from  other  studies  suggest  that  the  doses  used  in  the  reproductive  toxicity  studies  resulted  in  high 
plasma levels.  
Although  these  data  do  not  indicate  direct  or  indirect  harmful  effects  with  respect  to  pregnancy, 
embryonal/ foetal development, parturition or postnatal development, in the absence of clinical data on 
pregnancies,  daptomycin  should  not  be  used  during  pregnancy  unless  clearly  necessary  as 
recommended in the Summary of Product Characteristics.  
• 
Local tolerance  
In  repeat  dose  toxicity  studies  there  was  no  evidence  of  local  injection  site  irritation.  Local 
administration  of  daptomycin  to  rabbits  resulted  in  slight,  reversible  skin  irritation  (200  mg/kg 
daptomycin) and eye irritation (11 particulate daptomycin).  
• 
Other toxicity studies 
A dose range-finding study showed that juvenile dogs were not affected by daptomycin at daily doses 
up  to  75 mg/kg  for  14  days.  In  contrast  to  these  findings,  the  pivotal  study  revealed  lesions  in  both 
peripheral nerves and spinal cord in juvenile dogs of the same age that received 50 mg/kg/day for 28 
days. The dose level at which skeletal muscle lesions occurred (150 mg/kg/day) exceeded that of nerve 
lesion  occurrence  (50  mg/kg/day),  and  the  skeletal  muscle  degeneration  was  not  accompanied  by 
increase in CPK activity. This indicates that juveniles are more sensitive than adults to daptomycin-
induced  nerve  lesions.  Additionally,  as  already  mentioned,  the  comparative  pharmacokinetics  data 
revealed that total systemic clearance appears to be faster in juvenile dogs as compared to adults.  
10/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Daptomycin appeared to have limited potential for phototoxicity or immunotoxicity, and exhibited low 
immunogenicity upon repeated administration 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An assessment of the risk was performed and no significant risk to the environment related to the use 
of daptomycin is anticipated. The potential risk of resistance developing in the environment following 
renal excretion of daptomycin cannot, however, be ruled out. 
4.  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  clinical  development  of  daptomycin  was  initiated  in  the  1980s  but  was  later  terminated  by  the 
sponsor.  Clinical  development  later  resumed  with  a  quite  different  dose  regimen  intended  improve 
efficacy  and  minimise  the  risk  of  daptomycin-associated  myopathy.  The  application  for  daptomycin 
350 mg and 500 mg vials for intravenous infusion was submitted as a stand alone application seeking 
a single indication for the treatment of complicated skin and soft tissues infections suspected or known 
to  be  caused  by  Gram-positive  bacteria  known  or  likely  to  be  susceptible  to  daptomycin  and  when 
parenteral therapy is necessary. 
The clinical programme included: 
-  A  series  of  pharmacokinetic  studies,  including  single  and  multiple  doses,  studies  in  special 
populations and interaction studies.  
-  Two  phase  II  studies  in  patients  with  Gram-positive  bacterial  infections  and  two  dose  ranging 
studies in patients with bacteraemia. 
-  Two  main  randomised,  controlled  studies  comparing  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  daptomycin  with 
standard treatments in cSSTI, one of these studies was mainly conducted in the USA whereas the 
other one was mainly conducted in Europe and South Africa. 
All  clinical  studies  were  claimed  to  have  been  performed  according  to  Good  Clinical  Practice.  The 
applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
The  clinical  trials  mostly  comply  with  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  evaluation  of  medicinal  products 
indicated for treatment of bacterial infections (EWP/ 558/95 rev. 1), even though they were conducted 
prior to the release of the current version of the Guideline. 
The approved indication is: CUBICIN is indicated for the treatment of complicated skin and soft-
tissue infections in adults (see sections 4.4 and 5.1 of the Summary of Product Characteristics). 
Daptomycin is active against Gram-positive bacteria only (see section 5.1 of the Summary of Product 
Characteristics).  In mixed infections where Gram-negative and/or certain types of anaerobic bacteria 
are suspected, CUBICIN should be co-administered with appropriate antibacterial agent(s). 
11/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic profile of daptomycin has been defined in a series of studies submitted, which 
enrolled more than 350 adult subjects. An overview of these studies is provided in Table 2. In addition 
results from interaction studies have been provided as well as a population pharmacokinetics analysis 
performed on the basis of data from patients enrolled in phase II and III studies. 
Daptomycin is for intravenous administration only. In all studies daptomycin has been administered as 
an iv infusion during 30 min.  
Table 2: Single- and multiple dose studies 
Study start 
Location 
Study objective 
1991 
USA 
1986 
USA 
1987 
USA 
1987 
USA 
2000 
USA 
1986 
USA 
1987 
USA 
1990 
USA 
1986 
USA 
2000 
UK 
2002 
USA 
1987 
USA 
2000 
USA 
2001 
USA 
2001 
USA 
2003 
USA 
2001 
USA 
2002 
USA 
B8B-LC-
AVAL 
B8B-LC-
AVAA 
B8B-LC-
AVAF 
B8B-LC-
AVAK 
DAP-00-02 
B8B-LC-
AVAB 
B8B-LC-
AVAI 
B8B-LC-
AVAP 
B8B-LC-
AVAC 
DAP-00-04 
DAP-GER-
01-11 
B8B-MC-
AVAD 
DAP-00-01 
DAP-MDRI-
01-03 
DAP-MDRI-
01-09 
DAP-REN-
02-03 
DAP-HEP-
00-09 
DAP-OBSE-
01-07 
DAP-SST-
9801-B 
2002 
South 
Africa 
2005, USA 
No 
subjects 
entered 
6 
6 
6 
6 
24  
(12 M/12 
F) 
10 
10 
14 
5 
7 
24 
45 
Protein binding 
Safety  
PK, single dose 
Dose linearity of 
single doses 
Dose linearity 
Single and multiple 
doses  
PK, single and 
multiple doses 
PK, multiple doses 
Safety and PK at 
steady state 
Safety, PK, multiple 
doses 
Distribution and 
metabolism 
Distribution 
Skin blisters 
Effects on aged 
subjects 
PK renal disease 
PK renal effects 
29 
7 
8 
25 
19 
25 
16 
PK renal disease 
(ESRD)  
Renal handling 
Tolerability and PK 
in ESRD 
Hepatic handling 
Effect on obese 
subjects 
PK, safety and 
efficacy in cSSTI 
patients 
PK, safety at higher 
doses 
Dose 
Inclusion criteria 
3 mg/kg single dose 
Healthy volunteers 
5, 10, 25, 50, 75 mg 
single dose 
0.5, 1, 1.5, 2 mg/kg 
single dose 
Healthy volunteers 
Healthy volunteers 
2, 3, 4, 6 mg/kg single dose 
3 mg/bid x 5 
Healthy volunteers 
4, 6, 8 mg/kg od 
7 or 14 days 
Healthy volunteers 
1 mg/kg od 10 days 
Healthy volunteers 
2 mg/kg od 14 days 
Healthy volunteers 
3 mg/kg bid 14 days 
4 mg/kg bid 14 days 
1 mg/kg, 14C-labelled 
single dose 
4 mg/kg 
single dose 
4 mg/kg 
single dose 
1 mg/kg 
3 mg/kg 
single dose 
4 mg/kg, single dose or two 
doses 
4 or 6 mg/kg, then 3 mg/kg 
every 48 hr (15 days) 
4 mg/kg od 14 days 
6 mg/kg od 14 days 
8 mg/kg, then 6 mg/kg 
every other day (19 days) 
6 mg/kg single dose 
4 mg/kg single dose 
4 mg/kg od  
up to 14 days 
Healthy volunteers 
Healthy volunteers 
Healthy volunteers 
Healthy volunteers:  
aged and young 
Healthy volunteers and 
patients with renal 
impairment 
Volunteers with varying 
degrees of renal 
function 
Volunteers with ESRD 
Volunteers with renal 
dysfunction 
Subjects with ESRD on 
stable haemodialysis 
Volunteers with hepatic 
dysfunction 
Healthy volunteers:  
non obese, moderately 
and extreme obese 
Patients with cSSTI 
*DAP-ADT-
04-02 
* Summary information only provided on electrophysiologic end points as full study report was not 
available 
The vast majority of the measurements have been obtained using HPLC analysis. 
6,8,10 and 12 mg/kg for up 
to 14 days 
Healthy volunteers 
36 
12/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
• 
Absorption  
The pharmacokinetic parameters obtained after single and multiple doses are presented in the Tables 3 
and 4. 
Table 3: Mean (%CV) PK Daptomycin – single doses 
Daptomycin 
Dose (i.v) 
AUC 0-∞ 
mg-hr/ml 
Cmax 
mg/l 
Tmax 
(hr) 
4 mg/kg 
6 mg/kg 
8 mg/kg  
54.6 
(10.0) 
425.3 
(13.7) 
86.4 
(8.2) 
116.3 
(8.7) 
705.38 
(9.43) 
1126 
(14.3) 
0.5 
(0.5) 
0.5 
(0.5) 
0.5 
(0.5) 
T1/2 
(hr) 
7.4 
(12.3) 
7.8 
(12.3) 
CLs 
ml/hr/kg 
Vss 
l/kg 
9.6 
(13.5) 
8.6 
(9.3) 
0.093 
(12.1) 
0.088 
(8.4) 
9.6 
(11.14) 
7.2 
(15.3) 
0.091 
(13.68) 
Dose 
Study Day 
Cmax 
mg/l 
4 mg/kg Day1  54.6 
Table 4: Mean (%CV) PK Daptomycin – multiple doses 
Tmax 
(hr) 
0.5 
(0.5) 
0.75 
(36.5) 
AUC 0-24 
mg-hr/l 
425.3* 
(13.7) 
493.5 
(15.3) 
(10.0) 
57.8 
(5.13) 
Day 7 
6 mg/kg Day 
1 
Day 7 
8 mg/kg Day 
1 
Day 7 
Day 14 
86.4 
(8.2) 
98.6 
(12.2) 
116.3 
(8.7) 
133.0 
(10.1) 
129.5 
(11.2) 
*AUC0-∞; # %CV not available 
705.38* 
(9.43) 
747.4 
(12.2) 
1126* 
(14.3) 
1129.9 
(10.4) 
1090.0 
(10.0) 
0.5 
(0.5) 
0.58 
(35.0) 
0.5 
(0.5) 
0.58 
(35.0) 
1.0 
(0.0) 
T1/2 
(hr) 
7.4 
(12.3) 
8.1 
(12.0) 
7.8 
(12.3) 
8.9 
(14.9) 
9.6 
(11.1) 
9.0 
(12.9) 
8.86 
(9.34) 
Vz 
l/kg 
0.1012 
(13.24) 
0.096 
(9.2) 
0.095 
(9.54) 
0.104 
(12.6) 
0.099 
(14.12) 
0.092 
(12.5) 
0.095 
(13.47) 
Daptomycin pharmacokinetics appeared to follow a two-compartment model, with a rapid distribution 
phase followed by a slower elimination phase. 
• 
Distribution 
The apparent volume of distribution (Vd), calculated from both single dose and multiple doses studies 
was about 0.10 l/kg.  
Studies with human plasma showed that daptomycin reversibly bound primarily to albumin (90%) at  
4  g/100  ml  but  binding  was  not  concentration  dependent.  The  potential  for  any  interaction  between 
daptomycin  and  other  medicinal  products  due  to  displacement  of  protein  binding  will  be  further 
looked at post-authorisation and reported in the PSURs. There was a trend toward decreasing serum 
protein  binding  among  subjects  with  CLcr  <30  ml/min  (87.6%),  including  haemodialysis  patients 
13/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(85.9%) and continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients (83.5%). However, binding to 
albumin  is  weak,  with  a  dissociation  constant  of  90.3  µM,  while  binding  to  Gram-positive  bacteria 
appears  to  be  very  strong  or  even  irreversible.  This  is  demonstrated  by  the  small  effect  of  serum 
proteins  on  bactericidal  activity  since  minimum  inhibitory  concentrations  (MICs)  of  daptomycin 
typically  increased  by  only  two  doubling  dilutions  in  the  presence  of  4%  human  albumin 
(approximately  75%  effective  protein  binding).  Also,  arithmetic  mean  MICs  in  95%  solutions  of 
human and mouse sera, in 5% human albumin solution and in broth showed that daptomycin was 2-4 
fold  more  active  than  would  be  predicted  from  calculations  of  free  drug  concentrations.  Thus,  the 
assumption that only the 10% free drug is active may be an underestimate.  
• 
Elimination 
In-vitro  studies  using  human  hepatocytes  showed  that  daptomycin  is  neither  an  inhibitor  nor  an 
inductor of cytochrome P450 isoenzymes. A study with human hepatic microsomes showed no loss of 
daptomycin in the presence or absence of NADPH, suggesting lack of involvement of CYP450 in the 
metabolism of daptomycin.  
In a study in healthy volunteers given 6 mg/kg daptomycin daily, four peaks that were detected at low 
concentrations  in  urine  appeared  to  reflect  phase  I  oxidative  metabolites  (either  hydroxylated  or  N-
oxidated),  perhaps  some  enzymatic  hydrolysis  and  a  fragment  of  daptomycin.  Since  no  systemic 
metabolism by CYP450 was observed, it has been proposed that catabolism of daptomycin might be 
occurring during renal excretion or within the urinary bladder.   
Daptomycin is primarily eliminated by the kidney. In the radiolabeled daptomycin study, 86% of the 
dose was recovered, with 78% in urine, 5% in faeces and 3% in breath. Of the 78% excreted in the 
urine,  52%  was  biologically  active  according  to  the  microbiological  assay.  The  rest  appeared  in  the 
urine as a biologically undetectable 14C entity that is proposed to represent peptide fragments produced 
after  renal  excretion.  The  plasma  elimination  half-life  of  daptomycin  determined  from  total 
radioactivity was 8.8 h compared to 7.6 h as determined from the microbiological assay. The whole 
blood 14C elimination half-life was about 9.1h.  
Although the risk to infants exposed to daptomycin via breast-milk is expected to be limited, the lack 
of definitive data led to a recommendation that breastfeeding should be discontinued during treatment.  
• 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
The  single  and  multiple  doses  data  showed  approximately  linear  pharmacokinetics  up  to  8  mg/kg 
daptomycin.  
Trough concentrations showed that steady state was achieved on day 4, i.e. prior to the fourth dose. No 
clear time-dependent accumulation (from day 4 and onward) was observed. The mean (± SD) steady 
state trough concentrations (days 4 to 8) attained following administration of 4, 6, and 8 mg/kg once 
daily were 5.9 (± 1.6), 9.4 (± 2.5), and 14.9 (± 2.9) mg/l, respectively. The accumulation factor within 
a given dose from Day 1 to Day 7 was approximately 20%.  
The  between-subject  variability  in  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  was  generally  low  in  healthy 
volunteers (% CV < 15 %).  
• 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
From  the  studies  that  provided  pharmacokinetics  data  in  patients  with  renal  impairment,  clearance 
decreased while AUC and half-life increased with decreasing renal function with a linear relationship 
between clearance and creatinine clearance. Correspondingly, urinary excretion dropped from 50% to 
22%  in  subjects  with  moderate  to  severe  renal  insufficiency.  The  fraction  of  the  dose  cleared  by 
haemodialysis ranged from 11-28% indicating that these patients should not require a dose adjustment 
14/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on  dialysis  days.  Probenecid  had  no  effect  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  daptomycin,  suggesting  that 
tubular secretion was not involved in daptomycin elimination. 
A  population  pharmacokinetics  analysis  was  performed  based  on  data  obtained  from  282  adult 
subjects – 153 from nine Phase I studies (conducted by Cubist) and 129 from six Phase II-III studies. 
The best fit to the data was a two-compartment linear model with first order elimination. The analysis 
confirmed the relationship between daptomycin clearance and creatinine clearance. 
The  volume  of  distribution  increased  in  patients  as  compared  to  healthy  volunteers  such  that  AUC 
values in patients with infection and CLcr >40 ml/min were on average 13 to 24% lower compared to 
matched  healthy  subjects.  An  even  greater  difference  in  AUCs  was  observed  between  patients  and 
volunteers (35-47% lower compared to healthy volunteers) in subgroups with severe renal impairment 
or with ESRD. However, the difference observed was based on small numbers per group. 
Based  on  the  final  model  from  the  population  PK  analysis  the  predicted  plasma  concentration-time 
profiles were plotted against renal function (RF) category (RF1: CrCl ≥ 80 ml/min, RF2: CrCl ≥ 50 to 
<  80  ml/min,  RF3:  CrCl  ≥  30 to <50 ml/min, RF4: CrCl <30 ml/min, RF5: end stage renal disease, 
ESRD). It was concluded that: 
-   The mean plasma concentration-time profiles in patients with mild and moderate renal impairment 
(RF2 and RF3 categories) were similar to those for healthy volunteers.  
-   The median exposure in those with CrCl ≥ 30 to <50 ml/min was approximately 20% higher than 
seen with normal renal function (501µg.hr/ml vs 410 µg.hr/ml) but this difference was within the 
between subject variability (CV >30%). This finding contrasts with an increase in AUC by 65% in 
RF3 subjects compared to RF1 subjects in a clinical study in which the analytical method used was 
different.  Thus  there  remains  uncertainty  regarding  the  true  potential  for  increased  exposure  to 
daptomycin  in  those  with  CrCl  30-50  ml/min  and  caution  is  advised  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics.   
-   The profiles for patients with severe renal impairment (RF4) and for ESRD patients (RF5) diverged 
noticeably from profiles in healthy volunteers (RF1). 
-   The  median  Cmax  values  for  each  of  the  renal  function  category  were  comparable  following  a 
4 mg/kg q24h dosing regimen (ranging from 49 to 54 µg/ml).  
Steady state simulated exposure (over one dosing interval) for patients with severe renal impairment 
(RF4) and with ESRD (RF5) is shown in the Table 5.  
Table 5: Simulated AUC Estimates by Dosing Regimen and Renal Function Category 
Renal  
Function  
4 mg/kg 
q24hr 
4 mg/kg 
q36hr 
4 mg/kg 
q48hr 
3 mg/kg 
q36hr 
3 mg/kg 
q48hr 
2 mg/kg 
q24hr 
1 
4  
5  
427 
840 
978 
N/A 
790 
991 
N/A 
780 
949 
N/A 
592 
743 
N/A 
585 
712 
N/A 
420 
488 
4 mg/kg LD  
+ 3 mg/kg 
q48hr 
N/A 
595 
734 
Overall  it  was  agreed  that  for  patients  with  creatinine  clearance  ≥  30  ml/min  no  dose  adjustment  is 
required  but,  due  to  limited  clinical  experience,  response  to  treatment  and  renal  function  should  be 
closely  monitored  in  all  patients  with  some  degree  of  renal  insufficiency  (creatinine  clearance 
< 80 ml/min). For patients with creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min, including patients on haemodialysis 
or CAPD the dose should be reduced to 4 mg/kg administered as a single dose once every 48 hours. 
These dose recommendations are based on modeling data. Nonetheless it was agreed that daptomycin 
should only be used in such patients if necessary and clinical response to treatment and renal function 
should be closely monitored in these patients. The applicant also committed to provide further efficacy 
and safety data in patients with renal insufficiency as part of the follow-up measures to be submitted 
post-authorisation. 
15/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly 
While  daptomycin  Cmax  was  similar  between  age  groups,  the  mean  AUC0-t,  AUC  (0-∞)  and  plasma 
half-lives were higher in geriatric subjects (CrCl 31-75 ml/min) compared with younger subjects (CrCl 
75-115 ml/min). In parallel, plasma and renal clearance and the fractions of the dose excreted in urine 
were lower in geriatric subjects. However, the volume of distribution (Vz and Vss) was similar between 
ages. It appeared that the effect of age on AUC was due to age-associated decreases in renal function. 
Therefore  no  dose  adjustment  is  recommended  in  the  elderly  per  se  except  those  with  severe  renal 
impairment. However as further discussed there are limited efficacy and safety data in elderly. 
Table 6: Mean (%CV) PK Daptomycin in Young and Elderly Subjects 
Dose Group 
Cmax 
mg/l 
AUC 0-∞ 
mg-hr/l 
Tmax 
(hr) 
T1/2 
(hr) 
Vss 
l/kg 
CLr 
ml/hr/kg 
CL 
ml/hr/kg 
Geriatric 
Young 
43.98 
(16.67) 
42.32 
(15.35) 
473.66 
(23.21) 
300.64 
(11.53) 
0.53 
(7.48) 
0.55 
(27.64)
11.85 
(18.98) 
6.79 
(7.78) 
0.15 
(26.83) 
0.14 
(12.86) 
4.27 
(39.97) 
7.20 
(23.53) 
9.86 
(25.09) 
15.09 
(16.93) 
Hepatic impairment 
Results  from  an  open  label,  single  dose  study  (6  mg/kg)  showed  that  moderate  hepatic  impairment 
(Child-Pugh B) did not affect daptomycin pharmacokinetics. There are no data in subjects with severe 
hepatic  impairment  and  therefore  daptomycin  should  be  used  with  caution  in  this  population  as 
mentioned in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Gender  
Study DAP-00-02 did not demonstrate any important gender effect on daptomycin pharmacokinetics 
(p> 0.16). The population pharmacokinetic analysis indicated that the average CL was approximately 
20% faster in males than females but the mean AUC calculated from the 4 mg/kg data in males (477 ± 
280  µg/ml·hr)  was  only  10%  lower  compared  to  females  (528  ±  250  µg/ml·hr).  Furthermore,  the 
magnitude  of  this  difference  was  small  relative  to  the  variability  among  subjects  (coefficient  of 
variation ≥ 47%). No dosage adjustment based solely on gender is therefore warranted.  
Weight 
In  obese  patients,  administration  of  single  4  mg/kg  doses  to  groups  with  BMI  <25,  25  to  40  and 
> 40 kg/m2  but  with  CrCl  >70  ml/min  showed  that  the  AUC0-∞  daptomycin  was  increased  in  obese 
subjects  compared  with  non-obese  matched  control  subjects  and  reached  statistical  significant  for 
extremely  obese  subjects.  In  the  population  PK  analysis,  there  were  29  extremely  obese  individuals 
found  compared  to  333  moderately  obese  and  255  non-obese.  Body  weight  was  identified  as  a 
potential  factor  influencing  inter-compartmental  clearance  and  the  volume  of  the  peripheral 
compartment. Post hoc estimates suggested that the mean AUC in moderately obese subjects was 28% 
higher and the mean AUC in extremely obese subjects was 42% higher. However, increases in both 
groups were within the variability observed (coefficient of variation = 55% in normal subjects). Dose 
adjustment based on obesity alone was considered unnecessary in moderately obese subjects. Since in 
very obese, the AUCs observed would not be expected to pose a safety risk whereas there is a risk of 
failure of therapy if doses are reduced unnecessarily, no dose adjustment is recommended however the 
limited  data  available  are  reflected  in  a  cautionary  statement  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics. 
16/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
No studies have been conducted to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of daptomycin in children but the 
applicant undertook to provide the results from a planned study as part of the follow-up measures to be 
fulfilled post-authorisation. 
• 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Considering that daptomycin undergoes no CYP450 mediated metabolism and that it does not inhibit 
or induce CYP450, the potential for pharmacokinetic drug interactions appears to be low.  
There was no evidence of interaction between aztreonam (1000 mg, single IV dose) and daptomycin 
(6 mg/kg, single IV dose) as evaluated in a three-way, crossover study involving 18 healthy subjects.  
There was no evidence of interaction between daptomycin (6 mg/kg, multiple IV dosing) and warfarin 
(25 mg, single PO dose) as evaluated in two-9 day treatment periods involving 16 healthy subjects. No 
significant pharmacokinetic changes were observed for S- or R-warfarin. 
There  was  no  evidence  of  interaction  between  daptomycin  (4  mg/kg,  multiple  IV  dosing)  and 
simvastatin (40 mg, multiple PO dosing) as evaluated in 20 patients on stable lipid-lowering therapy as 
a part of a study investigating a potential pharmacodynamic interaction between the two compounds.  
There was no evidence of interaction between daptomycin (4 mg/kg, single IV dose) and tobramycin 
(1 mg/kg, single IV dose) as evaluated in an open label, crossover design study involving six healthy 
subjects.  
There  was  no  evidence  of  interaction  between  daptomycin  (1  or  2  mg/kg,  single  IV  dose)  and 
amikacin  (500  mg,  single  IV  dose)  as  evaluated  in  twelve  healthy  subjects  as  part  of  an  open  label, 
crossover design an part of a study investigating synergistic bactericide effects.  
Because daptomycin is primarily cleared by renal filtration, caution is advised when daptomycin is co-
administered with any other medicinal product known to reduce renal filtration as recommended in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Mechanism of action 
Daptomycin  is an antibiotic with a novel mechanism of action in that it inserts into the cytoplasmic 
membrane  of  Gram-positive  cells  (aerobes  and  anaerobes),  resulting  in  dissipation  of  the  membrane 
potential,  efflux  of  potassium  ions  and  bacterial  cell  death.  The  antibacterial  activity  of  daptomycin 
requires  the  presence  of  free  calcium  (as  Ca2+)  and  so  sensitivity  test  media  must  be  supplemented 
appropriately. Broth supplemented with 50 mg/l calcium has a free (ionised) calcium concentration of 
1.10 mM, which is close to the normal range found in human serum (1.15-1.31 mM).  
• 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Concentration-dependent bactericidal activity of daptomycin has been documented, including against 
S.  aureus  (99.9%  drop  in  viable  count  at  2  x  MIC  within  30  min)  and  against  vancomycin-resistant 
enterococci  (VRE;  within  1  h  at  4  x  MIC).  There  is  also  a  concentration-dependent  post-antibiotic 
affect  (PAE)  of  up  to  6  h  against  E. faecalis  and  S.  aureus  at  concentrations  ranging  from  0.25-
15 mg/l. In animal models, daptomycin was effective against infections due to Gram-positive bacteria 
in  the  blood,  skin  and  soft  tissue  and  kidney  at  estimated  exposure  levels  equal  to  or  less  than  that 
achieved in human with the clinical dose of 4 mg/kg every 24 h.  
The in-vitro activity of daptomycin against Gram-positive bacterial pathogens was similar in the US 
and Europe. 
17/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7: Daptomycin Activity Against Selected Pathogens in Europea and the US, from the SECURE Studies 
Organism  
N= 
Resistance phenotype 
MIC Range 
(mg/l) 
US or 
EU 
MIC90 
MIC50 
S. aureus 
Oxacillin-Susceptible 
Oxacillin-Resistant 
Coagulase-negative Staphylococci 
Oxacillin-Susceptible 
Oxacillin-Resistant 
E. faecalis 
Vancomycin-Susceptible 
Vancomycin-Resistant 
E. faecium 
Vancomycin-Susceptible 
Vancomycin-Resistant 
S. pneumoniae 
Penicillin-Susceptible 
Penicillin-Intermediate 
Penicillin-Resistant 
S. agalactiae (Lancefield Group B) 
S. pyogenes (Lancefield Group A) 
Viridans group streptococci  
US 
EU 
US 
EU 
US 
EU 
US 
EU 
US 
EU 
US 
EU 
US 
EU 
US 
EU 
US 
EU 
US 
EU 
US 
EU 
US 
EU 
US 
US 
713 
888 
305 
334 
356 
486 
770 
554 
0.03- 0.5 
<0.015-1.0 
0.12- 0.5 
0.12- 1.0 
<0.015-2.0 
0.03- 1.0 
<0.015-2.0 
0.03-1.0 
2,049 
0.03-4.0 
1,798 
40 
40 
<0.015-4.0 
<0.015-2.0 
0.5-4.0 
147 
333 
219 
114 
728 
619 
248 
165 
187 
81 
273 
367 
484 
369 
0.06-8.0 
0.03-8.0 
0.25-4.0 
0.25-4.0 
<0.015-0.25 
<0.015-1.0 
<0.015-0.5 
0.03-0.5 
<0.015-0.25 
0.06-1.0 
0.03-0.5 
0.06-1.0 
<0.015-0.5 
<0.015-2.0 
0.25 
0.25 
0.25 
0.25 
0.25 
0.25 
0.25 
0.25 
1.0 
1.0 
1.0 
1.0 
2.0 
2.0 
2.0 
2.0 
0.12 
0.12 
0.12 
0.12 
0.12 
0.12 
0.12 
0.25 
0.03 
0.25 
0.25 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
2.0 
2.0 
2.0 
2.0 
4.0 
4.0 
4.0 
4.0 
0.12 
0.25 
0.25 
0.25 
0.12 
0.25 
0.25 
0.25 
0.06 
1.0 
a Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and UK. 
Resistance 
Daptomycin-resistant  variants  (8  to  32-fold  increase  in  MIC)  of  S. aureus  have  been  generated 
following a minimum of 20 serial passages or through chemical mutagenesis. Some of these mutants 
had lost significant virulence. In others, resistance in vitro exceeded the detectable change in in-vivo 
susceptibility.  
In  the  clinical  trials,  the  development  of  resistance  during  treatment  occurred  twice  among  >  1000 
patients but by mid-2005 there were eight reports of possible resistance in S. aureus since launch in 
the  USA  in  September  2003.  Most  of  these  post-treatment  isolates  were  reported  as  having 
daptomycin MICs of 4 mg/l.  
In addition, results that became available from a study of up to 6 weeks therapy with daptomycin at 
6 mg/kg/day in patients with infective endocarditis or bacteraemia revealed eight patients who had S. 
aureus that appeared to acquire increased daptomycin MICs (by 4-16-fold) while on study. Seven of 
these  eight  were  treated  with  daptomycin  but  one  received  vancomycin.  Six  out  of  seven  of  the 
daptomycin patients were judged as failures at test of cure (TOC) although the reduced susceptibility 
18/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
may  or  may  not  have  contributed  to  their  failure  to  respond  to  therapy.  The  patient  treated  with 
vancomycin was judged a success at TOC. Of the six failures on daptomycin, five had MRSA. There 
is therefore a potential for selection of resistant organisms when daptomycin monotherapy is used for 
difficult to treat infections and/or for prolonged periods. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic  
The  three  initial  in  vivo  studies  submitted  based  on  the  S.  aureus  immunosuppressed  mouse  thigh 
infection model concluded that the parameter most predictive of clinical efficacy was the ratio of the 
24 h AUC/MIC. However, the AUC/MIC ratio calculated by the three groups differed substantially. 
Therefore, a new study was performed with five S. aureus with MICs from 1 µg/ml to16 µg/ml. The 
results indicated that higher AUCs of daptomycin were required to treat S. aureus with MICs at 4, 8, 
and  16  µg/ml  but  the  AUC  required  for  treating  infections  with S.  aureus  with  daptomycin  MICs  ≤ 
2 µg/ml remained constant. 
AUCs  in  patients  may  be  up  to  30%  lower  than  the  mean  in  healthy  volunteers  (after  4  mg/kg  the 
mean daptomycin AUC was 383 µg.h/ml in patients versus 494 µg.h/ml in healthy volunteers) but it 
was considered that daptomycin levels should still fall within the therapeutic range based on data from 
the neutropenic model. 
Taking all the in vitro and PK/PD data into account, the CHMP and EUCAST (European Committee 
on  Antimicrobial  Susceptibility  Testing)  agreed 
the  breakpoints  for  susceptibility  for 
staphylococci and for those streptococci relevant to the indication should be susceptible ≤ 1µg/ml and 
resistant > 1 µg/ml. 
that 
Given  the  insufficient  evidence  of  daptomycin’s  clinical  effect  against  Enterococcus  faecalis  and 
Enterococcus faecium and the fact that enterococci are considered to be of dubious relevance for the 
clinical indication no breakpoints have been set. 
Due  to  the  pre-clinical  observations  of  effects  on  nerves,  a  study  in  healthy  volunteers  (120  -  60 
daptomycin,  60  controls)  assessed  peripheral  nerve  function  and  cardiac  repolarisation  during 
administration  of  daptomycin  at  6  mg/kg  daily  for  14  days  or  a  normal  saline  placebo.  A  blinded 
review  of  the  data  concluded  that  daptomycin  did  not  induce  functional  deficits  consistent  with 
myopathy  or  neuropathy  or  any  clinically  meaningful  change  in  cardiac  repolarisation.  For  nerve 
function  endpoints,  changes  from  baseline  to  days  14  and  28  were  very  small  although  there  was  a 
significantly greater increase in the symptoms and deficit total score in the daptomycin group (0.7 vs -
0.6  for  placebo;  p=0.024).  QTcB  data  indicated  a  slightly  greater  shift  from  baseline  in  the  placebo 
group on day 14 but no subject had an increase > 60 ms on this day. 
Clinical efficacy  
• 
Dose response study(ies) 
There were no dose-finding studies specific to the indication sought. The rationale for the choice of 
the dose 4 mg/kg once daily is therefore based on early studies performed in Gram positive bacterial 
infections including some patients with complicated skin and soft tissues, PK/PD considerations and 
safety  concerns.  These  early  studies  conducted  showed  that  2  mg/kg  once  daily  seemed  effective 
against  cSSTI  but  not  in  patients  with  concurrent  bacteraemia.  While  3  mg/kg  twice  daily  was  as 
effective  as  standard  therapy  in  patients  with  bacteraemia,  4  mg/kg  once  daily  was  as  effective  as 
3 mg/kg twice daily in such patients. With respect to the safety concerns, the frequency and severity of 
muscle effects increased with dose fractionation and decreased with once daily dosing in the dog and 
experience in man indicated that 8 mg/kg once daily for 14 days did not give symptomatic myopathy 
in six subjects whereas 4 mg/kg twice daily gave this reaction in 2/5 subjects.  
• 
Main study(ies)   
19/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The two studies pivotal to the indication sought (cSSTI) were investigator-blinded, randomised, multi-
centre  studies  of  very  similar  but  not  identical  design.  An  overview  of  these  studies  is  provided  in 
Table 8. 
Table 8: Main studies of Daptomycin in cSSTI 
Study 
Number 
Phas
e 
Design 
Dose of 
daptomycin 
DAP-SST-
9801 
III 
DAP-SST-
9901 
III 
4 mg/kg 
once daily 
4 mg/kg 
once daily 
Randomised, 
single-blind, 
multicentre study 
vs vancomycin 
or penicillins 
Randomised, 
single-blind, 
multicentre study 
vs vancomycin 
or penicillins 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Total 
subjects 
(No. 
received 
daptomycin
) 
547 (265) 
571 (269) 
Start 
/ End 
dates 
Mar 
1999 
– Aug 
2001 
Mar 
2000 
– Dec 
2000 
Regions where 
conducted 
USA (64 centers) and 
South Africa (5 centers) 
39 sites in Europe 
(Austria, Czech Republic, 
France, Germany, 
Hungary, Russia, Slovak 
Republic, Spain and UK),  
20 sites in South Africa 
sites in Australia 
3 sites in Israel. 
The  studies  enrolled  adult  patients  with  a  diagnosis  of  cSSTI  known  or  suspected  (based  on  Gram 
strain) to be due to Gram-positive bacteria. Entry criteria are summarised in Table 9. 
Table 9: Entry criteria 
Inclusion criteria 
Diagnosis of a Gram-positive bacterial skin and soft tissue infection with 
some complicating factor e.g. pre-existing skin lesion, an underlying 
condition that adversely affects delivery of drug to the affected area, the 
immunological response, or the tissue healing response. 
At least 3 of the following signs and symptoms: pain; tenderness to 
palpation; fever; WBC count >12,000/mm3 or >10% bands; swelling; 
erythema (>1cm beyond wound edge); induration; pus formation. 
Diagnosis of a cSSTI of sufficient severity to require hospitalisation with 
parenteral antimicrobial therapy for at least 4 calendar days. 
Exclusion criteria 
Burn wound infections that are third degree in nature 
Bacteraemia 
Furuncle, simple abscess, acne, impetigo, erysipelas, or other minor 
superficial infection 
Cellulitis, not associated with complicating factors 
cSSTI Studies 
9801 
(cid:51) 
9901 
(cid:51) 
(cid:51) 
(cid:51) 
(cid:51) 
(cid:51) 
(cid:51) 
(cid:51) 
(cid:51) 
(cid:51) 
(cid:51) 
(cid:51) 
(cid:51) 
Although  bacteraemia  was  an  exclusion  criterion,  those  patients  who  were  found  to  be  bacteraemic 
post-baseline could continue in the studies.  
Randomisation  was  stratified  based  on  whether  the  primary  diagnosis  was  infected  diabetic  ulcer  or 
not. 
20/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients were not prospectively classified according to overall severity at baseline and enrolment was 
not  stratified.  The  criteria  used  to  define  severe  infections  were  slightly  different  in  both  studies.  In 
study 9801 one or more of the following conditions were required: 
1.  positive blood cultures at baseline 
2. 
fulfilment  of  the  published  definition  for systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) 
by  having  2  or  more  of  the  following  findings:  temperature  >38°C  or  <36°C;  heart  rate  >90 
beats/minute; respiration rate >20 breaths/minute; or white blood cells (WBC) ≥12 x 103/µl or <4 
x 103/µl or >10% bands) 
at least 3 of 8 physical signs at the primary site of infection assessed as “severe” 
3. 
In  Study  9901,  the  first  two  conditions  applied  and  for  the  third,  patients  had  to  have  severe 
tenderness, erythema or swelling. 
Treatments 
Eligible patients were randomised 1:1 to receive either daptomycin 4 mg/kg daily by iv infusion over 
30 min or the comparator. Prior to randomisation the blinded investigator was expected to choose the 
appropriate comparator selected from a list based on local availability and normal treatment practice, 
dose, and regimen to be used if the patient was randomised to comparator. Options were: 
(cid:131)  Vancomycin 1g i.v. q12h 
(cid:131)  Oxacillin 4-12g per day i.v. in equally divided doses 
(cid:131)  Cloxacillin 4-12g per day i.v. in equally divided doses 
(cid:131)  Nafcillin 4-12g per day i.v. in equally divided doses (9801 only) 
(cid:131)  Flucloxacillin 4-12g per day i.v. in equally divided doses (9901 only). 
Patients with creatinine clearance of 30 to 70 ml/min were to receive a modified dosing regimen for 
daptomycin  (4  mg/kg  loading  dose,  followed  by  3  mg/kg  q36  hr).  Vancomycin  dosing  was  to  be 
adjusted according to a published monogram or results of therapeutic drug monitoring. Subjects with 
CLCR <30 ml/min were excluded from the study.  
In both studies, patients with polymicrobial infections proven or suspected to involve Gram-negative 
and/or anaerobic bacteria as well as Gram-positive organisms could receive concomitantly aztreonam 
or metronidazole or both as necessary.  
Both protocols provided for a switch to oral medication if certain criteria were met. 
The  duration  of  intravenous  therapy  was  to  be  7  to  14  days  for  both  regimens  (daptomycin  or 
comparator), with the actual duration based on investigator judgment of the subject’s response. If, in 
the  investigator’s  opinion,  a  subject  required  more  than  14  days  of  therapy,  the  duration  of  therapy 
could be extended following discussion with the medical monitor. 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  for  both  studies  was  to  demonstrate  non-inferiority  of  daptomycin  to  that  of 
vancomycin  or  selected  semisynthetic  penicillins  in  the  treatment  of  cSSTI  due  to  Gram-positive 
bacteria. Daptomycin was to be considered non-inferior to the comparator agents if the lower margin 
of the 95% confidence interval for the difference in success rates between treatment groups was above 
10% for the primary endpoint. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
A  blinded  investigator  at  each  site  performed  all  evaluations  of  clinical  signs  and  symptoms, 
determined  the  duration  of  therapy,  assessed  clinical  outcomes  and  established  the  relationship  of 
adverse events to study therapy. The End-of-therapy (EOT) visit was done within 3 days of the last 
dose  of  study  drug.  The  Post-Therapy  (test  of  cure,  TOC)  visit  was  conducted  7  to  12  days  post-
treatment. The Post-Study visit was conducted 21 to 28 days post-treatment and was performed only 
for those cured or improved at TOC.  
The following definitions were used for clinical responses at EOT and TOC visits: 
21/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cure:  
Improved:  
Resolution of clinically significant signs and symptoms associated with the skin 
infection at baseline (return to pre-infection baseline). 
Partial resolution of clinical signs and symptoms of the skin infection so that no 
further antibacterial therapy was required. 
Inadequate response to therapy. 
Failure:  
Unable to Evaluate:   Unable to determine because lost to follow-up. 
Failures were “carried forward” regardless of subsequent assessments. 
Before  unblinding  the  studies,  the  Sponsor  reviewed  the  clinical  data  with  respect  to  validity  of 
diagnosis,  diagnostic  group,  valid  pathogens,  confounding  concomitant  medications  or  procedures, 
population assignment and outcomes.  
Populations for analysis were: 
Intent-to-Treat  Population  (ITT):  all  treated  patients  who  had  a  cSSTI.  Modified  Intent-to-Treat 
Population (MITT): all ITT patients with a Gram-positive pathogen isolated at baseline. 
Clinically  Evaluable  Population  (CE):  all  ITT  patients  for  whom  the  clinical  outcome  could  be 
inferred to reflect the effect of the study compound.  
Patients  were  considered  clinically  evaluable  clinical  successes  if  they  had  not  received  potentially 
effective non-study antibiotics for any other reason had received ≥4 days of study medication (with at 
least  80%  dose  compliance  in  Study  9901)  and  were  judged  to  be  cured  or  improved  by  the 
investigator at TOC.  
Patients were considered evaluable clinical failures if they met one or more of the following criteria: 
outcome judged a failure by the investigator at any time up to and including the TOC visit or received 
potentially effective non-study antibiotics for lack of efficacy and/or had the primary site of infection 
surgically removed, and/or had no evaluation after the EOT.  
Microbiologically Evaluable Population (ME) 
All CE patients with a Gram-positive pathogen at baseline. 
The primary endpoint was the Sponsor- defined clinical outcome at the test- of- cure evaluation.  
Sample size 
The  sample  size  of  each  study  was  calculated  to  provide  sufficient  patients  to  conclude  that 
daptomycin was at least as effective as the comparator based on clinical success rates. 
RESULTS STUDY 9801 
Participant flow 
A total of 547 subjects were randomised to study treatment. Disposition of patients is presented in 
Table 10  
Table 10: Summary of Subject Populations (Study 9801) 
Disposition 
Randomised 
Randomised Not Treated 
Intent-to-Treat (ITT) 
Modified Intent-to-Treata (MITT) 
Clinically Evaluable (CE) 
Not Clinically Evaluable 
Microbiologically Evaluable (ME) 
Not Microbiologically Evaluable 
a. Percentages calculated using ITT population 
Daptomycin 
Comparator 
272 
8 
256 
209 
223 
33 
187 
69 
81.6% 
87.1% 
12.9% 
73% 
27% 
275 
9 
261 
212 
222 
39 
189 
72 
81.2% 
85.1% 
14.9% 
72.4% 
27.6% 
22/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The two treatment groups were well balanced with regard to age, weight, gender, and race. There were 
no apparent differences between the treatment groups in the proportion of subjects who discontinued 
therapy or in the reasons for discontinuation (mainly due to adverse events or clinical failure). 
Eight signs (tenderness, erythema, oedema, purulent drainage, fluctuance, induration, ulceration, and 
necrotic  tissue)  and  6  symptoms  (localised  pain,  swelling,  drainage,  redness,  chills,  and  fever)  of 
infection were assessed at each evaluation. The two treatment groups were statistically comparable for 
all  these  baseline  factors,  except  purulent  drainage  which  was  present  in  76%  of  the  subjects  in  the 
daptomycin group compared to 84% of the subjects in the comparator group and fluctuance (in 47% 
and  40%  in  respective  groups)  but  there  were  no  difference  in  proportions  with  moderate  or  severe 
scores for these signs. Just over one third of patients per group (35% and 38%) had fever at baseline. 
There  was  a  slight  numerical  inferiority  for  the  daptomycin  group  with  respect  to  proportions  with 
diabetes or peripheral vascular disease at baseline. 
Primary diagnoses of cSSTI 
The  Sponsor-determined  diagnoses  placed  wound  infections  as  commonest  (42%  in  daptomycin 
versus 50% in comparator), followed by major abscesses (24% vs 17%), infected diabetic ulcers (13% 
vs 15%), other ulcers (14% vs 13%) and other infections (8% vs 5%). There were 50% on daptomycin 
and  53%  on  comparator  that  met  the  criteria  for  severity.  Over  40%  per  group  were  classified  as 
having systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS). 
Microbiology 
Gram-positive  organisms  were  cultured  from  431/530  patients  (81%).  The  most  frequently  isolated 
pathogen was S. aureus (73% daptomycin group vs 69% comparator group) and MRSA accounted for 
around 16% of all pathogens.  
Treatment compliance 
Of 256 ITT patients that received daptomycin, 215 (84%) received 4 mg/kg daily throughout the study 
and  41  (16%)  had  the  regimen  adjusted  due  to  renal  insufficiency.  Of  the  260  that  received 
comparative  therapy,  40%  received  semi-synthetic  penicillins  (mainly  oxacillin  or  nafcillin)  while 
60% received vancomycin (a small number appear to have received both vancomycin and a penicillin 
at  some  time  during  the  period  of  therapy).  Treatment  was  administered  for  7-14  days  in  65%  on 
daptomycin and on comparators while 15% and 17% per group were treated for > 14 days. There were 
only  22  (9%)  and  32  (12%)  per  group  who  switched  to  oral  therapy,  mainly  to  allow  hospital 
discharge. Similar proportions (32% per group) received aztreonam and/or metronidazole and 40% in 
each group had adjunctive surgical treatment. 
23/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes 
Sponsor-assigned  clinical  outcomes  in  the  CE  and  MITT  populations  at  TOC  gave  95%  confidence 
intervals within 10% while cure rates were numerically similar between treatments (Tables 11 and 12). 
In both populations, cure rates were slightly higher in the daptomycin group. In the ITT population, 
success rates were 65% and 64% with 95% CI at -9.9, 6.6. 
Table 11: Clinical response at Test-of Cure in MITT population (Study 9801) 
Comparator 
N =212 
Daptomycin 
N = 209 
Analysis 
Clinical success 
Cure 
Clinical improvement 
Clinical failure* 
*documented failure in 22% per group 
140 (67%) 
91 (44%) 
49 (23%) 
69 (33%) 
142 (67%) 
85 (40%) 
57 (27%) 
70 (33%) 
Table 12: Clinical response at Test-of Cure in CE population (Study 9801) 
Analysis 
Daptomycin 
N = 223 
Comparator 
N =222 
Clinical success 
Cure 
Clinical improvement 
Clinical failure 
167 (75%) 
110 (49%) 
57 (26%) 
56 (25%) 
166 (75%) 
100 (45%) 
66 (30%) 
56 (25%) 
95% CI 
(-9.0, 9.0 ) 
95% CI 
(-8.2, 8.0) 
At TOC, in the MITT population, investigator-assigned success rates were 72% per group with 95% 
CI at -8.6 and 8.5 while cure rates were 46% for daptomycin and 43% for comparative therapy. At the 
post-study visit the investigators considered that 95% and 93% per group had a sustained cure. 
Clinical success rates by treatment group were also compared for subjects who did or did not receive 
oral  treatment  following  i.v.  therapy.  Success  rates  were  67%  per  group  for  MITT  patients  not 
switched to oral therapy with rates of 12/18 (67%) for daptomycin and 17/24 (70%) for those in the 
comparative group who switched. For those with a successful outcome and no switch to oral therapy, 
the median durations of treatment were 9 days for daptomycin (n=128) and 10 days for comparators 
(n=125). 
Analyses  of  sponsor-  defined  clinical  outcomes  were  also  performed  for  subject  subgroups.  Severe 
infections and patients with SIRS responded less well and the differences compared to those with non-
severe  infections  or  no  SIRS  were  greater  in  the  comparative  group.  However,  success  rates  were 
actually fairly comparable between treatments within these sub-groups. The success rates were lower 
in  patients  over  65  years  treated  with  daptomycin  (see  Table  13)  The  effect  of  surgical  intervention 
was inconsistent between treatment groups. 
Table 13: Clinical success rates at TOC by age and other factors in MITT population (Study 9801) 
Analysis 
Age <65 
Age >65 
Severe 
Not severe 
SIRS 
No SIRS 
Surgical intervention 
No Surgical intervention 
Bacteraemia 
Daptomycin 
N = 209 
102/137 (75%) 
38/72 (53%) 
70/107 (65%) 
70/102 (69%) 
58/89 (65%) 
82/120 (68%) 
25/44 (57%) 
115/165 (70%) 
1/4 (25%) 
Comparator 
N =212 
96/150 (64%) 
46/62 (74%) 
68/111 (61%) 
74/101 (73%) 
60/97 (62%) 
82/115 (71%) 
34/47 (72%) 
108/165 (66%) 
4/6 (67%) 
95% CI 
(-21.1, 0.1)  
(5.6, 37.3) 
(-16.9, 8.6) 
(-7.8, 17.1) 
(-17.1, 10.5 
(-8.8, 14.7) 
(-3.9, 35.0) 
(-14.3, 5.8) 
195% confidence interval around the difference in success rate (Comparator - Daptomycin) using normal approximation to 
the binomial distribution. 
24/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no significant differences between the treatment groups for subgroups defined by gender. 
The  Table  14  shows  that  clinical  success  rates  were  lower  in  both  treatment  groups  but  similar 
between treatments for infections due to MRSA. In the comparative group, 29 of the 35 with MRSA at 
baseline  had  been  started  on  vancomycin  and  4  had started  on  a  penicillin  before  being  switched  to 
vancomycin.  
Table 14: Clinical success rates by infecting pathogen – MITT in 9801 
Analysis 
S. aureus 
S. aureus (MSSA) 
S. aureus (MRSA) 
S. pyogenes 
S. agalactiae 
E. faecalis 
Daptomycin 
N = 209 
100/150 (67%) 
73/103 (71%) 
17/34 (50%) 
27/33 (82%) 
13/17 (77%) 
13/25 (52%) 
Comparator 
N = 212 
96/147 (65%) 
66/97 (68%) 
18/35 (51%) 
25/35 (71%) 
14/21 (67%) 
19/33 (58%) 
95% CI 
-12.1, 9.4 
-15.6, 9.9 
-22.2, 25 
Microbiological  response  rates  by  patient  in  the  ME  population  at  TOC  were  mainly  based  on 
presumptive  eradications  following  successful  clinical  outcomes  and  so  were  also  very  similar 
between groups.  
RESULTS STUDY 99-01 
Participant flow 
A  total  of  571  subjects  were  randomised  to  study  treatment,  and  531  completed  therapy.  The 
disposition  of  patients  is  presented  in  Table  15.  There  were  no  apparent  differences  between  the 
treatment  groups  in  the  proportion  of  subjects  who  discontinued  drug  therapy  or  in  the  reasons  for 
discontinuation (mainly due to adverse events or clinical failure) 
Table 15: Summary of Subject Populations (9901) 
Disposition 
Randomised 
Randomised Not Treated 
Intent-to-Treat (ITT) 
Modified Intent-to-Treata  (MITT) 
Clinically Evaluable (CE) 
Not Clinically Evaluable 
Microbiologically Evaluable (ME) 
Not Microbiologically Evaluable 
a. Percentages calculated using ITT population 
277 
7 
270 
213 
245 
25 
196 
74 
Daptomycin 
Comparator 
294 
2 
292 
255 
262 
30 
231 
61 
(78.9%) 
(90.7%) 
(9%) 
(72.6%) 
(27.4%) 
(87.3%) 
(89.7%) 
(10%) 
(79.1%) 
(20.9%) 
The treatment groups were reasonably well matched with regard to subject demographics and baseline 
signs  and  symptoms,  including  severity  scores,  except  that  fever  was  more  common  in  the 
comparative group at 57% compared to 45% in the daptomycin group. Also, diabetes and peripheral 
vascular disease were slightly more common in the comparative group.  
Primary diagnoses of cSSTI 
The  Sponsor-designated  diagnoses  placed  wound  infections  as  the  most  common  (42%  per  group) 
followed by major abscesses (29% and 27%), non-diabetic ulcers (13% and 14%), diabetic ulcers (9% 
and 11%) and other infections (7% per group). There were 181 subjects (67%) on daptomycin and 177 
subjects (61%) on comparator that met clinical or laboratory criteria for a severe infection.  
25/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Microbiology 
The most frequently isolated pathogen was S. aureus (70% and 68% per group) but MRSA isolation 
rates were only 2.3% and 4.3%. 
Treatment compliance 
The mean duration of therapy was shorter in the daptomycin group (7.4 days compared to 8.1 days) 
among patients with a successful sponsor-assigned outcome at TOC. In the comparative group, overall 
78%  received  semi-synthetic  penicillins  and  22%  received  vancomycin.  In  fact,  149  received 
cloxacillin, 59 oxacillin, 19 flucloxacillin and 2 received flucloxacillin and vancomycin. There were 
46  (17%)  patients  in  the  daptomycin  group  and  64  (22%)  in  the  comparator  group  that  received 
aztreonam or metronidazole while 20% in each group had adjunctive surgical treatment.  
Switch  to  oral  medication  was  significantly  more  frequent  among  subjects  in  the  comparator  group 
(37/292;  12.7%)  than  in  the  daptomycin  group  (20/270;  7.4%);  the  primary  reasons  were  clinical 
improvement and subject request. 
Outcomes 
In the MITT and CE populations, the Sponsor-defined success rates were very similar, with 95% CI 
within  10%.  Cure  rates  were  also  very  similar  but  there  was  a  numerical  inferiority  for  daptomycin 
(Tables 16 and 17). In the ITT population, success rates were 81% in each group (95% CI -6.1, 6.9) 
while cure rates were 38% and 42% per group. 
Analysis 
Clinical success 
Table 16: Clinical response at Test-of Cure in MITT population (Study 9901) 
Comparator 
N = 255 
214 (83.9%) 
110 (43.1%) 
104 (40.8%) 
41 (16.1%) 
Daptomycin 
N = 213 
180 (84.5%) 
82 (38.5%) 
98 (46%) 
33 (15.5%) 
Cure 
Clinical improvement 
Clinical failure 
95% CIa 
(-7.2, 6.0) 
a.95% confidence interval around the difference in success rates (comparator – daptomycin), without continuity correction, 
using normal approximation to the binomial distribution. N.B. Negative values denote that daptomycin performed better than 
comparator. 
Table 17: Clinical response at Test-of Cure in CE population (Study 9901) 
Analysis 
Clinical success 
Cure 
Clinical improvement 
Clinical failure 
Daptomycin 
N = 238 
217 (88.6%) 
103 (42%) 
114 (46.5%) 
28 (11.4%) 
Comparator 
N = 250 
235 (89.7%) 
122 (46.6%) 
113 (43.1%) 
27 (10.3%) 
95% CIa 
(-4.3, 6.5) 
a.95% confidence interval around the difference in success rates (comparator – daptomycin), without continuity correction, 
using normal approximation to the binomial distribution. N.B. Negative values denote that daptomycin performed better than 
comparator. 
In  comparison,  the  investigator-assigned  outcomes  at  TOC  for  the  MITT  population  gave  clinical 
success rates of 88.7% and 87.5% (95% CI -7.2, 4.6), with cure rates of 40.4% and 44.7%. At the post-
study visit, 5% of clinically evaluable patients (9 and 11 per treatment group) were considered to have 
relapsed  by  the  investigators.  Seven  relapsed  patients  in  each  group  were  culture  positive,  with  S. 
aureus isolated from 5 patients in the daptomycin and from 4 in the comparative group.  
Among  those  who  received  only  intravenous  therapy,  sponsor-assigned  clinical  success  rates  were 
86% in both treatment groups (95% CI -6.1, 7.2) while rates for those who switched were 9/13 (69%) 
for daptomycin and 23/33 (70%) in the comparative group.  
Analyses  based  on  sponsor-  defined  clinical  outcomes  were  also  performed  for  subject  subgroups 
(Table 18). Gender did not affect outcomes in this study. Severity and the presence of SIRS did not 
26/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
seem  to  markedly  influence  success  rates  although  those  without  SIRS  did  a  little  better.  As  in  the 
previous study, the success rates were lower in patients >65 years age group treated with daptomycin. 
The infections that required surgical intervention responded far less well then those that did not need 
such action but this effect was seen to a similar extent regardless of the assigned therapy.  
Table 18 Clinical success rates at TOC by age and other factors in MITT population (Study 9901) 
95 % CI 
Analysis 
Daptomycin 
N = 213 
Comparator 
N =255 
Age <65 
Age >65 
Severe 
Not severe 
SIRS 
No SIRS 
Surgical intervention 
No Surgical intervention 
Bacteraemia 
147/169 (87%) 
33/44 (75%) 
119/141 (84%) 
61/72 (85%) 
57/71 (80%) 
123/142 (87%) 
35/46 (76%) 
145/167 (87%) 
3/6 (50%) 
174/206 (85%) 
40/49 (82%) 
128/153 (84%) 
86/102 (84%) 
66/82 (81%) 
148/173 (86%) 
35/51 (69%) 
179/204 (88%) 
3/6 (50%) 
(-9.6, 4.6) 
(-10.1, 23.4) 
(-9.1, 7.6) 
(-11.3, 10.5) 
(-12.4, 12.8) 
(-8.7, 6.6) 
(-25.2, 10.3) 
(-5.9, 7.7) 
Sponsor-assigned microbiological responses (eradication rates) by patient in the MITT population at 
TOC were 73% and 75% while in the ME population rates were 80% and 82%. The 95% confidence 
intervals were within or very nearly within 10% for both comparisons.  
The clinical and microbiological outcomes by pathogen are shown below (Table 19). Among the very 
few MRSA, response rates were 4/5 for daptomycin and 9/11 for comparators.  
Table 19: Clinical responses at TOC by pathogen - MITT in 9901 
Pathogen 
Number of subjects with positive 
culturesa 
Staphylococcus aureus (all) 
Streptococcus pyogenes 
Streptococcus agalactiae 
Other streptococci 
Enterococcus faecalis  
Daptomycin 
N = 213 
Comparator 
N = 255 
123/149 (82.6%) 
54/59 (91.5%) 
11/13 (85%) 
14/20 (70%) 
14/20 (70%) 
145/173 (83.8%) 
57/68 (83.8%) 
9/18 (50%) 
24/28 (86%) 
23/28 (82%) 
95% CI 
-6.9, 9.5 
-19, 3.6 
In the MITT population, 25 and 24 per group were clinical successes at TOC but had persistence of 
the pathogen. Of these, 38 patients were infected with S. aureus, including 21 in the daptomycin group 
and  17  in  the  comparative  group.  The  mean  study  days  to  the  TOC  evaluation  was  16  days  for 
daptomycin patients compared to 20 days for those in the comparative group but the ultimate time to 
clearance was similar between the two groups. On this basis, the applicant states that the difference in 
microbiological clearance rates at TOC was a function of the timing of the visit.  
• 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Although  there  were  differences  between  studies  9801  and  9901  including  patient  characteristics, 
choice  of  vancomycin  or  semi-synthetic  penicillins  and  sponsor’s  and  physicians  assessments  of 
outcome some pooling analysis have been done to further address some findings. These are presented 
in the section related to discussion on the efficacy. 
• 
Clinical studies in special populations 
There are currently no data available on the efficacy of CUBICIN in children. The applicant 
committed to submit future plans for studies in children. 
Rates of clinical success and cure were similar for Blacks and Caucasians in 9901. In 9801, success 
and  cure  rates  were  much  higher  in  Blacks  and  favoured  daptomycin.  However,  multiple  regression 
analysis  did  not  detect  an  interaction  between  treatment  and  race  although  there  was  a  significant 
27/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
effect  on  outcome  of  co-morbidities,  MRSA  and  geographic  area.  The  factors  that  might  have 
contributed  to  the  difference  in  responses  to  daptomycin  in  9801  included  a  lower  incidence  of 
diabetes in Blacks in the daptomycin group (26% vs 38%) and more patients in the comparator group 
had SIRS (52% vs 34%).  
• 
Supportive study(ies) 
Few supportive studies were submitted but due to limited number of patients involved, they provided 
limited support for the studies on the efficacy of daptomycin in the treatment of cSSTI due to Gram-
positive bacteria. 
Discussion on the clinical efficacy 
Overall  the  primary  analysis  of  both  studies  9801  and  9901  suggested  that  daptomycin  was  as 
efficacious as the comparator in the treatment of cSSTI however the demonstration of non-inferiority 
was discussed in the Committee and the following points were raised. 
•  The  pre-defined  choice  of  the  MITT  population  for  the  primary  analysis  was  questioned. 
However, results were also shown for the CE population and were satisfactory.  
•  The use of “improved” as a judgement of outcome and the derivation of clinical success rates, on 
which the primary comparison of outcomes was based, could be opened for criticism. However, an 
outcome of improved required that no further antibacterial therapy was necessary. Therefore, the 
derivation of success rates was deemed acceptable, especially since cure rates were also presented 
separately in the tabulations.  
•  Range of diagnoses allowed and the requirement for only 3 of a list of signs and symptoms to be 
present  which  might  leave  open  the  possibility  of  enrolling  patients  with  uncomplicated  or 
borderline complicated infections. There is currently a lack of consensus on the definition of what 
constitutes a complicated SSTI. The inclusion criteria in 9801 and 9901 required the existence of 
potentially complicating factors. Overall, it was considered that patients enrolled in 9801 and 9901 
had cSSTI. In study 9801, 88% in the daptomycin group and 89% in the comparative group had at 
least 5 signs and symptoms at baseline while 69% and 73% in respective groups had 6 or more. In 
study  9901,  97%  in  both  treatment  groups  had  at  least  5  signs  and  symptoms  at  baseline  while 
90% and 91% per group had at least 6. 
•  Severity  of  the  infection.  While  the  two  protocols  varied  slightly  in  the  definition  of  severe 
infections,  applying  the same set of criteria for severe infections to both study populations gave 
similar proportions between studies. Also, there were no major differences between outcomes in 
patients with severe and non-severe infections who were treated with daptomycin as presented in 
the results of each study.  
•  Differences  in  success  rates  between  9801  and  9901  that  reflected  differences  in  percentages 
assigned to the improved categories and not to any notable differences in percentages deemed to 
be  cured.  The  anomaly  seemed  likely  to  be  related  to  the  fact  that  the  population  in  9801  was 
older, more obese, had more patients with diabetes and peripheral vascular disease, had a higher 
incidence of SIRS and included more patients with MRSA compared to 9901. These features seem 
to  reflect  the  fact  that  90%  of  patients  enrolled  into  9801  came  from  the  US  and  10%  from  S. 
Africa  whereas  no  US  sites  were  involved  in  9901  and  50%  of  the  total  enrolled  came  from  S. 
Africa.  The  S.  African  patients  were  mostly  younger  and  leaner  and  more  often  presented  with 
acute trauma.  
In a multivariate analysis there was no effect of randomised treatment on the clinical cure rate and 
no treatment interactions were present with any of the other potentially prognostic factors included 
in the model. The most important factors for determination of an outcome of cure were diagnosis 
of  an  ulcer  (50%  decrease  in  the  odds  of  cure,  p<0.01)  and  the  presence  of  peripheral  vascular 
disease  (47%  decrease  in  odds  of  cure,  p<0.01).  There  was  no  treatment  effect  or  treatment  by 
28/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
geographic area interaction detected. Therefore, differences in outcomes between geographic areas 
were due to other factors, some of which are mentioned above.  
Overall,  sensitivity  analyses  adjusting  for  prognostic  factors  did  not  greatly  affect  the  estimated 
cure rates for each treatment group and therefore the conclusions drawn from the primary analyses 
are considered robust to the imbalances in some factors seen at baseline.  
• 
In both studies, success rates with daptomycin in patients >65 years appeared lower compared to 
the < 65 years age group. An analysis of the sponsor-defined clinical outcome in the pooled MITT 
population showed a lower success rate in the daptomycin group compared to comparator and that 
responses were particularly poor when the daptomycin dose was reduced.  
The issue of age and efficacy was also examined in the multivariate analysis, which demonstrated 
that  neither  age  itself  nor  the  age-by-treatment  interaction was statistically significant. Thus, the 
observed  difference  in  efficacy  between  treatment  groups  in  subjects  aged  65  and  above  would 
appear not to be due to age per se but was the result of several factors that were confounded with 
age, including the protocol advice to administer reduced doses of daptomycin in those with CLCR 
>30  ml/min.  Overall  the  CHMP  considered  that  there  was  no  need  for  dose  adjustment  in  the 
elderly  except  in  case  of  renal  insufficiency  (CrCl  <  30  ml/min).  Nonetheless  because  of  the 
limited  data  on  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  daptomycin  in  patients  aged  >  65  years  caution  is 
recommended.  In  addition  the  applicant  has  committed  to  perform  an  observational  study in the 
elderly with cSSTIs, the results of which will be provided post-authorisation. 
•  Differences between studies 9801 and 9901 regarding the investigators’ pre-assignment of patients 
to vancomycin (51% in 9801 but 22% in 9901) or semi-synthetic penicillins. Given the low rate of 
MRSA isolated, concern was raised over the possibility that vancomycin was not optimal therapy 
for  organisms  susceptible  to  many  beta-lactam  agents.  Indeed,  clinical  and  microbiological 
outcomes according to type of comparative therapy given showed a considerable disadvantage for 
those given vancomycin and a numerical disadvantage for daptomycin compared to semi-synthetic 
penicillins, which were chosen for the great majority of comparative group patients in 9901.  
Table 20 : Clinical Success (MITT Population) 
Daptomycin 
Vancomycin 
Semi-Synthetic Penicillins 
Pooled 
320/422 (76%) 
9801 
9901 
140/209 (67%) 
180/213 (85%) 
126/187 (67%) 
79/125 (63%) 
47/62 (76%) 
230/280 (82%) 
63/87 (72%) 
167/193 (87%) 
However,  when  looked  at  by  pre-randomisation  assignment  there  were  lesser  differences  between 
treatment  groups  within  the  pre-assigned  subsets.  Also,  both  studies  showed  lower  success  rates  in 
daptomycin and vancomycin groups for those pre-assigned to vancomycin compared to patients pre-
assigned to semi-synthetic penicillins. 
Table 21: Clinical Success by Pre-Randomisation Assignment (MITT Population) 
All 
Pre-Assignment: 
Vancomycin 
Pre-Assignment: 
Semi-Synthetic Penicillins 
Daptomycin  Comparator  Daptomycin  Vancomycin  Daptomycin 
Pooled 
9801a 
9901 
320/422 
(76%) 
140/209 
(67%) 
180/213 
(85%) 
356/467 
(76%) 
142/212 
(67%) 
214/255 
(84%) 
77/112 
(69%) 
43/70 
(61%) 
34/42 
(81%) 
126/187 
(67%) 
79/125 
(63%) 
47/63 
(76%) 
226/268 
(84%) 
80/97 
(82%) 
146/171 
(85%) 
Semi-Synthetic 
Penicillins 
230/280 
(82%) 
63/87 
(72%) 
167/193 
(87%) 
a.  42 patients in the MITT population in study DAP-SST-9801 who were randomised to daptomycin had 
no pre-randomisation assignment data. 
29/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The protocol dose of semi-synthetic penicillins was 4-12 g per day. However, 19% of CE patients in 
9901  and  8%  in  9801  were  treated  with 2-<4 g/day, probably because the advice to investigators to 
dose  according  to  local  standard  of  care  was  sometimes  interpreted  as  treating  with  the  locally 
approved dose regimen (i.e. 2 g in some countries). Very few (seven patients) received less than 2 g 
daily.  However,  a  comparison  of  outcomes  restricted  to  the  CE  population  pre-randomised  to  semi-
synthetic penicillins and to comparative group patients indicated similar efficacy for daptomycin and 
the chosen beta-lactam agents as shown in Table 22 below.  
Table 22 
Study 9801 
Success 
Daptomycin 
N=103 
86 (83%) 
Comparator 
N=82 
68 (83%) 
95% C.I.  
 (-11.9, 10.1) 
Cure 
62 (60%) 
41 (50%) 
(-24.2, 4.1) 
Failure 
17 (17%) 
14 (17%) 
Study 9901 
Success 
Daptomycin 
N=197 
174 (88%) 
Comparator 
N=170 
154 (91%) 
95% C.I. 
(-4.2, 8.6) 
Cure 
84 (43%) 
80 (47%) 
(-5.7, 14.5) 
Failure 
23 (12%) 
16 (9%) 
that 
showed 
the  clinical 
•  Concomitant  use  of  aztreonam/metronidazole.  A  multivariate  analysis  concluded  there  was  no 
statistical evidence that concomitant aztreonam/metronidazole affected outcome per se. However, 
success  rates  were  lower  for  the  subsets  of  patients  in  each  of  the  daptomycin  and  comparative 
therapy  groups  that  received  aztreonam  and/or  metronidazole.  The  pooled  data  for  studies  9801 
and  9901 
receive 
success 
aztreonam/metronidazole  were  64  %  in  daptomycin  arm  compared  to  69  %  in  the  comparator 
(MITT  population).  Among  patients  who  did  not  receive  these  additional  agents  the  rates  were 
80 % in daptomycin arm compared to 79 % in the comparator. The difference in outcomes appears 
to  reflect  the  fact  that  patients  who  received  concomitant  aztreonam/metronidazole  were  more 
likely to be aged ≥ 75 years, obese, diabetic and/or immunocompromised and were more likely to 
have  peripheral  vascular  disease  or  MRSA.  More  patients  in  9801  (32%  per  group)  received 
aztreonam or metronidazole than in 9901 (17% daptomycin and 22% on comparators). This seems 
to be consistent with the difference between the US patient population that predominated in 9801 
compared to the wholly non-US population enrolled into 9901. 
in  patients  who  did 
rates 
•  Enterococci: The role of enterococci in cSSTI might be viewed as dubious but isolation of these 
organisms  from  a  cSSTI  site  might  be  indicative  of  more  complex  and  chronic  infections 
compared  to  other  types  of  infections  treated.  Patients  with  enterococci  had  a  poorer  clinical 
outcome, especially if treated with daptomycin. However, in addition to the imbalance in diabetes 
(51% vs 42%) and diabetic ulcers (40% vs 18%) in the daptomycin group, more patients in this 
group  failed  for  reasons  that  were  not  related  to  efficacy  of  the  study  medication  (e.g.  under-
dosing,  died  or  discontinued  before  completing  therapy)  than  in  the  comparator  group.  The 
multivariate analysis indicated that although the presence of enterococci was associated with lower 
clinical success rates there was no difference between daptomycin and comparator. It appears that 
patients from whom enterococci were cultured had more complex or particular types of infections 
that could have influenced outcomes. In addition, they might reflect heavily contaminated wounds 
in which gram-negative organisms were also present.  
Clinical safety 
• 
Patient exposure 
30/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the data cut-off date of 1 July 2004, 1474 subjects had received daptomycin in the 23 studies, 1150 
received comparator agents and 72 received placebo.  
Table 23: Number of subjects in Cubist-sponsored studies by population in Safety Database 
Daptomycin 
253 
550 
Clin Pharm - 13 Studies 
cSSTI – 3 studies 
Placebo 
72 
0 
Active Comparator 
49 
558 
CAP – 2 studies 
Other - 5 studies 
Total 
455 
216 
1474 
0 
0 
72 
460 
83 
1150 
There  were  121  subjects  who  received  a  single  dose  of  daptomycin  in  the  clinical  pharmacology 
studies  and  32  patients  received  less  than  24  hours  treatment  in  the  clinical  studies.  However,  most 
(60%) received 7 to 14 days daptomycin and 22% received 2 to 6 days. The total doses ranged from 
<1  –  4  grams  but  the  majority  (81%)  received  4  mg/kg  once  daily.  There  were  253/1474  (17%) 
subjects and patients who did not complete planned therapy with daptomycin, with 5% discontinuing 
due to each of adverse events (AEs) or clinical failure.  
In  the  cSSTI  studies,  550/1108  patients  received  daptomycin  and  558  received  one  or  more  of  the 
comparators.  Over  85%  completed  intravenous  treatment  as  planned  while  12%  and  10%  per  group 
discontinued early with a similar pattern of reasons (3% of discontinuation were due to AEs in both 
groups). 
• 
Adverse events  
AEs  were  reported  for  790/1474  (54%)  that  received  daptomycin  and  620/1222  (51%)  treated  with 
comparators or with placebo. Incidences were lowest in the healthy volunteer studies (72/253 [28%] 
subjects on daptomycin and 40/121 [33%] in comparative groups) and highest in the small studies in 
patients with various infections and complicated medical histories.  
In  the  two  pivotal  cSSTI  studies,  there  were  841  AEs  in  280/550  (51%)  patients  treated  with 
daptomycin and 891 AEs in 293/558 (53%) in the comparator groups.  
The commonest AEs affected the gastrointestinal tract followed by AEs mapped to general disorders 
and administrative site conditions and infections and infestations. 
In  the  cSSTI  studies  there  were  slightly  higher  rates  of  creatine  phosphokinase  (CPK)  and  LFT 
abnormalities with daptomycin. The higher rate of UTI likely reflects the lack of anti-Gram-negative 
activity of daptomycin.  
31/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 24: AEs in cSSTI studies 9801 and 9901 
Adverse Event 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Constipation 
Nausea 
Diarrhoea 
Vomiting 
Dyspepsia 
General disorders 
Injection site reactions 
Fever 
Nervous system disorders 
Headache 
Insomnia 
Dizziness 
Skin/subcutaneous disorders 
Rash 
Pruritus 
Diagnostic Investigations 
Abnormal liver function tests 
Elevated CPK 
Infections 
Fungal infections 
Urinary tract infections 
Vascular disorders 
Hypotension 
Hypertension 
Renal/urinary disorders 
Renal failure 
Blood/lymphatic disorders 
Anaemia 
Respiratory disorders 
Dyspnoea 
Musculoskeletal disorders 
Limb pain 
Arthralgia 
Daptomycin 
(N=534) 
Comparator 
(N=558) 
6.2% 
5.8% 
5.2% 
3.2% 
0.9% 
5.8% 
1.9% 
5.4% 
4.5% 
2.2% 
4.3% 
2.8% 
3.0% 
2.8% 
2.6% 
2.4% 
2.4% 
1.1% 
2.2% 
2.1% 
2.1% 
1.5% 
0.9% 
6.8% 
9.5% 
4.3% 
3.8% 
2.5% 
7.7% 
2.5% 
5.4% 
5.4% 
2.0% 
3.8% 
3.8% 
1.6% 
1.8% 
3.2% 
0.5% 
1.4% 
2.0% 
2.7% 
2.3% 
1.6% 
2.0% 
2.2% 
Among the 790 that received daptomycin and reported an AE, 41% had mild AEs and 34% had AEs 
of  moderate  severity  while  24%  had at least one severe AE. These figures compare with 44%, 40% 
and 16%, respectively, in the comparative group.  
Analysis of data according to durations < 7 days, 7-14 days or > 14 days for the cSSTI studies showed 
that most types of AEs reported did not increase in frequency in either treatment group when treatment 
was  7-14 days  compared  to  <7  days.  Some  types  of  AEs  did  increase  when  either  treatment  was 
prolonged  to  14  days  but  the  increases  seen  were  not  consistently  greater  in  the  daptomycin  or 
comparative therapy groups.  
Overall,  290/1474  (20.0%)  in  the  daptomycin  group  and  229/1222  (19%)  in  the  comparative  group 
had an AE possibly or probably related to treatment. Among the populations that reported AEs, drug-
related event rates were 37% and 38%, respectively. 
The commonest type of AEs considered related affected the gastrointestinal tract (7% of patients per 
treatment group). Pseudomembraneous colitis has been recorded but data do not indicate a particular 
risk  conferred  by  daptomycin  alone.  Nausea  or  diarrhoea  (each  2%  per  group)  and  vomiting  or 
constipation (each 1% per group) predominated. There was no excess of infusion site problems with 
daptomycin on comparison with pooled data from all other agents administered. 
32/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 25: Summary of commonest AEs possibly/probably related to treatment by SOC 
Number (%) of Subjects 
Total Studies 
cSSTI 
System Organ Class 
Daptomycin 
(n = 1474) 
n (%) 
Any adverse event  
Gastrointestinal disorders 
General disorders & 
administration site conditions 
Infections & infestations 
Investigations 
Nervous system disorders 
SSTI Disorders 
290 (20) 
98 (7) 
49 (3) 
25 (2) 
94 (6) 
40 (3) 
36 (2) 
(n = 1222) 
n (%) 
Comparator  Daptomycin  Comparator 
(n = 550) 
n (%) 
99 (18%) 
37 (7%) 
22 (4%) 
(n = 558) 
n (%) 
118 (21%) 
41 (7%) 
28 (5%) 
234 (19) 
82 (7) 
43 (4) 
27 (2) 
51 (4) 
30 (2) 
32 (3) 
9 (2%) 
37 (7%) 
10 (2%) 
11 (2%) 
17 (3%) 
28 (5%) 
8 (1%) 
22 (4%) 
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In  all  clinical  studies,  death occurred in 74/1474 patients in daptomycin group (5%) versus 24/1222 
patients  in  the  comparator  groups  (2%).  However,  in  the  cSSTI  studies  there  were  8  deaths  (1.5%) 
reported for each treatment and none was considered to be related to treatment.  
Only  19  (<1%)  patients  had  possibly  or  probably  related  SAEs  (not  including  deaths),  of  which  16 
received  daptomycin.  Within  the  population  in  the  pivotal  cSSTI  studies  there  was  little  difference 
between daptomycin and comparative groups for rates of severe AEs. 
Cardiac effects  
Daptomycin-related cardiotoxicity was not observed in non-clinical studies.  
There were 41 daptomycin-treated and 29 comparator-treated patients that experienced at least one AE 
consistent  with  cardiac  rhythm  disturbance.  The  applicant  reviewed  31  cases  (28  daptomycin  and  8 
comparators)  for  possible  QT/QTc  interval  prolongation  and/or  pro-arrhythmic  potential.  Also,  39 
cases  (18  and  21  per  treatment  group)  with  other  AEs  associated  with  rhythm  disturbances  (e.g. 
tachycardia)  were  reviewed  for  possible  ventricular  events.  There  were  three  cases  potentially 
indicative of an effect on ventricular repolarisation. In all cases it would appear that the most likely 
cause  was  the  underlying  disease,  as  daptomycin  was  continued  and  the  ventricular  arrhythmia 
continued after stopping daptomycin.  
The effect of co-administration of daptomycin with drugs that interfere with calcium and/or potassium 
channels was explored. In the cSSTI studies, proportions with any cardiac AE while on a concomitant 
potassium ATPase channel antagonist were similar in the daptomycin- and comparator-treated groups 
(8  %  and  7  %).  For  those  on  concomitant  non-dihydropyridine  calcium  channel  blockers  the  most 
frequent events were supraventricular rhythm disturbances but rates per treatment group were similar 
at 6% and 7%. For those on potassium channel antagonists, no cardiac events were reported from the 
cSSTI studies in daptomycin patients. 
Overall  based  on  the  available  data,  it  is  unlikely  that  daptomycin  when  used  to  treat  patients  with 
cSSTI, is associated with a higher risk of cardiac AEs or peripheral vascular AEs nonetheless it cannot 
be ruled out a role of daptomycin given the background of other risk factors.  
Effects on skeletal muscle 
In the early studies of the 1980s, two of five healthy volunteers given daptomycin 4 mg/kg twice daily 
had  muscle  pain  and  weakness  with  rapid  elevations  in  CPK  at  day  8.  Both  had  some  degree  of 
33/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
myoglobinaemia  but  daptomycin  levels  were  within  anticipated  levels  for  healthy  volunteers, 
symptoms resolved in 3-4 days and CPK values were near/normal within a week. 
Across  all  the  later  studies  with  once  daily  dosing,  most  patients  (71%  daptomycin  and  70%  on 
comparators)  had  peak  CPK  levels  <Upper  Limit  Normal  (ULN).  There  were  12%  and  11%  in 
respective treatment groups with maximum values in the range ≥1 to <5 × ULN. However, 10 and 4 
per group had values that reached ≥ 5 to < 10 x ULN while 16/1474 (1%) in the daptomycin group and 
3/1222  (0.2%)  that  received  comparators  had  levels  that  reached  ≥  10  x  ULN.  Nevertheless,  most 
patients  with  CPK  elevations did not have muscle related events (MREs). The incidence of myalgia 
and  other  MREs  in  subjects  with  normal  CPK  or  levels  <1000  U/L)  were  slightly  higher  in  the 
daptomycin group. However, myalgia accompanied by CPK levels >10 x ULN only occurred in the 
daptomycin group. Of three subjects that fulfilled the criteria of clinically important myositis, two had 
high  daptomycin  exposures  due  to  renal  insufficiency.  One  of  these  had  a  CPK  >10,000  U/L  (from 
<100  U/L  before  hand)  and  two  developed  elevations  >10  x  ULN.  Among  those  with  CPK  values 
>1000 U/L but <10 times ULN, a single case on daptomycin had a swollen arm and was classified as 
experiencing an MRE. There was no clear pattern of temporal relationship to therapy and in several 
cases the increases in CPK were thought likely due to concomitant procedures or underlying illness.  
The data from literature, safety database and post-marketing do not suggest any additional effect on 
muscle when daptomycin is co-administered with other drugs that are recognised to induce myopathy. 
However the data are too limited to exclude such risk. 
Peak CPK values vs AUC0-inf values were compared for symptomatic (with musculoskeletal events or 
weakness)  and  asymptomatic  individuals  but  no  correlation  was  observed  between  AUC0-inf  and 
significantly  elevated  CPK  levels  (>5  ×  ULN;  i.e.  1000  U/l)  regardless  of  whether  there  were  any 
symptoms.  
Using  the  MedDRA  SMQ  plus  the  terms  asthenia,  pain  in  extremity,  muscle  atrophy  and  muscle 
tightness, there were around 80 post-marketing reports identified that contained at least one such AE. 
On  applying  the  narrow  search  terms,  10/12  reports  involved  rhabdomyolysis,  including  one  case 
reported as rhabdomyolysis and compartment syndrome. Of the 10 cases reported as rhabdomyolysis 
nine  were  known  to  have  CPK  values  >10  ×  ULN  and  the  other  had  an  elevated  CPK  but  with  no 
specific value given. No serum or urinary myoglobin findings were reported for 7/10 while two were 
positive and one was negative. Five had some indication of renal impairment, two had a normal serum 
creatinine reported and there was no information for the other three.  
Peripheral nerves 
Following the identification of peripheral nerves as a potential target organ for daptomycin toxicity in 
animal  studies,  neurological  monitoring  was  performed  during  the  early  clinical  studies.  Overall  the 
risk  of  daptomycin  induced  neuropathy  appears  to  be  very  low.  Although  rates  of  peripheral 
neuropathy and AEs that might reflect some neuropathic process have been similar in daptomycin and 
comparative groups, in some cases daptomycin might have been the cause and there has been a post-
marketing case in which the true cause of the neuropathy has not been identified.  
• 
Laboratory findings 
Most of the laboratory abnormalities reported as AEs involved raised CPK (2% daptomycin and 1% 
comparators) or raised AST or ALT (1% - 2% per treatment group). The association between these has 
already been mentioned.  
34/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Safety in special populations 
Age 
There  were  increases  in  most  AE  rates  with  age  in  both  treatment  groups  but  there  was  an  overall 
higher  total  rates  in  the  daptomycin  group  in  pooled  data  from  all  studies.  Some  specific  adverse 
events  (e.g.  related  to  system  class  cardiac,  infections  and  infestations,  metabolism  and  nutrition, 
respiratory,  thoracic  and  mediastinal)  occurred  more  commonly  in  daptomycin  group  over 
comparators. However, an analysis of AEs by age groups <65 years and ≥65 years that was restricted 
to  patients  who  received  4 mg/kg  per  day  daptomycin  vs  all  comparator  group  patients  did  not 
demonstrate  the  above  imbalances  regarding  cardiac,  respiratory  and  metabolic  AEs.  These  findings 
supported  the  assertion  that  some  of  the  excesses  of  AEs  seen  in  the  daptomycin  group  among  the 
elderly  across  all  studies  reflected  sub-optimal  therapy  of  infection  that  was,  in  many  cases,  due  to 
inappropriately cautious dose adjustments being recommended in the protocol.  
Safety  of  daptomycin  in  children  and  adolescent  populations  (<  18  years  of  age)  has  not  yet  been 
established.  
Renal insufficiency 
There was a trend for a higher incidence of AEs as renal clearance decreased although numbers with 
creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min were small. Apart from the patients with moderate renal impairment, 
this trend applied equally to daptomycin and comparator-treated patients. 
When AEs were reviewed by renal function for the cSSTI studies it was again found that apart from 
the  patients  with  moderate  renal  impairment  the  increase  in  AEs  with  decreasing  function  applied 
equally to daptomycin and comparator-treated patients. The incidence of AEs was higher in all and in 
elderly patients that had their daptomycin dose reduced and many of these were treatment failures. 
The safety issues noted in clinical studies when CrCl fell below 30 ml/min are considered to be at least 
in part related to over-cautious dose adjustment. A clear relationship between renal insufficiency and 
AUC  daptomycin  and  risk  of  raised  CPK  has  not  yet  been  demonstrated.  Overall,  there  has  been 
relatively little clinical exposure at the final agreed doses in clinical trials in the target indication. 
Obesity 
AEs  were  generally  more  common  in  obese  subjects  but  there  was  no  obvious  relationship  to 
daptomycin therapy.  
• 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Although 17% in the daptomycin group and 12% in the comparative group failed to complete study 
medication  only  5%  (67/1474)  and  3%  (36/1222),  respectively,  discontinued  due  to  AEs.  Among 
these,  a  raised  CPK  level  led  to  discontinuation  in  eight  and  four  per  treatment  group.  Within  the 
pivotal cSSTI studies, the rate of discontinuation due to AEs was the same (3%) in the two treatment 
groups  and  gastro-intestinal  tract  events  predominated.  A  Kaplan-Meier  analysis  of  the  time  to 
discontinuation due to AEs in cSSTI studies showed that over the recommended treatment duration of 
7-14 days  the  probability  of  a  patient  discontinuing  study  treatment  was  very  similar  between 
treatment groups.  
Post marketing experience 
Since  its  launch  (September  2003)  to  end  of  May  2005,  it  was  estimated  that  over  83,000  patients 
might have been exposed to daptomycin in the US or Israel. There had been 431 AEs reported in 234 
patients, including 76 reports that involved a total of 167 SAEs.  
Elevated  Transaminases:  There  had  been  32  post-marketing  reports  of  increased  ALT,  AST  or 
transaminases or abnormal liver tests and four other reports were identified in which these events were 
not  the  primary  focus  but  laboratory  data  were  provided  that  indicated  some  abnormality  of  LFTs. 
35/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After review of the case details it was clear that a relationship with daptomycin could not be ruled out 
in a substantial number of reports. A proportion of transaminase elevations were also associated with 
CPK rises and muscle symptoms in some patients. These transaminase increases were considered to be 
likely to be due to skeletal muscle effects. The majority of the transaminase elevations were of Grade 
1-3 toxicity and resolved upon discontinuation of treatment. 
Blood creatinine increase: There were 26 reports of increased blood creatinine levels, renal failure, or 
creatinine  renal  clearance  decreased.  In  half  of  the  reports  the  relationship  between  treatment  with 
daptomycin and creatinine elevations was questionable since blood creatinine later decreased despite 
continuation of daptomycin therapy or other causal factors were identified. Of 13 reports for which a 
relationship between daptomycin and increased creatinine levels could not be excluded most involved 
some  confounding  factors.  There  were  nine  cases  for  which  a  possible  association  with  daptomycin 
was concluded. 
Eosinophilia:  Ten  cases  had  been  reported  with  a  temporal  association  to  daptomycin.  Pulmonary 
eosinophilia has occurred.  
Bone marrow toxicity: There were 8 cases of thrombocytopenia reported since US launch, of which 2 
were diagnosed prior to starting daptomycin and 4 were associated with administration of heparin or 
warfarin.  In  1  case  there  was  temporal  relationship  between  discontinuation  of  daptomycin  and 
resolution  of  thrombocytopenia.  There  were  also  9  cases  of  neutropenia,  leucopenia  or  decreased 
WBC  reported.  Most  cases  involved  confounding  factors  that  could  have  contributed  to  the 
development  of  decreased  WBC  levels  such  as  pre-existing  neutropenia/low  WBC,  HIV,  systemic 
lupus erythematosus, chemotherapy or concomitant medications.  
International  normalised  ratio  (INR)  elevations:  There  have  been  some  reports  of  patients  (not  on 
anticoagulants) who had apparent elevations in INR values without evidence of bleeding in temporal 
association  with  daptomycin  therapy.  Investigation,  so  far,  have  confirmed  that  daptomycin  can 
interfere  commercially  available  reagents  used  in  determining  the  prothrombin  time  (PT)  test  in  a 
concentration-dependent  manner.  Further  studies  are  ongoing  to  further  address  this  point  and  a 
warning has been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics.  
5. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Description of the Pharmacovigilance system  
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. The company must ensure that this system is in place and functioning before 
the product is placed on the market.   
Risk Management Plan  
A risk management plan was submitted. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing have 
been  included  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics.  In  addition  the  applicant  undertook  to 
specifically review the following adverse reactions and to report them in the PSUR according to the 
normal PSUR cycle using the International birth date of 12 September 2003: 
(cid:131)  Muscle events 
(cid:131)  Changes in daptomycin susceptibility 
(cid:131)  Peripheral neuropathy and related terms 
(cid:131)  Cardiac events 
(cid:131)  Liver function abnormalities 
(cid:131)  Effects on renal function 
(cid:131)  Potential cases of drug-drug interactions due to protein binding 
(cid:131)  Bone marrow toxicity 
(cid:131)  Adverse events in patients with impaired renal function 
36/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A summary of the risk management plan for identified and potential risks associated with the use of 
daptomycin is summarised in the Table below:  
Table 26: Summary of the risk management plan 
Issue 
Pharmacovigilance Action 
Risk Minimisation Measures 
Musculoskeletal 
(cid:131)  Mechanism of action 
Warning in the SPC to: 
studies 
•  Measure plasma CPK at baseline and at regular 
intervals (at least once weekly) during therapy 
in all patients.  
•  Monitor more frequently than once weekly 
patients with CPK > 5ULN at baseline, if 
daptomycin is given 
•  Measure CPK more frequently than once 
weekly in patients who are at higher risk of 
developing myopathy. These patients include 
those with severe renal insufficiency 
(creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min) and patients 
taking other medications known to be 
associated with myopathy (e.g. HMG-CoA 
reductase inhibitors, fibrates and ciclosporin).  
•  Not administer daptomycin to patients who are 
taking other medications associated with 
myopathy unless it is considered that the 
benefit to the patient outweighs the risk. 
•  Review regularly patients while on therapy for 
any signs or symptoms that might represent 
myopathy. 
•  Have CPK levels monitored every 2 days for 
any patient that develops unexplained muscle 
pain, tenderness, weakness or cramps.  
•  Discontinue daptomycin in the presence of 
unexplained muscle symptoms if the CPK level 
reaches greater than 5 ULN. 
Patients  with  renal 
insufficiency 
(cid:131)  Clinical trial ongoing in 
Warnings in the SPC to: 
which the PK, efficacy and 
safety of daptomycin is 
evaluated in patients with 
CrCl < 50 ml/min 
(cid:131)  Observational study in the 
elderly with cSSTI, 
including patients with 
moderate/severe renal 
insufficiency to provide 
more efficacy and safety 
data in clinical setting 
Monitor response to treatment and renal function in 
all patients with some degree of renal insufficiency 
(creatinine clearance < 80 ml/min)  
For patients with creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min 
and those on haemodialysis or continuous 
ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD). 
•  To use daptomycin only if necessary  
•  To closely monitor clinical response to 
treatment and renal function 
•  To reduce Dose to 4 mg/kg administered as a 
single dose once every 48 hours  
Elderly 
(cid:131)  Observational study as 
Warning in SPC to: 
above 
(cid:131)  Collect safety data from a 
future clinical study in 
cSSTI comparing 
daptomycin to vancomycin 
(cid:131)  To exercise caution if daptomycin is given to 
such patients. 
37/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
or teicoplanin 
6.  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  active  substance  daptomycin  is  well  characterised  and  documented.  The  pharmaceutical  form 
selected, powder for concentrate for solution for infusion, is adequate taken into account the properties 
and  the  stability  of  the  drug  substance.  The  only  excipient  used  is  sodium  hydroxide  and  the 
packaging  material  is  well  documented.  The  manufacturing  process  enhances  to  obtain  reproducible 
finished product batches. Stability tests under ICH conditions indicate that the product is stable for the 
proposed shelf life.  
The quality of CUBICIN is therefore considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the 
conditions defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the benefit-risk ratio. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Daptomycin  is  a  novel  cyclic  lipopeptide  antimicrobial  agent  active  against  Gram-positive  bacteria 
only. 
Its mechanism of action is via binding followed by insertion in bacterial cell membranes resulting in 
rapid membrane depolarization and subsequent inhibition of protein, DNA and RNA synthesis. This is 
followed by bacterial cell death.  
A range of safety pharmacology testings have been conducted and there was no evidence of potential 
effects on daptomycin on cardiovascular, respiratory, renal, gastrointestinal or immune systems. 
Daptomycin presents a linear pharmacokinetics profile. It is predominantly plasma protein bound, and 
is not significantly metabolised. The majority of the administered dose is excreted via the kidney as 
unchanged. It does not induce or inhibit cytochrome P450 in the liver.  
The  toxic  effects  related  to  daptomycin  were  consistent  across  studies,  regardless  of  changes  in  the 
excipients, formulations, and manufacturing processes during various stages of drug development.  
Daptomycin administration was associated with minimal to mild degenerative/regenerative changes in 
skeletal muscle in the rat and dog, which occurred at exposure levels below human therapeutic levels. 
The myopathic effects were primarily related to time between doses and secondarily AUC, and were 
usually accompanied by elevations in CPK. No fibrosis or rhabdomyolysis was observed. All muscle 
effects,  including  microscopic  changes,  were  reversible  within  3  months  following  cessation  of 
dosing.  The  mechanism  has  not  been  fully  elucidated  but  seems  to  be  link  to  a  direct  effect  of 
daptomycin on skeletal muscle.  
Effects on peripheral nerves were observed at higher doses than those associated with skeletal muscle 
effects  in  adult  rats  and  dogs,  and  were  primarily  related  to  Cmax.  Peripheral  nerve  changes  were 
characterised  by  minimal  to  slight  axonal  degeneration  and  were  frequently  accompanied  by 
functional  changes.  Reversal  of  both  the  microscopic  and  functional  effects  was  complete  within  6 
months  post-dose.  In  the  chronic  studies,  the  no  observed  adverse  effects  level  (NOAEL)  in  animal 
studies  Cmax  values  were  <5-fold  human  values  at  the  recommended  dose.  The  mechanism  is 
unknown but the effect on skeletal muscle is independent of the effect on nerves.  
In contrast to adult dogs, juvenile appeared to be more sensitive to peripheral effects of daptomycin. 
Reproductive  toxicity  studies  showed  no  evidence  of  effects  on  fertility,  embryofoetal,  or  post-natal 
development. Nonetheless considering that daptomycin can cross the placenta of pregnant rats and in 
the absence of clinical data on pregnancies, daptomycin should not be used during pregnancy unless 
clearly  needed  as  recommended  in  the  SPC.  Similarly  in  view  of  the  lack  of  data  of  excretion  of 
daptomycin  in  milk  of  lactating  animals  and  in  human,  breastfeeding  should  be discontinued during 
treatment  as  mentioned  in  the  SPC.  Daptomycin  was  not  mutagenic  or  clastogenic.  Considering  the 
38/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
expected short duration of treatment with daptomycin (less than 6 months) the lack of carcinogenicity 
is acceptable in accordance with the current international guidelines on carcinogenicity testing. 
Clinical data 
Daptomycin has linear kinetics over a dose range up to 8 mg/kg and distributes rapidly in the plasma 
and to more highly vascularised organs. Approximately 90 % is bound to plasma proteins. It is cleared 
by the kidneys mainly as unchanged drug with minimal to no active tubular secretion of daptomycin. 
Caution is recommended when co-administered with products known to reduce renal filtration. 
Daptomycin does not undergo significant metabolism. It is not an inducer or inhibitor of CYP450 and 
the potential for pharmacokinetic interaction is low.  
Renal insufficiency is associated with reduced daptomycin clearance and increased systemic exposure. 
In  subjects  with  severe  renal  insufficiency  (CLcr<30ml/min)  and  end-stage  renal  disease,  exposure 
(AUC)  and  elimination  half  life  are  increased  between  2-3-fold  relative  to  healthy  subjects.  Dose 
interval adjustment is therefore needed. The recommendations in the SPC are based on modelling and 
have  not  been  clinically  evaluated.  Therefore,  such  patients  should  only  be  treated  if  needed  and 
clinical response to treatment and renal function should be closely monitored. In addition, although no 
adjustment  is  recommended  for  those  patients  with  creatinine  clearance  >30ml/min,  monitoring  of 
renal function and treatment effect is required due to the paucity of clinical data. No dose adjustment 
is  necessary  when  administering  daptomycin  in  patients  with  moderate  hepatic  impairment.  The 
pharmacokinetics  of  daptomycin  in  patients  with  severe  hepatic  insufficiency  (Child-Pugh  C 
classification)  have  not  been  evaluated  and  therefore  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics 
recommends caution when daptomycin is used in these patients. In the elderly, no dose adjustment is 
required unless there is severe renal insufficiency.  
Although  in  obese  and  very  obese  patients  the  systemic  exposure  increased,  no  dose  adjustment  is 
warranted.  
Daptomycin  exhibits  rapid,  concentration  dependent  bactericidal  activity  against  sensitive  Gram- 
positive organisms in vitro. In animal models AUC/MIC and Cmax/MIC correlate with efficacy and 
predicted bacterial kill in vivo at single doses equivalent to human doses of 4mg/kg once daily. 
Breakpoints  established  by  the  European  Committee  on  Antimicrobial  Susceptibility  Testing 
(EUCAST)  for  staphylococci  and  streptococci  (except  S.  pneumoniae)  are  Susceptible  <  1  mg/l  and 
Resistant  >  1  mg/l.  Resistant  pathogens  have  been  rarely  recovered  from  patients  treated  with 
CUBICIN. Emergent decreases in susceptibility have been observed with daptomycin in patients with 
difficult to treat infections and/or for prolonged periods.  
The  demonstration  of  efficacy  of  daptomycin  in  cSSTI  due  to  Gram-positive  bacteria  is  based  on  2 
investigator-blinded,  randomised,  multicentre  studies  against  vancomycin  or  semi-synthetic 
penicillins:  Study  9801  in  which  547 subjects were randomised and study 99-01 in which 571 were 
randomised. 
In study 9801 the clinical response at test of cure (cure and clinical improvement) was 140/209 (67 %) 
in the daptomycin group compared to 142/212 (67 %) in the comparator (95 % CI – 9.0; 9.0) in the 
modified-to-treat population.  
In  study  9901,  the  clinical  response  at  test  of  cure  (cure  and  clinical  improvement)  was  180/213 
(84.5%) in the daptomycin group compared to 214/255 (83.9 %) in the comparator (95 % CI – 7.2; 
6.0)  in  the  modified-to-treat  population.  The  demonstration  of  the  non-inferiority  of  daptomycin 
compared to vancomycin or semi-synthetic penicillins was supported by further subgroup analyses. 
There were no major differences between outcomes in patients with severe and non-severe infections 
who  were  treated  with  daptomycin.  Nonetheless  the limitations in the characteristics and severity of 
the infection enrolled have been reflected in the Summary of Product Characteristics: 36 % of patients 
treated  with  daptomycin  met  the  criteria  for  systemic  inflammatory  response  syndrome  (SIRS).  The 
most common type of infection treated was wound infection (38% of patients) while 21 % had major 
abscesses. There is also limited experience in treating patients with concurrent bacteraemia (less than 3 
%  of  patients  treated  with  daptomycin  for  complicated  skin  and  soft  tissues  infections  had  a 
bacteraemia) as this was an exclusion criterion for entry into the clinical trials. Therefore the use of 
39/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
daptomycin  in  such  patients  is  not  recommended  as  reflected  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics. 
There  is  insufficient  evidence  of  daptomycin’s  clinical  effect  against  Enterococcus  faecalis  and 
Enterococcus faecium. 
Safety 
In clinical trials more than 1400 subjects have received daptomycin. Overall 20 % in the daptomycin 
compared to 19 % in the comparator group had an adverse event considered to be possibly or probably 
related  to  treatment.  The  commonest  adverse  reactions  reported  with  daptomycin  were  headache, 
nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, muscle pain, fungal infections, rash, infusion site reaction, increased CPK 
and  abnormal  liver  enzymes.  As  in  preclinical  studies,  one  of  the  risks  associated  with  the  use  of 
daptomycin  is  musculoskeletal  events  and  occasionally  myopathy.  Recommendations  on  the 
monitoring  of  CPK  have  been  included  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  and  further 
investigation into the mechanism of action of the effect will be conducted. Although peripheral nerves 
have  been  identified  as  target  organs  in  toxicity  studies,  in  clinical  studies,  this  has  been  reported 
uncommonly. Nonetheless this will be specifically review and report in the PSUR: 
The  safety  database  has  been  substantiated  by  data  from  post-marketing  use  in  the  US  and  Israel 
(estimated over 83,000 patients exposed to daptomycin). All the adverse reactions reported in clinical 
trials and post-marketing have been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Overall the efficacy data were considered sufficient to support an indication for use in cSSTI due to 
Gram-positive bacteria in adults. 
Certain limitations in the data that support the efficacy of daptomycin have been reflected in the SPC. 
Based on the safety data, a number of potential risks associated with the use of daptomycin have been 
identified. A risk management plan was submitted and includes agreed pharmacovigilance activities to 
further define the safety profile post-authorisation. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, 
was of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included 
in the product information. The applicant also undertook to gather further data post-authorisation. In 
particular  the  applicant  will  provide  further  efficacy  and  safety  in  elderly  patients  and  patients  with 
renal  insufficiency  mainly  through  an  observational  study  of  cSSTI  and  a  planned  randomised 
controlled study in cSSTI. The applicant undertook to provide annually reports on the susceptibility of 
clinically  obtained  Gram-positive  isolates  to  daptomycin  in  European  medical  centres  and  to  further 
explore the mechanism of resistance.  
Safety  and  efficacy  in  children  and  adolescents  has  not  yet  been  established  but  the  applicant 
undertook  to  submit  results  of  planed  studies  as  part  of  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-
authorisation. 
Recommendation 
CUBICIN is indicated for the treatment of complicated skin and soft-tissue infections in adults (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.1 of the Summary of Product Characteristics). 
Daptomycin is active against Gram-positive bacteria only (see section 5.1 of the Summary of Product 
Characteristics).  In mixed infections where Gram-negative and/or certain types of anaerobic bacteria 
are suspected, CUBICIN should be co-administered with appropriate antibacterial agent(s). 
40/40 
©EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
