28 January 2016 
EMA/CHMP/2543/2016 
Procedure Management and Committees Support Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Cubicin  
daptomycin 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000637/P46/032 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
The present paediatric data is submitted by the MAH in accordance with article 46 of Regulation EC No 
1901/2006. 
The  applicant  has  submitted  a  Critical  Expert  Overview  to  provide  information  from  a  Phase  4 
retrospective  observational  study  (CBC134ADE03T  DECORE)  sponsored  by  Novartis.  DECORE  was 
conducted in Germany from 2010 to 2012 and included 2 paediatric patients. The purpose of this study 
was  to  collect  real  world  data  about  patients  who  received  Cubicin.  The  CSR  for  DECORE  is  provided 
with this submission.  
The  overview  also  aims  to  assess  the  impact  of  these  results  on  the  existing  information  about  the 
product in the Novartis Core Data Sheet and in the currently approved SmPC.  
About the product 
Daptomycin  is  a  cyclic  lipopeptide  natural  product  that  is  active  against  Gram  positive  bacteria  only. 
The  mechanism  of  action  involves  binding  to  bacterial  membranes  of  both  growing  and  stationary 
phase cells causing depolarisation and leading to a rapid inhibition of protein, DNA, and RNA synthesis. 
This results in bacterial cell death with negligible cell lysis. 
Daptomycin  pharmacokinetics  are  generally  linear  and  time-independent  at  doses  of  4  to  12  mg/kg 
administered  as  a  single  daily  dose  by  30-minute  intravenous  infusion  for  up  to  14  days  in  healthy 
volunteers. Steady state concentrations are achieved by the third daily dose. Daptomycin is eliminated 
primarily by the kidney. 
Cubicin was first authorised via the centralised route in 2006. 
Approved indication(s) and posology 
Indication 
Cubicin is indicated for the treatment of the following infections in adults: 
- Complicated skin and soft-tissue infections (cSSTI).  
- Right-sided infective endocarditis (RIE) due to Staphylococcus aureus.  
- Staphylococcus aureus bacteraemia (SAB) when associated with RIE or with cSSTI. 
Posology 
Adults 
- cSSTI without concurrent Staphylococcus aureus bacteraemia: Cubicin 4 mg/kg is administered once 
every 24 hours for 7-14 days or until the infection is resolved  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
EMA/CHMP/2543/2016 
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  cSSTI  with  concurrent  Staphylococcus  aureus  bacteraemia:  Cubicin  6  mg/kg  is  administered  once 
every 24 hours. The duration of therapy may  need to be longer than 14 days  in accordance with the 
perceived risk of complications in the individual patient.  
- Known or suspected right-sided infective endocarditis due to Staphylococcus aureus: Cubicin 6 mg/kg 
is  administered  once  every  24  hours.  The  duration  of  therapy  should  be  in  accordance  with  available 
official recommendations. .  
In patients with renal impairment, dose adjustment is needed. 
Paediatric population 
In  July  2015,  the  MAH  submitted  an  application  for  the  extension  of  the  indication  in  cSSTI  to 
paediatric patients (1-17 years old). The CHMP positive opinion was received on 22 October 2015 and 
the EC decision is expected within 2 months of the positive opinion. 
1.  Scientific discussion 
1.1.  Clinical aspects 
a.  Clinical Study 
This study was designed to collect data about the use of Cubicin in the real world. It was expected that 
this  study  will  provide  critical  information  about  the  administrative  patterns  for  the  use  of  Cubicin 
based  on  the  geographical  differences  in  pathogens  and  the  incidences  of  resistance  in  antibiotic 
therapy. 
The data was obtained from the German CUBICIN (Daptomycin) Outcomes Registry and Experience for 
the Treatment of Serious Gram-positive Infections.  
Study Objectives: 
Primary: 
- To evaluate the safety and tolerability of Cubicin® in the treatment of patients suffering from gram 
positive infections. 
Secondary: 
-  Documentation  of  acceptance  and  efficacy  of  therapy  using  Cubicin®  in  the  clinical  treatment  of 
patients under everyday routine practise study  
Patients were recruited for the study in multiple centres throughout the Federal Republic of Germany. 
Design and duration of the study: 
Inclusion criteria included: 
- the attending physician had already decided on the treatment of Cubicin for the patient, 
- the patient was treated with at least one dose of Cubicin, 
- the patient had been informed about the objectives of this study and had given a written consent to 
participation in this study. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
EMA/CHMP/2543/2016 
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All occurring adverse events (AE) were registered in conventional CIOMS II line listings and periodically 
sent to the drug safety department of NOVARTIS for further processing. 
Patients  were  observed  over  a  period  of  ca.  30  days  under  therapy  with  Cubicin.  This  collective 
contains completed baseline-documentations of 170 patients at 24 separate sites. 
Study population 
A  total  of  170  patients  were  involved,  out  of  which  only  two  were  paediatric  patients  (13yrs,  17yrs). 
One patient was treated for cSSTI and osteomyelitis caused by MRSA, the second patient for infection 
with Staphylococcus epidermidis. Cubicin treatment was completed and resulted in complete recovery 
of both patients. 
As  this  assessment  relates  only  to  paediatric  subjects,  no  further  comments  are  made  on  the  rest  of 
the study population. 
Results 
Efficacy 
Both paediatric subjects made a full recovery. 
Safety  
No  serious  adverse  events  or  non-serious  adverse  events  associated  with  Cubicin  treatment  were 
documented in either of the two patients. 
1.2  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The  applicant  has  submitted  the  results  on  2  paediatric  subjects  from  a  phase  4  clinical  study  in 
Germany.  The  results  from  this  small  number  of  2  paediatric  patients  from  study  CBC134ADE03T 
(DECORE) appear to be consistent for efficacy and safety with those from patients obtained in previous 
clinical  trials  with  Cubicin.  However  no  firm  conclusions  can  be  made  due  to  the  extremely  limited 
number of paediatric patients.  
On  the  basis  of  this  study,  there  is  no  change  in  the  benefit-risk  profile  of  Cubicin  for  the  existing 
indications. No changes are proposed to the Basic Prescribing information. 
2.  C overall conclusion and recommendation 
Overall conclusion 
The  benefit/risk  balance  remains  unchanged  and  positive  in  the  approved  indications  at 
present.  
The  data  provided  in  this  submission  do  not  raise  any  safety  or  efficacy  concerns  for 
daptomycin in the paediatric population.  
Based  on  these  results  the  applicant  proposes  no  amendments  to  the  Basic  Prescribing 
Information. 
No further action is considered necessary.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
EMA/CHMP/2543/2016 
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
