Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan     
Summary of risk management plan for Cufence 
(trientine) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Cufence.  The RMP details important risks 
of  Cufence,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about 
Cufence's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Cufence's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Cufence should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Cufence should be read in the context of all this information including 
the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Cufence's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Cufence is authorised for the treatment of Wilson’s disease in patients intolerant of D-Penicillamine 
therapy  (see  SmPC  for  the  full  indication).    It  contains  trientine  as the  active  substance  and  it  is 
given orally. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Cufence’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Cufence’s  EPAR, 
including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s 
webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/cufence. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Cufence, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Cufence’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  Authorised pack size – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
 
The medicine’s legal status  — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) assessment - so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
 
 
 
 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Cufence is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Cufence  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken.  Important risks 
can be regarded as identified or potential.  Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of Cufence.  Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the 
use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established 
yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.    Missing  information  refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the 
medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of 
the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
 None 
Important potential risks 
None 
Missing information 
Drug exposure during pregnancy 
Use of drug in lactation and in neonates 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Missing information: Drug exposure during pregnancy 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.6. 
PL section 2. 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical 
measures to address the risk: 
Additionally, the pregnancy should be monitored in order to detect 
possible foetal abnormality and to assess maternal serum copper 
levels throughout the pregnancy.  The dose of trientine used should 
be adjusted in order to maintain serum copper levels within the 
normal range. 
Babies born to mothers being treated with trientine should be 
monitored for serum copper and ceruloplasmin levels where 
appropriate. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Missing information: Use of drug in lactation and in neonates 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
 
 
 
SmPC section 4.6. 
PL section 2. 
Additionally, babies born to mothers being treated with trientine 
should be monitored for serum copper and ceruloplasmin levels 
where appropriate. 
It is unknown definitively whether trientine is excreted in human 
breast milk during breastfeeding.  
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
The following studies are conditions of the marketing authorisation: 
Study  Short  name:  Efficacy  and  safety  of  trientine  dihydrochloride  in  Wilson’s  disease  patients 
(UNV-TR-004) 
Purpose of the study:  
-  To  assess  the  efficacy  of  treatment  with  trientine  dihydrochloride  by  analyses  of  the  course  of 
hepatic, neurological and psychiatric disease. 
-  To  evaluate  the  pharmacokinetic  (PK)  –  pharmacodynamic  (PD)  relationship  of  a  single  dose  of 
Cufence by analysis of trientine exposure and the direct pharmacodynamic (PD) effect on Cu storage 
and metabolism parameters.  
- To evaluate dosing and titration practices based on a response-guided approach vs conventional 
treatment. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Cufence. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
