6 June 2019 
EMA/342173/2019  
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report 
Cufence (Trientine dihydrochloride) 
Treatment of Wilson’s disease 
EU/3/03/172 (EMA/OD/043/03) 
Sponsor: Univar BV 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European 
Union   
“© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
2. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
3. Grounds for the COMP opinion (at the designation stage) ....................... 4 
4. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 5 
5. COMP list of issues .................................................................................. 7 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/342173/2019 
Page 2/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substance 
Trientine dihydrochloride 
International Non-Proprietary Name 
Trientine dihydrochloride 
Orphan condition 
Pharmaceutical form 
Route of administration 
Treatment of Wilson’s disease 
Capsule 
Oral use 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group (ATC Code) 
A16AX12 
Sponsor’s details: 
Univar BV 
Schouwburgplein 30,  
3012 CL Rotterdam,  
The Netherlands  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Post-designation procedural history 
Univar Ltd  
10 September 2003  
24 October 2003 
EU/3/03/172 
Transfer of sponsorship 
Transfer from Univar Ltd to Univar BV – EC decision of 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / co-Rapporteur 
Milena Stain, Constantinos Markopoulos 
31 July 2013 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Therapeutic indication 
Univar BV  
8 February 2018 
1 March 2018 
EMA/H/C/004111 
Trientine dihydrochloride  
Treatment of Wilson’s disease in patients intolerant to 
D-penicillamine therapy, in adults, adolescents and 
children aged 5 years or older. 
Further information on Cufence can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s 
website https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/hu
CHMP opinion date 
man/EPAR/cufence 
29 May 2019 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP Rapporteurs 
A. Lorence/ D. Duarte 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
5 March 2019 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
21-23 May 2019  
questions  
Sponsor’s removal request  
Removal from the Register  
3 June 2019 
6 June 2019 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/342173/2019 
Page 3/7 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Grounds for the COMP opinion (at the designation stage) 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product designation in 2003 was 
based on the following grounds: 
•  Wilson’s disease (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to be affecting 
approximately 0.6 in 10,000 persons in the Community, at the time the application was made; 
• 
• 
the condition is chronically debilitating due to due to neurological disability, progressive hepatic 
impairment and eventually fatal course, in the absence of treatment; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
Community, justifications have been provided that trientine dihydrochloride may be of 
significant benefit to those affected by the condition. 
4.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Wilson’s disease (WD) is an inherited autosomal recessive disorder associated with a defect in copper 
metabolism that is caused by a mutation in the ATP7B gene. The defect in the ATP7B gene results in 
malfunction of the protein, the accumulation of copper in the liver, accumulation of excess copper in 
the circulation and deposition of copper in other organs. WD presents with hepatic and neurological 
manifestations, and many patients present with both.  
The approved therapeutic indication “Cufence is indicated for the treatment of Wilson’s disease in 
patients intolerant to D-Penicillamine therapy, in adults and children aged 5 years or older” falls within 
the scope of the designated orphan indication “treatment of Wilson’s disease”. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
Based on the CHMP assessment, the intention to treat the condition has been justified.  
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
The condition has been presented to the COMP to remain life-threatening and chronically debilitating.  
The initial presenting symptom may be hepatic, neurologic or psychiatric. WD is universally fatal if not 
treated. If treatment is begun early enough, symptomatic recovery is usually complete, and a life of 
normal length and quality can be expected. All patients with WD require treatment for life. Inadequate 
treatment or disruption of drug therapy may result in life-threatening complications or irreversible 
organ damage. Fulminant hepatic failure may occur if chelation therapy is inadvertently discontinued. 
In these patients, the prognosis is extremely poor, which may result in catastrophic hepatic 
decompensation and death in about 75% within 2.5 years, and sometimes as quickly as within 3 
months. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/342173/2019 
Page 4/7 
 
 
 
Patients with advanced liver failure benefit from liver transplantation (which also involves its own 
substantial risks of mortality and morbidity). In some patients the outcome would be fatal without liver 
transplantation and subsequent treatment. 
There have been no changes in the chronically debilitating or life-threatening nature of WD since the 
orphan designation of trientine dihydrochloride. The COMP concluded that condition remains chronically 
debilitating and can be life-threatening due to the toxic effects of copper, first accumulating in the liver 
and subsequently in the brain. The liver disease can present with symptoms ranging from mildly 
elevated transaminases to acute liver failure or liver cirrhosis. Around 5% of all patients are diagnosed 
only when they develop fulminant acute liver failure, sometimes fatal. 
Number of people affected or at risk 
At the time of designation the prevalence was agreed to be approximately 0.6 per 10,000. For this 
review the prevalence has been estimated to be 0.65 per 10,000.  
In the scientific literature WD is described to have an an estimated incidence of < 30 per million or 1 in 
30,000 prevalence, with a gene frequency of 0.56% and a carrier frequency of 1 in 90. No systematic 
literature search has been conducted. A detailed table with selected epidemiological literature has been 
presented (table 1). It remains unclear how valid and/or representative those figures are. 
Nevertheless, there are no reports to suggest an increase in prevalence since designation. The COMP 
accepted the figure of 0.6 per 10,000 for this review.  
Table 1.  Population-based prevalence data in Europe 
Poujois et al, 2016  France 
1.5:100000 
French national health insurance 
Coffey et al, 2013  UK 
Garcia-Villarreal, 
Spain 
2000 et al (via 
Mak & Lam, 2008) 
1:7026 
1:2600 
(3.85:10000) 
records 
Population molecular screening 
Hospital records 
Gea et al, 2013 
Andorra 
2:80000* 
Observational study of pharmacy 
database from the national hospital 
Loudianos et al, 
Sardinia 
1.4:10000 
Population molecular screening 
1999 
Reilly et al, 1993 
Republic of Ireland  3.6 per million 
Medical records. Prevalence 
calculated per census 
from ’71, ’79, ’81 & ’86. 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
There are currently four medicinal products authorised in the EU for the treatment of WD: 
•  D-Penicillamine: a chelator treatment for the urinary excretion of copper is nationally authorised in 
various EU member states. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/342173/2019 
Page 5/7 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Trientine dihydrochloride (UK): a chelator therapy authorised for the patients that are intolerant to 
penicillin. It is authorised in the UK for patients intolerant to penicillamine. 
Trientine tetrahydrochloride (Cuprior) is authorised centrally and is indicated for the treatment of 
Wilson's disease in adults, adolescents and children ≥ 5 years intolerant to D-penicillamine therapy. 
•  Zinc: is currently centrally authorised with a therapeutic indication for Treatment of Wilson’s 
disease.  
There is a current consensus European EASL clinical practice guideline for the treatment of WD (J 
Hepatol. 2012 Mar;56(3):671-85). It describes additional pharmaceutical treatments and antioxidants 
for adjunctive treatment. Liver transplantation is frequently necessary for patients presenting with 
acute liver failure or decompensated cirrhosis. 
Significant benefit 
In line with the therapeutic indication, significant benefit for Cufence needs to be demonstrated in WD 
patients intolerant to D-Penicillamine therapy, in adults and children aged 5 years or older. Taking into 
consideration the therapeutic indication of currently authorised medicinal products, it was considered 
that significant benefit needs to be demonstrated over Cuprior (trientine tetrahydrochloride) and 
trientine dihydrochoride, which is authorised in the UK. Zinc is also used in patients intolerant to D-
Penicillamin. Nevertheless, zinc is not a de-coppering agent and used for maintenance treatment in 
clinically stable WD patients with copper below toxic levels. The COMP noted that there was no need to 
demonstrate significant benefit over zinc due to the different clinical positioning of zinc in the 
consensus treatment algorithm.  
Trientine dihydrochloride (UK marketing authorisation): 
Significant benefit is claimed on the basis of a major contribution to patient care due to the assumption 
that a central marketing authorisation would allow for treatment of WD patients, who are currently 
unable to access trientine hydrochloride UK. Further evidence is required to support the proposed 
assumption, i.e. evidence demonstrating that (a) trientine dihydrochloride UK is not available to 
patients, (b) the unavailability of trientine dihydrochloride UK leads to patient harm, and (c) Cufence 
can overcome the documented patient harm.  
Cuprior (trientine tetrahydrochloride): 
Cufence contains the same active as Cuprior but in a different salt form. Significant benefit over 
Cuprior is claimed on a major contribution to patient care. It is argued that Cufence provides WD 
patients, who are adequately managed with trientine dihydrochloride, with the possibility to continue 
their treatment with Cufence on their established dose without switching to Cuprior, which is an 
alternative salt and formulation that is associated with dose corrections. Indeed, the SmPC of Cuprior 
states that “when switching a patient from another formulation trientine, caution is advised because 
doses expressed in trientine base may not be equivalent.” Nevertheless, the impact of dose corrections 
to patient care is not clear. Evidence needs to be provided (a) to outline documented difficulties in 
switching between trientine dihydrochloride (Cufence and UK authorisaiton) and trientine 
tetrahydrochloride (Cuprior), and (b) to demonstrate that Cufence can overcome the documented 
difficulties.  
In conclusion, significant benefit of Cufence over trientine dihydrochloride UK and Cuprior is argued on 
the basis of major contribution to patient care. Currently both claims remain unsubstantiated.  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/342173/2019 
Page 6/7 
 
 
 
Following the receipt of the list of issues, Cufence (trientine dihydrochloride) was withdrawn from the 
Community Register of designated orphan medicinal products on 6 June 2019 on request of the 
sponsor. 
5.  COMP list of issues 
The applicant is requested to provide evidence in support of the claims for significant benefit.  
Regarding the claims for significant benefit over Cuprior, please provide data to confirm the 
hypothetical difficulties of patients switching between trientine dihydrochloride UK and Cuprior. 
Moreover, evidence needs to be submitted to demonstrate that Cufence can overcome the documented 
difficulties. 
Regarding the claims for significant benefit over trientine (national UK authorisation), please provide 
data to demonstrate that patients are faced with substantial problems in the access to trientine UK. 
Moreover, please provide evidence that demonstrate patient harm associated with a documented lack 
of access to trientine when taking into consideration the marketing authorisation of Cuprior.  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/342173/2019 
Page 7/7 
 
 
 
