26 April 2019 
EMA/419515/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): trientine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010637/201809 
Period covered by the PSUR: 06-Mar-2018 – 05-Sep-2018 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for trientine, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows:  
A review of the published literature by Hashim & Parnell identified a third overdose case with trientine. This 
case refers to a large overdose of trientine (300 tablets, total dose 60 g of trientine dihydrochloride salt, 
equivalent to 40 g of trientine base) resulting in self-limiting dizziness during the first day and nausea and 
vomiting on day 2. All symptoms were self-limiting and resolved within 48 hours of the overdose. Due to 
the pharmacological effects of trientine, the patient had a low serum copper level and elevated urinary 
copper. There were mild biochemical abnormalities (slight decrease in serum zinc and phosphate, slight 
increase in serum creatinine) that resolved spontaneously and/or with administration of fluids. It is known 
that  there  is  no  antidote  for  trientine.  However,  whenever  available,  symptoms,  signs,  and  potential 
sequelae  of  high  doses  of  the  medicinal  product  should  be  described  in  section  4.9  to  allow  the  best 
diagnosis  and  management  of  an  overdose.  In  addition  overdose  cases  should  refer  to  the  amount  of 
trientine base to avoid confusion since the salts, dosage and pharmaceutical forms are different across the 
two  products.  The  wording  was  also  simplified  to  outline  that  up  to  20g  no  apparent  adverse  effects 
reported. Therefore, the rapporteur considers the SmPC should be updated to include this information.   
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for trientine the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing trientine is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to 
the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/419515/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
