European Medicines Agency 
Pre-Authorisation Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 25 July 2008 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/CHMP/374682/2008 
COMMITTEE FOR MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE  
SUMMARY OF POSITIVE OPINION∗ 
for  
RATIOGRASTIM 
International Non-proprietary Name (INN): filgrastim 
On 24 July 2008, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a revised 
positive  opinion,  recommending  to  grant  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  medicinal  product 
Ratiograstim,  solution  for  injection  or  infusion  (30  MIU/0.5  ml  and  48  MIU/0.8  ml)  in  a  pre-filled 
syringe  intended  for  the  treatment  of  neutropenia.  The  Applicant  for  this  medicinal  product  is 
ratiopharm GmbH. 
The  active  substance  of  Ratiograstim  is  filgrastim,  an  immunostimulating  medicinal  product 
(L03AA02)  which  regulates  the  production  and  release  of  functional  neutrophils  from  the  bone 
marrow. 
Ratiograstim is a biological medicinal product similar to the reference product Neupogen authorised in 
the EU. Studies have shown Ratiograstim to have a comparable quality, safety and efficacy profile to 
Neupogen (filgrastim). 
The  most common side  effects  are bone pain, diarrhoea, asthenia,  myalgia, arthralgia, headache and 
pyrexia. 
A pharmacovigilance plan for Ratiograstim, as for all medicinal products, will be implemented as part 
of the marketing authorisation. 
The approved indications are: 
Ratiograstim is indicated for the reduction in the duration of neutropenia and the incidence of 
febrile neutropenia in patients treated with established cytotoxic chemotherapy for malignancy 
(with the exception of chronic myeloid leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndromes) and for the 
reduction  in  the  duration  of  neutropenia  in  patients  undergoing  myeloablative  therapy 
followed  by  bone  marrow  transplantation  considered  to  be  at  increased  risk  of  prolonged 
severe  neutropenia.  The  safety  and  efficacy  of  filgrastim  are  similar  in  adults  and  children 
receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy. 
Ratiograstim is indicated for the mobilisation of peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPC). 
In patients, children or adults, with severe congenital, cyclic, or idiopathic neutropenia with an 
absolute neutrophil count (ANC) of 0.5 x 109/l, and a history of severe or recurrent infections, 
long  term  administration  of  Ratiograstim  is  indicated  to  increase  neutrophil  counts  and  to 
reduce the incidence and duration of infection-related events. 
Ratiograstim is indicated for the treatment of persistent neutropenia (ANC less than or equal 
to 1.0 x 109/l) in patients with advanced HIV infection, in order to reduce the risk of bacterial 
infections when other options to manage neutropenia are inappropriate. 
∗  
Summaries of positive opinion are published without prejudice to the Commission Decision, which will normally be 
issued within 67 days from adoption of the Opinion.  
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
Filgrastim  therapy  should  only  be  given  in  collaboration  with  an  oncology  centre  which  has 
experience in granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) treatment and haematology and has the 
necessary  diagnostic  facilities.  The  mobilisation  and  aphaeresis  procedures  should  be  performed  in 
collaboration with an oncology-haematology centre with acceptable experience in this field and where 
the monitoring of haematopoietic progenitor cells can be correctly performed. 
Detailed  recommendations  for  the  use  of  this  product  will  be  described  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics (SPC) which will be published in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) and 
will be available in all official European Union languages after the marketing authorisation has been 
granted by the European Commission. 
The  CHMP,  on  the  basis  of  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  data  submitted,  considers  that  there  is  a 
favourable  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Ratiograstim  and  therefore  recommends  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
EMEA/CHMP/374682/2008  
Page 2/2 
 
 
