European Medicines Agency 
London, 20 November 2009 
Doc. Ref: EMA/812385/2009  
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
CYMBALTA 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
duloxetine hydrochloride 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/572/II/0036 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
The active substance of Cymbalta is duloxetine hydrochloride. Duloxetine is a combined serotonin and 
noradrenaline  reuptake  inhibitor.  Cymbalta  has  been  approved  in  the  European  Union  since  14 
December 2004.  
Cymbalta is currently approved for the treatment of major depressive episodes, treatment of diabetic 
peripheral neuropathic pain in adults and treatment of generalised anxiety disorder (GAD). Duloxetine 
is also approved under the trade name Yentreve/Ariclaim for the diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain 
in adults and the treatment of stress urinary incontinence (SUI). 
Major depressive disorder (MDD) has been identified as the fourth most disabling illness in the world. 
Of  those  individuals  with  an  episode  of  MDD  it  has  been  indicated  that  41%  will  have  a  second 
episode within a year, 59% within 2 years and 74% within 5 years.  
Many  available  options  exist  for  the  treatment  of  mood  disorders.  The  treatment  of  depression  is 
commonly  divided  into  three  distinct  phases.  Specific  objectives  of  each  treatment  phase  provide  a 
strategic map for managing these patients. The acute phase begins with the initial presentation of an 
episode and is designed to elicit at least a response as determined by a clinically significant reduction 
in symptoms. This is followed by a continuation phase designed to prevent a relapse of the most recent 
episode.  Continuation  therapy  of  at  least  6  months  is  now  recommended.  Complete  symptom 
remission  can  occur  in  either  the  acute  or  continuation  phase,  and  full  recovery  is  defined  as  a 
sustained period of remission lasting several months. The final phase is maintenance treatment, which 
has  as  its  goal  the  prevention  of  a  new  acute  episode  (a  recurrence)  of  major  depressive  disorder. 
Maintenance treatment has specifically been recommended for any patient who has had three or more 
major depressive episodes in the past 5 years.  
This  Type  II  variation  was  initially  seeking  approval  for  extending  the  indication  of  duloxetine  to  
include  prevention  of  recurrence  of  major  depressive  episodes,  among  patients  with  MDD  who  had 
responded to duloxetine. The MAH proposed to amend sections 4.1, 4.2 and 5.1 of the SPC.  
2. 
Non-clinical aspects 
No new non-clinical data was submitted as part of this variation and all documentation concerning the 
new  claimed  therapeutic  indication  ‘Prevention  of  Recurrence  of  Major  Depressive  Episodes’  is 
supported by clinical data. 
An  updated  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  (ERA)  conducted  in  accordance  with  Article  8  of 
Directive 2001/83/EC as amended, was provided in this application.  
The updated ERA included a Phase I and II risk assessment. The PECsurfacewater was refined using sales 
forecasts and metabolism as allowed by the Guideline on the ERA of Medicinal Products for Human 
Use  (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00).  Physical-chemical  properties  and  fate  characteristics  indicated 
that  duloxetine  will  not  persist  or  accumulate  in  the  aqueous,  sediment  or  soil  environmental 
compartments.  This  ERA  considers  all  the  uses  of  duloxetine  including  proposed  indication  and 
assumes that the discharge of duloxetine following therapeutic use to the sewage system is the main 
route of entry into the environment. 
However, the calculations for PECwastewater and the refined PECsurfacewater could not be followed in the 
documentation,  and  the  MAH  was  asked  to  describe  the  parameters  more  in  detail.  The  PEC 
calculations were clarified by the MAH. In the recalculation of PECsurfacewater after refinement of Fpen 
the maximum daily dose should be used instead of average daily dose as used in the refinement of Fpen. 
However, the PEC/PNEC ratios will still be below 1 and 0.1.  
The  overall  conclusion  on  the  ERA  of  duloxetine  was  not  changed.  The  CHMP  agreed  with  this 
conclusion. 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
3. 
Clinical aspects 
3.1.  Clinical efficacy 
The extension of indication applied for is based on the findings from Study F1J-MC-HMDI (HMDI), 
which is the first study specifically designed to investigate the efficacy of duloxetine in the prevention 
of recurrence of depression (as defined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 
Fourth Edition, Text Revised (DSM-IV-TR)).  
HMDI  is  a  long  term,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  Phase  3  study  aimed  to  assess 
whether  the  prophylactic  treatment  with  duloxetine in  the  maintenance  phase  can  reduce  the risk  of 
depressive recurrences. Study HMDI was a  multicentre study carried out in Germany, France, Italy, 
Russia, Sweden and the US.  
No  new  information  regarding  pharmacokinetic  or  pharmacodynamic  aspects  was  provided  by  the 
MAH.    
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  of this study  was  to  assess the  efficacy  of  duloxetine  60 mg  to  120  mg  once 
daily (QD) compared with placebo in the prevention of depressive recurrences, as measured by time to 
recurrence, among patients with recurrent MDD who had responded to duloxetine during a 4- to 10-
week acute treatment period and a 24-week continuation treatment period. 
The secondary objectives of this study were: 
1.  To evaluate the efficacy of maintenance treatment with duloxetine compared with 
placebo as measured by several other efficacy outcomes  
2.  To assess the efficacy of maintenance treatment with duloxetine compared with 
placebo on quality of life and health outcome measures 
3.  To evaluate the safety and tolerability of maintenance treatment with duloxetine 
compared with placebo. 
Design and methods 
Patients with an ongoing depressive episode who responded to duloxetine treatment during an initial 
4- to 10-week open-label acute treatment period, and who continued to respond during a further 24-
week  open-label  continuation  treatment  period  were  randomised  to  duloxetine  or  placebo  for  a  52-
week double-blind maintenance phase (Figure 1).  
Figure 1. Study design 
 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Screening 
Screening 
Phase
Phase
3-9 Days
3-9 Days
No Study 
No Study 
Drug
Drug
Open-Label 
Open-Label 
Acute Therapy 
Acute Therapy 
Phase
Phase
Up to 10 
Up to 10 
Weeks
Weeks
Open-Label 
Open-Label 
Continuation 
Continuation 
Therapy 
Therapy 
Phase
Phase
22-24 Weeks
22-24 Weeks
120 mg QD
120 mg QD
120 mg QD
120 mg QD
90 mg QD
90 mg QD
90 mg QD
90 mg QD
60 mg QD
60 mg QD
Respondersa
Respondersa
60 mg QD
60 mg QD
30 mg QDb
30 mg QDb
Double-Blind 
Double-Blind 
Maintenance 
Maintenance 
Therapy 
Therapy 
Phase
Phase
52-54 Weeks
52-54 Weeks
120 mg QD
120 mg QD
90 mg QD
90 mg QD
60 mg QD
60 mg QD
Placebo
Placebo
Optional 
Optional 
Follow-
Follow-
up 
up 
Phasec
Phasec
3 Weeks
3 Weeks
Visit        1                   2  3  4 5  6  7 8 9 10 11 201 202 203 204 205 206 207 208 209 210 211 212 213 214 215 216 217 218 219 220 221 222 223 224 301 302 303
Visit        1                   2  3  4 5  6  7 8 9 10 11 201 202 203 204 205 206 207 208 209 210 211 212 213 214 215 216 217 218 219 220 221 222 223 224 301 302 303
Week      -1                  0  1  2 3  4  5 6 7  8  10  14   18   22   26 30   32   33   34   35   36   37   38   42   46   50   54   58   62   66   70   74   78   82    86
Week      -1                  0  1  2 3  4  5 6 7  8  10  14   18   22   26 30   32   33   34   35   36   37   38   42   46   50   54   58   62   66   70   74   78   82    86
Abbreviation: QD=once daily 
Randomization
Randomization
a Patients who meet response criteria during Week 4 to Week 10 moved directly to the open-label continuation therapy 
phase.  
b Patients who could not tolerate 60 mg QD may have decreased their doses to 30 mg QD during Week 1 to Week 3.  
After an initial assessment period during which patients were screened for eligibility (screening phase) 
the study consisted of the following phases: 
• Acute Phase — A 4- to-10-week acute treatment period during which all patients received open-label 
duloxetine, initially at a dose of 60 mg QD. In the event of non-response, the duloxetine 60 mg QD 
dose was to be increased to 90 mg QD at Visit 6 (Week 4), and a further dose increase to 120 mg QD 
would occur at Visit 8 (Week 6) in the event of continuing non-response. Patients meeting response 
criteria  were  eligible  to  enter the  continuation phase of  the  study;  those patients  who  failed  to  meet 
response criteria after 10 weeks of open-label treatment despite dose increases would be discontinued 
and were eligible to enter the optional follow-up phase. 
Response Criteria (all must have been met): 
• Had a 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD17) total score of ≤9, 
• Had a Clinical Global Impression-Severity (CGI-Severity) score of ≤2, 
• Did not meet the DSM-IV criteria (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 
Fourth Edition) for a major depressive episode (as assessed by the Mini International 
Neuropsychiatric Interview [MINI] depression module). 
•  Continuation  Phase  —  A  24-week,  open-label,  treatment  phase.  Patients  identified  as  having  met 
response  criteria  to  duloxetine  during  the  acute  therapy  phase  continued  on  the  same  dose  of 
duloxetine  during  the  continuation  phase  up  until  the  randomisation  visit.  Patients  and  investigators 
were blinded to the exact visit at which randomisation occurred. At the randomisation visit, patients 
who continued to meet response criteria advanced to the maintenance phase. Those patients who failed 
to meet response criteria at the randomisation visit were to be discontinued from the study.  
•  Maintenance  Phase  —  A  52-week,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  therapy  phase.  Patients  were 
randomly  assigned  to  receive  either  duloxetine  at  the  same  dose  to  which  they  had  previously 
responded  or  placebo  for  52  weeks  or  until  they  experienced  a  depressive  recurrence.  Due  to  the 
blinded  nature  of  the  randomisation  visit,  investigators  and  patients  were  informed  that  the 
maintenance phase was to be of 52 to 54 weeks’ duration. 
 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recurrence Criteria: A patient was considered to have a depressive recurrence if they met any of the 
following three criteria: 
-  Had  a  CGI-Severity  score  of  >4,  and  met  DSM-IV  criteria  for  MDD  (as  assessed  by  the  MINI 
depression module) for at least 2 weeks, or 
-  Had three consecutive visits that met re-emergence criteria (see below) or 10 total re-emergence 
visits, or 
-  Discontinued due to lack of efficacy. 
Patients identified as having a recurrence during the double-blind maintenance therapy phase had two 
options: 
-  Discontinue from the maintenance phase and participate in the optional follow-up phase, or 
-  Discontinue from the maintenance phase and the study overall and be managed at the discretion of 
the treating physician. 
Re-emergence Criteria: Significant “re-emergence” of depressive symptoms was defined as having a 
CGI-Severity score of >4, but not necessarily meeting the DSM-IV criteria for MDD as assessed by 
the MINI depression module.  
If re-emergence criteria were met, patients had weekly re-emergence visits until re-emergence criteria 
were no longer met. If a patient had three consecutive weekly re-emergence visits or a total of 10 re-
emergence  visits  throughout  the  maintenance  phase,  the  patient  was  considered  to  have  had  a 
depressive recurrence, was discontinued from the study and was eligible to enter the follow-up phase. 
•  Follow-Up  Phase  (Optional)  —  A  3-week  follow-up  phase  to  assess  discontinuation-emergent 
adverse events (DEAEs) and other safety measures, during which the patients’ dose of duloxetine was 
down-titrated in a double-blind fashion. 
In  this  trial  more  stringent  response  criteria  (a  cut-off  score  on  a  validated  scale)  were  required  for 
patients  to  be  eligible  for  maintenance  treatment  with  respect  to  that  suggested  by  the  reference 
guideline  (“NfG  on  Clinical  Investigation  of  Medicinal  Products  in  the  Treatment  of  Depression” 
CPMP/EWP/518/97,  Rev.1);  i.e  a  50%  improvement  on  the  usual  rating  scales.  The  proposed 
definition prevents from including patients (specially the severe ones) that by satisfying these criteria 
still show an excessively high HAMD17 score to be considered a true responder. 
This has probably led to an enrichment of the population with a selection of true responder patients 
(improving  internal  validity  of  the  trial),  but  may  limit  the  ability  to  extrapolate  the  results.  This, 
together with the restrictive nature of the inclusion/exclusion criteria may limit the generalisation of 
the results. 
According  to  the  above-mentioned  CHMP  Guideline,  ‘recurrence’  should  have  been  defined  in  the 
protocol based on a validated scoring. In the present study ‘recurrence’ and ‘re-emergence’ criteria are 
based  on  the  investigator-based  assessment  (CGI-Severity)  instead  of  a  patient-based  score 
(HAMD17), which would have been much more preferable.  
Although  the  patients  were  randomised  after  28-34  weeks  of  treatment,  a  considerable  number  of 
patients might still be in their index episode due to the large variability of the natural course of major 
depression. 
 5
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
•  Study Participants  
Patients were outpatients of at least 18 years of age who met DSM-IV diagnostic criteria for recurrent 
MDD and who had experienced at least three episodes of depression, including the current episode, 
within the past 5 years. Patients had to have been in remission between episodes of depression, stable 
and  off  antidepressant  medication  for  at  least  2  months  prior  to  the  onset  of  the  current  episode. 
Patients had to have a HAMD17 total score ≥18 at Visits 1 and 2, and a CGI-Severity ≥4 at Visits 1 and 
2.  
Patients were excluded from the study if they had  
- 
- 
- 
- 
any  current  Axis  I  disorder  other  than  MDD,  any  previous  psychotic  disorder,  any  anxiety 
disorder within the past year, any Axis II disorder which, in the judgement of the investigator, 
would  have  interfered  with  compliance  with  the  study  protocol  or  had  history  of  substance 
abuse or dependence within the past year 
demonstrated lack of response of the current episode of MDD to two or more antidepressant 
drugs, met criteria for treatment-resistant depression or were at serious suicidal risk 
electroconvulsive  therapy  (ECT)  or transcranial  magnetic  stimulation  (TMS)  within the  past 
year or had initiated or stopped psychotherapy within 6 weeks prior to enrolment 
serious medical illness or clinically significant laboratory abnormalities.  
The  initial  criteria  of  selection  intended  to  identify  patients  with  a  moderate  to  severe  episode  of 
depression (HAMD17 total score ≥18 and CGI-Severity ≥4) and in which the rate of major depressive 
recurrences  makes  recommendable  the  maintenance  treatment.  The  MINI,  a  standard  diagnostic 
interview based on DSM-IV criteria, was used to establish the diagnosis and exclude other psychiatric 
illnesses.   
No upper limit of age is established among the inclusion criteria. It would be expected that a group of 
elderly patients were finally included in the trial.  
•  Treatments 
During the acute phase, patients were initially assigned to open-label duloxetine 60 mg orally QD. The 
dose  was  increased  in  the  event  of  non-response  during  the  acute  phase.  During  the  continuation 
phase, patients continued to take the dose to which they had responded in the acute phase. During the 
maintenance therapy phase, patients were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio within each site to either 
duloxetine (at the dose to which they previously responded) or placebo.  
There was no dose escalation or de-escalation in the open-label continuation therapy phase or in the 
double-blind maintenance therapy phase.  
Patients unable to tolerate the assigned dosage during the maintenance phase were discontinued from 
the study. Patients must have remained on this fixed dose of study drug throughout the maintenance 
phase without any allowed dose change during this period. 
Patients  should  not  have  altered  their  courses  of  non-pharmacological  therapies  (holistic  medicine, 
psychotherapy, physical therapy, peer support groups, light or photo therapy). Patients should also not 
have started any non-pharmacological therapies during the study's duration. Patients were allowed the 
episodic use of benzodiazepines or certain hypnotics during the study. 
During the long-term period the patients received the recommended dose for the treatment of the acute 
episode. This is in line with the current recommendations.  
The  CHMP  stated  that  comparison  versus  placebo  can  be  considered  standard.  The  indication  of 
prevention  of  recurrence  is  only  authorised  for  a  limited  number  of  antidepressants.  It  is  likely 
however  that  in  clinical  practice,  the  treatment  that  showed  to  be  effective  in  the  acute  and 
continuation  phases  will,  in  general  be  used  in  the  maintenance  phase.  Therefore,  the  CHMP 
 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
concluded that virtually all available antidepressant could be a therapeutic alternative and noted that a 
third active control arm, though not necessary from a regulatory point of view, could have provided 
valuable information and improved the external validity of the results.  
•  Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy variable was time to recurrence, which was defined as the number of days from 
randomisation  to  the  visit  at  which  the  patient  met  the  recurrence  criteria  during  the  maintenance 
phase.  
The secondary efficacy variables according the secondary objectives of this study were: 
a)  To evaluate the efficacy of maintenance treatment with duloxetine compared with placebo as 
measured by: 
1.  Recurrence rates 
2.  Time to ≥50% worsening in the HAMD17 and CGI-Severity ≥3 
3.  Loss of response (HAMD17 >9 and CGI-Severity >2) at any time 
4.  HAMD17 total score 
5.  CGI-Severity scale 
6.  Patient’s Global Impressions of Improvement (PGI-Improvement) scale 
7.  Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD) subscales 
8.  Visual Analog Scale (VAS) for pain 
9.  Symptom Questionnaire-Somatic Subscale (SQ-SS). 
b)  To assess the efficacy of maintenance treatment with duloxetine compared with placebo on 
quality of life and health outcome measures, as measured by the: 
(cid:131)  Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS) 
(cid:131)  36-item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36) 
(cid:131)  Resource Utilization and Hospitalization Module. 
c)  To evaluate the safety and tolerability of maintenance treatment with duloxetine compared 
with placebo as measured by: 
(cid:131)  Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) 
(cid:131)  Vital signs 
(cid:131)  Laboratory measurements 
(cid:131)  Arizona Sexual Experience Scale (ASEX). 
•  Sample size 
In a fluoxetine recurrence-prevention study with a similar design (Gilaberte et al. 2001) the recurrence 
rates over 52 weeks for placebo- and fluoxetine-treated patients were 40% and 20%, respectively. It 
was also assumed that the time to recurrence and dropout both followed exponential distributions and 
that 25% of the patients in each treatment group would drop out by 52 weeks (1 year). Under these 
assumptions, a total of 257 randomised patients (randomly assigned with equal probability to the two 
treatment groups) were needed to have 90% power to detect 40% versus 20% recurrence rates over 52 
weeks, using a log rank test at a two-sided significance level of .05. An accrual time of 0.001 weeks 
and 50% of time until 50% accrual were used. 
It was anticipated that 70% of the patients enrolled in the acute phase of the study would respond and 
enter the continuation phase; 75% of the patients who entered the continuation phase would meet the 
randomisation criteria and would be randomly assigned. Therefore, if 490 patients were enrolled in the 
acute phase, then 257 would have been randomly assigned. 
•  Randomisation and blinding 
All patients were assigned to take duloxetine during the acute therapy phase and during the open-label 
continuation therapy phase. 
 7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  protocol,  the  length  of  the  continuation  phase  was  given  as  22  to  24  weeks  in  order  to  keep 
investigators  and  patients  blinded  as  to  the  exact  timing  of  the  randomisation  visit.  However,  the 
randomisation visit occurred 24 weeks after treatment commenced in the continuation phase, and this 
information  was  supplied  to  Investigational  Review  Boards  (IRBs)  and  regulatory  authorities  at  the 
time  of  review.  Assignment  to  treatment  groups  was  determined  by  a  computer-generated  random 
sequence using an interactive  voice response system (IVRS). All study drugs used were identical in 
colour, shape, smell, and taste. 
Results  
•  Participant flow  
A  total  of  514  patients  with  a  moderate  to  severe  episode  of  depression  and  history  of  major 
depressive  recurrences  (at least  three  episodes  within  the  past  5  years)  were  enrolled  into  the  open-
label acute  phase  of the  study.  Responder patients  (n=413;  80.5% of enrolled  participants) followed 
treatment on the same dose of duloxetine for additional open-label 24 weeks (continuation phase) and 
those subjects who were still in response at the end of the period (n=288; 56% of initially recruited 
patients) were finally randomised to duloxetine (n= 146) or placebo (n= 142) for a long-term treatment 
(52-week maintenance phase). A total of 169 patients completed the maintenance phase of the study 
(73 [51.4%] patients in the placebo group and 96 [65.8%] patients in the duloxetine group). A total of 
119 patients discontinued the double-blind maintenance phase of the study (69 [48.6%] placebo and 
50 [34.2%] duloxetine). A total of 109 patients entered the optional taper phase (61 in the duloxetine 
group and 48 in the placebo group). 
Figure 2. Patient disposition  
Regarding  the  discontinuation  of  patients  across  the  study,  the  most  common  cause  was  the  patient 
decision (n=95, 18.48% of the recruited patients) followed by adverse events (AEs) (n=65; 13.22% of 
the enrolled population), mainly during the first phases of the trial, and recurrence (n= 59; 11.47%). 
These  figures  (number  of  drop-outs  and  reasons  for  discontinuation)  are  roughly  similar  to  those 
reported during the originally submitted trials conducted with duloxetine for the authorization of short-
term treatment of depression.  
 8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH made efforts to minimise the effect of randomisation as a trigger element of an excessive 
number  of drop  outs.  Patients  were  not  aware  of  the precise  moment  of  randomisation,  and the  real 
assignment took place up to 2 weeks after the expected date. Whereas this procedure can reduce the 
patient  and  physician  concerns  of  having  been  moved  to  placebo  it  does  not  prevent  the  risk  of 
relapsing  (e.g.  potential  “slow  responder”  patients)  if  the  short-term  treatment  would  have  been 
insufficiently long to achieve a complete response. In fact 29% of the discontinuation occurred in the 
placebo group in the maintenance phase and took place 8-16 weeks after randomisation, mainly due to 
recurrences. This cast doubts about the, at least partially, relapsing (instead of recurrence) prevention 
nature of the trial.  
In an effort to address the debate around the clear delineation of an episode as a new recurrence rather 
than a relapse of the initial episode, Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. conducted a number of post-hoc analyses 
with  patients  most  clearly  “between  episodes”  and  out  of  the  index  episode  (i.e.  those  in  sustained 
remission  throughout  the  continuation  phase)  to  clarify  the  nature  of  the  recurrence  episodes.   
The latter subset of patients showed clear evidence of efficacy. As it could be foreseen, the difference 
between  placebo  and  active  treatment  increased  over  time  in  this  subgroup.  Therefore,  a  long-term 
benefit could be reasonably expected in those patients who achieved remission during the depressive 
episode, and it should be reflected in the product information accordingly.  
As  noted  by  the  CHMP,  and  as  expected,  most  benefit  was  derived  by  those  patients  with  a 
maintenance  phase  baseline  HAMD17  score  <7.  Based  on  these  findings,  the  MAH  agreed  with  the 
CHMP  recommendation  that  it  is  important  to  clarify  for  prescribers  that  patients  who  respond  to 
treatment initially are more likely to continue to respond in the long-term. 
The CHMP considered the issue resolved provided that this information is reflected in the SPC. 
•  Baseline data 
Most  patients  were  female  (69.8%)  and  most  patients  were  Caucasian  (98.1%).  The  average  age  of 
patients  was  47.6  years  and  the  ages  ranged  from  18  to  79.  Approximately  2/3  of  patients  were 
enrolled in EU countries. The mean HAMD17 score was 23.07 and the mean CGI-Severity score was 
4.49 at baseline. The average age at the first episode of depression was 33 years of age. The average 
duration  of  the  current  depressive  episode  was  approximately  4  months  and  the  average  number  of 
previous depressive episodes was 4.22. 
The  CHMP  stated  that  the  population  initially  enrolled  in  the  study  may  be  considered  as 
representative  for  the  target  moderately  depressive  population.  The  patients  randomised  in  the 
maintenance  phase  of  the  study  presented  similar  characteristics.  The  average  duration  of  the  last 
episode was about 25 and 30 weeks in the placebo and duloxetine group, respectively. 
The  minimum  and/or  maximum  values  for  some  of  the  characteristics  of  past  and  current  episodes 
indicate that a number of odd patients have been included (e.g. duration of current episode 72 months, 
number of previous episodes 71, time interval between episodes 0 months). The MAH was asked to 
clarify the issue. Following the responses from the MAH, the CHMP agreed that the odd values seem 
to  be  the  result  of  some  clerical  errors  and  they  did  not  have  any  impact  on  the  results  or  the 
conclusions.  
A  total  of  430  (83.7%)  out  of  the  514  recruited  patients  had  previously  received  one  or  more  drug 
treatment  for  depression,  whereas  16.3%  (n=84)  had  never  been  treated.  Apparently  there  were  no 
patients previously treated with duloxetine. Patients that finally entered the maintenance phase showed 
similar figures (previously treated: placebo arm 86.6%; duloxetine arm 83.6%; naïve patients: placebo 
arm 13.4%, duloxetine arm 16.4%). A total of 354 patients (68.9%) were recruited in the EU, and 160 
were enrolled in Russia and the US.  
 9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Numbers analysed 
Efficacy  analyses  were  performed  in  each  phase  of  the  study:  acute  therapy  (4  to  10  weeks), 
continuation  therapy  (24  weeks),  and  double-blind  maintenance  therapy  (52  weeks).  All  288 
randomised  patients  (146  duloxetine,  142  placebo)  in  the  double-blind  maintenance  therapy  phase 
were included in the primary efficacy analysis. 
A  surprisingly  lower  rate  of  compliance  (defined  as  the  patient  had  taken  between  80  and  120%  of 
capsules prescribed) was observed by the CHMP in the duloxetine arm (72%) during the double-blind 
period with respect to placebo (84.5%) and to previous phases (>83%). Two-fold duloxetine patients 
(n=41) compared to placebo (n=21) appeared to have been non-compliant. Only 9 out of these 62 non-
compliant patients finally figured as discontinued due to a protocol violation without any alternative 
explanation of the remaining 53 subjects. As the number and imbalance of the figures could have a 
potential impact on the results, the MAH was requested to provide further clarification. 
Further to this request, the MAH detailed the extent of non-compliance among the 62 non-compliant 
patients. Most of the non-compliance reported was due to a single visit deviation. This was foreseen in 
the protocol and it did not drive the patients to discontinue. The analyses performed by the MAH on 
the  remaining  cases  did  not  reveal  a  relevant  impact  on  the  results.  Taking  this  information  into 
account, the CHMP considered the issue resolved. 
•  Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint 
Time to a depressive recurrence was significantly longer in patients treated with duloxetine compared 
with patients treated with placebo (p<.001). 
Duloxetine  started  to  separate  from  placebo  after  day  28,  which  corresponds  to  the  time  at  which 
duloxetine  tapering  to  placebo  was  complete.  The  separation  of  duloxetine  from  placebo  increased 
over time until day 280. The persistent separation of duloxetine from placebo supports the long-term 
effect of duloxetine in preventing recurrence of depression on continued treatment. 
The efficacy results for the analysis of time to recurrence are significant (p<.001) for the log-rank test, 
as well as the log-rank test controlling for country and the log-rank test controlling for investigator.  
Furthermore, the investigator by treatment interaction term is not significant, indicating that, relative 
to  placebo,  duloxetine  prolongs  time  to  recurrence  even  after  adjustment  for  potential  country  or 
investigator effects. 
Secondary endpoints 
- Recurrence Rate: There was a significant difference between treatment groups in the recurrence rate 
at  anytime  during  the  maintenance  therapy  phase  of  the  study  (p<.001).  Over  the  course  of  the  52-
week  study  68  new  depressive  episodes  were  recorded,  33.1%  in  the  placebo  group  and  14.4%  in 
patients receiving duloxetine.  
With respect to the criteria of recurrence 51 (75%) episodes (35 in the placebo patients and 16 in the 
duloxetine  group)  fulfilled  CGI/DSM-IV  criteria  (patients  satisfied  DSM-IV  criteria  for  MDD  as 
assessed by the MINI and CGI-Severity Score ≥ 4). In a total of 17 (25%) episodes (12 in the placebo 
group and 5 in the duloxetine group) the qualifier was the discontinuation of the patients due to lack of 
efficacy. None of the recurrences satisfied the re-emergence criteria (3 consecutive visits or a total of 
10 visits where CGI-Severity score ≥ 4 and does not satisfy DSM-IV criteria as assessed by the MINI).   
Time-to-event analysis showed that at each time point, the recurrence rate was always higher in the 
placebo  group  than  in  the  duloxetine  group,  though  differences  appear  to  keep  constant  beyond  3 
months. However, patients discontinuing prior to a potential recurrence seemed to have been censored 
at the time of discontinuation.  
 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When an alternative analysis counting all discontinuing patients as failures was presented on request, a 
statistically significant difference was still shown. Nevertheless, the difference between duloxetine and 
placebo became less pronounced. 
The CHMP stated that, in line with CHMP Guideline requirements, a pre established cut-off value of a 
validated  scale  would  have  been  preferable  as  key  (more  objective  and  patient-based)  method  of 
assignment of recurrence.  
- Loss of Response: There was a significant difference between treatment groups in the proportion of 
patients meeting criteria for loss of response at any time during the maintenance therapy phase of the 
study (46.5% for patients randomised to placebo versus 30.1% for patients randomised to duloxetine; 
p=.003). 
- HAMD17 Total Score, CGI-Severity Score, VAS for Pain, and SQ-SS - Mean Changes from Baseline 
to Endpoint: There was a significant difference between treatment groups in change in HAMD17 total 
score and in CGI-Severity score during the maintenance therapy phase of the study (p<.001).  
There  was  no  significant  difference  between  treatment  groups  in  mean  change  from  baseline  to 
endpoint on the VAS for overall pain. There were no significant differences between treatment groups 
for mean changes from baseline to endpoint for SQ-SS.  
- PGI-Improvement: There was a significant difference between treatment groups in PGI-Improvement 
means at endpoint during the maintenance therapy phase of the study (p<.001). 
Results of the repeated measures analyses at the final visit were consistent with the last-observation-
carried-forward (LOCF) analyses. 
In general, secondary outcome measures support the results of the primary analysis.  
Health Outcomes/Quality-of-Life Evaluation 
- Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS): There was a significant difference between treatment groups in the 
mean change from baseline to endpoint during the maintenance therapy phase of the study in the SDS 
global score (p=.029), SDS – work/school item (p=.022), and SDS – family life/home responsibilities 
item (p=.021). 
- 36-item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36): There was a statistically significant difference between 
treatment groups in the SF-36 mean changes from baseline to endpoint during the maintenance therapy 
phase of the study for the mental component summary (p=.002), for role limitations due to physical 
problems  (p=.029),  for  role  limitations  due  to  emotional  problems  (p=.003),  and  for  mental  health 
(p=.001). 
•  Dose 
Patients who continued on the duloxetine dose of 60, 90 or 120 mg QD to which they had responded 
during  the  open-label  acute  and  the  continued  phase  of  Study  HMDI  appeared  to  have  comparable 
recurrence  rates  during  the  double-blind  maintenance  phase  irrespective  of  dose  (recurrence  rate  at 
dose of 60 mg QD was 12.5% (8 of 64 patients); recurrence rate at dose of 90 mg QD was 15.6% (7 of 
45 patients); recurrence rate at dose of 120 mg QD was 16.2 % (6 of 37 patients)).  
Patients  in  the  open-label  24-week  continuation  phase  also  appeared  to  have  comparable  response 
rates  irrespective  of  dose  (response  rates  at  dose  of  60  mg  QD  was  70.9%  (124  of  175  patients); 
response rate at dose of 90 mg QD was 68.0% (87 of 128 patients); response rate at dose of 120 mg 
QD was 70.0 % (77 of 110 patients)).  
Based on this analysis the MAH considered that there are no significant differences among the doses 
to support the selection of a specific one. The CHMP agreed with this approach. 
 11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the MAH proposed to update section 4.2 of the SPC to reflect that higher doses can be 
taken  once  daily,  in  line  with  the  recently  approved  posology  for  the  generalized  anxiety  disorder 
(GAD) indication. Indeed, in Study HMDI, similarly to many of the more recent duloxetine studies, 
doses were administered as 60, 90 or 120 mg once daily, with all doses showing similar safety profiles 
compared to earlier studies in which the highest doses were administered as 60mg twice daily. This 
proposal was endorsed by the CHMP. 
•  Analysis of Time to Depressive Recurrence by Subgroup 
In the subgroups of age, gender, origin (race), number of previous episodes of depression, number of 
previous drugs used to treat depression, and baseline HAMD17, no statistically significant treatment-
by-subgroup interactions were observed.  
The within-strata comparisons of time to depressive recurrence across treatment groups using log-rank 
test showed statistical superiority of duloxetine over placebo for the larger stratum in all subgroups. 
Derived from this subgroup analysis the MAH stated that there is no evidence of inconsistency in the 
main  measure  of  efficacy  (time  to  recurrence)  according  to  age,  sex,  race  determinants  or  some 
relevant features of the condition. Admittedly, no clear sign of lack of efficacy can be concluded from 
it but it seems to be rather due to the low size (and imbalance) of some categories. 
The MAH was requested to discuss the lack of efficacy when deterioration was defined as HAMD ≥ 
18  (i.e.  deterioration  defined  based  on  objective  and  depression  specific  criteria).  Although  efficacy 
was demonstrated for patients with HAMD ≥ 15, there are doubts about the rationale for the post-hoc 
choice  of  cut-off  point.  The  concern  was  that  various  cut-off  points  were  examined  and  only  the 
significant one (i.e. HAMD≥15) was presented.  
Further to this request, the MAH explained that the use of two post-hoc cut-off values for the HAMD17 
was  based  on  external  guidance  (HAMD17  ≥18  from  the  CHMP  and  HAMD17  ≥15  from  an 
independent  clinical  expert).  However,  both  analyses  were  presented  in  full  and  using  both  cut-off 
values  the  duloxetine-treated  patients  had  a  significantly  longer  time  to  depressive  recurrence 
compared with placebo, the primary outcome of the study. Recurrence rate was lower for duloxetine 
versus placebo using both HAMD cut-off values and in the case of HAMD17 ≥15 this was statistically 
significant. 
The  clarifications  provided  by  the  MAH  with  respect  to  the  selection  of  cut-off  values  used  for 
definition of deterioration were considered satisfactory by the CHMP.  
Overall conclusions on clinical efficacy 
Study  HMDI  forms  the  basis  to  support  the  efficacy  of  duloxetine  in  the  prevention  of  depressive 
recurrences. The main reasons for discontinuation of patients along the study were the patient decision 
(18.5% of the recruited patients) followed by AEs (13%) and recurrence (11.5%).  
Recurrence  criteria  were  mainly  driven  by  physician-based  criteria  (CGI-Severity  score  ≥  4  with  or 
without  satisfying  DSM-IV  criteria  for  MDD).  Most  of  the  recurrences  causing  discontinuation 
satisfied both criteria. It should be remarked that a validated scale (more objective and patient-based) 
method of assignment of recurrence would have been preferable. Lack of efficacy was also considered 
as additional criterion, and it was fulfilled by 25% of patients who experienced a recurrence episode.  
The  MAH  has  made  efforts  to  minimise  the  effect  of  randomisation  as  a  trigger  element  of  an 
excessive number of drop outs. Patients were not aware of the precise moment of randomisation, and 
the real assignment took place up to 2 weeks after the expected date. Whereas this procedure could 
reduce the patient and physician concerns of having been moved to placebo it does not prevent the risk 
of  relapsing  if  the  short-term  treatment  would  have  been  insufficiently  long  to  achieve  a  complete 
response.  As  explained  earlier,  29%  of  the  discontinuation  occurred  in  the  placebo  group  in  the 
maintenance phase and took place 8-16 weeks after randomisation, mainly due to recurrences, and this 
casts doubts about the, at least partially, relapsing (instead of recurrence) prevention nature of the trial.  
 12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Complementary  secondary  measurements  (such  as  reduction  in  HAMD17  total  score,  CGI-Severity 
score or PGI-Improvement) support the results of the primary analysis. 
It is noticeable that the relevant differences in terms of recurrences were established between days 50 
to  100  post-randomisation.  After  that  point  little  benefit  seems  to  be  added,  both  arms  behaving 
similarly. Whether these findings support the concerns about the true recurrence nature of the trial or 
raise additional doubts on the real long-term effect of duloxetine deserve further discussion. A third 
arm (active control) could have provided a valuable reference on this issue.  
The short duration of the trial (1-year maintenance treatment, when longer duration would have been 
preferable  as  being  closer  to  clinical  practice  and  regulatory  recommendations)  does  not  allow 
elucidating if some additional gain can be further expected.   
There were additional issues of relevance in the analysis and interpretation of the results. First, the fact 
that twice as many duloxetine patients compared to placebo appeared to have been non compliant. The 
MAH  created  a  protocol  to  deal  with  these  circumstances  but  some  discrepancies  were  observed 
between  non  compliant  patients  and  the  rate  of  discontinuation  derived  from  this  reason  during  the 
maintenance period.  
As requested by the CHMP, the MAH conducted several post-hoc analyses to identify the true nature 
of  the  recurrence  episodes.  In  general  these  new  results  showed  a  similar  trend  to  that  originally 
described in the primary analysis; however some of these results cast doubts about the robustness of 
the primary analysis:  
- 
- 
- 
the  potential  confounding  factor  of  discontinuation  symptoms  after  randomisation  on  early 
recurrence has been reasonably excluded  
a  reduced  magnitude  of  the  difference  between  placebo  and  duloxetine  is  revealed  when 
recurrence episodes were analysed according to the baseline severity of the index episode  
likely duloxetine showed to be less efficacious in the prevention of recurrences in the subgroup 
of patients in which response to duloxetine was not optimal. The potential dilution of the effect 
in more moderate responders to the acute episode also raises additional concerns. 
The subset analyses of patient fulfilling different remission criteria did not solve the question whether 
recurrence or relapse prevention had been demonstrated. Since the patients are on treatment, remission 
might be due to treatment rather than a “true” remission. The crucial issue remained: the duration of an 
MDD  episode  is  very  variable  with  a  mean  of  about  6  months  and  in  the  pivotal  study  the  mean 
duration of the most recent previous episode was about 25 to 30 weeks. Thus, it is most likely that a 
substantial part of the patients were still in their index episode at the time of randomisation, and the 
study  cannot  discriminate  between  recurrence  and  relapse  prevention.  An  appropriate  design  to 
demonstrate  recurrence  prevention  would  have  been  to  study  patients  with  a  known  propensity  of 
recurrence  and  randomise  when  they  have  been  in  remission  and  off  treatment  for  a  certain  time 
period. 
The data originally provided by the MAH showed that the recurrence rate did not evenly distribute in 
time,  with  most  occurring  between  50  to  100  days.  The  long  term  benefit  of  the  preventive  effect 
beyond three months of treatment appeared doubtful. These survival curves behaviour were replicated 
in  most  of  post-hoc  analysed  now  submitted,  contrary  to  other  antidepressants,  where  the  curves 
diverge over the course of the study. Only when patients on sustained response or functional remission 
at  randomisation  were  considered  this  progressive  separation  could  be  observed.  This  subgroup 
represents less than 60% of the primary subset which could jeopardise the extrapolability of this post-
hoc analysis. 
 13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.2.  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
All 514 patients enrolled in the acute therapy phase of the study were included in the safety analyses. 
The mean duration of exposure was 39.81 days for patients in the acute therapy phase and 154.44 days 
for patients in the continuation therapy phase. The mean duration of exposure was higher for patients 
randomised  to  duloxetine  than  patients  randomised  to  placebo  during  the  maintenance  phase  of  the 
study. 
The 260 patients treated ≥ 6 months (171 with duloxetine) and 125 patients treated ≥12 months (68 
with  duloxetine)  provided  a  long-term  safety  database.  Although  it  could  be  considered  insufficient 
itself  to  support  a  chronic  indication,  the  long-term  safety  characterisation  of  duloxetine  was  also 
sustained  by  the  safety  data  from  the  already  approved  use  in  the  treatment  of  major  depressive 
episodes. This database comprises a total of 2418 patients studied over the course of both acute and 
open label long-term treatment (52 weeks), and further 533 patients exposed to 60mg QD duloxetine 
in the relapse prevention study HMBC (for 26 weeks). Similarly, the use in other indications could add 
valuable information to the general profile of the drug.  
An indeterminate subgroup of elderly patients was included in the study submitted with this procedure 
(where only the number of patients older than 55 years is available). Apart from the issue of efficacy, 
the analysis in the elderly is also relevant from the safety perspective.  
Adverse events (AE) 
A total of 67.9% duloxetine patients reported at least one Treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) 
during  the  open-label  acute  therapy  phase.  The  most  frequently  occurring  TEAEs  during  the  open-
label  acute  therapy  phase  included  nausea  (29.2%),  headache  (15.4%),  dry  mouth  (14.8%),  and 
hyperhidrosis (14.8%). 
A total of 59.1% duloxetine patients reported at least one TEAE during the open-label continuation 
therapy phase. The most frequently occurring TEAEs during the open-label continuation phase of the 
study included headache (9.4%), nasopharyngitis (6.3%) and hyperhidrosis (6.1%). 
A  total  of  62.7%  of  placebo-treated  patients  and  61.0%  of  duloxetine  –treated  patients  (p=.809) 
reported  an  AE  during  the  double-blind  maintenance  phase  of  the  study.  The  most  frequently 
occurring TEAEs during the maintenance phase of the study (occurring in >5% of duloxetine patients) 
included  back  pain  (8.9%  duloxetine  and  4.9%  placebo),  headache  (8.9%  duloxetine  and  7.7% 
placebo),  and  fatigue  (5.5%  duloxetine  and  2.8%  placebo).  No  TEAEs  were  reported  statistically 
significantly more frequently in one treatment group or the other during the maintenance phase. 
During the taper phase of the study, a total of 8.3% placebo and 23.0% duloxetine patients (p=.067) 
reported at least one discontinuation-emergent AE (DEAE). 
 14
 
 
 
 
 
 
In general, the safety profile in the long term treatment can be considered similar to that described in 
the  short-term  administration.  After  several  weeks  of  treatment  a  lower  incidence  is  observed 
(tolerance phenomena) compared to the initially reported AE rate.  
Discontinuation 
A total of 86 out of 514 patients discontinued due to AE, remarkably in the early weeks of the study. 
During the 4- to 10-week acute therapy phase of the study, 34 (6.6%) patients in the duloxetine group 
60-120 mg QD discontinued the study due to an AE. During the 24-week continuation therapy phase 
of the study, 25 (6.1%) patients in the duloxetine group 60-120 mg QD discontinued the study due to 
an AE. During the 52-week maintenance phase of the study, 3 (2.1%) of patients in the placebo group 
and  6 (4.1%)  patients  in  the  duloxetine  group  60-120  mg  QD  discontinued the study  due  to  an  AE. 
There were no significant differences between patients in the placebo group vs duloxetine for patients 
who discontinued due to an AE (p=.501).  
The most frequently reported AEs reported as reasons for discontinuation were nausea (1.6% during 
the acute therapy phase and 0.2% during the continuation therapy phase) and vomiting (1.0% during 
the acute therapy phase and 0.2% during the continuation therapy phase). 
Deaths 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
• 
One patient died during the open-label acute therapy phase of the study. This was a 27-year-old male 
patient who committed suicide 28 days after receiving the first dose of study drug (duloxetine 60 mg 
QD).  The  patient  had  a  history  of  depression/mental  disorders  since  1996,  but  no  prior  history  of 
suicide  acts,  ideation  or  gestures.  He  was  not  on  concomitant  medication  during  the  study  period. 
Death was not considered related to study treatment by the investigator. 
According to the information stated in the SPC of duloxetine, suicide or suicide-related events could 
be expectable among the safety events of the drug. In addition to the above described complete suicide 
two other patients reported suicide attempts along the first 36 weeks of the trial (1 during the acute 
phase,  1  during  the  continuation  phase).  The  assessment  of  suicidal  behaviour  associated  with 
duloxetine is comprised in the Risk Management Plan as an identified risk under monitoring.  
 15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Serious adverse events (SAEs) 
During the 4- to 10-week acute therapy phase of the study, 6 (1.2%) patients in the duloxetine group 
60-120 mg QD experienced at least one SAE. During the 24-week continuation therapy phase of the 
study, 13 (3.1%) patients in the duloxetine group 60-120 mg QD experienced at least one SAE. During 
the 52-week maintenance phase of the study, 4 (2.8%) of patients in the placebo group and 7 (4.8%) 
patients in the duloxetine group 60-120 mg QD (p=.541) experienced at least one SAE. There was no 
trend or pattern in the SAEs. 
Chemistry Analytes 
Laboratory findings 
• 
The  most  frequently  occurring  abnormal  laboratory  values  during  the  acute  therapy  phase  included 
high creatine phosphokinase (CPK, 31 [7.2%]), high ALT (26 patients [6.1%]), and high cholesterol 
(25 patients [5.7%]). 
The  most  frequently  occurring  abnormal  laboratory  values  during  the  continuation  therapy  phase 
included high CPK (33 patients [9.5%]) and low bilirubin, (27 patients [7.1%]). 
The  most  frequently  occurring  abnormal  laboratory  values  during  the  maintenance  therapy  phase 
included high ALT (14 [13%] placebo and 19 [16%] duloxetine) and high CPK (17 [16%] placebo and 
16  [14%]  duloxetine).  There  was  a  significant  difference  between  treatment  groups  during  the 
maintenance therapy phase of the study for abnormal laboratory values for high total bilirubin (3.88% 
placebo and 0% duloxetine; p=.025). 
Two  patients  discontinued  the  study  due  to  abnormal  laboratory  values.  During  the  acute  therapy 
phase of the study, one patient discontinued due to thrombocytopenia. During the maintenance phase 
of  the  study,  one  patient,  who  was  randomised  to  duloxetine,  discontinued  the  study  due  to  hepatic 
enzymes increased. 
This  study  provides  new  data  on  long-term  comparison  versus  placebo,  although  the  number  of 
exposed  patients  was  limited.  In  principle  the  laboratory  abnormalities  observed  have  already  been 
described for other approved indications and no new safety signal is raised. 
Vital signs, weight and electrocardiogram 
• 
There were no significant differences between treatment groups during the maintenance therapy phase 
of the study for mean change from baseline to endpoint in vital signs (pulse, systolic blood pressure, 
diastolic blood pressure, or weight). 
During the continuation phase of the study, one patient discontinued the study due to hypertension and 
one  patient  discontinued  the  study  due  to  weight  increased.  During  the  maintenance  phase  of  the 
study, one patient, who was randomised to duloxetine, discontinued the study due to blood pressure 
increased. 
Electrocardiograms 
There  was  a  significant  difference  between  placebo  and  duloxetine  treatment  in  mean  change  from 
baseline to  endpoint  for  heart  rate  during  the  maintenance therapy  phase  of the study  (p<.001). The 
mean change from baseline to endpoint was a decrease of 5.24 bpm for patients randomised to placebo 
and an increase of 0.42 bpm for patients randomised to duloxetine. 
There  was  a  significant  difference  between  placebo  and  duloxetine  treatment  for  the  mean  change 
from baseline to endpoint for PR interval during the maintenance therapy phase of the study (p=.030). 
The mean change from baseline to endpoint was an increase of 3.55 msec for patients randomised to 
placebo and an increase of 0.12 msec for patients randomised to duloxetine. 
There was no significant difference between treatment groups for the mean change from baseline to 
endpoint for QRS interval during the maintenance phase of the study. 
 16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There  was  a  significant  difference  between  placebo  and  duloxetine  treatment  for  the  mean  change 
from baseline to endpoint for QT interval during the maintenance therapy phase of the study (p=.004). 
The mean change from baseline to endpoint was an increase of 11.57 msec for patients randomised to 
placebo and an increase of 2.57 msec for patients randomised to duloxetine. 
Although  there  were  significant  differences  between  treatment  groups  in  the  mean  change  from 
baseline  to  endpoint  for  ECG  variables,  the  mean  changes  were  small  and  were  not  considered 
clinically relevant. 
The persistent increase in systolic blood pressure was expected from the pharmacological actions and 
previous  clinical  experiences  of  duloxetine  and  do  not  warrant  any  changes  to  the  current  safety 
information in the SPC. However, the CHMP was of the view that the significant differences in ECG 
values between the duloxetine and placebo groups during the maintenance phase of the study HDMI 
should  be  presented  by  using  Friedericia’s  correction  formula  before  any  conclusion could  be  made 
regarding  the  effect  on  QT.  Furthermore,  the  CHMP  requested  that  the  table  be  completed  by 
including the SD, P25, P50 and P75 for all parameters.  
Using Fridericia’s correction (QTcF), there was no statistically significant difference between placebo- 
and duloxetine-treated patients with respect to mean change in QT interval (p =.985). 
Results from analysis of QT interval, including Fridericia’s and Bazette’s corrections, were included 
in the HMDI clinical study report initially submitted. The CHMP concluded that there were no safety 
concerns remaining and considered the issue to be solved. 
Special population – elderly 
Only 55 patients ≥ 65 years (26 on duloxetine 60 mg, 17 on duloxetine 90 mg and 12 patients on 120 
mg)  were  enrolled  in  the  study,  14  of  which  were  treated  with  duloxetine  during  the  52-week 
maintenance  phase.  According  to  the  data  recorded,  the  safety  profile  in  the  elderly  population 
(including SIADH or dizziness-related AEs) does not seem distinctly worse than in the adult group. 
The paucity of AEs reported due to the small size of this age subgroup does not allow reaching any 
sound conclusion in this respect.  
Regarding  safety  in  the  elderly,  the  MAH  was  requested  to  discuss  RMP  strategies  to  monitor  the 
safety of use such as specific review in PSURs. The CHMP stated that in particular the incidence of 
dizziness, falls and fractures should be monitored as the RMP estimates that the incident of postural 
hypotension in the elderly is between 20-50%.  
Further to this request from the CHMP, Lilly proposed to include a review of safety in the elderly in 
the next PSUR 9 (submission due 1st October 2009). Previous PSURs contained a review of data in 
the  elderly  population,  but  the  incidence  of  events  was  compared  to  the  full  dataset  (i.e.  both  non-
elderly and elderly groups) rather than just the non-elderly population. In PSUR 9, Lilly proposed to 
separate elderly and non-elderly groups to specifically compare case count and frequency of reactions 
for elderly compared to non-elderly. Incidence of dizziness, falls, fractures and postural hypotension 
will be examined by inclusion as specific terms. The CHMP agreed with this proposal. RMP v.5 was 
reviewed  together  with  PSURs  7  and  8,  submitted  in  parallel.  An  RMP  which  is  due  for  an  update 
around December 2009 will also be updated with the above-mentioned information. 
Arizona Sexual Experience (ASEX) Scale 
During  the  study  effects  upon  sexual  parameters  were  examined  using  the  ASEX  scale.  During  the 
maintenance therapy phase, there were no significant differences between duloxetine and placebo for 
any  ASEX  scale  items  in  terms  of  means  at  baseline,  endpoint,  or  in  the  change  from  baseline  to 
endpoint. 
 17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Overall conclusions on clinical safety 
The  260  patients  treated  ≥  6  months  (171  with  duloxetine)  and  125  patients  treated  ≥12  months  
(68 with duloxetine) provide a long-term safety database. Although it could be considered insufficient 
in  itself  to  support  a  chronic  indication,  the  long-term  safety  characterisation  of  duloxetine  is  also 
sustained  by  the  safety  data  from  the  already  approved  use  in  the  treatment  of  major  depressive 
episodes. This database comprises a total of 2418 patients studied over the course of both acute and 
open label long-term treatment (52 weeks), and further 533 patients exposed to 60mg QD duloxetine 
in the relapse prevention study HMBC (for 26 weeks). Similarly, the use in other indications could add 
valuable information to the general profile of the drug.  
The safety profile in the long term treatment can be considered similar to that described in the short-
term administration. No new safety signal is raised. After several weeks of treatment a lower incidence 
of adverse events is observed (tolerance phenomena) compared to those initially reported.  
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The  RMP  5  has  been  reviewed  together  with  PSURs  7  and  8,  which  were  submitted  in  parallel.  
In general, the safety profile in the long term treatment can be considered similar to that described in 
the short-term administration. 
The MAH committed to performing the studies and additional pharmacovigilance activities detailed in 
the  Pharmacovigilance  Plan,  as  agreed  in  version  5  of  the  Risk  Management  Plan  (RMP)  and  any 
subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the CHMP. 
As per the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems for medicinal products for human use, the 
updated  RMP  should  be  submitted  at  the  same  time  as  the  next  Periodic  Safety  Update  Report 
(PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted 
•  When  new  information  is  received  that  may  impact  on  the  current  Safety  Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
•  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached 
•  At the request of the EMEA 
Proposed  changes  to  the  Product  Information  (new  information  in  bold  underlined,  deleted 
information in strikethrough) 
SPC 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment of major depressive episodes  disorder. 
Treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain in adults. 
Treatment of generalised anxiety disorder. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
[…] 
Therapeutic response is usually seen after 2-4 weeks of treatment.  
After consolidation of the antidepressive response, it is recommended to continue treatment for several 
months,  in  order  to  avoid  relapse.  In  patients  responding  to  duloxetine,  and  with  a  history  of 
repeated  episodes  of   major  depression,  further  long-term  treatment  at  a  dose  of  60 to  120 
mg/day could be considered. 
[…] 
 18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
[...] 
In  a  relapse  prevention  study,  patients  responding  to  12-weeks  of  acute  treatment  with  open-label 
Cymbalta  60 mg  once  daily  were  randomised to  either  Cymbalta  60 mg  once  daily  or  placebo  for a 
further  6-months.  Cymbalta  60 mg  once  daily  demonstrated  a  statistically  significant  superiority 
compared to placebo (p=0.004) on the primary outcome measure, the prevention of depressive relapse, 
as measured by time to relapse. The incidence of relapse during the 6-months double-blind follow-up 
period was 17% and 29% for duloxetine and placebo, respectively. 
During 52 weeks of placebo-controlled double blind treatment, duloxetine-treated patients with 
recurrent MDD had a significantly longer symptom free period (p<.001) compared with patients 
randomized  to  placebo. All  patients  had  previously  responded  to  duloxetine  during  open-label 
duloxetine  treatment  (28  to  34  weeks)  at  a  dose  of  60  to  120  mg/day. During  the  52-week 
placebo-controlled  double  blind  treatment  phase  14.4%  of  the  duloxetine-treated  patients  and 
33.1%  of  the  placebo-treated  patients  experience  a  return  of  their  depressive  symptoms 
(p<.001). 
[...] 
Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1 of the SPC were updated to reflect the new approved indication.  
The CHMP agreed with the MAH that no updates to the Package Leaflet were needed. 
5. 
Benefit risk assessment 
In the treatment of major depressive episodes (MDE), the efficacy of duloxetine at doses of 60 mg/day 
to  120  mg/day  has  been  demonstrated  in  a  number  of  large-scale,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled 
clinical studies. Duloxetine has also been shown to be effective in the prevention of depressive relapse 
at a dose of 60 mg QD.  
The currently approved indication therefore states “Treatment of major depressive episodes”. In order 
to specifically assess whether treatment with duloxetine following an initial response would reduce the 
risk of depressive recurrences, the present Study HMDI utilised a 52-week double-blind maintenance 
therapy period to compare the time to recurrence for duloxetine treated patients with that of placebo 
treated patients.  
However,  it  can  be  questioned  whether  the  study  has  an  appropriate  design  for  studying  recurrence 
prevention.  Patients  were  initially  treated  for  an  acute  episode  of  major  depression  and  randomised 
after 28-34 weeks of treatment. The natural course of major depression is known to be very variable 
and  for  the  patients  in  study  HMDI  the  average  duration  of  the  last  episode  prior  to  inclusion  was 
about  25  and  30  weeks  in  the  placebo  and  duloxetine  group,  respectively.  Thus  part  of  the  patients 
might  have  been  in  their  index  episode  at  the  time  of  randomisation,  and  it  is  not  possible  to  say 
whether deterioration after randomisation is due to a relapse of the index episode or a recurrence.  
Further clarifications provided by the MAH in order to identify the nature of the remissions and the 
qualification of recurrences suggest that patients properly responding to the acute treatment phase with 
duloxetine would obtain greater benefit from the long-term treatment than patients being switched to 
placebo.  This  population  in  which  an  effect  of  long-term  treatment  has  been  robustly  demonstrated 
should be the one to be reflected in the product information accordingly. 
The  safety  profile  of  duloxetine in the long  term  treatment  of  depressive  patients  can  be considered 
similar to that described in the short-term administration. No new safety signals have been raised.  
 19
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment of major depressive episode refers to the acute treatment of a depression episode. In relation 
to  the  indication,  long-term  treatment  of  depressive  disorder,  as  a  wider  concept,  is  accepted  rather 
than the treatment of a specific episode. In order to reflect the outcome of the study, and taking into 
account the above-mentioned information, the CHMP agreed that the indication should be modified to 
read ‘treatment of major depressive disorder’. 
 20
 
 
 
 
