SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Eli Lilly Netherlands B.V. has submitted a Marketing Authorisation Application through the 
Centralised Procedure, for the medicinal product CYMBALTA, containing duloxetine hydrochloride, 
for the treatment of major depressive episodes. 
This is a complete and independent marketing authorisation application, as stated in Art. 8 (3) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended. The provided data cover all aspects of the clinical characterization 
of safety and efficacy of duloxetine. The Applicant has submitted the results of non-clinical and 
clinical studies carried out for the application. 
Major  Depressive  disorder  is  reported  to  be  the  most  common  mood  disorder,  with  a  lifetime 
prevalence  of  about  15%  and  as  high  as  25%  in  women.  Despite  the  availability  of  effective 
treatments, many persons with depressive disorders are disabled, and risk of suicide is considerable. It 
tends to be chronic and both relapse and recurrence are seen frequently.  
The  diagnosis  of  major  depression  is  based  primarily  on  the  Diagnostic  and  Statistical  Manual  of 
Mental  Disorders,  Fourth  Edition  (DSM-IV)  criteria.  The  criteria  state  that  at  least  five  of  the 
following  symptoms  must  be  present  during  the  same  period  to  receive  a  diagnosis  of  major 
depression: depressed mood, markedly diminished interest or pleasure in almost all activities (one of 
these 
insomnia/hypersomnia, 
psychomotor  agitation/retardation,  fatigue,  feelings  of  worthlessness  (guilt),  impaired  concentration 
and recurrent thoughts of death or suicide (American Psychiatric Association, 1994). The symptoms 
should be present most of the day, nearly daily, for a minimum of two weeks. 
two  must  be  present  necessary),  significant  weight 
loss/gain, 
A  number  of  options  are  currently  available  for  the  treatment  of  MDD,  including  psychological 
therapies  such  as  cognitive  behavioural  therapy  and  psychoanalytic  psychotherapy,  antidepressant 
medications, and electro-convulsive therapy.  
Initial treatment objectives in the treatment of depression include: 
1)  Symptom remission (acute phase)  
2)  Prevention of a relapse (continuation phase) 
3)  Prevention  of  recurrences,  or  new  episodes  in  patients  with  recurrent  depressions 
(maintenance phase). 
For  the  acute  phase  treatment,  according  to  literature  a  minimum  of  6,  and  preferably  8  weeks  of 
treatment  is  necessary  to  determine  the  full  extent  of  symptom  reduction  attainable,  although  most 
patients would show a partial response during the initial weeks of treatment. Accordingly, the CPMP 
“Note for Guidance on Clinical Investigation of Medicinal Products in the Treatment of Depression” 
establishes as acceptable a duration of 8 to 12 weeks for the first period of treatment in clinical trials. 
The  continuation  phase  of treatment, which  purpose is to  prevent deterioration of the index episode 
(relapse),  is  usually  set  at  about  6  months,  to  correspond  to  the  average  duration  of  an  episode  of 
depression.  In  clinical  practice  this  may  change  according  to  patient  characteristics  (duration  and 
number of prior episodes...). 
Maintenance  phase  of  treatment  aims  at  preventing  new  episodes  (recurrence).  This  phase  of 
treatment is appropriate for patients with three or more episodes of depression, and could last several 
years. This part of treatment is not compulsory for registration unless specifically claimed, according 
to the CPMP “Note for Guidance on Clinical Investigation of Medicinal Products in the Treatment of 
Depression”. 
The  presumed  mechanism  of  action  of  the  majority  of  antidepressants  in  the  treatment  of  MDD  is 
thought  to  be  via  inhibition  of  neuronal  reuptake  of  monoamines  (mainly  serotonin  and 
1/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
norepinephrine),  with  a  resultant  increase  in  monoamine  neurotransmission  in  the  central  nervous 
system (CNS). 
The major classes of drugs used to treat depression are the tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), selective 
serotonin  reuptake  inhibitors  (SSRIs,  e.g.,  fluoxetine  and  sertraline),  heterocyclics  (e.g.,  bupropion), 
monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors, and a few other compounds such as venlafaxine, which inhibits 
specifically the reuptake of both serotonin and norepinephrine. No single antidepressant medication is 
clearly  more  effective  than  another  and  no  single  medication  results  in  remission  for  all  patients.  In 
many occasions the choice of the medication is made looking at the side effect profile. 
The cyclic antidepressants are less commonly used as first-line antidepressants with the development 
of the SSRIs and other newer antidepressants. This is mainly due to the less benign side-effect profile 
of  the  cyclic  antidepressants.  These  drugs  interact  with  a  wide  variety  of  brain  receptor  types, 
providing the basis for both their antidepressant efficacy and their side-effect profiles. At therapeutic 
doses,  the  cyclic  antidepressants  tend  to  have  dose-related  side  effects  such  as  anticholinergic  and 
orthostatic  effects,  as  well  as  sedation,  weight  gain,  and  sexual  dysfunction.  Overdose  of  cyclic 
antidepressants  can  cause  potentially  lethal  arrhythmias,  anticholinergic  toxicity  and  seizures. 
Nevertheless,  many  patients  use  these  drugs  safely,  and  their  antidepressant  efficacy  equals  that  of 
antidepressants from other classes. 
The selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) all share the property of blocking the action of the 
presynaptic  serotonin  reuptake  pump,  thereby  increasing  the  amount  of  serotonin  available  in  the 
synapse and increasing postsynaptic serotonin receptor occupancy. As the side-effect profile is better 
than  the  TCAs  they  have  become  widely  used  in  clinical  practice,  especially  in  mild  to  moderate 
depression.  Jitteriness,  restlessness,  agitation,  headache,  gastrointestinal  symptoms  (diarrhea  and 
nausea),  and  insomnia  are  common  side  effects  with  SSRIs.  A  significant  percentage  of  patients 
develop  sexual  side  effects  after  several  weeks  or  months  of  SSRI  therapy,  especially  a  decreased 
ability to have an orgasm. 
MAO inhibitors still have a role in the treatment of depression. However, they are not used as first line 
drugs because of their potential to precipitate enhanced sympathetic activity and severe hypertension 
with  the  concomitant  ingestion  of  tyramine  containing  foods  (e.g.,  fermented  cheeses,  beer, 
champagne,  some  other  wines,  soy  sauce,  avocados,  bananas,  overripe  or  spoiled  food,  and  any 
fermented,  smoked,  or  aged  fish  or  meat).  The  hypertensive  reaction  is  dose-dependent  and  can  be 
exacerbated if the patient is also taking a sympathomimetic drug. 
Venlafaxine  is  a  relatively  recent  developed  treatment.  It  is  a  potent  inhibitor  of  serotonin  and 
norepinephrine  reuptake,  and  a  mild  inhibitor  of  dopamine  reuptake.  It  has  some  similarities  to  the 
TCAs  in  its  effects  upon  neurotransmitter  systems.  However,  in  contrast  to  the  TCAs,  it  has  no 
interactions  with  histaminic,  muscarinic,  or  adrenergic  receptors  and  therefore  tends  to  have  a  more 
benign  side-effect  profile.  The  most  common  side  effects  of  venlafaxine  are  nausea,  dizziness, 
insomnia,  sedation,  and  constipation.  It  can  also  induce  sweating  in  some  patients.  Dose-related 
sustained hypertension has been reported, which can be significant in some patients 
Duloxetine is classified as a serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI).  
The claimed mechanism of action of Duloxetine is based on the specific inhibition of both serotonin 
and norepinephrine reuptake, while it weakly inhibits dopamine reuptake and has no significant 
affinity for histaminergic, dopaminergic, cholinergic or adrenergic receptors. 
CYMBALTA 30 and 60 mg capsules contain enteric-coated pellets of the active substance duloxetine 
hydrochloride (+)-(S)-N-methyl-γ-(1-naphthalenyloxy)-2-thiophenepropanamine hydrochloride) 
equivalent to 30 and 60 mg of duloxetine.  
The  recommended  posology  is  60  mg  once  daily  with  or  without  food.  Dosages  above  60  mg  once 
daily, up to a maximum dose of 120 mg per day can be uptritated in evenly divided doses. Based on 
this posology, a combined package leaflet including both strengths has been adopted. 
Duloxetine has been already approved for the treatment of Stress Urinary Incontinence (SUI) 
2/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  development  programme  of  duloxetine  was  initiated  in  the  mid-1980s.  The  toxicology  and 
toxicokinetic studies were performed in accordance with Good Laboratory Practise (GLP) regulations 
and,  except  for  the  oldest  studies,  met  Organisation  of  Economic  Cooperation  and  Development 
(OECD) and Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare (MHLW) standards. Applicable ICH 
and CPMP guidance documents were also referred to during the development of the compound. 
All clinical studies with duloxetine have been conducted in accordance with GCP and agreed ethical 
principles. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
2. 
Introduction 
The product is presented in the form of hard gastro-resistant capsules containing enteric-coated pellets, 
and it contains duloxetine hydrochloride equivalent to 30 mg and 60 mg of duloxetine base as active 
substance.  Other  ingredients  are  sucrose,  hydroxypropyl  methylcellulose,  sugar,  talc,  gelatine, 
colorants, etc. 
The 
Polychlorotrifluoroethylene (PCTFE) blisters sealed with an aluminium foil. 
(PVC),  Polyethylene 
in  Polyvinylchloride 
packaged 
capsules 
(PE), 
and 
are 
Active Substance  
Duloxetine hydrochloride is an active substance not described in any Pharmacopoeia. 
Duloxetine  hydrochloride  which  has  the  chemical  name  (+)-(S)-N-methyl-γ-(1-naphthalenyloxy)-2-
thiophenepropanamine  hydrochloride  is  a  white  to  practically  white  solid,  and  is  slightly  soluble  in 
water; its solubility is not pH dependent. 
The  chemical  structure  of  duloxetine  hydrochloride  is  well  characterised.  It  is  an  optically  active 
molecule,  which  presents  1  asymmetric  carbon,  therefore  two  enantiomers  are  possible.  The  S 
enantiomer has been selected based on both in vitro and in vivo studies. The optical purity of the drug 
substance  is  controlled  by  selecting  the  correct  chiral  starting  materials.  According  to  the 
manufacturing  process  described,  the  S-enantiomer  is  routinely  obtained  and  the  R-enantiomer  is 
considered as a specified impurity. 
•  Manufacture 
Duloxetine hydrochloride is synthesized by two manufacturing process. Both processes are equivalent. 
Batch analysis data provided allow for the conclusion that the analytical profiles are similar between 
batches.  
Adequate In-Process Controls are applied during the manufacture of duloxetine active substance. The 
specifications  and  control  methods  for  intermediate  products,  starting  materials  and  reagents,  have 
been presented and are satisfactory. 
•  Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for physical characterisitics of the active substance , 
identity, assay , process and product related impurities, as well as additional pharmacopoeia testing 
requirements consistent with this active drug substance. 
The specifications reflect all relevant quality attributes of the active substance and were found to be 
adequate to control the quality of the drug substance.  
Batch analysis data of a number of batches of active substance are provided. The results are within the 
specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
•  Stability 
Stability studies for primary batches (manufactured by one of two alternative processes) from storage 
under long term ICH conditions (30°C/60%RH) up to 24 months and under stress conditions (40ºC / 
75%  RH)  up  to  6  months  were  provided.  Supportive  data  was  provided  in  terms  of  data  from  six 
batches manufactured by the same process as for the primary batches and for six batches manufactured 
3/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
by the second process. The batches were packed in a linear low-density polyethylene liner (LLDPE) 
placed inside a laminated foil liner. The parameters  evaluated were stability indicating. Methods are 
validated and stability indicating.  
The  re-test  period  proposed  is  acceptable  taking  into  account  the  results  obtained  in  formal  stability 
studies and the supportive stability data. 
Finished Product  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Duloxetine  hydrochloride  is  an  acid-labile  substance,  therefore,  the  product  development  has  been 
focus to develop an enteric-coated dosage form in order to prevent degradation of the active substance 
in  the  acidic  environment  of  the  stomach.  Hard  gastro-resistant  capsules  with  enteric-coated  pellets 
were selected after development of some prototype formulations to be the optimal market formulation. 
The  excipients  in  the  capsule  content  are:  hypromellose,  hydroxypropyl  methylcellulose  acetate 
succinate sugar spheres, sucrose, talc, ammonium hydroxide, triethyl citrate, and titanium dioxide (E 
170)  and  in  the  capsule  shell  are:  gelatin,  sodium  lauryl  sulfate,  colorants  and  ink.  All  of  them  are 
included in compendial monographs.  
Analytical  certificates  of  excipients  are  included.  Specifications  and  analytical  certificates  for  the 
capsules and the printing ink cover are presented. 
TSE certificates of suitability for gelatin included in capsule shell are presented. 
(PE),  and 
Duloxetine  capsules  are  packaged 
Polychlorotrifluoroethylene  (PCTFE)  blisters  sealed  with  an  aluminum  foil.  The  choice  of  materials 
for  the  container  is  adequate  to  the  type  of  product  and  moreover  supported  by  the  stability  studies 
performed.  
(PVC),  Polyethylene 
in  Polyvinylchloride 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The product is manufactured in accordance with conventional processes for this pharmaceutical form.  
The manufacturing process has been adequately validated by a number of studies for the major steps 
of the manufacturing process in three batches produced for stability studies and clinical trials. 
The batch analysis data show that the hard capsules can be manufactured reproducibly according to 
the agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of this oral preparation. 
•  Product Specification 
The specification includes tests by validated methods for physical appearance, identity, assay product 
and process impurities, as well as additional pharmacopoeia testing requirements consistent with this 
dosage form  
The test and limits of the release and shelf life specification for the finished product are appropriate to 
control the quality of this medicinal product for the intended purpose. 
Batch data are provided for pilot and production batches and indicate satisfactory uniformity as well as 
compliance with the specification. 
•  Stability of the Product 
36  months  data  generated  under  ICH  conditions  are  presented  in  the  primary  stability  study.  The 
parameters evaluated were stability indicating. A supplementary stability study was also conducted to 
address the effect of the capsule shell colours in stability. 
Photostability testing was conducted according to the ICH guideline for photostability testing of new 
active substances and medicinal products. The results indicate that the drug substance in the capsule 
formulation is chemically stable with respect to light. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SPC 
are acceptable. 
4/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  have 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  consistency  and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the 
product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Introduction 
Duloxetine is a combined serotonin (5-HT) and norepinephrine (NE) reuptake inhibitor (SNRI), which 
weakly  inhibits  dopamine  reuptake  and  has  no  significant  affinity  for  histaminergic,  dopaminergic, 
cholinergic  or  adrenergic  receptors.  The  proposed  indication  for  duloxetine  is  major  depression 
disorder(MDD).  
general 
recognised 
Duloxetine contains a formulation in the form of capsules for oral administration, containing enteric-
coated pellets of duloxetine hydrochloride, designed to prevent degradation of the drug in the acidic 
environment of the stomach (delayed-release formulation). The excipients included in the formulation 
of 
are 
hydroxypropylmethylcellulose  acetate  succinate  (HPMCAS),  and  are  widely  used 
in  oral 
pharmaceutical preparations.  
Studies  carried  out  to  assess  general  pharmacodynamics  and  toxicology  of  hydroxypropyl 
methylcellulose acetate succinate indicate that it is poorly absorbed and is excreted predominantly in 
the  faeces,  with  no  significant  toxic  effects  and  therefore,  does  not  appear  to  pose  a  toxicological 
liability as an enteric coating for duloxetine capsule.  
compounds,  with 
exception 
(GRAS) 
safe 
the 
as 
The  Applicant  has  submitted  extensive  documentation  concerning  nonclinical  pharmacology  and 
toxicology of duloxetine, as well as for related substances and impurities, and excipients included in 
the formulation. The initial development of duloxetine involved the maleate salt, but later experiments 
utilised the hydrochloride salt, which is the proposed salt for marketing. 
The development programme of duloxetine was long, with initial toxicology studies being conducted 
in  the  mid-1980s.  The  first  directive  concerning  the  application  of  the  Good  Laboratory  Practices 
(GLPs)  in  non-clinical  studies  carried  out  with  chemical  and  pharmaceutical  products  dates  1987 
(87/18/EEC)  and  therefore,  several  non-clinical  studies  were  not  carried  out  specifically  under  GLP 
standards. Studies previously conducted included in this dossier were carried out following previously 
established analytic procedures, with an extensively description of the material and methods used, and 
reviewed by the scientific committee where these studies were published, that guarantee their quality. 
The rest of the studies were performed in accordance with Good Laboratory Practise standards. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
 A  range  of  pharmacodynamic  studies  was  performed  with  duloxetine  concerning  primary 
pharmacodynamics.  Duloxetine  is  a  combined  serotonin  (5-HT)  and  norepinephrine  (NE)  reuptake 
inhibitor  (SNRI).  Reuptake  by  nerve  endings  is  thought  to  be  a  primary  mechanism  for  removing 
monoamines  from  the  synapse  and  terminating  their  effects  at  pre-  and  post-synaptic  receptors. 
Therefore,  blockade  of  reuptake  may  increase  synaptic  levels  of  monoamines  and  enhance 
monoaminergic neurotransmission.  
• 
In vitro studies  
In vitro, duloxetine inhibits the uptake of 5-HT and NE.  It weakly inhibits dopamine reuptake and has 
no  significant  affinity  for  histaminergic,  dopaminergic,  cholinergic  or  adrenergic  receptors. 
Furthermore, duloxetine has relatively weak affinity in vitro for other neuronal receptors and binding 
5/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sites. None of the various hydroxy-substituted compounds had appreciable affinity for the 5-HT, NE 
and  dopamine transporters. The  R  (-) enantiomer of  duloxetine,  was  also  a  potent inhibitor  of 5-HT 
and NE reuptake. 
Studies  evaluating  the  pharmacodynamic  potential  of  the  possible  metabolites  and/or  degradation 
products of duloxetine were performed. The 5- and 6-hydroxy analogues of duloxetine had relatively 
high affinity for human 5-HT and NE transporters in vitro with Ki values ranging from 1 to 18.4 nM. 
The  6-Hydroxy-5-methoxy  duloxetine  metabolite  had  high  affinity  for  human  5-HT  transporters, 
whereas 5-hydroxy-6-methoxy duloxetine and the dihydrodiol isomers had low affinity for 5-HT and 
NE transporters. The 4-, 5-, and 6-hydroxy analogs of duloxetine, the dihydrodiol isomers, 5-hydroxy-
6-methoxy duloxetine, 6-hydroxy-5-methoxy duloxetine and the conjugated compounds did not have 
appreciable affinity for neuronal receptors. 
Conjugates  of  the  various  hydroxy-substituted compounds  had  greatly reduced affinity for the  5-HT 
and  NE  transporters.  None  of  the  compounds  had  appreciable  affinity  for  human  dopamine 
transporters. 
• 
In vivo studies  
As  previously  discussed,  the  effectiveness  of  duloxetine  in  the  treatment  of  MDD  is  linked  to  its 
inhibition  of  presynaptic  neuron  reuptake  of  serotonin  and  norepinephrine  in  the  central  nervous 
system,  resulting  in  elevated  levels  of  serotonin  and  norepinephrine  in  the  synaptic  cleft,  enhancing 
monoaminergic neurotransmission. 
No  specific  animal  models  for  MDD  are  available.  Hence,  the  in  vivo  pharmacodynamic  studies 
provide  indirect  evidence  for  the  potential  clinical  efficacy  of  duloxetine.  However,  a  forced 
swimming  test,  a  behavioural  test  in  rodents,  is  thought  to  predict  the  clinical  activity  of 
antidepressants. 
Duloxetine  was  investigated  in  several  animal  models  measuring  activities  in  noradrenergic  and 
serotonergic  neural  systems  and  in  ‘animal  models’  for  depression.  Duloxetine’s  activity  in  the 
behavioural  assays  indicates  enhancement  of  5-HT  and  NE  neurotransmission,  and  activity  in 
antidepressant  models  were  in  general  agreement  with  the  values  obtained  for  blockade  of  ex  vivo 
binding  and  increases  in  extracellular  monoamines.  Furthermore,  it  was  investigated  whether 
duloxetine produced an anticholinergic action. 
Duloxetine dose-dependently reduced tetrabenazine-induced ptosis in mice (ED50 of 4.0 mg/kg) and in 
rats  (ED50  of  14.0  mg/kg).  Reserpine-induced  hypothermia  was  significantly  reduced  by  duloxetine 
with  an  ED50  of  12.1  mg/kg.  When  duloxetine  (12.5-100  mg/kg  p.o.)  and  5-hydroxytryptophan  (80 
and 100 mg/kg i.p.) were administered simultaneously to mice and rats, head movement behaviour and 
tremor  were  observed.  Duloxetine  (ED50  of  27.6  mg/kg)  reduced  the  immobility  in  the  forced 
swimming  test  in  mice.  A  dose-dependent  (10-40  mg/kg)  reduction  in  immobility  by  increasing  the 
frequency  of  climbing  behaviour  was  observed  in  the  forced  swimming  test  in  rats.  A  weak 
anticholinergic action was demonstrated at 25-50 mg/kg of duloxetine but not at 100 and 200 mg/kg. 
• 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Duloxetine  demonstrated  activity  in  nonclinical  models  of  pain  and  effects  on  lower  urinary  tract 
function,  as  a  consequence  of  its  mechanism  of  action,  via  an  enhancement  of  serotonin  and 
norepinephrine  neurotransmission.  Duloxetine  suppressed  food  consumption  in  mice  and  rats,  and 
suppressed alcohol consumption in selectively inbred high-alcohol-drinking rats, in a dose dependent 
manner. 
•  Safety pharmacology 
The  potential  of  duloxetine  to  alter  cardiovascular,  central  nervous  system  (CNS),  smooth  muscle, 
renal, immune, and gastrointestinal motility functions, as well as its potential for substance abuse was 
examined as part of the safety pharmacology dossier provided by the Applicant. 
6/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cardiovascular  effects:  in  vitro,  duloxetine  had  no  effect  on  the  function  of  the  smooth  and  cardiac 
muscles  at  concentrations  of  10-6  M  and  lower,  while  antagonistic  effects  were  observed  at 
concentrations of 10-5 and above. Duloxetine did not affect smooth or cardiac muscle function of rat 
and guinea pig at concentrations of 1 nM to 1 µM. 
Cardiac  ion  channel  results,  together  with  QT  measurements  from  dogs  and  humans  would  not 
indicate an arrhythmogenic risk with the use of duloxetine. 
Central nervous system effects: Duloxetine would not be predicted to substantively affect CNS. It  did 
not  adversely  affect  CNS  function  of  mice  after  single  oral  doses  3 mg/kg.  At  higher  doses  (10  and  
30 mg/kg)  an  increase  in  hexobarbital-induced  time  sleep  was  observed,  indicating  that  duloxetine 
may  produce  CNS  depression  or  interfere  with  hexobarbital  metabolism.  Moreover,  an  increase  in 
seizure threshold in electroshock-induced convulsions was observed at the highest dose. Comparable 
changes  have  been  obtained  following  multiple  dosing  (5  days).  Mydriasis  has  been  reported  in 
association with duloxetine treatment. 
Gastrointestinal, renal and immunological effects: there were no important effects on gastrointestinal 
motility  or  immune  functions  in  mice.  Regarding  renal  function,  no  effects  on  urine  volume  were 
observed in rats based on the studies provided by the Applicant. However, a slight elevation of serum 
potassium levels and an increase in sodium excretion were observed with 10 and 20 mg/kg doses. 
Potential for abuse: the abuse potential of duloxetine was evaluated in monkeys and rats; duloxetine 
demonstrated  the  above  mentioned  CNS  effects  in  rats,  but  not  in  rhesus  monkeys  up  to  64  mg/kg 
doses.  Duloxetine  also  did  not  demonstrate  cross  physical  dependence  potential  with  barbital  or 
physical dependence-producing potential. As such, duloxetine would not be expected to pose a risk for 
substance abuse. 
Based  upon  the  results  of  these  studies,  therapeutically  relevant  doses  of  duloxetine  would  not  be 
predicted  to  substantively  affect  CNS,  smooth  muscle,  renal,  immune,  or  gastrointestinal  functions, 
neither  would  be  expected  to  pose  a  risk  for  substance  abuse.  Potential  secondary  pharmacologic 
reactions at clinical doses would be limited to potential increases  in pulmonary pressure, pulmonary 
vascular resistance, and respiratory rate. However, these effects are attributable to the known actions 
of norepinephrine and serotonin (Brunner and Gross 1979; Garattini and Valzelli 1965; Weiner 1985), 
and were only observed in anaesthetised animals. 
•  Summary of salient findings 
The  rationale  for  the  development  and  application  for  marketing  approval  of  the  duloxetine 
formulation  is  well  established.  In  vitro,  duloxetine  was  an  inhibitor  of  both  serotonin  and 
norepinephrine  reuptake  and  a  relatively  weak  inhibitor  of  dopamine  reuptake.  In  addition,  no 
significant  affinity  for  histaminergic,  dopaminergic,  cholinergic  or  adrenergic  receptors  was 
evidenced. 
The  effectiveness  of  duloxetine  in  the  treatment  of  MDD  is  linked  to  its  inhibition  of  presynaptic 
neuron reuptake of serotonin and norepinephrine in the central nervous system, resulting in elevated 
levels  of  serotonin  and  norepinephrine 
the  synaptic  cleft,  enhancing  monoaminergic 
neurotransmission.  Although  no  specific  animal  models  for  MDD  are  available,  the  in  vivo 
pharmacodynamic studies provide indirect evidence for the potential clinical efficacy of duloxetine. 
At therapeutic range, duloxetine is not expected to pose a risk on CNS, smooth muscle, renal, immune, 
or gastrointestinal functions. Substance abuse is unlikely. 
The extent and scope of the documentation provided in this application are appropriate to support the 
non-clinical-pharmacology profile of duloxetine 
All  the  non-clinical-pharmacology  information  provided  is  supported  by  relevant  bibliographical 
references. 
in 
Pharmacokinetics 
The Applicant has conducted a number of studies concerning the absorption, distribution, metabolism, 
and  excretion  of  duloxetine  in  mice,  rats,  and  dogs.  Only  limited  metabolism  and  excretion  were 
7/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
evaluated  in  the  monkey,  since  the  dog  had  been  chosen  as  the  nonrodent  specie  for  use  in  the 
toxicology  programme.  Radiolabeled  drug  was  administered  in  the  pharmacokinetic,  metabolism, 
excretion,  and  tissue  distribution  studies.  The  plasma  protein  binding  of  14C-duloxetine  has  been 
determined in mouse, rat, dog, and human plasma. Additional studies have investigated the placental 
transfer of 14C-duloxetine in rats and the excretion of 14C-duloxetine into milk of lactating rats. 
•  Absorption- Bioavailability 
The  Applicant  has  conducted  a  number  of  studies  concerning  absorption  of  duloxetine  in  several 
animal species. Duloxetine was well absorbed in these species after gavage or dietary administration 
After  oral  administration,  duloxetine  is  well  absorbed  and  extensively  metabolised,  tmax  being 
approx. 1.5 hours in mice and rats. Absorption was found to be greatest from the duodenum and least 
from the stomach.  Additionally, pharmacokinetics of duloxetine were similar in fed and fasted  male 
rats. 
Bioavailability  was  determined  to  be  21%  in  rats  and  5%  in  dogs,  probably  due  to  extensive 
metabolism in the latter. 
No  consistent  gender  differences  in  exposure  occurred  in  dogs,  although  female  rats  tended  to  have 
higher  exposure  than  male  rats  and  male  mice  had  greater  values  than  female  mice,  but  only  at  the 
highest doses tested. Even though the AUC values increased with increasing doses in mice, rats and 
dogs,  these  increases  were  not  always  proportional  at  the  higher  doses.  Additionally,  there  was  no 
evidence of accumulation with increasing duration of exposure. 
•  Distribution 
With  respect  to  the  distribution  of  duloxetine,  several  studies  using  quantitative  whole-body 
autoradiography  (QWBA)  and  tissue  dissection  studies  techniques  were  performed.  Duloxetine  was 
highly bound to proteins in plasma, the mean percent bound to human plasma proteins at a duloxetine 
concentration of 150.2 ng/mL being 95.9% 
Duloxetine was present in high concentrations in the stomach and intestinal contents at 3 to 12 hours 
postdose. Kidney, liver, and lung contained the highest tissue concentrations.  
Duloxetine and/or its metabolites were distributed into breast milk of rats, and does undergo placental 
transfer.  Therefore,  embryonic  tissues  were  exposed  to  duloxetine  and  its  metabolites  during  the 
period  of  organogenesis  in  the  embryo-foetal  toxicity  studies.  Although  there  was  no  embryo-
foetotoxicity effect observed, delay in postnatal development was reported.  
In  conclusion,  duloxetine  should  be  used  in  pregnancy  only  if  the  potential  benefit  justifies  the 
potential risk to the foetus. While breast-feeding, the use of duloxetine, is not recommended. 
•  Metabolism  
The Applicant has performed a number of studies concerning metabolism of duloxetine in mice, rats, 
dogs  and  monkeys.  After  oral  administration,  duloxetine  was  well  absorbed,  but  extensively 
metabolised  regardless  of  the  salt  form.  Overall,  the  liver  was  determined  to  be  the  primary  organ 
responsible  for  the  metabolism  of  duloxetine.  In  all  animal  species,  the  major  biotransformation 
pathways involve several oxidations, especially in the naphthyl ring followed by further oxidation and 
conjugation or formation of a dihydrodiol. Additional reactions involved cleavage at the ether linkage 
to form thienyl derivatives and naphthol. 
Some  differences  related  to  the  metabolic  profile  and  exposure  exist  between  animals  species  and 
humans. 
Duloxetine was a mixed cytochrome P-450 inducer in all species tested, at higher doses CYP1A and 
CYP2B  were  induced),  but  there  was  no  significant  induction  of  CYP1A2  or  CYP3A  in  cultured 
human  hepatocytes.  Both  CYP2D6  and  CYP1A2  participate  in  the  biotransformation  of  4-hydroxy 
and 5-hydroxy duloxetine, suggesting that the clearance of duloxetine  would be related to the levels 
and activities of both of these enzymes. 
•  Excretion 
8/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Several excretion studies were performed by the Applicant in mouse, rat, dog and human.  
The  excretion  profile  was  similar  after  either  oral  or  intravenous  administration  to  rats  and  dogs, 
which indicates that duloxetine was well absorbed and that elimination was not affected by the route 
of administration.  Duloxetine  was  cleared rapidly primarily  by  metabolism  in  all species  tested,  and 
one or more of its metabolites has an extended elimination phase. 
Mice,  rats,  and  dogs  excreted  the  majority  of  a  single  oral  dose  of  14C-duloxetine  in  the  faeces, 
whereas  humans  excreted  a  larger  amount  of  the  dose  in  urine.  Further,  approximately  66%  of  the 
radioactivity  excreted  in  the  bile  is  reabsorbed  in  rats,  indicating  that  enterohepatic  circulation  of 
metabolites likely contributes to the extended elimination phase of radioactivity in the animal species. 
•  Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
Duloxetine  is  a  moderate  inhibitor  of  CYP2D6,  and  therefore,  caution  is  advisable  if  administering 
duloxetine  together  with  other  CYP2D6  inhibitors.  Concomitant  use  of  duloxetine  with  drugs 
undergoing  CYP2D6  metabolism  may  result  in  higher  concentrations  of  the  latter.  There  was  no 
significant  induction  of  CYP1A2  or  CYP3A  in  cultured  human  hepatocytes.  Concomitant  use  of 
duloxetine with potent inhibitors of CYP1A2, like fluvoxamine, ciprofloxacin or enoxacine, will result 
in higher concentrations of duloxetine and therefore co-administration is contraindicated.  
Duloxetine is contraindicated in patients taking monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI). It should not 
be  used  within  at  least  14  days  of  discontinuing  treatment  with  MAOI.  Based  on  the  half-life  of 
duloxetine, at least 5 days should be allowed after stopping duloxetine before starting MAOI. 
•  Summary of pharmacokinetic parameters  
The Applicant has appropriately described the non-clinical pharmacokinetics properties for duloxetine. 
A number of studies concerning the absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion of duloxetine 
in mice, rats, and dogs have been performed. 
Rats  might  be  suggested  to  be  the  most  appropriate  species  for  toxicology  studies  since  major 
biotransformation pathways for duloxetine, in female rats as in man, were similar. However, mice and 
dogs are also valuable since exposure to specific human circulating metabolites could be seen in their 
plasma.  
Duloxetine  was  well  absorbed  in  the  mentioned  species,  and  absorption  was  maximum  at  the 
duodenum. It did not show evidence of accumulation when duration of exposure increased. 
Duloxetine presented high protein binding across all species. Although it is not widely distributed it 
crosses the blood-brain barrier, undergoes placental transfer and is excreted into milk. 
Duloxetine is extensively metabolised, primarily by the liver. 
The main pharmacokinetics features are summarised in the following table: 
9/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Summary of pharmacokinetics for duloxetine 
 Absorption 
Well absorbed. 
After oral administration:  
tmax = 1.5 hrs in mice, rats, dogs and monkeys 
tmax =6 hrs in humans; with food tmax delayed to 10 hrs (variable) 
Bioavailability 
Rat approximately 21%.  
Dog approximately 5%. 
Human approximately 50% (32%-80%) 
Dose proportionality 
Linear kinetics was seen in mice and rats. In dogs, linear kinetics was 
observed at low daily doses (< 30 mg/kg). Non-linear at and above daily 
doses of 30 mg/kg in dog. 
Non-linear kinetics in humans 
Terminal plasma half-life 
Mouse: 2.1 hrs, radioactivity half life: 27 hrs 
Rat: 1.5 hrs, radioactivity half life: 122 hrs 
Dog: 4 hrs, radioactivity half life: 93 hrs 
Monkey: 3.5 hrs, radioactivity half life: 91 hrs 
Human: 12.1 hrs, radioactivity half life: 120 hrs 
Distribution 
High protein binding (93.6%-97.3% in all species). 
Not widely distributed but crosses the blood-brain barrier. 
Distribution over placenta and excreted into milk.  
Metabolism 
Rapid and extensive metabolism. Some differences related to the 
metabolic profile and exposure exist between animals species and humans.
Excretion 
Toxicology 
Mice, rats and dogs: main route via faeces (46%-77%).  
Monkey: main route via urine (58%) 
Human: main route via urine (72%) 
Biliary excretion in rats, dogs.  
Duloxetine hydrochloride has been evaluated in a variety of toxicology studies in laboratory animals 
and in vitro test systems. Studies included single-dose toxicity in mice, rats, and dogs; repeated-dose 
toxicity in mice, rats, and dogs; in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity; carcinogenic potential in mice and 
rats; and reproductive and developmental toxicity in rats and rabbits.  
All toxicity studies were performed according to GLP. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single-dose toxicity studies were conducted with duloxetine hydrochloride and duloxetine maleate in 
mice, rats and dogs  using oral  administration, the intended clinical route. In general, the toxicologic 
effects  seen  in  the  three  species  were  extensions  of  the  pharmacology  of  duloxetine.  The  primary 
10/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
findings  following  oral  administration  were  related  to  central  nervous  system  (CNS)  effects  (i.e., 
tremors, convulsions, emesis, mydriasis, salivation, and hyper-responsiveness).  
The  median  lethal  doses  in  mice  were  approximately  300-400  mg/kg,  and  in  rats  500-600  mg/kg 
(males) and 300-500 mg/kg (female). In dogs, no deaths occurred at the maximum tested dose of 100 
mg/kg.  
•  Repeat dose toxicity  
Repeat-dose toxicity studies were conducted with duloxetine hydrochloride and duloxetine maleate in 
mice,  rats  and  dogs  using  dietary  (mice  and  rats)  or  gavage  (dogs)  administration.  Altogether  eight 
studies were performed. 
Based on the results provided by the Applicant, the most relevant adverse events, target organ-related 
to  duloxetine  administration  in  all  species  tested  was  the  liver,  with  signs  occurring  at  or  below  the 
clinical exposure in all animal species investigated. The changes observed in this target organ did not 
appear  to  be  indicative  of  toxicity,  and  they  could  have  been  a  consequence  of  hepatic  induction. 
Major  findings  were  increased  liver  weights,  moderate  induction  of  hepatic  enzymes  (CYP1A1  and 
CYP2B)  and  slight  to  moderate  centrilobular  hypertrophy.  Slight  lipofuscin  pigmentation  was  also 
noted in male mice.  
In conclusion, the mainly adverse events related to duloxetine prolongued administration involve the 
liver,  which  could  be  consistent  with  the  fact  that  duloxetine  accumulates  in  this  organ.  Based  on 
toxicologic effects from the repeat-dose studies, and taking into account the steady-state AUC values 
from  the  interspecies  comparison  study,  several  hepatic  issues  are  observed  across  species  at  levels 
equal to or below therapeutic exposure multiple in humans. 
•  Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo  
Duloxetine  maleate  and  duloxetine  hydrochloride  were  not  mutagenic  when  tested  at  appropriate 
doses  in  a  battery  of  genotoxicity  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies  that  included  all  relevant  positive 
controls. All studies were performed with duloxetine hydrochloride or maleate according to GLP. 
There  was  no  evidence  of  induced  mutation  by  treatment  with  duloxetine  maleate  and  duloxetine 
hydrochloride when tested. 
Taking  into  account  the  results  of  these  studies,  duloxetine  can  be  considered  as  a  non-genotoxic 
substance. 
•  Carcinogenicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The  oncogenic/carcinogenic  potential  of  duloxetine  hydrochloride  was  evaluated  in  both  mice  and 
rats. The studies were performed according to GLP.  
A dose dependent increase in the percentage of cells with diplochromosomes was seen in the in vitro 
chromosomal  aberration  test  in  CHO  cells.  Hepatocytes  with  more  than  one  nucleus  are  a  common 
histological finding. However, hepatocytes with more than 2-3 nuclei are rare. 
Multinucleated cells were seen in the liver in the rat carcinogenicity study. The underlying mechanism 
is  unknown.  The  multinucleated  hepatocytes  were  observed  as  a  dose-related  effect  in  the  rat 
carcinogenicity study without any sign of other pathological changes observed in the hepatocytes. No 
genotoxicity  or  hepatic  tumourigenesis  were  observed.  No  multinucleated  hepatocytes  were  seen  in 
either  the  mouse  or  dog,  which  indicates  a  species-specific  effect  in  the  rat.  However,  the  clinical 
relevance  of  this  finding  is  unknown.  To  properly  reflect  this  information,  the  following  text  is 
included in section 5.3 of the SPC: “ Multinucleated cells were seen in the liver in the absence of other 
histopathological changes in the rat carcinogenicity study. The underlying mechanism and the clinical 
relevance are unknown.”  
•  Reproductive and developmental studies 
Fertility studies were conducted by the Applicant to test reproductive performance in both male and 
female  rats.  Duloxetine  had  no  effect  on  male  fertility  and  effects  in  females  were  only  evident  at 
doses that caused maternal toxicity. Furthermore, foetal viability and morphology were not adversely 
11/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
affected by treatment. In a pre/postnatal toxicity study in rat, duloxetine induced adverse behavioural 
effects in the offspring at systemic exposures levels below maximum clinical exposure (AUC).  
In  an  embryotoxicity  study  in  the  rabbit,  a  higher  incidence  of  cardiovascular  and  skeletal 
malformations  was  observed  at  systemic  exposure  levels  below  the  maximum  clinical  exposure 
(AUC). No malformations were observed in another study testing a higher dose of a different salt of 
duloxetine. As a consequence of this, the SPC states that duloxetine should be used in pregnancy only 
if  the  potential  benefit  justifies  the  potential  risk  to  the  foetus,  while  women  should  be  advised  to 
notify their physician if they become pregnant, or intend to become pregnant, during therapy. 
•  Local tolerance  
Fischer 344 rats given daily 30-minute intravenous infusions at doses of 1, 5, or 10 mg/kg had findings 
of  excessive  irritation  at  the  injection  sites.  Systemic  toxicity  was  not  observed  in  rats  given 
1 mg/kg/day for 15 days. Similarly, daily 30-minute intravenous infusions to beagle dogs at doses of 
1, 2.5, or 5 mg/kg had no evidence of systemic toxicity. However, local irritation at the injection sites 
precluded dosing of the 5-mg/kg/day group for longer than 10 days. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
The  potential  for  immunogenicity  and  hypersensitivity-eliciting  antigenicity  of  duloxetine  was 
evaluated in a number of studies in guinea pigs and mice. Duloxetine was not immunogenic and does 
not  possess  hypersensitivity-eliciting  antigenicity  in  any  of  the  studies  performed.  These  results 
indicate that the risk of duloxetine causing adverse allergic reactions is negligible. 
The abuse potential of duloxetine was evaluated in monkeys and rats. Duloxetine did not demonstrate 
cross physical dependence potential with barbital or physical dependence-producing potential, or any 
reinforcing effects. The results from studies specifically designed to examine abuse potential indicate 
that duloxetine would not be expected to pose a risk for substance abuse. 
The  enteric  coating,  HPMCAS,  has  no  evidence  of  absorption;  further,  HPMCAS  has  been  widely 
used  in  medicinal  products  for  oral  use  in  several  countries  and  therefore  would  not  pose  any 
toxicological concern. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An  environmental  risk  assessment  was  submitted.  Although  duloxetine  would  be  regarded  as  a 
medium  risk  for  aquatic  organisms,  a  low  potential  for  bioaccumulation  is  observed.  Further, 
duloxetine is extensively metabolised to metabolites that lack pharmacological activity, and therefore 
substantive excretion of duloxetine from humans is not expected; thus, duloxetine would not pose an 
environmental concern. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Extensive documentation concerning nonclinical pharmacology and toxicology of duloxetine has been 
submitted, as well as for related substances and impurities, and excipients included in the formulation.  
The data presented by the Applicant has been adequately supported by relevant literature references. 
The  rationale  for  the  development  and  application  for  marketing  approval  of  the  duloxetine 
formulation  is  well  established.  In  vitro,  duloxetine  was  an  inhibitor  of  both  serotonin  and 
norepinephrine  reuptake,  as  other  antidepressant  compounds  described  in  the  literature.  Blockade  of 
the  reuptake  of  these  two  monoamines  increases  the  concentration  in  the  synaptic  cleft,  thereby 
facilitating  neurotransmission  via  serotonergic  and  adreneric 
in  vivo 
pharmacodynamic  studies  showed  that  duloxetine  has  a  profile  similar  to  that  seen  for  other 
substances approved for this indication.  
Safety  pharmacology  studies  on  the  cardiovascular  system,  central  nervous  system,  gastrointestinal 
system, immune system and the kidney have been performed. At therapeutic range, duloxetine is not 
expected  to  pose  a  risk  on  CNS,  smooth  muscle,  renal,  immune,  or  gastrointestinal  functions,  and 
receptors.  Several 
12/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
substance abuse  is  unlikely. The extent  and  scope  of the documentation  provided in this application 
are appropriate to support the non-clinical-pharmacology profile of duloxetine. 
Duloxetine  is  well  absorbed  in  all  studied  species,  and  is  extensively  metabolised,  especially  in  the 
liver. 
For  the  treatment  of  pregnant  women  with  MDD  duloxetine  should  only  be  used  if  the  potential 
benefits outweight the potential risk to the foetus.   
Duloxetine  was  not  shown  to  be  genotoxic  or  carcinogenic  in  the  studies  performed,  but 
multinucleated cells were seen in the liver in the rat carcinogenicity study a species-specific effect, the 
clinical relevance of this finding being unknown. These findings are reflected in the SPC. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  pharmacokinetic  and  pharmacodynamic  characteristics  of  duloxetine  have  been  assessed  in 
healthy  subjects,  special  populations,  and  patients  with  either  major  depressive  disorder  (MDD)  or 
stress  urinary  incontinence  (SUI).  The  pharmacokinetic  data  were  available  from  a  total  of  294 
subjects,  including  healthy  volunteers,  subjects  with  end-stage  renal  disease  (ESRD),  and  subjects 
with cirrhosis in 21 clinical pharmacology studies and at least 421 patients in four Phase 2 and Phase 3 
clinical trials.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Duloxetine is a chiral compound. The S-enantiomer seems to be the one that has been developed by 
the  Applicant.  Since  the  in  vitro  pharmacologic  activity  of  the  two  enantiomers  is  similar, 
interconversion,  should  it  occur  would  be  postulated  to  result  in  no  or  only  slight  changes  in  the  in 
vivo  therapeutic  effect.  Moreover,  since  the  assay  was  not  specific  to  a  single  enantiomer,  the 
pharmacokinetics of duloxetine would reflect the combined data on both enantiomers. 
The pharmacokinetics of duloxetine have been characterised in healthy men and women over a single-
dose range of 20 mg to 60 mg and over a multiple-dose range of 40 mg/day to 160 mg/day. 
For  the  majority  of  the  studies,  duloxetine  concentrations  were  determined  using  validated  high 
performance  liquid chromatography tandem  mass spectrometry (HPLC/MS/MS) methods. The assay 
was  validated  over  the  concentrations  range  of  0.5  ng/mL  to  100  ng/mL  with  higher  concentrations 
obtained after dilution of the samples. In some studies, the two major metabolites of duloxetine - the 
glucuronide  conjugate  of  4-hydroxy  duloxetine  and  the  sulfate  conjugate  of  5-hydroxy,  6-methoxy 
duloxetine  -  were  determined.  The  metabolite  concentrations  were  obtained  using  a  validated 
HPLC/MS/MS method over the concentration range of 1 ng/mL to 1000 ng/mL. The overall relative 
standard deviation (a measure of precision) and absolute relative error (a measure of accuracy) were 
less  than  10%  for  both  assays.  Duloxetine  and  its  two  major  metabolites  were  found  to  be  stable  in 
plasma  stored  frozen  for  the  length  of  time  that  the  study  samples  were  stored  under  similar 
conditions. 
•  Absorption  
Results  from  mass  balance  studies  indicate  a  fairly  high  extent  of  absorption  (>70%)  of  duloxetine. 
Duloxetine  is  a  delayed  release  formulation  (capsules  containing  enteric-coated  pellets),  and  as  a 
result,  Tmax  occurs,  at  about  6  hours.    The  absolute  oral  bioavailability  was  estimated  to  a  mean  of 
50%, but individual results ranged between 32 and 80%.  
Bioequivalence  between  the  clinical  trial  and  the  marketing  formulations  of  duloxetine  was 
demonstrated  using  a  60 mg  dose.  This  is  acceptable,  since  all  strengths  of  the  final  formulation 
contain  the  same  enteric-coated  pellets.  When  administered  with  a  high-fat  meal,  there  was  a  6% 
decrease  in  Cmax  and  an  11%  decrease  in  AUC0-∞  The  absorption  was  delayed  by  food,  with  an 
increase in Tmax of about 4 hours. A specific dose recommendation with respect to food intake is not 
considered warranted based on this.  
13/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Distribution 
Duloxetine  has  an  extensive  tissue  distribution  and  is  highly  bound  to  plasma  proteins.  Different 
figures have been reported, but the degree of binding was generally above 95%. Duloxetine is bound 
both to albumin and to α-acid glycoprotein (AAGP). Since AAGP is a protein with variable plasma 
concentrations, within and between patients, e.g. due to disease states like infections, this could be a 
source of variability in the pharmacokinetics of duloxetine. 
The urinary metabolites of duloxetine were moderately bound to plasma proteins and this binding was 
unaffected by the presence of duloxetine. 
Protein  binding  is  not  affected  by  end-stage  renal  disease  (ESRD)  or  by  hepatic  impairment,  and  is 
independent of duloxetine concentration.  
•  Elimination 
Duloxetine  is  predominantly  eliminated  in  the  urine  after  undergoing  extensive  metabolism  to 
numerous metabolites that are pharmacologically inactive. 
Comparison  of  the  metabolite-to-parent ratio  values  after IV  and  oral  duloxetine reveal that a larger 
fraction of the drug is metabolised upon oral administration, likely reflecting first-pass metabolism.  
The  major  biotransformation  pathways  involve  oxidation  in  the  naphthyl  ring,  followed  by  further 
oxidation, methylation, and conjugation. The two major circulating metabolites of duloxetine are the 
glucuronide  conjugate  of  4-hydroxy  duloxetine  and  the  sulfate  conjugate  of  5-hydroxy,  6-methoxy 
duloxetine.  The  cytochrome  P450  isoenzymes  involved  in  the  oxidative  metabolism  of  duloxetine 
seem  to  be  CYP1A2  and  CYP2D6  based  on  in vitro  and  in  vivo  data.  Both  CYP1A2  and  CYP2D6 
were identified  as  participants  in  the  hydroxylation  at  4  and  5  positions,  the  two  dominant routes  of 
duloxetine metabolism. Should the activity of one of CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 be absent or decreased in 
a subject, the other enzyme would be available to metabolise duloxetine. No unchanged duloxetine is 
excreted in urine.  
In vitro studies indicate that neither of these metabolites contributes to the pharmacologic activity of 
duloxetine. 
Hepatic  impairment  results  in  a  decrease  in  the  formation  of  the  metabolites,  which  leads  to  higher 
plasma  concentrations  of  duloxetine.  In  contrast,  renal  impairment  (end  stage  renal  disease  treated 
with chronic haemodialysis) reduces their rate of elimination as evidenced by the longer t½ values of 
the metabolites. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose  proportionality  has  been  assessed  in  several  studies  over  a  dose  range  covering  the  proposed 
dosage. These analyses, suggest that higher duloxetine doses are associated with slightly lower CL/F 
and, correspondingly, the average steady-state concentrations at higher doses are slightly higher than 
would  be  projected  for  a  dose-proportional  increase.  Nevertheless,  the  magnitude  of  the  deviation 
from  either  strictly  linear  pharmacokinetic  behaviour  or  dose-proportional  increases  across  dose  is 
small, particularly in comparison to the degree of interindividual variability in plasma concentrations. 
Most  importantly,  within  any  individual  subject,  the  deviations  from  classical  linearity  or  dose-
proportionality appear to be very small in magnitude. Thus, the apparent slight non-linear behaviour 
and more-than-proportional increase in plasma concentration across the duloxetine dosage range of 40 
mg/day to 120 mg/day are unlikely to be clinically important. 
 Steady state is generally reached within 3-5 days. 
•  Special populations 
Hepatic impairment: a study using a single low (20 mg) dose was used to study the effect of moderate 
(Child-Pugh  Class  B)  hepatic  cirrhosis  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  duloxetine  and  the  major 
metabolites.  However,  the  pharmacokinetics  of  duloxetine  and  its  metabolites  were  not  studied  in 
patients with mild or severe hepatic insufficiency. A clear effect was observed after the single dose, 
with  an  almost  5-fold  increase  in  AUC0-∞  and  a  3-fold  longer  T½  of  duloxetine.  The  mean  plasma 
protein  binding  was  lower  in  the  hepatically  impaired  subjects  (not  statistically  significant,  though), 
14/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
indicating an even larger difference in mean unbound exposure. The subjects included had moderate 
cirrhosis  according  the  Child-Pugh  classification,  with  scores  of  7  or  8.  Thus,  there  is  an  effect  of 
hepatic disease on the pharmacokinetics of duloxetine even at a quite moderate degree of severity.  
The SPC specifies that duloxetine is contraindicated in patients with liver disease resulting in hepatic 
impairment. 
Renal  impairment:    renal  impairment  results  in  a  substantially  higher  plasma  concentrations  of  the 
glucuronide  conjugate  of  4-hydroxy  duloxetine  and  the  sulphate  conjugate  of  5-hydroxy-6-methoxy 
duloxetine  (9-fold  and  7-fold  higherAUC,  respectively)  and  longer  elimination  half-life  (2-fold  and 
1.6-fold longer, respectively) compared to healthy controls. The Applicant proposes that duloxetine 30 
mg BID may be given to ESRD subjects to produce a plasma concentration-time profile similar to that 
in  healthy  subjects  receiving  60  mg  twice  daily  (BID).  Alternatively,  duloxetine  60  mg  once  daily 
(QD) may be administered to ESRD subjects so that the steady-state drug concentration is similar on 
average but this dosing regimen has a larger peak-to-trough fluctuation compared to healthy subjects 
on duloxetine 60 mg BID. Although the data supporting this statement come from a single-dose study, 
the Applicant states that, since the t1/2 for duloxetine remain unchanged, no accumulation is likely to 
occur at steady state. However, in the view of the CHMP, and quite the opposite to duloxetine used for 
patients  with  stress  urinary  incontinence,  patients  with  ESRD  constitute  a  potential  relevant  target 
population  for  CYMBALTA.  In  this  regard,  the  terminal  half  life  for  duloxetine’s  metabolites  is 
significantly  increased.  Thus  substantially  higher  plasma  concentrations  (9-fold  and  7-fold  higher, 
respectively) and longer elimination half-life (1.6-fold and 2-fold longer, respectively) were observed 
in  ESRD  subjects  compared  to  healthy  controls,  suggesting  a  significant  reduction  of  the  renal 
clearance of duloxetine’s conjugated metabolites in ESRD subjects. Although the Applicant states that 
the conjugated metabolites are not pharmacologically active and thus, only the changes in duloxetine 
pharmacokinetics are of clinical concern for ESRD subjects, the CHMP does not share the same view, 
as pharmacological inactivity does not necessarily mean lack of toxicity. In this regard, it was agreed 
to contraindicate severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min). 
Age:  pharmacokinetic  differences  have  been  identified  between  younger  and  elderly  females  (≥65 
years) (AUC  increases by about  25% and  half-life is about 25%  longer in the elderly), although the 
magnitude of these changes is not sufficient to justify adjustments to the dose. 
Gender:  gender  has  an  effect  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  duloxetine,  with  females  having 
approximately  twice  as  high  exposure  compared  with  males.  Many  pharmacokinetic  studies  were 
performed in males and the results may, thus, not be immediately extrapolated to females. It is agreed 
that  the  isoenzymes  involved  in  the  metabolism  of  duloxetine,  i.e.  CYPs  1A2  and  2D6  are  not  sex-
specific. Bearing this in mind, it cannot be excluded that a different effect of duloxetine on a CYP1A2 
substrate  would  be  observed  in  females  as  compared  to  males.  A  study  investigating  the  effect  of 
duloxetine on the pharmacokinetics of a CYP1A2 substrate, e.g. theophylline, is to be performed also 
in females.  
A  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  on  patients  with  MDD  (233  patients)  revealed  significant 
relationship  between  gender,  smoking  and  dose  and  duloxetine  CL/F  (higher  by  54%  in  males  and 
52% in smokers) It could be discussed that both facts considered altogether explain about 11% of the 
interpatient variability. The results from Pop-PK analyses in SUI and MDD suggest that the apparent 
plasma clearance is lower by approximately 1% for each year of age over the investigated age range 
(24 to 77 years). Nevertheless, the age effect could at most explain 6% of the interpatient coefficient 
of variation in CL/F and is unlikely to be clinically important. However, the information of effect of 
age in patients with MDD is limited, as most of the patients were below 50. It has been stated that a 
specific  dosage  recommendation  based  only  on  the  patient’s  age  would  be  regarded  as  unnecessary 
because an age-specific dose adjustment will not have an impact on the interpatient variability or the 
range of prospective steady-state duloxetine concentrations for any adult age group.  
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
15/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In vitro data show that CYP2D6 has been shown to be non-inducible and that duloxetine may inhibit 
CYP3A,  CYP1A2,  or  CYP2C9  at  concentrations  substantially  higher  than  those  anticipated  in  the 
clinical setting. It is unlikely that enzyme induction would occur clinically. 
In vivo drug-drug interaction studies have been carried out with CYP2D6 substrates (desipramine and 
tolterodine), CYP2D6 inhibitors (paroxetine), CYP1A2 substrates (theophylline), CYP1A2 inhibitors 
(fluvoxamine),  and  other  drugs  and  substances  likely  to  be  co-administered  with  duloxetine 
(lorazepam,  temazepam,  ethanol  and  antacids).  Duloxetine  has  shown  to  be  a  moderate  CYP2D6 
inhibitor  (3-fold  increase  in  the  overall  exposure  to  desipramine  and  2-fold  increase  to  tolterodine). 
Similarly,  paroxetine  (CYP2D6  inhibitor)  increases  duloxetine  overall  exposure  by  60  %. 
Fluvoxamine, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, increases the exposure of duloxetine (more than 5-fold) No 
significant  interactions  with  benzodiazepines  and  antacids  have  been  found.  The  SPC  clearly  reflect 
these findings. 
Additional  data  for  CYP2C19  was  submitted  for  this  application.  It  is  agreed  that  these  isoforms 
represent  a  small  part  of  the  metabolism  of  commonly  prescribed  drug.  On  the  other  hand,  since 
CYP2C8  isoenzymes might be involved in the occurrence of clinically important interactions due its 
inhibition,  e.g.  by  gemfibrozil,  an  in vitro  study  investigating  the  effect  of  duloxetine  on  the 
metabolism of a CYP2C8 substrate is to be performed.  
•  Conclusion on human pharmacokinetics 
Duloxetine  is  a  drug  with  highly  variable  pharmacokinetics  and  many  factors  affect  the  systemic 
exposure.  From  the  presented  data,  gender,  age,  food,  renal  and  hepatic  function,  smoking  status, 
CYP2D6  status  and  drug-drug  interactions  are  all  factors  affecting  the  plasma  levels  of  duloxetine. 
Interindividual  differences  in  plasma  concentrations  of  α1-acid  glycoprotein  (AAGP)  may  also 
contribute to the variability.  
It  has  been  discussed  whether  when  considered  isolatedly,  none  of  these  factors  (except  ESRD  and 
liver  cirrhosis)  is  expected  to  induce  clinically  relevant  changes  in  duloxetine  PK  requiring  dosing 
adjustments. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Six  studies  were  designed  to  evaluate  pharmacodynamics  in  healthy  volunteers.  Four  of  them  were 
aimed  to  assess  pharmacodynamyc  effects  and  safety  during  treatment  with  increasing  doses  of 
duloxetine and the other two evaluated pharmacodynamic interactions with ethanol and lorazepam.  
No clinical data on primary pharmacology are provided. This was considered acceptable, as there are 
no validated PD models for MDD. 
Design 
Subject 
Dosage Regimen 
Objectives 
Study 
Code 
SBBN 
Single-blind, 
randomised, outpatient 
study 
15 healthy subjects 
(5 M, 10 F) 
BD-O001 
Double-blind, 
randomised, placebo-
controlled, crossover. 
12 healthy male 
subjects 
SAAN 
HMAE 
12 healthy male 
subjects 
Double-blind, 
randomised, three-way 
crossover study. 
Randomised, 4 groups, 
duloxetine and placebo 
blinded (not 
clomipramine) 
Randomised, single-
blind, three-period 
crossover study 
Randomised, two-period, 
crossover study. 
DLX: Duloxetine; CMP: Clomipramine; DPM: Desipramine 
27 healthy male 
subjects 
16 healthy subjects 
(8 M, 8 F) 
16 healthy subjects 
(6 M, 10 F) 
HMBA 
HMBD 
DLX beginning at 40 mg/BID 
for the first 2w, increasing by 
40 mg/d each week up to 120 
mg/BID.  
DLX 80 mg/d single dose 
DLX 120mg/d in two doses 
DPM 100 mg/d in 2 doses 
Placebo 
DLX 5 mg/d 14 d 
DLX 20 mg/d 14 d 
Placebo 40 d 
DLX 20 mg/d twice daily 14 d 
DLX 60 mg/d twice daily 14 d 
CMP 100 mg/d twice daily 14d
Placebo 14 d 
DLX 60 mg single dose 
Ethanol single dose 
Safety and 
tolerability  
PK and pD 
parameters. 
Profile of mood 
scales. 
5-HT and NE 
reuptake blockade  
Ethanol pD 
interaction 
DLX 60 mg twice daily 
Lorazepam 2 mg twice daily 
Lorazepam pD 
interaction 
16/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Mechanism of action 
In  vitro,  duloxetine  was  a  potent  inhibitor  of  both  serotonin  and  norepinephrine  reuptake  and  a 
relatively  weak  inhibitor  of  dopamine  reuptake.  Duloxetine  has  a  low  affinity  for  muscarinic 
acetylcholine, histamine-1, α -1-NE, 5-HT1A , 5-HT1B, 5HT1D, D2 and opioid receptors.  
A  variety  of  in  vivo  studies  have  been  conducted  to  explain  the  primary  pharmacodynamics  of 
duloxetine. Pharmacodynamics directly related to the molecule must be inferred for claims toward the 
intended  clinical  utility  of  duloxetine,  as  specific  animal  models  for  MDD  are  not  available.  The 
models described provide indirect pharmacological evidence for the potential clinical efficacy of the 
molecule. Duloxetine increased extracellular levels of 5-HT and NE in the rat hypothalamus in a dose-
dependent manner to 450% and >1000% of baseline levels, respectively. Extracellular levels of 5-HT, 
NE, and DA were also increased in a dose-related manner in frontal cortex to about 240%, 300%, and 
260% of baseline levels, respectively. The increase of DA in the frontal cortex may be due to blockade 
of  the  NE  reuptake  carrier  as  DA  transporters  are  present  in  low  levels  in  frontal  cortex  and  NE 
transporters regulate DA levels. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Study  HMAE  studied  the  influence  on  mood  of  duloxetine  in  12  healthy  males.  In  a  double-blind, 
randomised, three-way crossover study duloxetine 5 mg QD, duloxetine 20 mg QD or placebo were 
administered  for  14  days.  The  effect  on  mood  was  registered  with  the  Profile  of  Moods  Scale. 
Duloxetine  appeared  to  have  no  significant  effect  on  mood  in  healthy  men.  The  findings,  however, 
cannot  be  considered  conclusive  since  the  observation  period  was  limited  to  two  weeks,  and  only  a 
limited number of male subjects were studied  
When  drug  –induced  effects  on  sleep  were  evaluated  (Study  BD-O001)  both  80-md  QD  and  60-md 
BID multiple dosing regimens of duloxetine and 50-mg BID desipramine demonstrated a clear REM 
suppression and a delay in REM occurrence.  
As  with  SSRIs,  duloxetine  significantly  increases  systolic  and  diastolic  blood  pressure  (6  and  4 
mmHg) and heart rate. In the view of the CHMP this can be considered as a class effect and no major 
safety concern seems to derive from this observation. The effects of duloxetine on QT interval have 
been  assessed  in  over  1000  patients  in  the  phase  III  database.    There  is  no  signal  indicating  that 
duloxetine might prolong the QT interval regardless of the correction method used. 
Clinical efficacy  
•  Dose response studies 
Results of four initial phase 2 studies (Studies F1J-EW-E001, F1J-MC-HMAG, F1J-MC-HMAH, and 
F1J-MC-HMAI) were provided. They assessed the efficacy of low doses of duloxetine (ranging from 
5  to  30  mg  QD)  in  the  treatment  of  MDD.  Three  out  of  them  were  double-blind,  randomised  and 
placebo controlled studies and the other one was open labelled and non-controlled study. These studies 
failed to demonstrate a statistically significant difference of duloxetine over placebo for the primary 
endpoint, although showed some effect when considering some secondary endpoints. So, these initial 
dosages  of  duloxetine  were  considered  as  to  be  in  the  lower-bound  of  the  effective  range  and 
additional “dose finding” studies were performed using higher doses (up to 160 mg per day).  
The  two  proof  of  concept  studies  HMAQa  and  HMAQb  (powered  65%)  also  examined  the  doses.  
These  were  identical  parallel  group,  double-blind,  forced-titration  active-  and  placebo-controlled 
studies comparing duloxetine titrated from 20 mg to 60 mg BID with placebo over 8 weeks of acute 
treatment. A fluoxetine 20 mg QD arm was used as an internal active comparator standard.  
The primary efficacy evaluation in these studies was the comparison between duloxetine 60 mg BID 
and placebo at endpoint using mean change analysis of the 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale 
(HAMD17)  total  score.  There  were  not  statistically  significant  differences  between  fluoxetine  and 
placebo  for  the  mean  change  in  HAMD17  total  score  in  any  of  the  studies.  Duloxetine  was 
numerically, but not statistically significantly, superior to placebo on the primary analysis. Only study 
17/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HMAQa showed  statistically significant differences for some of the secondary endpoints (HAMD17 
Maier  subscale,  CGI-Severity,  CGI-Improvement,  PGI-Improvement,  and  SF-36  Mental  Component 
Summary and Mental Health subscales). The Applicant concluded that only Study HMAQa supports 
the efficacy of duloxetine 60mg BID in the treatment of patients with DSM-IV defined MDD. In the 
view of the CHMP, the results of these studies are inconclusive, as neither duloxetine nor fluoxetine 
showed a significant greater effect than placebo. 
The  Applicant  went  on  studying  the  efficacy  of  different  dosages  of  duloxetine  during  the  Phase  3 
development programme. In these studies duloxetine 20mg BID, 40 mg BID, 60 mg BID and 60 mg 
QD were used. 
Based on the results of these studies, the Applicant recommends the use of Duloxetine 60 mg QD as 
the starting and the effective maintenance dose in the treatment of MDD. The main argument given by 
the  Applicant  to  support  this  dosage  was  that  60  mg  QD  was  the  only  dosage  that  demonstrated 
superiority over placebo in the three studies (two acute and the relapse prevention study) in which it 
was tested (in contrast to that seen for the remaining dosages for which superiority over placebo was 
only seen in a half of the studies in which were tested) and that the effect size observed was better or 
comparable  to  other  duloxetine  doses  tested  and  paroxetine  20mg.However,  duloxetine  60  mg  QD 
(HMBH a and b) was not compared to any active control or to other  duloxetine regimens.  
•  Main studies  
The efficacy of duloxetine in patients with a DSM-IV diagnosis of major depressive disorder (MDD) 
has  been  evaluated  in  seven  Phase  3  clinical  studies:  F1J-MC-HMATa,  F1J-MC-HMATb,  F1J-MC-
HMAYa,  F1J-MC-HMAYb,  F1J-MC-HMBHa  and  F1J-MC-HMBHb,  focusing  on  the  treatment  of 
acute symptoms, and study F1J-MC-HMBC, which focus on relapse prevention. 
Although  dosages  and  secondary  study  objectives  were  not  identical,  all  of  these  studies  apart  from 
Study HMBC used the same primary efficacy objective (mean change from baseline on the HAMD17 
total  score,  similar  methodology  and  determined  patient  eligibility  based  on  the  same  clinical 
algorithm.  
Study  HMBC  employed  time  to  relapse  as  the  primary  outcome  measure,  and  stipulated  a  higher 
HAMD17 entry criterion than the other Phase 3 studies. 
The studies explored duloxetine doses of 40 mg daily (given as 20 mg twice daily [BID]), 60 mg daily 
(given as 60 mg once daily [QD]), 80 mg/day (given as 40 mg BID), and 120 mg/day (given as 60 mg 
BID).  
18/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HMATa 
HMATb 
n 
84 
9190 
89 
HMAYb, 
acute Phase 
HMAYa 
acute Phase 
91 
86 
89 
87 
93 
95 
93 
86 
103 
93 
99 
97 
Groups 
DLX 40 mg BID 
DLX 20 mg BID 
PLACEBO 
PAROX 20mg QD 
DLX 40 mg BID 
DLX 20 mg BID 
PLACEBO 
PAROX 20mg QD 
DLX 60 mg BID 
DLX 40 mg BID 
PLACEBO 
PAROX 20mg QD 
DLX 60 mg BID 
DLX 40 mg BID 
PLACEBO 
PAROX 20mg QD 
DLX 60 mg BID 
DLX 40 mg BID 
PLACEBO 
PAROX 20mg QD 
DLX 60 mg BID 
DLX 40 mg BID 
PLACEBO 
PAROX 20mg QD 
DLX 60 mg QD 
PLACEBO 
 OVERVIEW OF MAIN CLINICAL STUDIES: MAJOR DEPRESSIVE DISORDER 
Identifier 
Study Design 
Randomised, double-blind, 
placebo- and active-comparator 
controlled, parallel group, fixed 
dose 
Randomised, double-blind, 
placebo- and active-comparator-
controlled, parallel group, fixed 
dose 
Randomised, double-blind, 
Placebo- and active-comparator- 
controlled, parallel group, fixed 
dose 
Randomised, double-blind, 
placebo- and active-comparator 
controlled, parallel-group, fixed- 
dose 
Double-blinded continuation for 
those patients meeting selection 
critera after 8+1 week HMAYa 
Acute Period 
Double-blinded continuation for 
those patients meeting selection 
critera after 8+1 week HMAYb 
Acute Period 
Randomised, double-blind, 
placebo controlled, parallel group, 
fixed dose 
Randomised, double-blind, 
Placebo controlled, parallel group, 
fixed dose 
12-weeks unblinded responders 
entering randomised, double-blind, 
placebo controlled, parallel, fixed- 
dose groups 
Open-label continuation study 
HMAYa, 
continuation 
Phase 
HMAYb 
continuation 
Phase 
DLX 60 mg QD 
PLACEBO 
DLX 1x60 mg 
PLACEBO 
DLX 60 mg QD 
HMBHb 
HMBHa 
136 
142 
123 
122 
128 
139 
HMBC 
HMAU 
Duration 
8 weeks 
8 weeks 
8 weeks 
8 weeks 
26 weeks 
26 weeks 
9 weeks 
9 weeks 
52 weeks 
6 months postrand. 
In Studies HMATa/b, HMAYa/b and HMBHa/b investigators and patients were blinded to the time at 
which randomisation to active treatment occurred and were told patients might receive between 0 and 
2  weeks  of  placebo.  Patients  in  protocols  HMAT  and  HMAY  received  1  week  of  placebo  lead-in, 
whereas patients in protocol HMBH received no placebo lead-in at all. Thus, the duration of the active 
therapy period was different among the studies: 8 weeks for Protocols HMAT and HMAY; 9 weeks 
for Protocol HMBH. 
Study HMBC consisted of five phases: an initial screening phase, followed by a 12-week, open-label 
acute  phase  (for  separating  patients  who  responded  to  duloxetine);  patients  who  responded  to 
duloxetine  entered  the  26-week,  double  blind  continuation  phase  for  determination  of  relapse 
prevention; if patients relapsed, they could enter an optional rescue phase or go straight to the follow-
up  phase.  Response  criteria  for  entry  into  the  continuation  phase  were  defined  as  meeting  the 
following at both Weeks 10 and 12 of acute phase treatment: HAMD17 ≤9, CGI-Severity ≤2 and not 
meeting  DSM-IV  criteria  for  major  depressive  episode.  Patients  who  entered  the  continuation  phase 
were evaluated for re-emergence (defined as a HAMD17 ≥12) and primary for relapse (an increase in 
19/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  CGI-Severity  score  of  at  least  two  points  relative  to  randomisation  baseline  for  two  consecutive 
visits and meeting the criteria for major depressive episode for two consecutive visits (MINI)). 
Study Participants 
Patients,  for  inclusion,  had  to  meet  the  DSM-IV  criteria  for  MDD.  All  enrolled  patients  had  a 
HAMD17  total  score  ≥15  (≥18  for  Study  HMBC)  and  a  CGI-Severity  score  ≥4  at  Visits  1  and  2. 
Diagnosis was confirmed by the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI), with current 
episode  duration  of  ≥2  weeks.  In  Study  HMBC,  patients  must  have  had  at  least  one  previous  major 
depressive episode. No baseline differences between groups were observed for some demographic and 
pathological characteristics in any of these studies.  
Patients were excluded from the Phase 3 studies if they had any current and primary psychiatric (Axis 
I) disorder other than MDD, including but not limited to dysthymia; any previous diagnosis of bipolar 
disorders,  schizophrenia,  or  other  psychotic  disorders;  any  anxiety  disorder  as  a  primary  diagnosis 
within  the  past  year;  the  presence  of  a  personality  (Axis  II)  disorder  which,  in  the  judgment  of  the 
investigator, would have interfered with compliance with the study protocol; a lack of response in the 
current episode to two or more adequate courses of antidepressant therapy at a clinically appropriate 
dose  for  a  minimum  of  4  weeks;  serious  medical  illness;  electroconvulsive  therapy  within  the  past 
year; were using a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) within 2 to 5 weeks prior to Visit 1 (within 
14 days prior to Visit 2 for Study HMBC); were using fluoxetine within 4 to 5 weeks prior to Visit 1 
(within  30  days  prior  to  Visit  2  for  Study  HMBC);  were  judged  to  be  at  serious  suicidal  risk;  were 
initiating  or  stopping  psychotherapy  within  6  weeks  prior  to  enrolment,  or  were  initiating 
psychotherapy at any time during the study. Women who were pregnant were also excluded. 
Endpoints 
The primary efficacy measure used in all duloxetine Phase 3 studies of MDD was the HAMD17 
(mean change from baseline), with the exception of  the relapse prevention Study HMBC,  where the 
primary efficacy measure was the time to relapse.  
Secondary efficacy measures were: 
HAMD17 Response and Remission rates were analyzed in all principal efficacy studies. Response was 
defined  as  a  ≥50%  reduction  in  the  HAMD17  total  score  from  baseline  to  endpoint.  Remission  was 
defined as a HAMD17 total score ≤7 at endpoint. 
HAMD17 Subscales included the Core subscale (items 1, 2, 3, 7, and 8) and the Maier subscale (items 
1,  2,  7,  8,  9,  and  10),  which  consisted  of  items  thought  to  represent  the  “core”  symptoms  of 
depression.  The  Anxiety/Somatization  subscale  of  the  HAMD17  (items  10,  11,  12,  13,  15,  and  17) 
evaluated  severity  of  psychic  and  somatic  manifestations  of  anxiety  as  well  as  agitation.  The 
Retardation/Somatization  subscale (items 1, 7, 8, and 14) evaluated dysfunction in  mood, work, and 
sexual activity, as well as overall motor retardation. The Sleep subscale (items 4, 5, and 6) evaluated 
initial, middle, and late insomnia. 
Montgomery and Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), used to measure severity of depressive 
mood symptoms.  
Clinical  Global  Impressions  of  Improvement  (CGI-Improvement),  to  measure  the  degree  of 
improvement at the time of assessment. 
Clinical Global Impressions of Severity (CGI-Severity),to record the severity of illness at the time of 
assessment. 
Patient’s  Global  Impressions  of  Improvement  (PGI-Improvement),  was  completed  by  the  patient  to 
measure the degree of improvement at the time of assessment. 
Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAMA), that measures the presence and severity of anxiety. The 14-
item version of this scale was used to assess the severity of anxiety and its improvement during the 
course of therapy. 
20/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Beck  Depression  Inventory-II  (BDI-II)  scale  was  completed  by  the  patient  and  rated  the  severity  of 
depression and its improvement during the course of therapy. 
Health  outcome  measures  such  as  the  Quality  of  Life  in  Depression  Scale  (QLDS)  that  measures 
change in subjective well-being, the Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS) , which assess a patient’s degree 
of disability and the Short Form 36 Health Survey (SF-36). 
Somatic symptom and pain measures such as the Visual Analog Scales (VAS, to assess the severity of 
overall  pain),  the  Somatic  Symptom  Inventory  (SSI)  and  the  Symptom  Questionnaire  –  Somatic 
Subscale  (SQ-SS,  which  focuses  on  somatic  symptoms)  and  the  HAMD17  Item  13  (a  post  hoc 
measure of the body pain). 
Statistical methods 
All analyses were conducted on an intent-to-treat basis (patients had to have a baseline and at least one 
non-missing post-baseline measurement). Although the protocols of the Acute Phase Studies specified 
a  repeated  measure  analysis  as  the  primary  methodology  for  efficacy  analysis,  an  analysis  of 
covariance (ANCOVA) for the mean change (LOCF) from baseline to endpoint was presented based 
in response to a recommendation given by the CPMP and thus, is considered valid since the results of 
the  repeated  measure  analysis  were  also  provided  and  were  consistent  with  the  new  analysis. 
However,  since  the  rate  of  discontinuation  in  duloxetine  (as  expected  in  studies  in  MDD)  was 
considerably  high  (around  30%  as  a  mean),  and  considering  that  most  patients  on  active  therapy 
discontinue due to AEs while lack of efficacy is the usual cause of discontinuation in the placebo arm 
studies,  the  LOCF  might  not  be  a  conservative  approach  when  imputing  missing  data.  A  sensitivity 
analyses was therefore requested to the Applicant. The results provided by the Applicant supported the 
robustness of the observed effect. The Relapse Prevention Study focused on the differences between 
duloxetine and placebo on time-to-relapse using a log-rank statistic. 
RESULTS 
Studies HMBHA and HMBHB 
The primary efficacy evaluation in these studies was a comparison between the duloxetine 60mg QD 
and placebo treatment groups at visit 8. 
For  study  HMBHa,  a  statistically  significantly  greater  decrease  on  the  primary  efficacy  measure, 
HAMD17 total score, was seen for duloxetine 60 mg QD (LS mean change = -9.47, p<.001) compared 
with  placebo  (LS  mean  change  =  -5.67)  by  mean  change  analysis.  Repeated  measures  analysis 
produced similar results. Compared with placebo-treated patients, patients treated with duloxetine 60 
mg  QD  also  showed  statistically  significantly  higher  rates  of  response  (duloxetine  = 45%,  placebo 
= 23%, p<.001) and remission (duloxetine = 31%, placebo = 15%, p=.003). Duloxetine 60 mg QD was 
also statistically significantly superior to placebo on several secondary efficacy measures. 
For  study  HMBHb,  also  statistically  significantly  greater  decrease  on  the  primary  efficacy  measure, 
was  seen  for  duloxetine  60  mg  QD  (LS  mean  change  = -8.75,  p=.048)  compared  with  placebo  (LS 
mean change = -7.02) by mean change analysis. Repeated measures analysis produced similar results. 
Compared  with  placebo-treated  patients,  patients  treated  with  duloxetine  60  mg  QD  also  had 
statistically significantly higher rates of response (duloxetine = 50%, placebo = 35%, p=.017), but not 
remission (duloxetine = 32%, placebo = 24%, p= .212). Also superiority for several secondary efficacy 
measures was demonstrated. 
However  these  results,  the  observed  effect  is  modest  (especially  in  study  “b”)  and  not  completely 
consistent between both trials 
Studies HMATa and HMATb 
The primary efficacy evaluation in these studies was a comparison between the duloxetine 20 mg BID, 
duloxetine  40  mg  BID,  and  placebo  treatment  groups  at  Visit  8.  The  protocol  also  intended  to 
21/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
demonstrate  the  noninferiority  of  duloxetine  compared  with  paroxetine  using  combined  data  from 
Studies HMATa and HMATb.  
Around 80% of the patients had moderate to severe MDD in both studies 
For study HMATa, there were no statistically significant differences between duloxetine 20 mg BID 
and  placebo  or  between  duloxetine  40  mg  BID  and  placebo  on  the  primary  efficacy  measure, 
HAMD17 total score, by mean change analysis. There was also no statistically significant difference 
between these treatment groups for response or remission rates. However, duloxetine 20 mg BID and 
40  mg BID were statistically significantly superior to placebo on some secondary efficacy measures 
(HAMD17  subscales  and  HAMD17  Item  1,  QLDS  score  and  CGI-Severity).  Repeated  measures 
analysis produced similar results 
For study HMATb, a statistically significantly greater decrease on the primary efficacy measure  was 
seen for duloxetine 20  mg BID dosing (LS mean change = -6.08, p=.022) and for duloxetine  40  mg 
BID  (LS  mean  change  = -6.77,  p=.003compared  with  placebo  (LS  mean  change  = -3.67)  by  mean 
change analysis. There was no statistically significant difference between the duloxetine 20 mg BID 
and placebo treatment groups for response or remission rates. Nevertheless, compared with placebo-
treated patients, patients treated with duloxetine 40 mg BID also had statistically significantly higher 
rates  of  response  (duloxetine  = 51%,  placebo  = 31%,  p= .009)  and  remission  (duloxetine  = 
50%, 
placebo  = 30%,  p=.008).  Repeated  measures  analysis  produced  similar  result.  In  contrast  to 
Duloxetine 20  mg BID, Duloxetine 40 mg BID was statistically significantly superior to placebo on 
several secondary efficacy measures (included the MADRS scale) 
According  to  these  studies,  it  cannot  be  concluded  on  the  efficacy  of  Duloxetine  20  mg  BID  over 
placebo  in  the  acute  treatment  of  MDD.  However,  duloxetine  40  mg  BID  has  a  greater  effect  than 
placebo in the acute treatment of MDD. 
Studies HMAYa and HMAYb 
The primary efficacy evaluation in these studies was a comparison between duloxetine 60 mg BID and 
placebo treatment groups at Week 8. The protocol also intended to demonstrate the noninferiority of 
duloxetine compared with paroxetine using combined data from Studies HMAYa and HMAYb 
In  study  HMAYa,  a  statistically  significantly  mean  decrease  on  the  primary  efficacy  measure, 
HAMD17 total score, was seen for paroxetine 20 mg QD (LS mean change =-10.83), for duloxetine 
40  mg  BID  (LS  mean  change  =-10.22)  and  for  duloxetine  60  mg  BID  (LS  mean  change  =-11.06) 
compared  with  placebo  (LS  mean  change  =-8.07)  by  mean  change  analysis.  Repeated  measures 
analysis  produced  similar  results.  Compared  with  placebo-treated  patients,  patients  treated  with 
duloxetine  40  mg  and  60  mg  BID  also  had  statistically  significantly  higher  rates  of  response 
(duloxetine 40 mg=65%, duloxetine 60 mg =71%, and placebo =44%) and remission (duloxetine 40 
mg =46%, duloxetine 60 mg= 52%, and placebo =30%). 
Duloxetine  40  mg  and  60  mg  BID  were  statistically  significantly  superior  to  placebo  on  several 
secondary efficacy measures by mean change analysis. Repeated measures analysis produced similar 
results 
Study  HMAYb  did  not  find  statistically  significant  differences  between  either  of  the  duloxetine 
dosages (40 mg and 60 mg BID) compared to placebo. It was argued that an additional analysis of the 
treatment-by-investigator interaction to  the  model showed a statistically significant effect,  indicating 
that  the  difference  between  duloxetine  60  mg  BID  and  placebo  differed  significantly  among 
investigative sites.  
Study HMBC 
Patients  treated  with  duloxetine  60  mg  QD  had  a  statistically  significantly  longer  time  to  relapse 
(primary  efficacy  measure)  than  patients  treated  with  placebo.  The  estimated  (Kaplan-Meier) 
probabilities  of  relapse  by  182  days  were  19.7%  for  duloxetine  60  mg  QD  and  38.3%  for  placebo 
(p=.004). During the 6-month continuation phase, 17.4% of duloxetine-treated patients met the criteria 
for relapse compared with 28.5% on placebo (p = .042). A total of 58 patients assigned to placebo in 
the continuation phase were given duloxetine 60 mg QD in the rescue phase , and 29 patients assigned 
22/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to  duloxetine  60  mg  QD  in  the  continuation  phase  were  given  duloxetine  60  mg  BID  in  the  rescue 
phase. Of the 56 patients assigned to duloxetine 60 mg QD, 43 (76.8%) responded to therapy and 32 
(57.1%)  met  remission  criteria.  Of  the  29  patients  assigned  to  duloxetine  60  mg  BID,  18  (62.1%) 
responded to therapy and 11 (37.9%) met remission criteria. 
In  the  view  of  the  CHMP,  the  main  outcome  of  this  study  confirms  the  results  of  the  continuation 
phase (i.e. the assessment of the time to relapse) and, in this sense, it  has been shown a statistically 
significantly longer time to relapse and a lower percentage of relapse (17.4% on duloxetine vs 28.5% 
on  placebo)  in  those  patients  treated  with  duloxetine  60  mg  QD  compared  to  those  treated  with 
placebo. 
The Applicant also concluded that patients who had responded to duloxetine 60 mg QD and relapsed 
while  still  on  duloxetine  60  mg  QD  or  after  being  randomised  to  placebo,  benefited  from  a  dosage 
increase  to  60  mg  BID  (120  mg  daily)  or  from  reintroduction  of  duloxetine  60  mg  QD  therapy. 
However,  these  conclusions  are  based  on  few  patients  and  in  the  CHMP’s  view,  the  evidence 
produced in this regard is still limited 
Comparison of Efficacy Results of All Phase III Acute Studies 
The following table presents the HAMD17 total score at baseline, least-squares mean change and p-
value comparison with placebo for the Phase III acute studies. 
HAMD17 Total Score Mean Change from Baseline to Endpoint Phase III Acute Studies. 
Study 
Treatment 
Group 
HMATa  PLACEBO 
DLX 20 BID 
DLX 40 BID 
PRX 20 QD 
HMATb  PLACEBO 
DLX 20 BID 
DLX 40 BID 
PRX 20 QD 
HMAYa  PLACEBO 
DLX 40 BID 
DLX 60 BID 
PRX 20 QD 
HMAYb PLACEBO 
DLX 40 BID 
DLX 60 BID 
PRX 20 QD 
HMBHa  PLACEBO 
DLX 60 QD 
HMBHb  PLACEBO 
DLX 60 QD 
N 
89 
90 
81 
87 
88 
84 
86 
84 
93 
93 
93 
85 
99 
93 
102 
97 
115 
121 
136 
123 
Baseline 
Mean 
17.79 
17.47 
17.44 
17.97 
17.19 
18.63 
18.06 
17.65 
19.86 
19.88 
20.17 
20.26 
20.58 
21.30 
21.38 
21.03 
21.09 
21.50 
20.49 
20.28 
SD 
4.73 
5.20 
5.16 
5.87 
5.11 
5.85 
4.52 
5.13 
3.58 
3.54 
3.41 
4.14 
3.73 
2.96 
4.46 
3.38 
3.71 
4.10 
3.42 
3.32 
Change 
LS Mean 
-4.14 
-5.30 
-5.59 
-5.96 
-3.67 
-6.08 
-6.77 
-5.18 
-8.07 
-10.22 
-11.06 
-10.83 
-10.13 
-11.06 
-11.64 
-10.61 
-5.67 
-9.47 
-7.02 
-8.75 
95% CI 
p-Value Comparison 
with Placebo 
(-3.05, 0.71) 
(-3.38, 0.47) 
(-3.72, 0.06) 
(-4.47, -0.35) 
(-5.15, -1.06) 
(-3.56, 0.55) 
.222 
.138 
.058 
.022 
.003 
.150 
(-3.73, -0.58) 
(-4.56, -1.41) 
(-4.37, -1.15) 
.007 
<.001 
.001 
(-2.53, 0.67) 
(-3.06, 0.02) 
(-2.07, 1.11) 
.253 
.054 
.552 
(-5.55, -2.05) 
<.001 
(-3.45, -0.02) 
.048 
Abbreviations: HAMD17 = 17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale; BID = twice-daily; CI = confidence interval; DLX = duloxetine; LS 
= least squares,; PRX = paroxetine; QD = once-daily; SD = standard deviation. 
There were four statistically positive acute studies(HMATb, HMAYa, HMBHa, and HMBHb), that is, 
studies  in  which  duloxetine  was  statistically  superior  to  placebo  on  the  primary  efficacy  measure 
(change from baseline in HAMD17) and two negative studies. 
The  results  of  the  response  and  remission  rates  were  consistent  with  the  primary  efficacy  results. 
These differences in the primary efficacy measures from placebo were seen at duloxetine doses of 20 
mg BID, 60 mg QD, 40 mg BID, and 60 mg BID. However, these differences were not consistently 
seen  throughout  the  studies  and  for  the  same  doses:  duloxetine  20  mg  BID  and  40  mg  BID  were 
superior  to  placebo  in  study  HMATb  but  were  not  superior  to  placebo  in  the  apparently  identical 
Study HMATa; duloxetine 40 mg BID and 60 mg BID were superior to placebo in Study HMAYa but 
not  in  Study  HMAYb,  that  were  also  apparently  identical.  These  discrepancies  could  not  be 
considered  by  themselves  a  matter  of  special  concern,  since  negative  studies  are  not  uncommon  in 
23/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MDD  due  to  the  lack  of  sensitivity.  For  this  reason,  the  inclusion  of  an  internal  positive  control 
adequately dosed is a crucial aspect in these studies. In this regard, although paroxetine is frequently 
uptitrated in clinical practice, and the available evidence of a dose-response relationship is lacking, 20 
mg daily of paroxetine can be considered an acceptable active control. 
A  non-inferiority  comparison,  based  on  the  per-protocol  subset  of  patients,  between  duloxetine  and 
paroxetine 20 mg QD was also established in the HMAT and HMAY protocols. The validity of this 
non-inferiority approach is questionable due to a number of relevant reasons: 
Based upon a pre-specified non-inferiority margin of 2.2, duloxetine at doses of 20 and 40 mg BID in 
studies HMATa and HMATb combined and 40 and 60 mg BID in studies HMAYa/b was noninferior 
to paroxetine. However, the specified non-inferiority margin appears quite wide (2.2 in the HAMD17), 
and the reason for its selection is not considered justified by the CHMP. In any case, and considering 
the  observed  differences  in  the  HAMD17  between  paroxetine  and  placebo  in  these  four  trials  (from 
0.48 in study HMAYb to 2,76 in study HMAYa) the proposed delta should not be accepted. A more 
stringent analysis using a noninferiority margin of one-half of the gain of paroxetine over placebo was 
also performed. Duloxetine at a dose of 40 mg BID (Studies HMATa and HMATb) and 60 mg BID 
(Studies  HMAYa  and  HMAYb)  was  noninferior  to  paroxetine,  as  illustrated  graphically  by  the 
presence of the upper confidence interval of the observed difference (black triangle and line) to the left 
of  the  symbol  representing  the  half-gain  of  paroxetine  over  placebo  (open  triangle).  For  doses  of 
duloxetine  that  were  not  found  to  be  noninferior  to  paroxetine,  paroxetine  was  not  significantly 
superior to duloxetine. 
Noninferiority comparisons of DLX vs. PRX, mean change HAMD17 total score, per-protocol patients 
Even accepting that the actual results indicate non-inferiority, it was the view of the CHMP that there 
remainded the issue of the appropriateness of the severity of the patients treated.   
24/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Althought  the  efficacy  of  paroxetine  in  mild  MDD  has  not  been  shown,  the  MAH  has  provided  a 
stratified  analysis  by  severity  on  the  effect  of  paroxetine  as  compared  to  placebo.  As  expected, 
although there was no significant difference in treatment effects between subgroups, the magnitude of 
the  effect  is  grater  in  more  severe  patients.  However  a  superior  effect  of  paroxetine  over  placebo  is 
also observed in mild and moderate MDD. This issue was therefore resolved.  
Subgroup Analysis for Change in HAMD17 Total Score Subgroups Defined by Baseline HAMD Score and 
Number of Previous Episodes of Depression . All Randomized Patients (Paroxetine Versus Placebo). 
Studies HMAT (a& b) and HMAY (a& b). Extracted from Table 2. 3 of the Applicant response. 
Subgroup 
Base HAMD17 < 19   
N 
299 
Therapy 
PLA 
PRX 
Base HAMD17 ≥ 19 
423 
Base HAMD17 < 25   
647 
Base HAMD17 ≥ 25 
Prev. Episode  < 2 
75 
363 
Prev. Episode  ≥ 2 
358 
PLA 
PRX 
PLA 
PRX 
PLA 
PRX 
PLA 
PRX 
PLA 
PRX 
n 
155 
144 
214 
209 
340 
307 
29 
46 
180 
183 
188 
170 
Ancillary analyses 
Baseline (mean) Change (mean)  p-value 
14.75 
14.59 
21.93 
22.52 
18.22 
18.22 
27.10 
26.39 
19.09 
19.23 
18.77 
19.34 
-5.19 
-6.14 
-7.88 
-10.31 
-6.63 
-8.19 
-8.14 
-11.41 
-8.24 
-9.40 
-5.37 
-7.75 
.142 
<.001 
.002 
.024 
.043 
.0044 
Analyses by subgroups have been provided.  
A comparative analysis of efficacy in patients with different baseline HAMD17 score is presented. As 
expected,  although  there  was  no  significant  difference  in  treatment  effects  between  subgroups,  the 
treatment differences versus   placebo tend to be numerically greater with higher degrees of severity. 
The  difference  did  not  reach  statistical  significance  in  patients  with  a  baseline  HAMD17  score  >25 
probably  due  to  the  small  number  of  patients  with  severe  depression  enrolled  (120  patients).  These 
results suggest  a similar response in  patients  with  mild  or  moderate  depressive  episode (considering 
19,  the  cut-off  established  by  the  Applicant,  as  the  limit  between  mild  to  moderate  severity).  The 
effect in patients with severe MDD seems to be consistent, although the numbers are too low to draw 
valid conclusions.  
A comparative analysis based on the number of previous episodes of MDD was also performed, which 
shows a significant difference in treatment effects between patients with at least two vs. less than two 
previous  episodes  of  MDD,  with  greater  treatment  differences  in  patients  with  at  least  two  previous 
episodes.  
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
An analysis by patient’s demographic characteristics was performed. No differences between gender 
were observed. Patients older than 65 years did not achieve statistically significant differences for the 
primary  efficacy  measure,  while  patients  younger  than  65  years  did.  In  efficacy  studies  only  42 
subjects  older  than  65  years  have  been  compared  with  39  placebo-treated  controls.  For  responders,  
15/42 patients responded on duloxetine and there was a tendency towards efficacy (p<0.09)compared 
with placebo treated controls. The applicant was asked to justify the extrapolation of efficacy to this 
age group. Although acknowledging the limited available data, the Applicant argued that there is no 
reason to expect that the efficacy of duloxetine in the elderly should be different from that observed in 
the adult population, and proposed to include related wording in section 4.2 of the SPC. 
The CHMP still was of the opinion that the information on the efficacy of duloxetine in the elderly is 
limited and does not provide sound data supporting it, and asked the Applicant to commit to provide 
further  data  on  the  efficacy  of  duloxetine  in  elderly  patients,  and  to  further  highlight  in  the  relevant 
sections of the SPC, i.e 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2.  
25/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-Section  4.2  “Depression  may  have  different  features  in  the  elderly  which  make  it  difficult  to 
extrapolate efficacy and safety data from a younger population. Only limited clinical data on the use of 
CYMBALTA  in  elderly  patients  with  major  depressive  disorders  is  available.  Therefore,  caution 
should  be  exercised  when  treating  the  elderly.  Until  more  efficacy  data  are  available  the  use  of 
CYMBALTA  in  the  very  elderly  population  (>75  years)  is  not  recommended.(see  sections  4.4  and 
5.2). 
Section  4.4  “Only  limited  clinical  data  on  the  use  of  duloxetine  in  elderly  patients  with  major 
depressive disorders is available. Therefore, caution should be exercised when treating the elderly (see 
Sections 4.2 and 5.2)” 
-Section  5.2  “Age:  pharmacokinetic  differences  have  been  identified  between  younger  and  elderly 
females (≥65 years) (AUC increases by about 25% and half-life is about 25% longer in the elderly), 
although  the  magnitude  of  these  changes  is  not  sufficient  to  justify  adjustments  to  the  dose.  As  a 
general recommendation, caution should be exercised when treating the elderly (see sections 4.2 and 
4.4).” 
•  Supportive studies 
Studies  HMAYa  and  HMAYb  did  also  include  a  long-term  treatment  phase.  Patients  who  met  the 
response criterion (≥30% decrease in HAMD17 total score from baseline to Week 8) were eligible to 
enter in a 26 weeks double blind continuation treatment period. Maintenance of efficacy response with 
long-term treatment of duloxetine 40 mg BID, 60 mg BID, placebo, and paroxetine was defined as a 
>10% increase in HAMD17 total score. The Applicant claims that the results were similar when only 
patients  with  response  defined  as  ≥50%  reduction  in  HAMD17  total  score  at  the  end  of  the  acute 
treatment phase were included. 
A  total  of  273  and  293  patients  entered  the  continuation  phases  of  Studies  HMAYa  and  HMAYb, 
respectively. Most patients in the duloxetine 40 mg BID (90.0% and 91.4%, respectively), 60 mg BID 
(93.2%  and  85%,  respectively),  and  placebo  (70.7%  and  84.3%,  respectively)  treatment  groups 
maintained full response. In addition, patients treated with duloxetine 40 mg BID or 60 mg BID had 
statistically significantly longer time to first non-response compared with placebo-treated patients. 
The  results  of  these  studies  could  be  considered  as  supporting  data,  since  according  to  the  CPMP 
guidance  (CPMP/EWP/518/97  Rev  1),  the  long-term  efficacy  should  be  demonstrated  in  terms  of 
Relapse Prevention and Recurrence Prevention.  
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
As previously commented no formal dose-finding studies have been performed. The only conclusion 
coming from the early phase II studies (“low doses studies”) regarding the dose recommendation was 
the lack of effect at doses up to 30 mg QD. Two additional phase II studies (HMAQa/b) showed a lack 
of effect with the 60 mg BID, however, these studies had only an exploratory nature and did not allow 
to  draw  valid  conclusions.  As  a  consequence,  the  Applicant  started  the  phase  III  acute  treatment 
studies using different dosages non-previously tested, that is: 20mg BID, 40 mg BID, 60 mg BID and 
60 mg QD. Based on the results of these studies, the Applicant recommends the use of Duloxetine 60 
mg  QD  as  the  starting  and  the  effective  maintenance  dose  in  the  treatment  of  MDD.  The  main 
argument given by the Applicant to support this dosage was that 60 mg QD was the only dosage that 
demonstrated superiority over placebo in the two studies in which was tested (in contrast to that seen 
for the remaining dosages for which superiority over placebo was only seen in a half of the studies in 
which were tested). 
In  addition,  duloxetine  60  mg  used  once  daily  (HMBH  a  and  b)  was  not  compared  to  any  active 
control.  
The Applicant has provided several effect-size analyses indicating that the effect of the QD dosing is 
comparable to the BID regimens of duloxetine and the QD regimen of paroxetine. In the view of the 
CHMP there are a number of reasons precluding such conclusion being firmly drawn. As recognised 
by  the  MAH,  those  studies  including  paroxetine  as  the  active  comparator  and  a  duloxetine  BID 
regimen (HMAY and HMAT) were substantially different from study HMBH, in which the proposed 
26/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dosage  (duloxetine  60  mg  QD)  was  compared  to  placebo.  Neither  the  severity  of  the  enrolled 
population (milder in studies HMAT and HMAY) nor the study design (the first two studies had a lead 
in  period  with  placebo)  allow  to  make  a  reliable  comparison  between  both  duloxetine  regimens.  It 
cannot  be  ruled  out  that  the  differences  among  these  studies  (severity  of  the  population  and  lead  in 
period) may have lead to a relative overestimation of the effect of the 60 mg QD regimen. However, 
accepting  that  such  differences  among  dose  regimens  might  exist,  the  effect-size  analysis  clearly 
indicates  that,  if  any,  the  dose  response  relationship  for  duloxetine  (as  for  the  SSRI)  must  be  rather 
flat. In view of such circumstance, the CHMP agrees that the lowest daily effective dose level showing 
an effect of about a similar magnitude as that for paroxetine 20 mg is the preferred one. 
Dosages above 60 mg once daily, up to a maximum dose of 120 mg per day administered in evenly 
divided  doses,  have  been  evaluated  from  a  safety  perspective  in  clinical  trials,  and  this  regimen  is 
proposed for clinical practice. As for the data submitted a dose-response relationship for duloxetine in 
MDD  within  the  dose  range  of  80  to  120  mg  daily  is  difficult  to  be  concluded.  Moreover,  the  data 
directly supporting the benefit of uptitrating the dose of duloxetine in patients not responding to the 
initially recommended dose are limited and only referred to the maintenance phase of the treatment. 
However, it is agreed that some kind of flexibility is needed in order to mimic what is clinical practice 
in  the  pharmacological  treatment  of  MDD.  An  additional  SPC  statement,  would  allow  the  proposed 
posology,  stating  that  no  clinical  evidence  suggests  that  patients  not  responding  to  the  initial 
recommended dose may benefit from dose uptitrations. . 
Although inconsistent across similar studies, duloxetine has shown to be effective in the treatment of 
MDD.The  applied  dose  60  mg  QD  has  been  studied  in  two  short-term  and  one  relapse  prevention 
study.  In  all  three  studies  statistically  significant  effects  have  been  demonstrated.  The  magnitude  of 
effect,  with  respect  to  short-term  effect  as  well  as  maintenance  of  effect,  is  comparable  to  what  is 
usually  seen  for  antidepressant  drugs.  The  short-term  effect  is  supported  by  similar  effects 
demonstrated for BID administration in the dose range of 40-60 mg. Therefore it is concluded that an 
antidepressant effect has been adequately demonstrated.  
Duloxetine has been shown to statistically significantly increase the time to relapse and to reduce the 
rate of relapse as compared to placebo.  
Clinical safety 
The integrated safety data were classified into three databases based on duloxetine dosage, treatment 
indications and study design.  
The primary safety database includes data from all Phase 2 and Phase 3 studies of patients with major 
depressive  disorder  (MDD)  completed  by  the  cut-off  date  of  25  April  2003.  The  primary  safety 
database  consists  of  acute  and  long-term  data  from  Studies  HMAQa,  HMAQb,  HMATa,  HMATb, 
HMAYa, HMAYb, HMBHa, HMBHb, and HMAU. A total of 2241 patients in these studies received 
duloxetine  at  or  above  the  recommended  antidepressant  dose  of  60  mg  QD.  The  primary  safety 
database has five subdivisions: 
·  Overall  MDD  dataset,  containing  acute  and  long-term  data  from  all  duloxetine-treated  patients  in 
Studies HMAQ (a, b), HMAT (a, b), HMAY (a, b), HMBH (a, b), and HMAU. 
· Placebo-controlled MDD dataset, containing acute data from placebo-controlled Studies HMAQ (a, 
b), HMAT (a, b), HMAY (a, b), and HMBH (a, b). 
·  Paroxetine-controlled  MDD  dataset,  containing  acute  data  from  the  4  paroxetine-controlled  MDD 
studies. 
· Controlled, long-term MDD dataset, containing long-term (26-week continuation) data from placebo-
controlled Studies HMAYa and HMAYb. 
· Uncontrolled long-term MDD dataset, containing long-term (52-week) data from Study HMAU. 
The  secondary  safety  database  includes  data  on  duloxetine-  and  placebo-treated  women  from  all 
completed  double-blind  stress  urinary  incontinence  (SUI)  studies  in  which  subjects  were  randomly 
assigned to a dose of 40 mg twice daily (BID) throughout. Data from all women enrolled in the long-
term, open-label SUI studies are also included. 
27/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The tertiary safety database consists of data from clinical pharmacology studies, completed SUI and 
MDD  studies  not  included  in  the  primary  safety  database,  historical  lower  urinary  tract  disorder 
(LUTD) and historical low-dose MDD studies in which patients were randomised to a dose less than 
duloxetine 20 mg BID or to placebo, completed pain studies, and completed Japanese clinical studies.  
A  relapse  prevention  study  (Study  HMBC)  provides  further  long-term  controlled  safety  data  for  a 
period of up to 6 months and safety data from patients receiving 60 mg QD who increased their dose 
to 60 mg BID during a rescue therapy phase. 
•  Patient exposure 
The  safety  database  for  duloxetine  consists  of  9173  patients.  Of  that  total,  8545  were  exposed  to 
duloxetine  in  clinical  studies,  and  628  were  exposed  to  duloxetine  in  clinical  pharmacology  studies. 
The  data  cut-off  date  for  reporting  deaths  is  15  September  2003.  The  data  cut-off  dates  for  the 
remainder of the information were 07 March 2003 for SUI studies and 25 April 2003 for all others. 
The primary MDD safety database comprises a total of 2418 patients who were exposed to duloxetine 
over the course of 9 completed clinical MDD studies, including long-term treatment of up to 52 weeks 
with duloxetine, equivalent to 1099 patient-years of exposure. The mean age of the patients was 43.59 
years,  ranging  from  18  to  87  years  (82.8%  <  55  years  of  age);  70%  were  female  and  64.4%  were 
Caucasian. 
Weight  was  the  only  baseline  patient  characteristic  with  a  significant  difference  between  treatment 
groups,  with  placebo-treated  patients  beginning  treatment  at  a  lower  body  weight  (78.3  kg)  than 
duloxetine-treated  patients  (79.7  kg).  The  demographic  profile  of  patients  in  long-term  studies  was 
comparable to that observed in acute studies.  
Of  the  2418  duloxetine  patients,  1046  (43.3%)  participated  in  studies  in  Mexico  or  South  America, 
384 (15.9%) participated in studies in Europe, and 988 (40.9%) participated in studies in the United 
States or Canada. Demographics of populations tended to be similar. 
A  total  of  2241  patients  in  these  studies  received  duloxetine  at  or  above  the  recommended 
antidepressant dose of 60-mg QD. A further 533 patients were exposed to duloxetine in the relapse-
prevention Study HMBC, adding a further 160 patient-years of exposure in total. Considered together, 
the primary safety database plus Study HMBC add up to a total of 2,951 duloxetine exposures, and a 
total of 1,259 patient-years of exposure. Among these patients, 1,409 had > 6 months of exposure to 
duloxetine,  and  445  had  >  12  months  of  exposure  to  duloxetine.  These  numbers  meet  the  ICH 
guidelines for exposure for new drugs. 
•  Adverse events  
A total of 84.9% (2052/2418) of the duloxetine treated subjects in the overall MDD dataset reported 
one or more TEAEs. A total of 73.4% (836/1139) of duloxetine patients compared to 65.1% (506/777) 
of  placebo  subjects  reported  one  or  more  TEAEs  in  the  placebo-controlled  MDD  dataset.  These 
figures  were  64.1%  (472/736)  and  61.6%  (221/359)  of  duloxetine  and  paroxetine  patients  in  the 
paroxetine-controlled dataset. 
Most adverse events reported by duloxetine-treated subjects in both the overall and placebo-controlled 
MDD datasets were in the MedDRA system organ classes of gastrointestinal tract and central nervous 
system.  The  common  events  included  in  these  system  organ  classes  were  nausea,  constipation,  dry 
mouth, headache, and dizziness. 
Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) in the primary safety database for which the incidence in 
the duloxetine treatment group was ≥5.0% and significantly greater than the incidence in the placebo 
group  were  nausea  (19.9%  vs  6.9%),  dry  mouth  (14.6%  vs  6.3%),  constipation  (11.4%  vs  4.0%), 
insomnia  (9.9%  vs  6.0%),  dizziness  (8.9%  vs  4.8%),  fatigue  (8.3%  vs  3.7%),  somnolence  (7.1%  vs 
2.7%), increased sweating (6.1% vs 1.5%) and decreased appetite (5.9% vs 1.9%). 
28/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common Adverse Events by Decreasing Frequency 
All Randomized Patients 
Placebo-Controlled, Paroxetine-Controlled, and 
Overall MDD Datasets 
Placebo-Controlled 
PBO 
N=777 
% 
6.9 
16.9 
6.3 
4.0 
6.0 
4.8 
3.7 
5.5 
2.7 
1.5 
1.9 
2.6 
1.3 
0.8 
0.5 
0.5 
0.0 
0.8 
DLX 
N=1139 
% 
19.9 
15.0 
14.6 
11.4 
9.9 
8.9 
8.3 
7.7 
7.1 
6.1 
5.9 
4.6 
3.6 
2.7 
2.5 
2.4 
2.2 
2.1 
Paroxetine-Controlled  Overall 
DLX  
DLX 
N=2418 
N=736
% 
27.6 
23.5 
19.4 
16.8 
21.5 
16.6 
9.5 
11.1 
19.2 
10.9 
7.1 
7.0 
3.2 
6.2 
3.4 
2.7 
1.5 
1.7 
p-val a 
.302 
1.00 
.727 
.190 
.123 
1.00 
.886 
.782 
.688 
.314 
.017 
.591 
.679 
.846 
.825 
.044 
.653 
.291 
PRX 
N=359 
% 
12.0 
12.3 
7.8 
7.8 
6.1 
5.8 
5.0 
6.1 
6.4 
4.2 
1.4 
2.8 
2.8 
3.1 
2.2 
0.3 
1.7 
0.8 
N/A 
p-val a  % 
14.4 
<.001 
12.5 
 .278 
8.6 
<.001 
10.3 
<.001 
9.0 
 .002 
6.1 
<.001 
5.4 
<.001 
5.6 
 .065 
5.8 
<.001 
5.7 
<.001 
4.2 
<.001 
3.5 
.027 
2.3 
.002 
2.7 
.002 
2.0 
<.001 
1.8 
.001 
2.2 
<.001 
1.8 
.024 
N/A 
4.2 
0.8 
.013 
6.6 
Event  
Nausea 
Headache NOS 
Dry mouth 
Constipation 
Insomnia 
Dizziness  
Fatigue 
Diarrhea NOS 
Somnolence 
Sweating increased 
Appetite decreased NOS 
Vomiting NOS 
Vision blurred 
Tremor 
Libido decreased 
Weight decreased 
Anorgasmia 
Hot flushes NOS 
Erectile dysfunction 
NOSb 
Ejaculation delayedb 
Ejaculation disorderb 
.138 
.096 
Abbreviations: DLX = duloxetine; N/A = not available; NOS = not otherwise specified; PBO = placebo; PRX = paroxetine; 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
4.9 
3.3 
2.6 
2.1 
0.8 
0.4 
p-val = p-value. 
a Fisher’s exact test. bAdjusted for gender. 
Source: FQTESB1A, FQTESB1P, FQTESB1O, FQTESSMC 
The  frequencies  of  these  same  common  TEAEs  for  the  secondary  and  tertiary  safety  databases  are 
generally consistent with the primary safety database 
The only significant difference observed between duloxetine and paroxetine in paroxetine-controlled 
dataset was for appetite decreased, for which the incidence was higher for duloxetine. As paroxetine, a 
SSRI, appears to have a similar profile, most events appear to referable to the serotonergic system.  
Most TEAEs appeared early on in duloxetine treatment. Nausea and dizziness fell off during the first 
few weeks of treatment. Dry mouth, constipation, insomnia, somnolence, and decreased appetite also 
appear early but subside more slowly. Two adverse events, fatigue and increased sweating, persisted 
during treatment with duloxetine. 
The  adverse  events  reported  regarding  sexual  dysfunction,  dizziness  and  syncope,  hypomania  and 
manic  reactions,  bleeding  disorders,  and  self-directed  harm  risk  are  considered  due  to  the 
pharmacodynamic action of duloxetine and/or the underlying disease.  
There were 4 treatment-emergent seizure events reported during the duloxetine clinical program. All 
of  them  were  reported  in  duloxetine-treated  patients.  No  placebo-  or  paroxetine-treated  patients 
experienced seizures. There were no cases of seizures among patients included in the secondary safety 
database.  
29/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Long-term  safety  data  up  to  52  weeks  provided  show  a  comparable  profile  to  that  described  for  the 
acute phase except for weight increased, viral infection NOS, anxiety, back pain and arthralgia. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Serious adverse events 
In  the  overall  MDD  dataset,  the  incidence  of  SAEs  for  duloxetine-treated  patients  was  3.1%. 
Duloxetine  group  showed  a  lower  incidence  of  SAEs  in  short-term  controlled  studies  than  that 
reported by placebo or paroxetine. 
Of  the  13.5%  (10/74)  of  SAEs  in  the  duloxetine  group  that  were  considered  by  investigators  to  be 
related or possibly related to study drug, half could be considered related to the patients’ disease states 
(abnormal  behavior,  hypomania,  mania,  suicidal  ideation,  uncontrollable  anger).  The  others  were 
abdominal pain, allergic reaction, confusional state, and syncope, the latter concerning a patient who 
fainted after consumption of alcohol. 
Summary of Serious Adverse Events 
All Enrolled or Randomized Patients 
Primary Safety Database 
Duloxetine 
Placebo 
Paroxetine 
Possibly 
Related 
to Study 
Drug 
10 
0 
0 
0 
10 
MDD Dataset 
n/N 
% 
n/N  %
Possibly 
Related 
to Study 
Drug 
n/N 
% 
Possibly 
Related 
to Study 
Drug 
Overall a 
Placebo-controlled 
Paroxetine-controlled 
Controlled long-term 
Uncontrolled long-term 
Abbreviations:  MDD  =  major  depressive  disorder;  n  =  number  of  patients  with  an  event;  N  =  total  number  of  patients  in 
74/2418  3.1 
3/1139  0.3 
2/736  0.3 
7/297  1.7 
64/1279  5.0 
4/359  1.1 
0/140  0.0 
1/129  0.8 
5/777  0.6 
0 
0 
0 
1 
dataset. 
Source: AE144004, AE140005, AE14101Q, AE142019 
In Study HMBC, during the acute therapy phase, few (3.0%) patients experienced SAEs. During the 
continuation  therapy  phase,  no  statistically  significant  differences  in  SAEs  were  observed  between 
duloxetine  (3.7%)  and  placebo  (1.4%).  No  SAEs  occurred  during  the  rescue  phase.  One  patient 
experienced an SAE during the follow-up therapy phase, which was first experienced during the acute 
therapy phase. 
The SAE profile in the secondary safety database (patients with SUI) did not differ substantially from 
that  of the  primary safety database (patients with MDD). In  the  tertiary safety  database, a relatively 
high  incidence  of  cardiovascular  SAEs  was  observed  compared  with  the  other  databases.  This  is 
probably because of the patient population, part of which was selected for having diabetes mellitus. 
Deaths 
In the entire clinical program involving over 11,000 patients, 23 deaths were reported. Eight of these 
were patients taking placebo or an active comparator. Of the remaining 15 patients on duloxetine, one 
death was considered by the investigator to be possibly related to study drug. Four duloxetine-treated 
patients  and  1  placebo-treated  patient  died  in  the  primary  (MDD)  safety  database,  and  none  of  the 
deaths were judged related to study drug. 
The  most  frequent  cause  of  death  was  suicide,  which  accounted  for  6  deaths  across  all  treatments. 
There were 4 suicide deaths out of a total of 8545 duloxetine-treated patients (0.05%) compared with 1 
suicide death out of a total of 2553 placebo-treated patients (< 0.04%). The remaining suicide death 
30/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
occurred  in  an  imipramine-treated  patient  The  only  case  of  suicide  in  a  duloxetine-treated  patient, 
which was judged by the investigator to be possibly related to study drug occurred in a female patient 
enrolled in an early low-dose Japanese duloxetine study. The patient was taking what is now known to 
be  a  subtherapeutic  dose  of  10  mg  QD  duloxetine.  It  is  highly  likely,  therefore,  that  the  patient’s 
depression  would  have  been  untreated,  or  at  best  partially  treated,  on  this  dose,  increasing  the 
likelihood of self-harm. 
The  applicant  has  committed  to  perform  a  suicide  post-marketing  surveillance  program  for  all 
medicinal products containing duloxetine. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Clinical laboratory tests (clinical chemistry, haematology, and urinalysis) were performed at baseline 
(Visit  1)  and  at  various  postbaseline  visits.  Analyses  of  all  datasets  in  the  primary  safety  database 
included mean change from baseline to endpoint and treatment-emergent abnormal high, low, or both, 
values at anytime using reference ranges defined by Covance Central Laboratory Services. 
In  the  primary  safety  database,  small  and  clinically  non-relevant  mean  changes  from  baseline  in  a 
number  of  analytes  were  observed  at  endpoint  across  all  MDD  datasets.  For  duloxetine-treated 
patients,  there  were  small  mean  decreases  in  chloride,  sodium,  inorganic  phosphorous  and  uric  acid 
values from baseline to endpoint that were significant when compared with placebo. 
Significant  decreases  in  the  mean  hematocrit  and  hemoglobin  values  of  duloxetine-treated  patients 
compared with placebo-treated patients were minor and not clinically meaningful. Though there was a 
significant baseline-to-endpoint change in mean cell volume (MCV) values, few clinically significant 
treatment-emergent  changes  were  observed  in  the  duloxetine-treated  group.  These  changes  seem  to 
have been transient, and for the most part the associated hematocrit and hemoglobin values remained 
within  normal  limits.  No  significant  difference  was  observed  between  duloxetine  and  placebo 
treatment  groups  with  respect  to  changes  in  mean  white  blood  cells  (WBC)  values  from  baseline  to 
endpoint. 
Duloxetine patients showed greater percentages of abnormal values of aspartate transaminase, alanine 
transaminase, and alkaline phosphatase than placebo patients. The incidence of ALT ≥ 3X ULN was 
0.95% for patients taking duloxetine compared with 0.23% of patients taking placebo. Values of ALT 
exceeding  10X  ULN  were  0.1%  (4/3671)  in  duloxetine-treated  patients.  Females  (4-fold  versus 
males), ≥ 65 years (2.8-fold versus < 65 years) and SUI patients (2.5-fold compared to MDD patients) 
showed a higher risk of elevated values of ALT. There were 6 cases (4 in duloxetine, 2 in placebo) of 
previously defined as severe hepatic injury (concurrent elevation of ALT and bilirubin). All duloxetine 
treated  patients  showed  additional  external  factors  (alcohol  abuse,  gall  bladder  disease)  that  could 
explain,  partly  at  last,  the  hepatic  enzyme  affection.  This  issue  has  been  extensively  and  properly 
discussed by the Applicant. 
Compared  with  placebo,  duloxetine  was  associated  with  a  significant  difference  in  mean  pulse  (1.4 
bpm vs. –0.6 bpm for placebo) and systolic BP (0.8 mmHg vs. –1.4 mm Hg for placebo). There was 
no  significant  difference  in  the  incidence  of  sustained  hypertension  (sustained  increases  of  either 
systolic  or  diastolic  pressures)  between  the  duloxetine-treated  (1.3%)  and  placebo-treated  (0.8%) 
groups in the placebo-controlled trials. When the effect was analysed in elderly patients, no evidence 
of a more pronounced effect was observed. Neither a dose relationship could be established.  
The Applicant has committed to provide data on effect on blood pressure of duloxetine in a subgroup 
of patients with pre-treatment diastolic BP of 90 mmHg or more. 
When effects of duloxetine on ECG parameters were assessed a decrease in both QT and PR intervals 
was  observed  in  patients  treated  with  duloxetine  (QTcF:  mean  decrease  of  1.46  msec  in  duloxetine 
compared to mean increase of 1.00 msec in placebo patients). It was not translated to abnormal ECGs . 
Long-term ECG findings were consistent with acute treatment.  
•  Safety in special populations 
31/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Safety data were analysed according to subgroups based on age, gender and race.  
Apart  from  dizziness,  which  was  more  common  in  older  patients,  there  were  no  clinically  relevant 
interactions in the incidence of adverse events or in sustained elevation in blood pressure observed for 
duloxetine treatment by age. Duloxetine has been studied for a number of other indications, including 
stress  urinary  incontinence  (SUI),  diabetic  neuropathic  pain  (DNP),  and  fibromyalgia  syndrome 
(FMS). The overall duloxetine exposures database consisted of 1157 patients ≥65 years old. Although 
elderly  were  considered  scarcely  represented  in  the  MDD  dataset  (4.3%,  143)    these  data  do  not 
indicate that duloxetine has a different safety profile in the elderly with MDD. However, the Applicant 
has been commited to provide additional clinical data in elderly patients with MDD. 
Females tended to report more nausea, dizziness, insomnia and headache, although differences are not 
considered of relevance. 
Non-Caucasian patients reported most AEs more frequently than did Caucasian patients. 
Significantly more ESRD subjects reported adverse events occurring on or after the only dose of the 
study drug (8 ESRD subjects reported 17 adverse events), compared with healthy subjects (1 subject 
reported  five  adverse  events).  Subjects  with  cirrhosis  Child  Pugh  class  B  experienced  more  adverse 
events although there were no serious events in any subject. Each of the 6 cirrhotic subjects reported a 
total of 35 adverse events (25 possible or probably related) versus no adverse events reported in seven 
healthy subjects. 
Twenty-eight pregnancies exposed to duloxetine at various doses were reported from all three safety 
databases. All exposures were in the first trimester. Fourteen had pregnancies that delivered apparently 
normal babies at term, and 3 delivered after premature rupture of membranes and/or preterm labour, 
with none of the infants surviving. 
No clinical trials have been conducted in the depressed paediatric population. Due to lack of clinical 
experience duloxetine should not be used in children and adolescents under the age of 18 years for the 
treatment  of  major  depressive  episode.  Safety  and  efficacy  from  data  collected  in  adults  with  major 
depressive episode cannot be extrapolated to the paediatric population. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Globally,  73.2%  of patients  in the overall  MDD dataset  used one  or  more concomitant  medications. 
The most frequently reported concomitant medications were nonnarcotic analgesics, with the number 
one  concomitant  medication  taken  by  patients  in  the  overall  MDD  dataset  being  ibuprofen  (15.8%); 
number two was paracetamol (15.4%). 
Potential interaction with analgesics was examined by comparing adverse events reported by patients 
who took analgesics with those who did not. Reports of headaches were more than twice as common 
among the group that took analgesics, which is not unexpected, given that this is the likely reason for 
such medication. Other events more commonly reported by patients taking analgesics, such as fatigue, 
diarrhoea, and sweating, may be related to concurrent illnesses, with medications such as paracetamol 
(acetaminophen) likely being taken for fever or body pain. 
A  significant  difference  was  observed  in  the  percentage  of  patients  that  used  paracetamol  in  the 
paroxetine-controlled  MDD  dataset,  with  the  highest  percentage  in  the  duloxetine-treated  group 
(10.9% versus 7.0%, p = 0.049). This is likely a coincidental finding, for no significant difference was 
observed between duloxetine and paroxetine for TEAEs related to pain. The most frequently reported 
concomitant medications were again non-narcotic analgesics. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The  overall  percentage  of  duloxetine-treated  patients  completing  acute  and  long-term  studies  was 
54.9%. The acute phase was completed by 71.8% and 76.7% of patients in placebo- and paroxetine-
controlled  studies,  with  similar  discontinuation  rates  for  duloxetine  and  comparators.  The  overall 
incidence  of  discontinuation  due  to  adverse  events  was  greater  for  the  duloxetine  group,  compared 
32/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
both with placebo (9.7% vs 4.2%; p<.001) and paroxetine (8.6% vs 7.0%; p=0.408. Nausea was the 
most common adverse event leading to discontinuation.  
In  long-term  studies  adverse  events  represented  3.7%  of  discontinuations  in  duloxetine  60  mg  QD-
treated patients (3.5% placebo) in controlled studies and 17% in uncontrolled studies.  
Discontinuation-emergent  symptoms  following  abrupt  discontinuation  after  short-term  treatment 
reported  with  a  significantly  greater  frequency  by  duloxetine-treated  than  placebo-treated  subjects 
included dizziness, nausea, headache NOS, paraesthesia, vomiting, irritability, and nightmare. Patients 
previously taking the highest dose of duloxetine (120 mg) were more likely to report adverse events 
upon discontinuation. 
Lower incidence of discontinuation adverse events were reported after long-term treatment. Tapering 
dose for a 3-day period did not seem to modify it, probably due to the shortness of the tapering period. 
Consistent with duloxetine for the treatment of SUI, a warning avoiding an abrupt discontinuation is 
included in the SPC.  
•  Post marketing experience 
Duloxetine  had  not  been  approved  for  marketing  in  any  country at  the  time  it  was  evaluated  by  the 
CHMP. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
The total duloxetine database included 9173 duloxetine-treated patients in all indications. The primary 
MDD  data  safety  database  comprises  a  total  of  2951  patients  of  which  2774  patients  received 
duloxetine  at  or  above  the  recommended  antidepressant  dose  of  60  mg  QD.  Among  these  patients, 
1,409 had > 6 months of exposure to duloxetine, and 445 had < 12 months of exposure to duloxetine; 
a total of 1259 patients years. 
Nausea was the  most frequently reported adverse event, occurring at the beginning of treatment and 
decreasing over time. The most common AEs were nausea (20%), headache (15%), dry mouth (15%), 
constipation  (11%),  and  insomnia  (10%).  Dizziness,  fatigue,  diarrhea,  somnolence,  sweating 
increased,  and  appetite  decreased  occurred  in  5-10%  of  the  duloxetine  patients.  Another  10  AEs 
including vomiting, vision blurred, tremor occurred in 2-5% of the duloxetine treated patients. In the 
long-term  studies,  the  incidence  of  TEAEs  in  duloxetine-treated  patients  was  relatively  low  and 
confirms the safety profile obtained in the short-term studies. 
The overall tolerability of duloxetine in the clinical studies was comparable to paroxetine 20 mg QD 
but there was a trend that some events, such as GI and decreased appetite being reported less often for 
paroxetine 20 mg. There was no clear dose-ADR relationship. In fact, the highest frequencies reported 
were for the 60 mg OD dose applied for. The most likely explanation for this finding is differences in 
the design of the different studies. 
In total, 9.7% of duloxetine patients discontinued treatment for AEs vs. 4.2% in the placebo controlled 
MDD dataset. In the one-year open-label study the rate of discontinuations due to adverse events was 
17%.  The  adverse  events  most  frequently  leading  to  discontinuation  of  patients  were  nausea  and 
somnolence. 
Except  for  nausea,  there  were  similar  AEs  frequencies  reported  for  men  and  women,  in  spite  of  the 
possible higher exposure in women than in men. 
Some patients may experience symptoms on discontinuation of duloxetine, particularly if treatment is 
stopped  abruptly.  When  discontinuing  duloxetine  after  more  than  1  week  of  therapy,  it  is  generally 
recommended that the dose be tapered over no less than 2 weeks before discontinuation in an effort to 
decrease  the  risk  of  discontinuation  symptoms.  As  a  general  recommendation,  the  dose  should  be 
reduced  by  half  or  administered  on  alternate  days  during  this  period.  The  precise  regimen  followed 
33/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
should  however  take  into  account  the  individual  circumstances  of  the  patient,  such  as  duration  of 
treatment, dose at discontinuation etc. This fact is clearly stated in the proposed SPC. 
The  possibility  of  a  suicide  attempt  is  inherent  in  depression  and  may  persist  until  significant 
remission occurs. Isolated cases of suicidal ideation and suicidal behaviours have been reported during 
duloxetine therapy or early after treatment discontinuation. The SPC requests for close supervision of 
high-risk patients during drug therapy. 
Overall  the  safety  profile  is  as  expected  for  a  drug  with  this  pharmacological  profile.  No  apparent, 
unexpected, serious adverse events have been detected in the extensive MDD program.  
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall the pharmacodynamic studies showed that that duloxetine induced inhibition of both serotonin 
and norepinephrine reuptake and a relatively weak inhibitor of dopamine reuptake. The effectiveness 
of  duloxetine  in  the  treatment  of  MDD  is  linked  to  its  inhibition  of  presynaptic  neuron  reuptake  of 
serotonin  and  norepinephrine  in  the  central  nervous  system,  resulting  in  elevated  levels  of  serotonin 
and  norepinephrine  in  the  synaptic  cleft,  enhancing  monoaminergic  neurotransmission.  Although  no 
specific animal models for MDD are available, the in vivo pharmacodynamic studies provide indirect 
evidence for the potential clinical efficacy of duloxetine. 
The general pharmacology studies are appropriate to support the non-clicical-pharmacology profile of 
duloxetine. 
From the pharmacokinetic point of view, mice, rats, and dogs were the most relevant species for non-
clinical efficacy and safety studies. The non-clinical pharmacokinetics properties for duloxetine have 
been  appropriately  described.  A  number  of  studies  concerning  the  absorption,  distribution, 
metabolism, and excretion of duloxetine in mice, rats, and dogs have been performed. Duloxetine is 
well absorbed in all studied species, and is extensively metabolised, especially at the liver. 
Overall,  the  toxicology  programme  revealed  the  liver  as  the  target  organ  related  to  duloxetine 
administration in all species tested. 
The dog was chosen as the non-rodent species for use in the toxicology programme. 
Efficacy 
The efficacy database of duloxetine for the acute treatment of MDD is based on 6 adequately designed 
placebo controlled studies. Four of these studies also included an active comparator. There was also a 
relapse prevention study, HMBC.  
Patients included had a HAMD17 total score ≥15 (≥18 for Study HMBC) and a CGI-Severity score ≥4 
at Visits 1 and 2. The primary efficacy measure used in all duloxetine Phase III studies of MDD was 
mean change from baseline on the HAMD17 total score. Similar methodology and patient eligibility 
based on the same clinical algorithm, was also used. 
Although  some  inconsistency  in  the  results  of  the  different  studies  is  observed,  it  seems  clear  that 
duloxetine possesses a superior antidepressant effect as compared to placebo.  
One deficiency found during the evaluation refers to the lack of direct comparison between the finally 
selected dose (60 mg QD) and an active comparator, although on the basis of the pooled analysis the 
size of the effect seems to be about the same magnitude as that for paroxetine 20 mg. 
In  addition,  patients  with  severe  MDD  and  elderly  patients  are  clearly  underrepresented  in  the 
available efficacy database. 
34/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
The total duloxetine database included 9173 duloxetine-treated patients in all indications. The primary 
MDD  data  safety  database  comprises  a  total  of  2951  patients  of  which  2774  patients  received 
duloxetine  at  or  above  the  recommended  antidepressant  dose  of  60  mg  QD.  This  represents  1259 
patient-years of exposure at or above the recommended dose. 
Duloxetine  is  a  drug  with  highly  variable  pharmacokinetics  and  many  factors  affect  the  systemic 
exposure  (gender,  age,  renal  and  hepatic  function,  smoking  status,  CYP2D6  status,  drug-drug 
interactions) 
Adverse reactions occurred significantly more often in the duloxetine group than in the placebo group, 
being  nausea  (20%),  the  most  frequently  reported  adverse  event.  Other  common  adverse  reactions 
were headache (15%), dry mouth (15%), constipation (11%), and insomnia (10%). Dizziness, fatigue, 
diarrhea, somnolence, sweating increased, and appetite decreased occurred in 5-10% of the duloxetine 
patients. Other adverse  reactions  including vomiting, vision  blurred, tremor  occurred  in 2-5%  of the 
duloxetine  treated  patients.  In  the  long-term  studies,  the  incidence  of  TEAEs  in  duloxetine-treated 
patients was relatively low and confirms the safety profile obtained in the short-term studies. 
In  total,  9.7%  of  duloxetine  patients  discontinued  treatment  for  adverse  reactionss  versus  4.2%  for 
placebo  in  the  placebo  controlled  MDD  dataset.  The  adverse  events  most  frequently  leading  to 
discontinuation of patients was nausea. 
In  conclusion,  the  safety  profile  of  duloxetine  does  not  identify  any  unexpected  or  serious  adverse 
reaction which would create special concern, and is comparable to that known for SSRIs. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Major  Depressive  Disorder  is  the  most  common  mood  disorder,  with  a  lifetime  prevalence  of  about 
15% and as high as 25% in women. Despite the availability of effective treatments, many persons with 
depressive disorders are disabled, and at risk of suicide. 
Duloxetine would represent a new alternative for the treatment of this condition, based on its in vitro 
and in vivo proven capacity to inhibit both serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake. 
The  Applicant  has  provided  evidence  of  the  antidepressant  effect  of  duloxetine  as  compared  to 
placebo in both short-term and long-term studies. 
Although some concerns remain, in particular the lack of an adequate database to support efficacy in 
elderly population, and the lack of direct comparison between the finally selected dose (60 mg once 
daily) and an active comparator, the tolerability profile of duloxetine seems acceptable. Therefore, it 
seems clear that duloxetine might have a place among treatments of Major Depressive Disorder, and a 
positive benefit/risk in MDD can be concluded. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensusthat  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of  duloxetine  in  the  treatment  of  treatment  of  major  depressive 
episodes, was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
35/35 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
