European Medicines Agency  
Cymbalta 
duloxetine 
EPAR summary for the public 
Doc. Ref.: EMA/751799/2009 
EMA/H/C/572 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the studies performed, to 
reach their recommendations on how to use the medicine. 
If you need more information about your medical condition or your treatment, read the Package 
Leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. If you want more 
information on the basis for the CHMP recommendations, read the Scientific Discussion (also 
part of the EPAR). 
What is Cymbalta? 
Cymbalta is a medicine that contains the active substance duloxetine. It is available as gastroresistant 
capsules (white and blue: 30 mg; green and blue: 60 mg). ‘Gastroresistant’ means that the capsules’ 
contents pass through the stomach without being broken down until they reach the intestine.  
This prevents the active substance being destroyed by the acid in the stomach. 
What is Cymbalta used for? 
Cymbalta is used to treat adults with the following diseases: 
•  major depression; 
•  pain due to diabetic peripheral neuropathy (damage to the nerves in the extremities that can occur 
in patients with diabetes); 
•  generalised anxiety disorder (long-term anxiety or nervousness about everyday matters). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Cymbalta used? 
For major depression, the recommended dose of Cymbalta is 60 mg once a day. A response is usually 
seen in two to four weeks. In patients who respond to Cymbalta, treatment should continue for several 
months to prevent the disease coming back, or for longer in patients who have had repeated periods of 
depression in the past. 
For diabetic neuropathic pain, the recommended dose is 60 mg per day but some patients may need a 
higher dose of 120 mg per day. The response to treatment should be assessed regularly. 
For generalised anxiety disorder, the recommended starting dose is 30 mg once a day, but the dose can 
be increased to 60, 90 or 120 mg depending on the patient’s response. Most patients will need to take 
60 mg per day. Patients who also have major depression should start with 60 mg once a day. In 
patients who respond to Cymbalta, treatment should continue for several months, to prevent the 
disorder coming back. 
The dose of Cymbalta should be reduced gradually when stopping treatment. 
How does Cymbalta work? 
The active substance in Cymbalta, duloxetine, is a serotonin-noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor.  
It works by preventing the neurotransmitters 5-hydroxytryptamine (also called serotonin) and 
noradrenaline from being taken back up into nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neurotransmitters are chemicals that allow nerve cells to communicate with one another. By blocking 
their re-uptake, duloxetine increases the amount of these neurotransmitters in the spaces between these 
nerve cells, increasing the level of communication between the cells. Since these neurotransmitters are 
involved in maintaining high mood and reducing the sensation of pain, blocking their re-uptake into 
nerve cells can improve the symptoms of depression, anxiety and neuropathic pain. 
How has Cymbalta been studied? 
For major depression, Cymbalta has been compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in eight main 
studies involving a total of 2,544 patients. Six of the studies looked at the treatment of depression and 
measured the change in symptoms over up to six months. The other two studies looked at how long it 
took for symptoms to return in patients who had initially responded to Cymbalta, including 288 
patients with a history of repeated episodes of depression for up to five years. 
For neuropathic pain, Cymbalta has been compared with placebo in two 12-week studies in 809 
diabetic adults. The main measure of effectiveness was the change in the severity of pain each week. 
For generalised anxiety disorder, Cymbalta has been compared with placebo in five studies involving 
a total of 2,337 patients. Four studies looked at the treatment of the disorder by measuring the 
reduction in symptoms after nine to 10 weeks. The fifth study looked at how long it took for 
symptoms to return in 429 patients who had initially responded to Cymbalta. 
What benefit has Cymbalta shown during the studies? 
Although the results of the depression studies varied, Cymbalta was more effective than placebo in 
four of the studies. In the two studies where the approved dose of Cymbalta was compared with 
placebo, Cymbalta was more effective. It also took longer for symptoms to return in patients taking 
Cymbalta than in those taking placebo. 
For the treatment of diabetic neuropathic pain, Cymbalta was more effective at reducing pain than 
placebo. In both studies, pain reduction was seen from the first week of treatment for up to 12 weeks. 
For generalised anxiety disorder, Cymbalta was also more effective than placebo at treating the 
disorder and preventing symptoms returning. 
What is the risk associated with Cymbalta? 
The most common side effects with Cymbalta (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are nausea (feeling 
sick), headache, dry mouth, somnolence (sleepiness) and dizziness. Most of these were mild or 
moderate, starting early in treatment and getting milder as treatment continued. For the full list of all 
side effects reported with Cymbalta, see the Package Leaflet. 
Cymbalta should not be used in people who may be hypersensitive (allergic) to duloxetine or any of 
the other ingredients. Cymbalta must not be used together with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (another 
group of antidepressants), fluvoxamine (another antidepressant), or ciprofloxacin or enoxacin (types of 
antibiotic). Cymbalta must also not be used in patients with certain types of liver disease or patients 
with severe kidney disease. Treatment must not be started in patients with uncontrolled hypertension 
(high blood pressure), because of a risk of hypertensive crisis (sudden, dangerously high blood 
pressure). As with other antidepressants, isolated cases of suicidal thoughts and behaviour have been 
seen in patients taking Cymbalta, particularly in the first few weeks of treatment for depression. Any 
patients taking Cymbalta who have distressing thoughts or experiences at any time should tell their 
doctor immediately. 
Why has Cymbalta been approved? 
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Cymbalta’s benefits are 
greater than its risks and recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Cymbalta: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union 
for Cymbalta to Eli Lilly Nederland BV on 17 December 2004. The marketing authorisation is valid 
for an unlimited period. 
The full EPAR for Cymbalta can be found here. 
This summary was last updated in 12-2009. 
2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
