                       European Medicines Agency 
London, 23 October 2008 
Doc.Ref.:EMEA/590296/2008 
REFUSAL ASSESSMENT REPORT  
FOR  
Cymbalta 
International non-proprietary name/Common name: 
(duloxetine hydrochloride) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/572/II/26 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
All information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00    Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION  
1. Introduction 
Duloxetine  is  classified  as  a  serotonin  norepinephrine  reuptake  inhibitor  (SNRI).  It  is  a  selective 
inhibitor of both serotonin (5-HT) and norepinephrine (NE) receptors. Both 5-HT and NE have been 
implicated in the mediation of endogenous pain inhibitory mechanisms via the descending inhibitory 
pain pathways in the brain and spinal cord.  
Duloxetine is currently approved under the trade name Cymbalta/Xeristar for the treatment of major 
depressive  disorder  (MDD),  treatment  of  diabetic  peripheral  neuropathic  pain  (DPNP)  in  adults  and 
treatment of generalised anxiety disorder (GAD) and under the trade name Yentreve/Ariclaim for the 
diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain (DPNP) in adults and the treatment of stress urinary incontinence 
(SUI). 
This  variation  concerns  an  application  for  extension  of  the  approved  indication  for  Cymbalta  to 
include the treatment of fibromyalgia with or without depression.  
2. Non Clinical Aspects 
Environmental risk assessment (ERA) 
Based  on  the  updated  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  and  the  study  reports  submitted  by  the 
Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  (MAH),  the  CHMP  asked  the  MAH  to  update  the  Predicted 
Environmental  Concentration  in  surface  water  (PECsurface  water)  refinement.  Further  to  the  data 
submitted by the MAH the CHMP considered this concern to have been addressed. 
3. Clinical Aspects 
3.1 GCP aspects  
All  studies  referred  to  this  application  are  stated  to  be  Good  Clinical  Practice  principles  compliant. 
Statistical analyses and study reporting were conducted in compliance with the principles described in 
the relevant International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH) guidelines. 
In addition, the MAH confirmed that the ethical requirements of the clinical trial directive 2001/20/EC 
were applied for clinical trials conducted outside the European Union (EU). 
3.2 Scientific Advice 
A  CHMP  scientific  advice  was  requested  by  the  MAH,  on  the  clinical  development  program  of 
duloxetine in fibromyalgia and the response was given on the 21 October 2004. 
The key aspects of the CHMP recommendations were the following: 
•  Fibromyalgia is an ill defined and extremely heterogeneous condition without universal consensus 
on  its characteristic and  diagnostic  features  and  no  objective investigations to aid  diagnosis,  but 
the use of American College of Rheumatology (ACR) criteria is supported. 
•  To  stratify  for  presence  or  absence  of  current  major  depressive  disorder  seems  reasonable  to 
establish  whether  the  effect  of  duloxetine  in  patients  with  fibromyalgia  is  dependent  of  its 
antidepressant effect.  
• 
•  With regard to study duration, for short-term treatment of fibromyalgia at least 12 weeks on stable 
dose is required but for long-term (maintenance of effect, tolerance), an open label extension of 12 
months is required. 
If the co-primary endpoints (pain endpoint and patient global assessment) proposed by the MAH 
are met, then it is possible that an indication reflecting fibromyalgia syndrome might be granted. If 
the key secondary endpoints also show positive effects, this would greatly enhance the credibility 
of the "syndrome" indication.  
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The  full  package  (5 studies) could  be  sufficient to  grant a  marketing  authorisation  but the  exact 
wording  of  the  indication  cannot  be  determined  until  the  studies  have  been  completed  and  data 
assessed. 
3.3 Clinical pharmacology 
No new clinical pharmacology studies have been completed to support the fibromyalgia indication. A 
population  pharmacokinetic  (Pop  PK)  analysis  that  included  patients  from  a  Phase  3  study  in 
fibromyalgia (HMEF) is included to support this submission. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic data from patients with MDD, SUI, DPNP, or fibromyalgia were analyzed using the 
nonlinear  mixed-effects  modelling  program  (NONMEM),  Version  5.    A  total  of  2002  duloxetine 
plasma concentrations from 594 patients enrolled in Phase 2 or 3 clinical studies for MDD (Studies 
HMAQ  and  HMAU),  SUI  (Study  SAAW),  DNP  (Study  HMAVa),  or  fibromyalgia  (Study  HMEF) 
were included.  
Duloxetine  pharmacokinetics  were  adequately  described  using  a  one-compartment  model, 
parameterized in terms of absorption rate constant (Ka), oral clearance (CL/F), and apparent volume of 
distribution (V/F).  
Five  covariates,  smoking  status,  gender,  dose,  age,  and  ethnic  origin,  were  identified  as  having  a 
statistically significant influence on duloxetine pharmacokinetics. These covariates were identified in 
prior  analyses  to  affect  duloxetine’s  pharmacokinetics,  except  for  ethnic  origin  (see  Table  2.7.2.1 
below).  
Smoking status and sex had an effect on the bioavailability of duloxetine. Dose and age had an effect 
on  CL/F,  whereas  ethnic  origin  had  an  effect  on  V/F.  As  disease  condition  was  not  identified  as  a 
statistically significant covariate, the pharmacokinetics of duloxetine are not dependent on the disease.  
Similarly, the pharmacokinetics of duloxetine are not dependent on body weight or dosing regimen. 
Women had 64% higher average duloxetine concentrations at steady state (Cav,ss) than males receiving 
the  same  dose  of  duloxetine.    Similarly,  non-smokers  had  nearly  43%  higher  Cav,ss  than  smokers 
receiving  the  same  dose  of  duloxetine.    Non-smoking  female  patients  had  a  Cav,ss  nearly  2.3  times 
higher  than  smoking  male  patients  receiving  the  same  dose  of  duloxetine.  The  effect  of  sex  and 
smoking status is likely related to the higher CYP1A2 activity or concentration in men and smokers.   
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The effects of age, dose, and ethnic origin on Cav,ss are minor and less than those noted with sex and 
smoking  status.  The  effect  of  doubling  the  duloxetine  dose (30  mg  to  60  mg  or  60  mg  to  120  mg) 
resulted in 2.3 and 2.6 times the Cav,ss, respectively. Oral clearance (CL/F) decreased 25% in the age 
range of 29 years (5th percentile) to 69 years (95th percentile of this dataset).  Ethnic origin had an 
effect  on  V/F,  in  Hispanic  patients  being  2  times  higher  than  the  value  estimated  for  non-Hispanic 
patients. As ethnic origin did not have an effect on CL/F, the Cav,ss at a dose is the same for all patients 
irrespective of their ethnic origin.  
Overall, the combined effects of sex, smoking, age, dose, and ethnic origin explained only about 8% 
and 27% of the interpatient variability in CL/F and volume of distribution (V/F), respectively.  There 
remains  a  high  degree  of  interpatient  variability  (60  to  100%)  unexplained  in  duloxetine 
pharmacokinetics. 
As the magnitude of the effect of these covariates are small relative to the magnitude of interpatient 
variability, specific dose recommendations for duloxetine based upon sex, smoking status, age, dose, 
or ethnic origin are not warranted. 
•  Concentration-response relationship 
In Study HMEF the relationship between duloxetine exposure and efficacy response was investigated. 
There is a duloxetine concentration dependent increase in BPI-average pain score reduction such that 
when duloxetine dose is doubled from 60 mg (typical average drug concentration at steady state [Cav,ss] 
= 72 ng/mL) to 120 mg (Cav,ss = 189 ng/mL at 120 mg), there is a 49% increase in BPI-average pain 
score reduction (that is, from -1.08 to -1.62) and a 22% increase in area under the concentration curve 
to  pain  relief  (AUCpain  relief)  (that  is,  from  224  to  272).  There  did  not  appear  to  be  an  effect  of 
duloxetine Cav,ss on 30% or 50% reduction in BPI-average pain score. 
CHMP conclusions 
A  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  on  patients  with  MDD,  SUI,  DPNP  or  fibromyalgia  (594 
patients)  revealed  a  statistically  significant  effect  of  sex,  smoking  status,  age,  and  ethnic  origin  on 
duloxetine  pharmacokinetics.  These  findings  fall  into  line  with  those  already  provided  by  previous 
analyses. The clinical impact of them appears to be at present limited. The interpatient variability is 
much superior to that attributed to those identified factors and makes unnecessary a specific dosage 
recommendation based on any of them.     
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.4 Clinical efficacy 
The clinical development plan for the efficacy of duloxetine in the treatment of fibromyalgia includes 
4 placebo-controlled studies (Study HMBO, Study HMCA, Study HMCJ, and Study HMEF) with 
876 duloxetine-treated patients and 535 placebo-treated patients, and one long-term uncontrolled study 
(Study  HMEH)  with  350  duloxetine-treated  patients  (double-blind  comparison  of  60  mg  and  120 
mg). These studies are summarised in the table below, and then dealt with individually further down in 
this report. 
5
 
 
 
 
 
Methods 
•  Population 
All studies enrolled patients 18 years of age or older who fulfilled the ACR criteria for fibromyalgia 
(widespread aching pain in all 4 quadrants of the body and axial skeleton for >3 months duration and 
≥11 of 18 tender points). A cut-off of  ≥4 on the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) average pain score was 
required for study entry. Patients were stratified in the randomization based on their major depressive 
disease  status  at  baseline  in  all  4  placebo-controlled  studies.  The  MAH  stated  that  entry  criteria  for 
these studies were chosen to ensure inclusion of moderately ill fibromyalgia patients with or without 
MDD  but  at  the  same  time  were  broad  enough  to  ensure  generalizability  for  practical  clinical  use. 
Efforts were made to include patients of both genders. 
•  Key exclusion Criteria 
● Any current primary Axis I diagnosis other than MDD (except in Study HMEH). 
●  Pain  symptoms  related  to  traumatic  injury,  structural  rheumatic  disease,  or  regional  rheumatic 
disease (such as osteoarthritis, bursitis, and tendonitis). 
● Rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory arthritis, or infectious arthritis, or an autoimmune disease (eg. 
systemic lupus erythematosus). 
●  Use  of  any  excluded  medications  that  could  not  be  discontinued  at  Visit  1  (e.g.  narcotics,  Non 
Steroidal  Anti-Inflammatory  Drugs 
and 
antidepressants). 
anticonvulsants, 
(NSAIDs), 
tramadol, 
triptans, 
•  Objective 
The main objective of all four placebo-controlled studies was to assess the efficacy of duloxetine on 
the reduction of pain severity in patients with fibromyalgia with or without MDD (two of these, HMCJ 
and HMEF, included a functional measure as a co primary endpoint). Study HMEH, was conducted to 
assess longer-term safety and tolerability but a secondary objective was to evaluate the persistence of 
efficacy over 12 month’s treatment. 
•  Statistical methods 
In general, treatment group differences in continuous measures were based on comparisons of Least-
Squares  Mean  (LSMean)  change  from  baseline  (or  LSMeans  at  endpoint  for  the  PGI-Improvement) 
derived from an analysis of covariance model. Mean change analyses were implemented using Last-
Observation-Carried Forward (LOCF). Mixed-effects repeated measures modelling (MMRM analysis) 
was also implemented to provide visit wise comparisons between groups, but for the purpose of this 
overview  the  focus  is  on  the  LOCF  analyses.  Categorical  measures  were  compared  using  Fisher’s 
exact  test  and/or  the  Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel  (CMH)  test  for  general  association  adjusting  for 
investigative  sites.  Study  HMCJ  and  Study  HMEF  included  gatekeeper  strategies  for  selected 
secondary  endpoints  to  adjust  for  multiplicity  associated  with  multiple  endpoints,  doses  and  time 
points. To make side-by-side comparisons of findings from the 4 placebo-controlled studies uniform, 
the  analysis  of  covariance  (ANCOVA)  were standardized  to  remove  any  inconsistencies in  findings 
that  may  have  been  attributable  to  the  use  of  slightly  different  analytic  models  between  the  earlier 
studies  (Study  HMBO  and  Study  HMCA)  and  the  more  recent  studies  (Study  HMCJ  and  Study 
HMEF). In all cases, the results from the standardized analyses were consistent with those presented in 
the individual clinical study reports (CSRs). 
•  Efficacy Variables 
All five studies focused on pain as the primary endpoint measure. The Study HMBO utilized both the 
Fibromyalgia  Impact  Questionnaire  (FIQ)  total  score  and  the  FIQ  pain  severity  item  score  as  co 
primary  endpoints.  In  the  four  subsequent  studies,  the  Brief  Pain  Inventory  (BPI)  assessment  scale 
(using the average pain severity) was employed as primary endpoint. The Patient’s Global Impressions 
of Improvement (PGI-Improvement) scale was selected as a co primary measure in HMCJ and HMEF 
to deal with additional symptoms, such as tenderness, stiffness, fatigue, anxiety and sleep, mood and 
cognitive disturbances with a major impact in physical and emotional function of patients and ensure 
that changes seen in the BPI were clinically meaningful for the patient. The PGI-Improvement scale 
was a secondary measure in HMBO and HMCA. Response rates were compared, defined as either a 
6
 
 
 
 
 
≥50% or ≥30% reduction from baseline at endpoint only in the BPI average pain score. Persistence of 
effect  was  evaluated  in  patients  who  remained  on  60  mg  for  52  weeks  after  having  at  least  a  50% 
reduction on the BPI average pain score during the 8 week open label phase (Study HMEH). 
Primary Endpoint measures 
•  The Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) – Modified Short Form (Severity and Interference scores) is a self-
reported scale that measures the severity of pain and the interference of pain on function. It was 
developed as a pain assessment tool for use with cancer patients. The Severity scores range from 0 
(no pain) to 10 (pain as bad as you can imagine). There are 4 questions assessing the severity for 
worst pain, least pain, average pain in the past 24 hours, and the pain right now. The interference 
scores (used as secondary outcome measure) range from 0 (does not interfere) to 10 (completely 
interferes). The average interference score is the arithmetic mean of the 7 interference questions 
assessing the interference of pain in the past 24 hours for general activity, mood, walking ability, 
normal work, relations with other people, sleep, and enjoyment of life. 
•  The Patient’s Global Impressions of Improvement (PGI-Improvement) scale is self-administered 
scale that measures the degree of overall improvement at the time of assessment with respect to 
the patient’s status at randomization. The score ranges from 1 (very much better) to 7 (very much 
worse). 
•  The Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ) is a self-administered specific health questionnaire 
which evaluates current health status in patients with fibromyalgia. It is one of the most commonly 
used tool for clinical investigations in this condition. The total FIQ score assess physical function 
in 11 items rated on a 4-point Likert-type scale, two items measure the number of days the patient 
felt  well  and  the  number  of  days  the  patient  felt  unable  to  work  due  to  his/her  fibromyalgia 
symptoms, and the seven other components assess in 11-point Likert-type scales (marked in 10-
mm  increments)  work  difficulty,  pain,  fatigue,  morning  tiredness,  stiffness,  anxiety,  and 
depression. The total  score  ranges  from  0  to 80  with a  higher  score  indicative  of  more  negative 
impact. 
Secondary Endpoint measures 
Besides  the  components  of  the  BPI  and  FIQ  scores  not  used  as  primary  endpoint  measures,  the 
following variables are analyzed as secondary outcomes. 
•  The  patient-rated  Sheehan Disability  Scale  (SDS)  is used to  assess  the  patient's  general level  of 
disability. The scale measures a patient's evaluation of the degree to which his or her symptoms 
have disrupted work, social, and/or home life. The score ranges from 0 to 30 with a lower score 
indicating a lower level of disability. 
•  The Clinical Global Impressions of Severity (CGI-Severity) scale evaluates the severity of illness 
at the time of assessment from the clinician’s perspective. The score ranges from 1 (normal, not at 
all ill) to 7 (among the most extremely ill patients). It is robust, simple and sensitive to change, 
reproducing  the  clinical  judgment  in  daily  practice.  However  it  is  subjective  in  its  nature  and 
requires an in-depth knowledge of patient and patient history. 
•  The Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI) is a 20-item, self-reporting instrument designed to 
collect  data  on  the  following  5  dimensions:  general  fatigue,  physical  fatigue,  mental  fatigue, 
reduced motivation, and reduced activity. Each dimension score is derived by summing the scores 
of the 4 individual items that pertain to each dimension. Dimensional scores range from 4 to 20 
with a higher score reflecting greater levels of fatigue. 
•  Tender  Point  Pain  Thresholds  are  assessed  for  all  18  tender  points  by  a  study  physician  or 
qualified study personnel accordingly with training materials. A dolorimeter (algometer) was used 
to  exert  the  pressure  at  each  point  and  to  measure  the  threshold  reading;  when  the  patient  first 
indicates pain, the threshold is recorded in kg/cm2. 
7
 
 
 
•  The  self-administered  36-item  Short-Form  Health  Survey  (SF-36)  consists  of  36  questions 
covering  8  health  domains:  physical  functioning,  bodily  pain,  role  limitations  due  to  physical 
problems,  role  limitations due  to  emotional problems,  general  health  perceptions,  mental health, 
social  function,  and  vitality.  Each  domain  is  scored  by  summing  the  individual  items  and 
transforming the scores into a 0 to 100 scale, with higher scores indicating better health status or 
functioning.  The  Physical  and  Mental  Component  scores  are  constructed  based  on  the  8  SF-36 
domains. 
•  The EuroQoL Questionnaire-5Dimension (EQ-5D) is a generic, multidimensional, health-related, 
quality-of-life instrument. The scale allows patients to rate their health state in 5 health domains: 
mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and mood. A single score between 1 and 3 is 
generated for each domain. For each patient, the outcomes from the 5 domains are mapped to a 
single index (score) through an algorithm. The index ranges between -0.59 and 1 with the higher 
score indicating a better health state as perceived by the patient. 
Results 
Study HMBO  
Study  HMBO  was  a  Phase  2,  parallel-group,  double-blind,  fixed-dose,  placebo-controlled  study  in 
male  and  female  patients,  designed  to  assess  the  efficacy  of  duloxetine  60  mg  BID  (twice  daily) 
compared with placebo at the end of the 12-week therapy phase in reducing both the pain severity as 
measured  by  the  FIQ  Pain  Item  and  the  FIQ  Total  Score  in  patients  with  ACR  defined  primary 
fibromyalgia, with or without MDD. 
Results 
No  statistically  significant  differences  were  observed  between  treatment  groups  in  terms  of  age, 
gender, origin, weight, presence of MDD, or presence of secondary anxiety disorder. A significantly 
greater percentage of placebo-treated patients took antidepressants before entering the study compared 
with  duloxetine-treated  patients  [51  (49.51%)  vs.  35  (33.65%),  p=0.024].  Antidepressants  were 
reported  as  taken  either  for  mood  or  pain  control.  The  difference  in  the  percentage  of  patients  who 
previously  took  antidepressants  was  not  statistically  significantly  different  between  MDD  patients 
(48.1%)  and  non-MDD  patients  (37.5%).  A  statistically  significant  treatment  group  difference  was 
observed in patients who received at least one previous medication for insomnia [29 (28.2%) vs. 16 
(15.4%)  in  placebo  and  duloxetine  groups,  respectively,  p=0.029].  No  statistically  significant 
treatment group differences were observed in study drug compliance at any visit or overall. 
Primary outcome measures 
•  The mean change analysis (from baseline to endpoint) for the FIQ Total Score and FIQ Pain Item 
Score showed that duloxetine treatment group had numerically greater improvement than the placebo 
treatment  groups  in  both  endpoint  measures,  but  differences  were  non-statistically  significant  (p= 
0.080 for FIQ total and p=0.090 for FIQ Pain). 
•  Repeated  measures  analysis  for  the  FIQ  Total  Score  demonstrated  statistically  significant 
superiority  of  duloxetine  over  placebo  only  at  4th  and  12th  weeks  (last  visit)  of  treatment.  No 
statistically significant superiority of duloxetine at the last visit (12th week) was observed in repeated 
measures  analysis  for  the  FIQ  Pain  Item  Score  (duloxetine  only  was  statistically  significantly 
superior to placebo at 1st, 2nd and 4th week). 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
Subgroup analysis of primary endpoints 
Subgroup  analyses  were  performed  accounting  by  demographical,  investigator  and  baseline 
imbalanced variables. 
•  Gender:  Duloxetine-treated  female  patients  showed  statistically  significant  improvement  for 
both primary efficacy measures (FIQ Total Score and FIQ Pain Item Score) compared with the 
placebo-treated  female  patients.  In  contrast,  in  male  patients,  outcomes  on  these  measures 
were either marginally statistically significant or statistically significant in favour of placebo 
(FIQ Total Score, p=.076; FIQ Pain Item Score, p=.037). 
•  After accounting for baseline imbalance in previous antidepressant use, statistically significant 
treatment superiority of duloxetine over placebo was observed for FIQ Total Score (p=.042) 
and  a  marginally  statistically  significant  treatment  effect  was  observed  for  FIQ  Pain  Item 
Score (p=.053). 
•  Baseline  imbalance  on  previous  antidepressant  use  was  also  observed  between  treatment 
groups for female patients (placebo 51.1% versus duloxetine 34.8%, p=.037). By accounting 
for this imbalance while evaluating the treatment effect, treatment-group differences observed 
were  more  significant  than  when  the  analysis  was  performed  without  accounting  for  this 
baseline  difference.  For  FIQ  Total  and  FIQ  Pain  scores  in  randomized  female  patients, 
statistically significant superiority of duloxetine over placebo was observed at the significance 
level of p=.017 and p=.024, respectively. 
10
 
 
 
 
 
•  No  statistically  significant treatment-by-MDD  interaction  was  observed  for either  FIQ  Total 
or FIQ Pain Item Score in the whole population studied or the female subgroup. The repeated 
measures  analysis  did  not demonstrate  statistically  significant  superiority  of  duloxetine  over 
placebo in FIQ Pain Item Score for patients with or without MDD at the last visit of the acute 
therapy  phase  (Visit  10).  Duloxetine  was  statistically  significantly  superior  to  placebo  at 
relieving  pain  severity  in  non-depressed  patients  at  Visits  4,  5,  and  6.  The  results  for  the 
depressed patients followed this trend, but were not statistically significant. 
Secondary outcome measures 
On  all  secondary  efficacy  measures,  except  for  FIQ  Fatigue  and  Rest  Item  scores  and  BPI 
relationships  with  people  score,  duloxetine-treated  patients  demonstrated  statistically  significantly 
greater  improvement  compared  with  placebo-treated  patients  (by  mean  change  analysis  or  repeated 
measures analysis). 
Results for Mood and Anxiety Efficacy Assessments 
The mean change analysis did not demonstrate statistically significant superiority of duloxetine over 
placebo  in  either  efficacy  assessment.  There  was  no  significant  treatment-by-MDD  interaction 
observed for either of the variables. 
Analyses of Response on FIQ Pain Item Score 
There  was  no  treatment  group  difference  observed  on  response  rates  at  endpoint.  However,  the 
duloxetine treatment group demonstrated statistically significant superiority on time-to-first response 
compared  with  the  placebo  treatment  group.  No  treatment  group  difference  was  observed  for  in  the 
analysis of FIQ Pain Item Score sustained response. 
Path Analysis for the Direct Analgesic Effect 
The path analysis was performed only on the female population, for which the mean change analysis 
demonstrated a statistically significant treatment difference on FIQ Pain Item Score. The direct effect 
of duloxetine on the reduction on the FIQ Pain Item Score accounted for 61.1% of the total treatment 
effect with p= .313. Indirect treatment effect through the improvement of mood symptoms (reflected 
in  change  in  Beck  Depression  Inventory-II  (BDI-II))  and  anxiety  symptoms  (reflected  in  change  in 
Beck  Anxiety  Inventory  (BAI))  accounted  for  38.5%  and  0.5%,  respectively.  To  confirm  these 
findings, a similar analysis was conducted for BPI Average Pain Score in randomized female patients. 
The direct effect of duloxetine on the reduction of BPI Average Pain accounted for 83.3% of the total 
treatment  effect,  which  was  statistically  significant  (p=  .015).  Indirect  treatment  effect  through  the 
improvement of mood symptoms (reflected in change in BDI-II) and anxiety symptoms (reflected in 
change in BAI) accounted for 15.3% and 1.5%, respectively. 
Health Outcomes Measures 
The  superiority  of  duloxetine  over  placebo  on  the  improvement  of  health  outcome  status  was 
demonstrated for all measures obtained from SDS, for the total score of QLDS, and for 6 out of 10 
variables obtained from SF-36. 
Further Evaluation of Treatment-by-Gender Interaction 
Among  the  11  secondary  variables  analyzed,  statistically  significant  treatment-by-gender  interaction 
was  observed  for  two  variables  (BPI  Average  Pain  and  SDS  total  scores).  Marginally  significant 
interaction was observed for three variables (FIQ Total, FIQ Pain Item, and BPI Worst Pain scores). 
All of these scores were patient-rated scores. It is notable that on the physician-rated scores, such as 
two  variables  from  the  Tender  Point  assessment  and  CGI-Severity,  both  male  and  female  patients 
responded to study drug in the same direction. 
11
 
HMCA Study 
Study HMCA was a Phase 3, parallel, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in women treated with 
either  duloxetine  60  mg  BID  or  60  mg  QD  (once  daily).  The  primary  objective  was  to  assess  the 
efficacy  of  duloxetine  60  mg  BID  compared  with  placebo  on  the  reduction  of  pain  severity  as 
measured  by  the  average  pain  item  of  the  BPI  during  a  12-week,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled, 
therapy phase in women with ACR-defined primary fibromyalgia, with or without MDD. 
Results 
This study included only women. No statistically significant differences between treatment groups in 
age,  gender,  origin,  weight,  presence  of  MDD,  or  presence  of  secondary  anxiety  disorder  were 
observed. No significant differences were observed for baseline measures of severity of illness, nor for 
alcohol consumption, caffeine consumption, or smoking practices, historical diagnoses, previous pain 
control  treatments,  previous  treatments  for  depression,  anxiety  disorder,  panic  disorder,  fatigue,  or 
other. A significant difference among treatment groups was observed with regard to concomitant use 
of  zolpidem  being  much  more  infrequent  in  the  placebo  group.  A  significant  treatment-group 
difference  in  study  drug  compliance  was  observed  at  Visit  7.  Fewer  placebo-treated  patients  were 
compliant with study drug at Visit 7.  
Primary Efficacy Analysis 
•  BPI    Average  Pain  Score:  Both  duloxetine  60  mg  BID  and  duloxetine  60  mg  QD  were 
statistically superior to placebo in the mean change analysis of the BPI average pain score for 
all randomly assigned patients in the acute therapy phase (12 weeks).  
• 
In  the  repeated  measures  analysis  for  the  BPI  average  pain  score  for  all  randomly  assigned 
patients, significant treatment-group differences between placebo and both duloxetine 60 mg 
BID  and  duloxetine  60  mg  QD  were  observed  beginning  1  week  after  randomization  and 
continuing  through  the  acute  phase.  In  general,  responses  to  duloxetine  doubled  that  of 
placebo in all the acute phase. No differences between duloxetine 60 mg BID and duloxetine 
60 mg QD were observed. 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 Secondary Efficacy Analyses 
•  Area under the Curve (AUC) of Pain Relief. Both duloxetine 60 mg BID and duloxetine 60 
mg  QD  were  statistically  superior  to  placebo  (p<.001)  in  the  mean  change  analysis  of  the 
AUC of pain relief.  
•  FIQ  total  score :  Both  duloxetine  60  mg  BID  and  duloxetine  60  mg  QD  were  statistically 
superior to placebo (p<.001) in the repeated measures and mean change analysis of the FIQ 
total score, with average improvement of 16.5% in placebo and around 32% in both groups of 
duloxetine. 
•  Other  Pain  and  General  Illness/Improvement  Efficacy  Assessments:  In  the  mean  change 
analyses, duloxetine 60 mg QD was statistically superior to placebo on all secondary measures 
(including BPI Worst Pain Severity, BPI Least Pain Severity, BPI Severity: Pain Right Now, 
BPI  Interference,  CGI-Severity,  PGI  –Improvement  and  HAMD17),  except  for  mean  of  18 
tender point thresholds (kg/cm2) and number of tender points with a low threshold.  
13
 
 
 
 
•  Duloxetine 60 mg BID was statistically superior to placebo on all secondary measures except 
for  HAMD17  total  score.  There  were  no  significant  differences  between  duloxetine  60  mg 
BID and duloxetine 60 mg QD. 
•  Analyses  of  BPI  Average  Pain  Response  Rates:  Sixty-one  (54%)  patients  treated  with 
duloxetine 60 mg BID and 64 (55%) patients treated with duloxetine 60 mg QD achieved a 
response  defined  as  a  30%  reduction  from  baseline  to  endpoint  compared  with  39  (33%) 
patients treated with placebo. 
•  Path Analysis for the Direct Analgesic Effect: For duloxetine 60 mg BID, the direct effect of 
duloxetine  on  the  reduction  on  the  BPI  average  pain  score  accounted for  87.5%  of the  total 
treatment  effect  with  p=.001.  Indirect  treatment  effect  through  the  improvement  of  mood 
symptoms (reflected in change in HAMD17) accounted for 12.5%. For duloxetine 60 mg QD, 
the  direct  effect of duloxetine  on  the reduction  of the  BPI  average  pain  score accounted for 
75.7%  of  the  total  treatment  effect  with  p=.006.  Indirect  treatment  effect  through  the 
improvement of mood symptoms (reflected in change in HAMD17) accounted for 24.4%. 
Subgroup Analyses 
Subgroups were defined by age, origin, diagnosis of MDD, diagnosis of secondary anxiety, and prior 
antidepressant  medication  use.  No  statistically  significant  therapy-by-subgroup  interactions  were 
observed.  
Drug Dose, Drug Concentration, and Relationships to Response 
Overall,  both  doses  of  duloxetine  were  found  to  be  effective  in  the  treatment  of  women  with 
fibromyalgia  symptoms.  On  numerous  measures,  the  60  mg  BID  dose  was  found  to  be  numerically 
superior to the 60 mg QD dose, but these differences tended to not be statistically significant. 
Drug-Drug and Drug-Disease Interactions 
There were no significant differences in concomitant acetaminophen use among the treatment groups. 
However,  duloxetine  60  mg  BID-treated  patients  used  a  significantly  lower  mean  daily  dose  of 
concomitant acetaminophen compared with duloxetine 60 mg QD-treated and placebo-treated patients. 
Health Outcomes/Quality of Life Evaluation 
Both  duloxetine  treatment  groups  were  statistically  superior  to  placebo  on  a  majority  of  the  SF-36 
Items, QLDS index score and on the SDS total score. 
HMCJ Study 
Study  HMCJ  was  a  Phase  3,  multicentre,  randomized,  double-blind,  parallel-group,  fixed  dose, 
placebo-controlled study in male and female patients  designed to assess the efficacy of duloxetine 120 
mg  QD  compared  with  placebo  on  the  treatment  of  pain  in  patients  with  ACR-defined  primary 
fibromyalgia, with or without MDD in the 3-month therapy phase of the study. 
Results 
No  statistically  significant  differences  between  treatment  groups  in  age,  gender,  origin,  weight, 
presence of MDD, or presence of secondary anxiety disorder were observed. Significant differences 
between groups included: a) the average number of beers consumed, with placebo showing the highest 
mean  average  number  consumed,  (b)  a  significantly  higher  rate  of  postmenopause  in the  duloxetine 
20/60 group, (c) some secondary conditions with statistically significant treatment-group differences 
(although  not  clinically  relevant),  (d)  a  higher  incidence  of  use  for  methylprednisolone  previous 
therapy for fibromyalgia and/or depression in duloxetine 20/60 mg QD and (e) a higher incidence of 
use for calcium as concomitant therapy in duloxetine 20/60 mg QD. No significant differences were 
observed  for  the  BPI  average  pain,  FIQ  total  score,  Mean  Tender  Point  Threshold,  Count  of  Low 
Threshold,  CGI-Severity  or  PGI-Severity.  No  significant  differences  among  treatment  groups  were 
observed for baseline HAMD17 scores by MDD status. No significant treatment group differences in 
overall treatment compliance were observed. 
14
 
 
 
 
Primary Efficacy Analysis 
•  Co-Primary  Efficacy  Analyses  –  3-month  Therapy  Phase:  Duloxetine  120  mg  QD  and 
duloxetine 60 mg QD showed a significantly greater mean decrease (improvement) compared 
with  placebo  in  the  mean change  analysis  of  the  BPI  average  pain  score  for  all  randomized 
patients  during  the  3-month  therapy  phase.  Mean  decrease  in  BPI  average  pain  score  were 
21%  for  placebo,  30%  for  duloxetine  20  QD,  30%  for  duloxetine  60  QD  and  35%  for 
duloxetine 120 QD. 
All  duloxetine  treatment  groups  showed  significantly  greater  patient-rated  improvement  at 
endpoint  compared  with  placebo  in  the  PGI–Improvement  mean  score  at  endpoint  for  all 
randomized patients during the 3-month therapy phase. 
15
 
 
 
 
•  BPI  Average  Pain  Score  and  PGI-Improvement  –  6-Month  Therapy  Phase:  All  duloxetine 
treatment groups showed a significantly greater mean decrease (improvement) compared with 
placebo in the mean change analysis of the BPI average pain score for all randomized patients 
at  the  6th  month  endpoint. Mean  decrease  in  BPI  average  pain score  were  21% for  placebo, 
32% for duloxetine 20 QD, 34% for duloxetine 60 QD and 30% for duloxetine 120 QD. 
Duloxetine 120 mg QD and 20/60 mg QD (but not duloxetine 60 QD) showed significantly greater 
patient-rated improvement at 6th month endpoint compared with placebo in the PGI–Improvement 
mean score. 
16
 
 
 
 
 
•  SDS  Global  Functioning  Impairment  Total  Score  –  at  3  or  6-Month  Therapy  Phase.  No 
significant treatment group differences were observed. 
 Secondary Efficacy Analyses: 3-Month Therapy Phase 
•  BPI average pain score: Duloxetine was statistically superior to placebo in repeated measures 
analysis only at discrete time points (1st to 4th week for duloxetine 20 QD, 1st to 7th week for 
duloxetine 60 QD and 1st to 7th week and 15th week for duloxetine 120 QD. Analysis of the 
AUC was statistically significant for all three doses.  
•  Other BPI scores. Only duloxetine 120 mg QD was statistically superior to placebo in other 
BPI scores (BPI worst pain, BPI least pain, BPI pain right now and BPI average interference 
scores) by both mean change and repeated measures analysis, although only at discrete time 
points). Duloxetine 60 mg QD was statistically superior in BPI worst pain and BPI least pain 
but  not  BPI  pain  right  now  and  BPI  average  interference.  Duloxetine  20  mg  QD  was  not 
superior to placebo in any BPI scores by mean change analysis. By repeated measures analysis 
superiority was observed only at discrete time points. 
17
 
 
 
 
•  Percentage of responders. Only duloxetine 120 mg QD showed a significantly higher response 
rate  at  endpoint  compared  with  placebo.  Duloxetine  60  mg  QD  and  120  mg  QD  showed  a 
significantly earlier time to first response compared with placebo based on the stratified log-
rank  test.  Duloxetine  120  mg  QD  showed  a  significantly  higher  sustained  response  rate 
compared with placebo. 
•  PGI-Improvement:  All  three  doses  of  duloxetine  showed  statistically  significant  superiority 
over  placebo  in  the  mean  change  analysis  and  at  different  visits  in  the  repeated  measures 
analysis.  
18
 
 
 
 
 
•  Other  secondary  endpoints  at  3  months:  All  three  doses  of  duloxetine  showed  statistically 
significant superiority over placebo in the mean change analysis and at different visits in the 
repeated  measures  analysis  in  the  FIQ  Total  score  and  CGI-Severity  score  (except  for 
duloxetine 20 QD). None of doses were statistically superior to placebo in the Tender Point 
Pain Thresholds.  
•  Analysis of Dose-Response: No statistically significant linear dose response was demonstrated 
among the duloxetine 20 mg QD, 60 mg QD and 120 mg QD doses on the BPI average pain 
score,  PGI-Improvement  score  at  endpoint,  SDS  Global  Functioning  total  score,  response 
rates,  or  sustained  response  rates.  Duloxetine  20  mg  QD  did  not  show  significant 
improvement  compared  with  placebo  on  the  analysis  of  mean  change  from  baseline  to 
endpoint  on  the  BPI  average  pain  score.  In  addition,  duloxetine  20  mg  QD  did  not  show 
significant  improvement  compared  with  placebo  on  the  majority  of  the  secondary  efficacy 
measures as analyzed by mean change from baseline to endpoint. 
Secondary Efficacy Analyses: 6-Month Therapy Phase 
•  BPI average pain score: Duloxetine was statistically superior to placebo in repeated measures 
analysis only at discrete time points (1st to 4th week and 28th week for duloxetine 20 QD, 1st to 
4th  week  for  duloxetine  60  QD  and  1st  to  7th  week  and  15th  week  for  duloxetine  120  QD. 
Analysis of the AUC was statistically significant for the 20/60 mg QD and 120 mg QD but not 
for 60 mg QD.  
19
 
 
 
•  Other BPI scores: Only duloxetine 120 mg QD was statistically superior to placebo in other 
BPI scores (BPI worst pain, BPI least pain, BPI pain right now and BPI average interference 
scores) by both mean change and repeated measures analysis, although only at discrete time 
points).  Duloxetine  60  mg  QD  was  statistically  superior  in  BPI  least  pain  and  BPI  average 
interference but not BPI pain right now and BPI worst pain. Duloxetine 20/60 mg QD was not 
superior to placebo in any BPI scores by mean change analysis except average interference. 
By repeated measures analysis superiority was observed only at discrete time points. 
•  Percentage  of  responders:  All  three  doses  showed  a  significantly  higher  response  rate  at 
endpoint compared with placebo, although differences were small. 
•  Duloxetine  60  mg  QD  and  120  mg  QD  showed  a  significantly  earlier  time  to  first response 
compared with placebo based on the stratified log-rank test. Duloxetine 120 mg QD showed a 
significantly higher sustained response rate compared with placebo. 
20
 
 
 
•  PGI-Improvement:  All  three  doses  of  duloxetine  showed  statistically  significant  superiority 
over placebo at different visits in the repeated measures analysis.  
•  Other  secondary  endpoints  at  3  months:  All  three  doses  of  duloxetine  showed  statistically 
significant superiority over placebo in the mean change analysis and at different visits in the 
21
 
 
 
 
 
 
repeated measures analysis in CGI-Severity score. None of doses were statistically superior to 
placebo in the FIQ Total score and Tender Point Pain Thresholds.  
Health Outcomes/Quality-of-Life Evaluation 
•  3-Month  Therapy  Phase.  No  statistically  significant  treatment-group  differences  were 
observed  for  all  4  measures  of  the  SDS.  Duloxetine  60  mg  QD  and  120  mg  QD  showed  a 
greater  mean  increase  (improvement)  compared  with  placebo  on  the  mental  component 
summary, bodily pain, mental health, and role emotional score of the SF-36. The mean change 
analysis of the EQ-5D for all randomized patients during the 3-month therapy phase showed 
that  Duloxetine  20  mg  QD  showed  a  greater  mean  increase  (improvement)  compared  with 
placebo. 
•  6-Month  Therapy  Phase:  No  significant  treatment  group  differences  were  observed  on  the 
mean change analysis of the SDS for all randomized. Duloxetine 60 mg QD showed a greater 
mean  increase  (improvement)  compared  with  placebo  on  the  bodily  pain  and  mental  health 
scores. Duloxetine 120 mg QD showed a greater mean increase (improvement) compared with 
placebo  on  the  mental  component  summary  and  mental  health  score  of  SF-36.  Duloxetine 
20/60  mg  QD  showed  a  significantly  greater  mean  increase  (improvement)  compared  with 
placebo in the EQ-5D. 
Subgroup Analyses 
•  3-Month Therapy Phase: No significant treatment-by-subgroup interactions were observed on 
the mean change analysis by investigator on the BPI average pain score or by subgroup (age, 
sex, race, diagnosis of MDD, secondary diagnosis of anxiety, or previous antidepressant use) 
No significant treatment-by-subgroup interactions were observed on the mean change analysis 
by investigator of the PGI-Improvement score or by subgroup. 
•  6-Month Therapy Phase: No significant treatment-by-subgroup interactions were observed on 
the mean change analyses of the BPI average pain score by investigator or by subgroup. No 
significant treatment-by-subgroup interactions were observed on the mean change analysis of 
PGI-Improvement score by investigator or by subgroup 
HMEF Study 
Study HMEF was a Phase 3, parallel, double-blind, placebo-controlled flexible-dose study in male and 
female patients designed to assess the efficacy of duloxetine 60/120 mg QD compared with placebo on 
the treatment of pain in patients with ACR-defined primary fibromyalgia, with or without MDD, 
during the 6-month therapy phase of the study. 
Results 
There were no differences in terms of incidence of historical diagnoses, secondary conditions (except 
for  a  higher  incidence  of  hyperlipidaemia  in  duloxetine-treated  patients),  previous  therapy  for 
fibromyalgia and/or depression (except for higher incidence of amitriptyline and citalopram and lower 
incidence  of  tramadol  in  duloxetine-treated  patients),  and  tobacco  use  and  average  alcohol 
consumption.  A  significant  treatment  group  difference  was  observed  for  the  use  of  zolpidem  as 
concomitant  therapy,  with  the  highest  incidence  of  use  in  duloxetine  patients.  No  significant 
differences were observed for the BPI average pain, FIQ total score, Mean Tender Point Threshold, 
Count of Low Threshold, CGI-Severity or PGI-Severity. No significant differences among treatment 
groups  were  observed  for  baseline  HAMD17  scores  by  MDD  status.  Significantly  more  duloxetine-
treated  patients  were  not  compliant  at  Visit  3  compared  with  placebo-treated  patients.  At  Visit  7 
significantly  more  placebo-treated  patients  were  not  compliant  compared  with  duloxetine-treated 
patients. 
22
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary Efficacy Analysis 
•  BPI average pain score: Duloxetine-treated patients showed greater numerically improvement 
than did placebo-treated patients, but the difference was not statistically significant (p=.053). 
BPI  average  pain  score  mean  change  was  -1.11  (17.2%)  in  placebo  and  -1.66  (25.1%)  in 
duloxetine  groups.  There  was  a  statistically  significant  treatment-by  investigator  interaction 
(p=.015). 
•  PGI-Improvement: Duloxetine-treated patients showed greater numerically improvement than 
did  placebo-treated  patients,  but  the  difference  was  not  statistically  significant  (p=.064). 
Placebo patients rated their improvement 3.75±1.37 while duloxetine patients rated 3.45±1.56. 
There was a statistically significant treatment-by-investigator interaction (p=.004). 
•  Secondary  Gatekeeper  Efficacy  Analysis:  There  was  no  statistically  significant  difference 
between treatment groups in the mean change analysis of the SDS total score. 
23
 
 
 
 
 
 Secondary Efficacy Analysis 
•  3-month  Comparison  for  all  randomized  patients:  There  were  no  statistically  significant 
differences  between  treatment  groups  in  the  mean  change  analysis  of  the  BPI  average  pain 
score, PGI-Improvement or SDS total score. 
•  6-month analysis of qualified patients: Duloxetine-treated patients showed greater numerically 
improvement in BPI average pain score than did placebo-treated patients at the BPI average 
pain score, but the difference was not statistically significant. The mean PGI-Improvement at 
endpoint  for  all  qualified  patients  was  significantly  greater  in  duloxetine  compared  with 
placebo. 
•  6-month analysis of BPI for all randomized patients: 1) Mean change analysis: No significant 
differences  were  observed  in  BPI  worst  pain  score  and  BPI  pain  right  now  score.  Only  a 
significant  greater  decrease  in  the  BPI  least  pain  score  and  BPI  average  interference  score 
were observed in duloxetine patients. 2) Repeated measures analysis: Overall, BPI pain scales 
only  showed  statistically  significant  superiority  over  placebo  at  a  few  points.  When  only 
patients who remained on duloxetine 60 mg QD after Visit 8 (Week 13), were compared with 
those whose dose was increased to 120 mg QD (duloxetine 60/120 mg QD), patients on 60 mg 
QD  showed  greater  improvement  on  the  BPI  average  pain  score.  Sub-analysis  on  patients 
excluding  those  with  C-reactive  protein  >12  mg/L  or  an  incorrect  case  report  form  (CRF) 
worksheet render no differences by treatment group.  
•  6-month analysis of FIQ for all randomized patients: Duloxetine-treated patients experienced 
significantly greater improvement only on the FIQ pain score compared with placebo-treated 
patients.  
•  Percentage of responders: No differences were observed in the percentage of responders at 6 
months.  
Health Outcomes/Quality-of-Life Evaluation 
•  3-Month  Therapy  Phase:  No  statistically  significant  treatment-group  differences  were 
observed for all randomized patients or subgroup analysis (minor differences were observed 
between  duloxetine  60  mg  QD  and  duloxetine  60/120  mg  QD  groups)  in  SDS.  Duloxetine-
treated  patients  experienced  a  significant  improvement  for  the  SF-36  mental  component 
summary and the mental health domain compared with placebo-treated patients on the mean 
change  from  baseline  to  endpoint  for  all  randomized  patients  in  the  acute  therapy  phase. 
Duloxetine  also  showed  greater improvement  compared  with placebo  on the  SF-36  physical 
component summary, bodily pain, general health, physical functioning, role-emotional, role-
physical,  social  functioning,  and  vitality,  but  these  differences  were  not  statistically 
significant. There were no significant differences among treatment groups in EQ-5D.  
24
 
 
 
 
Subgroup Analyses 
There was a statistically significant treatment-by-subgroup interaction for previous antidepressant use, 
for  which  duloxetine  treated  patients  had  statistically  significantly  greater  improvement  compared 
with placebo-treated patients, but not for patients without previous antidepressant use. 
A  statistically  significant  treatment-by-investigator  interaction  was  observed  in  the  mean  change 
analysis of the BPI average pain score. There were 36 investigators that enrolled patients; these were 
in  Germany,  Spain,  Sweden,  the  United  Kingdom  (UK),  and  the  United  States  (US).  Half  of  these 
investigators had fewer than 8 patients with baseline and endpoint data for the BPI average pain score 
and  were  pooled  into  1  investigator,  999,  for  analysis  purposes.  The  pooled  investigator  showed  a 
better  BPI  average  pain  result  for  duloxetine  than  for  placebo.  There  were  10  of  the  18  unpooled 
investigators  that  had  better  BPI  results  for  placebo  than  for  duloxetine.  These  were  from  Spain, 
Germany,  Sweden,  and  the  US  (all  UK  sites  were  pooled).  For  each  country  with  more  than  1 
investigator, the results were not consistently better for 1 treatment than the other, suggesting that the 
treatment-by investigator interaction was not attributable to country-specific factors. 
HMEH Study 
Study HMEH was a 1-year safety study consisting of an 8-week open-label period, followed by a 52-
week double-blind, randomized period. The primary objective was to assess the long-term safety and 
tolerability of duloxetine at doses up to 120 mg QD for up to 60 weeks in patients with ACR-defined 
primary fibromyalgia, with or without MDD. Additionally, Study HMEH contained an assessment of 
persistence of efficacy of duloxetine on pain based on those patients who, at the completion of the 60 
mg QD open-label phase of the study, were randomized to remain on 60 mg QD. 
Results 
No significant treatment group differences were observed in the baseline severity of fibromyalgia with 
a  BPI  average  pain  score  of,  FIQ  Total,  CGI-severity  score  and  PGI-severity  score.  A  significantly 
greater rate of non-compliance for the last study visit (Visit 301) was observed within the duloxetine 
120 mg QD treatment group when compared with duloxetine 60 mg QD treatment group. For all other 
visits  and  overall  compliance,  no  significant  differences  in  treatment  compliance  were  observed 
between treatment groups. 
Efficacy Analyses for the 8-week open-label study phase 
Consistent improvement was noted across all efficacy measures, as denoted by the significant changes 
in  mean  score  observed  from  baseline to  endpoint  for  all  efficacy  measures  (BPI  Worst  Pain,  Least 
Pain,  Average  Pain,  Pain  Right  Now,  and  Average  Interference  scores,  BDI-II  Total,  BDI  Item  9 
Score,  FIQ  Total  Score,  FIQ  Tiredness,  FIQ  Restedness  FIQ  Pain,  Mean  Tender  Point  Threshold, 
Count  of  Low  Threshold,  SDS  Global  Functional  Impairment  Total  Score,  CGI-Severity,  PGI-
Improvement). A total of 34.8% of patients were BPI responders at Visit 4, the end of the open-label 
study phase. 
25
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy Analyses for the double-blind study phase 
•  BPI:  No  significant  difference  in  mean  change  in  average  pain  scores  was  observed  with 
comparisons between treatment groups. The mean change in BPI average pain scores by BPI 
response status at Visit 4 for all randomized patients were also non significant different.  
For persistence of efficacy analysis, mean change in BPI average pain from baseline to endpoint 
did  not  reach  significance  in  the  initial  responders  on  duloxetine  60  mg  QD.  However,  initial 
responders began and ended the double-blind study phase with mean BPI average pain scores in 
the mild range that were well below the mean baseline pain scores at Visit 2.  
26
 
 
In  addition,  decreases  (improvements)  in  mean  average  pain  score  were  observed  for  no 
responders  within  both  treatment  groups.  Response  rates at endpoint  were  40.2%  for  duloxetine 
60QD and 39.11% for duloxetine 120QD. 
•  PGI-Improvement Score: A significantly lower (improvement) mean PGI-Improvement score 
at endpoint was observed with duloxetine 60 mg QD when compared with duloxetine 120 mg 
QD.  
Subgroups  analysis  by  BPI  response  status  during  the  double-blind  study  phase  showed  a 
significant  difference  with initial  responders  experiencing  a  lower  (improvement)  mean  score  at 
endpoint  when compared with no responders.  Within  the  no  responder  subgroup,  a  significantly 
lower (improvement) mean PGI-Improvement score at endpoint was observed with duloxetine 60 
mg QD when compared with duloxetine 120 mg QD. 
27
 
 
 
 
•  FIQ:  The  difference  in  the  FIQ  total  score  between  treatment  groups  was  significant  where 
duloxetine  60  mg  QD  experienced  a  decrease  (improvement)  and  duloxetine  120  mg  QD 
experienced an increase (negative impact). For all other items, no significant differences were 
observed  with  comparisons  between  treatment  groups.  Subgroup  analysis  does  not  show 
relevant differences between groups. 
•  Tender Point Threshold: A significantly greater increase (improvement) in Mean Tender Point 
Threshold was observed with duloxetine 60 mg QD when compared with duloxetine 120 mg 
QD. Analysis by BPI response status in the double-blind study phase showed that within the 
no responder subgroup, a significantly greater increase in Mean Tender Point Threshold was 
observed  with  duloxetine  60  mg  QD  when  compared  with  duloxetine  120  mg  QD.  Several 
sub-analyses render no differences or differences favouring those with duloxetine 60 mg QD.  
•  Clinical  Global  Impression  of  Severity:  Comparisons  between  treatment  groups  were  not 
significant. 
•  Health Outcomes: Mean change in the SDS Global Functional Impairment total score for all 
randomized patients in the double-blind study phase showed a significant mean difference in 
the  SDS  total  score  was  observed  with  comparisons  between  treatment  groups  where 
duloxetine 60 mg QD experienced a mean score decrease (improvement) while duloxetine 120 
mg QD experienced a slight increase (negative impact). 
CHMP Assessment of Efficacy data 
Further  to  the  evaluation  of  the  initially  submitted  data  supporting  this  variation,  the  CHMP 
considered  that  although  some  degree  of  effect  could  be  observed  across  short-term  studies,  the 
robustness  of  the  efficacy  database  was  insufficient  to  conclude  a  relevant  effect  of  duloxetine  in 
patients with fibromyalgia. The MAH was requested to provide additional analyses in order to explore 
whether the modest effect could be regarded as consistently demonstrated and clinically relevant for 
the intended target population. In addition, the MAH was requested to demonstrate the persistence of 
efficacy at one year, since no significant benefit with increasing the duloxetine dose from 60 mg QD 
to 120 mg was shown. 
The CHMP major objections dealt with the following key aspects: 
Short-term efficacy of duloxetine in fibromyalgia 
Only one study (HMCA) performed entirely in the USA and including only woman had robust results 
in both primary and secondary variables. This study was designed after the preliminary study HMBO 
rendered  negative  results  on  primary  outcome  variables  (FIQ  total  and  FIQ  pain)  on  the  whole 
population and  only  positive  results  in  the subgroup analysis  by  gender.  Study  HMCJ  also  obtained 
positive results in primary outcome variables, but again it was only developed in the USA, included 
male patients, and the results on secondary variables were less predictable than in the HMCA study. 
The first multinational study (HMEF) failed to show differences between active treatment and placebo 
due to a significant treatment-by-investigator interaction for primary and secondary efficacy variables.  
The  CHMP  pointed  out  that  a  robust  and  clinically  relevant  short-term  effect  in  the  intended  target 
population  has  not  been  convincingly  demonstrated.  Results  from  pivotal  studies  show  inconsistent 
results regarding primary endpoints with a modest magnitude of effect. Moreover, the impact of the 
effect  on  primary  endpoints  on  relevant  secondary  effect  has  not  been  consistently  shown  across 
studies.  The  responder  data  presented  as  an  illustration  of  clinical  relevance  of  the  mean  effects 
demonstrated  in  the  primary  analyses  are  not  impressive.  Furthermore,  it  is  not  obvious  how 
discontinuations are treated in the responder analyses.  
In  reply  to  CHMP  concerns,  the  MAH  has  submitted  several  3-month  post-hoc  responder  analyses 
where discontinuing patients, those who did not have a post baseline value or who did not have a final 
visit  value,  were  considered  as  non-responders  (named  withdrawal  failure  approach).  The  results  of 
these additional analyses can be summarized as follows: 
•  Responder definition in terms of reduction of pain after 3 month treatment. A lower magnitude of 
reduction  of  pain  (for  both  placebo  and  active  patients)  is  shown  when  the  withdrawal  failure 
approach  is  used.  When  using  the  more  restrictive  approach  of  at  least  50%  improvement  as  a 
28
 
 
 
 
 
definition  of  responder,  slightly  above  25%  of  patients  responded  to  duloxetine,  while  slightly 
above  15%  responded  to  placebo.  This  meaning  that  when  this  more  conservative  handling  of 
missing data approach is adopted, the results in terms of differences from placebo remain constant 
(absolute difference between treatment arms of 10.8% in the pooled analysis) as compared to the 
LOCF  approach  (absolute  difference  between  treatment  arms  of  11.4%  in  the  pooled  analysis), 
though the total number of patients responding falls from 35% to 27% among duloxetine treated 
patients  and  from  24%  to  17%  among  placebo  treated  patients.  The  same  trend  is  observed  for 
sustained  response:  lower response rate  for  duloxetine  and  PBO  when  the  Baseline  Observation 
Carried Forward (BOCF) approach is used, though the net difference between treatment arms in 
the pooled analysis is kept (around 11%). No significant benefit with increasing doses from 60 mg 
BID or 120 mg QD is observed as compared to 60 mg QD. Remarkably, this flat response curve 
also involves the 20 mg dose. 
•  Responder definition in terms of PGI-Improvement: When response was presented according the 
patient perception of general functioning, 32% duloxetine patients defined their improvement as 
very  much  better  or  much  better  at  the  end  of  the  treatment  (3  months  therapy)  versus  18%  of 
placebo patients.  
•  When  both  criteria  (pain  alleviation  and  personal  improvement)  were  put  together  in  order  to 
better  define  the  effect  of  duloxetine  in  reliable  terms  14%  patient  reduced  at  least  30%  their 
initial level of pain, feeling better or much better after placebo treatment. A modest response of 
25% (in all studies lower than 30%, whatever dose is considered, except with 60 mg QD in study 
HMCA where the response rate was 30.5%) was observed after 3 months of duloxetine treatment. 
The CHMP considered that these additional analyses confirmed its initial opinion: the observed effect 
is modest and its clinical relevance is questionable. Furthermore, despite the consistent trend, overall 
only 1 out of 4 studies showed a consistent effect in both primary and secondary endpoints (despite the 
results  of  the  pooled  analyses).  The  CHMP  pointed  out  that  the  preliminary  study  HMBO  was 
negative in its primary endpoint (a disease specific instrument), study HMCJ showed a positive results 
in its primary analysis, but not consistently supported by the results on relevant secondary endpoints, 
and  finally,  study  HMEF  had  non-significant  results  (negative  study).  This  aspect  should  be 
considered when putting in perspective the value of the pooled analyses provided by the MAH. The 
CHMP  concluded  that  the  magnitude  of  the  short-term  effect  is  small  and  not  consistently 
accompanied  by  a  robust  effect  on  secondary  endpoints,  including  disease  specific  variables  and 
quality  of  life.  In  addition,  2  out  of  4  clinical  studies  failed  to  reach  statistical  significance  in  their 
primary endpoints. 
Representativeness of the studied population 
The CHMP considered that looking into the characteristics of patients included in pivotal studies, they 
are thought to represent a population of moderate severity in clinical setting. No special criteria were 
requested  for  the  selection  of  severe,  resistant  or  non-responder  to  previous  treatment  patients. 
Moreover, since duloxetine/placebo were not given as add-on therapy to background therapy, but all 
background treatments were removed before study therapy was initiated, it could be considered that 
the  enrolled  patient  population  would  in  principle  be  reasonably  likely  to  respond  to  treatment. 
Therefore the CHMP concluded that his fact adds doubts on the clinical relevance of the modest effect 
observed in clinical trials, which further question its relevance for real clinical practice.  
The  claimed  effect  of  duloxetine  has  not  been  replicated  in  all  studies.  Unfortunately  the  more 
negative trial was the only study in which EU citizens were enrolled. In the MAH’s opinion the lack of 
statistical  differences  between  US  and  EU  patients  guarantees  the  extrapolation  of  results  among 
different  regions.  The  significant  treatment-by-investigator  interaction  for  primary  and  secondary 
variables detected in the multinational (EU) study does not support these conclusions. This fact may 
be  especially  relevant  considering  that  information  on  non-pharmacological  approaches  to  treat 
patients with fibromyalgia is limited or non-existing. Whether it might have an impact on the finally 
observed treatment effect and whether the application of these non-drug measures was homogeneous 
between US and EU remains unknown.  
29
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP concluded that effect has not been demonstrated in an EU clinical setting. It is uncertain 
whether regional differences in medical and social culture (non-pharmacological treatment, diagnosis 
in clinical practice, etc.) preclude extrapolation from non-EU studies. 
Independence of the observed effect from the known effect of duloxetine on mood disorders 
The CHMP observed that the influence of the potential effect of duloxetine on depression in the global 
response of fibromyalgia was evaluated taking into account the HAMD scores stratification and MDD 
diagnosis.  When  the  population  was  analyzed  according  the  HAMD  score,  it  can  be  observed  a 
numerical trend toward a lower placebo response inversely related to HAMD scoring categories. The 
opposite can be observed with duloxetine effect. This finding result in a consistent higher numerical 
treatment differences in terms of BPI as with higher HAMD scores, which is not completely consistent 
with  a  true  independent  effect.  The  same  trend  is  observed  when  patients  with  MDD  diagnosis  at 
baseline are considered as compared to non-MDD patients (independently from the HAMD scoring). 
The  CHMP  concluded  that  these  findings  support  a  strong  non-specific  component  of  the  treatment 
effect and partially contradict the path analyses for the direct analgesic effect of duloxetine performed 
in the clinical studies. In clinical studies, the direct effect of duloxetine on the reduction on the pain 
appears  to  account  for  the  most  of  the  total  treatment  effect  versus  an  indirect  effect  through  the 
improvement of mood symptoms.     
Long-term efficacy 
The  CHMP  pointed  out that  the  complete absence  of  a  dose-response relationship  and  the  lack  of  a 
placebo  arm  in  the  long-term  study  preclude  drawing  conclusions  on  the  maintenance  of  the  effect 
with  duloxetine  in  the  long-term.  The  additional  analysis  provided  by  the  MAH  does  not  overcome 
this essential limitation of the study. The MAH proposed to include in the SPC a statement advising to 
stop treatment in patients not responding after an initial period of treatment. The CHMP believes that 
this is a reasonable proposal to be considered on an individual basis, but does not prevent the need for 
demonstrating that a long-term maintenance effect is present in the whole population. In addition, no 
data are available for the effect longer than 6-month period time. Only uncontrolled data of treatment 
up 1 year-treatment period are available. In reply to this concern, the MAH proposed to evaluate the 
response after 2 months of treatment. The CHMP argued that a modest short-term effect on pain is not 
deemed enough to get a long-term indication on the whole condition. Therefore, long-term placebo-
controlled  data  have  been  requested  from  CHMP  since  the  long-term  maintenance  of  the  effect 
remains unproven. 
Conclusions 
The  concerns  raised  by  CHMP  remain.  The  short-term  effect  has  not  been  robustly  demonstrated. 
Only a small effect has been shown, which on the other hand has not been consistently demonstrated 
in all trials. Furthermore it is unlikely to be truly independent from the drug effect on mood disorders, 
a  frequent  co-morbid  condition  in  patients  with  fibromyalgia.  Importantly,  there  are  still  caveats  on 
whether  the  observed  results  from  pivotal  studies  are  relevant  and  reasonably  applicable  to  an  EU 
clinical setting. No demonstration on the long-term maintenance of the effect has been provided. The 
B/R remains negative. 
3.5 Clinical safety 
Patient Exposure 
The primary overall duloxetine analyses set comprises a total of 1236 duloxetine patients (representing 
571.69 patient-years exposure to duloxetine), including patients from the primary placebo-controlled 
analyses set, the long-term Study HMEH, and 10 patients who entered Study HMCN (Table 2.5.5.2). 
Among these patients, 574 (46.4%) had ≥6 months of exposure to duloxetine, and 219 (17.7%) had 
≥12 months of exposure to duloxetine.  
30
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  all  placebo-controlled  analyses  set  (all  indications),  9445  patients  were  randomized  to 
duloxetine  treatment  (approximately  1638  patient-years  of  exposure)  and  6770  were  randomized  to 
placebo treatment (approximately 1237 patient-years of exposure). The overall duloxetine exposures 
analyses set included 27,229 duloxetine-treated patients as of 12 May 2007. 
Adverse events 
The  incidence  of  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  (TEAEs)  in  the  primary  placebo-controlled 
analyses set for events where the incidence in the duloxetine treatment group was ≥5.0% and the rate 
for duloxetine was significantly higher than placebo is summarized in the table below.  
Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events by Decreasing Frequency. Adverse Events Reported in ≥ 5% and Significantly 
more Frequently in Duloxetine Than Placebo in the Primary Placebo-Controlled Analyses Set. 
MedDRA 
Preferred Term. 
All Randomized 
Patients Using 
the Different 
Safety Analyses 
Sets    
All Placebo-Controlled 
(all indications) 
Primary Placebo-
Controlled 
Primar
y 
Overall 
Primar
y Long-
Term 
All DLX 
Exposures
(all 
indications) 
PBO
N=535 
DLX 
N=876 
DLX 
N=350 
DLX 
N=1236 
Event a 
ANY EVENT 
Nausea 
Headache 
Dry mouth 
Insomnia 
Fatigue 
Constipation 
Diarrhea 
Dizziness 
Somnolence 
Hyperhidrosis 
Decreased appetite 
% 
79.4 
11.4 
12.0 
5.2 
9.2 
7.1 
3.6 
7.9 
6.7 
2.8 
1.1 
0.6 
% 
88.8 
29.3 
20.0 
18.2 
14.5 
13.5 
14.5 
11.6 
11.0 
9.6 
6.8 
6.5 
p-val 
<.001 
<.001 
<.001 
<.001 
.003 
<.001 
<.001 
.018 
.011 
<.001 
<.001 
<.001 
% 
93.1 
40.6 
29.4 
17.1 
19.7 
11.1 
17.4 
12.9 
18.9 
14.0 
11.4 
4.6 
% 
90.2 
33.2 
22.7 
18.0 
16.3 
13.3 
15.6 
12.2 
13.3 
10.8 
8.4 
6.0 
PBO 
N=677
0 
% 
58.2 
7.5 
9.9 
4.1 
3.9 
3.8 
3.3 
4.9 
4.0 
1.6 
1.3 
0.7 
DLX 
N=9445 
DLX 
N=27,229 
% 
73.6 
24.3 
12.6 
12.9 
8.7 
9.2 
10.3 
7.6 
9.5 
6.9 
5.7 
3.5 
p-val 
<.001 
<.001 
<.001 
<.001 
<.001 
<.001 
<.001 
<.001 
<.001 
<.001 
<.001 
<.001 
% 
77.1 
25.9 
14.1 
12.9 
10.5 
10.0 
10.9 
8.7 
10.6 
8.4 
6.8 
3.5 
Overall,  patients  who  experienced  and  reported  the  most  common  adverse  events  tended  to  do  so 
early, and they reported the events as being generally of mild to moderate severity.  No single event 
led to the discontinuation of more than 2% of patients in the primary placebo-controlled studies.  
With  regard  to  gender,  more  females  than  males  reported  fatigue  (about  twice  as  many)  and 
somnolence (about 5 times as many).  However, the clinical relevance of the subgroup analyses was 
limited by the small number of male patients. 
With  regards  to  age,  the  adverse  event  profile  for  older  patients  was  similar  to  that  of  the  younger 
group.  Decreased appetite was reported approximately 2 times more frequently in the < 55-year-old 
subgroup compared with the ≥55-year-old subgroup.  
31
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The incidence of the most common adverse events was similar in the subgroups of <65 years old and 
≥65 years old; however, few patients were in the latter subgroup. 
For  reasons  that  are  unclear,  non-Caucasian  patients  appeared  to  report  most  adverse  events  more 
frequently.    This  finding  may  be  related  to  cultural  differences  in  the  way  adverse  events  were 
perceived and reported.  Somnolence, in particular, was reported more frequently in the non-Caucasian 
subgroup (21.0%) compared with the Caucasian subgroup (8.0%). 
Most Common Adverse Events by Demographics Subgroups. MedDRA Preferred Term 
All Duloxetine Patients. Primary Placebo-Controlled Analyses Set 
Duloxetine N=876 
Age 
Gender 
Origin 
Event a 
<55 
N=560 
% 
89.1 
ANY EVENT 
30.4 
Nausea 
18.9 
Headache 
16.6 
Dry mouth  
13.8 
Insomnia 
15.0 
Fatigue  
13.0 
Constipation  
12.7 
Diarrhoea  
12.0 
Dizziness  
8.8 
Somnolence  
7.3 
Hyperhidrosis  
Decreased appetite 
8.0 
Abbreviations:  Cauc = Caucasian; N = number of patients. 
a  Event list comprises those TEAEs in the primary placebo-controlled analyses set for which the rate for 
Female
N=829
% 
88.5 
29.6 
19.9 
18.5 
14.6 
13.9 
14.8 
11.5 
11.2 
10.0 
6.8 
6.6 
Cauc 
N=771 
% 
88.3 
28.8 
18.9 
17.4 
14.8 
14.0 
14.3 
12.1 
10.0 
8.0 
6.9 
6.5 
≥55 
N=316
% 
88.3 
27.5 
21.8 
20.9 
15.8 
10.8 
17.1 
9.8 
9.2 
11.1 
6.0 
3.8 
<65 
N=799
% 
88.6 
29.5 
20.0 
17.9 
14.9 
13.4 
14.3 
12.0 
10.9 
9.3 
6.9 
6.6 
≥65 
N=77 
% 
90.9 
27.3 
19.5 
20.8 
10.4 
14.3 
16.9 
7.8 
11.7 
13.0 
6.5 
5.2 
Male 
N=47 
% 
93.6 
25.5 
21.3 
12.8 
12.8 
6.4 
8.5 
14.9 
6.4 
2.1 
8.5 
4.3 
Other
N=105
% 
92.4 
33.3 
27.6 
23.8 
12.4 
9.5 
16.2 
8.6 
18.1 
21.0 
6.7 
6.7 
duloxetine was ≥5.0% and significantly higher than placebo. 
b  Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test for general association, controlling for study. 
Source:  FQAESF81 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Deaths 
No deaths were reported in the fibromyalgia studies. 
In  the  overall  duloxetine  exposures  analyses  set  (all  indications)  consisting  of  more  than  27,000 
patients, 30 deaths occurred, of which 6 occurred after discontinuation from study participation, and 1 
occurred prior to study drug administration.  In addition, 2 deaths were reported in ongoing studies. 
A  total  of  20  deaths  (14  patients  treated  with  duloxetine  and  6  patients  treated  with  placebo)  were 
reported in the all placebo-controlled analyses set (all indications).  
Serious Adverse Events 
A total of 21 (2.4%) duloxetine-treated and 11 (2.1%) placebo-treated patients reported at least 1 SAE 
in  the  primary  placebo-controlled  analyses  set.    There  were  no  significant  or  clinically  important 
treatment differences in the incidence of individual SAEs.  No single event was predominant. 
A total of 19 (5.4%) duloxetine-treated patients experienced at least 1 SAE in the primary long-term 
analyses set  (Study  HMEH).  More  SAEs  were  reported in the  primary  long-term  analyses  set  when 
compared  with  the  primary  placebo-controlled  analyses  set.    This  result  was  most  likely  due  to  a 
longer observation of the patients. 
A  total  of  40  (3.2%)  duloxetine-treated  patients  experienced  at  least  1  SAE  in  the  primary  overall 
duloxetine analyses set. 
32
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious Adverse Events by System Organ Class 
All Randomized Patients. Primary Analyses Sets 
Patients with ≥ 1 SAE (n [%]) 
System Organ Class 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Endocrine disorders 
Eye Disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
General disorders and administration site 
conditions 
Infections and infestations 
Injury, poisoning, and procedural 
complications 
Investigations 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders 
Neoplasms benign, malignant, and 
unspecified 
Nervous system disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Reproductive system and breast 
disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic, and mediastinal 
disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Social circumstances 
Vascular disorders 
Placebo-Controlled 
PBO 
N=535 
11 (2.1) 
% 
–  
0.2 
– 
– 
0.4 
DLX 
N=876 
21 (2.4) 
% 
–  
0.1 
– 
 – 
0.1 
.480 
.245 
p-val a 
Long-Term  Overall 
DLX 
N=350 
19 (5.4) 
% 
– 
0.3 
0.3 
– 
0.6 
DLX 
N=1236 
40 (3.2) 
% 
– 
0.2 
0.1 
– 
0.2 
0.3 
0.5 
0.3 
0.1 
0.1 
0.3 
0.2 
0.1 
0.2 
0.1 
0.4 
0 
0.2 
0 
0 
0.2 
0 
0 
0.2 
0 
0.1  
0.6  
.940 
.134 
.721 
.474 
.536 
.408 
.381 
.309 
.938 
.536 
.071 
0.1  
0.2  
.480 
– 
– 
–  
– 
– 
–  
– 
0.3 
1.1 
– 
– 
– 
0.3 
0.9 
1.4 
0.3 
– 
– 
0.3 
0.3 
0.3 
0.2 
0.4 
0.6 
0.1 
0.1 
0.2 
0.2 
0.3 
0.6 
0.2 
0.1 
0.1 
0.1 
0.1 
0.1 
A  total  of  136  patients  treated  with  duloxetine  (1.4%)  and  83  patients  treated  with  placebo  (1.2%) 
reported at least 1 SAE in the all placebo-controlled analyses set (all indications) and a total of 947 
patients  (3.5%)  reported  at  least  1  SAE  in  the  overall  duloxetine  exposures  analyses  set  (all 
indications).  In addition, 53 patients reported new SAEs in ongoing studies.  
The frequency of SAEs observed in duloxetine treated patients in the fibromyalgia population (2.4%) 
tended  to  be  slightly  higher  than  in  the  all  placebo-controlled  (all  indications)  analyses  set  (1.4%).  
However, this was also true for patients taking placebo (2.1% versus 1.2%), suggesting that this was a 
population-specific phenomenon, and not a drug-specific phenomenon. 
The  discontinuation  rate  for  the  most  common  adverse  events  for  duloxetine  in  the  treatment  of 
fibromyalgia is depicted in the table below. 
The overall  incidence  of adverse  events  leading  to  discontinuation  was similar between  the  primary 
placebo-controlled  and  the  primary  long-term  analyses  sets,  providing  reassurance  that  long-term 
exposure  to  duloxetine  did  not  increase  the  likelihood  of  experiencing  an  adverse  event  that  would 
lead to discontinuation. 
33
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary Placebo-
Controlled 
Primar
y Long-
Term 
Primary 
Overall 
All Placebo-Controlled 
(all indications) 
PBO 
N=535 
DLX 
N=876 
DLX 
N=350 
DLX 
N=1236 
PBO 
N=6770 
DLX 
N=944
5 
All DLX 
Exposures 
(all 
indications) 
DLX 
N=27,229 
Event a 
ANY EVENT  
( % [n]) 
Nausea 
Headache 
Dry mouth 
Insomnia 
Fatigue 
Constipation 
Diarrhoea 
Dizziness 
Somnolence 
Hyperhidrosis 
Decreased appetite 
% 
11.8 
(63) 
0.7 
0.2 
0 
0.7 
0.2 
0.2 
0.2 
0.6 
0 
0 
- 
% 
p-valb 
% 
% 
% 
% 
19.5 
(171) 
1.9 
0.9 
0.1 
1.1 
1.3 
0.3 
0.8 
0.7 
1.5 
0.5 
- 
<.001 
.074 
.146 
.309 
.411 
.073 
.721 
.077 
.672 
.003 
.149 
- 
21.1 
(74) 
1.4 
0.3 
- 
2.6 
0.6 
0.6 
1.4 
1.4 
0.3 
0.3 
- 
20.4 
(252) 
1.9 
0.7 
0.2 
1.6 
1.1 
0.5 
1.0 
0.9 
1.1 
0.4 
- 
4.6 
(310) 
0.5 
0.2 
0 
0.2 
0.2 
0.1 
0.1 
0.2 
0.0 
0 
- 
14.0 
(1325) 
3.1 
0.6 
0.1 
0.7 
0.8 
0.2 
0.3 
0.8 
0.7 
0.1 
- 
p-
valb 
<.001 
<.001 
.002 
.006 
<.001 
<.001 
.104 
.001 
<.001 
<.001 
.002 
- 
% 
18.3 
(4991) 
3.5 
0.6 
0.2 
0.9 
1.0 
0.5 
0.5 
1.0 
0.8 
0.2 
0.0 
Safety Topics of Special Interest 
Suicidality 
A full assessment of suicide-related events in the primary placebo-controlled analyses set and the all 
placebo-controlled analyses set (all indications) has been conducted.   
There were 3 cases of suicide ideation (1 on duloxetine, 2 on placebo), but no suicide behaviours were 
reported during the placebo-controlled fibromyalgia studies.  No statistically significant differences of 
Mantel-Haenszel  incidence  differences  and  incidence  ratios  for  suicidal  behaviour  or  ideation  were 
observed from these analyses. 
Analyses  of  depression  scale  item  data  from  fibromyalgia  studies  revealed  that  significantly  more 
placebo-treated  patients  reported  the  emergence  of  any  suicidal  ideation  compared  with  duloxetine-
treated patients.  There was also a significantly higher proportion of worsening of suicidal ideation in 
placebo-treated  patients  compared  with  duloxetine-treated  patients.  There  was  no  statistically 
significant difference between the treatment groups in the frequency of improvement. 
Among  patients  with  depression  at  baseline,  statistically  significantly  more  placebo-treated  patients 
reported  the  emergence  of  any  suicidal  ideation  and  worsening  of  suicidal  ideation  compared  with 
duloxetine-treated patients.  There was a statistically significantly higher proportion of improvement 
of  suicidal  ideation  in  duloxetine-treated  patients  who  had  depression  at  baseline.    There  were  no 
statistically  significant  differences  in  the  scale  outcomes  among  patients  without  depression  at 
baseline. 
In addition to events found in the placebo-controlled fibromyalgia studies, there were 4 patients from 
Study HMEH who had suicide-related behaviour (3 suicidal ideation and 1 suicide attempt). 
In  the  updated  analysis  of  suicide-related  events  for  the  all  placebo-controlled  analyses  set  (all 
indications), the meta-analysis of the duloxetine placebo-controlled data did not show evidence of a 
statistically  significant  increased  risk  of  suicide-related  behaviors  and/or  ideation  in  patients  treated 
with  duloxetine  compared  with  those  treated  with  placebo.    A  numerically,  but  not  statistically 
significantly,  greater  incidence  of  Suicide  Behaviour  or  Ideation  events  (Mantel-Haenszel  Incidence 
Difference  [MHID]  =  1.70,  p=.065)  was  observed  in  duloxetine-treated  patients  compared  with 
placebo-treated patients in the 18 to <25 years of age subgroup.  This finding was primarily driven by 
suicidal ideation events in MDD patients.   
34
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Within  placebo-controlled  studies  (all  indications),  there  were  2  completed  suicides  (1  duloxetine-
treated  and  1  placebo-treated),  both  from  an  MDD  study.    There  were  9  non-fatal  suicide  attempts  
(7 duloxetine-treated, 2 placebo-treated), all from MDD studies.  The majority of events were related 
to  suicidal  ideation  (37  [0.40%]  in  duloxetine-treated  and  24  [0.36%]  in  placebo-treated  patients), 
most  occurring  in  psychiatric  conditions.    Suicide-related  thoughts  and  behaviours  within  non-
psychiatric conditions were very infrequent, and there were no completed suicides or suicide attempts.   
Suicidal  ideation  was  the  SAE  reported  most  frequently  (4  patients;  0.3%).    Three  of  these  patients 
were from the open-label long-term Study HMEH, and 1 patient was from Study HMCJ.  In addition, 
1 patient from Study HMEH had a suicide attempt.   
Overall,  the  results  of  the  meta-analyses  of  all  duloxetine  studies  were  consistent  with  results  of 
previous  meta-analyses.    In  the  fibromyalgia  studies  there  was  no  statistical  or  numerical  increased 
rate  of  suicide-related  events  in  duloxetine  patients  compared  with  the  placebo  patients;  therefore, 
Lilly does not believe there are any unique risks regarding suicide-related events associated with the 
use of duloxetine in patients with fibromyalgia. 
Hepatic Analyses 
In  the  primary  placebo-controlled  analyses  set,  duloxetine-treated  patients  had  significantly  greater 
increases from baseline to maximum in mean ALT, aspartate tansaminase (AST), alkaline phosphatase 
(ALKPH),  and  gamma  glutamyl  transferase (GGT)  values than  placebo-treated patients. There  were 
no  differences  from  baseline  to  maximum  between  duloxetine  and  placebo  in  mean  total  bilirubin 
(TBILI). 
There were no significant differences in the incidence of hepatic-related treatment-emergent adverse 
events  and  hepatic-related  serious  adverse  events  in  the  primary  placebo-controlled  analyses  set.  A 
small  difference  was  observed  in  the  frequency  of  transaminemia  (ALT  >3  times  ULN)  in  the 
fibromyalgia study population (1.37%) compared with the overall duloxetine population (1.11%).  A 
higher  difference  was  observed  between  the  corresponding  placebo  treatment  groups  (fibromyalgia 
patients:  0.44%; all indications:  0.23%), indicating that there was an indication-specific phenomenon 
occurrence.   
In  the  primary  placebo-controlled  analysis  set,  there  was  a  significantly  higher  incidence  of 
duloxetine-treated patients (0.57%) who discontinued due to a hepatic-related adverse event compared 
with placebo-treated patients (none).   
Severe Cutaneous Reactions 
A small proportion (1.4% duloxetine-treated patients compared with 0.2% of placebo-treated patients) 
of  fibromyalgia  patients  experienced  adverse  events  potentially  indicative  of  severe  cutaneous 
reactions,  although  approximately  half  of  the  events  were  isolated  reports  of  conjunctivitis.    No 
patients  discontinued  due  to  any  of  these  events  and  no  events  were  serious.    Therefore,  the  use  of 
duloxetine did not seem to pose a risk of severe cutaneous reactions in fibromyalgia patients. 
CHMP assessment of Safety Data 
The  duloxetine  safety  data  were  classified  into  5  different  analyses  sets,  three  from  the  five 
fibromyalgia studies (primary placebo-controlled (876 patients), primary long-term (350 patients), and 
primary  overall  duloxetine  sets  (1236  patients)),  and  two  sets  covering  all  indications  (all  placebo-
controlled analyses (9 445 patients), and overall duloxetine analyses sets (27 229 patients)). The “All 
placebo-controlled  analyses  set”  included  safety  data  from  studies  on  patients  with  fibromyalgia, 
major  depressive  disorder,  general  anxiety  disorder,  diabetic  peripheral  neuropathic  pain,  and  lower 
urinary tract disorder. 
Overall, the incidence of TEAEs was fairly consistent in all analyses sets. However, the fibromyalgia 
patients  tended  to  have  higher  frequency  of  AEs,  following  both  duloxetine  and  placebo 
administration, than the rest of the patients, suggesting a population-specific rather than drug-specific 
phenomenon. The CHMP considered that since only 5 % of the fibromyalgia patients were males, a 
gender-specific phenomenon should be considered and discussed by the MAH. In their response, the 
MAH  acknowledged  that  there  is  a generally  higher  rate  of  AE  in  the  fibromyalgia  population 
compared with other indications for duloxetine. In addition, the MAH pointed out that the number of 
male patients treated in the fibromyalgia indication is low and the CHMP agreed that no alarming data 
were found and that there is no obvious increase of AE in male.  
35
 
 
 
 
 
Duloxetine showed a higher incidence of adverse events with higher doses except for diarrhoea and 
fatigue. Although these differences were not significant for any of the adverse events when a formal 
comparison was made, this trend was consistent for most of events.  The MAH requested to provide a 
more detailed description of the AEs incidence by dose, with aggregated frequency distribution for 60 
mg,  120  mg  and  placebo  treated  patients  in  order  to  further  clarify  the  safety  profile  of  intended 
dosages.  The MAH provided two comparative analyses for the fixed doses studies or the four placebo 
controlled   studies in order to compare the safety profile of the intended doses (initial duloxetine 60 
mg QD dose or optional up titration 120 mg QD dose). A similar pattern was reported for both doses. 
Nausea,  headache,  dry  mouth,  insomnia,  fatigue,  constipation,  dizziness,  diarrhoea,  somnolence, 
decreased appetite, hyperhidrosis were reported among the common adverse events for duloxetine 60 
mg and 120 mg. According to the data provided, patients titrated up to 120 mg are expected to have 
higher incidence of dry mouth, constipation and sleep disturbances (insomnia/somnolence) than those 
remained at 60 mg.  No new safety concerns had arisen. The CHMP considered this issue to have been 
resolved. 
Increased weight (2.4%) was a significantly increased TEAE in the fibromyalgia patients, but not in 
the “all indications” patients. Therefore, the MAH was requested to discuss whether this discrepancy 
could be due to gender differences, and whether a development of weight increase over time can be 
observed in the long-term  safety data base. The MAH pointed out that weight gain was observed in 
both  genders  with  a  slightly  higher  percentage  of  females  compared  with  males.  Although  a  female 
predisposition  to  gain  weight  could  not  be  excluded,  gender  appears  to  play  a  minor  role  in  the 
development  of  weight  gain.  In  addition  the  MAH  explained  that  weight  gain  was  observed  as 
increased in the duloxetine treated group and was more obvious in the long-term treated. Furthermore, 
it was noted by the MAH that weight gain is already included in the SPC. The CHMP considered this 
issue to have been resolved. 
The  CHMP  mentioned  that  no  deaths  were  reported  in  the  fibromyalgia  studies.  More  than  40%  of 
patients included in the fibromyalgia studies discontinued due to any reason compared to 28% in other 
indications studies (all placebo-controlled analyses set). This is true also for placebo treated patients 
and  it  was  explained  as  a  population-specific  phenomenon  more  than  a  duloxetine-specific  finding.  
Discontinuation  due  to  AEs  was  significantly  more  frequent  in  the  duloxetine  group  (19.5%) 
compared with the placebo group (11.8%) particularly for the AE somnolence. In order to reduce the 
high initial discontinuation rate, the MAH was requested to discuss the possibility of a lower initial 
dose and a slower and more prolonged dose escalation in the fibromyalgia patient group. In reply to 
the CHMP concern, the MAH justified the discontinuation rates in fibromyalgia studies as related to 
an indication-specific and not a treatment-specific issue. The rate of discontinuation does not seem to 
differ whether the therapeutic doses are achieved in one or more steps. Admittedly, the impact on the 
efficacy  of  dosing  without  escalation  appears  to  be  much  lower  than  that  observed  on  the  safety. 
Therefore it is expectable that in terms of tolerability some patients could benefit from slower titration.  
The CHMP considered that issue to have been solved provided that the SPC is amended appropriately. 
According  to  the  findings  identified  during  the  continuous  safety  assessment  of  duloxetine  in  its 
different indications the following key events were closely monitored: 
a) Suicidality:  A total of seven suicide-related events were reported in fibromyalgia studies, four of 
them  in  the  open-label  long  term  study.  Six  cases  of  suicide  ideation  (four  on  duloxetine,  two  on 
placebo)  and  one  suicide  attempt  were  reported.  These  findings  indicate  that  the  concerns  about 
suicidal behaviour associated with duloxetine remain and stress the need of keeping and reinforcing 
ongoing initiatives to further assess this aspect. 
36
 
 
 
 
 
b)  Hepatic risk:  An  increased  incidence  of  moderate  to  severe  plasma  ALT  levels  was found in  the 
fibromyalgia  group.  The  MAH  related  these  findings  to  a  specific  indication  cause.  Admittedly,  it 
could also reflect a potential higher risk for this population. The CHMP requested the MAH to discuss 
the possibility that this is a gender-related AE. In addition, the MAH has been requested to present the 
occurrence  of  elevated  ALT  levels  in  males  and  females,  respectively,  in  the  overall  duloxetine 
population  (all  indications).  In  reply  to  CHMP  concerns,  the  MAH  pointed  out  that  duloxetine 
treatment  induces  transaminase  increases  in  females,  independently  from  the  indication  considered. 
However, some indications seem to provide an additional risk. Furthermore, the MAH admitted that 
the  nature  of  this  issue  deserves  to  be  dealt  with  in  the  RMP  and  it  is  one  of  the  identified  issues 
continue to be followed-up in it. The CHMP considered that issue to have been solved. 
c) Severe cutaneous reactions: Specific risks were not seen in the fibromyalgia study population.   
With the exception of abnormally high ALT values in the duloxetine-treated patients in the placebo-
controlled analyses sets no clinically significant changes were identified in the laboratory evaluations. 
Hyperglycemia (increase in fasting blood sugar and HbA1c) has been identified in DPNP clinical trials 
and it has been recently considered in the risk management plan for its monitoring. In principle there 
appear to be no signal of safety concerns in fibromyalgia population related to duloxetine treatment. 
However, since only limited data has been obtained in fibromyalgia clinical development this concern 
cannot be ruled out. 
The  effect  of  duloxetine  on  blood  pressure,  cardiac  frequency  and  Electrocardiogram  (ECG)  data 
(including  QT  interval)  has  been  repeatedly  assessed.  The  variations  observed  in  cardiovascular 
parameters  were  apparently  minimal  and  did  not  derive  in  major  clinical  events.  The  fibromyalgia 
patients  treated  with  duloxetine  showed  incidences  of  increase  blood  pressure,  heart  rate  and  QTcF 
increases similar to those observed for other indications.  However, the concomitant use of drugs with 
a  potential  effect  on  QT  (such  as  tricyclic  antidepressant  (TCAs))  could  enhance  the  cardiovascular 
risk in this population. The MAH was requested to comment on this.  The MAH pointed out that there 
are  no  specific  results  coming  from  pK/pD  interaction  studies  in  this  population.    The  MAH 
mentioned that the current SPC wording appropriately advises caution regarding the combination of 
duloxetine  with  other  centrally  acting  medicinal  products  taking  into  account  that  limited,  available 
clinical  evidence  has  not  demonstrated  an  increase  in  cardiovascular  risk  associated  with  co-
administration of duloxetine and TCAs. The CHMP considered that issue to have been solved. 
As  expected  in  fibromyalgia  studies,  few  males  (<  6%)  were  included  in  the  study  population.  In 
addition, the age group 65 years and older was small (<10%) in the fibromyalgia trials. The CHMP 
asked  the  MAH  to  discuss  in  more  detail  how  safety  issues  in  these  small  subgroups  can  be 
extrapolated from observations in the total duloxetine safety database. In reply to CHMP concerns, the 
MAH  explained  that  although  the  numbers  of  males  and  older  patients  (≥65  years  of  age)  were 
relatively small, results from the subgroup analyses performed as part of the original submission did 
not suggest a different safety profile compared with females and younger patients. Given the similarity 
of the overall safety profiles seen in all approved indications and now also in fibromyalgia and given 
the similar pattern observed across age groups and gender in the DPNP studies, the MAH mentioned 
that the results from the subgroups of males and elderly patients in the overall database applies equally 
to all indications and can be reasonably extrapolated to the fibromyalgia indication. The CHMP agreed 
that  in  spite  of  the  low  numbers,  there  not  appear  to  be  signal  of  an  increased  risk  in  these  two 
subgroups of patients associated with duloxetine treatment. 
Regarding pregnancies, a total of 77 pregnancies possibly exposed to duloxetine have been reported 
during all the indications clinical development of the product. Five out of 77 where reported during 
fibromyalgia studies. At least 27% of the pregnancies with known outcomes resulted in an unexpected 
or  undesirable  result  (ectopic  pregnancy,  abortion,  preterm  delivery  with  fetal  demise,  congenital 
abnormalities). The  CHMP  asked  the MAH  to  further  discuss it. The  MAH  agreed  with the  CHMP 
that  a  relationship  between  duloxetine  and  miscarriage  or  abnormalities  cannot  be  ruled  out.  In 
addition  the  MAH  mentioned  that  the  current  SPC  wording  on  pregnancy  appropriately  warns  the 
prescribing  physician  of  the  need  to  carefully  balance  the  benefit  versus  the  potential  risk  before 
exposing a pregnant woman to duloxetine.  
37
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP  concluded  that  given  the  low  number  of  reported  events  and  the  absence  of  a  specific 
pattern of the reported miscarriage or abnormalities there seems currently not to be a safety concern. 
However, fibromyalgia female patients represent a relevant target population at risk of drug exposure 
during pregnancy.  
Conclusions 
The  overall  safety  conclusion  is  that  the  size  of  the  safety  database  is  considered  adequate,  and  the 
exposure  to  duloxetine  has  been  adequately  summarised  by  the  MAH.  Given  the  pharmacological 
properties  of  duloxetine  there  is  nothing  unexpected  in  the  AE  profile.  Though  no  specific  safety 
concerns have been detected in fibromyalgia patients, long therapy with duloxetine may be associated 
with  potentially  long-term  safety  concerns,  mainly  in  relation  to  the  high  prevalence  of  co  morbid 
depression in this population.  For these reasons only a relevant efficacy assessment could support the 
potential risks of a non trivial long term treatment.  
4. Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application was of the opinion that it was not 
appropriate to consider risk minimisation activities at this time. 
5. Conclusions and Benefit / Risk Assessment 
The short-term efficacy of duloxetine in fibromyalgia patients was evaluated in 4 placebo controlled 
studies in  which  doses  of  duloxetine  ranging  from  20  mg  to  120  mg  per  day  were  tested.  After  the 
evaluation of the initially submitted data, the CHMP considered that although some degree of effect 
could be observed across short-term studies, the robustness of the efficacy database was insufficient to 
conclude a relevant effect of duloxetine in patients with fibromyalgia.   
The  MAH  was  requested  to  provide  additional  analyses  allowing  to  further  exploring  whether  the 
modest effect could be regarded as consistently demonstrated and clinically relevant for the intended 
target population.  
The  responses  to  the  CHMP  concerns  provided  by  the  MAH  did  not  alleviate  the  CHMP  concerns 
regarding the short-term efficacy of duloxetine in the treatment of fibromyalgia. The estimation of the 
effect size is not reassuring, and as for published data, it is at best rather smaller than the one observed 
for other therapies. This applies not only to pain, but also to functional evaluations.  
It  is  accepted that  the  HAMD  might  not  be  an optimal  tool to discriminate the  differential  effect  of 
duloxetine  on  fibromyalgia,  but  the  fact  is  that  the  data  show  a  clear  link  between  drug  effect  and 
mood. Whether this is not the case cannot be proven with the submitted data. 
Finally,  despite  the  fact  that  the  data  does  not  allow  to  conclude  that  there  are  a  differential  effect 
according  to  patient’s  origin,  the  fact  is  that  the  only  study  including  EU  patients  was  negative. 
Whether  this  might  have  been  influenced  by  different  background  therapy  strategies  need  to  be 
confirmed. 
All these concerns, reinforces the CHMP view that a clear demonstration of the efficacy of duloxetine 
in the short-term therapy of fibromyalgia in a patient population that is relevant for the EU setting is 
still lacking. 
Though  no  specific  safety  concerns  have  been  detected  in  fibromyalgia  patients,  long  therapy  with 
duloxetine may be associated with potentially long-term safety concerns, mainly in relation to the high 
prevalence  of  co  morbid  depression  in  this  population.    For  these  reasons  only  a  relevant  efficacy 
assessment could support the potential risks of a non trivial long term treatment.  
38
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In conclusion, the B/R on duloxetine for the fibromyalgia indication remains negative.  
6. Conclusion  
On 23 October 2008 the CHMP considered this Type II variation not to be acceptable. 
39
 
 
 
 
