x
-
Summary of Risk Management Plan for Cymbalta (duloxetine)
This is a summary of the RMP for Cymbalta. The RMP details important risks of Cymbalta, how 
these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Cymbalta’s risks 
and uncertainties (missing information).
Cymbalta’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Cymbalta should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Cymbalta should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all of which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Cymbalta’s 
RMP.
I - The Medicine and What It is Used for
Cymbalta is authorised for MDD, DPNP, and GAD (see SmPC for the full indication). Cymbalta 
contains duloxetine as the active substance and is given by oral administration.
Further information about the evaluation of Cymbalta’s benefits can be found in Cymbalta’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/000572/huma 
n_med_000732.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124.
II - Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or 
Further Characterise the Risks
Important risks of Cymbalta, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Cymbalta’s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in
the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A Cymbalta List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of Cymbalta are risks that need special risk management activities to further
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is
x
-
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Cymbalta. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine).
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
Suicidality
None 
None
II.B Cymbalta Summary of Important Risks
Important identified risk: Suicidality
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine
Suicidality has been considered a class effect across different antidepressant 
medicines for many years. With the exception of young adults and paediatric 
patients, the evidence linking duloxetine with suicidality is weak, with 
multiple evidence sources indicating that patients taking duloxetine are not at 
higher risk for suicidality when compared with placebo-treated patients. 
These data sources include meta-analyses conducted by Lilly and the US 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulatory agency, as well as data 
from observational studies. 
Risk factors and risk groups
Risk minimisation measures
The incidence estimates of suicidality in duloxetine-treated patients vary 
depending on data source and patient characteristics, but overall in 
postmarketing reporting (even taking into account recognised limitations of 
spontaneous data sources), the reporting rate of suicidality is very low. 
Although the results of the different meta-analyses conducted with 
duloxetine differ, with 1 analysis indicating a higher statistical risk than 
another, the overall trend across the class appears to be in children and in 
patients younger than 25 years old with psychiatric disorders.
Lilly’s meta-analyses of placebo-controlled studies with duloxetine suggest 
that there is a potential but not statistically significantly increased risk of 
suicidal thinking and behaviour in young adults (aged 18 to 24 years) with 
duloxetine treatment. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Sections 4.4, 4.8, and 5.1
Section 4.4 advises to monitor and supervise patients for suicidality and not 
to use in treatment of children and adolescents under the age of 18 years
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
No risk minimisation measures
x
-
x
-
II.C Cymbalta Postauthorisation Development Plan
II.C.1 Studies that are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of
Cymbalta.
II.C.2 Other Studies in Postauthorisation Development Plan
There are no studies required for Cymbalta.
x
-
x
-
