Part VI.  Summary of the Risk Management Plan 
Summary of risk management plan for Cyramza (ramucirumab) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Cyramza.  The RMP details important 
risks of Cyramza, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Cyramza’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Cyramza’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Cyramza should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Cyramza should be read in the context of all this information, 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all of which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Cyramza’s 
RMP. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
I. 
Cyramza is authorised for the treatment of advanced gastric cancer or gastro-oesophageal 
junction adenocarcinoma, metastatic colorectal cancer, locally advanced or metastatic non-small 
cell lung cancer, and hepatocellular carcinoma (see SmPC for the full indication).  It contains 
ramucirumab as the active substance and it is given by intravenous infusion. 
Further information about the evaluation of Cyramza’s benefits can be found in Cyramza’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage. 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/002829/huma
n_med_001825.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124  
II. 
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks 
Important risks of Cyramza, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Cyramza’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in 
the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., 
with or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
 
 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
II.A. 
List of important risks and missing 
information 
Important risks of Cyramza are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered.  
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential.  Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Cyramza.  Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation.  Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (for example, on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Arterial thromboembolic events 
Gastrointestinal perforation 
Serious haemorrhagic events 
Liver failure/liver injury (including hepatic encephalopathy in patients with 
HCC) 
Serious infection secondary to neutropenia 
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome 
Severe clinical outcomes of venous thromboembolic events 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity 
Not applicable 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
Abbreviation:  HCC = hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Summary of important risks 
II.B. 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
 
 
 
 
Important identified risk:  Arterial thromboembolic events (ATEs or blocking of the artery by a clot) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Arterial thromboembolic events (ATEs) have been associated with some 
antiangiogenic agents (medicines that prevent the growth of new blood 
vessels), including ramucirumab, particularly when used in combination 
regimens with chemotherapy.  In clinical trials, ATEs occurred more often 
in patients receiving ramucirumab either as a single agent or in 
combination with chemotherapy compared to control patients who were 
not treated with ramucirumab.  In Phase 3 clinical trials, serious ATEs 
reported in patients receiving ramucirumab included heart attack, cardiac 
arrest (sudden stopping of the heart), stroke or reduced blood flow to the 
brain.  ATEs have most typically occurred in patients with underlying 
heart disease or associated risk factors. 
Risk factors for ATEs in patients who receive ramucirumab are similar to 
patients who don’t receive ramucirumab.  Elderly patients, smokers, and 
patients with cancer and/or with cardiovascular risk factors including 
diabetes, abdominal obesity and high cholesterol are at increased risk of 
experiencing ATEs.  Risk factors for developing clots in blood vessels 
among cancer patients include smoking, poor blood flow inside the blood 
vessels (for example, after surgery or immobility), activation of clotting 
factors in the blood, and cancer treatments such as chemotherapy, 
hormonal therapy, antiangiogenic agents, and medicines that stimulate the 
body to produce red blood cells.  In patients with liver cirrhosis, alcohol-
related cirrhosis and older age are independent risk factors for developing 
blockage in the heart arteries. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Sections 4.2, 4.4, and 4.8 
PL Sections 2, 3, and 4  
SmPC Section 4.2 and 4.4 advise: 
•  Permanent discontinuation of ramucirumab in the event of severe 
ATEs. 
PL Sections 2 and 4 advise patients: 
•  To tell their healthcare professional immediately if they 
experience any symptoms or signs of blockage of the artery by a 
blood clot either during treatment with ramucirumab or anytime 
thereafter, including symptoms of a heart attack or stroke. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important identified risk:  Gastrointestinal perforation (a hole in the wall of the gut) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Gastrointestinal (GI) perforation has been associated with some 
antiangiogenic agents (medicines that prevent the formation of new blood 
vessels), including ramucirumab.  In clinical trials and in all the conditions 
that ramucirumab can be prescribed for, GI perforation occurred more 
often in patients receiving ramucirumab as a single agent and in 
combination with chemotherapy compared to control patient not treated 
with ramucirumab.  GI perforation usually, but not always, occurs in 
patients with tumours located in the abdomen or tumours that involve the 
lining of the abdomen.  GI perforation has been observed to be associated 
with ramucirumab treatment in clinical studies and in the general 
population of people receiving ramucirumab from their doctors. 
Patients at increased risk include those with tumours located in the 
abdomen or with tumours that involve the lining of the abdomen, patients 
with inflammation in the abdomen, patients who have had cancer 
treatments known to cause GI perforation before or at the same time as 
receiving ramucirumab, and patient taking medicines like aspirin, non-
steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and steroids at the same time as 
ramucirumab.  Patients with inflammatory bowel disease, diverticulitis, 
ischaemic bowel, peptic ulcers, obstruction and iatrogenic bowel injuries 
resulting from procedures such as endoscopy, colonoscopy, laparoscopy, 
and surgery in addition to prior radiation therapy are at higher risk of 
having GI perforation occur. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Sections 4.2, 4.4, and 4.8 
PL Sections 2, 3, and 4 
SmPC Sections 4.2 and 4.4 advise that: 
•  Ramucirumab therapy should be permanently stopped in the 
event of gastrointestinal perforation. 
PL Sections 2 and 4 advise patients: 
•  To tell their health care professional immediately if they develop 
any symptoms of a hole in the wall of their gut (‘gastrointestinal 
perforation’) including abdominal pain, vomiting, fever or chills 
during treatment with ramucirumab or anytime thereafter. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Important identified risk:  Serious haemorrhagic events (bleeding events) 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Bleeding/haemorrhage is associated with the use of some antiangiogenic agents 
(medicines that prevent the formation of new blood vessels), including ramucirumab.  
In clinical trials across all indications, bleeding/haemorrhagic events occurred more 
often in patients receiving ramucirumab in combination with chemotherapy compared 
to those who received chemotherapy alone.  Severe gastrointestinal haemorrhage, 
bleeding from swollen veins in the oesophagus (oesophageal varices), lung and 
nervous system haemorrhages (for example, brain haemorrhages), including fatal 
events, have been reported in patients with advanced cancer treated with 
ramucirumab.  Haemorrhagic events have been observed to be associated with 
ramucirumab treatment in clinical studies and/or in the general population of people 
receiving ramucirumab from their doctors.  
Patients at higher risk of bleeding events include those with a bleeding tendency, such 
as patients who develop blood clotting problems due to another disease, prior history 
of bleeding (including variceal bleeding), liver insufficiency/failure, or any condition 
that carries a high risk of bleeding (for example, a tumour involving major blood 
vessels or fragile blood vessels in the oesophagus).  Also, patients who are taking 
blood thinners or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs have a greater tendency to 
bleed.  Severe gastrointestinal bleeding usually, but not always, occurs in patients 
with tumours located in the abdomen or that involve the lining of the abdomen. 
In lung cancer, patients with a previous history of bleeding from the lung, or who 
have tumours in the more central parts of the lung, squamous-type of lung cancer, 
tumour cavitation (hollow tumours), or those with tumours that have spread to, 
invaded or encased the large blood vessels of the heart/lung are at increased risk of 
lung bleeding.  Patients with brain metastases may be at higher risk of bleeding in the 
brain; however, no clear evidence has been shown for an increased risk of intracranial 
bleeding in cancer patients with brain metastases treated with antiangiogenic agents 
(medicines that prevent the growth of new blood vessels), including ramucirumab.  In 
patients with liver cirrhosis and oesophageal varices, the size of varices and the 
degree of decreased liver function are associated with a greater risk of bleeding from 
oesophageal varices. 
 
 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, and 4.8 
PL Sections 2, 3, and 4 
SmPC Sections 4.2 and 4.4 advise that: 
•  Ramucirumab should be permanently stopped in the event of severe 
bleeding. 
SmPC Section 4.3 states that: 
•  For patients with NSCLC, ramucirumab is contraindicated where there is 
tumour cavitation or tumour involvement of major vessels. 
SmPC Section 4.4 advises that: 
•  Blood counts and blood clotting tests should be monitored in patients with 
conditions that make them more at risk of bleeding, and in those being 
treated with blood thinners or other medicines that increase the risk of 
bleeding. 
•  For HCC patients with evidence of portal hypertension or prior history of 
oesophageal variceal bleeding, screening for and treatment of oesophageal 
varices should be performed as per standard of care before starting 
ramucirumab treatment.  
PL Section 2 advises patients before they receive ramucirumab: 
•  To talk to their doctor or nurse if they have any condition that increases the 
risk of bleeding.  
•  To tell their doctor if they are taking any medicines that may increase the 
risk of bleeding or that affect blood clotting ability. 
•  To talk to their doctor or nurse if they have lung cancer and have had recent 
bleeding in the lung (coughing up bright red blood) or are regularly taking 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicines, or medicines that affect blood 
clotting ability. 
•  To talk to their doctor or nurse if they have liver cancer and have had 
previous bleeding from enlarged veins in the food pipe (oesophagus) or have 
high blood pressure in the portal vein, which carries the blood from the 
bowel and spleen to the liver. 
PL Sections 2 and 4 advise patients: 
•  To tell their health care professional immediately if they experience 
symptoms of severe bleeding or severe bleeding in the gut, including 
extreme tiredness, weakness, dizziness or changes in the colour of stools, 
either during treatment with ramucirumab or any time thereafter. 
PL Section 4 advises patients: 
•  To tell their doctor if they experience bleeding in their lungs. 
 
 
 
 
 
Important identified risk:  Liver failure/liver injury (including hepatic encephalopathy in patients with HCC) 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Lilly considers liver failure/liver injury to be an important potential risk for 
ramucirumab.  Lilly does not consider hepatic encephalopathy in patients with liver 
cancer (hepatocellular carcinoma [HCC]) to be an important identified risk, since there 
is insufficient evidence to support a causal relationship between ramucirumab and 
hepatic failure with secondary hepatic encephalopathy.  However, liver failure/liver 
injury (including hepatic encephalopathy in patients with HCC) is considered as an 
important identified risk by the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee 
(PRAC), the European Medicines Agency (EMA) committee that is responsible for 
assessing and monitoring the safety of human medicines. 
Across all Phase 3 trials (except in liver cancer), the incidence of clinical liver events 
was low in ramucirumab arm and similar to the control arm.  Most of the liver events 
observed in the NSCLC study when ramucirumab was used in combination with 
erlotinib were due to abnormalities in liver blood tests (increased liver enzymes) of low 
severity only without any evidence of liver failure, and there were no events of hepatic 
encephalopathy.  A higher incidence of increased liver enzymes in ramucirumab-treated 
patients compared to control patients has not been observed across other Phase 3 clinical 
trials in other indications.  Therefore, based on the review of safety data from completed 
non-liver cancer Phase 3 trials and lack of data from medical literature showing that 
medicines in the same family as ramucirumab are associated with developing liver 
failure, Lilly considered there is insufficient evidence to prove that ramucirumab causes 
liver failure. 
Patients with liver cancer and underlying chronic liver disease are expected to have a 
higher rate of liver failure/injury events as part of the natural history of their disease, no 
matter what type of anti-cancer treatment they may receive.  Liver injury events of 
ascites (accumulation of fluid in the belly) and hepatic encephalopathy (build-up of 
toxins in the brain) have been reported at a higher rate in the ramucirumab arm in the 
combined patient population from 2 liver cancer studies REACH-2 and REACH.  In 
REACH-2, the incidence of all events and severe clinical liver events (including fatal 
events) was higher in patients who received ramucirumab.  Hepatic encephalopathy 
events (including hepatic coma) were reported only in the patients who received 
ramucirumab in the REACH-2 study.   
Due to the higher number of hepatic encephalopathy events in ramucirumab-treated 
patients versus placebo patients in liver cancer trials, hepatic encephalopathy is 
considered an adverse drug reaction (ADR) for ramucirumab given as a single therapy 
for the treatment of liver cancer and not in any other indications.  However, based on a 
review of cases of hepatic encephalopathy from the combined patient population in 
HCC studies (REACH-2 and REACH), Lilly considers that there is insufficient 
evidence to show that use of ramucirumab causes liver failure and subsequent hepatic 
encephalopathy.  This is because a worsening of liver function tests, which would be 
expected to occur in liver failure with hepatic encephalopathy, was not consistently 
observed in all cases. 
Across Phase 3 clinical trials in non-HCC indications, only 1 case of hepatic 
encephalopathy was reported in ramucirumab-treated patients, and therefore hepatic 
encephalopathy is not considered an ADR or a risk in non-HCC indications. 
 
 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk factors for the development of liver failure/liver injury in patients receiving 
ramucirumab include a history of severe liver injury, liver cancer including liver cancer 
that has spread to the lymph nodes, and liver cirrhosis.  Risk factors also include acute 
viral hepatitis A, B, or C; use of a drug that is toxic to the liver or exposure to liver 
toxins at the same time as receiving ramucirumab; autoimmune or alcoholic hepatitis; 
biliary tract disease; and circulatory problems of low blood pressure or right heart 
congestive failure that may cause low blood flow and lack of oxygen to the liver.  
Erlotinib and other drugs in the same class known as epidermal growth factor receptor 
tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR TKIs) are known to be associated with liver toxicity, 
most commonly abnormal liver blood tests such as increases in transaminase (liver 
enzyme) levels.  Patients with advanced cancer frequently already have liver problems 
before receiving ramucirumab, such as having tumour that has spread to the liver, 
cirrhosis, hepatitis C, a primary diagnosis of liver cancer or liver problems that are not 
related to alcohol use.  
Hepatic encephalopathy is a neuropsychiatric complication of both acute (sudden) liver 
disease and acute worsening of chronic (long-term) liver disease which affects the brain.  
Patients who have cirrhosis of the liver are at risk of developing hepatic encephalopathy.  
Evidence from an HCC study (REACH) suggests that a greater severity of the 
underlying chronic liver disease (severity based on Child-Pugh classification or score at 
start of treatment) was associated with a higher risk of developing hepatic 
encephalopathy.  Hepatic encephalopathy is not uncommonly seen in patients with HCC 
at the time their liver cancer is diagnosed, and the rate of occurrence increases with 
disease severity. 
Risk factors for developing hepatic encephalopathy in cirrhosis include infections, 
bleeding in the gut, constipation, changes in the levels of chemicals in the blood 
(sodium and potassium), drugs (sedatives, water tablets), low blood sugar levels, low 
blood oxygen levels, and changes in the liver circulation (such as portal hypertension).  
In patients with cirrhosis, a previous history of hepatic encephalopathy is a risk factor 
for having further episodes of hepatic encephalopathy. 
 
 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.8, and 5.2 
PL Sections 2, 3, and 4 
SmPC Section 4.2: 
•  Provides advice to check blood chemistry prior to each paclitaxel infusion, and 
includes liver function test criteria to be met prior to each paclitaxel 
administration. 
•  Ramucirumab should be permanently discontinued in the event of hepatic 
encephalopathy or hepatorenal syndrome. 
SmPC Section 4.4 advises that: 
•  Ramucirumab should be used with caution in patients with severe liver 
cirrhosis (Child-Pugh B or C), cirrhosis with hepatic encephalopathy, clinically 
significant ascites due to cirrhosis, or hepatorenal syndrome.  Ramucirumab 
should only be used in these patients if the potential benefits of treatment are 
judged to outweigh the potential risk of progressive hepatic failure. 
•  Patients should be monitored for clinical signs and symptoms of hepatic 
encephalopathy. 
•  Ramucirumab should be permanently discontinued in the event of hepatic 
encephalopathy or hepatorenal syndrome. 
PL Section 2 advises patients: 
•  To talk to their doctor or nurse prior to being given ramucirumab if they have 
severe liver disease (‘cirrhosis’) and associated conditions, such as excessive 
accumulation of fluid in the abdomen (‘ascites’). 
PL Section 4 advises patients with chronic liver problems: 
•  To tell their doctor if they experience common side effects of confusion and/or 
disorientation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk:  Serious infection secondary to neutropenia (serious infection due to low white blood 
cell count) 
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Neutropenia (low white blood cell count which help fight infection) makes a patient more 
susceptible to developing serious infection, which is a known and major cause of sickness 
and death in neutropenic patients.  
Phase 3 studies showed a higher incidence of febrile neutropenia (fever accompanied by 
neutropenia) in patients who received ramucirumab together with chemotherapy compared to 
patients who received chemotherapy alone, although the difference frequency in 3 studies 
was very small.  The incidence of infections due to neutropenia in patients who received 
ramucirumab compared to those who didn’t was similar in 2 of the 3 studies.  In the 3rd 
study (REVEL), patients who received ramucirumab had a higher rate of infection due to 
neutropenia.  In a study using ramucirumab in combination with erlotinib (RELAY study), 
neutropenia occurred in a similar proportion of ramucirumab-treated patients and control 
patients, and the incidence of infection due to neutropenia was low and infections were not 
associated with neutropenia.  Since ramucirumab has been marketed, the reporting of serious 
infections due to neutropenia is low and the majority of cases occur in patients taking 
ramucirumab in combination with chemotherapy that suppressed the bone marrow.   
There is not enough evidence to definitively say that ramucirumab given by itself causes 
serious infection due to neutropenia.  Therefore, serious infections due to neutropenia are 
considered to be an important potential risk for ramucirumab. 
Neutropenia places patients at a higher risk of life-threatening complications, including 
infections, and remains a prevalent problem associated with substantial sickness and death.  
Identified risk factors for neutropenia can be categorised as patient-specific (for example, 
patient age, other medical conditions, and level of ability to complete daily activities) or 
regimen-specific (chemotherapy that suppresses the bone marrow is one of the primary risk 
factors). 
The duration of neutropenia and how severe it is are two factors that impact the risk of 
developing subsequent serious infection complications.  Several other factors appear to affect 
the risk of neutropenic complications or infections in patients with cancer, such as advanced 
age, other medical conditions, exposure to additional germs due to being hospitalised or 
receiving cancer treatment.  Prior treatment with cytotoxic chemotherapy regimens, such as 
anthracycline-based chemotherapy, may increase the risk of severe neutropenia or febrile 
neutropenia (fever associated with neutropenia). 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Sections 4.2, 4.8, and 5.2 
PL Sections 2 and 4 
SmPC Section 4.2 includes: 
  Advice to check complete blood count prior to each paclitaxel infusion, and provides white 
blood cell count criteria to be met before giving paclitaxel each time. 
  Paclitaxel dose reduction guidance for severe blood/bone marrow toxicity. 
  FOLFIRI dose reduction guidance for moderate to severe low white blood count and fever 
accompanied by low white blood cell count.  
  Docetaxel dose adjustments for low white blood count and fever accompanied by low white 
blood cell count.  
PL Section 2 advises patients: 
Risk factors and 
risk groups 
Risk 
minimisation 
measures 
 
 
 
 
  To tell their doctor or nurse immediately if they experience fever and infection or symptoms 
of infection such as sweating, headache, pain in the limbs, or decreased appetite either during 
treatment with ramucirumab or any time thereafter. 
PL Section 4 advises patients: 
  To tell their doctor if they experience low white blood cell counts (may increase the risk of 
infection), fever accompanied by low white blood cell counts, infections, or serious infection 
(sepsis). 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk:  Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES; neurological syndrome 
including symptoms of headache, confusion, seizures and loss of vision) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
PRES has been reported very rarely in patients who received ramucirumab 
in completed Phase 3 clinical trials.  A small number of cases of PRES 
have also been reported since ramucirumab has been marketed, and not all 
cases contained radiological confirmation of the diagnosis.  Based on the 
clinical trial data and data collected since ramucirumab has been marketed, 
there is no clear evidence to indicate that ramucirumab causes PRES.  
However, PRES is considered to be an important potential risk because it 
is a serious condition and is known to be caused by other medicines in the 
same family as ramucirumab. 
Known risk factors for PRES in ramucirumab-treated patients include 
infection / sepsis / septic shock, pre-eclampsia/eclampsia, autoimmune 
diseases, chronic kidney failure, and chronic high blood pressure.  Patients 
who receive other chemotherapy drugs agents that are associated with 
PRES, such as bevacizumab, platinums or antimetabolites, could be at 
increased risk of developing PRES. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
None  
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk:  Severe clinical outcomes of venous thromboembolic events (blood clots forming in 
the veins) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
In completed Phase 3 randomised trials of ramucirumab, severe venous 
thromboembolic events (VTEs) occurred about as often in patients who 
received ramucirumab as patients who did not.  Therefore, clinical trial 
evidence does not support a causal relationship between ramucirumab as a 
single agent or in combination with chemotherapeutic agents and the 
development of VTEs.  VTE is therefore not considered an ADR for 
ramucirumab.  Since ramucirumab has been marketed, the rate of serious 
VTEs events has been low.  However, VTEs can result in significant 
human health problems and fatal events have been reported.  
VTEs are associated with cancer itself, although the risk depends on the 
type of cancer, stage of cancer, and the ability to find a clot in the veins 
with an imaging machine.  VTEs have been associated with some 
antiangiogenic agents (medicines that prevent the formation of new blood 
vessels), although the incidence varies depending on the type of therapy, 
the use of other chemotherapy agents at the same time, and the specific 
type of cancer.  
Risk factors for VTEs in patients who receive ramucirumab are the same 
as known risk factors for developing VTEs in all individuals and include 
advanced age, surgery, hospitalisation, immobility, post-operative status, 
trauma, pregnancy, oral birth control use and hormone use for menopause, 
cancer, obesity, and inherited and acquired blood clotting diseases.  
Cytotoxic chemotherapy given at the same time as ramucirumab is 
considered to be an additional risk factor.  Patients with cirrhosis are at an 
increased risk of VTEs compared with the general population.  Patients 
with both cirrhosis and primary liver cancer have a greater risk of 
thrombosis in the portal vein (vein that brings blood from the 
stomach/intestines to the liver), with approximately 3.5-times higher risk 
than in cancer-free cirrhosis patients.  
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
None  
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk:  Reproductive and developmental toxicity (side effects on pregnancy and risks to the 
unborn baby) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
In animal models, VEGF receptor interaction and angiogenesis (the ability 
of the body to form new blood vessels) are considered essential for female 
reproduction, normal embryo-foetal development in the womb, and post-
natal development.  Therefore, since ramucirumab blocks angiogenesis, 
ramucirumab treatment may adversely affect female fertility (ovulation) 
and is highly likely to cause negative effects on the placenta and the 
development of the foetus during pregnancy.  Therefore, reproductive and 
developmental toxicity is considered to be an important potential risk for 
ramucirumab.  No human data are available. 
Women who have not gone through menopause are at risk of developing 
reproductive toxicity.  Ramucirumab may result in negative effects during 
pregnancy and after a baby has been born. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Sections 4.6 and 5.3 
PL Section 2 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
SmPC Section 4.6 states that: 
•  Women should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant while on 
ramucirumab. 
•  Women of child-bearing potential should use effective birth 
control during and up to 3 months after the last dose of 
ramucirumab treatment. 
•  Ramucirumab is not recommended during pregnancy and in 
women of child-bearing potential not using birth control.  
Ramucirumab should only be used if the potential benefit to the 
mother justifies the potential risk during pregnancy.  
•  Breast-feeding should be discontinued during treatment with 
ramucirumab and for at least 3 months after the last dose. 
PL Section 2 advises patients: 
•  To tell their doctor if they are pregnant or breast-feeding, suspect 
they may be pregnant, or are planning to become pregnant before 
starting treatment. 
•  To avoid getting pregnant while receiving this medicine and for 
• 
at least 3 months after the last dose. 
If planning to have a baby, to talk to their doctor about the best 
birth control method for them. 
•  That ramucirumab should not be used during pregnancy. 
•  That breast-feeding should be avoided during treatment and for at 
least 3 months after the last dose.  
II.C. 
II.C.1. 
Post-authorisation development plan 
Studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
Not applicable. 
 
 
 
 
 
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.2. 
Study short name:  Study I4T-MC-JVDD:  Safety and Effectiveness of Ramucirumab in 
Patients with Advanced Gastric Cancer in the European Union and North America:  A 
Prospective Observational Registry  
Purpose of the study:  To describe the safety profile of ramucirumab administered as 
monotherapy or in combination therapy for second-line treatment of adult patients with advanced 
gastric cancer under real-world disease conditions in the EU and North America, and to describe 
the effectiveness of ramucirumab administered as monotherapy or in combination therapy for 
second-line treatment of adult patients with advanced gastric cancer under real-world disease 
conditions in the EU and North America. 
 
 
 
