Summary of Risk Management Plan (RMP) for Cystadane (betaine anhydrous) 
This is a summary of the RMP for Cystadane. The RMP details important risks of Cystadane, 
how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about 
Cystadane’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Cystadane’s Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its Package Leaflet (PL) give 
essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  Cystadane  should  be 
used.  
This summary of the RMP for Cystadane should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part  of  the  European  Public  Assessment  Report.  Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the 
current ones will be included in updates of Cystadane’s RMP. 
I. 
The Medicine and What it is Used For 
Cystadane is authorised for adjunctive treatment of homocystinuria, involving deficiencies or 
defects 
or 
5,10-methylene-tetrahydrofolate  reductase  (see  SmPC  for  the  full  indication).  It contains 
betaine anhydrous as the active substance and it is administered orally. 
cofactor  metabolism 
beta-synthase, 
cystathionine 
cobalamin 
in 
Further information about the evaluation of Cystadane’s benefits can be found in the Cystadane 
European Public Assessment Report, including in its plain-language summary, available on the 
European  Medicines 
medicine’s webpage: 
the 
website, 
Agency 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/cystadane. 
under 
II.  Risks  Associated  with  the  Medicine  and  Activities  to  Minimise  or  Further 
Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of Cystadane, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Cystadane’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL 
and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals. 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging. 
• 
•  The authorised pack size – the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly. 
•  The medicine’s legal status – the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
Information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and regularly analysed, including 
PSUR  assessment  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A. List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Cystadane are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Cystadane. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
No  important  risks  or  missing  information  are  included  in  the  list  of  safety  concerns  for 
Cystadane. 
Cerebral oedema was previously considered as an important identified risk for Cystadane. The 
risk  of  cerebral  (brain)  oedema  has  been  included  in  the  Product  Information  since  the 
European  launch  date  (15 February 2007).  The  frequency  for  the  occurrence  of  cerebral 
oedema is considered to be uncommon with Cystadane. It is considered to be a known risk that 
requires  no  further  characterisation  and  can  be  followed  up  via  routine  pharmacovigilance 
namely signal detection and adverse reaction reporting, and for which the risk minimisation 
messages in the product information are adhered to by prescribers. Therefore, cerebral oedema 
was removed from the list of safety concerns for Cystadane.  
Interstitial lung disease was previously considered as an important potential risk for Cystadane. 
However, due to a lack of case reports that indicate a causal role of Cystadane, and considering 
that idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is by definition not drug-induced interstitial lung disease, 
this risk was removed from the list of safety concerns for Cystadane. 
In  addition,  use  in  pregnancy  and  lactation  was  considered  as  missing  information  for 
Cystadane. Data on a limited number of exposed pregnancies has not provided any significant 
safety  data  for  the  use  of  Cystadane  during  pregnancy  or  pertaining  to  the  health  of  the 
foetus/newborn  child.  To  date,  no  relevant  epidemiologic  data  are  available  that  indicate 
potential  harm  following  the  use  of  Cystadane  in  this  patient  population.  Overall,  it  is 
considered that to date, there is no evidence to suggest that the product’s safety profile would 
be expected to be different in this patient population; therefore, use in pregnancy and lactation 
was also removed from the list of safety concerns for the product. Section 4.6 of the SmPC for 
Cystadane  sufficiently  advises  that  during  pregnancy,  administering  betaine  anhydrous  in 
addition  to  pyridoxine,  folate,  anticoagulant  and  diet  under  close  monitoring  of  plasma 
homocysteine  would  be  compatible  with  good  maternal  and  foetal  outcomes;  however, 
Cystadane should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary. It is also noted that 
because  of  lack  of  data,  caution  should  be  exercised  when  prescribing  Cystadane  to 
breast-feeding women.  
II.B. Summary of Important Risks 
The safety information in the Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal product. 
II.C. Post-authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1. Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or a specific obligation 
of Cystadane. 
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Cystadane.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
