EMA/CHMP/371429/2015  
EMEA/H/C/000125 
EPAR summary for the public 
Cystagon 
mercaptamine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Cystagon. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Cystagon. 
What is Cystagon? 
Cystagon is a medicine containing the active substance mercaptamine (also known as cysteamine). It 
is available as capsules (50 and 150 mg). 
What is Cystagon used for? 
Cystagon is used in patients who have nephropathic (kidney) cystinosis. Cystinosis is a rare inherited 
disease in which excess amounts of cystine, an amino acid naturally found in the body, build up within 
cells, especially in the kidneys and the eyes, damaging them. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Cystagon used? 
Cystagon treatment should be started by a doctor who has experience in the treatment of cystinosis. 
Cystine levels in white blood cells should be monitored and used to adjust the dose. 
For children up to the age of 12 years, the recommended daily dose is calculated according to body 
surface area (which is calculated from the patient’s height and weight), as 1.30 g per m2 divided into 4 
doses. For patients over the age of 12 and over 50 kg in weight, the recommended daily dose is 2 g 
divided into 4 doses. Starting doses should be one quarter to one sixth of the final expected doses. The 
starting dose should be increased gradually over 4 to 6 weeks. The maximum dose should never 
exceed 1.95 g per m2 per day. For further information, see the package leaflet. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Cystagon work? 
The active substance in Cystagon, mercaptamine, reacts with cystine to form another amino acid, 
called cysteine, and a compound called a cysteine-cysteamine salt. The body is able to remove this salt 
from the cells. The amount of cystine in the organs is therefore reduced, and this limits the damage to 
these organs. 
How has Cystagon been studied? 
Cystagon has been investigated in three main studies including 234 patients over a 12-year period. 
These studies included children and newly recruited patients in whom two different doses were tested. 
Because the disease is very serious, it was not possible for ethical reasons to compare Cystagon 
directly to placebo (a dummy treatment). The comparison was done instead with a group of patients 
who had been treated with a dummy treatment as part of another, unrelated trial. The studies looked 
at the kidney function, the survival and the growth rate of the patients. 
What benefit has Cystagon shown during the studies? 
The three studies showed that Cystagon delays kidney problems and the need for dialysis or renal 
transplantation, when treatment is started at an early age. It also improves survival and growth rate in 
the children treated. 
What is the risk associated with Cystagon? 
The most common side effects with Cystagon (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are loss of appetite, 
vomiting, nausea (feeling sick), diarrhoea, lethargy (lack of energy) and pyrexia (fever). For the full 
list of all side effects reported with Cystagon, see the package leaflet. 
Cystagon must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to cysteamine or any of the 
other ingredients, or to another medicine called penicillamine. It should also not be used in women 
who are breastfeeding, or who are pregnant (particularly during the first three months) unless it is 
clearly necessary. 
Why has Cystagon been approved? 
Cystinosis is a rare, fatal disease, and Cystagon is considered a useful medicine for this disease. The 
CHMP decided that Cystagon’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Cystagon 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Cystagon on 23 June 1997.  
The full EPAR for Cystagon can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Cystagon, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2013. 
Cystagon  
EMA/CHMP/371429/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
