SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Homocystinuria  is  a  serious  life-long  disease  and  is  associated  with  a  high  morbidity  and mortality. 
Treatment aims to reduce homocysteine accumulation and to restore the transmethylation capacity by 
normalising the concentrations of S-adenosylmethionine (SAH) and S-adenosylhomocysteine (SAM). 
Homocystinuria is an inherited disorder of the metabolism of the amino acid methionine leading to 
accumulation of homocysteine in the blood and urine. This is due to a dysfunction in one of the 
metabolic pathways responsible for transulfuration and remethylation of homocysteine.  It is 
considered the second most common inborn error of amino acid metabolism after phenylketonuria.  
The  major  clinical  manifestations  include  mental  retardation,  dislocation  of  the  optic  lentis  (ectopia 
lentis), skeletal abnormalities and a tendency to thromboembolic episodes. The estimated incidence of 
homocystinuria due to Cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) deficiency is 1 in 335 000 births worldwide, 
with marked regional variations.  
The  aim  of  the  treatment  of  homocystinuria  is  to  normalize  homosysteine  levels  by  several  ways  in 
varying  combinations  such  as:  boosting  residual  enzyme  activity  with  vitamin  B6,  vitamin  B12  and 
folates, reducing load on the metabolic pathway affected with low-methionine diet (CBS deficiency), 
supplementation with the deficient products downstream of the enzyme abnormality (cysteine for CBS 
deficiency and methionine for impaired remethylation), using the alternative pathway to eliminate the 
toxic  substrate  i.e.  pharmacologic  treatment  with  betaine  which  remethylates  homocysteine  to 
methionine. 
Betaine hydrochloride is a drug product available over-the-counter used to acidify the gastric juice in 
patients  with  maldigestion  due  to  achlorhydria.  Betaine  dihydrogencitrate  is  available  as  a  drug 
product in Germany (Flacar®, Fa. Schwabe) and recommended for fatty liver and other liver diseases 
in amounts of 2-4 grams per day.   
Betaine anhydrous (Cystadane) is given to patients with homocystinuria in Europe on a compassionate 
use  basis.  Betaine  anhydrous  has  been  obtained  from  chemical  companies  to  treat  patients  with 
homocystinuria for many years. 
These forms of betaine dissolve easily and completely at physiologic pH in the gastrointestinal tract. 
Due  to  its  molecular  structure  and  rapid  absorption  kinetics  it  is  generally  accepted  that  the 
bioavailability  of  oral  betaine  is  high,  although  this  has  never  been  formally  evaluated.  The 
bioavailability of all betaine salts should theoretically be similar although this has also not  
been formally tested. 
Currently  there  is  no  treatment  to  correct  the  basic  genetic  causes  of homocystinuria.  Consequently, 
therapy is directed at correcting the biochemical abnormalities of these disorders. 
Betaine anhydrous was granted orphan medicinal product status for treatment of the orphan condition 
homocystinuria in July 2001. 
Betaine (trimethyl glycine) acts by remethylation of homocysteine to methionine, and thereby reduces 
levels  of  homocysteine.  Betaine  is  found  naturally  in  many  foods,  including  sugar  beets,  however 
levels  founds  are  insufficient  to  achieve  reduction  in  homocysteine  levels  in  patients  suffering  from 
the condition. Patients are usually treated with a dose of 3g twice a day of betaine. 
Cystadane  (betaine)  is  formulated  as  an  oral  powder  allowing  for  weight-adapted  dosage  in  the 
important patient group of children.  
The  Applicant  has  submitted  a  complete  mixed  application  (containing  own  data  from  the  company 
and bibliographic data) through the Centralised procedure.  
1/16 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cystadane is indicated for the treatment of homocystinuria, involving deficiencies or defects in: 
•  Cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS), 
•  5, 10-methyleneterahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR), 
•  Cobalamin cofactor metabolism (cbl). 
2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Betaine is a well known, naturally occurring drug substance that can be isolated from sugar beets.  
The drug product is an oral powder consisting of 1 g of betaine (betaine free base) without any 
excipients.  
It is packaged in 300 ml High-Density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle with polypropylene (PP) child 
resistant caps and three polystyrene spoons as measuring devices for the administration of the product.  
It is proposed as an orphan drug for the treatment of homocystinuria. 
Active Substance 
Betaine anhydrous is not described in the European Pharmacopoeia and scientific data have been 
submitted in the form of The Active Substance Master File (ASMF). The active substance is in the 
anhydrous form and the structural formula is provided below: 
CH3
CH3
N+
CH3
CH2 COO-
Betaine  anhydrous  exists  either  as  white  crystals  or  a  crystalline  powder  with  a  weak  characteristic 
odour.  It  is  freely  soluble  in  water.  It  has  melting  point  range  of  301-305°C  and  a  bulk  density  of 
0.71g/l. The pH of a 1% aqueous solution was found to be 5.0 - 8.0. It is hygroscopic. 
Manufacture 
Description of Manufacturing Process and Process Controls 
Betaine  technical  grade  is  extracted  from  sugar  beet  molasses  as  a  result  of  a  purification 
process.  
Betaine  occurs  with  an  average  abundance  of  0.2  %  -  0.3  %  in  the  common  variety  of  sugar 
beets  (beta  vulgaris  L)  and  is  a  natural  key-intermediate  of  the  amino  acid  and  methyl-
metabolism in all vertebrates. 
Efforts of the sugar industry to increase sugar yields have led to the development of chromato-
graphic processes for large scale desugarization of molasses. Ion exclusion is used to separate 
sugar and non-sugar fractions of molasses.  
The manufacturing process can be summarised as follow: 
1: Pre-process 
Raw  material  –  dilution  –  filtration  –  twice  [ion  exclusion  chromatography  –  concentration  by 
evaporation of the Betaine fraction] – separation by centrifugation – drying to Betaine technical grade. 
2/16 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
2: Betaine process 
Starting  material  -  dissolution  with  distilled  water  -  activated  carbon  treatment  –  filtration, 
microfiltration  -  crystallisation  by  evaporation  –  separation  by  centrifugation  –  vacuum  drying  – 
sieving – packaging – weighing. 
Sections related to control of materials, control of critical steps and intermediates, process validation 
and manufacturing process development are suitably detailed in the closed part of the ASMF. 
The structure has been satisfactorily elucidated by elemental analysis and spectral analyses i.e. 
X-ray  powder  diffraction,  UV,  IR,  and  1H-  NMR  spectroscopic  analysis.  The  solid  state  is 
characterised  by  refractive  index,  thermal  analysis,  thermogravic  analysis,  and  microscopic 
appearance. 
Potential  impurities  arising  from  the  manufacturing  process  are  amino  acids  and  sugars.  They  are 
quantitatively  removed  during  the  purification  process.  Their  presence  is  controlled  by  adequate 
analytical methods. 
Appropriate data and discussion regarding potential degradation products have been included. 
Residual  solvents  testing  was  not  deemed  necessary  since  only  water  was  used  during  the 
manufacturing process of betaine. 
•  Specification 
Since  betaine  anhydrous  is  not  described  in  any  pharmacopoeia,  an  internal  monograph  has  been 
developed  by  the  ASMF  holder  as  well  as  by  the  applicant,  Orphan  Europe.  Both  specifications  are 
detailed. They differ slightly but are both acceptable. 
Appropriate specification for betaine includes parameters such as appearance, identification, pH, loss 
on  drying,  assay,  related  substances,  particle  size,  bulk  volume,  microbiological  quality.  Analytical 
methods are in accordance with Ph.Eur. 
Impurity  limits  have  been  adequately  justified  by  batch  analysis,  stability  studies,  toxicological  and 
clinical studies. 
Analytical  methods  to  control  the  active  substance  such  as  test  on  foreign  matter,  assay  and  related 
sugar  impurities  (HPLC)  and  other  amino  acids  (AAA),  identification  (IR),  limit  tests  for  chloride, 
sulphate, iron and heavy metals, pH, loss on drying, sulphated ash and total viable aerobic count have 
been suitably described and validated by both the applicant and the ASMF holder in accordance with 
ICH guidelines. 
Data are provided for 3 batches of active betaine anhydrous tested by the ASMF holder and 3 batches 
tested  by  the  applicant.  Results  are  in  line  with  the  respective  specification  and  confirm  the 
consistency and uniformity of the process. 
Stability 
Stability Summary and Conclusions 
Stability studies were carried out by the ASMF holder on 3 batches kept in the commercial container 
at  room  temperature  (not  ICH  conditions,  but  temperature  and  humidity  were  continuously 
monitored).  Criteria  tested  included:  appearance,  odour,  loss  on  drying,  assay,  pH,  transmittance, 
related substances, total viable aerobic count and yeasts and moulds.  
Results were provided up to 6 years, the active substance remained very stable except few out-of -spec 
results  found  after  3  years  for  loss  on  drying.  The  ASMF  holder  has  committed  to  conduct  post-
approval stability studies under ICH conditions. 
3/16 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability  studies  were  performed  by  the  applicant  on  3  production-scale  batches  kept  in  a  smaller 
version of the commercial container under ICH conditions (up to 24 months at 25 °C / 60% RH and 6 
months  at  40  °C  /  75%  RH).  Criteria  tested  included:  description,  identification,  appearance  of 
constituted  solution,  pH,  loss  on  drying,  saccharide  &  amino  acid  impurities,  assay,  and  microbial 
limits. All results remained within the specification after long-term and accelerated storage except 2 
results (loss on drying test) adequately justified. No saccharide or amino acid impurities were detected, 
and microbial results were within set specifications. 
Results  showed  that  forced  degradation  studies  (oxidation,  acid  and  alkali  hydrolysis,  elevated 
temperature and light) did not adversely affect the active substance. 
Based  on  the  presented  data,  the  proposed  retest  period  of  2  years  by  the  applicant  is  considered 
satisfactory.  However,  the  ASMF  holder  has  committed  to  conduct  post-approval  stability  studies 
under ICH conditions. 
Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Betaine in the anhydrous form is a white crystalline powder. Dissolution studies were omitted since it 
is freely soluble in water.  
It exists as anhydrous, monohydrate and hydrochloride forms. The applicant has justified its choice of 
the anhydrous form; the hydrochloride was discounted on organoleptic reasoning, and the 
monohydrate was not chosen due to poor flow properties of the compound. 
The applicant has discussed in detail the implications of formation of the monohydrate form, and the 
effect of humidity and high temperature on the product. Humidity conditions above 50% were found 
to have a negative impact on the powder with moisture absorbance and deliquescence observed. 
Consequently filling conditions are maintained below 40% humidity. 
The applicant has provided justification for a finished product consisting solely of the active, on the 
grounds that the drug substance has ideal flow characteristics, is freely soluble in water, has a low 
angle of repose and the quantity to be consumed by the patient (up to 20 g daily) and this is considered 
satisfactory. 
Adventitious Agents 
Potential contaminates originating from the starting material used for synthesis of the drug substance 
have been convincingly ruled out. 
Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process has been adequately detailed and consists solely of filling the bottle with 
the active substance, outer labelling and packaging, QC control and EU release (Orphan Europe, 
France). An overage has been added for the filling and is adequately justified. 
Parameters  such  as  temperature  and  relative  humidity  control  were  identified  as  critical  parameters 
and controlled during the filling process. 
A process validation protocol describing the operations, equipment used and tests to be performed 
have been provided, as well as validation results of three consecutive batches. All three lots complied 
with the acceptance criteria.  
Product Specification 
Appropriate  finished  product  specification  at  release  and  end  of  shelf-life  have  been  provided.  It 
includes parameters such as identification (IR, HPLC), appearance of the constituted solution, odour 
4/16 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
testing,  loss  on  drying,  Impurity  (GCP),  assay  of  betaine  (HPLC),  uniformity  of  mass  of  delivered 
doses from multidose containers (Ph. Eur. 2.9.27) and microbiological quality (skip testing). 
Analytical methods have been described and validated apart from the methods described in Ph.Eur. 
Batch  analyses  are  provided  for  3  pilot  batches  of  finished  product.  All  results  appear  to  meet  the 
finished product specification. Assay was always above 98%, loss on drying was below 1.0% and no 
amino acid or saccharide impurities were detected. 
The applicant has referred  to the section on impurities as per section 3.2.S.3.2 impurities  and as the 
finished product consists only of the active, this is considered satisfactory. Limits and specifications 
are adequately justified. 
Cystadane is packed in a 300cc round, opaque, white, HDPE bottle with a white Polypropylene child 
resistant  closure.  Three  polystyrene  measuring  spoons  are  enclosed  in  the  carton  for  each  bottle. 
Information  on  the  measuring  devices  can  be  found  in  section  3.2.R  regional  information  and  the 
applicant  commits  to  perform  post-approval  additional  testing  and  to  provide  results  for  the 
“uniformity of mass of delivered doses”. 
Sources and specifications of the bottle and cap are specified and supported by certificates of analysis 
from the finished product manufacturer.  
Primary packaging materials such as HDPE and PP are in line with the Ph.Eur. Requirements. 
Stability of the Product 
Three pilot batches of the finished product stored in the commercial packaging have been placed on 
stability under ICH conditions (up to 24 months at 25 ± 2ºC /60 ± 5%RH and 6 months at 40 ± 2ºC /75 
± 5%RH). Results are in accordance with the specification, and in particular assay remains within the 
range 95 – 105%, and neither saccharide nor amino acid impurities were detected at any time point for 
for both storage conditions. Based on the available data, a shelf life of 2 years with the precaution “do 
not store above 25°C” and “keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect against moisture” can be 
granted. The applicant commits to perform stability studies under ICH conditions and in accordance 
with revised specification. 
In-use  stability  studies  reflecting  the  conditions  of  use  of  the  product  were  performed.  The  finished 
product  was  stored  at  ambient  temperature  and  under  high  humidity  conditions  (75%  RH)  since  the 
active substance is hygroscopic. The bottle was opened daily and a sample was withdrawn. Analysis 
of  the  remaining  powder  was  performed  until  31  days  in  order  to  cover  the  time  required  when 
dosages  under  6  g/per  day  are  used  for  children  under  10  years  of  age.  Results  were  all  within  the 
proposed specification.  
Additional results of stability testing performed on two batches of the finished product, in aqueous 
solution and in simulated gastric fluid were presented. The quantity of powder (6 g) dissolved was 
equivalent to a dose of the finished product as per section 4.2 of the SPC. Satisfactory assay results 
were provided for product solutions over 24 h in water and 2 h in simulated gastric fluid.  
The applicant has committed to continue testing of the 3 batches to the end of the shelf life (2 years) 
and to place 1 batch per year under stability. Any deviation would be reported. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Generally,  satisfactory  documentation  has  been  provided  and  the  minor  objections  raised  in  the 
Day 120  List  of  Questions  and  D 180  List  of  Oustanding  Issues  were  solved  during  the  evaluation 
procedure.  The  active  substance  betaine  is  well-characterised  and  the  retained  specification  is 
acceptable.  
Results showed that betaine is stable and stability data support the proposed re-test period. 
5/16 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regarding  the  finished  product,  the  manufacturing  process  is  a  simple  filling  process  and  has  been  
adequately described and controlled. It should ensure a consistent quality for the product. Appropriate 
specification has been selected for this oral powder. 
Stability  studies  under  ICH  conditions  have  demonstrated  the  good  stability of  the  finished  product. 
Stability  data  support  the  proposed  shelf-life  (before  opening  and  in-use)  and  storage  conditions  as 
defined in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were some outstanding minor quality issues with no impact on 
the  benefit/risk.  The  applicant  undertook  to  provide  with  the  necessary  information  as  follow-up 
measures within an agreed timeframe and to submit variations if required following the evaluation of 
this additional information. 
3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The pharmacology and the toxicology sections are based on the applicant’s own data and bibliographic 
data. The applicant performed one primary pharmacodynamic study and four toxicology studies (one 
acute toxicity testing and three tests for genotoxicity). All other data was of bibliographic origin. 
The search for preclinical bibliographic data was performed in two steps.  
The first step was conducted in 1995 by the literature search service of the Minnesota Technology’s 
Project  Outreach.  In  this  attempt  articles  on  animal  studies  with  betaine  from  1967  to  1995  were 
acquired  from  the  databases  MEDLINE,  Toxlit  and  PUBMED.  The  search  was  performed  for  CAS 
registry “107-43-7” or for “betaine” or “trimethylglycine”. 71 articles where considered useful for the 
“non-clinical development program” at this time point.  
The  second  step  was  conducted  in  2005  with  a  literature  search  in  several  database  such  as 
MEDLINE,  TOXLINE  and  BIOSIS  for  the  period  1995-2005.  The  key  words  combined  terms  like 
“cystadane,  betaine,  betaine-anhydous,  trimethylglycine,  N-trimethylglycine,  methanaminium,  in 
vitro,  animal-study,  animal-model,  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics,  toxicology  or  toxicity”.  About 
150 articles were identified and 58 were considered useful. 
The applicant focused on 45 relevant references. 
Pharmacology 
Betaine (trimethylglycin, CAS: 107-43-7, Mw: 117.15) is a natural occurring quaternary amine closely 
related  to  the  amino  acid  glycine.  Its  primary  function  in  mammals  is  within  the  metabolic  cycle  of 
methionine.  Catabolism  of  methionine  occurs  by  transfer  of  the  adenosyl  group  from  ATP  to  the 
sulphur  group  of  methionine  forming  S-adenosylmethionin.  Subsequently  S-adenosylhomocystein  is 
formed by transfer of the methyl group to an appropriate acceptor such as phosphatidyl ethanolamine. 
S-adenosylhomocysteine  is  then  hydrolysed  to  homocysteine  and  adenosine.  Methionine  can  be 
regenerated  (1)  by  transfer  of  the  methyl  group  of  methyltetrahydrofolate  to  homocysteine  by 
homocysteine methyltransferase (MS) (resulting in methionine and tetrahydrofolate) or (2) by transfer 
of  the  methyl  group  of  betaine  by  the  betainehomocysteinmethyltransferase  (BHMT)  (resulting  in 
methionine and dimethylglycine). These reactions constitute the well known activated methyl cycle. In 
addition homocysteine is an intermediate in the synthesis of cysteine (3). Therefore homocysteine and 
serine  are  condensed  to  cystathionine  by  the  cystathionine  synthetase  (CBS).  Cysthationine  is 
deaminated and cleaved by cystathioninease to cysteine and α-ketobutyrate. 
The  catabolic  pathway  of  methionine  and  the  role  of  homocysteine  are  well  established  and  can  be 
found  in  several  textbooks  of  biochemistry  (Biochemistry;  Streyer  1988,  third  edition).  The  role  of 
betaine is well defined too. The rationale for developing betaine as treatment for homocysteinuria is 
reasonable. 
6/16 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary pharmacodynamics 
Several  pivotal  primary  pharmacodynamics  studies  were  provided  which  showed  that  the  BHMT-
catalysed reaction is inducible in rats, mice and chicks. A second set of experiments in MS-inactivated 
bats  showed  that  betaine  is  able  to  prevent  neurological  impairment  and  that  betaine  is  able  to 
stimulate the BHMT dependent pathway under these conditions. A third set of experiments in ethanol 
fed  rats  showed  that  betaine  is  able  to  prevent  5-methylterahydrofolate  accumulation  indicating  an 
activation of the BHMT pathway. In summary pivotal studies were presented which demonstrated that 
the BHMT pathway can be activated by betaine in several mammalian species. 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Some  secondary  pharmacodynamics  studies  demonstrated  antioxidative,  anticonvulsant,  osmolytic 
function and anti-apoptotic effects of betaine in several models. 
In the rat, betaine was demonstrated to protect the liver against ethanol-induced injury and to prevent 
vitamin A depletion. The antioxidative effect of betaine was related to its ability to increase hepatic 
SAM (S-adenosylhomocysteine) levels and to prevent fatty liver in ethanol-fed rats.  
In rats and  mice, betaine (intraperitoneal administration) blocked homocysteine-induced convulsions 
and antagonised strychnine-, electroshock-, and PTZ- (pentilentetrazole ) induced seizures. Following 
local applications, it also blocked neuronal excitation induced by glutamate and by homocysteine in 
the  rat.  Since  PTZ  is  known  to  block  chloride  channels  and  reduce  GABAergic  inhibition,  an 
interaction is consistent with the physiological effect of betaine as an osmolytic protectant. 
The protective function of betaine as an organic osmolyte was demonstrated in the rat. 
The  increase  of  superoxide  dismutase  and  catalase  activities  and  the  decrease  of  glutathione 
peroxidase activity induced by subcutaneous administration of carbon tetrachloride was normalised in 
the  kidney  of  rats  pretreated  with  betaine.  Pre-incubation  of  rat  culture  hepatocytes  with  betaine 
largely prevented bile acid induced apoptosis. In vivo betaine supplementation in water significantly 
ameliorated hepatocyte apoptosis following bile duct ligation. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
regarding  safety  pharmacology 
No  specific  studies 
for  CNS  parameters)  and 
pharmacodynamic interaction were presented. Non-clinical and human data was submitted regarding 
the influence of betaine on renal system, CNS and CVS. With respect to the safety pharmacology the 
data was incomplete. 
(except 
The  applicant  had  not  provided  any  relevant  recent  clinical  data  concerning  potential  effects  on  the 
CVS  in  particular  on  the  electrophysiology.  The  influence  of  betaine  on  the  electrophysiology  of 
cardiac  action  was  not  discussed.  Since  homocysteinuria  itself  increases  the  risk  for  cardiovascular 
diseases it can be assumed that treated patients are closely monitored by their physicians and potential 
electrophysiological disturbances would have been reported in the past. Also, taking into account that 
betaine is a natural constituent of the human nutrition the CHMP found the lack of non-clinical data 
acceptable. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No specific studies have been presented. 
7/16 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
Betaine  and  its  metabolite  DMG  (Dimethylglycine)  were  determined  by  isocratic  HPLC  procedure 
with u.v. detection. The detection limits were specified to be 0.005 mM/l for betaine and 0.002 mM/l 
for DMG. 
No  specific  pharmacokinetic  animal  studies  have  been  performed.  With  respect  to  the  long-standing 
use of betaine in humans the applicant presented human data.  
No data was presented concerning tissue distribution, protein binding, placental transfer, secretion into 
the  milk  and  pharmacokinetic  drug  interactions.  Since  no  animal  data  was  presented  no  interspecies 
comparisons were possible. 
Safety margins are currently neither available nor considered necessary. 
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
The  single  dose  toxicity  studies  were  consistent  with  a  relatively  low  toxicity  of  betaine.  The  main 
symptoms could be characterised as known symptoms of the CNS and gastrointestinal bleeding. 
Published data: the acute toxicity of betaine is low. In the mouse, LD50 values of 10,800 mg/kg and 
830 mg/kg by the subcutaneous and intravenous route respectively were reported.  
Applicant’s data: In the one single-dose study conducted in rats at dose levels up to 20,000 mg/kg, the 
combined (male and female) LD50 was 11,179 mg/kg. The major antemortem sign of toxicity was CNS 
depression.  Necropsy  of  decedants  revealed  areas  of  body  surface  staining,  altered  stomach,  small 
intestine  and  caecum  contents  and  darkened  glandular  gastric  mucosa  and  brain.  Red  fluid  was 
observed  in  the  small  intestine  of  2  females  and  in  the  small  intestine  and  brain  of  one  male  at 
20,000 mg/kg. Necropsy of survivors was unremarkable. 
The  signs  of  CNS  depression  were  consistent  with  the  anticonvulsant  effects  discussed  in  the 
secondary  pharmacodynamics  section.  The  delayed  deaths  (1/10  at  10,000  and  12,500 mg/kg) 
appeared to be the result of gastro-intestinal irritation and bleeding, not present in survivors and in the 
non-lethal doses of 5000 mg/kg. 
Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Studies  were  mainly  reported  from  the  published  literature  but  one  study  was  conducted  with 
Cystadane by the applicant.  
Published  data:  The  studies  conducted  at  BIBRA  involved  a  dose  range  finding  study  to  evaluate 
reversibility.  The  highest  dose  used  allowed  the  observation  of  some  biological  effects  which 
disappeared during the recovery period. In the definitive study betaine was added to the diet in rats at 
1%, 2% and 5% (17.5 g/day) for 14 or 28 or 90 days. There was no clear evidence of toxicity but at 
higher  betaine  intakes  several  serum  clinical  chemistry  parameters  were  altered  including  increased 
ALKP  and  LDH  levels,  decreased  ALT  activity,  increased  gamma  GT  and  bilirubin  in  females  and 
decreased  albumin  and  protein  levels  in  males.  The  Mean  Cell  Volume  (MCV),  Mean  Cell 
Haemoglobin  (MCH)  and  Mean  Corpuscular  Haemoglobin  Concentration  (MCHC)  of  the  red  blood 
cells were reduced and hepatocytes developed fatty droplets in a dose related manner. Females were 
more affected than males. These effects, except those on the reduced MCV and MCH, were reversed 
during the recovery period. 
In the Brandeis University studies conducted in rats at dietary dose levels of 0.5%, 0.75%, 1 and 5% 
(25 g/day) for 28 days or 5% for 90 days, hepatic lipid droplets were investigated in more detail. Liver 
lipid was reduced by betaine. There were no significant adverse effects of clinical significance, but the 
8/16 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MCV was again reduced at 5% betaine in the 28 day study but all other parameters were completely 
reversible. 
The influence of betaine on the liver and a possible imbalance in the folate-mediated metabolism was 
discussed.  The  observed  effects  of  betaine  on  haematological  parameters  were  attributed  mainly  to 
nutritional  differences  between  the  BIBRA  and  the  Brandeis  study  part.  The  rat  chow  used  in  the 
Brandeis study supplied much more nutrients, vitamins and minerals than the chow used in the BIBRA 
part.  It  is  reasonable  that  haematological  effects  may  occur  in  juvenile  animals  which  where  ill-
nourished  especially  in  individuals  undergoing  pronounced  growth.  With  respect  to  the  influence  of 
betaine on the liver it was shown that betaine enhances lipoprotein secretion and possibly apoprotein 
synthesis. The observed droplets likely represent VLDL particles (VLDL synthesis may be impaired 
due  to  a  limited  energy/protein  supply  in  the  BIBRA  part),  since  no  changes  where  apparent  in  the 
TGSR  in  the  Brandeis  part  of  the  study.  Again,  differences  in  the  composition  of  the  chow  may 
contribute to the observed influence on the liver. The data was considered satisfactory. With respect to 
the extensive clinical experience no evidence of adverse effects on the liver has been identified. 
A 4-week study in male rats to investigate the effects of dietary betaine supplementation (0.5% w/v, 
approximately  1.3 g/kg)  on  methionine  metabolism  in  control  and  ethanol-fed  animals  revealed  that 
betaine had no effects on body weight gain but prevented weight loss induced by ethanol and protected 
against alcoholic fatty liver (Barak et al., 1993). 
Applicant’s data: (This study has been also reported in the Pharmacodynamics Section). Liquid dietary 
administration of betaine at 0%, 0.5% (1.3 g/kg/day) or 1% (2.6 g/kg/day) w/v of betaine for 29 days 
revealed  no  significant  treatment  related  effects  on  food  consumption,  body  weight  gain  or  in 
histopathological examination.  
The  repeated-dose  toxicity  studies  do  not  comply  with  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  repeated  Dose 
Toxicity (CPMP/SWP/1042/99). However, in view of the extensive clinical experience, this was 
considered acceptable.  
Table 2 
Study ID 
Species/Sex/ 
Number/Group 
Dose/Route 
Duration 
NOEL/ 
NOAEL 
(mg/kg/day) 
Rat/10 sex/group 
Oral, dietary 
Dose range 1.3 - 2.6g/kg/day
29 days 
>2.6g/kg/day 
Major 
findings 
None in 
parameters 
evaluated 
Applicant’s 
study. ID 
not given 
BIBRA 
studies 
Rat/10 sex/group 
Rat/40 sex/group 
Rat/20F/group 
Oral, dietary 
Dose range 1, 2 and 5% 
(17.5g/day) 
14 days 
90 days 
28 days 
Not 
established 
Clinical 
chemistry and 
red blood cell 
parameter 
changes 
Brandeis 
studies 
Rat/8 sex/group 
Oral, dietary 
0.5, 0.75, 1 and 5% 
(25g/day) 
28 days 
            1% 
Reversible 
decrease in 
MCV at 5% 
in 28 day 
study 
9/16 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Genotoxicity 
As expected, betaine tested negative in the genotoxicity testing. Betaine was tested for mutagenicity in 
Salmonella  typhimurium  strains  TA1535,  TA1537,  TA1538,  TA98  and  TA100  with  or  without 
metabolic  activation  at  concentration  levels  up  to  5000µg  /plate.  This  study  was  negative.  The 
clastogenic  potential  was  assessed  in  vitro  using  human  lymphocytes  with  or  without  metabolic 
activation  at  concentration  levels  up  to  10,000µg/mL  for  3  hours  (activated  cells)  or  24  hours  (non 
activated cells). This study was negative. The clastogenic potential was assessed in vivo in a mouse 
micronucleus test at dose levels up to 2000mg/kg p.o. This study was negative.  
In  the  bacterial  mutagenicity  assay,  the  relevant  guideline  states  that  the  standard  set  of  bacterial 
strains should include strains that will detect point mutations at A-T (adenine-thymine) sites such as S. 
typhimurium TA102 or E.coli WP2 uvrA. The package presented did not have these strains. However, 
in view of the nature of the product, the package submitted was considered acceptable. 
Table 3 
Type of test/study 
ID/GLP 
Gene mutations in 
bacteria  
M/AMES/17027 
Test system 
Salmonella strains 
TA1535, TA1537, 
TA1538, TA98 
TA100 
Chromosomal 
aberrations in vitro 
M/HL/17028 
Human 
lymphocytes 
Concentration range/ 
Metabolising system 
Results 
+/- S9     8-5000µg/plate 
Negative 
+/- S9    1000-10,000µg/mL 
Negative 
Mouse, micronuclei 
in bone marrow 
+/- S9     500-2000mg/kg 
 Negative 
Chromosomal 
aberrations in vivo 
M/MMN/17029 
Carcinogenicity 
Long-term studies 
There are no reports in the literature of carcinogenicity caused by treatment with betaine at doses up to 
30 g  daily  over  6  months  or  8-20 g/day  for  1  to  3  years,  although  in  view  of  the  short  duration  of 
treatment, these findings cannot be taken as strong evidence of lack of carcinogenic potential. 
As betaine is a naturally constitute of mammalian cells occurring in quite high amounts and taking into 
account its already long term use in clinical practice long term carcinogenicity studies were considered 
not necessary by the CHMP.  
No data was provided concerning short or medium-term studies. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
No relevant studies have been conducted. The applicant stated that in view of the nature of the product 
and the extensive clinical experience, it was not relevant to conduct animal studies. 
The  applicant  stated  that  little  is  known  about  the  interactions  between  choline  and  folate  and 
homocysteine metabolism during pregnancy despite the fact that pregnancy places considerable stress 
on maternal folate and choline stores and that choline is a critical nutrient for the foetus. Furthermore, 
the potential imbalance in folate activity and modification in purin metabolism and cell division with 
consequence on reproductive function during betaine supplementation were not fully explored. 
10/16 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  applicant  reported  6  cases  of  pregnancy  with  betaine  treatment  without  adverse  effects  on 
pregnancy or on the health of the foetus/newborn child and reported one more case which had been 
published in 2000 or 2003 by Gissen et al. The issue was considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
Toxicokinetic data 
No non-clinical data 
Local tolerance  
Not applicable. 
Other toxicity studies 
None 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Betaine is stated to be identical to the natural constituents of mammalian tissues. After absorption, this 
amino acid rapidly enters the methionine/homocysteine cycle.  Therefore no environmental risk can be 
expected  from  the  therapeutic  use  of  betaine.  Indeed,  amino  acids  are  specifically  exempted  from 
testing in the most recent draft guideline. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The  effects  of  betaine  related  to  the  proposed  therapeutic  use  have  been  investigated  in  several  rat 
studies. The effects were also investigated in non-conventional species such as chick and fruit bat. The 
results support the use of betaine for the indication of homocystinuria. 
Studies  on  secondary  pharmacodynamics  showed  that  betaine  protected  the  liver  against  ethanol-
induced  injury  which  was  related  to  its  ability  to  increase  hepatic  SAM  levels  and  betaine  also 
prevented vitamin A depletion. Betaine was shown to have anti-convulsant and anti-apoptotic activity. 
There are no specific studies on safety pharmacology or for pharmacodynamic reaction. It was stated 
that betaine occurs normally in the body, the inference being that it is unlikely to have adverse effects. 
After  a  high  single  dose  some  CNS  depression  signs  appeared  in  animals  (see  Single  dose  toxicity 
below);  it  was  proposed  that  these  were  consistent  with  the  anti-convulsant  effects.  In  view  of  the 
extensive clinical experience, the clinical data may be of greater utility in revealing potential adverse 
treatment related effects. 
The single dose toxicity of betaine was low in rats. The CNS depressant activity only occurred at very 
high dose levels. This was consistent with the anti-convulsant effect of betaine reported. The irritation 
of  the  gastrointestinal  tract  observed  is  consistent  with  the  mild  gastrointestinal  effects  reported 
clinically.   
Following dietary administration to rats at dose levels up to 5% of the diet for 28 or 90 days, the only 
adverse  treatment  related  effects  reported  were  small  perturbations  in  red  blood  cell  parameters  and 
serum chemistry values. These were all fully reversible after 90 days recovery period. However, the 
information  obtained  for  betaine  from  healthy  animals  may  not  be  directly  relevant  to  assessing  the 
potential toxicity in the presence of metabolic abnormalities.  
In  the  package  of  studies  presented,  betaine  was  not  mutagenic.  Carcinogenicity  and  reproduction 
toxicity  studies  were  not  been  conducted.  In  view  of  the  nature  of  the  product,  this  was  considered 
acceptable by the CHMP. 
11/16 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The applicants own data are limited to a pharmacokinetic study conducted in 12 healthy volunteers 
following administration of single dose and repeated doses of betaine and to safety data gathered in 
EU and the USA. Clinical efficacy is based on 202 reports retrieved from literature search. 
GCP 
According to the applicant, the studies followed all ethical guidelines in practice at the time of conduct 
of the studies. No issues regarding GCP aspects have been identified during the review of the dossier. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  absolute  bioavailability  of  betaine  has  not  been  determined.  In  healthy  adult  volunteers  (age 
between 21 to 49 years), after a single oral dose of betaine (50 mg/kg), absorption was rapid (tmax = 
0.9 ± 0.3 hours and a Cmax = 0.9 ± 0.2 mM). Betaine was rapidly distributed into a relatively large 
volume  (V/F  =  1.3 l/kg),  with  a  slow  elimination  rate  (mean  half  life  =  14 h,  mean  total  body 
clearance,  CL/F,  =  84 ml/h/kg),  renal  clearance  being  negligible  (5%  of  total  body  clearance), 
assuming  100%  bioavailability.  After  a  repeated  dose  regimen  of  100 mg/kg/day  for  5  days,  the 
absorption  kinetics  did  not  change  but  the  distribution  half-life  was  prolonged  significantly  (up  to 
36 h),  indicating  saturable  transport  and  redistribution  processes.  The  pharmacokinetic  data  of 
homocystinuric  patients  on  long-term  betaine  supplementation  are  very  similar  to  those  of  healthy 
volunteers.  This  demonstrates  that  differences  in  betaine  kinetics  are  most  probably  due  to  betaine 
depletion in untreated homocystinuria and are only meaningful for the initial treatment. 
There  is  a  possibility  of  chemical  interactions  with  certain  foodstuffs  and  antibiotics.  These 
interactions, although  they  have not  been  formally investigated, may  be  clinically  significant.  Based 
on in vitro data, betaine might interact with amino acids mixtures and drugs like vigabatrin and GABA 
analogues.  As  mentioned  in  the  section  4.4  of  the  SPC,  to  minimize  the  risk  of  potential  drug 
interactions, it is advisable to leave 30 minutes between the intake of betaine and amino acids mixtures 
and/or medicinal products containing vigabatrin and GABA analogues. 
Differences  in  pharmacockinetics  related  to  gender,  age  or  race  or  the  comorbidity  have  not  been 
systematically  studied.  However,  considering  the  nature  and  prevalence  of  the  disease  this  was 
considered to be acceptable. 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  pharmacodynamics  of  betaine  are  based  on  a  review  of  four  published  studies  in  161  healthy 
volunteers,  one  study  with  a  sequential  increase  of  dose  in  34  volunteers  and  three  studies  with 
repeated doses and on published data in patients. 
The  mechanism  of  action  of  betaine  in  hyperhomocystinaemia  has  sufficiently  been  established.  No 
additional data was required. Betaine supplementation appears to be effective in lowering plasma tHcy 
(plasma  total  homocysteine)  concentrations  in  healthy  subjects  and  in  patients  with  homocystinuria. 
Betaine  supplementation  also  seems  to  improve  the  metabolic  abnormalities  in  the  central  nervous 
compartment of patients with homocystinuria. The extent of the effect on plasma tHcy is dependent on 
the absolute degree of hyperhomocysteinemia, being higher in severe hyperhomocysteinemia.  
In CBS- (Cystathionine beta-synthase) deficiency the risk of an excessive accumulation of methionine 
and associated adverse events should be considered. 
The SPC sections 4.4 and 4.5 adequately reflect the potential risk of drug interactions.  
12/16 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy  
Clinical efficacy is based on 202 reports retrieved from literature search. Most cases were reported as 
individual case reports and about 25% cases were pooled as groups of patients. Some of these patients 
have been reported several times, i.e. as a case report at diagnosis, as a case report later in life, and in a 
pooled review. Verified data are available in 140 patients, in which individual biochemical or clinical 
features  as  well  as  dose  and  duration  of  betaine  therapy,  and  pre-existing  or  concomitant  therapies 
were documented. 
Biochemical  efficacy  of  betaine  treatment  in  homocystinuria  using  the  widely  accepted  surrogate 
marker of plasma homocysteine appears to have been demonstrated in the published reports submitted 
for this application. 
Regarding clinical efficacy no data from systematic studies are available. In addition a variety of doses 
and co-treatments have been used. Several forms of bias might have influenced the results. Therefore 
the clinical efficacy of betaine treatment is more difficult to assess than the biochemical efficacy. No 
clear improvement was expected from further studies, especially considering the heterogeneous patient 
population  in  question.  Also  the  limited  available  data  indicated  at  least  an  efficacy  of  betaine  in 
preventing further disease progress. FUMs were not regarded to improve the situation either. 
It  is  therefore  considered  that  the  data  submitted  showing  biochemical  efficacy  and  the  associated 
improvements regarding the various disease symptoms after betaine therapy compared with historical 
data of untreated patients provide sufficient evidence of betaine’s effectiveness. However, it is likely 
that due to the multiple nature of therapy (dietary, pharmaceutical, supportive) in these patients, there 
may be an element of overestimation in the clinical effects of betaine treatment. The seemingly late 
detection in symptoms leads to irreversible damage, especially to the nervous system and connective 
tissue. Such damage cannot be corrected by further therapy. These issues are reflected in the section 
5.1 of the SPC. 
The available clinical data do not allow correlating dosage and clinical efficacy. There is no evidence 
of  development  of  tolerance.  For  example,  there  were  no  reported  rises  in  blood  levels  of 
homocysteine during long-term betaine treatment. 
In  conclusion,  although  there  are  only  a  few  systematic  studies  available,  data  presented  in  this 
application  appear  to  show  both  biochemical  and  clinical  benefits  of  betaine  supplementation  in  the 
management of homocystinuria. 
Clinical safety 
In general, adverse effects seen with betaine therapy appear to be not serious and are mainly related to 
the  gastrointestinal  system.  Study  OMC-BETR-1  indicates  that  these  AEs  are  dose-related.  Betaine 
has  already  been  supplemented  in  many  patients  over  many  years.  Many  of  the  available  data 
concerning safety of betaine have been obtained from neonates, infants, and children of different age 
groups. In this regard, no age-related difference in toxicity of betaine has been observed. However 
data from controlled trials are sparse. 
The occurrence of five cases of potentially life-threatening cerebral oedema while receiving the usual 
dose  of  betaine  raises  concern.  It  is  not  clear  whether  these  reported  cases  occurred  due  to 
accumulation  of  methionine,  or  betaine,  or  both,  or  independently  of  therapy.  In  this  regard  special 
attention should be paid in patients with poor dietary control of hypermethioninemia. It is necessary to 
advise prescribing physicians to monitor methionine plasma concentrations especially in patients with 
CBS-deficiency  receiving  betaine  and  to  pay  attention  to  early  clinical  signs  of  cerebral  oedema. 
Plasma  methionine  level  should  be  monitored,  at  start  of  treatment  and  periodically  thereafter.  The 
plasma  methionine  concentrations  should  be  kept  below  1000 µM.  If  any  symptoms  of  cerebral 
oedema like morning headaches with vomiting or visual changes appear, plasma methionine level and 
13/16 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compliance to the diet should be checked and treatment with Cystadane interrupted. If symptoms of 
cerebral oedema recur after re-introduction of treatment then betaine therapy should be discontinued  
indefinitely. This information is reflected in the SPC. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.   
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
 Cerebral oedema 
routine pharmacovigilance 
patient registry to gather data on 
demographics, drug utilisation 
and safety profile. 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
(see the section referred below in the 
Product Information) 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions 
for use 
Uncommon cases of severe cerebral 
oedema and hypermethioninemia were 
reported within 2 weeks to 6 months of 
starting betaine therapy (see section 4.8). 
Complete recovery was seen after 
treatment discontinuation: 
-          Plasma methionine level should be 
monitored, at start of treatment and 
periodically thereafter. The plasma 
methionine concentrations should be kept 
below 1000 µM. 
-          If any symptoms of cerebral 
oedema like morning headaches with 
vomiting and/or visual changes appear, 
plasma methionine level and compliance 
to the diet should be checked and 
treatment with Cystadane interrupted.  
-          If symptoms of cerebral oedema 
recur after re-introduction of treatment 
then betaine therapy should be 
discontinued indefinitely. 
4.8 Undesirable effects 
Uncommon cases of severe cerebral 
oedema and hypermethioninemia were 
reported within 2 weeks to 6 months of 
starting betaine therapy, with complete 
recovery after treatment discontinuation. 
High increases in plasma methionine 
14/16 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
levels in a range from 1,000 to 3,000 µM 
were noted in these patients. As cerebral 
oedema has also been reported in patients 
with hypermethioninemia, secondary 
hypermethioninemia due to betaine 
therapy has been postulated as a possible 
mechanism of action. 
For specific recommendations, refer to 
section 4.4. 
Limited number of 
patients treated with 
betaine 
routine pharmacovigilance 
patient registry to gather data on 
demographics, drug utilisation 
and safety profile 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Efficacy 
The  data  submitted  showing  biochemical  efficacy  and  the  associated  improvements  regarding  the 
various  disease  symptoms  after  betaine  therapy  compared  with  historical  data  of  untreated  patients 
provide sufficient evidence of betaine’s effectiveness. Betaine in the treatment of homocystinuria has 
been  investigated  in  different  age  groups  and  both  male  and  females.  No  differences  in 
pharmacokinetics or dose-response have been reported. In addition, long-term treatment demonstrated 
constant  effects  over  time.  However,  it  is  likely  that  due  to  the  multiple  nature  of  therapy  (dietary, 
pharmaceutical, supportive) in these patients, there may be an element of overestimation in the clinical 
effects of betaine treatment. 
Since no patient has been treated with betaine alone, it is difficult to distinguish the clinical benefits 
attributable  to  betaine  from  those  affected  by  other  treatment  options.  Nonetheless,  the  addition  of 
betaine  to  pre-existing  therapies  appears  to  lower  homocysteine  plasma  concentrations  and  leads  to 
improved disease symptoms in a substantial group of patients, particularly those with cardiovascular 
symptoms. Homocysteine plasma concentrations are generally accepted as a surrogate marker for the 
severity  of  disease.  Therefore,  it  can  be  considered  that  betaine  offers  benefit  to  patients  with 
homocystinuria.  It  is  however  important  to  emphasise  that  betaine  is  no  substitute  for  the  currently 
available  therapies  such  as  relevant  vitamin  or  dietary  preparations.  In  cases  where  biochemical 
markers are controlled by restricted diet and vitamin supplementation (B6, B12, folate) no advantage 
is  to  be  expected  for  betaine  co-treatment.  Even  though  the  dosage  is  not  critical,  its  use  should  be 
clinically  and,  where  appropriate,  also  biochemically  monitored  by  an  experienced  physician  on  a 
regular basis. 
15/16 
©EMEA 2007 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
With  regards  to  safety,  betaine  appears  to  be  well  tolerated.  Many  of  the  available  data  concerning 
safety of betaine have been obtained from neonates, infants, and children of different age groups. 
In  general,  adverse  effects  seen  with  betaine  therapy  appeared  to  be  not  serious  and  were  mainly 
related to the gastrointestinal system. The occurrence of cases of potentially life-threatening cerebral 
oedema while receiving the usual dose of betaine raised concern. However this issue was adequately 
dealt with in the SPC and the provided RMP. 
User consultation 
Results  of  assessments  carried  out  in  cooperation  with  target  patient  groups  on  the  package  leaflet 
(‘User  Consultation’  of  the  package  leaflet  according  to  (Art  59(3)  and  61(1)  of  the  amended 
Directive)  were  presented.  Data  included  the  method,  background  information  and  results  of  the 
testing procedures. 
The  proposed  product  information  submitted  was  considered  satisfactory  as  the  leaflet  tested 
accounted  for  the  changes  as  requested  in  the  Day  120  LOQ  for  the  product  and  as  such  additional 
testing was not considered necessary. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  Apart  registry no additional pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine 
pharmacovigilance were needed.  
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the 
product information. 
Betaine was shown to be useful as an adjunctive therapy to the existing treatment of homocystinuria. It 
is  no  substitute  for  other  currently  available  therapies  such  vitamin  supplementation  or  dietary 
intervention.  When  used  as  indicated,  betaine  seems  to  have  a  favourable  benefit  to  risk  ratio. 
Although there were only a few systematic studies available, data presented in this application showed 
both  biochemical  and  clinical  benefits  of  betaine  supplementation  in  the  management  of 
homocystinuria and that Cystadane has a positive risk-benefit ratio in the treatment of these patients. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  decision  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Cystadane  in  the  adjunctive  treatment  of 
homocystinuria  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing 
authorisation. 
16/16 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
