SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Cystagon. This scientific 
discussion  has  been  updated  until  1  October  2002.  For  information  on  changes  after  this  date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Nephropathic cystinosis is a rare autosomal recessive disease. It is characterised by an accumulation of 
free cystine in the lysosomes (lysosomal storage  disease) of various cell types and results in cystine 
crystals  deposition  in  the  kidney,  brain,  cornea,  conjunctiva,  bone  marrow,  lymphatic  nodes, 
leukocytes and other organs. Diagnosis can be established by measuring cystine levels in white blood 
cells Children with this lethal disease develop end-stage kidney failure in a short period of time and 
usually enter into dialysis or transplant program by the end of the first decade of life. 
Variant forms of cystinosis are also known including an intermediate form in which end-stage renal 
disease is reached somewhere in the second to third decade of life, and a benign variant in which the 
only systemic manifestation are photophobia and corneal crystals. 
The  treatment  of  cystinosis  nephropathy  involves  replacement  of  fluid  and  electrolytes  losses. 
Cysteamine is not available as a proprietary medicinal product in the European Union, but is already 
used in different forms (cysteamine hydrochloride, phosphocysteamine, cysteamine bitartrate) for the 
treatment of these patients. 
Cystagon contains cysteamine bitartrate. Cysteamine bitartrate is the name currently used whereas the 
International Non-proprietary Name of the product is mercaptamine bitartrate. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Cystagon  is  presented  in  white  hard  gelatin  capsules  containing  50  mg  or  150  mg  of  cysteamine 
formulated as cysteamine bitartrate. The two different strengths are identified by the capsule size and 
by a specific printing (CYSTA 50 or CYSTA 150) on the capsule body. 
Development pharmaceutics 
The  capsule  formulation  has  been  selected  in  order  to  improve  treatment  compliance  (improved 
palatability  compared  to  the  sulfide-like  odour  of  other  cysteamine  solutions).  The  second  objective 
was  to  obtain  a  better  stability  compared  to  oral  solutions.  The  excipients  were  selected  in  order  to 
minimise the moisture content and therefore avoid bitartrate instability.  
The formulation is empirical and only justified by the stability data.  
Compatibility studies with the selected packaging were not provided but the selected packaging was 
considered acceptable on the basis of the stability studies. A desiccant unit containing black activated 
carbon and silica gel granules is included in the bottles. 
A  dry  granulation  technique  was  used  because  cysteamine  bitartrate  is  hygroscopic  and  quickly 
oxidises in the presence of moisture. 
Method of preparation of the drug product 
The  capsules  are  manufactured  by  a  single  blending/compacted  milled  process  which  lead  to  a 
cysteamine  bitartrate  intermediate  used  for  encapsulation  of  both  strengths.  The  manufacturing 
process  is  described  for  a  100  kg  batch  size  of  cysteamine  bitartrate  intermediate  which  is  used  for 
about 100 000 capsules of 50 mg and 130000 capsules of 150 mg. A diagram showing controls and 
specifications was enclosed for the preparation of the intermediate. The manufacturing process yields 
an intermediate bulk and a final product with acceptable physical and chemical characteristics.  
The  precautions  taken  to  protect  the  active  substance  during  the  manufacturing  process  have  been 
described.  A  clear  validated  procedure  of  the  handling  of  the  active  substance  during  the 
manufacturing process should be provided. 
1/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Control of starting material 
Active substance 
The  pharmaceutical  documentation  consists  of  an  open  documentation  and  a  confidential  dossier 
(DMF). An EDMF has been submitted to the EMEA by Profarmaco and a letter of access is presented 
in the documentation. 
The synthetic pathway for cysteamine bitartrate is provided. 
Cysteamine bitartrate is easily soluble in water. Its structure is supported by the results of elemental 
analysis  and  data  from  several  spectroscopic  techniques.  Cysteamine  base  without  the  bitartrate 
moiety does not present isomerism.  
The  revised  specifications  including  the  colour  specification,  the  tightening  of  ignition  residue 
specification  and  a  more  stringent  particle  specification  were  considered  acceptable.  Specifications 
limits for cysteamine are 97 - 102%. 
Results were presented for three batches manufactured. The proposed analytical controls were not able 
to  confirm  if  all  potential,  product  related  and  process  related,  impurities  were  adequately  studied. 
Therefore  cysteamine  tartrate  and  bitartrate  levels  should  be  included  in  the  specifications  which 
already include the degradation product of cystamine. A new limit for single and total impurities was 
defined  and  will  be  reviewed  according  to  the  observed  results  by  Gas  Chromatography/  Mass 
Spectrometry. 
The applicant has provided some information on the raw material used for manufacture of the active 
substance.  However  it  is  not  possible  to  assess  the  impurity  profile  from  raw  materials  before  the 
impurities reports are submitted. One of the material, hydrochloride, can sometimes react with an thiol 
group  to  yield  a  chlorine  derivative  which  is  potentially  toxic.  This  potential  impurity  should  be 
searched and a limit should be proposed and justified.  
Other components 
Certificates  of  analysis  issued  by  the  manufacturer  are  presented  for  each  of  the  excipients.  The 
functional details of the excipients are described. 
Packaging material 
Diagrams  and  construction  of  the  different  bottles,  closures  and  desiccant  as  well  as  their 
specifications and control methods are fully described. The certificates of analysis provided for each 
component give results which conform to specifications. The stability data for capsules stored in the 
defined  primary  packaging  up  to  2  years,  and  30  months  for  some  batches,  demonstrate  that  those 
packs are entirely suitable for both dosage forms. 
Control tests on intermediate product material 
The cysteamine bitartrate bulk is prepared for both 50 mg and 150 mg encapsulation. Bulk density and 
sieve analysis are controlled on each batch production to check the reproducible homogeneity of the 
powder. The same assay content limits are applied for the bulk and capsules control at release. 
The specification for the contents have been revised and tightened to 95 - 105%. 
Control tests on the finished product 
Specification used to control the quality is based on standard requirements for capsule dosage forms. 
All methods have been  validated and the same limits are applied at manufacture and throughout the 
proposed shelf-life of the product for all test parameters. 
The  specifications  at  release  for  related  substances  and  loss  on  drying  were  not  supported  by  the 
results presented in the batch analysis and were therefore tightened. The specifications at release for 
content were adapted to meet the European guidelines (95 - 105%). 
Information  on  3  manufacturing  batches  (indicating  the  manufacturing  scale)  should  be  provided.  It 
should  be  clearly  established  that  the  manufacturing  process  yields  a  finished  product  with  a 
reproducible quality. Data on the microbiological quality of the finished product should be provided as 
well.  
2/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability 
Stability of the active substance 
Cysteamine  contains  a  thiol  group  which  is  extremely  susceptible  to  oxidation  forming  the 
corresponding disulphide cystamine which is the main degradation product. The speed of oxidation of 
thiols may increase through the effects of heat and light.  
Results  are  presented  from  stability  studies  on  five  batches  manufactured  between  June  1992  and 
January 1995 stored at room temperature (+27.2°C ± 2.5°C) up to 3 years. The batches were stored in 
containers  simulating  the  packaging  system.  The  analytical  methods  applied  were  the  same  as  at 
release. The substance is hygroscopic and unstable under the studied storage conditions. 
Preliminary results at 6 months on one batch stored at 15-30°C/40-60% relative humidity under closed 
conditions (produced in January 1996, batch size 140 kg) were enclosed. Data on three other batches 
will be submitted later in order to establish the storage conditions for the bulk product and the re-test 
period. For the time being the manufacturer should control each active substance  batch immediately 
before using it in the manufacture of the finished product. 
No  data  on  degradation  under  stress  conditions  were  provided.  Results  of  studies  regarding  the 
intrinsic stability of the active substance will be provided later. 
Stability of the finished product 
Four  batches  of  each  strength  manufactured  on  production  scale  were  packed  and  stored  in  high-
density polyethylene bottles of 100 and 500 capsules. The storage conditions are in conformity with 
European Union guideline requirements. The only change observed was a slight increase in cystamine 
level and in moisture but all results are within the specifications limits. The release limits have been 
corrected to 90 - 105%. 
The trend for hygroscopy was confirmed and on the basis of the batches obtained during 1994, a shelf 
life of 2 years can be accepted. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  preclinical dossier refers  mainly to  old  bibliographical data  on cysteamine hydrochloride  which 
are  not  up  to  current  standards.  No  experimental  toxicological  and  pharmacological  studies  were 
carried out by the applicant. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Review  of  cysteamine  pharmacodynamics  was  made  through  a  bibliographical  research  in  four 
databases for the period 1980-1996. 
There are no animal models of cystinosis to study the pharmacodynamic effects of cysteamine.  
No data concerning general pharmacodynamics are available. Several well-known pharmacodynamic 
effects that could be relevant to the side-effects profile of the drug, such as the action on somatostatin, 
prolactin and glucagon and the induction of duodenal ulcers were described in rats. 
Pharmacokinetics 
No animal pharmacokinetic data are available. 
Toxicology  
Single dose toxicity 
Although  the  documentation  did  not  comply  with  standard  toxicological  methods  and  presented 
important  deficiencies,  the  gastrointestinal  tract  could  be  considered  as  the  main  target  organ  as 
demonstrated  in  single  dose  toxicity  studies  in  rodents.  The  test  substance  was  cysteamine 
hydrochloride. 
Repeated dose toxicity  
Subacute  toxicity  was  studied  in  a  four-week  oral  study  in  2  monkeys  (150  mg/kg/day)  and  in  a  13 
week feeding study in rabbits (100 mg/kg/day). Chronic toxicity was only studied in 5 monkeys given 
20-150  mg/kg/day  orally  for  one  year.  No  gastrointestinal  effect  was  observed  in  these  studies. 
3/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Although  the  low  doses  were  below  the  therapeutic  dosage  (50-60  mg/kg/day  of  cysteamine 
bitartrate), the no-effect level could not be established. 
Single and repeated administration to rats indicated that gastric and duodenal ulcers can be produced 
at high doses of 200 mg/kg and above by subcutaneous injection. 
The  chronic  toxicity  study  in  monkeys  and  another  9-week  study  in  rabbits  showed  effects  on  bone 
marrow. However the available data neither demonstrate nor totally exclude the effect of cysteamine 
on bone marrow. This is addressed into the relevant parts of the Summaries of Product Characteristics. 
Other  studies in rats confirmed a potential for duodenal and gastric ulcerogenic effects, and cataract 
development with early administration of the study. 
Reproduction toxicity 
The reproduction toxicity data originate from old publications which do not follow current guidelines. 
Four studies with cysteamine bitartrate have been provided. But there is only one proper study in rats. 
The others are dose ranging studies (two in rats and one in rabbits) with no foetus examinations.  
Maternotoxicity  was  observed  at  all  doses  tested.  An  embryolethal  effect  was  reported  from 
100  mg/kg.  Furthermore  the  dose  ranging  study  in  rabbit  was  not  assessable  because  of  a  higher 
sensitivity of this species to cysteamine. No information is provided on foeto-placental transfer and on 
milk transfer. 
There  are  not  sufficient  data  available  to  assess  the  effects  of  cysteamine  on  reproduction  function. 
The  information  in  Sections  4.3  Contra-indications  and  4.6  Pregnancy  and  Lactation  addresses  this 
situation. 
Further to the Commission Decision issued on 23 June 1997, two new articles on the reproductive and 
embryo-foetal development safety of oral cysteamine (administered as phosphocysteamine) in the rat 
have been published. Cysteamine is shown to be teratogenic in rats at doses equal or greater than 100 
mg/kg/day. This teratogenic dose is equivalent to 0.6 g /m2/day in the rat, which is less than half the 
recommended  clinical  maintenance  dose  of  cysteamine  (1.30  g/m2/day).  Therefore,  the  Marketing 
Authorisation  Holder  submitted  a  Type  II  variation  application  on  7  November  2000  to  update  the 
relevant sections of the SPC to revise the information on pregnancy based on new preclinical data on 
the reproduction toxicity of the active substance. 
Mutagenic potential  
Genotoxicity studies were incomplete and did not comply with European Union guidelines. There was 
however  in  vitro  evidence  of  a  clastogenic  potential  of  cysteamine.  The  applicant  was  therefore 
requested to complete genotoxicity studies.  
The  company  provided  the  results  of  an  AMES  test  and  a  Mouse  Micronucleus  test.  These  studies 
indicated that no mutations or micronuclei were induced at the dose levels studied. The results were 
considered satisfactory. 
Carcinogenicity 
No data are available.  
Immunogenicity 
No data are available.  
Risk-benefit considerations for a potentially effective drug intended for a disease whose alternative is 
death at an early stage recommend the preclinical dossier to be accepted despite the deficiencies. The 
applicant  has  been  requested  to  provide  toxicological  studies  to  determine  the  mutagenicity  and 
genotoxicity  
4.   Clinical aspects 
Cystinosis is a very rare disease and therefore a traditional clinical development program has not been 
performed owing to very small numbers of available patients. 
Diagnosis  can  be  established  by  cystine  levels  in  white  blood  cells  and  expressed  as  nanomoles  of 
hemicystine  per  milligram  protein  (as  some  analytical  methods  do  not  differentiate  disulfide  cystine 
4/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
and  thiol  cystine).  Normal  individuals  have  white  blood  cell  cystine  levels  of  less  than 
0.2  whereas  subjects  heterozygous  for  cystinosis  have  levels  below  1  nmol/hemicystine/mg  protein. 
than 
Individuals  with  nephropathic  cystinosis  have  white  blood  cell 
2 nmol/hemicystine/mg protein. 
levels  of  more 
White blood cell cystine levels below 1 nmol/hemicystine/mg protein have been chosen as the target 
level marker of drug efficacy measured 5 to 6 hours following administration of the drug. This level is 
approximately the upper level of cystine in heterozygotes. Since heterozygotes have no symptoms or 
signs of renal or other organ dysfunction, this level is compatible with normal renal function. Patients 
in whom those levels were not reached were considered to be inadequately treated. 
The clinical documentation describes studies using cysteamine hydrochloride, phosphocysteamine and 
cysteamine bitartrate in different formulations. The capsule formulation may increase compliance by 
decreasing  the  unpleasant  taste  and  smell  of  cysteamine.  Cysteamine  hydrochloride  was  the  first 
formulation to be tried and was administered as a solution every 6 hours with an average maintenance 
dose of 50 mg/kg/day. 
Clinical pharmacology  
Pharmacodynamic studies 
There  is  little  information  in  the  dossier  regarding  cysteamine  pharmacodynamics.  Orally 
administered cysteamine bitartrate rapidly dissociates in gastrointestinal tract into active cysteamine. 
Lysosomal cystine accumulation in cystinosis results from the defective transport of cystine across the 
lysosomal  membrane  into  the  cytoplasm.  The  cystine-depleting  efficacy  of  cysteamine  has  been 
demonstrated  in  vitro  and  in  vivo.  It  has  been  shown  that  cysteamine  freely  crosses  the  cytoplasmic 
membrane  concentrating  in  the  acidic  lysosomes.  There  it  reacts  with  cystine  to  form  cysteine  and 
cysteine-cysteamine mixed disulphide which leave cystinotic lysosomes. 
Pharmacokinetic studies  
There is a lack of pharmacokinetic data but a new kinetic study is planned. Its results will be submitted 
when available.  
Absorption,  distribution,  metabolism  and  elimination  studies  have  not  been  performed.  Interaction 
data are also missing.  
As  most  clinical  efficacy  studies  have  been  carried  out  with  cysteamine  hydrochloride  and 
phosphocysteamine,  bioequivalence  studies  between  these  2  formulations  and  cysteamine  bitartrate 
were performed.  
Study  CYST  9301  and  study  CYST  9929  were  carried  out  in  male  healthy  volunteers  (8  and  24 
respectively)  randomly  assigned  to  cysteamine  bitartrate  capsules  or  cysteamine  hydrochloride 
solution corresponding for both formulations to 1050 mg cysteamine base). The 2 formulations were 
considered bioequivalent in these studies. 
Study CYST 9235 was carried out in 8 patients with cystinosis already receiving cysteamine hydro-
chloride or phosphocysteamine solutions for at least 1 year. These patients were switched to equimolar 
(in terms of free base) doses of cysteamine bitartrate capsules and treated for 21 days.  
Mean plasma cysteamine concentrations following treatment with cysteamine bitartrate capsules were 
higher  than  those  following  treatment  with  the  solutions.  The  effect  on  white  blood  cells  cystine  of 
bitartrate capsules was approximately twice that of the solution.  
Therefore both formulations cannot be considered equivalent in patients with cystinosis at steady state. 
Cysteamine  bitartrate  at  the  dose  used  induced  a  greater  reduction  in  the  white  blood  cells  cystine 
levels below 1 nmol/hemicystine/mg protein. 
Post-marketing data - Further to the Commission Decision issued on 23 June 1997 and as a part of a 
specific  obligation,  the  study  entitled  “Estimation  of  oral  cysteamine  bitartrate  pharmacokinetics  at 
steady-state in cystinotic patients” was submitted on January 21st, 2000.  
The results showed that the decrease in leucocyte cystine levels is correlated to the cysteamine plama 
concentration over the six hours following the administration of Cystagon. The leucocyte cystine level 
reaches  its  minimum  (mean  (±  sd)  value:  1.8  ±  0.8  hours)  slightly  later  than  the  peak  plasma 
5/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
cysteamine concentration (mean (± sd) value: 1.4 ± 0.4 hours) and returns to its baseline level as the 
plasma  cysteamine  concentration  decreases  at  6  hours  post-dose.  Following  a  single  oral  dose  of 
cysteamine  bitartrate  equivalent  to  1.05  g  of  cysteamine  free  base  in  healthy  volunteers,  the  mean 
(±sd) values for the time to peak and peak plasma concentration are 1.4 (±0.5) hours and 4.0 (±1.0) 
µg/ml, respectively. In patients at steady state, these values are 1.4 (± 0.4) hours and 2.6 (±0.9) µg /ml, 
respectively,  after  a  dose  ranging  from  225  to  550  mg.  The  in  vitro  plasma  protein  binding  of 
cysteamine,  which  is  mostly  to  albumin,  is  independent  of  plasma  drug  concentration  over  the 
therapeutic range, with a mean (±sd) value of 54.1 % (±1.5). The plasma protein binding in patients at 
steady state is similar: 53.1% (±3.6) and 51.1% (±4.5) at 1.5 and 6 hours post-dosing, respectively. 
In a pharmacokinetic study performed in 24 healthy volunteers for 24 hours, the mean estimate (±sd) 
for  the  terminal  half-life  of  elimination  was  4.8  (±  1.8  hours).  The  elimination  of  unchanged 
cysteamine in the urine has been shown to range between 0.3% and 1.7% of the total daily dose in four 
patients;  the  bulk  of  cysteamine  is  excreted  as  sulphate.  Very  limited  data  suggest  that  cysteamine 
pharmacokinetic parameters may not be significantly modified in patients with mild to moderate renal 
insufficiency. No information is available for patients with severe renal insufficiency. 
On 7 November 2000, the Marketing Authorisation Holder submitted a Type II variation application 
to  update  the  relevant  sections  of  the  SPC  in  order  to  incorporate  the  pharmacokinetic  information 
obtained in this study. 
Clinical experience 
In the three studies presented, a total of 234 patients with nephropathic  cystinosis have been treated 
over  a  12-year  period.  Patients  were  diagnosed  by  increased  levels  of  white  blood  cells  cystine 
(>  0.2  nmol/hemicystine/mg  protein),  cystine  crystals  in  cornea  or  in  bone  marrow.  Mean  age  of 
diagnosis was 21 months whereas mean age of entry was 41 months. 
Both the representativity of the population and inclusion criteria are appropriate. Efficacy criteria were 
maintenance of renal function (renal function and/or renal death was assessed by creatinine clearance 
levels,  calculated  renal  clearance,  need  for  dialysis  or  transplantation),  improved  survival, 
maintenance of growth velocity and levels of white blood cells cystine. 
No  formal  double  blind  placebo  controlled  efficacy  studies  are  available  both  for  ethical  reasons 
(positive initial results, lack of therapeutic alternative and fatal outcome of the disease) and practical 
reasons (odour and taste of cysteamine). 
The  dosages  given  were  usually  chosen  with  the  aim  to  achieve  a  reduction  of  white  blood  cells 
cystine  below  2  nmol/hemicystine/mg  protein.  Patients  who  did  not  achieve  these  low  levels  were 
considered to have been inadequately treated. 
Efficacy 
Three clinical studies for efficacy are available. An initial open study with historical placebo treated 
controls  (9148-1),  a  retrospective  study  (9148-2)  in  which  many  of  the  patients  were  probably 
undertreated  and  an  extension  of  9148-1  including  also  some  newly  recruited  patients  (9148-3)  in 
which two different doses were studied.  
Study 9148-1 was an open and multicentre study which enrolled 97 patients (males 22, females 41). 
94 nephropathic cystinosis patients were treated with either oral solution of cysteamine hydrochloride 
(N = 91) or phosphocysteamine (N = 3). The  dose was approximately 54 mg/kg/day for cysteamine 
and  phosphocysteamine.  A  historical  control  group  was  used  from  a  randomised  study  of  patients 
treated with ascorbic acid or placebo. The inclusion criteria were: proven nephropathic cystinosis with 
serum  creatinine  values  less  than  4  mg/dl  (350  µmol/l),  elevated  leukocyte  cystine  content 
(> 0.2 nmol/hemicystine/mg protein) and no other known disease. The same inclusion criteria applied 
to the historical control.  
Renal function  
The  patients  treated  with  cysteamine  showed  a  maintained  mean  creatinine  clearance  with  values  at 
entry and after 5 years of treatment of 43 and 47.4 ml/min/1.73m2 respectively. Statistical comparison 
of  creatinine  clearance  values  between  groups  showed  a  significant  difference  in  favor  of  the 
cysteamine group (p = 0.0006). 
6/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
The number of cysteamine treated patients with a serum creatinine level below 10 mg/ml at age 6 was 
higher  than  that  of  controls  (17  of  27  versus  2  of  17,  respectively:  odds  ratio  12.8).  Patients  who 
started therapy with some degree of renal damage were less likely to respond. 
No patients treated with cysteamine died but 12 out of 97 patients had renal death whereas 1 out of 
17 patients in the historical placebo control died and 2 had renal death.  
Growth  
Standardised  height  was  86%  of  the  50th  percentile  at  entry  and  84%  after  5  years  of  treatment 
indicating maintenance of growth rate in cysteamine treated patients. 
Study  9148-2  was  a  retrospective  and  non-comparative  study.  Fifty-nine  children  with  cystinosis 
(44 without transplant, 15 with renal transplant; 29 male patients and 30 male patients) were treated 
with  cysteamine  hydrochloride  or  phosphocysteamine  in  the  United  Kingdom.  Only  the  non-
transplanted  patients  were  included  in  the  efficacy  analysis.  The  doses  of  cysteamine  hydrochloride 
and phosphocysteamine were 34.4 and 36.5 mg/kg/day respectively. 26 patients received cysteamine 
hydrochloride and 18 patients phosphocysteamine. 
Renal function 
Cysteamine at relatively low doses slowed or prevented deterioration of glomerular function, based on 
creatinine  clearance,  which  showed  only  a  slight  deterioration  from  baseline  to  6  years  (only 
11 patients received treatment for 6 years). 
Growth  
This  study  demonstrated  that  cysteamine  or  phosphocysteamine  therapy  resulted  in  maintenance  of 
growth rate in treated patients. 
Survival  
Of  the  evaluable  patients,  3  (7%)  required  transplantation  but  started  therapy  late  in  the  disease  at  
4.6 and 8 years of age. One of these patients died of multisystemic failure compatible with cystinosis. 
There  was  no  significant  difference  between  pre-treatment  and  final  values  of  white  blood  cells 
cystine  concentrations.  This  is  likely  due  to  the  lower  dose  used  in  this  study  with  respect  to  study 
9148-1.  The  general  trend  however  was  that  patients  who  started  treatment  at  an  early  stage  with  a 
reduction in white blood cells cystine can reach 10 years of age with an acceptable renal function.  
Study  9148-3  was  an  open,  multicentre  study  which  included  93  naive  patients  (39  males  and  
38 females, with serum creatinine < 3 mg/ml and confirmed high levels of white blood cells cystine 
concentrations) and 46 patients who completed study 9148-1 (with serum creatinine < 4 mg/ml values 
without dialysis or transplant). The complete data of study 9148-3 up to the end of the trial in 1994 
were provided.  
Cysteamine  hydrochloride  or  phosphocysteamine  were  randomly  allocated  and  administered  in 
solution every 6 hours at a dose of either 1.3 g/m2/day or 1.95 g/m2/day (equivalent to approximately 
60  or  90  mg/kg/day  respectively).  The  dosage  calculations  were  made  according  to  body  surface  in 
this study because patients might gain weight but might not catch up height, and this could result in an 
excessive dosage calculated only on the weight basis. 28 patients received cysteamine hydrochloride 
and 65 patients phosphocysteamine. 
Renal function 
The  results  indicated  that  cysteamine  maintained  glomerular  function  when  treatment  was  started 
early, based on creatinine clearance levels and lack of dialysis or transplant. 
Survival  
Eight  out  of  46  (17%)  long-term  patients  experienced  renal  death.  Four  patients  underwent 
transplantation or dialysis. Two naive patients from the new patients group died but their deaths were 
not considered to be related to cysteamine therapy. 
7/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Growth  
Growth rate was maintained in both dosage groups with no change in rate from start of therapy to the 
data cut-off point. 
This  study  showed  no  difference  in  response  between  the  two  doses  of  approximately  60  or 
90 mg/kg/day, given orally in four divided doses.  
Following  administration  to  children  and  adults  with  elevated  leukocyte  cystine  concentrations, 
cysteamine free base at doses of 1.3 or 1.95 g/m2/day given in four divided doses reduced leukocyte 
cystine. In naive patients the mean leukocyte cystine level was 3.73 nmol/hemicystine/mg protein at 
entry. Levels fell with treatment and remained close to 1 nmol/hemicystine/mg protein after 36 months 
of treatment. However the recommended dosage did not seem to achieve the intended white blood cell 
cystine levels in a number of patients according to the postmarketing data submitted. 
In  summary,  clinical  studies  have  demonstrated  that  cysteamine  was  effective  in  preventing 
degradation of renal function, improving survival and growth rate in patients with cystinosis. In order 
to maintain white blood cells cystine below 1 nmol/hemicystine/mg protein, the oral dosage given in 
4 divided doses was determined to be 50-60 mg/kg (1.3 g/m2/day) in children under age 12 and under 
50 kg of weight and 2 g/day given orally in four divided doses in older children and adults. Leukocyte 
cystine  level  has  not  been  formally  validated  as  a  surrogate  end  point  but  its  reduction  is  very 
suggestive of efficacy given the accepted pathophysiology of cystinosis. Nevertheless the dosage has 
to be adapted individually to reduce white blood cells cystine levels.  
Oral  cysteamine  was  not  shown  to  prevent  eye  deposition  of  cystine  crystal  and  it  is  not  known 
whether cysteamine may prevent brain deposition of cystine, thereby preventing dementia. 
Safety 
Safety  data  are  scarce  concerning  cysteamine  bitartrate  but  information  coming  from  other 
formulations trials is acceptable. 
The  safety  evaluation  is  based  on  246  patients  in  whom  clinical  observations  and  laboratory  studies 
performed periodically. Adverse events were collected retrospectively (except in study 9148-3) but the 
reports were not prepared in a standardised manner. 
The two dose levels used in study 9148-3 showed no significant difference except for naive patients 
who  received  phosphocysteamine.  11  patients  (32%)  experienced  vomiting  at  1.3  g/m2/day  whereas 
21 (71%) at 1.95 g/m2/day. 
In  study  9148-1,  cysteamine  was  well  tolerated.  Nausea  and  vomiting  were  the  main  side  effects 
observed.  In  the  cysteamine  group,  3  patients  withdrew,  one  had  a  serious  event  (hepatic  veno-
occlusive  disease  probably  related  to  cystinosis).  25  patients  reported  33  events,  3  of  which  were 
serious  and  possibly  related  to  cysteamine  (one  hospitalisation  for  dehydration  after  vomiting,  one 
episode of moderate increase of ALT, AST and LDH and one episode of hallucinations). 
In study 9148-2, 9 patients withdrew due to adverse events mostly gastrointestinal (nausea, vomiting, 
anorexia,  diarrhoea  and  fever)  and  2  other  patients  withdrew  due  to  adverse  events  and  disease 
progression (one of these patients died of multisystemic failure consistent with cystinosis). 
In study 9148-3, 2 patients died but their deaths were not considered related to cysteamine therapy.  
14  patients (10%) withdrew  mostly due to gastrointestinal adverse events. No sudden or unexpected 
adverse events were observed. 
Since  the  marketing  authorisation  in  the  United  States  of  America,  three  serious  adverse  events 
have been reported. One case of stomach pain and skin discoloration, one case of Fanconi syndrome 
(proteinuria and hypoalbuminaemia) and one case of elevated blood glucose. 
The  most  frequent  adverse  events  were  nausea,  vomiting  and  anorexia.  Skin  rashes  were  reported. 
Other undesirable effects included seizures and hallucinations. 
The  applicant  is  keeping  a  register  of  the  treated  patients  including  data  on  their  general  clinical 
outcome  and  possible  adverse  effects.  Furthermore  the  applicant  proposed  a  form  that  would  be 
provided  with  each  order  of  the  medicinal  product  and  a  form  which  would  collect  information  on 
8/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
patients  who  discontinue  treatment.  The  applicant  has  been  requested  to  provide  analysis  of  this 
information gathered with these forms on a regular basis. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Risk 
About 70% of patients suffered from adverse effects. Some of them such as gastroduodenal irritation 
coincided with those foreseen in preclinical studies. 
There  is  a  concern  with  regard  to  the  long-term  use  of  cysteamine.  The  potential  for  bone  marrow 
depression  and  for  neuroendocrinological  side  effects  in  humans  and  the  lack  of  complete 
mutagenicity  or  carcinogenicity  animal  studies  may  become  particularly  relevant  with  a  medicinal 
product prolonging significantly life expectancy. Though no mutagnic concern was noted in Ames test 
and Mouse micronucleus test performed later. 
Furthermore  the  reproduction  studies  do  not  allow  concluding  on  a  teratogenicity  potential  which  is 
also a concern as women with cystinosis reach childbearing age. 
Benefit 
The three clinical trials strongly suggested that cysteamine delayed renal deterioration (as estimated by 
means of creatinine levels) and renal death (need for dialysis or renal transplantation) when treatment 
is started at an early age with good renal function. Treated children can reach the age of ten with an 
acceptable renal function whereas renal death is expected before that age in the natural course of the 
disease.  Efficacy  on  renal  function  is  less  clear  if  treatment  is  started  when  renal  failure  is  already 
marked. 
Considering  that  nephropathic  cystinosis  is  a  fatal  and  rare  disease  and  that  cysteamine  is  already 
considered  a  useful  drug  with  no  alternative  treatment  (although  not  available  as  a  proprietary 
medicinal  product  in  the  European  Union),  the  risk-benefit  ratio  of  Cystagon  has  to  be  considered 
favourable.  
More  information  on  the  possible  long-term  side  effects  will  be  provided  through  the  analysis  of 
information gathered from a register of treated patients.  
First Annual Reassessment 
Orphan Europe submitted a dossier to the EMEA, Rapporteur, Co-Rapporteur and CPMP members in 
June 1998. At the request of the Rapporteur, Orphan Europe has updated this dossier to complete the 
information initially provided. 
Orphan  Europe  submitted  data  on  the  extent  of  use  of  Cystagon  in  the  European  Union,  a  clinical 
expert  comment  on  the  new  information  provided  since  the  marketing  authorisation  and  a  company 
comment indicating their experience and suggestions regarding the use of the patient follow-up forms. 
The  total  number  of  patient  treated  in  European  Union  during  the  period  covered  by  this  report  as 
estimated  from  customer  supply  records  seems  to  be  around  280.  As  the  company’s  expert  pointed 
out,  clinical  experience  remains  limited  because  the  patient  population  is  very  small.  The  CPMP 
requested the set up of a patient database based on the voluntary return of pre-defined treatment forms 
completed  by  the  treating  physician.  At  the  end  of  June  1998,  a  total  of  133  forms  were  collected. 
They relate to a total  of  95  patients.  Nothing  unexpected  has  been identified in terms of efficacy or 
safety, but some relevant trends can be identified in terms of type of treatment: 
• 
• 
The  total  daily  dose  varied  from  11  to  80  mg/kg/d  (mean  42±14  mg/kg/d).  While  the 
recommended  dose  is  50  mg/kg/d  in  4  doses  per  day  for  children  under  12  years  and  2g/d  in  
4 doses per day for children older than 12 years. 
The number of doses per day was 4 (or more) in only 60% of the patients. 
In view of the lack of adherence to the recommended dose, it is not surprising that putative markers of 
efficacy, such as white blood cells cystine levels, the marker recommended in the SPC, do not reach 
the target values. (These are available only for 46 patients.) 
The  CPMP  still  thinks  that  keeping  a  systematic  database  of  the  treated  patients  is  useful  and  will 
provide  relevant  data  that  could  not  be  obtained  otherwise  in  a  drug/disease  of  this  type.  The  data 
9/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
already obtained on lack of adherence to the recommended therapy prove it. The small change in the 
follow-up forms themselves proposed by the company (to state the kidney transplantation status of the 
patient) is useful and acceptable. The CPMP welcomed the company’s suggestion to send prescribers 
a  letter  in  order  to  explain  the  usefulness  of  the  patient  follow-up  forms,  which  should  improve 
compliance.  The  company  should  also  comment  in  the  next  PSUR  the  inter-laboratory  variations  in 
the method of measurement of cystine white cells levels. 
Two periodic safety update reports have been provided covering the period from 1 September 1996 to 
30  June  1998.  In  general,  the  reported  adverse  reactions  were  already  included  in  the  SPC  and  no 
further action  in this respect was  deemed necessary apart from slightly  changing the  wording of the 
overdose section, following the report of a progressive lethargy related to the overdose of cysteamine. 
The company’s expert draws the attention to a recently published paper on the effects of cysteamine 
(HCI or plosphocysteamine, not Cystagon which is cysteamine bitartrate) on gastric acid output and 
serum  gastrin  levels.  Cysteamine  increased  acid  output  and  serum  gastrin  levels,  and  inflammation 
was observed in two subjects (duodenal mucosa in one case, gastric mucosa in the other). The expert 
suggests  that  the  increased  gastric  acid  output  could  be  buffered  by  food  and  recommends  that 
cysteamine  should  always  be  administered  with  food.  In  the  current  summary  of  product 
characteristics,  there  is  no  general  recommendation  in  relation  to  food  is  given  apart  in  children  of  
6 years of age or under. The company should discuss the convenience to recommend giving Cystagon 
with food. 
The  CPMP  recommend  that  the  marketing  authorisation  remains  under  exceptional  circumstances. 
The  CPMP  agreed  however  to  revise  the  list  of  specific  obligations  and  follow-up  measures  to  be 
fulfilled by the marketing authorisation holder. 
Second Annual Reassessment 
Pharmacokinetic data: 
The  submission  of  the  expected  pharmacokinetic  study  has  been  delayed  due  to  various  aspects 
including a slower recruitment of patients than expected. Nevertheless, the results should be submitted 
by  end  1999.Results  of  a  comparative  bioavailability  study  evaluating  three  cysteamine  derivatives 
(hydrochloride,  bitartrate  and  phosphocysteamine)  have  been  published  in  1999.  No  statistical 
difference was found between relative bioavailabilities, AUC (0, ∞), Cmax and Tmax with each of the 
three salts of cysteamine tested. 
Clinical data: 
The approval of Cystagon by the CPMP was conditioned to a post-approval follow-up program, based 
on the collection of periodical clinical record forms from the treating physicians. Due to the limited 
number  of  clinical  forms  collected  during  the  first  year,  the  MA  Holder  was  requested  to  make  an 
effort in collecting these clinical forms. 
The number of clinical forms collected has increased at the end of 1998; clinical forms were collected 
from around 52% (versus only one-third of the treated patients previously) but the MA Holder should 
continue to encourage doctors to fill in the forms. The importance of collecting such data with every 
drug supply visit is recalled. 
Following assessment of first annual re-assessment, the CPMP requested the Marketing Authorisation 
to discuss the convenience to recommend giving Cystagon with food. Two six-month Periodic Safety 
Update  Report  were  assessed  since  the  First  Annual  Reassessment.  The  majority  of  the  reported 
adverse  reactions  was  already  included  in  the  SPC  and  did  not  change  the  benefit-risk  ratio  of  the 
medicinal  product.  A  case  of  overdose  with  progressive  lethargy  was  reported  in  the  second  PSUR 
(see  First  Annual  Reassessment).  A  type  II  variation  was  therefore  requested  by  the  CPMP  to 
accordingly update the section of the SPC. The Marketing Authorisation Holder fulfilled this request 
and applied in the same time to add that Cystagon is better tolerated if taken after or with food. 
Based on this data, the CPMP recommends that the marketing authorisation remains under exceptional 
circumstances.  The  CPMP  agreed  however  to  revise  the  list  of  specific  obligations  and  follow-up 
measures to be fulfilled by the marketing authorisation holder. 
10/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
5.   Conclusion 
The pharmaceutical dossier has mostly been made with already published data concerning cysteamine 
either as hydrochloride or phosphocysteamine or cysteamine bitartrate. Information on the major parts 
of the objections raised was provided. However, the question on impurity profile is not yet completely 
answered. Definite conclusions regarding the quality of the active substance will only be possible after 
submission and assessment of the report on the impurity profile study by Gas Chromatography/Mass 
Spectrometry. 
The  preclinical  dossier  is  insufficient  referring  mainly  to  old  bibliographical  data  on  cysteamine  as 
hydrochloride which are not up to current standards. There are toxicity data in only one species over a 
limited  period  of  time.  Genotoxicity  data  are  insufficient  but  an  in  vitro  clastogenic  effect  was 
demonstrated. Reproduction studies do not allow concluding on teratogenicity potential. Toxicological 
studies  to  determine  the  mutagenicity  and  genotoxicity  were  provided  as  part  of  the  specific 
obligations. The results have been considered satisfactory and a type II variation has been submitted in 
order to accordingly update the SPC. 
The  clinical  dossier  included  data  demonstrating  efficacy  of  cysteamine  as  hydrochloride  and  as 
phosphocysteamine  to  prevent  degradation  of  renal  function,  improving  survival  and  growth  rate  in 
patients with cystinosis. More information on the possible long-term safety will be provided through 
the analysis of information gathered from a register of treated patients. 
Despite  the  deficiencies  in  the  documentation  provided  and  considering  the  favourable  benefit/risk 
ratio  for  this  potentially  effective  drug  intended  for  a  fatal  and  very  rare  disease,  a  marketing 
authorisation should be granted for this medicinal product under exceptional circumstances. 
The indication is the following:  
Cystagon is indicated for the treatment of proven nephropathic cystinosis. Cysteamine reduces cystine 
accumulation in some cells (e.g. leukocytes, muscle and liver cells) of nephropathic cystinosis patients 
and, when treatment is started early, it delays the development of renal failure. 
Cystagon  treatment  should  be  initiated  under  the  supervision  of  a  physician  experienced  in  the 
treatment of cystinosis. 
Since the Marketing Authorisation, in the view of additional data provided, the CPMP considered that 
the  benefit/risk  profile  of  cysteamine  remained  favourable  and  that  the  Marketing  Authorisation 
remains under exceptional circumstances. 
11/11 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
