EMA/704352/2016  
EMEA/H/C/000678 
EPAR summary for the public 
Cystadane 
betaine anhydrous 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Cystadane. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Cystadane. 
For practical information about using Cystadane, patients should read the package leaflet or contact 
their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Cystadane and what is it used for? 
Cystadane is a medicine used to treat homocystinuria, an inherited disease where the amino acid 
homocysteine cannot be broken down and therefore builds up in the body. This causes a wide range of 
symptoms, including impaired vision, weak bones and circulatory problems.  
It is used with other treatments, such as vitamin B6 (pyridoxine), vitamin B12 (cobalamin), folate and 
a special diet. 
Cystadane contains the active substance betaine anhydrous.  
Because the number of patients with homocystinuria is low, the disease is considered ‘rare’, and 
Cystadane was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 9 July 2001. 
How is Cystadane used? 
Treatment with Cystadane should be supervised by a doctor who has experience in the treatment of 
patients with homocystinuria. 
Cystadane is available as a powder to be taken by mouth. The standard dose of Cystadane is 100 mg 
per kilogram of body weight a day, divided into two equal doses. The dose can be adjusted depending 
on the response to treatment (monitored by measuring the level of homocysteine in the blood). The 
aim of the treatment is to keep blood levels of homocysteine below 15 micromoles or as low as 
possible. This is usually achieved within a month. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Cystadane is supplied with 3 measuring spoons to measure 100 mg, 150 mg and 1 g of the powder. It 
should be dissolved fully in water, juice, milk, formula or food immediately before being taken. 
How does Cystadane work? 
Betaine is a natural substance that is extracted from sugar beet. In homocystinuria, betaine reduces 
homocysteine levels in the blood by transforming homocysteine into the amino acid methionine. This 
helps to improve the symptoms of the disease. 
What benefits of Cystadane have been shown in studies? 
The company presented information on Cystadane from the scientific literature. This included 202 
reports that described the effects of Cystadane, given at a variety of doses, on homocysteine levels in 
homocystinuria patients of various ages. For 140 patients, information was also provided on their 
symptoms, the dose and duration of treatment, and other medicines being taken. Most patients were 
also taking vitamins B6 or B12, or folate. The information from these studies was compared to 
published reports describing the outcome of untreated patients with the disease. 
Patients taking Cystadane appeared to have greater reductions in homocysteine levels than untreated 
patients. This was associated with an improvement in symptoms affecting the cardiovascular system 
(heart and blood vessels) as well as an improvement in developmental problems in around three 
quarters of the patients taking Cystadane. The medicine was effective in patients with all three types of 
homocystinuria. 
What are the risks associated with Cystadane? 
The most common side effect when taking Cystadane (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) is elevated 
levels of methionine in the blood. Methionine levels should be monitored in patients taking Cystadane, 
as it might lead to cerebral oedema (swelling in the brain). Patients with symptoms of cerebral 
oedema, such as morning headaches with vomiting, or changes in vision, should speak to their doctor, 
as treatment with Cystadane may have to be interrupted.  
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Cystadane approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that, although there 
were few systematic studies of Cystadane, the medicine is useful when added to existing treatments 
for homocystinuria, such as vitamin supplementation and using a special diet. The Committee noted 
that Cystadane is not a substitute for other treatments. 
The Committee decided that Cystadane’s benefits outweighed its risks in the adjunctive treatment of 
homocystinuria, when it is used according to its indication. It recommended that Cystadane be given 
marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Cystadane? 
The company that makes Cystadane will set up a register of patients taking the medicine to monitor its 
safety. In particular, the company will monitor cases of cerebral oedema, which was seen in a small 
number of patients during the testing of the medicine. 
Cystadane  
EMA/704352/2016 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Cystadane have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
Other information about Cystadane 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Cystadane on 15 February 2007. 
The full EPAR for Cystadane can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Cystadane, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Cystadane can be 
found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease 
designation. 
This summary was last updated in 10-2016 
Cystadane  
EMA/704352/2016 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
