EMA/162570/2023
EMEA/H/C/005639
Dabigatran Etexilate Accord (dabigatran etexilate)
An overview of Dabigatran Etexilate Accord and why it is authorised in the EU
What is Dabigatran Etexilate Accord and what is it used for?
Dabigatran Etexilate Accord is an anticoagulant medicine used for:



preventing the formation of blood clots in the veins in adults who have had an operation to replace
a hip or knee;
preventing  stroke  (caused  by  a  blood  clot  in  the  brain)  and  systemic  embolism  (a  blood  clot  in
another organ) in adults who have an abnormal heartbeat called ‘non-valvular atrial fibrillation’ and
are considered to be at risk of stroke;
treating deep vein thrombosis (DVT, a blood clot in a deep vein, usually in the leg) and pulmonary
embolism (PE, a clot in a blood vessel supplying the lungs) in adults, and preventing these conditions
from occurring again.

treating blood clots in veins and preventing them from occurring again in children.
Dabigatran Etexilate Accord is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Dabigatran Etexilate Accord 
contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already 
authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for Dabigatran Etexilate Accord is Pradaxa. For more 
information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here.
Dabigatran Etexilate Accord contains the active substance dabigatran etexilate.
How is Dabigatran Etexilate Accord used?
Dabigatran Etexilate Accord is available as capsules for adults and children above 8 years of age. The 
medicine is to be taken by the mouth once or twice a day, and the duration of treatment and the dose 
depend on the condition the medicine is being used to treat or prevent and other medicines the patient 
is taking.
In all patients, kidney function should be assessed before starting treatment to exclude patients with 
severely reduced kidney function, and should be re-assessed during treatment if any worsening is 
suspected. When Dabigatran Etexilate Accord is used long term in patients with non-valvular atrial 
fibrillation, or when it is used in patients with DVT or PE, kidney function should be assessed at least 
once a year if their kidney function is mildly to moderately reduced or if they are over 75 years old.
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription.
For more information about using Dabigatran Etexilate Accord, see the package leaflet or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist.
How does Dabigatran Etexilate Accord work?
The active substance in Dabigatran Etexilate Accord, dabigatran etexilate, is a ‘prodrug’ of dabigatran. 
This means that it is converted into dabigatran in the body. Dabigatran is an anticoagulant, meaning 
that it prevents the blood from coagulating (clotting). It blocks a substance called thrombin, which is 
central to the process of blood clotting.
How has Dabigatran Etexilate Accord been studied?
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Pradaxa, and do not need to be repeated for Dabigatran 
Etexilate Accord. 
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Dabigatran Etexilate Accord. 
The company also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. 
Two medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the 
body and are therefore expected to have the same effect.
What are the benefits and risks of Dabigatran Etexilate Accord?
Because Dabigatran Etexilate Accord is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference 
medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s.
For the list of side effects and restrictions with Dabigatran Etexilate Accord, see the package leaflet.
Why is Dabigatran Etexilate Accord authorised in the EU?
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Dabigatran 
Etexilate Accord has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Pradaxa. 
Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Pradaxa, the benefits of Dabigatran Etexilate Accord 
outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU.
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Dabigatran Etexilate Accord?
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Dabigatran Etexilate Accord have been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet.
As for all medicines, data on the use of Dabigatran Etexilate Accord are continuously monitored. 
Suspected side effects reported with Dabigatran Etexilate Accord are carefully evaluated and any 
necessary action taken to protect patients.
Other information about Dabigatran Etexilate Accord
Dabigatran Etexilate Accord received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 May 
2023.
Dabigatran Etexilate Accord (dabigatran etexilate) 
EMA/245752/2023 
Page 2/3
Further information on Dabigatran Etexilate Accord can be found on the Agency’s website: 
www.ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/dabigatran-etexilate-accord. Information on the 
reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website.
This overview was last updated in 05-2023.
Dabigatran Etexilate Accord (dabigatran etexilate) 
EMA/245752/2023 
Page 3/3
