Summary of risk management plan for Dabigatran Accord 75/110/150 mg 
hard capsules (Dabigatran etexilate) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Dabigatran Accord 75/110/150 mg hard 
capsules. The RMP details important risks of Dabigatran Accord 75/110/150 mg hard capsules, 
how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Dabigatran 
Accord 75/110/150 mg hard capsules risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Dabigatran Accord 75/110/150 mg hard capsules summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and 
its  package  leaflet  give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how 
Dabigatran Accord 75/110/150 mg hard capsules should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Dabigatran Accord 75/110/150 mg hard capsules should be read in 
the context of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-
language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Dabigatran 
Accord 75/110/150 mg hard capsules RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Dabigatran Accord 75/110/150 mg hard capsules are indicated for following indications: 
Dabigatran Accord 75 mg hard capsules: 
Primary  prevention  of  venous  thromboembolic  events  in  adult  patients  who  have  undergone 
elective total hip replacement surgery or total knee replacement surgery. 
Treatment of VTE and prevention of recurrent VTE in paediatric patients from birth to less than 18 
years of age. 
Dabigatran Accord 110 mg hard capsules: 
•  Primary prevention of venous thromboembolic events in adult patients who have undergone 
elective total hip replacement surgery or total knee replacement surgery. 
•  Prevention  of  stroke  and  systemic  embolism  in  adult  patients  with  non-valvular  atrial 
fibrillation (NVAF), with one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischemic 
attack (TIA); age ≥ 75 years; heart failure (NYHA Class ≥ II); diabetes mellitus; hypertension. 
 
 
 
•  Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of 
recurrent DVT and PE in adults 
•  Treatment of VTE and prevention of recurrent VTE in paediatric patients from birth to less than 
18 years of age. 
Dabigatran Accord 150 mg hard capsules: 
•  Prevention  of  stroke  and  systemic  embolism  in  adult  patients  with  non-valvular  atrial 
fibrillation (NVAF), with one or more risk factors, such as prior stroke or transient ischemic 
attack (TIA); age ≥ 75 years; heart failure (NYHA Class ≥ II); diabetes mellitus; hypertension. 
•  Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of 
recurrent DVT and PE in adults  
•  Treatment  of  venous  thromboembolic  events  (VTE)  and  prevention  of  recurrent  VTE  in 
paediatric patients from birth to less than 18 years of age. 
It contains Dabigatran etexilate as the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Dabigatran  Accord  75/110/150  mg  hard  capsules’ 
benefits can be found in Dabigatran Accord 75/110/150 mg hard capsules’ EPAR, including in its 
plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the  medicine’s  webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/dabigatran-etexilate-accord. 
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
II. 
the risks 
Important  risks  of  Dabigatran  Accord  75/110/150  mg  hard  capsules,  together  with  measures  to 
minimise  such  risks  and  the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more  about  Dabigatran  Accord 
75/110/150 mg hard capsules risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In the case of Dabigatran Accord 75/110/150 mg hard capsules, these measures are supplemented 
with additional risk minimisation measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below.  
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed including signal management activity, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Dabigatran Accord 75/110/150 mg hard 
capsules is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Dabigatran Accord 75/110/150 mg hard capsules are risks that need special risk 
management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can 
be  safely  taken.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Dabigatran Accord 75/110/150 
mg hard capsules. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine 
is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs 
further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product 
that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Important identified risks 
•  Haemorrhage 
•  Gastrointestinal disorders 
•  Hypersensitivity 
•  Off-label use in patients with prosthetic heart valves 
 
•  Off-label use in patients with severe renal impairment 
Important potential risks 
•  Hepatotoxicity 
•  Myocardial infarction 
•  Pulmonary embolism 
Missing Information 
•  Patients  with  liver  impairment  (liver  enzymes  >  2  × 
upper limit of normal) 
•  Pregnant and lactating women 
II.B 
Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
Important Identified Risks: Haemorrhage 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Sections 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.8, 4.9 and 5.1 of Dabigatran 
SmPC  and  corresponding  sections  of  PIL  have 
information on this safety concern. 
Other  routine  risk  minimisation  measures  include; 
the labelling and the prescription only status of the 
product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  Prescriber guide 
•  Patient alert card 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
Dabigatran Accord 75/110/150 mg hard capsules. 
 
 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There  are  no  studies  required  Dabigatran  Accord  75/110/150  mg  hard  capsules  as  post-
authorisation development plan. 
