Summary  of Risk Management Plan for DACOGEN (decitabine) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  DACOGEN.  The  RMP  details 
important  risks of DACOGEN, how these risks can be minimised,  and how more information  will 
be obtained  about DACOGEN’s risks and uncertainties  (missing  information). 
DACOGEN's summary  of product  characteristics  (SmPC) and  its  package leaflet  give  essential 
information  to healthcare professionals  and patients on how DACOGEN should  be used.  
I. 
The Medicine and What  it is Used For 
DACOGEN is authorised  for acute myeloid  leukemia  (AML). It contains  decitabine  as the active 
substance and it  is administered  intravenously.  The standard  treatment for patients  with  AML is 
chemotherapy,  usually  with  a  drug  called  cytarabine  and  another  type  of  drug  known  as  an 
anthracycline.  The aim of treatment is to produce a remission  (where the disease no longer appears 
to be active) followed  by more treatment and possibly  a stem cell  transplant  (which may  be able 
to cure the disease). The standard  treatment for patients  with  AML who  are not  suitable  for  the 
usual chemotherapy aims to control  the disease as best as possible  and keep the patient comfortable 
(palliative  treatment;  supportive  care). In  this  latter  population,  DACOGEN  has been shown  to 
improve  outcomes  compared  with  cytarabine  or best  supportive  care. (see  SmPC  for  the  full 
indication).   
Further information  about the evaluation  of DACOGEN’s benefits can be found in  DACOGEN’s 
European public  assessment report (EPAR), including  in its plain-language  summary,  available  on 
the European Medicines  Agency (EMA) website, under the medicine’s  webpage. 
II. 
Risks Associated  with  the Medicine and Activities  to Minimise or 
Further Characterise the Risks 
Important  risks of DACOGEN,  together  with  measures to minimise  such risks  and the proposed 
studies for learning  more about DACOGEN's risks,  are outlined  below. 
Measures to minimise  the risks identified  for medicinal  products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such as warnings,  precautions,  and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important  advice on the medicine’s  packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised  pack size  — the amount  of medicine  in  a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine  is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s  legal status — the way a medicine  is supplied  to the patient (eg, with or without 
prescription)  can help  to minimise  its risks. 
Together,  these measures constitute  routine  risk minimisation  measures. 
In addition  to these measures, information  about  adverse reactions is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed including  Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute  routine  pharmacovigilance  activities.   
If important  information  that may affect the safe use of DACOGEN is not yet available,  it is listed 
under ‘missing  information’  below. 
II.A. 
List of Important  Risks  and Missing Information 
Important  risks  of DACOGEN  are risks  that need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important  risks  can be regarded as identified  or potential.  Identified  risks  are concerns for which 
there is sufficient  proof of a link  with the use of DACOGEN. Potential  risks are concerns for which 
an association  with the use of this medicine  is possible  based on available  data, but this association 
has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be 
collected  (eg, on the long-term  use of the medicine); 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
None 
Missing information 
Use in severe renal impairment 
Use in hepatic impairment 
Use in severe cardiac disease (eg, uncontrolled angina or severe congestive heart 
failure [NYHA III-IV]) 
II.B. 
Summary  of Important  Risks 
Important Missing Information: Use in Severe Renal Impairment 
Risk minimisation  measures 
Routine risk minimisation  measures: 
•  SmPC Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2 
•  PL Section 2 
•  Recommendation  to  exercise  caution  when  treating  patients 
with  severe  renal  impairment  and  to  monitor  them  closely 
(SmPC Section 4.4) 
•  Patients are advised to notify their doctor, pharmacist and nurse 
before using DACOGEN in case of serious kidney disorder (PL 
Section 2) 
•  Medicinal  product subject to restricted medical prescription 
Additional  risk minimisation  measures: 
•  None 
 
 
 
 
Important Missing Information: Use in Hepatic Impairment 
Risk minimisation  measures 
Routine risk minimisation  measures: 
•  SmPC Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2 
•  PL Section 2 
•  Recommendation  to  exercise  caution  when  treating  patients 
with hepatic  impairment  and  to monitor  them closely  (SmPC 
Section 4.4) 
•  Patients are advised to notify their doctor, pharmacist and nurse 
before  using  DACOGEN  in  case  of  liver  disorder  (PL 
Section 2) 
•  Medicinal  product subject to restricted medical prescription 
Additional  risk minimisation  measures: 
•  None 
Important Missing Information: Use in severe cardiac disease (eg, uncontrolled angina or severe 
congestive heart failure, New York Heart Association Grades III-IV (NYHA III-IV) 
Risk minimisation  measures 
Routine risk minimisation  measures: 
•  SmPC Section 4.4 
•  PL Section 2 
•  Patients are advised to notify their doctor, pharmacist and nurse 
before  using  DACOGEN  in  case  of  heart  disorder  (PL 
Section 2) 
•  Medicinal  product subject to restricted medical prescription 
Additional  risk minimisation  measures: 
•  None 
II.C. 
Post-Authorisation  Development Plan 
II.C.1. 
Studies Which  are Conditions  of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies that are conditions  of the marketing  authorization. 
There are no studies  which are conditions  of the marketing  authorisation  or specific  obligation  of 
DACOGEN. 
II.C.2. 
Other Studies in Post-authorisation  Development Plan 
There are no studies required  for DACOGEN. 
 
 
 
