28 January 2021 
EMA/230662/2021 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): decitabine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00009118/202005 
Period covered by the PSUR: 2 May 2018 – 1 May 2020 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for decitabine, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
1/ Differentiation syndrome 
Following a Tracked Safety Issue created by FDA in February 2019 which led to an update of the US 
product information, the MAH performed a cumulative review of cases of differentiation syndrome with 
decitabine including cases reported in the safety database, literature data and disproportionality 
analysis. Overall, 3 cases reporting at least 3 criteria for differentiation syndrome have been identified. 
Moreover, among these 3 cases, 2 case reports published in the literature provided evidence of a 
possible causal association with decitabine administration.  
Furthermore, there is a biological plausibility for this differentiation syndrome as decitabine is a DNA-
hypomethylating agent that induces differentiation and apoptosis of leukemic cells, and differentiation 
syndrome typically occurs during induction therapy with differentiating agents while leukemic blasts 
are massively present.  
In view of available data on differentiation syndrome from the literature and spontaneous reports and 
taking into account the plausible mechanism of action, the PRAC considers a causal relationship 
between decitabine and differentiation syndrome is at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC 
concluded that the product information of products containing decitabine should be amended 
accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for decitabine the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing decitabine is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/230662/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
