15 December  
EMA/51858/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the 
marketing authorisation 
Active substance: decitabine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00009118/201605 
Period covered by the PSUR: 2 May 2015 to 1 May 2016 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for decitabine, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
The cumulative review on interstitial lung disease retrieved 3 cases of organising pneumonitis where 
a causal relationship with decitabine could not be excluded considering a compatible chronology of 
event onset, absence of alternative origin identified, and diagnosis confirmed by biopsy. In addition, 
the cumulative review identified 6 cases of interstitial lung disease (ILD) (broad term) of concerns. 
Based on this review and considering the events seriousness, the PRAC considered that the product 
information should be updated to add a warning on interstitial lung disease (including pulmonary 
infiltrates, organising pneumonia and pulmonary fibrosis). Careful assessment of patients with an 
acute onset or unexplained worsening of pulmonary symptoms should be performed to exclude ILD. 
If ILD is confirmed, appropriate treatment should be initiated. In addition, ILD (including pulmonary 
infiltrates, organising pneumonia and pulmonary fibrosis) should also be added in the description of 
selected adverse reactions of the summary of product characteristics and ILD should be added as an 
adverse reaction with a frequency not known.  
Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR, the PRAC considered that changes to 
the product information of medicinal products containing decitabine were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for decitabine the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing decitabine is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
EMA/51858/2017  
Page 2/2 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
