EMA/288287/2015  
EMEA/H/C/000776 
EPAR summary for the public 
Dafiro 
amlodipine / valsartan 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Dafiro. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Dafiro. 
What is Dafiro? 
Dafiro is a medicine that contains two active substances, amlodipine and valsartan. It is available as 
tablets (5 mg amlodipine and 80 mg valsartan; 5 mg amlodipine and 160 mg valsartan; 10 mg 
amlodipine and 160 mg valsartan). 
What is Dafiro used for? 
Dafiro is used in patients who have essential hypertension (high blood pressure) that is not adequately 
controlled on either amlodipine or valsartan taken alone. ‘Essential’ means that the hypertension has 
no obvious cause. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription 
How is Dafiro used? 
Dafiro is taken by mouth as one tablet once a day with some water. The dose of Dafiro to be used 
depends on the doses of amlodipine or valsartan that the patient was taking before. The patient may 
need to take separate tablets or capsules before switching to the combination tablet.  
How does Dafiro work? 
Dafiro contains two active substances, amlodipine and valsartan. Both are anti-hypertensive medicines 
that have been available separately in the European Union (EU) since the mid-1990s. They work in 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
similar ways to reduce blood pressure by allowing the blood vessels to relax. By lowering the blood 
pressure, the risks associated with high blood pressure, such as having a stroke, are reduced. 
Amlodipine is a calcium channel blocker. It blocks special channels on the surface of cells called 
calcium channels, through which calcium ions normally enter the cells. When calcium ions enter the 
cells in the muscles of blood vessel walls, this causes contraction. By reducing the flow of calcium into 
the cells, amlodipine prevents the cells from contracting and this helps the blood vessels to relax. 
Valsartan is an ‘angiotensin II receptor antagonist’, which means that it blocks the action of a hormone 
in the body called angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a powerful vasoconstrictor (a substance that 
narrows blood vessels). By blocking the receptors to which angiotensin II normally attaches, valsartan 
stops the hormone having an effect, allowing the blood vessels to widen. 
How has Dafiro been studied? 
Because amlodipine and valsartan have been used for many years, the company presented information 
on the two substances from earlier studies and the scientific literature, as well as new studies that 
used a combination of the two active substances. 
Five main studies involving nearly 5,200 patients, mostly with mild to moderate hypertension, were 
carried out. Two studies (involving almost 3,200 patients) compared amlodipine, valsartan or a 
combination of both substances with placebo (a dummy treatment). Two studies (involving 1,891 
patients) compared the combination in patients whose hypertension was not adequately controlled with 
either 10 mg amlodipine or 160 mg valsartan. The fifth, smaller study compared the combination with 
lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide (another combination used to treat hypertension) in 130 patients 
with severe hypertension. In all studies, the main measure of effectiveness was the reduction in 
diastolic blood pressure (the blood pressure measured between two heartbeats). The blood pressure 
was measured in ‘millimetres of mercury’ (mmHg). 
The company also presented evidence that the levels of amlodipine and valsartan in the blood were the 
same in people taking Dafiro and people taking the separate medicines. 
What benefit has Dafiro shown during the studies? 
The combination of amlodipine and valsartan was more effective at reducing blood pressure than 
placebo or either valsartan or amlodipine taken alone. In the studies comparing the combination in 
patients who were already taking either amlodipine or valsartan, the blood pressure in patients taking 
valsartan alone had fallen by 6.6 mmHg after eight weeks, compared with 9.6 and 11.4 mmHg in the 
patients adding 5 or 10 mg amlodipine, respectively. Patients taking amlodipine alone had a fall of 
10.0 mmHg, compared with 11.8 mmHg in the patients adding 160 mg valsartan. 
What is the risk associated with Dafiro? 
The most common side effects with Dafiro (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are headache, 
nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and throat), influenza (flu), hypokalaemia (low blood 
potassium levels), various types of oedema (swelling), fatigue (tiredness), flushing (reddening), 
asthenia (weakness) and hot flushes. For the full list of all side effects reported with Dafiro, see the 
package leaflet. 
Dafiro must not be used in patients who are hypersensitive (allergic) to amlodipine or other medicines 
in the ‘dihydropyridine derivatives’ class, to valsartan, or to any of the other ingredients. It must not 
Dafiro  
EMA/288287/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
be used in women who are more than three months pregnant. Its use during the first three months of 
pregnancy is not recommended. Dafiro must not be used in patients who have severe liver or bile 
problems, patients with certain heart problems and patients with severe hypotension (low blood 
pressure). Dafiro must also not be used in combination with aliskiren-containing medicines (also used 
to treat essential hypertension) in patients with type 2 diabetes or in patients with moderate or severe 
kidney impairment. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Dafiro been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Dafiro’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Dafiro 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Dafiro on 16 
January 2007. 
The full EPAR for Dafiro can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Dafiro, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 05-2015.  
Dafiro  
EMA/288287/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
