SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1.  Introduction 
The proper management and control of blood pressure in hypertension patients, and the impact it has 
on  associated  morbidity  and  mortality  rates,  has  been  the  focus  of  many  new  hypertension 
observational  studies  and  clinical  trials.  These  trials  have  demonstrated  that  more  aggressive  blood 
pressure lowering will reduce the complications associated with hypertension. As a result of this data, 
international guidelines for the management of hypertension now recommend a target blood pressure 
of <140/90 mmHg for most hypertensive patients, with even a lower blood pressure goal of <130/80 
mmHg for high-risk patient populations such as patients with target organ damage, diabetes or renal 
disease. Despite the availability of many newer antihypertensive agents, hypertensive patients remain 
at  higher  risk  of  premature  death  than  the  general  population.  This  persistence  of  morbidity  and 
mortality may be  accounted for by the frequent failure to achieve adequate blood pressure  reduction 
despite  an  extensive  array  of  available  antihypertensive  agents.  Such  considerations  have  led  to 
reassessment  of  the  potential  role  of  fixed-dose  combination  agents  in  the  antihypertensive 
armamentarium.  The  rationale  for  combination  therapy  relates  to  the  concept  that  antihypertensive 
efficacy  may  be  enhanced  when  2  classes  of  agents  are  combined.  In  addition,  combination  therapy 
may enhance tolerability: first of the active substance of a fixed combination can antagonize some of 
the  adverse  effects  of  the  second  one.  Fixed-dose  combination  therapy  simplifies  the  treatment 
regimen, may prevent treatment failures that might result from missed doses. It has been recognized in 
the  2003  European  Society  of  Hypertension-European  Society  of  Cardiology  guidelines  for  the 
management  of  arterial  hypertension  that  one  of  the  rational  combinations  is  the  combination  of  a 
renin-angiotensin system antagonist, such as an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or an 
angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB), with a calcium channel blocker (CCB). Both ACE inhibitors and 
CCBs  lower  blood  pressure  by  reducing  peripheral  resistance,  but  calcium  influx  blockade  and 
reduction  of  angiotensin  II  vasoconstriction  are  complimentary  mechanisms.  The  edema  induced  by 
dihydropyridine  CCBs  results  from  the  increased  capillary  hydrostatic  pressure  from  pre-capillary 
vasodilatation. ACE inhibitors produce postcapillary vasodilatation thereby normalizing transcapillary 
pressure and reducing edema. The same mechanism of action of angiotensin receptor blockade would 
be  expected  to  produce  similar  effects.  Support  for  the  rationale  of  the  combination  of  a  renin-
angiotensin  system  antagonist  and  a  CCB  comes  from  the  recently  completed  Anglo-Scandinavian 
Cardiac Outcomes Trial-Blood Pressure Lowering Arm (ASCOT-BPLA). In this trial in hypertensive 
patients  with  at  least  three  cardiovascular  risk  factors,  the  CCB-based  regimen  of  amlodipine  and 
perindopril  produced  reductions  in  the  risk  of  stroke  by  23%,  total  cardiovascular  events  and 
procedures by 16%, all-cause mortality by 11%, and development of diabetes by 30% compared to a 
beta-blocker-based regimen of atenolol and bendroflumethiazide (Dahlof, et al (2005)). Valsartan, an 
orally  active  angiotensin  II  receptor  blocker  (ARB),  was  first  developed  for  the  treatment  of 
hypertension and was approved for this use alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents 
in once daily doses of 80 mg – 320 mg in the United States and 80 mg-160 mg in Europe and many 
other countries. It has been marketed for hypertension as monotherapy since 1996 and in combination 
with hydrochlorothiazide since 1997. Subsequently, valsartan has also been approved for the treatment 
of patients with chronic heart failure and patients with post-myocardial infarction in many countries. 
As  described  in  the  original  valsartan  monotherapy  submission,  adverse  experiences  have  generally 
been mild and transient in nature and only infrequently require discontinuation of therapy. The overall 
incidence of adverse experiences with valsartan is similar to placebo. The most common reasons for 
discontinuation of therapy with valsartan are headache and dizziness. Amlodipine, a dihydropyridine 
calcium  channel  blocker  (DHP-CCB),  is  approved  for  the  treatment  of  hypertension,  angina,  and  in 
some countries angiographically documented coronary artery disease and is available in doses of 5 and 
10 mg and in some countries in a 2.5 mg dose for once daily administration. Amlodipine administered 
as monotherapy is generally well tolerated at doses up to 10 mg daily. Some of the more common side 
effects of dihydropyridine CCBs, including amlodipine, based on their pharmacologic site of action, 
include  headache,  and  other  dose  dependent  effects  such  as  edema,  dizziness,  flushing,  and 
palpitations. 
©EMEA 2007 
1/2929291 
 
 
 
 
 
This  is  the  application  for  Dafiro,  a  fixed  dose  combination  (FCP)  of  amlodipine  besylate  and 
valsartan  in  the  strengths  of  5  mg/80  mg,  5  mg/160  mg,  10  mg/160  mg  using  the  centralised 
procedure.  Approved  product  is  indicated  in  patients  whose  blood  pressure  is  not  adequately 
controlled  on  amlodipine  or  valsartan  monotherapy.  This  is  an  application  for  the  centralised 
procedure.  The  application  is  submitted  in  accordance  with  article  10  b  (fixed  combination 
application) in Directive 2001/83/EC. The complementary mechanisms of an ARB and DHP-CCB are 
expected to provide superior antihypertensive efficacy as compared to the respective monotherapies. 
2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Dafiro is a fixed combination containing two active substances: amlodipine (as the besilate salt) and 
valsartan and is presented as film-coated tablets. The tablets contain 5/80 mg, 5/160 mg or 10/160 mg 
of amlodipine and valsartan respectively. It is packaged in PVC/PVDC blister packs or PA/AL/PVC 
blister packs. 
Active Substance  
Amlodipine besilate 
Amlodipine besilate is the INN for the chemical substance 3- Ethyl- 5- methyl (4RS)- 2- [(2- 
aminoethoxy) methyl]- 4- (2- chlorophenyl)- 6- methyl- 1, 4- dihydropyridine- 3, 5- dicarboxylate 
benzenesulphonate (anhydrous substance). The molecular formula is C26H31ClN2O8S  (C20H25ClN2O5 
·C6H5SO3H) and the relative molecular mass 567.06.  A monograph for amlodipine besilate is adopted 
in Ph. Eur. The active substance is well known and has been adequately characterised. It is a white or 
almost white powder. The racemic mixture of R and S isomers is used. It is slightly soluble in water, 
freely soluble in methanol, sparingly soluble in ethanol and slightly soluble in 2-propanol.  The 
compound has 2 pKa’s: 9 and 0.4.  and the distribution coefficient is log Pow=2.76. No solid-state 
polymorphism of amlodipine besilate is described in the literature. 
•  Manufacture 
Two sources of API are used, one with a CEP and one with an ASMF and a CEP.  
•  Specification 
The  satisfactory  quality  of  both  sources  is  generally  ensured  through  the  CEP,  although  additional 
tests  are  also  applied  (e.g.  particle  size  (laser  light  diffraction),  identification  (X-ray  powder 
diffraction), heavy metals (ICP/OES) and residual solvents (GC), specific limits for any impurity other 
than  those  mentioned  in  the  Ph.Eur  monograph).  One  of  the  manufacturers  has  identified  an  extra 
impurity  not  included  in  the  Ph.Eur.  monograph  and  the  proposed  limit  for  this  impurity  has  been 
qualified with reference to toxicological studies, batch analyses and stability data. The proposed limit 
for this impurity has been justified according to the batch analyses and stability data. The results of the 
batch analysis presented for 3 batches purchased from each manufacturer are comparable and comply 
with  the  proposed  specification  that  are  considered  adequate  to  control  the  substance  on  a  routine 
basis. 
•  Stability 
For one of the manufacturers, data for 3 batches stored for 48 months at 25 °C /60 % RH and at 40 °C 
/75 % RH for 6 months in the proposed market packaging were presented. The following parameters 
were  investigated:  appearance,  water,  assay  and  related  substances,  and  results  were  well  within  the 
specification limits and showed no significant changes either in accelerated or in normal conditions.  
The forced degradation light stress testing showed that amlodipine besilate is sensitive to light both as 
powdery  substance  and  in  water  solution,  whereas  confirmatory  stability  testing  study  demonstrated 
that the immediate/ marketing packaging sufficiently protects the active substance from light. 
The re-test period proposed by the manufacturer for amlodipine besilate was considered acceptable if 
stored in well-closed containers, protected from light.  
©EMEA 2007 
2/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For  the  other  manufacturer,  amlodipine  besilate  the  re-test  period  is  not  specified  on  the  CEP. 
Therefore,  the  applicant  will  analyse  the  active  substance  each  time  before  the  production  of  the 
finished product. 
Active Substance  
Valsartan 
The  manufacture,  control  and  stability  of  valsartan  have  already  been  assessed  for  the  original 
authorised medicinal product Diovan. 
 Valsartan  is  the  INN  for  the  chemical  substance  (S)-2-{N-(1-oxopentyl)-N-[[2’-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl)-
[1,1’-biphenyl]-4-yl]methyl]-amino}-3-methyl-butyric  acid.  The  molecular  formula  is  C24H29N5O3 
and the relative molecular mass 435.5. Valsartan is a white to practically white, fine powder, melting 
at 105-110 °C with decomposition. Its solubility in water is 0.18 mg/ml and in 0.1N HCl 0.084 mg/ml.  
There  is  one  chiral  centre  in  the  valine  moiety  of  the  molecule  but  the  pure  (S)-enantiomer  is 
essentially used. The assigned (S)-configuration is defined from the synthetic origin ((L)-valine). 
Its optical activity is [α]D/20 = -67±1° in methanol. X-ray powder analysis rated valsartan samples as 
poorly crystalline. No solid-state polymorphism is known to exist for valsartan. 
•  Manufacture 
The manufacturing route comprises four consecutive synthetic steps and one auxiliary step for reagent 
preparation. Purification is achieved by recrystallisation. Valsartan forms labile "solvate crystals" from 
ethyl  acetate  /cyclohexane,  the  solvent  for  final  purification.  During  the  drying  process  the 
microscopically visible solvate crystals decay to the very fine particle size of the active substance and 
the crystalline properties are mainly lost rendering a poorly crystalline material. 
Alternative  processes  for  some  intermediate  compounds,  which  are  maybe  employed  in  all  sites 
registered to manufacture these compounds, always lead to active substance of equivalent quality.   
Valsartan  is  manufactured  via  a  synthetic  route  introduced  years  ago.  All  starting  materials  are 
commercially available and are well established, and controlled by adequate specifications. 
•  Specification 
Valsartan  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance  (visual  examination),  absorbance  (420 nm)  and 
clarity  of  the  solution  in  methanol,  particle  size  (laser  light  diffraction),  identity  (IR,  HPLC),  R-
enantiomer (HPLC), assay based on anhydrous and solvent-free substance (HPLC, titration), residual 
solvents  (GC),  related  substances  (HPLC),  water  content  (KF),  sulphated  ash,  heavy  metals  (X-ray 
fluorescence) and Microbial Limit Test (plate count method).  
Appropriate justification of the specifications for valsartan has been provided. 
•  Stability 
13 production scale batches have been stored at 25 °C /60 % RH for up to 36 months. In addition 7 of 
these batches have been stored at 30 °C /60 % RH, for up to 9 months and at 40 °C /75 % RH up to 6 
months  in  the  proposed  market  packaging.  In  addition,  another  3  batches  from  an  alternative 
manufacturing site have been stored at 25 °C /60 % RH for 36 months and at 40 °C /75 % RH for 6 
months in the proposed market packaging. 
The  following  parameters  were  investigated:  appearance,  assay  and  related  substances,  specific 
rotation in methanol, clarity of solution in methanol, absorbance and water. 
It can be concluded that valsartan is very stable and is not susceptible to degradation even when stored 
at  elevated  conditions  of  temperature  and  humidity.  All  batches  comply  with  the  proposed 
specification  at  all  storage  conditions.  A  retest  period  of  3  years  without  special  requirements  for 
storage is acceptable. 
©EMEA 2007 
3/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Medicinal Product  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The aim of formulation development was an immediate release tablet combination product that would 
be bioequivalent to the marketed products containing each substance individually.   
The development of Dafiro was highly based upon the formulation and manufacturing process of  the 
already  authorised  valsartan  and  valsartan  /hydrochlorothiazide  film-coated  tablets,  because  of  the 
applicant’s extensive knowledge of these formulations. 
Four  formulations  have  been  developed  2.5/80,  5/80,  5/160  and  10/160.  The  5/80  and  5/160  mg 
formulations, are weight and dose proportional to 10/160 and 2.5/80 mg respectively. The 2.5/80 mg 
formulation  has  not  been  applied  for  in  the  present  application,  but  was  only  used  for  formulation 
development 
A  compatibility  study  was  conducted  using  marketed  valsartan  and  amlodipine  film-coated  tablets, 
which had been ground and mixed. Results from this study demonstrated no significant degradation. 
Stability data confirm these findings. 
The influence of the particle size of both APIs on blend homogeneity and processability has been studied  and 
additional  requirements  for  particle  size  for  both  substances  have  been  setThe  choice  and  function  of  the 
excipients  in  the  formulation  has  been  adequately  described.  The  compatibility  of  the  active 
substances  with  the  excipients  has  been  confirmed.  No  organic  solvents  are  used  for  the  coating 
suspension. All the excipients comply with pharmacopoeial standards.  The tablet film-coating colour 
formulation is a non-functional coating used for colour differentiation and masking the slightly bitter 
taste of valsartan. 
Two  bioequivalence  studies  have  been  performed.  One  study  compared  the  2.5/80  mg  film-coated 
tablets to marketed valsartan 80 mg capsules and amlodipine encapsulated 2.5 mg tablets. The second 
study  compared  the  10/160  mg  film-coated  tablets  to  marketed  valsartan  160  mg  capsules  and  2 
amlodipine  5  mg  over-encapsulated  tablets.  Comparative  dissolution  profiles  between  marketed 
valsartan  capsules,  encapsulated  amlodipine  besilate  tablets  and  the  respective  strengths  of  Dafiro 
tablets used in the bioequivalence studies were shown to be comparable.   
The  composition  of  the  batches  used  for  BE  studies  is  identical  to  the  final  product  except  for  the 
coating. The tablet film-coating color formulations were further optimized for colour differentiation. 
Since  2.5/80  and  10/160  mg  formulation  were  found  to  meet  the  bioequivalence  criteria,  the 
development of these dosage strengths advanced without further modification. 
As far as the 5/80 and 5/160 mg formulations are concerned, these are weight and dose proportional to 
10/160 and 2.5/80 mg formulations. In addition dissolution profiles in three different media (pH 6.8, 
4.5 and 1.0, Ph.Eur. Apparatus II (paddle)) are provided comparing 5/80 mg to 10/160 mg film coated 
tablets and 2.5/80 mg to 5/160 mg film coated tablets. The similarity factor f2 was calculated for each 
combination of tablets. In all media and for both active substances the similarity factor f2 was between 
50  and  100  as  required  by  the  EU  guideline  CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98.  Furthermore,  comparative 
dissolution  profiles  were  presented  between  batches  manufactured  with  amlodipine  obtained  from 
each  of  the  two  suppliers.  Similar  dissolution  profiles  were  seen  with  amlodipine  from  the  two 
suppliers;  in  all  cases  the  similarity  factor  f2  was  within  between  50  and  100  suggesting  similarity. 
Moreover,  the  manufacturing  process  of  the  two  products  is  identical  and  valsartan  and  amlodipine 
exhibit linear and dose proportional pharmacokinetics. This rationale is in line with the criteria set in 
the  NfG  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence  and  based  on  appropriate  data 
provided a bioequivalence surrogate inference for the 5/80 and 5/160 mg strengths was endorsed. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
None of the excipients are of animal or human origin. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
A standard dry granulation technique is employed, comprising the following steps: pre-blending and 
screening,  second  blending,  compaction  and  screening,  of  final  blend  and  compression  and,  finally, 
coating.  
©EMEA 2007 
4/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The manufacturing process has been demonstrated to be robust and to produce a finish product of the 
desired quality within the agreed finished product specification.  
•  Product Specification 
The  specification  for  Dafiro  includes  tests  for:  appearance  (visual  examination),  identification  of 
amlodipine  and  valsartan  (TLC,  HPLC),  identification  of  colourants  (colour  reaction),  mean  tablet 
mass, dissolution (HPLC, UV), degradation products of amlodipine (HPLC); assay for valsartan and 
amlodipine (HPLC), uniformity of dosage units (Ph. Eur), and Microbial limit tests. 
The  specification  has  been  established  after  analyzing  pilot  and  commercial  size  batches  for  all 
strengths  manufactured  with  amlodipine  obtained  from  both  sources.  The  results  comply  with  the 
specification and confirm consistency of the product. 
•  Stability of the Product 
12-months  long-term  and  accelerated  stability  data  of  3  batches  (1  production  and  2  pilot  scale 
batches) of each strength in PVC/PVDC (DPX) blister package have been provided. 
These batches have been stored for 12 months at 25 ºC /60 % RH and at 30 ºC /70 % RH, respectively 
30 °C/75% RH and at 40 ºC /75 % RH for 6 months in the proposed market packaging. The testing at 
25 ºC /60 % RH and at 30 ºC /75 % RH will continue for 36 months.  
Parameters  investigated:  Appearance  (visual  examination),  water  content  (KF),  dissolution  for 
amlodipine and valsartan (HPLC), assay and related substances for amlodipine and valsartan (HPLC) 
and microbial limits testing. 
As expected, results for Dafiro film-coated tablets stored in DPX blisters fail to meet specifications for 
assay, related substances and dissolution when stored at the accelerated storage conditions, but comply 
with the specifications after 12 months on stability under the intermediate storage condition of 30 °C 
/65 % RH as well as under normal conditions. 
In  addition,  one  batch  of  each  strength  stored  at  -20  °C  for  6  months  and  at  50  °C  for  3  months 
remained stable. 
Finally, one batch of each strength was tested at 1.2x106 lux hours and 200 watt/m2 and the product 
was shown to be photostable.  
On the basis of the provided data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SPC 
are acceptable.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substances and medicinal product 
has  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. At the 
time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no impact 
on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and committed to 
resolve these as Follow Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
3.  Non-clinical aspects 
After  registration  of  valsartan,  no  further  in  vivo  preclinical  safety,  ADME  and  pharmacokinetics 
studies were performed. However, recent mechanistic studies on CYP interaction and the elimination 
mechanism have been published. Minimal information on the preclinical safety and pharmacokinetics 
of valsartan was provided to support this application, with a focus on newer mechanistic data.  
The  preclinical  safety,  preclinical  pharmacokinetics  and  clinical  pharmacokinetics  information  of 
amlodipine  have  been  presented  in  numerous  publications.  The  preclinical  safety,  ADME  or 
pharmacokinetics studies with amlodipine alone were not performed, except for a rising-dose study in 
marmosets.  Published  information  on  the  preclinical  safety,  ADME  and  pharmacokinetics  of 
amlodipine was the basis for the assessment. In particular, preclinical and clinical drug interaction data 
©EMEA 2007 
5/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on amlodipine were evaluated. Based on the available data on valsartan and amlodipine, the potential 
for interaction between valsartan and amlodipine, and potential interactions of FCP with other drugs 
was assessed. 
In line with the Draft Guideline on the non-clinical development of fixed combinations of medicinal 
products  (CHMP/SWP/258498/2005),  the  Applicant  has  performed  also  an  abridged  toxicological 
evaluation  of  the  fixed  combination  of  valsartan  and  amlodipine  (VAA489),  comprising  3-months 
repeat dose toxicity studies in the rat and marmoset and an embryo-fœtal development study in the rat. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
There  are  two  experiments  described  demonstrating  that  a  combined  chronic  oral  treatment  with 
valsartan and amlodipine produced additive blood pressure lowering effects in experimental models of 
hypertension. First refers to the chronic effects of combination therapy using valsartan and amlodipine 
on blood pressure, heart rate and cardiac mass were evaluated in the SHR (spontaneous hypertensive 
rats).  In  this  study,  valsartan  and  amlodipine  were  administered  in  drinking  water  either  alone  or  in 
combination, and blood pressure and heart rate was recorded continuously using radiotelemetry for 6 
weeks. Treatment with valsartan at a dose of 20 mg/kg/day or amlodipine at 8 mg/kg/day produced a 
14-mmHg  decrease  in  blood  pressure.  A  similar  blood  pressure  lowering  effect  was  also  achieved 
when the animals were treated with a combination of valsartan and amlodipine at 10 and 4 mg/kg/day, 
respectively.  The  combination  treatment  was  found  to  significantly  (p  <  0.05)  regress  aortic 
hypertrophy  ratios  (vehicle  control,  13.9  ±  0.5;  combination  treatment,  11.4  ±  0.2;  n  ≥  13)  and  left 
ventricular  hypertrophy  as  determined  by  wet  weight  measurements  (vehicle,  2.74  ±  0.11; 
combination treatment, 2.21 ± 0.02; normalized to body weight) in SHR upon sacrifice at the end of 
experiment. These results demonstrate that combined chronic treatment with valsartan and amlodipine 
elicited  an  additive  decrease  in  blood  pressure  as  well  as  beneficial  effects  on  vascular  hypertrophy 
and  cardiac  mass  in  this  animal  model  of  hypertension.  In  second  experiment  the  effects  of  chronic 
treatment with valsartan, administered alone or in combination with amlodipine, on blood pressure and 
the  progression  of  renal  disease  were  investigated  in  SHRs  injected  with  streptozotocin  to  induce 
diabetes. Valsartan and amlodipine were given by daily gavage for 32 weeks, and blood pressure was 
monitored  by  both  tail-cuff  plethysmography  as  well  as  radiotelemetry.  Diabetic  SHRs  treated  with 
valsartan  at  a  dose  of  30  mg/kg/day  significantly  reduced  systolic  blood  pressure  as  assessed  by 
radiotelemetry (vehicle control, 153 ± 6 mmHg; valsartan-treated, 135 ± 3 mmHg; mean ± SEM, n = 
12).  Similar  results  were  obtained  upon  treatment  with  amlodipine  at  a  dose  of  6  mg/kg/day  or  the 
combination  of  valsartan  and  amlodipine  at  doses  of  20  and  4  mg/kg/day,  respectively,  (129  ±  4 
mmHg).  Likewise,  the  three  regimens  also  produced  equihypotensive  effects  upon  measurement  by 
tail-cuff plethysmography. Thus, these results suggest that combined chronic treatment with valsartan 
and amlodipine produced an additional blood pressure lowering effects when compared to treatment 
with either drug alone. However, unlike valsartan mono-therapy that showed significant reductions in 
albuminuria  (↓  50%)  and  glomerulosclerosis,  no  renoprotective  effects  were  observed  in  diabetic 
SHRs  treated  with  an  equihypotensive  regimen  of  combination  therapy  using  valsartan  and 
amlodipine. The authors conclude that blood pressure reduction by itself is not an adequate predictor 
of subsequent renoprotection and that higher doses of agents which block the renin-angiotensin system 
may be required to optimize the beneficial renal outcomes in diabetes. In the opinion of CHMP, the 
two above-referenced studies in the SHR model sufficiently demonstrated additive lowering effect on 
blood pressure. The SHR is a state-of-the-art model of hypertension. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
No new studies with FCP were conducted. In patients with hypertension not controlled by valsartan 
alone,  treatment  with  a  free  combination  of  amlodipine  and  valsartan  has  been  shown  to  be  well-
tolerated,  safe,  and  efficacious  (Stergiou  et  al.,  J  Hypertension,  2005;  23:883-889).  Furthermore,  in 
clinical  pharmacokinetics  studies  with  the  valsartan/amlodipine  combination  (VAC),  no  significant 
pharmacokinetic  interactions  were  observed  between  amlodipine  and  valsartan.  Valsartan  does  not 
inhibit  CYP450  activities  to  any  significant  extent  and  is  mainly  eliminated  by  biliary  excretion  of 
unchanged  drug,  whereas,  amlodipine  is  cleared  metabolically.  There  was  no  interaction  between 
©EMEA 2007 
6/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
valsartan and amlodipine, and the combined data on amlodipine, valsartan and VAC indicated a rather 
low potential for interactions between VAC and co-medications. These results clearly indicate that the 
amlodipine/valsartan combination is safe and does not cause drug-drug interaction in human, a species 
that  the  drug  is  targeted  to.  Therefore,  non-clinical  pharmacology  studies  including  secondary 
pharmacodynamics  that  concern  non-selective  interactions  with  off-targets  and  pharmacodynamic 
drug  interaction  were  not  conducted  with  VAC  in  animal  species  as  these  two  drugs  are  currently 
being used in the medical practice as free combination.  
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
No  new  studies  with  VAC  were  conducted.  The  non-clinical  primary  pharmacodynamics  of  VAC 
focus on the blood pressure-lowering effects through interactions of these two agents with angiotensin 
receptor type 1 and calcium channel, and they were documented in the application. These interactions 
are considered to be very specific by the general scientific community. For valsartan monotherapy, it 
has  been  clearly  shown  that  this  drug  does  not  interact  with  calcium  channel  and  a  variety  of  other 
targets involved in the regulation of blood pressure. Likewise, amlodipine has also demonstrated a safe 
profile when given alone or in fixed-dose combination with benazepril (Faulkner and Hilleman, Exp 
Opin  Pharmacother,  2001;  2:165-  178).  Thus,  the  combination  of  amlodipine  and  valsartan  is  not 
expected  to  display  concerns  in  safety  pharmacology  assays  in  vitro.  For  these  reasons,  non-clinical 
safety pharmacology for amlodipine/valsartan combination was not conducted.  
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No  preclinical  studies  have  been  conducted  to  investigate  any  potential  pharmacodynamic  drug 
interactions  between  valsartan  and  amlodipine  or  between  the  combination  drug  and  other  drugs. 
Additive action was observed.  
Pharmacokinetics 
•  Pharmacokinetic studies 
Valsartan 
In the rat, marmoset and human, valsartan was absorbed to a moderate extent. Exposure to valsartan 
increased  dose-dependently  and  partly  dose-proportionally.  Valsartan  was  metabolized  to  a  minor 
degree.  Its  elimination  was  largely  mediated  by  biliary  excretion  of  unchanged  drug.  Hepatobiliary 
elimination appears to be due partly to MRP2, but other transporters may contribute as well. Valsartan 
did  not  inhibit  CYP  activities  to  any  significant  extent,  and  is  highly  unlikely  to  alter  the  CYP-
mediated metabolic clearance of co-medications. Conversely, CYP inhibitors or inducers are unlikely 
to  alter  the  clearance  of  valsartan.  The  drug  interaction  potential  of  valsartan  has  been  shown  to  be 
very low. 
Amlodipine 
Amlodipine  was  well  absorbed  in  animals  and  in  humans  following  oral  administration.  Oral 
bioavailability  in  humans  was  64%,  and  was  88-100%  in  rats,  dogs  and  mice.  Plasma  clearance  of 
amlodipine in human was low (7 mL/min/kg), the volume of distribution was large (21 L/kg), and the 
terminal half-life was long (34 h). The pharmacokinetics of amlodipine in humans was linear. In all 
species, amlodipine was extensively metabolized to inactive metabolites, which were excreted via both 
the renal and biliary routes. The primary metabolic pathway of amlodipine involved oxidation of the 
dihydropyridine  ring.  Subsequent  oxidation  steps  lead  to  a  variety  of  metabolites.  Plasma  protein 
binding  of  amlodipine  in  humans  was  98%.  Amlodipine  was  mainly  but  slowly  eliminated  through 
CYP3A-mediated metabolism. Therefore it may interact potentially with potent CYP3A inhibitors or 
inducers. Decreased clearance of amlodipine has been reported in clinical drug interaction studies with 
strong  CYP3A  inhibitors.  Amlodipine  showed  a  moderate  to  low  potential  to  inhibit  CYP1A1  and 
CYP2B6-mediated  metabolic  drug  clearance.  These  enzymes,  however,  appear  to  play  very  limited 
roles in the elimination of drugs. 
Valsartan/amlodipine 
Toxicokinetics  studies  in  rat  and  marmoset  demonstrated  dose-dependent  or  dose-proportional 
exposure to both drugs. At NOAEL, the exposure to both drugs (AUC, Cmax) was mostly larger than 
the  human  exposure,  with  exposure  multiples  ranging  from  0.3  to  32.5.  The  data  show  a  moderate 
safety  margin  for  humans.  No  pharmacokinetic  interaction  between  valsartan  and  amlodipine  was 
observed  in  toxicokinetics  studies.  The  potential  for  interactions  of  VAA489  with  co-medications  is 
©EMEA 2007 
7/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
considered  as  low.  However,  very  strong  inhibitors  of  CYP3A  may  increase  the  exposure  to 
amlodipine. 
•  Methods of analysis 
In toxicokinetics studies, the concentrations of valsartan and amlodipine were determined in plasma by 
specific,  validated  HPLC-MS/MS  methods.  The  lower  limits  of  quantification  were  200,  20  or  5 
ng/mL for valsartan and 5, 1 or 0.375 ng/mL for amlodipine. The analytical methods were suitable for 
analysis of plasma concentrations in the toxicity studies. References are given in the dossier. 
•  Absorption  
Valsartan 
In the rat valsartan was absorbed to a moderate extent (41%). The extent of absorption in marmoset 
and human was similar, but is not exactly known. Exposure to valsartan increased dose-dependently 
and partly dose-proportionally. 
Amlodipine 
Oral  doses  of  amlodipine  were  well  absorbed  in  mice,  rats  and  dogs,  and  were  gradually but  nearly 
completely absorbed in  man. In healthy adult volunteers following a single oral dose of 15  mg  14C-
labeled  amlodipine,  appearance  of  amlodipine  and  total  drug-related  material  in  the  plasma  was 
gradual  with  peak  concentrations  attained  around  6-9  h.  Unlike  verapamil,  diltiazem  and  nifedipine, 
amlodipine  did  not  undergo  extensive  and  variable  presystemic  metabolism.  Absolute  oral 
bioavailability was comparatively high in humans (64%), dogs (88%), mice (100%) and rats (100%). 
There  was  no  influence  of  food  on  the  absorption  or  bioavailability  of  amlodipine  in  humans. 
Activated  charcoal  almost  completely  prevented  amlodipine  absorption  when  administered 
immediately after amlodipine ingestion, and reduced absorption by 49% and 15% when administered 
with a delay of 2 h and 6 h, respectively. This could be the method of choice to prevent absorption in 
amlodipine overdose. 
•  Distribution 
Valsartan 
Valsartan was highly bound to proteins of plasma or serum. The drug proportion bound, determined 
by  equilibrium  dialysis,  was  96%  in  humans,  at  drug  concentrations  up  to  5  µg/mL.  Valsartan  was 
mainly  bound  to  albumin  (92%),  and  less  to  alpha  1-acid  glycoprotein  (22%).  Binding  to  gamma 
globulins  was  negligible.  Valsartan  was  not  displaced  by  diclofenac,  warfarin,  furosemide,  and 
hydrochlorothiazide.  High  binding  was  also  seen  in  marmoset  (95-96%),  rats  (96-98%),  dogs  (95-
97%), rabbit (90-98%), while binding was lower in the mouse (75-89%). 
Amlodipine 
Amlodipine was highly distributed into tissues with a large volume of distribution around 21-32 L/kg 
across  species.  PET  (positron  emission  tomography)  analysis  was  carried  out  in  dogs  dosed  11C-
labeled  amlodipine.  The  myocardial  concentration  increased  after  a  bolus  injection  to  reach  a 
maximum  in  2  min  and  then  remained  on  a  plateau  with  a  slight  downslide  while  the  blood 
concentration  fell  relatively  rapidly.  Myocardial  uptake  was  threefold  higher  than  lung  uptake. 
Amlodipine  was  highly  bound  to  plasma  protein  and  the  percentage  of  drug  bound  was  98%  in 
humans, 97% in dogs, and 94% in rats, at a drug concentration of 50 ng/mL (references are given in 
the non-clinical overview). 
•  Metabolism 
Valsartan 
Valsartan was poorly metabolized in animals and humans. In the marmoset, an inactive, hydroxylated 
metabolite was recovered in the excreta. In the rat a minor dose proportion underwent glucuronidation. 
In human, the same minor hydroxylated metabolite was found as that in the marmoset. 
Amlodipine 
Amlodipine  was  eliminated  mainly  through  extensive,  though  slow  metabolism,  prior  to  excretion. 
Metabolism  was  similar  in  rats,  dogs  and  mice.  No  metabolite  showed  significant  calcium  channel 
antagonist  activity.  Only  a  small  fraction  of  the  dose  (up  to  5%)  was  recovered  in  the  urine  as 
unchanged  drug.  Initial  metabolism  involved  oxidation  of  the  dihydropyridine  ring  of  the  racemic 
compound  to  the  pyridine  analogue  in  human,  rat  and  dog.  Further  metabolism  involved  side-chain 
oxidation  and  hydrolysis  of  the  side-chain  ester(s).  In  dogs  the  major  metabolites  were  formed  by 
©EMEA 2007 
8/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
oxidation of the aminoethoxymethyl side chain. In contrast, the major metabolites in the rat retained 
this side chain intact while the 5-methoxycarbonyl substituent was demethylated. In human, following 
oxidation to its pyridine derivative subsequent metabolism involved both routes found for the rat and 
the dog. Amlodipine was metabolized mainly by hepatic CYP3A, but slowly and with low first pass 
extraction. 
•  Excretion 
Valsartan 
Valsartan was excreted largely via bile and faeces, with 9% of the dose recovered in human urine only 
about a quarter of the absorbed dose (human). Recovery in urine was ≤16% of the dose in marmosets, 
and <2.5% of the dose in rats. The mechanism of the hepatobiliary elimination of valsartan, which is a 
di-anion  at  physiological  pH,  was  investigated  in  normal  and  mrp2-deficient  rats  in  vivo  Tr-rat  and 
EHBR rat. Valsartan elimination with bile depended to about 50% on the presence of canalicular mrp2 
(cMOAT).  Also,  in  canalicular  plasma  membrane  vesicles  in  vitro,  valsartan  was  shown  to  be  a 
substrate  of  mrp2.  Further,  at  least  an  additional  ATP-dependent  transporter,  probably  of  the  mrp 
family  contributes  to  elimination.  Valsartan  did  not  interact  with  bile  acid  transport  or  with  Pgp 
(mdr1).  Using  transfected  cells,  valsartan  was  shown  to  be  a  substrate  of  the  hepatic  uptake 
transporters OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. 
Amlodipine 
In rats, 33-38% of the dose was recovered in the urine and 58-60% in faeces. In both male and female 
dogs,  38-51%  of  the  dose  was  recovered  in  the  urine  and  38-49%  in  the  faeces.  The  recovery  of 
radioactivity in urine and faeces was similar after both oral and intravenous administration, indicating 
good absorption of the drug from the gastrointestinal tract. Overall dose recovery was 91-98% in rats 
and 85-91% in dogs within seven days of dose administration. In healthy adult volunteers, following 
single 5 mg intravenous and 15 mg oral doses of 14C-labeled amlodipine in a crossover design, the 
amount of dose recovered was 59-62% in the urine and 23% in the faeces, within 12 days after dose 
administration.  Mean  total  radioactivity  recovery  averaged  84%,  but  seemed  to  continue  beyond  12 
days. Studies in vitro suggested that amlodipine was a weak substrate of P-gp. 
•  Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
Valsartan 
Valsartan  was  mainly  cleared  through  biliary  excretion,  and  the  contribution  of  metabolism  was 
minor.  Therefore,  the  clearance  of  valsartan  is  unlikely  to be  altered  by  CYP  inhibitors  or  inducers. 
Valsartan  did  not  inhibit  CYP1A2,  CYP2A6,  CYP2C19,  CYP2D6,  CYP2E1,  or  CYP3A4  to  any 
significant extent. It marginally inhibited CYP2C9 with a Ki value of 135 µmol/L. This concentration 
is  beyond  the  therapeutic  range  and  the  theoretical  potential  to  alter  the  CYP-dependent  metabolic 
clearance of any co-medications is extremely low. In rats, based on studies in vitro and in vivo in wild-
type and transport-deficient strains, the hepatobiliary elimination of valsartan depended to about 50% 
on the canalicular anion transporter mrp2, see above. Other transporters, probably of the mrp family, 
are  likely  to  contribute  to  elimination.  Valsartan  did  not  interact  with  bile  acid  transport  or  P-gp 
(mdr1).  Valsartan  was  shown  to  be  a  substrate  of  the  hepatic  uptake  transporters  OATP1B1  and 
OATP1B3. Clinical drug interaction studies with valsartan are described in the clinical section of this 
assessment  report.  Based  on  the  preclinical  and  the  available  clinical  findings  with  valsartan,  the 
potential  for  clinical  drug  interactions  with  valsartan  appears  to  be  very  low.  The  main  elimination 
mechanism for valsartan in humans is likely to be hepatic canalicular transport by MRP2. According 
to  the  currently  available  literature  on  MRP2,  apparently  few  clinically  significant  drug  interactions 
via  MRP2  have  been  reported.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  knowledge  on  substrate  specificities, 
regulation  mechanisms,  and  inhibitors  and  inducers  of  MRP2,  and  of  transporters  in  general,  is  still 
limited,  and  the  predictivity  of  current  in  vitro  or  animal  models  and  the  thus  obtained  data  is  still 
uncertain. 
Amlodipine 
Amlodipine is eliminated mainly through metabolism by hepatic CYP3A. Potentially, co-medications 
might  interact  with  amlodipine  by  inhibition or  induction  of  CYP3A.  Conversely,  amlodipine  might 
interact  with  co-medications,  via  CYP  isoenzymes  involved  in  their  metabolism.  In  studies  in  vitro, 
among  the  human  CYP  isoforms  evaluated  (1A1,  1A2,  2A6,  2B6,  2C9,  2C19,  2D6,  2E1  and  3A4), 
amlodipine  showed  a  strong  competitive  inhibition  of  CYP1A1  with  a  Ki  value  of  0.13  µM,  and  a 
moderate  inhibition  of  CYP2B6  with  a  Ki  of  1.95  µM.  The  steady  state  human  plasma  Cmax  of 
©EMEA 2007 
9/29 
 
 
 
 
amlodipine following 10 mg once daily doses was around 0.062 µM (18.1 ng/mL), corresponding to 
I/Ki  values  of  0.5  and  0.03  for  CYP1A1  and  CYP2B6,  respectively.  These  I/Ki  values  suggest  a 
moderate  to  low  potential  of  amlodipine  to  inhibit  CYP1A1-  and/or  CYP2B6-mediated  metabolic 
clearance. These two enzymes, however, appear to play very limited roles in the elimination of drugs. 
(References are given in the non-clinical overview) Grapefruit juice had at most a marginal effect on 
the  pharmacokinetics  of  amlodipine  when  co-administered  to  humans.  Cimetidine,  telmisartan  or 
benazepril, did not significantly alter the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine in patients when each was 
co-administered with amlodipine. Sildenafil, which is mainly metabolized by CYP3A, did not change 
amlodipine PK, nor was any synergistic blood pressure lowering observed. Indomethacin had no effect 
on blood pressure in amlodipine treated patients. When potent CYP3A inhibitors, such as diltiazem, 
were co-administered to humans with amlodipine, plasma Cmax and AUC of amlodipine increased by 
up  to  57%.  The  combined  HIV  protease  inhibitors  indinavir  and  ritonavir,  very  strong  inhibitors  of 
CYP3A, increased the AUC of amlodipine by 90%. Increased response to amlodipine appears likely, 
and the amlodipine dose should be titrated to response and side effects. Clinical literature data show 
few interactions of amlodipine with co-medications. Amlodipine did not affect the pharmacokinetics 
of cardiovascular drugs digoxin, telmisartan, nor benazepril. Amlodipine increased AUC and Cmax of 
the hypocholesteremic drug simvastatin by 28% and 43%, respectively, though without an effect on 
cholesterol.  It  caused  none  to  minor  increase  of  cyclosporine  A  plasma  levels.  Amlodipine  had  no 
effect on the PK of the HIV protease inhibitors. There are no clinical data indicating CYP induction by 
amlodipine,  which  would  result  in  interaction  with  co-medications.  In  a  mechanistic  study  in  the 
mouse,  amlodipine  had  no  effect  on  the  PK  of  antiepileptics.  Though  amlodipine  reduced 
pentylenetetrazole-induced  seizures,  enhancing  the  protective  effect  of  antiepileptics  valproic  acid, 
phenobarbital  and  ethosuximide.  Due  to  the  potential  pharmacodynamic  interaction,  the  authors  did 
not  recommend  combination  of  amlodipine  with  antiepileptics.  In  vitro  studies  using  human  plasma 
showed that  amlodipine did not alter the protein binding of commonly used drugs such as warfarin, 
phenytoin, digoxin, or indomethacin. In studies in vitro, amlodipine was a substrate of P-gp, and was 
concluded to be a class I modulator of P-gp. At amlodipine concentrations <3 µmol/L, no effect on P-
gp was found. At higher amlodipine levels, stimulation of P-gp was seen, and inhibition was observed 
at  20  µmol/L.  Amlodipine  did  not  inhibit  the  P-gp-mediated  transport  of  digoxin  in  vitro,  and 
moderately inhibited the transport of daunorubicin with a Ki value of 22 µM. The clinical significance 
of  the  in  vitro  findings  remains  to  be  further  assessed.  In  kidney  transplant  patients,  amlodipine 
increased the AUC0-2h of cyclosporine by 16%. 
Valsartan/amlodipine 
the  combination  of  valsartan  and  amlodipine,  no  relevant 
In 
pharmacokinetic  differences  were  found  from  the  pharmacokinetics  of  the  individual  drugs  when 
administered  alone.  Thus  no  obvious  interaction  between  the  two  drugs  was  observed.  Clinical 
pharmacokinetics  studies  with  VAA489  are  discussed  in  the  Clinical  Overview.  There  was  no 
significant  pharmacokinetic  interaction  between  amlodipine  and  valsartan.  The  combined  data  on 
amlodipine, valsartan and VAA489 indicate a rather low potential for interactions between VAA489 
and  co-medications.  Relevant  pharmacokinetic  interactions  may  occur  only  with  strong  inhibitors  of 
CYP3A  enzymes.  However,  even  in  case  significant  pharmacokinetic  interactions  are  found,  the 
interaction  may  not  necessarily  be  clinically  relevant.  No  specific  studies  of  drug  interaction  were 
conducted.  In  patients  with  hypertension  not  controlled  by  valsartan  alone,  treatment  with  a  free 
combination  of  amlodipine  and  valsartan  has  been  shown  to  be  well-tolerated,  safe,  and  efficacious 
(Stergiou et al., J Hypertension, 2005; 23:883-889). Furthermore, in the response to Preclinical safety 
studies  below,  it  is  stated,  “In  clinical  pharmacokinetics  studies  with  the  VAA489  combination,  no 
significant pharmacokinetic interactions were observed between amlodipine and valsartan.  Valsartan 
does  not  inhibit  CYP450  activities  to  any  significant  extent  and  is  mainly  eliminated  by  biliary 
excretion  of  unchanged  drug  (via  hepatobiliary  anion  transporters,  mainly  MRP2);  whereas, 
amlodipine is cleared metabolically. There was no interaction between valsartan and amlodipine, and 
the  combined  data  on  amlodipine,  valsartan  and  VAA489  indicate  a  rather  low  potential  for 
interactions  between  VAA489  and  co-medications.”  These  results  clearly  indicate  that  the 
amlodipine/valsartan combination is safe and does not cause drug-drug interaction in human, a species 
that  the  drug  is  targeted  to.  Therefore,  non-clinical  pharmacology  studies  including  secondary 
pharmacodynamics  that  concern  non-selective  interactions  with  off-targets,  and  pharmacodynamic 
drug  interaction  were  not  conducted  with  fixed  dose  combination  of  amlodipine/valsartan  in  animal 
species  as  these  two  drugs  are  currently  being  used  in  the  medical  practice  as  free  combination. 
toxicokinetics  studies  with 
©EMEA 2007 
10/29 
 
 
Relevant  data  pertinent  to  monotherapy  of  valsartan  were  submitted  along  with  the  original 
submission  of  valsartan  and  the  data  pertinent  to  amlodipine  is  available  in  literature  and  public 
domains.  
•  Other pharmacokinetic studies 
Valsartan 
The pharmacokinetics of valsartan has been presented in detail in the NDA. 
Amlodipine 
Rats showed higher plasma clearance (122 mL/min/kg) than human (7 ± 1.3 h mL/min/kg), dog (11 
mL/min/kg), and mouse (28 mL/min/kg). Consequently, the terminal half-life of amlodipine in plasma 
was  shorter  in  rat  (3  h)  than  in  human  (34  ±  5  h),  dog  (30  h),  and  mouse  (11  h).  Following  oral 
administration,  maximal  plasma  concentration  of  amlodipine  was  achieved  around  3  h  in  rats,  and 
around  6-9  h  in  human,  dog,  and  mouse,  consistent  with  the  higher  clearance  in  the  rat.  The 
pharmacokinetics in the marmoset after single dose was not investigated. In healthy male volunteers, a 
linear relationship of AUC and Cmax to dose was observed following single oral doses of 2.5, 5, and 10 
mg.  Steady-state  plasma  amlodipine  concentrations  were  obtained  after  about  7  days  of  oral  10  mg 
once-daily administration. The Cmax at day 14 was 18.1 ± 7.1 ng/mL compared with 5.9 ± 1.2 ng/mL 
after a single dose. Plasma amlodipine trough-to-peak ratios were 0.67±0.08 at steady state. In young 
patients  with  hypertension,  the  clearance  of  amlodipine  was  comparable  with  that  in  young 
normotensives.  Renal  insufficiency  had  no  significant  impact  on  the  disposition  of  amlodipine.  The 
pharmacokinetic properties of amlodipine were comparable in diabetic (with T2DM) and nondiabetic 
hypertensive patients. The pharmacokinetic properties (AUC, Cmax, and trough levels) were similar in 
healthy  subjects  with  slow  (>35  h)  or  rapid  (<15  h)  GI  transit.  In  elderly  hypertensive  patients,  the 
half-life of amlodipine was somewhat longer than in young volunteers (64 ± 20 vs. 48 ± 8 h). This was 
associated  with  somewhat  decreased  clearance  (309  ±  90  vs.  410  ±  134  mL/min)  in  the  elderly. 
Patients  with  hepatic  cirrhosis  showed  longer  half-life  (60  h)  than  healthy  volunteers  (34  h).  In 
addition, AUC tended to be greater in the patients with cirrhosis (166 vs. 118 ng*h/mL) although the 
difference did not attain statistical significance. Relevant dose regime adjustment in both the elderly 
and  patient  with  hepatic  cirrhosis  may  be  necessary  in  light  of  the  pharmacokinetic  behaviour  of 
amlodipine  in  these  two  groups.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  R-(+)-  and  S-(-)-amlodipine  after  single 
enantiomer  administration  were  comparable  to  that  of  each  enantiomer  after  administration  of  the 
racemate. No racemisation occurred in vivo in human plasma. 
Valsartan/amlodipine 
For  VAC  product,  based  on  the  established  properties  of  both  drugs,  no  relevant  pharmacokinetic 
interaction,  and  no  change 
their  general  disposition  were  expected.  The  nonclinical 
pharmacokinetics  program  was  limited  to  toxicokinetics  studies,  which  included  drug  components, 
valsartan and amlodipine, as part of the toxicity testing of the combination drug in rat and marmoset. 
CHMP  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  pharmacokinetics  of  each  of  the  individual  compounds  has  been 
sufficiently  described;  and,  as  based  on  the  toxicokinetics  studies  of  the  combination,  no  significant 
impact on individual pharmacokinetics may be anticipated with valsartan/amlodipine FCP. 
in 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
No studies conducted with the VAC product and in the opinion of the CHMP the justification provided 
by Aplicant is sufficient. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
With  the  combination  product,  toxicity  studies  were  performed  in  rat  and  marmoset.  Concomitant 
toxicokinetics studies were performed to demonstrate adequate exposure of the toxicity test animals, 
as  well  as  to  characterize  the  pharmacokinetics  of  the  two  drugs  in  combination  treatment.  Toxicity 
studies  were  performed  with  VAC  product  in  rat  and  marmoset  and  included  dose  range-finding 
studies  in  rat  and  marmoset,  13-week  GLP-studies  in  rats  and  marmosets  and  an  embryo-foetal 
developmental  GLP-study  in  rats.  This  preclinical  safety  program  was  approved  earlier  by  the  FDA 
and is consistent with the FDA Guidance from January 2005 as well as the CHMP Draft Guideline on 
the  nonclinical  safety  evaluation  of  FCP.  Based  on  the  doses  of  valsartan  and  amlodipine  in  the 
©EMEA 2007 
11/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
clinical trials for this combination, a ratio of 16:1 (valsartan: amlodipine on a weight basis) was used 
in  these  preclinical  safety  studies.  All  animals  were  dosed  orally  by  gavage.  VAC  product  was 
generally well tolerated and no toxicities were identified that would be prohibitive for use in humans. 
The  rat  and  marmoset  were  selected  as  the  rodent  and  non-rodent  species  because  these  species, 
respectively, are used routinely in toxicity evaluations and both were used during the development of 
valsartan.  In  preclinical  safety  studies,  VAC  was  associated  with  changes  in  the  kidney,  erythrocyte 
parameters,  gastrointestinal  tract,  heart  and  adrenals  and  each  of  these  effects  could  be  attributed  to 
known effects of one or both components, often due to exaggerated pharmacological effects. Of these 
effects,  nephropathy,  medial  hypertrophy  of  renal  cortical  arterioles,  decrease  in  erythrocytic 
parameters and decreases in heart weight were associated with valsartan administration. Increases in 
erythrocytic  parameters,  ulcers  in  the  oesophagus,  nonglandular  stomach  and  large  intestine, 
inflammation  in  the  right  atrium  of  heart  and  adrenal  cortical  hypertrophy  were  associated  with 
amlodipine administration. Erosions/ulcers in the glandular stomach and small intestines and adrenal 
cortical  vacuolation  were  associated  with  valsartan  and/or  amlodipine  administration.  Since  these 
changes were associated with valsartan and/or amlodipine, it should not be of major concern because 
both these drugs have been used safely in the clinics for a long time as monotherapies as well as in 
free combinations. Overall, FCP was generally well tolerated by rats and marmosets in general toxicity 
studies and no toxicities were identified that would prohibit its use in humans. Since most of the target 
organ  toxicities  are  monitorable  and  were  associated  with  exaggerated  pharmacological  effects  of 
valsartan and/or amlodipine, none should be of major concern. Moreover, both these drugs have been 
used in the market safely for a very long time and have often been used concomitantly. CHMP is of 
the opinion that the toxicological findings can be monitored in the clinical settings and labelled in the 
SPC. 
Toxicokinetics of VAC was investigated in the 13-week rat toxicity study. Based on dose normalized 
AUC0-24h  values,  exposure  was  under  proportional  at  higher  dose  levels.  No  tendency  for 
accumulation  was  detected  between  day  1/2  and  64/65.  Amlodipine  had  no  effect  on  valsartan 
exposure.  However,  on  day  64/65  the  Cmax  in  females  was  higher  when  valsartan  was  administered 
alone than that when administered in combination with amlodipine (133 versus 19.7 µg/mL). Maximal 
plasma concentrations of amlodipine were observed between 0.5 and 6 h after administration. In some 
cases,  the  exposure  to  amlodipine  was  lower  in  males  compared  to  females.  On  day  1,  AUC0-24h-
based exposure to amlodipine, among the three combination doses, appeared to increase less than dose 
proportionally in male and female rats. By contrast, on Week 10, the exposure to amlodipine, among 
the three combination doses, appeared to increase more than dose proportionally in males whereas the 
increase  was  quite  dose  proportionally  in  females.  AUC0-24h-based  exposure  to  amlodipine  was 
higher at Week 10 compared to Day 1. On Day 1, AUC0-24h-based exposure to amlodipine was lower 
after dosing with the high combination compared to the high dose of amlodipine alone in males and 
females. 
Toxicokinetics  of  VAC  was  investigated  also  in  the  13-week  marmoset  toxicity  study.  In  this  study 
valsartan  was  rapidly  absorbed  with  a  tmax  between  1  and  3  h.  Cmax  for  valsartan  increased 
proportionally  with  dose.  The  Cmax  data  showed  considerable  variability.  Exposure  increased 
proportionally  with  increasing  dose.  There  was  no  consistent  difference  in  exposure  between  males 
and females. There was no accumulation seen with repeated dosing except for the males in the 40:2.5 
mg/kg/day group. However there was only one animal in this group. The valsartan concentrations in 
the 160/10/80/5 and 160/0/80/10 groups were similar, suggesting no effect of amlodipine on valsartan 
absorption  and  deposition.  Samples  from  the  control  group  animals  did  not  have  any  measurable 
concentrations of amlodipine. Amlodipine concentrations peaked between 3 and 8 h. It appears there is 
a dose related increase in Cmax with a considerable variability. Likewise, the exposure of amlodipine 
(AUC)  also  shows  a  dose-related  increase.  With  a  limited  number  of  animals,  there  were  gender 
differences  in  Cmax  and  AUC.  There  was  no  accumulation  with  repeated  dosing;  however  it  is 
important to note that the dose at the higher dosage levels was halved during the study. In marmosets, 
it may be concluded that: marmosets in all test-article treated dose groups were exposed to valsartan 
and amlodipine, the exposure to valsartan increased proportionally with increasing dose, and exposure 
to  amlodipine  increased  with  increasing  dose,  no  consistent  difference  in  exposure  to  valsartan  was 
observed for male and female marmosets (some differences in exposure to amlodipine were observed 
for male and female marmosets), exposure was generally similar following single and multiple doses 
for valsartan and amlodipine, and the concomitant administration of amlodipine had no effect on the 
©EMEA 2007 
12/29 
 
 
exposure  to  valsartan.  There  were  not  observed  any  unexpected  interactions  with  the  combination 
within  an  adequate  range  of  concentrations  and  exposures  in  rat  and  marmoset  monkeys  given 
VAA489  or  amlodipine/valsartan  separately  for  up  to  13-weeks.  Considerations  given  in  CHMP 
guideline 
combinations 
(CHMP/EMEA/CHMP/SWP/258498/2005) have been adequately addressed. 
development 
nonclinical 
fixed 
the 
for 
of 
•  Genotoxicity 
No studies were conducted with the combination. Genotoxicity studies have been performed with 
amlodipine and valsartan, separately. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
No studies were conducted with the combination. Carcinogenicity studies have been performed with 
amlodipine and valsartan, separately. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
In an embryo-foetal development study in rats, VAC was not teratogenic. VAC at 160:10 mg/kg/day 
and  amlodipine  at  20  mg/kg/day  showed  maternal  toxicity  but  had  no  effects  on  the  developing 
embryo-foetus.  At  320:20  mg/kg/day  VAC  and  320  mg/kg/day  valsartan,  there  was  an  increased 
incidence  of  dilated  ureters.  At  320:20  mg/kg/day  VAC,  foetal  skeletal  findings  of  misshapen 
sternebrae and un-ossified forepaw phalanges were noted, which were considered to be an indication 
of  developmental  delays  noted  in  the  presence  of  significant  maternal  toxicity.  In  conclusion, 
treatment-related  maternal  and  foetal  effects  were  noted  at  the  high  dose  combination  of  320:20 
mg/kg/day. Amlodipine alone at 20 mg/kg/day and VAC at 160:10 mg/kg/day produced evidence of 
maternal toxicity but had no effect on the developing embryo/foetus. The maternal NOAEL for VAC 
was  80:5  mg/kg/day  while  the  embryo/foetal  NOAEL  was  160:10  mg/kg/day.  No  teratogenicity  of 
valsartan/amlodipine  was  flagged  in  this  study,  and  kinetics  of  the  individual  compounds  was  not 
significantly  altered  by  the  combination  treatment.  For  evaluation  of  prenatal  and  postnatal 
development, including maternal function, the applicant refers to earlier studies with amlodipine and 
valsartan. 
•  Local tolerance  
No studies were conducted. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
treatment.  In  accordance  with 
An environmental risk assessment report has been submitted. The introduction of Dafiro to the market 
is  not  likely  to  lead  to  a  significant  increase  of  neither  amlodipine  nor  valsartan  in  the  environment 
because patients receiving Dafiro will typically discontinue treatment with monotherapies containing 
either  amlodipine  or  valsartan  alone,  leading  to a  substitution  of  older  monotherapy  treatments  with 
Dafiro 
the  CHMP  guideline  (Doc.  Ref. 
EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00), significant increase in the extent of the use of amlodipine and valsartan 
will not be expected from the introduction of Dafiro, and therefore an environmental risk assessment 
might  not  be  needed  at  all.  Nevertheless,  the  applicant  has  conducted  a  data-driven  assessment  that 
overall shows that there is no immediate concern for surface water, sewage treatment plants and for 
soil due to the use, storage and disposal of Dafiro. The assessment discusses the potential concern for 
amlodipine  transfer  into  sludge  and  subsequent  soil,  and  points  to  the  fact  that  concentrations  is 
expected  to  be  many-fold  lower  of  what  could  be  cause  for  concern.  The  CHMP  considers  the 
applicant’s  assessment  of  potential  environmental  risks  of  Dafiro  acceptable,  and  agrees  to  the 
conclusions of the ERA report. 
the  principles  of 
©EMEA 2007 
13/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Despite the availability of many newer antihypertensive agents, hypertensive patients remain at higher 
risk of premature death than the general population. This persistence of morbidity and mortality may 
be  accounted  for  by  the  frequent  failure  to  achieve  adequate  blood  pressure  reduction  despite  an 
extensive array of available antihypertensive agents. Such considerations have led to reassessment of 
the potential role of FCP agents in the antihypertensive armamentarium. The rationale for combination 
therapy  relates  to  the  concept  that  antihypertensive  efficacy  may  be  enhanced  when  two  classes  of 
agents  are  combined.  In  addition,  combination  therapy  may  enhance  tolerability.  FCP  therapy 
simplifies the treatment regimen, may prevent treatment failures that might result from missed doses. 
Development  of  an  ARB/CCB  combination  product  is  based  on  an  increasing  need  for  effective 
treatment  of  HTN.  The  combination  of  valsartan  and  amlodipine  is  chosen  due  to  their 
pharmacological properties including clinical effectiveness and lack of pharmacokinetic interactions. 
This application concerns Dafiro, film-coated tablets 5/80, 5/160 and 10/160 mg, which contain FCP 
of  amlodipine  besylate  and  valsartan  as  active  substances.  Amlodipine  is  a  CCB  on  the  market  for 
treatment  of  HTN  and  angina  pectoris.  Valsartan  is  a  selective  angiotensin  II  (AT1)  receptor 
antagonist, approved for treatment of HTN and heart failure. Both substances have been approved as 
monotherapy  for  at  least  ten  years  and  there  is  some  clinical  experience  of  their  use  in  non-fixed 
combination. The indication granted for Dafiro is treatment of essential HTN in patients whose blood 
pressure is not adequately controlled on amlodipine or valsartan monotherapy.  
The clinical development program for valsartan/amlodipine fixed combination products included the 
bioequivalence  studies  and  phase  III  clinical  efficacy/safety  studies.  In  line  with  the  guidance 
documents (Note for Guidance on Fixed Combination Medicinal Products, CPMP/EWP/240/95; Note 
for  Guidance  on  Clinical  Investigation  of  Medicinal  Products  in  the  Treatment  of  Hypertension, 
CPMP/EWP/238/95 Rev. 2) it consisted of placebo and active controlled studies (factorial design and 
non-responder)  performed  in  order  to  justify  the  second  line  use  of  the  fixed  combination  and  the 
proposed dosages. Bioequivalence data have been provided to bridge from the trial formulations to the 
intended  commercial  formulation.  In  addition,  the  Applicant’s  clinical  summary  contained  a  brief 
overview  of  pharmacokinetic  and  pharmacodynamic  data  of  amlodipine  and  valsartan  based  on 
published and previously submitted data, respectively. The Applicant has submitted also a single-dose 
pharmacokinetic interaction study report concerning the two components. 
GCP 
The  applicant  states  in  the  summary  that  all  human  studies  in  this  program  were  conducted  in 
accordance  with  Good  Clinical  Practices  (GCP),  with  full  ethics  committee  reviews  and  informed 
consent for all research subjects. The assessment of the clinical documentations did not raise concerns 
about compliance with GCP.. 
Pharmacokinetics 
o  Absorption 
The  following  information  from  respective  SPCs  is  available  for  both  compounds  administered 
separately.  After  oral  administration  peak  plasma  concentrations  of  amlodipine  are  reached  in  6–12 
hours.  Absolute  bioavailability  has  been  calculated  as  between  64%  and  80%.  Amlodipine 
bioavailability  is  unaffected  by  food  ingestion.  Following  oral  administration  peak  plasma 
concentrations of valsartan are reached in 2–4 hours. Mean absolute bioavailability is 23%. Valsartan 
shows  multiexponential  decay  kinetics  (t½α  <1  h  and  t½ß  about  9  h).  Food  decreases  exposure  (as 
measured by AUC) to valsartan by about 40% and peak plasma concentration (Cmax) by about 50%. 
This  reduction  in  AUC  is  not  accompanied  by  a  clinically  significant  reduction  in  the  therapeutic 
effect, and valsartan can therefore be given either with or without food. 
©EMEA 2007 
14/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Distribution 
Data  regarding  distribution  of  amlodipine  and  valsartan  have  been  derived  from  the  SPC  of  both 
compounds  administered  in  monotherapy  and  have  not  been  re-assessed.  Volume  of  distribution  of 
amlodipine is approximately 21 l/kg. In vitro studies with amlodipine have shown that approximately 
97.5%  of  circulating  drug  is  bound  to  plasma  proteins.  The  steady-state  volume  of  distribution  of 
valsartan  after  intravenous  administration  is  about  17  litres,  indicating  that  valsartan  does  not 
distribute  into  tissues  extensively.  Valsartan  is  highly  bound  to  serum  proteins  (94–97%),  mainly 
serum albumin. 
•  Elimination 
No new studies have been performed. The following information from respective SmPCs is available 
for  both  compounds  administered  separately.  Amlodipine  is  extensively  (approximately  90%) 
metabolised in the liver to inactive metabolites. Amlodipine elimination from plasma is biphasic, with 
a  terminal  elimination  half-life  of  approximately  30  to  50  hours.  Steady-state  plasma  levels  are 
reached  after  continuous  administration  for  7–8  days.  10%  of  original  amlodipine  and  60%  of 
amlodipine  metabolites  are  excreted  in  urine.  Valsartan  is  not  transformed  to  a  high  extent  as  only 
about 20% of dose is recovered as metabolites. A hydroxy metabolite has been identified in plasma at 
low  concentrations  (less  than  10%  of  the  valsartan  AUC).  This  metabolite  is  pharmacologically 
inactive.  Valsartan  is  primarily  eliminated  in  faeces  (about  83%  of  dose)  and  urine  (about  13%  of 
dose), mainly as unchanged drug. Following intravenous administration, plasma clearance of valsartan 
is  about  2  l/h  and  its  renal  clearance  is  0.62  l/h  (about  30%  of  total  clearance).  The  half-life  of 
valsartan is 6 hours. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose  proportionality  of  the  FCP  was  not  specifically  assessed.  According  to  the  prescribing 
information  of  valsartan  and  amlodipine,  both  compounds  possess  linear  pharmacokinetics.  Dose 
normalised PK parameters and respective ratio of these parameters were calculated in a pilot BE study 
(Study A2302) where bioavailability of 80/2.5 mg  FCP was compared to a  free  combination of 160 
mg  valsartan  and  10  mg  amlodipine.  Pharmacokinetics  of  valsartan  and  amlodipine  was  dose 
proportional in doses of 80-160 mg and 2.5-10 mg, respectively. 
•  Special populations 
No new studies have been performed with the FCP. The following information from respective SPCs 
is available for both compounds administered separately.  
Impaired renal function 
− 
Amlodipine: the pharmacokinetics of amlodipine is not significantly influenced by renal impairment. 
Amlodipine is not dialyzable. Valsartan: renal clearance of valsartan accounts for 30% of total plasma 
clearance,  no  correlation  was  seen  between  renal  function  and  systemic  exposure  to  valsartan.  Dose 
adjustment is therefore not required in patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 20-50 
ml/min). Limited data are available in patients with moderate-severe impairment of renal function and 
a starting dose of 40 mg is recommended in these patients. No studies have been performed in patients 
undergoing  dialysis.  However,  valsartan  is  highly  bound  to  plasma  protein  and  is  unlikely  to  be 
removed by dialysis. 
Impaired hepatic function 
− 
Amlodipine: patients with hepatic insufficiency have decreased clearance of amlodipine with resulting 
increase of approximately 40–60% in AUC. Valsartan: on average, in patients with mild to moderate 
chronic liver disease exposure (measured by AUC values) to valsartan is twice that found in healthy 
volunteers  (matched  by  age,  sex  and  weight).  In  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  hepatic  impairment 
without cholestasis, the maximum recommended dose is 80 mg valsartan. Patients with severe hepatic 
impairment, cirrhosis, biliary obstruction are contra-indicated from using valsartan. 
−  Gender 
Valsartan plasma concentrations were observed to be similar in males and females. 
©EMEA 2007 
15/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
−  Elderly 
Amlodipine  was  equally  well  tolerated  when  used  at  similar  doses  in  elderly  or  younger  patients, 
normal dosage regimens are recommended. 
A somewhat higher systemic exposure to valsartan was observed in some elderly subjects compared 
with young subjects. The applicant commits to examine if clinical data supports a dose reduction in 
the  elderly  patient  population  and  if  so  the  company  should develop  a  new  formulation  with  40  mg 
valsartan. 
−  Children 
No pharmacokinetic data of amlodipine and valsartan are available in the paediatric population. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Study 37 was a single dose, randomized, 3 period, crossover, study was performed to demonstrate the 
lack of pharmacokinetic interaction between valsartan and amlodipine. This study was submitted as a 
part of valsartan application. Critical evaluation of the study was performed during the assessment of 
valsartan and this study was not re-assessed in this application. The results from this study are reported 
in  the  SPC  of  the  valsartan.  Under  section  4.5  (Interaction  with  other  medicinal  products)  it  is 
concluded that when used together with amlodipine no clinically significant change in the exposure of 
valsartan  is  expected.  Amlodipine  and  valsartan  have  been  used  in  medical  practice  as  a  free 
combination.  Valsartan  does  not  inhibit  CYP450  activities  to  any  significant  extent  and  is  mainly 
eliminated  by  biliary  excretion  of  unchanged  drug  (mainly  by  MRP2).  Amlodipine  is  cleared 
metabolically. Based on the literature data, amlodipine and valsartan do not inhibit CYP450 enzymes 
in vitro. 
Clinical pharmacology development program 
The results of the clinical pharmacology study programme consist of two pilot bioavailability studies 
and  three  definitive  bioequivalence  studies  (see  the  table  below).  A  bioequivalence  development 
program  was  designed  as  part  of  the  registration  application.  Based  on  the  discussions  with  the  EU 
health  agencies,  two  definitive  bioequivalence  (BE)  studies  were  conducted  with  the  dose  strengths, 
80/2.5  mg  and  160/10  mg  valsartan/amlodipine.  In  addition,  based  on  the  compositional 
proportionality  of  active  and  inactive  ingredients,  and  similarity  in  in  vitro  dissolution  properties, 
biowaivers  are  being  requested  for  the  other  two  dose  strengths,  80/5  mg  and  160/5  mg  of 
valsartan/amlodipine.  
Study  
Strength 
Subjects   Aim of the study 
Studies conducted as a part of this submission 
A2302 
27 
Pilot study, relative BA of FCP to free combination 
80/2.5 mg 
160/10 mg 
80/2.5 mg 
160/10 mg 
160 mg 
5 mg 
160/10 mg 
A2303 
A2309 
37 
A2102 
A2313 
160/10 mg 
77 
68 
12 
Pivotal study, BE between FCP and free combination 
Pivotal study, BE between FCP and free combination 
Drug-drug interaction between amlodipine and valsartan 
BE between FCP and free combination of valsartan and EU-
sourced amlodipine (pivotal BE studies A2303 and A2309 
used US-sourced amlodipine encapsulated tablets in free 
combination arm) (ongoing) 
Food effect study 
Study VAA489A2302 (Pilot Bioavailability) 
CP-Study  2302  was  an  open-label,  single-dose,  three  period,  randomized  crossover  pilot  study  to 
investigate  the  relative  bioavailability  of  160/10  mg  and  80/2.5  mg  valsartan/amlodipine  prototype 
©EMEA 2007 
16/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fixed combination tablet formulations compared to a free combination of marketed 160 mg valsartan 
and  10  mg  amlodipine  tablets.  This  was  a  pilot  bioavailability  study  and  was  not  powered  to 
demonstrate  strict  bioequivalence.  A  total  of  27  healthy  male  and  female  subjects  were  enrolled  25 
subjects  completed  all  study  treatments  and  procedures.  The  dose  adjusted  Cmax  and  AUC(0-t)  of 
valsartan  with  the  80/2.5  mg  fixed  combination  were  comparable  to  that  of  the  free  combination  of 
160  mg  valsartan  and  10  mg  amlodipine.  The  90%CI  of  valsartan’s  Cmax  and  AUC  were  within  the 
bio-equivalence range of 0.8-1.25. On the other hand, the dose adjusted AUC0-t of amlodipine with the 
80/2.5  mg  fixed  combination  was  about  20%  lower  compared  to  the  free  combination  of  160  mg 
valsartan and 10 mg amlodipine treatments, whereas the Cmax was within the bio-equivalence range of 
0.8-1.25.  Since  the  comparisons  were  made  between  the  dose-normalized  data,  the  appeared 
differences in AUC could be attributed to in appropriate design of the study. Based on these results, 
the 160/10 mg and 80/2.5 mg fixed combination prototype tablets were  scaled-up to bio-batch scale 
and used in the respective pivotal BE studies. 
Study VAA489A2303 (Definitive Bioequivalence, 80/2.5 mg) 
Study  VAA489A2303  was  an  open-label,  single-dose,  two  treatment,  four  period,  replicate, 
randomized  crossover  study  to  demonstrate  the  bioequivalence  between  the  fixed  combination  of 
valsartan/amlodipine 80/2.5 mg Final Market Image (FMI) tablet and the free combination of 80 mg 
valsartan and 2.5 mg amlodipine clinical service forms. Treatment A: Single dose of 80/2.5 mg fixed 
combination  valsartan/amlodipine  FMI  tablet  [Investigational]  and  Treatment  B:  Single  dose  of  free 
combination  of  80  mg  valsartan  (80  mg  CSF)  and  2.5  mg  amlodipine  (2.5  mg  CSF)  [Comparator]. 
Subjects  were  randomized  to  one  of  the  two  treatment  sequences:  ABAB  or  BABA.  Seventy  seven 
subjects were enrolled and 61 subjects completed all study requirements. PK parameters were plasma 
concentration vs. time-profiles used to determine AUC0-t, AUC0-∞, Cmax, tmax, and t½, in all subjects for 
both  Valsartan  and  amlodipine,  using  non-compartmental  methods.  The  pharmacokinetic  and 
statistical results indicate that the 90% confidence intervals for AUC0-t and AUC0-∞ of valsartan were 
within  the  required  acceptable  bioequivalence  range  of  0.80-1.25,  which  indicates  that  the  extent  of 
absorption  of  valsartan  between  the  fixed  and  free  combination  treatments  is  similar.  The  90% 
confidence  interval  for  Cmax  of  valsartan  was  slightly  outside  the  upper  bound  of  the  acceptable 
bioequivalence range while time to reach maximum concentration (Tmax) was comparable. The point 
estimate and the corresponding 90% confidence interval of Cmax were 1.17 and 1.06-1.29, respectively, 
which  indicates  that  the  mean  rate  of  absorption  as  evidenced  by  Cmax  was  17%  higher  with  fixed 
combination treatment compared to that of the free combination treatments.  The point estimate falls 
within  the  established  BE  criteria  of  0.80-1.25,  while  the  upper  limit  of  the  confidence  interval  just 
outside the range. This minor deviation in Cmax of valsartan with comparable exposure is considered 
not  clinically  relevant  because  valsartan  is  a  chronically  administered  drug,  has  a  wide  therapeutic 
window  of  effect,  and  has  an  established  safety  profile  in  the  dosage  range  of  20  to  320  mg. 
Furthermore,  the  90%  confidence  intervals  of  amlodipine  component  for  AUC0-t,  AUC0-∞  and  Cmax 
parameters  were  all  within  the  established  bioequivalence  range  of  0.80-1.25.  These  results  indicate 
that the rate and extent of absorption of amlodipine from the fixed combination tablet are equivalent to 
those  of  the  free  combination  treatment.    In  conclusion,  with  the  exception  of  upper  limit  of  the 
confidence interval for the Cmax of valsartan, the FMI tablet containing 80 mg of valsartan and 2.5 mg 
of  amlodipine  met  the  bioequivalence  criteria  relative  to  the  free  combination  of  CSFs  of  80  mg 
valsartan  and  2.5  mg  amlodipine  capsules.  Thus,  the  efficacy  and  safety  data  generated  in  phase  III 
trials  with  the  free  combination  of  80  mg  of  valsartan  CSF  and  2.5  mg  amlodipine  CSF  can  be 
extrapolated to the 80/2.5 mg valsartan/amlodipine fixed combination FMI tablet. 
Study VAA489A2309 (Definitive Bioequivalence, 160/10 mg) 
Study  VAA489A2309  was  an  open-label,  single-dose,  two  treatment,  four  period,  replicate, 
randomized  crossover  study  to  demonstrate  the  bioequivalence  between  the  fixed  combination  of 
valsartan/amlodipine 160/10 mg Final Market Image (FMI) tablet and the free combination of 160 mg 
valsartan  and  10  mg  amlodipine  clinical  service  forms.  Sixty  eight  subjects  were  enrolled  and  54 
subjects completed all study requirements. Each subject participated in a 21-day screening period, four 
baseline  and  treatment  periods  and  an  end-of  study  evaluation.  An  inter  dose  interval  of  at  least  14 
days was allowed between doses. During the four treatment periods the following two treatments were 
given  twice  under  fasting  conditions:  treatment  A  (single  dose  of  160/10  mg  fixed  combination 
©EMEA 2007 
17/29 
 
 
 
 
 
valsartan/amlodipine FMI tablet [Investigational]) and treatment B (single dose of free combination of 
160 mg valsartan (1 x 160 mg CSF) and 10 mg amlodipine (2 x 5 mg CSF) [Comparator]). Subjects 
were  randomized  to  receive  one  of  the  two  treatment  sequences:  ABAB  or  BABA.  PK  parameters 
were plasma concentration vs. time-profiles used to determine AUC0-t, AUC0-∞, Cmax, tmax, and t½, in all 
subjects for both valsartan and amlodipine, using non-compartmental methods. The pharmacokinetic 
and  statistical  results  indicate  that  the  90%  confidence  intervals  for  Cmax,  AUC0-t  and  AUC0-∞  of 
valsartan were within the required acceptable bioequivalence range of 0.80-1.25, which suggests that 
the rate and extent of absorption of valsartan between the fixed and free combination treatments are 
equivalent. Similarly, the 90% confidence intervals of amlodipine component for AUC0-t, AUC0-∞ and 
Cmax parameters were all within the acceptable bioequivalence range of 0.80-1.25. These results also 
indicate that the rate and extent of absorption of amlodipine between the fixed and free combination 
treatments are equivalent. In conclusion, the efficacy and safety data generated in phase III trials with 
the free combination of 160 mg of valsartan CSF and 10 mg amlodipine CSFs can be extrapolated to 
the 160/10 mg valsartan/amlodipine fixed combination FMI tablet. 
Study VAA489A2102 (Definitive Bioequivalence, EU sourced amlodipine versus the FMI) 
Study VAA489A2102 was an ongoing open-label, randomized, single-dose, two way cross over study 
to demonstrate the bioequivalence of amlodipine component between the fixed combination of 160/10 
mg  valsartan/amlodipine  final  market  image  (FMI)  tablet  and  the  10  mg  amlodipine  tablet  
administered  in  combination  with  160  mg  valsartan  clinical  service  form  (CSF).  Bioequivalence 
studies  [CP-study  2303  and  CP-study  2309]  compared  the  fixed  combination  valsartan/amlodipine 
tablet against the free combination of clinical service forms (CSFs) of valsartan and amlodipine. The 
amlodipine  CSF  was  an  encapsulated  US-sourced  amlodipine  tablet.  The  encapsulation  was  done  to 
preserve  the  blinding.  VAA489A2102  study  specifically  utilized  EU-sourced  amlodipine  as  the 
reference 
fixed  combination 
valsartan/amlodipine  tablet  in  the  EU  via  the  centralized  procedure.  Logarithmically  transformed 
amlodipine PK parameters, AUC and Cmax, were analyzed by a linear mixed effects model, with fixed 
effects for sequence, treatment and period and random effects for subject nested within sequence. The 
resulting  90%  confidence  intervals  of  the  treatment  mean  ratios  were  used  to  evaluate  the 
bioequivalence between the fixed combination (test) formulation and the free (reference) formulation. 
The rate (Cmax) and extent (AUC) of absorption of amlodipine were equivalent between the 160/10 mg 
valsartan/amlodipine fixed combination final market image tablet and 10 mg EU-sourced amlodipine 
when  administered  in  combination  with  160  mg  valsartan  clinical  service  form  thus  the  definitive 
bioequivalence of EU sourced amlodipine and the FMI has been demonstrated. 
requirements  of 
registration 
to  meet 
treatment 
the 
the 
Study No. VAA489A37 
The  primary  objective  of  the  study  was  to  determine  whether  a  pharmacokinetic  interaction  exists 
between  amlodipine  and  valsartan  following  single  doses  of  160  mg  valsartan  capsule,  and  5  mg 
amlodipine  tablet,  alone  and  in  combination,  in  healthy  subjects.  The  study  was  a  single-center, 
randomized,  open-label,  three-way  crossover  single  dose  trial  in  healthy  subjects  with  a  two  week 
washout period between doses. Treatment A consisted of one 160 mg valsartan capsule administered 
orally as a single dose, treatment B – one 5 mg amlodipine tablet administered orally as a single dose 
and treatment C of one 160 mg capsule of valsartan and one 5 mg tablet of amlodipine administered 
orally  together  as  a  single  dose,  free  combination.  The  duration  of  treatment  was  10  weeks.  Plasma 
concentration-time  profiles  were  evaluated  to  determine  the  following  pharmacokinetic  parameters: 
AUC0-t, the area under the curve from zero to the last sampling point; AUC0-∞, the area under the curve 
from zero to time infinity; Cmax, the highest observed plasma concentration for each dose; and Tmax, the 
time after each dose at which the highest observed plasma concentrated was reported. The parameters 
determined  for  valsartan  and  amlodipine  administered  as  a  free  combination  were  compared  to 
parameters determined for each drug administered alone. It was not the intent of this study to evaluate 
these results according to standard bioequivalence methodology, but rather to use these measures as a 
guide to interpretation of a pharmacokinetic interaction. The results of this study are presented in the 
table below. There was no pharmacokinetic interaction between amlodipine and valsartan. Therefore 
dosage adjustment of these medications when administered together should not be necessary. 
©EMEA 2007 
18/29 
 
 
 
 
 
Bio-waiver request for the 80mg/5 mg valsartan/amlodipine dose 
This  rationale  is  in  line  with  the  criteria  set  in  the  Note  for  guidance  on  the  investigation  of 
Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence.  The  composition  of  80/5  mg  valsartan/amlodipine  fixed 
combination  FMI  tablet  is  proportional  in  its  active  and  inactive  ingredients  to  the  160/10  mg 
valsartan/amlodipine  fixed  combination  FMI  tablet,  for  which  the  bio-equivalence  has  been 
established [CP-Study 2309]. In addition, the manufacturing process of the two products is identical. 
Furthermore, Valsartan and amlodipine exhibit linear and dose proportional pharmacokinetics. It has 
been demonstrated that in vitro dissolution of valsartan to and amlodipine to is comparable in three pH 
media  between  the  80/5  mg  and  160/10  mg  fixed  combination  products.  In  conclusion,  the 
composition  proportionality  of  the  160/10  mg  and  80/5  mg  valsartan/amlodipine  fixed  combination 
tablets, the same manufacturing process for these tablets, and the acceptable in vitro dissolution results 
fulfilled the requirements for both bioequivalence and bioequivalence waiver related to drug products 
that are proportionally similar in their active substance and excipients. 
Bio-waiver request for the 160/5 mg valsartan/amlodipine dose 
The request is based on the following rationale. This rationale is in line with the criteria set in the Note 
for guidance on the investigation of Bioavailability and Bioequivalence. The composition of 160/5 mg 
valsartan/amlodipine fixed combination FMI tablet is proportional in its active and inactive ingredients 
to  the  80/2.5  mg  valsartan/amlodipine  fixed  combination  FMI  tablet,  for  which  the  bio-equivalence 
was  established  [CP  Study  2303].  In  addition,  the  manufacturing  process  of  the  two  products  is 
identical.  Furthermore,  Valsartan  and  amlodipine  exhibit 
linear  and  dose  proportional 
pharmacokinetics.  In  vitro  dissolution  of  valsartan  to  and  amlodipine  to  is  comparable  in  three  pH 
media  between  the  160/5  mg  and  80/2.5  mg  fixed  combination  products;  please  refer  to  the  figures 
below.  In  conclusion, 
the  80/2.5  mg  and  160/5  mg 
valsartan/amlodipine fixed combination tablets, the same manufacturing process for these tablets, and 
the  acceptable  in  vitro  dissolution  results  fulfilled  the  requirements  for  both  bioequivalence  and 
bioequivalence waiver related to drug products that are proportionally similar in their active substance 
and excipients. 
the  composition  proportionality  of 
©EMEA 2007 
19/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Influence of food 
The  effect  of  food  on  the  oral  bioavailability  of  single  dose  administration  of  160/10  mg 
valsartan/amlodipine  fixed  combination  tablet  was  investigated  [Study  2313].  Food  has  no  effect  on 
the  AUC  of  valsartan  with  slight  decrease  in  Cmax  and  Tmax  were  observed.  These  slight  changes  in 
Cmax and Tmax are not considered clinically relevant. The rate (Cmax) and extent (AUC) of absorption 
of amlodipine are comparable between fed and fasting conditions. In conclusion, the data suggest that 
the fixed combination tablets of valsartan/amlodipine can be administered without regards to meal. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Clinical  pharmacology  studies  specifically  designed  to  evaluate  the  pharmacodynamics  of  the  fixed 
combination  of  valsartan/amlodipine  were  not  performed.  In  the  opinion  of  CHMP  the  combination 
may  be  safely  administered  as  there  is  no  pharmacokinetic  interaction  when  the  two  drugs  are  co-
administered. 
Clinical efficacy  
The targeted  indication for Dafiro is treatment of hypertension where  monotherapy is not sufficient. 
Documentation  of  efficacy  is  based  on  5  pivotal  studies.  Four  of  the  pivotal  studies,  2  double  blind 
placebo controlled studies (A2201 and A2307), and 2 double-blind active controlled studies (A2305 
and A2306) were performed in patients with mild to moderate essential hypertension, and 1 double-
blind active controlled study (A2308) was performed in patients with severe hypertension. Long term 
data  comes  from  2  extension  studies  (A2201E  and  A2307E),  results  are  dealt  with  under  Clinical 
Safety.  Two  further  studies  (BR02  and  study  21)  are  considered  as  supportive.  The  development 
programme  is  in  compliance  with  current  guidelines  and  obtained  scientific  advice  from  several 
national agencies. 
The pivotal clinical studies are summarised below: 
Treatment 
Study 
duration 
No. 
Patients 
randomized 
Study objective 
Treatment/dose 
(mg) 
A2201  Efficacy and safety of 
1911 
various valsartan/ 
amlodipine 
combinations compared 
to their monotherapy 
components and to 
placebo, in patients 
with mild to moderate 
essential hypertension 
2-4 weeks  placebo run-in 
8 weeks 
placebo 
valsartan 40 
valsartan 80 
valsartan 160 
valsartan 320 
amlodipine 2.5 
amlodipine 5 
valsartan/amlodipine 40/2.5 
valsartan/amlodipine 40/5 
valsartan/amlodipine 80/2.5 
valsartan/amlodipine 80/5 
valsartan/amlodipine 160/2.5 
valsartan/amlodipine 160/5 
valsartan/amlodipine 320/2.5 
valsartan/amlodipine 320/5 
Efficacy endpoint 
Primary: change from 
baseline in MSDBP 
Secondary/other: change 
from baseline in MSSBP; 
standing SBP and DBP; 
sitting and standing pulse; 
responder rate; control rate 
A2307  As for Study A2201 
1250 
As for Study A2201 
2-4 weeks  placebo run-in 
8 weeks 
placebo 
valsartan 160  
valsartan 320  
amlodipine 10  
valsartan/amlodipine 160/10  
valsartan/amlodipine 320/10  
©EMEA 2007 
20/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study No. 
Study objective, 
population 
Patients 
randomized 
Treatment 
duration 
Dosage (mg) 
Efficacy endpoint 
A2305 
A2306 
A2308 
Efficacy/safety of the 
combinations of 
valsartan/amlodipine 
160/10 or 160/5 mg, 
compared to valsartan 
160 mg alone in patients 
with essential 
hypertension not 
adequately controlled on 
valsartan 160 mg 
monotherapy 
Efficacy/safety of the 
combination of 
valsartan/amlodipine 
160/10 mg compared to 
amlodipine 10 mg alone 
in patients with essential 
hypertension not 
adequately controlled on 
amlodipine 10 mg 
monotherapy  
Safety/efficacy of 
valsartan/amlodipine 
compared to 
lisinopril/HCTZ in 
severe hypertensive 
patients (MSDBP ≥ 110 
mmHg and <120 
mmHg) 
•  Dose response studies 
947 
4 weeks  
8 weeks  
valsartan 160 run-in 
valsartan/amlodipine 
160/10 
valsartan/amlodipine 
160/5  
valsartan 160  
Primary: MSDBP 
Secondary: MSSBP, 
responder rate, 
control rate, standing 
DBP and SBP, and 
sitting and standing 
pulse 
944 
4 weeks  
8 weeks  
amlodipine 10 run-in 
valsartan/amlodipine 
160/10  
amlodipine 10  
As for Study A2305 
130 
1-2 weeks 
6 weeks 
placebo run-in 
valsartan/amlodipine 
160/5 titrated to 
valsartan/amlodipine 
160/10  
lisinopril/HCTZ 10/12.5 
titrated to 
lisinopril/HCTZ 20/12.5  
Safety was the 
primary endpoint.  
With respect to 
efficacy, the 
variables analyzed 
were identical to 
those in Study 
A2305. 
Dose-findings studies were not conducted. The dose selection for the development program was based 
on the authorised doses of the respective monotherapies. The development program is in accordance 
with the CHMP guidance documents on evaluation of antihypertensives/fixed combinations.  
•  Main studies  
Studies A2201 and A 2307 
Study Participants, treatments, objectives 
Studies  A2201  and  A2307  were  double-blind,  randomized,  multifactorial,  placebo-controlled, 
multicenter,  parallel  group  trials,  and  had  the  same  outcome  measures.  After  the  washout  phase, 
patients  went  on  to  a  2-4  week  single-blind  placebo  run-in  period.  If  their  MSDBP  was  within  the 
prespecified  range  at  the  end  of  this  period  they  were  randomised  to  double-blind  treatment  for  8 
weeks.  Study  A2201  used  a  factorial  design  with  valsartan  doses  of  40,  80,  160,  or  320  mg, 
amlodipine doses of 2.5 or 5 mg, and placebo. Study A2307 used a similar design with valsartan doses 
of  160  or  320  mg,  amlodipine  dose  of  10  mg  and  placebo.  A  total  of  1911  and  1250  patients  were 
randomised  in  trial  A2201  and  A2307,  respectively.  The  objective  of  these  trials  was  to  assess  the 
blood  pressure  lowering  effect  of  the  various  combinations  compared  to  their  monotherapy 
components  and  placebo.  The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  change  from  baseline  in  MSDBP  at 
endpoint  in  all  pivotal  studies.  Secondary  variables  were  change  in  MSSBP,  responder  and  control 
rates  and  standing  MSDBP.  All  monotherapies  and  combinations  were  statistically  different  from 
placebo.  
Results 
Significant  benefits  of  the  combinations  valsartan/amlodipine  80/5,  160/5  and  160/10  mg  were 
demonstrated vs. monotherapy (amlodipine or valsartan) in studies A2201 and A2307. Several other 
©EMEA 2007 
21/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
combinations showed benefit; however, these are not mentioned here, as they are not comprised of the 
present MAA. All changes from baseline in MSSBP were statistically different from placebo for all 
monotherapies  and  combinations.  Furthermore,  all  combinations  of  valsartan/amlodipine  for  which 
MA  is  sought  for,  were  statistically  different  from  valsartan  and  amlodipine  monotherapy.  The 
observed mean reductions in MSDBP with the valsartan/amlodipine 80/5 mg and 160/5 mg doses are 
similar and the slope of the blood pressure dose response among the valsartan/amlodipine 5 mg dose 
groups is shallow in A2201. The blood pressure dose response among the valsartan monotherapy dose 
groups  was  more  pronounced  and  one  would  have  expected  a  similar  pattern  among  doses  of  the 
combination  as  the  dose  of  valsartan  was  increased.  Therefore,  this  observed  shallow  dose  response 
among  the  valsartan/amlodipine  5  mg  dose  groups  may  have  been  a  play  of  chance  due  to  usual 
variability  in  the  study  (individual  95%  confidence  intervals  for  the  reduction  in  MSDBP  are  13.99  
[-15.31;  -12.68],  14.23  [-15.54;  -12.92]  and  14.44  [-15.64;  -13.24]  mmHg  for  160/5,  80/5  and  40/5 
mg,  respectively).  From  a  clinical  safety  perspective,  there  was  no  dose  related  increase  in  adverse 
events  (AEs)  among  the  valsartan/amlodipine  5  mg  treatment  groups.  In  the  double-blind,  placebo-
controlled studies, the incidence of adverse events in the valsartan/amlodipine 40/5, 80/5, 160/5, and 
320/5  mg  groups  were  46.0%,  52.3%,  54.8%,  and  46.5%,  respectively,  compared  to  50.8%  with 
amlodipine 5 mg. 
Studies A2305 and A2306 
Study Participants, treatments, objectives 
The pivotal trials A2305 and A2306 adopted the same design. The design was in accordance with the 
requirements  of  the  fixed  combination  section  for  second  line  therapy  of  the  CHMP  guidance  on 
antihypertensives.  After  a  wash-out  phase,  eligible  patients  were  enrolled  into  a  single-blind 
monotherapy phase with valsartan 160 mg and amlodipine 10 mg in study A2305 and study A2306, 
respectively,  as  to  identify  non-responders.  These  were  subsequently  randomised  to  continue 
monotherapy  or  shift  to  the  fixed  combinations  of  valsartan/amlodipine  160/5  mg  or  160/10  mg  in 
study  A2305  or  valsartan/amlodipine  160/10  mg  in  study  A2306.  Primary  and  secondary  outcome 
measures were the same as in the placebo-controlled pivotal studies.  
Results 
In both studies a significant decrease of MSDBP as well as MSSBP at endpoint compared to baseline 
was evident for all treatment groups. In both studies MSDBP lowering was clinically and statistically 
superior with the combination therapies compared to the monotherapies. Furthermore, in study A 2305 
valsartan/amlodipine 160/10 mg was statistically superior in comparison to valsartan/amlodipine 160/5 
mg, although the clinical significance of this finding can be questioned.  
Within treatment analyses for change from baseline MSDBP (from Applicant’s tables 9-1, M5, 5.3.5.1. 
p6477 and 9039) 
GROUP 
BASELINE 
(MMHG) 
Mean change 
from baseline 
95%CI for change 
p-value 
Study A2305 
Val/Aml 160/10 mg 
Val/Aml 160/5 mg 
Val 160 mg 
Study A2306 
Val/aml 160/10 mg 
Aml 10 mg 
96.6 
96.8 
96.2 
94.8 
95.3 
-11.4 
-9.6 
-6.6 
-11.8 
-10.0 
-12.13, -10.64 
-10.47, -8.82 
-7.40, -5.74 
-12.50, -11.06 
-10.73, -9.26 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
The mean changes in MSDBP from baseline in the double-blind treatment period monotherapy arms 
of  both  studies  (which  were  supposed  to  be  the  ‘non-responders’)  showed  a  clinically  relevant  and 
statistically significant decrease over time during the double blind treatment period and reach -6.6 and 
-10.0 mmHg at endpoint for valsartan and amlodipine, respectively. It can thus be questioned whether 
the monotherapy period to identify the non-responders was sufficiently long and whether the true non-
responders actually were identified. Even though the add-on studies were not optimal, the guideline’s 
©EMEA 2007 
22/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
claim of “a significant and clinically relevant additional blood pressure reduction of the combination” 
in comparison to either monotherapy could be proven. 
Responder rates and proportions of patients with controlled hypertension (data from Applicant’s tables 9-
7 and 9-9, M5, 5.3.5.1. p6480 and 9043) 
Group 
Responder rate 
Control rate 
Study A2305 
Val/Aml 160/10 mg 
Val/Aml 160/5 mg 
Val 160 mg 
Study A2306 
Val/aml 160/10 mg 
Aml 10 mg 
81.0 
68.0 
56.8 
79.0 
70.1 
75.3 
62.4 
52.6 
77.8 
66.5 
There  was  no  dose-related  increase  in  the  incidence  of  adverse  events  in  the  valsartan/amlodipine 
40/5, 80/5, 160/5, and 320/5 mg groups. Thus, from a benefit/risk perspective, there would appear to 
be no significant clinical  concern in prescribing valsartan/amlodipine at either the 80/5 mg or 160/5 
mg  dose  level  and  the  choice  can  be  left  to  the  practicing  physician  on  an  individual  patient  basis. 
From  a  clinical  practice  perspective,  a  physician  will  initiate  therapy  in  a  hypertensive  patient  with 
valsartan  80  mg  monotherapy  and,  depending  on  an  individual  patient’s  response  and  target  blood 
pressure goal, may elect to increase the dose to valsartan 160 mg. A next logical step in the titration 
scheme  for  this  patient  would  be  the  addition  of  amlodipine  5  mg.  This  step-wise  approach  is 
consistent  with  current  hypertension  treatment  guidelines.  In  addition,  the  favourable  benefit/risk 
profile of the valsartan/amlodipine 160/5 mg dose in this particular scenario was clearly demonstrated 
in study A2305. 
Study A2308 
Study Participants, treatments, objectives 
Study A2308 was a study performed in patients with severe hypertension, patients’ MSDBP had to be 
>110 and <120mmHg at randomization. The primary objective was to evaluate the safety of the fixed 
combination and only descriptive statistics are given for efficacy. After a short wash-out and placebo-
run–in  period  approximately  60  patients  per 
to  either 
valsartan/amlodipine  160/5  mg  or  lisinopril/HCTZ  10/12.5  mg,  i.e.  the  combination  as  first-line 
therapy  which  is  not  the  scope  of  this  application.  Titration  to  valsartan/amlodipine  160/10  or 
lisinopril /HCTZ 20/12.5mg was foreseen if diastolic BP did not decrease sufficiently.  
treatment  group  were  randomized 
Results 
From the provided data the treatment of the ACE inhibitor lisinopril in combination with the diuretic 
HCTZ  appear  “comparable”  to  the  combination  valsartan/amlodipine  with  respect  to  BP  lowering, 
responder  and  control  rates.  Tolerability  in  this  trial  appeared  to  be  unfavourable  for  the 
Valsartan/Amlodipine  combination  compared  to  the  lisinopril/HCTZ  combination.  However,  since 
Dafiro  is  going  to  be  used  as  a  second  line  indication  combined  with  the  fact  that  the  numbers  of 
patient per treatment arm were small and comparisons therefore should be done with caution, this is 
acceptable. 
Mean reductions in MSDBP and MSSBP (Applicant’s table 4-7, M2, 2.5, p25) 
Responder and controlled patient rates (Applicant’s table 4-8, M2, 2.5, p.26) 
©EMEA 2007 
23/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
No  studies  in  special  populations  have  been  performed.  The  analysis  of  efficacy  and  safety  results 
indicates that there is a need for further data in the elderly. Therefore, the applicant was asked for a 
commitment  to  perform  a  separate  study  in  elderly  patients  (see:  follow-up  measures).  A  paediatric 
development plan is not foreseen. Therefore no studies This is considered acceptable. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Documentation  of  efficacy  is  based  on  5  pivotal  studies.  The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  change 
from  baseline  in  MSDBP  at  endpoint  in  all  pivotal  studies.  Secondary  variables  were  change  in 
MSSBP, responder and control rates and standing MSDBP. Significant benefits of the combinations 
valsartan/amlodipine 80/5, 160/5 and 160/10 mg were demonstrated vs. monotherapy (amlodipine or 
valsartan)  in  studies  A2201  and  A2307.  All  changes  from  baseline  in  MSSBP  were  statistically 
different  from  placebo  for  all  monotherapies  and  combinations.  Furthermore,  all  combinations  of 
valsartan/amlodipine  for  which  MA  is  sought  for,  were  statistically  different  from  valsartan  and 
amlodipine  monotherapy.  The  observed  mean  reductions  in  MSDBP  with  the  valsartan/amlodipine 
80/5 mg and 160/5 mg doses are similar and the slope of the blood pressure dose response among the 
valsartan/amlodipine 5 mg dose groups is shallow in A2201. The blood pressure dose response among 
the valsartan monotherapy dose groups was more pronounced and one would have expected a similar 
pattern  among  doses  of  the  combination  as  the  dose  of  valsartan  was  increased.  Therefore,  this 
observed shallow dose response among the valsartan/amlodipine 5 mg dose groups may have been a 
play of chance due to usual variability in the study. The pivotal trials A2305 and A2306 adopted the 
same design. The eligible patients were enrolled into a single-blind monotherapy phase with valsartan 
and  amlodipine  to  identify  non-responders.  These  were  subsequently  randomised  to  continue 
monotherapy  or  shift  to  the  fixed  combinations  of  valsartan/amlodipine  160/5  mg  or  160/10  mg  in 
study A2305 or valsartan/amlodipine 160/10 mg in study A2306. In both studies a significant decrease 
of MSDBP as well as MSSBP at endpoint compared to baseline was evident for all treatment groups. 
In  both  studies  MSDBP  lowering  was  clinically  and  statistically  superior  with  the  combination 
therapies compared to the monotherapies. Furthermore, in study A2305 valsartan/amlodipine 160/10 
mg  was  statistically  superior  in  comparison  to  valsartan/amlodipine  160/5  mg,  although  the  clinical 
significance  of  this  finding  can  be  questioned.  The  mean  changes  in  MSDBP  from  baseline  in  the 
double-blind treatment period monotherapy arms of both studies (which were supposed to be the ‘non-
responders’)  showed  a  clinically  relevant  and  statistically  significant  decrease  over  time  during  the 
double  blind  treatment  period  and  reach  -6.6  and  -10.0mmHg  at  endpoint  for  valsartan  and 
amlodipine,  respectively.  It  can  thus  be  questioned  whether  the  monotherapy  period  to  identify  the 
non-responders  was  sufficiently  long  and  whether  the  non-responders  actually were  identified.  Even 
though  the  add-on  studies  were  not  optimal,  the  guideline’s  claim  of  “a  significant  and  clinically 
relevant additional blood pressure reduction of the combination” in comparison to either monotherapy 
could  be  proven.  From  a  clinical  practice  perspective,  a  physician  will  initiate  therapy  in  a 
hypertensive  patient  with  valsartan  80  mg  monotherapy  and,  depending  on  an  individual  patient’s 
response and target blood pressure goal, may elect to increase the dose to valsartan 160 mg. A next 
logical  step  in  the  titration  scheme  for  this  patient  would  be  the  addition  of  amlodipine  5  mg.  This 
step-wise  approach  is  consistent  with  current  hypertension  treatment  guidelines.  In  addition,  the 
favourable  benefit/risk  profile  of  the  valsartan/amlodipine  160/5  mg  dose  in  this  particular  scenario 
was clearly demonstrated in study A2305.  
©EMEA 2007 
24/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
Valsartan  and  Amlodipine  are  well  known  and  characterized  substances  that  are  being  used  in 
combination. The rational for developing a fixed combination has been to produce either additive or 
synergistic  reductions  in  blood  pressure  compared  to  the  individual  components  with  a  lower 
incidence of side effects. 
•  Patient exposure 
The number of patients treated with the intended dosages overall is in accordance with ICH guideline 
E1A  on  the  population  exposure  to  assess  clinical  safety.  It  should  be  noted  that  only  128  patients 
were exposure to the dosage of 80/5 for a median duration of only 28 days. The hypertension guideline 
states  the  following  “There  is  a  special  need  for  data  in  elderly  patients,  including  specific 
pharmacokinetic  studies,  dose-response  curves  and  safety  data  and  the  number  of  subjects  above  60 
years should be proportional to the frequency of prescriptions.” In order to get a rough estimate of the 
prescription frequency of Dafiro one of its components were chosen. The use of CCA stratified to age 
in Denmark in year 2005 is shown below. These data were obtained from the Register of Medicinal 
Statistics at the Danish Medicines Agency, which is a database that contains figures on the total sale of 
medicinal products in Denmark. 
Prescriptions of Calcium-antagonists (ATC code C08) in the year 2005 in Denmark 
Age (years) 
0-64  
65-74  
> 75  
Total 
Number 
400.831 
277.764 
366.880 
1.045.475 
% 
38,3 
26,6 
35,1 
100,0 
CHMP was aware of the fact that CCA have other indications than HTN, but the figures above reveal 
that more than 60% of the prescriptions have been issued to patients older than 65 years of age. Even 
though the figures are rough estimates for the expected use of Dafiro, they strongly indicate the need 
for further efficacy and safety data in the elderly. Therefore, the applicant was asked for a commitment 
to perform a separate study in elderly patients (see: follow-up measures). 
•  Adverse events  
 A literature search for the combination therapy did not provide any unknown AE or AES. Adverse 
events  by  primary  system  organ  class  generally  show  comparable  incidences  between  the 
valsartan/amlodipine group, the monotherapy groups and the placebo groups. The most frequently 
occurring  AE  in  the  total  valsartan/amlodipine  group  was  peripheral  edema.  It  occurred  at  a 
significantly  lower  incidence  than  in  the  amlodipine  monotherapy  group  (p  =  0.0009).  The 
incidence was higher compared to valsartan monotherapy (p <0.0001) and placebo (p = 0.0301). 
For  the  other  most  common  AEs  of  headache,  nasopharyngitis,  dizziness  and  upper  respiratory 
tract 
the 
valsartan/amlodipine group and the valsartan monotherapy, amlodipine monotherapy, or placebo 
groups. In the table below the incidences of peripheral edema are shown. 
there  was  no  significant  difference  between 
incidence 
infection, 
the 
in 
Incidence of peripheral edema using fixed combination, monotherapy and placebo (Dataset A). 
Valsartan/amlodipine (mg) 
Amlodipine (mg) 
Placebo 
160/10  
n (%)  
999  
90 (9.0)  
160/5  
n (%) 
512  
11 (2.1) 
80/5 
n (%) 
128 
3 (2.3) 
10 
n (%) 
677 
70 (10.8) 
5 
n (%) 
128 
4 (3.1) 
2.5 
n (%) 
125 
10 (8.0) 
n (%) 
337 
10 (3.0) 
Total population  
Edema peripheral  
A  clear  dose-relationship  is  not  apparent  for  peripheral  edema  when  amlodipine  is  used  as  fixed 
combination or as monotherapy. The incidences were higher for the 2.5 and the 10 mg dose group than 
for  the  5  mg  dose  group.  Whether  patients  can  be  managed  on  a  lower  fixed  combination  dose 
©EMEA 2007 
25/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compared  to  monotherapy  with  respect  to  the  incidence  of  adverse  events  is  not  supported  by  this 
application.  
Summary data on safety are provided in tables below. 
Adverse events by preferred term with incidence of 1% or more in the val/aml combination group 
(Applicant’s table 5-5, M2, 2.5, p39) 
Suspected study drug related adverse events (Applicant’s table 5-6, M2, 2.5, p40) 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Only one death occurred during the on-study treatment or follow-up periods of the 5 short-term studies 
(Dataset A) which. was not suspected to be related to study treatment. In addition one death occurred 
©EMEA 2007 
26/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
during the on-study treatment or follow-up periods of the 2 long-term studies (Dataset C) which was 
also not suspected to be related to study treatment.  
36  (0.7%)  patients  (32  on  active  treatment)  in  the  double-blind,  active-  or  placebo  controlled 
population  experienced  an  SAE.  Incidences  were  similar  for  the  different  treatment  groups  and  no 
pattern was evident for any of the treatment groups. 
Summary data on SAEs and discontinuations due to SAEs are provided in table below. 
Deaths, SAEs and discontinuations due to SAEs, dataset A (Applicant’s table 5-8, M2, 2.5, p44) 
•  Laboratory findings 
There were no clinically meaningful changes in the haematology variables. For the clinical chemistry 
variables, the mean changes were generally not remarkable. 
•  Safety in special populations 
An assessment of adverse events by age, gender, and race was conducted in dataset A. The overall AE 
incidence was slightly lower in Caucasian patients compared to those of other races. Peripheral edema 
occurred  slightly  more  frequently  in  female  patients  and  in  those  aged  ≥  65  years  treated  with 
valsartan/amlodipine  or  amlodipine  monotherapy.  No  of  these  findings  raises  any  concern.  The 
analysis  of  efficacy  and  safety  results  indicates  that  there  is  a  need  for  further  data  in  the  elderly. 
Therefore, the applicant was asked for a commitment to perform a separate study in elderly patients 
(see:  follow-up  measures).  A  paediatric  development  plan  is  not  foreseen.  This  is  considered 
acceptable. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The  most  common  AEs  which  led  to  discontinuation  in  the  valsartan  /amlodipine  and  amlodipine 
monotherapy groups were primarily edema-related, in particular peripheral edema. This side effect is 
well known and well described. No other new side effect or shifts in frequencies were observed during 
these studies. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
The  primary  safety  database  included  5175  patients  who  received  at  least  one  dose  of  study 
medication. Of these patients, 2613 received valsartan/amlodipine. In addition, 1649 patients from two 
long-term  open-label  studies  were  considered.  The  overall  incidence  of  AEs  was  similar  in 
valsartan/amlodipine,  valsartan,  amlodipine  and  placebo  patients.  The  overall  incidence  of  adverse 
events was not dose dependent. The most common AEs regardless of relationship to treatment in the 
valsartan/amlodipine group were peripheral oedema, headache, and nasopharyngitis. The incidence of 
peripheral  oedema  was  somewhat  lower  in  the  valsartan/amlodipine  patients  when  compared  to 
amlodipine  alone.  The  most  frequent  AEs  suspected  related  to  study  drug  the  valsartan/amlodipine 
group  were  peripheral  edema  and  headache.  Changes  in  laboratory  parameters  observed  with  the 
combination  of  valsartan/amlodipine  were  modest.  The  overall  incidence  of  serious  AEs  and  AEs 
leading  to  study  discontinuation  in  the  valsartan/amlodipine  group  was  low.  No  significant  new 
adverse events were observed with long-term treatment. The main weakness of the safety database is 
the  lack  of  studies  in  special  populations  and  exclusion  from  the  studies  of  the  more  fragile  part  of 
target  patients.  Overall  is  can  be  concluded  that  the  fixed  combination  of  amlodipine/valsartan  in 
doses of 80/5, 160/5 and 160/10 mg does not cause any safety concerns. 
©EMEA 2007 
27/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.  So far no serious risks for Dafiro have been identified. Based on the results 
from the non-clinical and clinical development program, areas of potential risk and areas with limited 
information have been identified for continued pharmacovigilance. 
The  proposed  pharmacovigilance  plans  by  the  MAA  are  considered  suitable  for  identifying  or 
characterising risks or providing missing information. 
Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP did not require the MAA to submit a risk management plan because FCP tablet consist of 
two well-known substances. 
6.  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
The current clinical development program evaluated the efficacy and safety of Dafiro in a population 
of  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  essential  hypertension  (Grade  1  and  2  in  WHO  classifications) 
whose blood pressure is not adequately controlled on amlodipine or valsartan monotherapy.  
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Two  well-described  compounds  are  proposed  in  combination.  In  the  SHR  model,  additive  lowering 
effect on blood pressure was observed. The combination of amlodipine and valsartan is not expected 
to  display  concerns  in  vitro  safety  pharmacology  studies  (above  reasons  given  by  the  applicant), 
wherefore  non-clinical  safety  pharmacology  studies 
the  combination  are  not  needed.  The 
pharmacokinetics of each of the individual compounds has been sufficiently described; and, as based 
on the toxicokinetics studies of the combination, no significant impact on individual pharmacokinetics 
may  be  anticipated  with  FCP.  The  toxicological  test  species  (rat,  marmoset)  were  substantially 
exposed to both components of the product. Exposure of animals at NOAEL was mostly larger than 
that in humans at the highest dose (320:10), with human exposure multiples ranging from 0.3 to 32.5, 
indicating a moderate safety margin for humans. 
Efficacy 
The targeted  indication for Dafiro is treatment of hypertension where  monotherapy is not sufficient. 
Documentation  of  efficacy  is  based  on  5  pivotal  studies.  The  study  program  demonstrated  that  the 
blood pressure lowering effect of Dafiro 80/5, 160/5 and 160/10 mg compared to their monotherapy 
components and placebo were statistically significantly different from placebo and the monotherapies. 
Both  add-on  studies  (A2305  and  A2306)  showed  a  lowering  of  MSDBP  that  were  clinically  and 
statistically superior with the combination therapy compared to the monotherapies. However, the study 
design  may  have  failed  to  identify  the  “non-responders”  adequately  but  the  guideline’s  claim  of  “a 
significant  and  clinically  relevant  additional  blood  pressure  reduction  of  the  combination”  in 
comparison  to  either  monotherapy  is  fulfilled.  In  study  A2308  in  patients  with  severe  hypertension 
Dafiro  is  used  in  a  first  line  indication  and  not  in  a  second  line  indication,  which  the  MAA  was 
applying  for.  In  the  opinion  of  CHMP  the  data  from  this  study  can  be  however  extrapolated  to  the 
targeted population. The development program of Dafiro included a low number of elderly patients; 
out  of  2600  patients  exposed  to  valsartan/amlodipine  542  patients  were  ≥  65  years  and  only  114 
patients  (4%)  ≥  75  years.  As  this  is  unlikely  to  correspond  to  the  real  life  situation  the  CHMP 
©EMEA 2007 
28/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
proposed  a  commitment  to  confirm  the  efficacy  and  safety  in  an  elderly  population.  Valsartan  and 
Amlodipine  are  well  known  and  characterized  substances  that  are  being  used  concomitantly.  A 
literature search for the concomitant therapy did not provide any unknown AE or AES. 
Safety 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary  of  Product  Characteristics.  Valsartan  and  Amlodipine  are  well  known  and  characterized 
substances that are being used in combination. A literature search for the combination therapy did not 
provide any unknown AE or AES. The study program does not disclose any safety concerns.  
•  User consultation 
The company commit to conduct a new user testing of its PL as one of the follow-up measures. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
The clinical development program for valsartan/amlodipine fixed combination products included the 
bioequivalence  studies  and  phase  III  clinical  efficacy/safety  studies.  In  line  with  the  guidance 
documents (Note for Guidance on Fixed Combination Medicinal Products, CPMP/EWP/240/95; Note 
for  Guidance  on  Clinical  Investigation  of  Medicinal  Products  in  the  Treatment  of  Hypertension, 
CPMP/EWP/238/95 Rev. 2) it consisted of placebo and active controlled studies performed in order to 
justify  the  second  line  use  of  the  fixed  combination  and  the  proposed  dosages.  Bioequivalence  data 
have been provided to bridge from the trial formulations to the intended commercial formulation. The 
application  for  Dafiro  in  the  opinion  of  CHMP  has  a  favourable  risk/benefit  ratio  providing  the 
applicant commits to perform a number of post authorisation follow-up measures to be reported back 
to  the  CHMP  within  predefined  timeframes.  A  justification  for  not  providing  the  risk  management 
plan was submitted by the Applicant. The CHMP did not require the MAA to submit it because FCP 
consist of two well-known substances. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that the routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Dafiro  in  the  treatment  of  essential  hypertension  was 
favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
©EMEA 2007 
29/29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
