European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref: EMEA/CHMP/471165/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Dafiro HCT 
International Nonproprietary Name: amlodipine besylate / valsartan / hydrochlorothiazide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001160 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 6 
Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................................... 11 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 18 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 42 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 42 
2/ 45 
  
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Novartis Europharm Limited submitted on 26 March 2009 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Dafiro  HCT,  through  the  centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (2) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised 
procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 23 October 2008.  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 10(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended – relating to applications new fixed combination products. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: “Treatment of essential hypertension. Dafiro HCT 
is  indicated  as  replacement  therapy  in  patients  whose  blood  pressure  is  adequately  controlled  on 
amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide (HCT) used as individual or combination therapies”. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7, the application included an EMEA Decision P/15/2009 for the following 
condition:  
•  Essential hypertension 
on the granting of a (product-specific) waiver.  
Scientific Advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 19 July 2008 and 31 August 2008. The 
Scientific Advice pertained to clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status: 
A new application for Exforge HCT (amlodipine besylate / valsartan / hydrochlorothiazide) was filed 
in the following countries: USA and Switzerland. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: 
 Steffen Thirstrup 
Co-Rapporteur:  
Alar Irs 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 26 March 2009. 
The procedure started on 29 March 2009.  
This  application  forms  part  of  a  multiple  application  for  amlodipine  besylate  /  valsartan  / 
hydrochlorothiazide.  The  initial  application  was  submitted  by  Novartis  Europharm  Limited 
(EMEA/H/C/1068)  on  4  September  2008.  The  review  process  for  both  applications  has  been 
integrated at the time of the Responses to the List of Questions, allowing the CHMP opinion to 
be adopted in the same timeframe as EMEA/H/C/1068. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 7 May 2009.  
During the CHMP meeting on 26-29 May 2009 the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues 
to be addressed in writing by the applicant.  
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP list of outstanding issues on 22 June 2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the updated Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to 
the list of outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 7 July 2009. 
During the meeting on 20-23 July 2009 the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
3/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation to Dafiro HCT on 23 July 2009. The applicant provided the letter of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 22 July 2009.  
4/ 45 
 
 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Hypertension  affects  approximately  1  billion  subjects  worldwide  and  the  prevalence  in  Europe  has 
been  estimated  to  be  approximately  44%,  in  some  countries  reaching  up  to  55%.  Uncontrolled 
hypertension is seen as a major health risk, increasing the probabilities of myocardial infarction, heart 
failure,  stroke,  kidney  disease  and  other  severe  conditions.  The  7th  Report  of  the  Joint  National 
Committee  on  Prevention,  Detection,  Evaluation,  and  Treatment  of  High  Blood  Pressure  has 
recommended  that  blood  pressure  be  reduced  below  140/90  mmHg  when  treating  hypertensive 
patients  in  general,  and  to  even  lower  levels  (<130/80  mmHg)  in  patients  with  serious  concomitant 
conditions  such  as  diabetes  and  chronic  kidney  disease.  The  hypertension  guidelines  issued  by  the 
European Society of Hypertension and European Society of Cardiology give similar targets.  
Monotherapy is rarely sufficient to normalise blood pressure.  Data from clinical trials indicated that 
after  5  years  of  patient  follow  up,  the  percent  of  patients  with  controlled  blood  pressure  was  66%; 
however, 63% of patients required administration of three or more antihypertensive drugs and 27% of 
patients required four or more antihypertensive drugs. Poor treatment effect in real life conditions can 
be  attributed  to  multiple  factors,  including  among  others  poor  compliance  with  medication  and 
underutilisation of effective drug combinations. Fixed combination antihypertensive agents represent a 
therapeutic  alternative  to  high  dose  monotherapy  or  to  free  combinations  of  multiple  drugs.    A 
potential advantage of fixed dose combination therapy is improved patient compliance by reducing the 
multiple  pill  load  and  simplifying  the  treatment  regimen,  although  the  clinical  relevance  of  this 
assumed benefit has been clearly established. 
The  currently  presented  triple  combination  of  valsartan,  an  angiotensin  receptor  blocker  (ARB), 
amlodipine, a calcium channel blocker (CCB), and hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic, could be 
an appropriate choice for management of some forms of hypertension as the mechanisms of action of 
the  three  drugs  are  complementary.    Hydrochlorothiazide  is  a  diuretic  that  produces  smooth  muscle 
cell  relaxation  and  volume  depletion.    Hypokalaemia  is  a  known  side  effect  of  thiazide  diuretic 
therapy.  The  addition  of  an  ARB  to  a  thiazide  diuretic  has  a  potentially  synergistic  effect  on  blood 
pressure  reduction  by  blocking  the  actions  of  angiotensin  II  at  the  AT1 receptor  and  also attenuates 
diuretic-induced hypokalaemia.  The addition of a dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker, which is 
an arterial vasodilator, reduces blood pressure further. Apart from this, the ARB has the potential to 
diminish the peripheral oedema known to occur with dihydropyridine CCBs by providing both arterial 
and venous vasodilatation. 
Valsartan  (VAL)  monotherapy  was  first  developed  for  the  treatment  of  hypertension  and  has  been 
marketed in Europe in doses of 80-160 mg since 1996 and in the highest dose of 320 mg since 2006. 
Valsartan has also been approved and marketed for the treatment of patients with chronic heart failure 
since 2002 and patients with post-myocardial infarction since 2005 in total daily doses up to 320 mg. 
Valsartan has also been marketed in Europe as a fixed combination with hydrochlorothiazide and with 
amlodipine (AML) since 1998 and 2007, respectively. 
Amlodipine  monotherapy  is  approved  for  the  treatment  of  hypertension  and  angina,  and  in  some 
countries for angiographically documented coronary artery disease and is available in doses of 5 and 
10  mg.  In  some  countries,  amlodipine  is  used  once  daily  in  2.5  mg  doses  for  special  patient 
populations. 
Hydrochlorothiazide  (HCT)  monotherapy  has  been  marketed  since  1959  and  is  approved  for  the 
treatment  of  hypertension  and  oedema.    It  has  been  used  alone  or  in  combination  with  other 
antihypertensive agents in once daily doses of 12.5 -25 mg. 
In Europe, the fixed-dose combination of VAL/HCT has been marketed for hypertension at the lower 
doses of VAL since 1998 and at the higher dose of VAL 320 mg in combination with HCT since 2007. 
5/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  fixed  combination  of  VAL/AML  with  doses  of  VAL  80  and  160  mg  has  been  marketed  for 
hypertension in Europe since 2007.  
The claimed indication is: 
Treatment of essential hypertension. 
Dafiro HCT is indicated as replacement therapy in patients whose blood pressure is adequately 
controlled on amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide (HCT) used as individual or combination 
therapies. 
The approved indication is: 
Treatment of essential hypertension as substitution therapy in adult patients whose blood pressure is 
adequately controlled on the combination of amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide (HCT), 
taken either as three single-component formulations or as a dual-component and a single-component 
formulation. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Dafiro HCT is a fixed combination medicinal product, containing three active substances: amlodipine 
(as the besylate salt), valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide, and is presented as film-coated tablets. Five 
strengths  have  been  developed.  The  tablets  contain  5/160/12.5  mg,  10/160/12.5  mg,  5/160/25  mg, 
10/160/25 mg or 10/320/25 mg of amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide, respectively. 
The  tablet  core  contains  besides  the  active  substances  the  following  excipients;  cellulose 
microcrystalline, crospovidone, colloidal anhydrous silica and magnesium stearate. The tablet coating 
contains hypromellose, macrogol 4000 and talc and one or more colorants. The colorants used depend 
on  the  tablet  strength  and  are  titanium  dioxide,  yellow  iron  oxide  or  red  iron  oxide.  The  medicinal 
product is packed in PVC/PVDC blisters. 
Active Substance  
Amlodipine besylate 
Amlodipine is the INN for the chemical substance 3- Ethyl- 5- methyl (4RS)- 2- [(2- 
aminoethoxy) methyl]- 4- (2- chlorophenyl)- 6- methyl- 1, 4- dihydropyridine- 3, 5- dicarboxylate 
benzenesulphonate  (anhydrous  substance).  The  molecular  formula  is  C26H31ClN2O8S·C6H5SO3H  and 
the  relative  molecular  mass  567.06  g/mol.  There  is  a  monograph  for  amlodipine  besylate  in the  Ph. 
Eur. The active substance is well known and has been adequately characterised. It is a white or 
almost white powder. The racemic mixture of R and S isomers is used. It is slightly soluble in water, 
freely soluble in methanol, sparingly soluble in ethanol and slightly soluble in 2-propanol. There is no 
solid-state polymorphism of amlodipine besylate described in the literature. 
• Manufacture 
Amlodipine  besylate  drug  substance  is  supplied  by  three  manufacturers.  Certificates  of  suitability 
(CEP)  for  manufacturing  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  have  been  provided  for  the  three 
manufacturers. 
• Specification 
Amlodipine  besylate  from  each  supplier  is  controlled  according  to  the  requirements  of  the  Ph.  Eur. 
monograph  with  additional  requirements  as  stated  on  the  CEP.  The  satisfactory  quality  is  generally 
ensured through the CEP. However, in addition to these tests the MAH included additional tests in his 
drug  substance  specifications.  These  test  include  tests  for  particle  size  (laser  light  diffraction), 
identification  (X-ray  powder  diffraction),  heavy  metals  (ICP/OES),  residual  solvents  (GC),  specific 
limits for any impurity other than those mentioned in the Ph.Eur monograph (HPLC) and a microbial 
limit  test  (plate  count  method).  Adequate  validation  of  the  additional  in-house  methods  has  been 
performed. 
6/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• Stability 
Only  one  drug  substance  supplier  has  a  retest  period  included  in  the  CEP.  The  other  two  suppliers 
provided long-term and accelerated stability data in order to establish an acceptable retest period. 
At one manufacturer, amlodipine besylate batches have been stored at 25°C/60% RH for 9 months and 
at 40°C/75% RH for 6 months in simulated commercial packaging. For this manufacturer, the MAH 
committed to test the drug substance each time before use in the drug product until a re-test period has 
been established. 
At the other manufacturer batches have been stored at 25°C/60% RH for 12-18 months and 40°C/75% 
RH  for  6  months  in  simulated  commercial  packaging.  For  this  manufacturer,  the  proposed  re-test 
period was found acceptable. 
Both  manufacturers  tested  the  following  parameters  in  their  stability  studies:  appearance,  related 
substances by HPLC, water content and assay by HPLC. Optical rotation was checked additionally by 
one  supplier.  No  significant  changes  were  seen  during  storage.  All  results  complied  with  the 
specifications at both long term and accelerated conditions. 
Active Substance 
Valsartan 
Valsartan is the INN for the chemical substance (S)-2-{N-(1-oxopentyl)-N-[[2’-(1H-tetrazol-5-yl)- 
[1,1’-biphenyl]-4-yl]methyl]-amino}-3-methyl-butyric acid. The molecular formula is C24H29N5O3 
and the relative molecular mass 435.5 g/mol. There is no Ph. Eur. monograph for valsartan. Valsartan 
is a white to practically white, fine powder, melting at 105-110 °C with decomposition. Its solubility 
in water is 0.18 mg/ml and in 0.1N HCl 0.084 mg/ml. 
There is one chiral centre in the valine moiety of the molecule but essentially the pure (S)-enantiomer 
is used. The assigned (S)-configuration is defined from the synthetic origin ((L)-valine). 
Its optical activity is [α]D/20 = -67±1° in methanol. X-ray powder analysis rated valsartan samples as 
poorly crystalline. No solid-state polymorphism is known to exist for valsartan. 
• Manufacture 
The  manufacturing  route  comprises  five  consecutive  synthetic  steps  and  two  auxiliary  steps  for 
reagent preparation. Purification is achieved by recrystallisation. The synthesis process of valsartan is 
well known and has been used for many years. Only slight modifications have been made to further 
improve the quality. 
No  process  validation  is  necessary  as  the  synthesis  is  well  established  and  the  substance  does  not 
undergo aseptic processing or sterilization. 
Adequate  in  process  controls  are  in  place  and  appropriate  specifications  have  been  adopted  for  the 
starting  materials,  solvents,  reagents  and  auxiliary  materials.  All  relevant  impurities  (related 
substances, degradation products) and residual solvents have been appropriately characterized.  
• Specification 
The valsartan specification includes tests for appearance (visual examination), absorbance (420 nm), 
clarity  of  the  solution  in  methanol,  particle  size  (laser  light  diffraction),  identity  (IR,  HPLC), 
enantiomer (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), water content (KF), sulphated ash, heavy metals (X-ray 
fluorescence),  assay  based  on  anhydrous  and  solvent-free  substance  (HPLC,  titration),  related 
substances  (HPLC),  and  microbial  limit  test  (plate  count  method).  Appropriate  justification  of  the 
specifications for valsartan has been provided. 
• Stability 
13 production scale batches have been stored at 25 °C /60 % RH for up to 36 months. In addition 7 of 
these batches have been stored at 30 °C /60 % RH, for up to 9 months and at 40 °C /75 % RH up to 6 
months in the proposed market packaging. In addition, another 3 batches from an alternative 
manufacturing site have been stored at 25 °C /60 % RH for 36 months and at 40 °C /75 % RH for 6 
months in the proposed market packaging. The following parameters were investigated: appearance, 
assay and related substances, specific rotation in methanol, clarity of solution in methanol, absorbance 
and  water.  It  can  be  concluded  that  valsartan  is  very  stable.  All  batches  comply  with  the  proposed 
7/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
specification  at  all  storage  conditions.  The  proposed  retest  period  is  considered  acceptable  in  the 
proposed containers, without special requirements for storage. 
Active Substance 
Hydrochlorothiazide 
Hydrochlorothiazide  is  the  INN  for 
the  chemical  substance  6-Chloro-3,4-dihydro-2H-1,2,4-
benzothiadiazine-7-sulfonamide 1,1-dioxide. The molecular formula is C7H8ClN3O4S2 and the relative 
molecular  mass  297.74  g/mol.  There 
is  a  Ph.  Eur.  monograph  for  hydrochlorothiazide. 
Hydrochlorothiazide  is  a  white  to  almost  white  powder,  melting  at  263-275  °C.  It  is  very  slightly 
soluble in water and in 0.1N HCl. It doesn’t possess an asymmetric center and is therefore non-chiral. 
It  exists  in  only  one,  optically  inactive  form.  Hydrochlorothiazide  does  not  absorb  water  at  relative 
humidity below 97% at 23°C. Polymorphism is known to exist for hydrochlorothiazide. 
•  Manufacture 
Hydrochlorothiazide  drug  substance  is  supplied  by  two  manufacturers.  A  certificate  of  suitability 
(CEP) for manufacturing and control of the drug substance has been provided for one manufacturer. 
For the second manufacturer, adequate information about the manufacturing, control of materials and 
control of critical manufacturing steps has been supplied in the form of an active substance master file 
(ASMF).  The  commercially  available  hydrochlorothiazide  is  further  purified  by  the  MAH. 
Appropriate  specifications  have  been  adopted  for  the  starting  materials,  solvents,  reagents  and 
auxiliary  materials.  All  relevant  impurities,  degradation  products  and  residual  solvents  have  been 
appropriately characterized.  
Specification 
• 
The  drug  substance  manufacturer’s  specifications  comply  with  the  Ph  Eur  monograph.  However,  in 
addition  to  these  tests  the  MAH  applies  in-house  specifications.  These  include  tests  for  appearance 
(visual examination), clarity and absorbance of the solution in dimethyl sulfoxide, particle size (air-jet 
sieving), consumption of NaOH and HCl (colouration), identity (IR, UV), assay and related substances 
(HPLC),  residual  solvents  (GC),  organic  volatile  impurities,  loss  on  drying,  sulphated  ash,  heavy 
metals (sulphide precipitation, AAS) and microbial limit test (plate count method). All specifications 
are considered adequate and the analytical procedures have been satisfactorily described and validated 
in  accordance  with  the  ICH  guidelines.  The  impurity  limits  are  acceptable  and  there  is  no  concern 
from  the  point  of  view  of  safety.  Batch  analysis  data  have  been  presented  and  all  batches  were  in 
compliance with the predefined active substance specification. 
Stability 
• 
One  hydrochlorothiazide  manufacturer  has  a  re-test  period  included  in  the  CEP.  The  second 
hydrochlorothiazide  manufacturer  provided  long-term  and  accelerated  stability  data  in  order  to 
establish  an  acceptable  retest  period.  Three  production  scale  batches  have  been  stored  at  25°C/60% 
RH for 48 months and at 40°C/75% RH for 6 months in the proposed market packaging. 
The following parameters were investigated: characters, acidity, chlorides, related substances, loss on 
drying, sulphated ash and assay. No significant changes are seen during storage at either long-term or 
accelerated  conditions.  Additionally,  the  hydrochlorothiazide  manufacturer  performed  a  forced 
degradation study on 3 batches. These were stored at 80°C for 10 days. No significant changes were 
seen.  
Furthermore, the MAH  has  performed  stability  studies  under  long  term  (5  years)  and  accelerated (6 
months) conditions on eight batches micronised hydrochlorothiazide. The following parameters were 
investigated:  appearance,  clarity  and  absorbance  of  solution  in  dimethyl  sulfoxide,  consumption  of 
NaOH and of HCl (colouration), loss on drying, related substances (TLC, HPLC) and assay (titration, 
HPLC).  It  was  concluded  that  the  retest  period  proposed  for  hydrochlorothiazide,  micronized  is 
considered acceptable in the proposed containers, when protected from light. 
8/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal Product  
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The aim of formulation development was to develop an immediate release tablet combination product 
that  would  be  bioequivalent  to  the  marketed  medicinal  products  containing  each  drug  substance 
individually. 
The development of Dafiro HCT was based upon the formulation and manufacturing process of the 
already  authorized  amlopidine/valsartan  and  valsartan  /hydrochlorothiazide  film-coated  tablets, 
because of the applicant’s extensive knowledge of these formulations. The drug product is presented 
as ovaloid, biconvex film coated tablets (white, yellow or brown-yellow). Five formulations have been 
developed, containing 5/160/12.5 mg, 10/160/12.5 mg, 5/160/25 mg, 10/160/25 mg or 10/320/25 mg 
of amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide, respectively. 
During  the  development  phase,  the  MAH  evaluated  adequately  the  compatibility  of  the  three  active 
substances by intermixing followed by storing. The excipients selected for Dafiro HCT are standard 
ingredients  in  tablet  formulations,  and  meet  the  Ph.  Eur  requirements.  The  concentration  of  each 
excipient is within the usual range of application. The compatibility of the drug substances with the 
excipients has been investigated during the development of the film-coated tablets; stability has been 
demonstrated.  
The tablet cores are coated with a non-functional coating to provide a distinctive tablet colour to aid in 
the identification of assorted tablet strengths and to mask the slightly bitter taste of the valsartan drug 
substance.  The  basic  coating  premixes  (yellow,  white  and  red)  are  a  combination  of  ingredients 
established for use in medicinal products.  A monograph for the premixes themselves does not appear 
in any pharmacopoeia; however, the basic coating premix ingredients meet compendial requirements 
and international standards.  
Two bioequivalence studies have been performed. The studies determined the relative bioavailability 
of  the  5/160/12.5  mg  and  10/160/25  mg    amlodipine/valsartan/HCT  film-coated  tablets  with  the 
corresponding  doses  used  in  the  pivotal  safety/efficacy  trial.  For  the  three  other  strengths,  5/160/25 
mg, 10/160/12.5 mg and 10/320/25 mg, comparative dissolution data has been provided to support the 
biowaivers. 
Comparative  dissolution  profiles  for  amlodipine  besylate,  valsartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide  drug 
substances  were  obtained  with  Dafiro  HCT  film-coated  tablets  in  three  different  media,  pH  6.8 
(phosphate  buffer),  pH  4.5  (acetate  buffer)  and  pH  1.0  (0.1N  HCl).  The  dissolution  tests  were 
performed using USP apparatus 2 (paddle) at 50 rpm. For the 10/320/25 mg strength dissolution was 
carried  out  at  50  rpm  and  at  55  rpm.  Adequate  justification  has  been  provided  to  support  the 
dissolution  conditions.  Dissolution  profiles  and  f2  similarity  factors  were  calculated  for  each 
combination of tablets tested (5/160/25 mg vs. 10/160/25 mg, 10/160/12.5 mg vs. 5/160/12.5 mg and 
10/320/25 mg vs. 5/160/12.5 mg). In all cases the similarity factor was between 50 and 100 suggesting 
that the dissolution profiles are similar. 
Adventitious agents 
• 
None of the excipients are of human or animal origin, therefore there is no BSE/TSE risk.  
Manufacture of the Product 
• 
The  process  used  for  the  manufacture  of  Dafiro  HCT  film  coated  tablets  is  based  on  the  marketed 
medicinal  products  containing  valsartan,  valsartan/hydrochlorothiazide  and  valsartan/amlodipine 
besylate,  which  are  presented  as  mono-layer  film-coated  tablets.  The  manufacturing  process  is  a 
standard  dry  granulation  process  including  pre-blending,  roller  compaction,  screening,  final  blend, 
compression and film coating. The manufacturing process has been demonstrated to be robust and to 
produce a finish product of the desired quality within the agreed finished product specification. 
9/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product Specification 
• 
The specification for Dafiro HCT includes tests for: appearance (visual examination), identification of 
amlodipine,  valsartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide  (TLC,  HPLC),  identification  of  colourants  (colour 
reaction),  dissolution  (HPLC),  water,  degradation  products  of  amlodipine,  valsartan  and 
hydrochlorothiazide  (HPLC);  assay  for  amlodipine,  valsartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide  (HPLC), 
uniformity of dosage units (Ph. Eur), and Microbial limit tests. 
All tests included in the specification have been satisfactorily described and validated, according to the 
state  of  the  art.  Appropriate  data  have  been  presented  to  justify  the  release  specifications  for  each 
quality characteristic that is controlled. Impurities and degradation products have been evaluated and 
found  to  be  acceptable  from  the  point  of  view  of  safety.  Batch  analysis  results  comply  with  the 
proposed  specification  and  confirm  consistency  &  uniformity  of  manufacture  and  indicate  that  the 
process is under control 
•  Stability of the Product 
Three pilot scale batches of each strength have been stored at long term conditions (25ºC/60% RH for 
18  months), at  intermediate  conditions  (30°C/65%  RH  for 18  months)  and  at  accelerated  conditions 
(40ºC/75% RH for 6 months) in the proposed market packaging (DPX blisters and alu-alu blisters). 
The  parameters  investigated  were:  appearance  (visual  examination),  water  content  (KF),  dissolution 
(HPLC), assay and related substances for amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide (HPLC) and 
microbial limits test. 
At  long  term  and  intermediate  conditions  no  significant  changes  were  seen  during  storage  for  18 
months. The degradation products were seen in a level of not more than the reporting level of 0.1%, 
neither the assay did change during storage. The dissolution did not change during storage for any of 
the active substances. 
At  accelerated  conditions  no  significant  changes  in  assay  values,  degradation  products  nor  in 
dissolution  were  observed  within  the  first  three  months.  In  the  DPX  blisters,  however,  significant 
water absorption was observed as DPX packaging offers the least resistance to moisture permeation. 
As  Dafiro  HCT  tablets  are  known  to  be  hygroscopic,  the  film  coating  can  crack  due  to  tablet 
expansion. 
In  addition,  a  photostability  study  has  been  carried  out  with  each  tablet  strength,  in  which  it  was 
shown  that  the  tablets  are  sensitive  to  light.  However,  it  has  been  demonstrated  that  the  proposed 
blister packaging adequately protects the finished product from light. 
On the basis of the provided data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions, as stated in the SPC, 
are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
The  quality  of  Dafiro  HCT  is  adequately  established.  In  general,  satisfactory  chemical  and 
pharmaceutical  documentation  has  been  submitted  for  marketing  authorisation.  There  are  no  major 
deviations from EU and ICH requirements. 
The  synthesis  of  the  active  substances  amlodipine  besylate,  valsartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide  is 
adequately  described  and  impurities  are  characterised,  in  line  with  current  ICH  guidelines.  The 
manufacturing process of the medicinal product Dafiro HCT is under control and ensures both batch to 
batch  reproducibility  and  compliance  with  standard  procedures  and  specifications.  The  analytical 
methods  have  been  validated  and  ensure  consistent  quality  of  the  active  substance  and  the  finished 
product. Certificates of Suitability and stability data on the active substances support the proposed re-
testing period, and the stability data on the finished product support the shelf life as stated in the SPC. 
In  conclusion,  information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  active  substance  and 
medicinal  product  have  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out 
indicate satisfactory consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these 
in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in 
the clinic. 
10/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the time of the Opinion there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having no impact 
on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product. The applicant signed a Letter of Undertaking and committed 
to resolve these as Follow Up Measures after the opinion, within an agreed timeframe. 
2.3 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Dafiro  HCT  is  a  new  medicinal  product  for  the  treatment  of  hypertension,  which  combines  a  well 
known  and  marketed  calcium  channel  blocker  amlodipine,  an  angiotensin  II  receptor  antagonist 
valsartan (VAL), and a thiazide diuretic hydrochlorothiazide (HCT). The guideline on the non-clinical 
development of fixed combinations of medicinal products (CHMP/SWP/258498/2005) concludes that 
additional  animal  studies  are  generally  not  needed  if  there  is  sufficiently  documented  clinical 
experience,  although  some  aspects  may  still  need  to  be  addressed.  No  primary  pharmacodynamic 
studies  were  conducted  with  valsartan,  amlodipine  and  hydrochlorothiazide  as  triple  combination 
product. This is deemed acceptable as the combinations VAL/AML and VAL/HCT showed sufficient 
additive  effects  in  vivo,  HCT  has  been  used  as  a  diuretic  for  a  substantial  time  and  the 
VAL/AML/HCT  combination  therapy  is  also  anticipated  to  be  additive  due  to  the  complementary 
mechanisms of action of the three drug classes. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Reference was made to literature suggesting the additive effect of HCT and/or AML, and/or VAL on 
the blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR).  
In  the  first  study  combination  of  4  mg/kg/day  of  AML  and  10  mg/kg/day  of  VAL  caused  a  similar 
decrease  in  blood  pressure  as  8  mg/kg/day  of  AML  or  20  mg/kg/day  of  VAL  when  the  drugs  were 
used separately. Another study evaluated progression of diabetic nephropathy in streptozoticin treated 
SHR. Following the induction of diabetes, the animals were treated with VAL, AML, verapamil, or 
combinations  of  VAL  with  AML  or  verapamil  for  32  weeks.  VAL  (30  mg/kg/day),  AML  (6 
mg/kg/day),  and  a  combination  of  VAL/AML  (20/4  mg/kg/day)  caused  a  similar  reduction  of  the 
blood  pressure.  However,  only  VAL  as  monotherapy  had  any  effect  on  progression  of  the 
nephropathy. Thus, blockade of the renin-angiotensin system is superior to calcium channel blockade 
to  retard  the  development  of  albuminuria  and  it  is  debated  whether  there  is  a  threshold  of  renin-
angiotensin  system  blockage  necessary  to  achieve  renal  protection.  Although  the  main  rationale  for 
VAL/AML/HCT  combination  must  be  derived  from  clinical  experience,  the  CHMP  questioned  the 
preclinical  findings  reported  in  the  diabetes  induced  rats  treated  with  the  combination  of  VAL  and 
AML  and  questioned  whether  this  combination  is  a  suitable  alternative  for  the  treatment  of 
hypertension  in  diabetic  patients.  In  response  it  was  argued  that  although  there  is  no  original  study 
specifically  studying  this  triple  combination  in  hypertensive  patients  with  diabetes,  it  is  possible  to 
derive  clinical  data  from  other  clinical  study  that  included  this  subpopulation.  These  suggest  that 
VAL/AML/HCT may be a suitable for the treatment of hypertension in diabetic patients. In addition, 
the screening safety data for new signals is proposed by means pharmacovigilance programme in order 
to handle possible VAL/AML/HCT adverse effects in clinical practice.  
Further non clinical testing tested VAL alone or in combination with HCT administered continuously 
to SHRs. VAL given at doses of 1 and 3 mg/kg/day, showed significant, dose-dependent reductions in 
mean arterial pressure. Treatment with HCT (3 and 10 mg/kg/day) also significantly lowered the mean 
arterial pressure, but this response was not dose-dependent. Additive blood pressure-lowering effects 
were observed when a low dose VAL (1 mg/kg/day) was co-administered with either dose of HCT (3 
and 10 mg/kg/day). The effect of chronic combination therapy using VAL and AML has been assessed 
previously; a 6-week and a 32 week study in the SHR model showed additive lowering effect of VAL 
and  AML  on  blood  pressure.  Overall,  the  above-referenced  studies  in  the  SHR  models  clearly 
demonstrated additive lowering effect on blood pressure.  
11/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
the  combination  of 
No  secondary  pharmacodynamic  studies  have  been  conducted  with 
VAL/AML/HCT. This is acceptable due to the clinical experience with the individual compounds and 
the double drug combinations. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
No safety pharmacology studies have been conducted with the combination of VAL/AML/HCT. This 
was  considered  acceptable  due  to  the  clinical  experience  with the  use  of  the  individual  compounds. 
Although the evaluation of cardiovascular safety end point could have been included into the bridging 
toxicity  study,  this  was  conducted  in  rodents  (see  section  Toxicology)  and  thus,  the  inclusion  of 
cardiovascular safety end point is not relevant for human safety assessment. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No pharmacodynamic interaction studies have been conducted with VAL/AML/HCT combination. It 
is acceptable since the three compounds in the combination are well known due to sufficient clinical 
experience and the additive effects of the compounds are the intention of the combination. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Valsartan/Amlodipine/Hydrochlorothiazide 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  the  triple  combination  has  not  been  specifically  investigated  in  animal 
ADME studies but has been characterised and compared to single drug treatment in a 13-week toxicity 
study  in  rats.  Even  though  differences  in  pharmacokinetics/toxicokinetics  could  not  be  completely 
excluded  in  the  13-week  toxicity  study  (see  the  Toxicology  section),  the  lack  of  pharmacokinetic 
interactions  between  the  three  compounds  in  the  triple  combination  has  been  confirmed  by  clinical 
data.  No  further  non-clinical  investigations  are  requested.  A  brief  summary  of  the  pharmacokinetic 
properties of the individual components is provided.  
Absorption and Distribution 
Amlodipine: Oral doses of AML were well absorbed in mice, rats and dogs, and were gradually but 
nearly completely absorbed in man. In healthy adult volunteers following a single oral dose of 15 mg 
14C-labeled AML, appearance of AML and total drug-related material in the plasma was gradual with 
peak  concentrations  attained  around  6-9  hours.  The  absolute  oral  bioavailability  was  comparatively 
high in humans (64%), dogs (88%), mice (100%) and rats (100%). There was no influence of food on 
the absorption or bioavailability of AML in humans. AML is highly bound to human plasma proteins 
(>94% in rats, dogs and humans) and highly distributed into tissues with a large volume of distribution 
around 21-32 l/kg across species. 
Valsartan:  Valsartan  is  absorbed  to  a  moderate  extent  (41%)  in  rat.  The  extent  of  absorption  in 
marmoset  and  human  was  similar,  but  is  not  exactly  known.  Exposure  to  VAL  increased  dose-
dependently and partly dose-proportionally. VAL was highly bound to proteins of plasma (>90% in 
several species including rats and humans). In humans, the steady-state volume of distribution of VAL 
after intravenous administration was small (17 l), indicating that VAL does not distribute into tissues 
extensively. This also confirmed the results of the radiolabelled distribution studies conducted in rats, 
since  high  levels  of  radioactivity  were  observed  in  blood,  plasma,  liver  and  kidneys  with  only  low 
levels in all other investigated organs. VAL and/or its metabolites pass through the placental barrier of 
the  pregnant  rat.  Distinct  uptake  of  VAL  and/or  its  metabolites  in  rat’s  mammary  glands  were 
consistent with the observed excretion into the milk of lactating rats. 
Hydrochlorothiazide: Hydrochlorothiazide was well absorbed in animal species and humans, and was 
largely  excreted  in  unchanged  form  in  urine.  Systemic  exposure  (AUC,  Cmax)  in  human  was  dose-
proportional within the therapeutic dose range. Absolute oral bioavailability was 65% to 75%. Food 
reduces the bioavailability of HCT by approximately 10% and the Cmax by 20% and increases the tmax 
from 1.6 to 2.9 hours.  
12/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  humans,  the  pharmacokinetics  of  VAL,  HCT  and  AML  have  been  well  characterised  when 
administered alone or when administered as the double combinations (VAL/HCT or AML/VAL), or 
when administered as the triple combination (AML/VAL/HCT).  
Metabolism 
Amlodipine:  In  animals  and  humans,  AML  was  eliminated  mainly  through  extensive,  though  slow 
metabolism and with low first pass extraction. Metabolism was catalyzed mainly by hepatic CYP3A4 
and  was  similar  in  rats,  dogs,  mice  and  humans.  No  metabolite  showed  significant  calcium  channel 
antagonist  activity.  Only  a  small  fraction  of  the  dose  (up  to  5%)  was  recovered  in  the  urine  as 
unchanged  drug.  In  human,  rat  and  dog,  the  first  step  of  metabolism  was  oxidation  of  the 
dihydropyridine ring of the racemic compound to the pyridine analogue. Further metabolism involved 
oxidation/hydrolysis  of  the  side-chain  ester(s)  and  oxidation/degradation  of  the  amino-ethoxymethyl 
side chain. 
Valsartan:  The  oxidative  in  vivo  biotransformation  in  rats,  dogs,  marmosets  and  humans  is  limited. 
VAL is predominantly excreted unchanged in urine and faeces of all species including humans. The 
metabolites present in the excreta include the tetrazole-N-glucose conjugate and the tetrazole biphenyl 
methanoic acid derivative in mice, and the 4-hydroxy-pentanoyl metabolite in marmosets, which is the 
same as the one seen in humans. Two metabolites were detected in the rat liver. Each accounted for 
less than 8.4% of the radioactivity in the liver 8 hours after dosing. One of these metabolites was acyl 
glucuronide.  
Hydrochlorothiazide: In humans, HCT is not metabolized to a relevant degree and >95% of the dose is 
excreted unchanged in urine.  
In  summary,  metabolism  of  VAL  and  AML  has  been  sufficiently  investigated  for  each  compound 
individually.  As  HCT  is  only  metabolised  in  humans  to  a  limited  degree  (<5%),  animal  additional 
metabolic studies are not considered necessary.  
Excretion 
Amlodipine: In rats, 33-38% of the dose can be recovered in the urine and 58-60% in faeces. In both 
male and female dogs, 38-51% of the dose is recovered in the urine and 38-49% in the faeces. The 
recovery  of  radioactivity  in  urine  and  faeces  was  similar  after  both  oral  and  intravenous 
administration,  indicating  good  absorption  of  the  drug  from  the  gastrointestinal  tract.  Overall,  dose 
recovery was 91-98% in rats and 85-91% in dogs within seven days of dose administration.  
Valsartan:  In  rats,  94%-97%  of  the  dose  was  recovered  in  the faeces. VAL  has  also  been  shown  to 
undergo  enterohepatic  recirculation  in  dogs.  The  renal  excretion  of  VAL-related  radioactivity  was 
more pronounced in marmosets (up to 16% of the dose) than in rats (less than 2.5% of the dose). In all 
species  investigated  VAL  was  mainly  excreted  unchanged.  The  mechanism  of  the  hepatobiliary 
elimination of VAL, which is a di-anion at physiological pH, was investigated in normal and mrp2-
deficient rats in vivo Tr-rat and EHBR rat. VAL elimination with bile depended to about 50% on the 
presence  of  canalicular  mrp2  (cMOAT)  and  it  was  shown  to  be  a  substrate  of  mrp2.  At  least  an 
additional ATP-dependent transporter, probably of the mrp family contributes to elimination. VAL did 
not interact with bile acid transport or with Pgp (mdr1). Using transfected cells, VAL was shown to be 
a substrate of the hepatic uptake transporters OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. 
Hydrochlorothiazide: Orally administered HCT is excreted largely unchanged in the urine of animals. 
In humans, >95% of the absorbed HCT was excreted in urine within 4 days. The drug is secreted from 
the renal proximal tubules after cellular uptake by basolateral organic anion transporter-1 (OAT1).  
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
Amlodipine:  Amlodipine is  eliminated  mainly  through  metabolism  by  hepatic  CYP3A4.  Potentially, 
co-medications  might  interact  with  AML  by  inhibition  or  induction  of  CYP3A4.  Conversely,  AML 
might  interact  with  co-medications,  via  CYP  isoenzymes  involved  in  their  metabolism.  In  in  vitro 
studies using several human CYP isoforms AML showed a strong competitive inhibition of CYP1A1 
with a Ki value of 0.13 µM, and a moderate inhibition of CYP2B6 with a Ki of 1.95 µM. The steady-
13/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
state  human  plasma  Cmax  of  AML  following  10  mg  once  daily  doses  was  around  0.062  µM, 
corresponding  to  I/Ki  values  of  0.5  and  0.03  for  CYP1A1  and  CYP2B6,  respectively.  These  I/Ki 
values  suggest  a  moderate  to  low  potential  of  AML  to  inhibit  CYP1A1-  and/or  CYP2B6-mediated 
metabolic  clearance.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  AML  was  not  changed  by  grapefruit  juice,  which 
inhibits CYP3A4 and MDR1 in the gut, or by the CYP3A substrate sildenafil. Cimetidine, telmisartan 
and benazepril did not significantly alter the pharmacokinetics of AML. The potent CYP3A inhibitor 
dilthiazem caused an increase in plasma Cmax and AUC of AML by up to 57% and the combined HIV 
protease inhibitors indinavir and ritonavir, strong inhibitors of CYP3A, increased the AUC of AML by 
90%. AML did not affect the pharmacokinetics of the cardiovascular drugs digoxin but increased the 
AUC  and  Cmax  of  the  hypocholesteremic  drug  simvastatin  by  28%  and  43%,  respectively,  though 
without an effect on cholesterol. It caused a minor increase of cyclosporine A plasma levels.  
Valsartan: Valsartan was mainly cleared through biliary excretion, and the contribution of metabolism 
was  minor.  Cytochrome  P450  (CYP)  2C9  is  the  main  enzyme  responsible  for  the  formation  of  the 
4-hydroxyvaleryl  metabolite  of  valsartan  in  human  liver  microsomes,  a  minor  metabolite  identified 
also in human faeces (9% of oral dose). Although CYP 2C9 is involved in valsartan metabolism, CYP-
mediated  drug–drug  interaction  between  valsartan  and  other  co-administered  drugs  could  be 
considered negligible. Valsartan did not inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, or 
CYP3A4  to  any  significant  extent.  It  marginally  inhibited  CYP2C9  with  a Ki  value  of  135  µmol/L. 
The main elimination mechanism for valsartan in humans is likely to be hepatic canalicular transport 
by MRP2 and the currently available literature indicates that no clinically significant drug interactions 
occur  via  MRP2.  However,  the  knowledge  on  substrate  specificities,  regulation  mechanisms,  and 
inhibitors and inducers of MRP2 is still limited. Overall, based on the preclinical and clinical findings 
with  valsartan,  the  potential  for  clinical  drug  interactions  on  the  level  of  drug  transporters  with 
valsartan appears to be very unlikely.  
Hydrochlorothiazide: No relevant pharmacokinetic interactions have been reported between HCT and 
other drugs and, particularly, no drug interactions of HCT via CYP450 enzymes have been observed. 
In cardiovascular combination therapy, no significant pharmacokinetic interactions have been reported 
between angiotensin receptor blockers, calcium antagonists and thiazide diuretics. Cholestyramine and 
colestipol decreased absorption of HCT, which is consistent with the acidic nature of HCT.  
Valsartan/amlodipine/hydrochlorothiazide: In the toxicokinetic studies following 2- and 13-week daily 
treatment with the combination drug AML/VAL/HCT (see section Toxicology), there was essentially 
no  pharmacokinetic  interaction  between  the  individual  components  of  VAL,  HCT  and  AML.  The 
clinical study results in humans indicated that no clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interaction exists 
when the drugs are administered as triple combination vs the corresponding dual combinations. The 
results  are  consistent  with  the  lack  of  drug  interaction  when  administered  as  dual  combination 
(valsartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide;  valsartan  and  amlodipine)  vs  the  corresponding  mono-
components. 
In  summary,  the  pharmacokinetic  interactions  were  sufficiently  described  for  the  individual 
compounds.  Furthermore,  no  clinically  relevant  pharmacokinetic  interactions  were  identified  during 
the clinical trials. 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
No single dose toxicity studies have been conducted with AML/VAL/HCT. The lack of single dose 
toxicity studies is acceptable and in accordance to the current guidelines. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Based on the doses of VAL, HCT and AML in the clinical trials conducted with this combination, a 
ratio of 32:5:2 (VAL: HCT: AML) was used in the preclinical toxicology studies. The highest ratio in 
the clinical studies is 64:5:2 (VAL:HCT:AML). Justification of this approach was provided and was 
based  on  the  assumption  that  this  ratio  had  the  greatest  potential  to  demonstrate  any  interactions 
resulting in pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic effects to the proposed clinical use. However, it is 
14/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reasonable to assume that the use of a higher ratio of VAL in the pivotal toxicity study would only 
lead to a higher incidence of valsartan-related effects possibly masking the effects of the other active 
ingredients in the triple combination. Thus, further discussion is not needed. 
Oral repeat-dose toxicity studies of the combination were conducted in rats (IGS Wistar Hannover). 
All animals were dosed orally by a gavage. Samples were also obtained for the toxicokinetic analysis. 
Two shorter dose range-finding studies (0670713, 0670714) and a pivotal 13-week study (0670715) 
were  conducted  and  this  in  line  with  the  CHMP  guideline  CHMP/SWP/258498/2005.  The 
characteristics and the major findings are summarised in the table below.  
Study 
ID 
Species/gender 
Number/Group 
Dose/Route 
(VAL/HCT/AML) 
Duration 
NOEL/ 
NOAEL 
(mg/kg/day) 
Major findings 
0670713 
Non-
GLP 
Wistar rats/ 2-
3/gender 
Comb: 
Dose escalation: 
64:10:4 mg/kg  
(day 1), 
 128:20:8 mg/kg  
(day 5) 
 and 
 384:60:24 mg/kg 
(days 7 and 8) 
PO 
or 
384:60:24 mg/kg/day 
for four days 
PO 
Dose 
escalation 
Or  
Four days 
repeated 
dosing 
Dose escalation:  
No treatment-related findings 
384:60:24 mg/kg/day:  
2/3♀ deaths (piloerection and stains was observed in 
one animal prior to death) 
Clinical: Body weight loss (♀),↓ body weight gain (♂) 
Microscopic pathology: slight tubular basophilia in the 
kidney (1/3♂), lymphoid depletion in the spleen (♀) 
NA 
≥ 64:10:4 mg/kg/day:  
Clinical: ↓ mean body weight gain (♂),↓ average food 
consumption 
Haematology: ↓ absolute reticulocytes count 
≥ 128:20:8 mg/kg/day: 
Clinical: Body weight loss (♀) 
Haematology: A trend towards ↓ red cell mass (RBC 
count, [haemoglobin], haematocrit) 
Clinical chemistry: ↑ [serum urea] 
Organ weights: ↓ spleen (♂, correlated with ↓ 
haematopoiesis ), ↓ thymus (♀) 
Microscopic: ↓ haematopoiesis in the spleen 
256:40:16 mg/kg/day:  
Mortality/unscheduled sacrifice of all animals 
Clinical: Rhinorrhoea, dehydration, hunched posture, 
reduced faeces, reddened skin, salivation 
Haematology: A trend towards ↓ lymphocyte counts 
and a slight ↑ neutrophil counts 
Clinical chemistry: ↑ [creatinine], ↑ [K+], ↑ 
[phosphorus], ↓ [alkaline phosphatase activity] (♀) 
Macroscopic: red foci in the glandular stomach (3/10, 
correlated with erosions in 2/3 animals) 
Microscopic: lymphoid depletion 
≥ 8:1.25:0.5 mg/kg/day comb:  
Clinical: dose-dependent ↓mean absolute body weight 
gain (depending on dose up to 46% and 55% for ♂ and 
♀, respectively), ↓mean body weights (up to 10%), 
dose-dependent ↓mean food consumption (up to 16%) 
Organ weight: ↓ heart weight 
≥ 32:5:2 mg/kg/day comb: 1♂ death (urinary tract 
obstruction, considered unrelated to treatment) 
Haematology: minimal ↓ red cell mass 
Clinical chemistry: dose-dependent ↑ [serum urea] 
Microscopic: Hyperplasia of the JGA in the kidney, 
focal erosions of the glandular stomach (♂) 
64 mg/kg/day valsartan:  
Clinical: ↓ mean absolute body weight gain (♀, <27%) 
Haematology: minimal ↓ red cell mass (♀) 
Organ weight: ↓ heart weight 
Microscopic: Hyperplasia of the JGA in the kidney, 
focal erosions of the glandular stomach (♂) 
10 mg/kg/day HCT:  
Clinical: ↓ mean absolute body weight gain (♀, <18%) 
4 mg/kg/day amlopidine: No treatment-related 
findings 
0670714 
Non-
GLP 
Wistar rats/ 
5/gender/group 
TK: 
1/time point/ 
gender/group  
Comb: 
64:10:4,  
128:20:8  
mg/kg/day 
or 
 256:40:16 mg/kg/day
PO 
2-week dose 
range-
finding 
64:10:4 
Comb: 
8:1.25:0.5, 
32:5:2 
or 
64:10:4 
mg/kg/day 
PO 
or 
Valsartan 
64 mg/kg/day  
PO 
HCT 
10 mg/kg/day  
PO 
Amlodipine 
4 mg/kg/day  
PO 
Wistar rats/ 
10/gender/group 
0670715 
GLP 
Recovery (control 
and high comb): 
6/gender/group 
TK: 
10/gender/group 
JGA – Juxtaglomerular apparatus 
13-week 
with a  
4-week 
recovery 
period 
8:1.25:0.5 
15/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The oral administration of AML/VAL/HCT for at least 2 weeks in rats (0670714) was not tolerated at 
256:40:16  mg/kg/day.  At  64:10:4  mg/kg/day,  all  animals  were  modestly  underweight  compared  to 
concurrent  controls  (not  statistically  significant),  exhibited  reductions  in  body  weight  gains 
(statistically  significant)  and  food  consumption,  and  there  was  a  mild  to  moderate  reduction  in 
absolute reticulocyte counts. The NOAEL was determined to be 64:10:4 mg/kg/day. 
The  oral  administration  of  the  triple  combination  of  VAL/HCT/AML  to  rats  at  doses  up  to  64:10:4 
mg/kg/day for at least 13 weeks in the pivotal rat repeated dose toxicity study (0670715) was tolerated 
with  expected  effects  that  were  mainly  associated  with  the  VAL  component  of  the  formulation. 
Amongst the principal findings were: 
-  Moderate reductions in mean body weight and mean food consumption. The former was observed 
following administration of HCT alone, VAL alone and VAL/HCT/AML.  
-  Decrease in erythrocyte parameters. These are exaggerated pharmacological effects of VAL due to 
its antagonistic effect on angiotensin II. 
-  Increased serum urea and creatinine were considered related to an exaggerated effect of VAL due 
to decreased renal perfusion and subsequent ischemia following prolonged hypotensive effect. 
-  Focal  erosions  of  the  glandular  stomach,  which  probably  resulted  from  local  irritation  and 
exaggerated blood pressure reduction in ischemia and hypofusion of the stomach due to treatment. 
-  Decreased heart weight was seen as a response to the hypotensive action of VAL/HCT/AML, but 
was probably due to VAL.  
-  Juxtaglomerular  apparatus  hyperplasia in  the  kidney  was  seen  as  a  pharmacological  response  to 
the VAL due to an increase in renin production. 
Exposures  to  VAL,  HCT  and  AML  respectively  to  NOAEL  in  rat  toxicity  studies  were  up  to  1.95, 
10.45 and 2.16 times higher than those at the highest dose in human (320/25/10 mg, VAL/HCT/AML, 
respectively),  suggesting  a  moderate  safety  margin  for  human.  While  NOAEL  was  not  definitely 
established, it was considered to be 8:1.25:0.5 mg/kg/day.  
The exposure to AML and HCT was proportional to the dose. The exposure data of VAL are difficult 
to interpret in relation to dose proportionality. AML seemed to accumulate upon repeated dosing, but 
this was not the case for VAL and HCT. Gender-differences were apparent for AML as the exposure 
in  females  had  a  tendency  to  be  higher  than  that  in  males.  Co-administration  had  no  impact  on  the 
toxicokinetics  of  HCT  and  AML,  while  an  effect  on  the  toxicokinetics  of  VAL  cannot  be  excluded 
completely  as  the  exposure  to  VAL  seemed  to  be  higher  in  the  combination  as  compared  to  VAL 
administrated alone. It is not possible to assess whether the higher exposure of VAL observed in the 
pivotal toxicity study led to an increased toxicity at lower dosages as VAL alone was only tested at the 
highest dose. Clinical data have sufficiently shown lack of differences on pharmacokinetics when the 
compounds are administrated in dual and triple combination as compared to when administrated alone. 
All effects could be ascribed to the pharmacological effects of the product and seemed reversible or 
partially reversible following termination of the treatment. Thus, the CHMP concluded that there were 
no major unexpected interactions with the combination within an adequate range of concentrations and 
exposures in rat given VAL/HCT/AML as a combination product or separately for up to 13 weeks. No 
additional  non-clinical  pharmacokinetic  studies  are  requested.  Considerations  given  in  CHMP 
guideline for the development of fixed combinations (CHMP/EMEA/CHMP/SWP/258498/2005) have 
been taken into account. 
•  Genotoxicity 
No genotoxicity studies were conducted with AML/VAL/HCT. There is no evidence of genotoxicity 
for  VAL  and  AML  from  previous  use.  Both  VAL  and  AML  are  considered  to  be  non-genotoxic 
compounds. Hydrochlorothiazide, on the other hand, showed genotoxic potential in two in vitro tests 
for mutagenicity and cytogeneticity; the mouse lymphoma assay and sister chromatid exchange assay 
(in vitro cytogenetics). Although the available reviews in literature suggest that the in vivo mutagenic 
potential of HCT is considered low, the CHMP requested further information about the lack of in vivo 
genotoxicity of hydrochlorothiazide either based on published literature or experimental non clinical 
data.  However,  the  response  did  not  provide  additional  published  scientific  literature  or the  original 
study  reports  of  the  in  vivo  genotoxicity  testing,  which  is  required  for  sufficient  full  assessment  in 
accordance  with  the  guideline  on  mixed  marketing.  Exceptionally,  the  lack  of  this  information  is 
16/ 45 
 
 
 
 
deemed acceptable because of a) the reviewed in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity studies indicated that 
HCT is unlikely to be genotoxic, b) the lack of carcinogenicity findings in non clinical studies, and c) 
the extensive clinical use of HCT in patient for over fifty years.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
No  carcinogenicity  studies  were  conducted  with  the  triple  combination  of  AML/VAL/HCT.  The 
carcinogenicity of the three compounds was considered separately. This is acceptable in accordance to 
the current guideline on fixed combinations as none of the compound is considered carcinogenic.  
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
No  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  with  the  triple  combination  of 
AML/VAL/HCT.  AML  is  contraindicated  in  first  trimester  and  VAL  in  first,  second  and  third 
trimester. The non clinical studies with AML/VAL/HCT are unlikely to reveal significant information.   
Toxicity  to  reproduction  has  earlier  been  assessed  for  AML  and  VAL,  separately.  There  was  no 
evidence  of  VAL  teratogenicity,  but  there  was  evidence  of  foetotoxicity  of  VAL  in  the  Segment  II 
rabbit study and a reduction in pup development and survival in the Segment III rat study. There was 
no evidence of AML teratogenicity; here were no effects on the reproductive performance of rats in 
segment I study. However, AML decreased the litter size, increased intrauterine deaths and prolonged 
the  gestation  period  and  duration  of  labour.  In  addition,  the  embryo-foetal  development  of  the  dual 
combination  of  VAL  and  AML  has  also  been  investigated.  While  the  use  of  AML/VAL  during 
pregnancy  is  not  recommended  during  the  first  trimester  and  is  contraindicated  for  the  two  latter 
trimesters,  the  use  of  HCT  may  compromise  foeto-placental  perfusion  and  may  cause  foetal  and 
neonatal  effects  like  icterus,  disturbance  of  electrolyte  balance  and  thrombocytopenia  and  may  be 
associated  with  other  adverse  reactions,  as  stated  in  the  SPC.  No  juvenile  animal  studies  were 
conducted  with  the  triple  combination  of  AML/VAL/HCT,  which  is  not  recommended  for  use  in 
patients below age 18 years due to a lack of data on safety and efficacy. The lack of juvenile animal 
studies is acceptable. 
•  Local tolerance  
No local tolerance studies were conducted with the triple combination of AML/VAL/HCT. The lack 
of local tolerance studies is acceptable due to the clinical experience and the route of administration, 
per os. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Studies on impurities 
The lack of toxicology studies on impurities was explained by the fact that the evaluated impurities 
were  within  specified  limits.  The  CHMP  requested  a  further  elaboration  on  the  impurity  levels  of 
AML/VAL/HCT in accordance with the current ICH guidelines and the CHMP guideline on limits of 
genotoxic  impurities  (CPMP/SWP/5199/02,  EMEA/CHMP/QWP/251344/2006).  In  response,  the 
details of the impurity levels were adequately provided and lack of safety testing justified.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) report was submitted with a phase 2 environmental risk 
assessment  performed  for all three  active  pharmaceutical  ingredients. VAL  shows  moderate  chronic 
toxicity to aquatic species; the reproduction rate in Daphnia magna being specially affected. It has no 
significant  potential  to  inhibit  the  microbial  activity  of  activated  sludge,  and  is  not  readily 
biodegradable.  The  substance  is  not  expected  to  bio-accumulate.  Adsorption  to  sludge  was  low  and 
retention in sewage sludge during the passage of sewage treatment plants is unlikely. The study on the 
transformation  of  VAL  in  aerobic  water-sediment  systems  showed  some  partitioning  of  VAL  into 
sediment, however, after 7 days only between 11.7 and 12.4 % of the substance were found as parent 
compound in sediment. Degradation occurs via the formation of a major metabolite 2’-(1H-tetrazol-5-
yl)-biphenyl-4-carboxylic acid and other minor metabolites. AML shows significant chronic toxicity 
to  aquatic  species  and  has  potential  to  inhibit  the  microbial  activity  of  activated  sludge  at  high 
concentrations.  It  is  not  readily  biodegradable  and  based  on  its  physical-chemical  properties  and  its 
high susceptibility to oxidative metabolism in higher organisms it is not expected to bio-accumulate. 
17/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AML  was  found  to  be  photolabile.  The  compound  shows  moderate  adsorption  to  sludge  and 
partitioning into sediments with only 5.3 to 6.0 % of applied radioactivity as parent substance found in 
sediments  after  21  days.  HCT  shows  low  chronic  toxicity  to  aquatic  organisms,  has  no  significant 
potential  to  inhibit  the  microbial  activity  of  activated  sludge  and  is  not  readily  biodegradable.  It  is 
neither expected to adsorb to a significant extend to soil, sludge or sediments nor anticipated to bio-
accumulate, as judged from its low log P.  
Overall, the Phase II – Tier A assessment for AML, VAL and HCT does not indicate any significant 
concerns  for  surface  water,  sewage  treatment  plants,  sediment  compartments  and  groundwater. 
Nevertheless, the CHMP expressed a serious concern that the methods used for determination of the 
log Kow for the three compounds and the study reports for the Ready Biodegradability Test for HCT 
and AML were not submitted. Only official safety data sheets for amlodipine besylate and HCT were 
provided. In addition, the Algae Growth Inhibition Test (OECD 201) for VAL was not valid as both, 
the water and the solvent control exceeded the coefficient of variation of average specific growth rates. 
Due  to  the  fact  that  full  results  of  the  evaluation  were  not  presented  as  study  reports,  the  CHMP 
requested  the  detailed  information  on  all  performed  test  with  all  three  substances  in  order  to  fully 
evaluate  the  ERA  for  AML/VAL/HCT.  In  response,  a  commitment  to  conduct  below  stated 
environmental assessment evaluation studies has been given. Considering the extensive clinical use of 
AML, VAL and HCT individually and also in dual combinations, these follow-up measures is deemed 
acceptable.  For  AML  following  studies  will  be  conducted  and  results  to  be  provided  together  with 
updated ERA:  
-  Algae growth inhibition (OECD201)  
-  An additional study to confirm the octanol/water partition coefficient as study protocol for the log 
Kow value is not available 
-  Fish early life-stage study (OECD210) 
For VAL following studies will be conducted and results to be provided together with updated: 
-  Algae growth inhibition (OECD201) 
-  Activated sludge respiration inhibition (OECD209) 
-  An additional study to confirm the octanol/water partition coefficient as a study protocol for the 
logKow value is not available 
-  Toxicity to sediment-dwelling organisms. 
For the active ingredient HCT all the remaining studies required for a full Phase II-Tier A assessment 
will be delivered together with an updated ERA, i.e. octanol-water partition coefficient, algae growth 
inhibition, ready biodegradability, adsorption-desorption properties and transformation in water-
sediment systems. 
2.4 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
This  is  an  application  for  a  fixed  combination  product  containing  amlodipine,  valsartan  and 
hydrochlorothiazide  in  the  frame  of  the  centralised  procedure  submitted  in  accordance  with  Article 
3(2)(a)  of  the  Regulation  (EC)  no.  726/2004  and  with  Article  10b  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as 
amended (fixed combination products). A full dossier has been submitted.  
The objective of the clinical program was to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of the combination of 
valsartan,  hydrochlorothiazide  and  amlodipine  in  the  treatment  of  essential  hypertension.  The  lower 
strengths (VAL/HCT/AML 160/12.5/5 mg, 160/12.5/10 mg, 160/25/5 mg, 160/25/10 mg), which are 
widely used in clinical practice as mono- or dual therapies, are supported by biopharmaceutical data. 
The highest dose, containing 320/25/10 mg VAL/HCT/AML, has been studied in a short term phase 
III parallel group trial comparing three dual combinations. Thus, the development programme consists 
of: 
1.  Phase III clinical study to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of the triple combination;  
2.  Biopharmaceutical  development  program  to  demonstrate  bioequivalence  between  the  fixed 
triple  combination  of  final  market  image  (FMI)  tablet  and  the  free  combination  of 
corresponding doses of the clinical service formulations (CSFs) in the phase III clinical study;  
18/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Pharmacokinetic interaction study;  
4.  Bioequivalence study to address the sourcing of amlodipine;  
5.  Food effect bioavailability study with the FMI tablet.  
The  triple  fixed  combination  tablet  is  intended  to  replace  the  free  combination  of  three  individual 
component  drugs;  or  the  combination  of  dual  VAL/HCT  +  AML;  or  the  combination  of  dual 
AML/VAL + HCT. 
The claimed indication is: 
Treatment of essential hypertension. 
Dafiro  HCT  is  indicated  as  replacement  therapy  in  patients  whose  blood  pressure  is  adequately 
controlled on amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide (HCT) used as individual or combination 
therapies. 
The approved indication is: 
Treatment of essential hypertension as substitution therapy in adult patients whose blood pressure is 
adequately controlled on the combination of amlodipine, valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide (HCT), 
taken either as three single-component formulations or as a dual-component and a single-component 
formulation. 
The regulatory requirements relevant for fixed dose antihypertensive drug combinations are described 
in the following regulatory guidance documents: 
1.  Note for Guidance on Clinical Investigation of Medicinal Products in the Treatment of 
Hypertension, CPMP/EWP/238/95 Rev. 3.  
2.  Guideline on clinical development of fixed combination medicinal products, 
CPMP/EWP/240/95 Rev.1. 
3.  Questions and Answers Document on the Clinical Development of Fixed Combinations of 
Drugs Belonging to Different Therapeutic Classes in the Field of Cardiovascular Treatment 
and Prevention, CHMP/EWP/191583/05. 
4.  Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1). 
5.  Questions & Answers on the Bioavailability and Bioequivalence Guideline 
(CHMP/EWP/40326/06). 
The design and conduct of the clinical studies followed the relevant regulatory authority guidelines in 
effect at the time of study initiation. Scientific Advice regarding the clinical development program for 
amlodipine/valsartan/hydrochlorothiazide  medicinal  product  and  study  design  was  sought  from  the 
CHMP in July and August 2007 (SAWP/308650/2007 and EMEA/H/SA/908/1/2007/II) and national 
regulatory  authorities.  The  CHMP  advice  related  to  the  requirements  for  development  of  the 
combination  product  with  replacement  indication.  In  principle,  the  CHMP  agreed  that  formal 
bioequivalence  studies  would  suffice,  but  pointed  out  that  additional  efficacy/safety  data  would  be 
needed  for  320  mg  dose  of  valsartan  prior  to  acceptance  of  the  triple  combination  with  this  higher 
dose.    Several  critical  issues  were  raised  regarding  the  design  of  the  pivotal  study  VEA2302.  The 
CHMP Scientific advice has been followed in part, but as the clinical studies were on-going at the time 
of advice, the recommendations on the design of the pivotal study were not implemented. The national 
regulatory  authorities’  advice  was  sought  mainly  for  the  ‘second  line’  indication  (France,  the 
Netherlands, Sweden, and the United Kingdom, 2004). 
Dafiro HCT was granted a product specific waiver and there is no paediatric development programme 
or paediatric studies. 
GCP 
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. The applicant 
has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were carried 
out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. The assessment of the clinical 
data did not raise concerns about their compliance with GCP. No inspection was requested.  
Pharmacokinetics 
19/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Since  the  tolerability  of  the  three  drug  components  of  the  fixed  dose  combination  product  are  well 
known as monotherapies or dual combination, no initial tolerability studies were conducted in healthy 
subjects.  The  bioequivalence  development  programme  was  designed  to  bridge  the  information 
obtained in definitive clinical efficacy and safety study (VEA489A2302) with the free combination of 
the  CSFs  to  the  fixed  combination  tablet  products. Two  bioavailability  studies were  conducted  with 
the  dose  strengths  of  10/160/25mg  (VEA489A2306)  and  5/160/12.5mg  (VEA489A2305)  of 
AML/VAL/HCT.  Furthermore,  based  on  the  compositional  proportionality  or  similarity  of 
active/inactive ingredients, and similarity in in vitro dissolution properties, bio-waivers were requested 
for the other three dose strengths, 10/160/12.5mg, 5/160/25mg and 10/320/25mg of AML/VAL/HCT. 
Since AML CSF used in the phase III study was an over-encapsulated product that utilised an AML 
tablet  (Norvasc®)  obtained  from  the  US  market,  two  additional  bioequivalence  studies  were 
conducted.  One  study  addressed  the  bioequivalence  between  the  AML  CSF  and  US  sourced  AML 
(VEA489A2105) and the other study addressed the bioequivalence between the FMI tablet and the EU 
the  biopharmaceutics  and  pharmacokinetics 
sourced  AML  (VEA489A2106).  In  summary, 
development program consisted of the following studies: 
Study A2104 -  A multi-center, multiple dose, open-label, four-cohort, parallel study to assess the 
pharmacokinetic drug interaction following co-administration of valsartan, 
hydrochlorothiazide and amlodipine in patients with hypertension. 
Study A2310 -  A randomized, open-label, single-dose, two-period crossover study in healthy subject 
to evaluate the effect of food on the bioavailability of 
valsartan/hydrochlorothiazide/amlodipine 320 mg/25 mg/10 mg fixed combination 
final market image tablet. 
Study A2305 -  An open-label, randomized, single dose, four period, crossover study to determine the 
relative bioavailability of three prototype 160 mg/12.5 mg/5 mg fixed combination 
valsartan/hydrochlorothiazide/amlodipine tablets to a free combination of phase III-
clinical service forms of 160 mg valsartan, 12.5 mg hydrochlorothiazide, and 5 mg 
amlodipine. 
Study A2306 -  An open-label, randomized, single dose, three period, crossover study to determine the 
relative bioavailability of two prototype 160 mg/25 mg/10 mg fixed combination 
valsartan/hydrochlorothiazide/amlodipine tablets to a free combination of phase III-
clinical service forms of 160 mg valsartan, 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide, and 10 mg 
amlodipine. 
Study A2106 - An open label, randomized, single-dose, two-way crossover study to determine the 
bioequivalence of the amlodipine component between the fixed combination of 160 
mg/25 mg/10 mg valsartan/hydrochlorothiazide/amlodipine final market image tablet 
and the 10 mg amlodipine tablet (Istin®) administered in combination with 160 mg 
valsartan and 25 mg hydrochlorothiazide tablets. 
Study A2105 - An open label, randomized, single-dose, two-way crossover study to determine the 
bioavailability of 5 mg amlodipine clinical service form capsule relative to that of the 
5 mg amlodipine administered as one 5 mg Norvasc® tablet. 
During  the  procedure,  as  response  to  the  CHMP  concern,  the  following  study  report  has  been 
submitted:  
CSPH100A2105 - An open-label, single-dose, three-period, crossover study to assess the 
bioequivalence of hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) following administration of 25 mg dose between 
Clinical Service Form (CSF) capsule and European marketed tablet or Canadian-marketed tablet 
Formulations in healthy subjects 
•  Absorption, distribution, elimination  
The pharmacokinetics of VAL, HCT and AML have been well characterised when administered alone 
or  when  administered  as  the  double  combinations  (VAL/HCT  or  VAL/AML).  Following  oral 
20/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administration  of  the  fixed  combination  of  VAL/HCT/AML  under  fasted  conditions,  peak  plasma 
concentrations  of  VAL,  HCT  and  AML  are  reached  in  3-4,  1-3  and  6-9  hours,  respectively.  The 
elimination half lives of VAL, HCT and AML are about 13-23, 10-12, 41-47 hours, respectively. The 
rate  and  extent  of  absorption  of  the  fixed  combination  of  VAL/HCT/AML  are  equivalent  to  the 
bioavailability of VAL, HCT and AML when administered as individual tablets. 
Bioequivalence and Bioavailability 
No  specific  studies  have  been  conducted  to  characterise  the  absolute  and  relative  bioavailability  of 
three  drug  components  after  the  administration  of  the  triple  combination  tablet  because  the  triple 
combination  product  is  intended  for  the  replacement  of  individual  drug  products.  However,  in  the 
pivotal clinical trials the components were administered as clinical service formulations (CSFs) and in 
order  to  bridge  the  data  obtained  in  these  pivotal  studies  with  the  fixed  combination  product,  a 
bioequivalence  development  programme  was  conducted.  Five  clinical  studies  were  conducted  to 
examine the bioavailability and bioequivalence of VAL, AML and HCT and the effect of food on their 
bioavailability. Details of these biopharmaceutical studies are summarized below: 
Study VEA489A2305 and study VEA489A2306 
Study  VEA489A2305  was  an  open-label,  single  dose,  four-period,  crossover  bioavailability  study 
conducted  in  order  to  determine  the  relative  bioavailability  of  three  different  prototypes  fixed 
combination  tablet  containing  5  mg  AML,  160  mg  VAL  and  12.5  mg  HCT  compared  to  the 
corresponding doses of free combination of clinical service formulations (CSFs), which were used in 
the  pivotal  efficacy  and  safety  trial.  Study  VEA489A2306  was  an  open-label,  single  dose,  three-
period, crossover bioavailability study conducted in order to determine the relative bioavailability of 
two different prototype fixed combination tablets containing 10 mg AML, 160 mg VAL and 25 mg 
HCT compared to the corresponding doses of free combination of CSFs used in the pivotal efficacy 
and safety trial. The comparative bioavailability assessments in both studies were performed based on 
the 90% CI for the estimated ratio of geometric means of AUC and Cmax of each drug. The results of 
the statistical evaluation are provided in the table below. 
21/ 45 
 
 
 
 
The pharmacokinetic and statistical results indicated that in study VEA489A2305 the 90% CI for the 
ratios of geometric means for AUC0-t, AUC0-∞ and Cmax for VAL, HCT and AML for the prototype I 
formulation were within the required bioequivalence range of 0.8-1.25, which indicates that the rate 
and extent of absorption for VAL, HCT and AML from prototype I tablets were similar to those of the 
free  combination  treatment.  Prototype  I  of  5  mg/160  mg/12.5  mg  fixed  combination  tablets  met  the 
bioequivalence criteria for comparison to the free combination of CSFs of 5 mg AML, 160 mg VAL 
and 12.5 mg HCT. However, based on the pharmacokinetic and statistical results in the second study, 
VEA489A2306,  both,  the  prototype  I  and  prototype  II  formulations,  were  within  the  required 
bioequivalence range of 0.8-1.25, which indicates that the rate and extent of absorption for VAL, HCT 
and  AML  from  these  two  tablets  were  similar  to  those  of  the  free  combination  treatment.  This 
contrasts  with  the study VEA489A2305,  where  only the prototype  I  of  5  mg/160  mg/12.5  mg  fixed 
combination  tablets  met  the  required  bioequivalence  criteria  with  the  free  combination  of  CSFs  of 
5 mg  AML,  160  mg  VAL  and  12.5  mg  HCT.  It  was  convincingly  argued  that  the  differences  in 
bioequivalence between the two strengths of fixed combinations as compared to the prototypes I and II 
can  be  ascribed  to  differences  in  the  total  coefficients  of  variations  for  Cmax  and  AUC  resulting  in 
higher intra-subject  variability  for  5  mg  tablet.  Based  on  the  results  from  VEA489A2306  study,  the 
10 mg/160 mg/25 mg prototype I tablet was selected and used in in vitro studies to support bio-waiver 
requests for 5/160/25 mg and 10 mg/160 mg/12.5 mg AML/VAL/HCT tablets. 
Study VEA489A2105 and study VEA489A2106 
Two  additional  bioequivalence  studies  were  conducted,  since  the  AML  CSF  used  in  the  phase  III 
study was an over-encapsulated product that utilised an AML tablet (Norvasc) obtained from the US 
market.  One  study  addressed  the  bioequivalence  between  the  AML  CSF  and  US  sourced  AML 
product (Study VEAA2105) and the other study addressed the bioequivalence between the FMI tablet 
and the EU sourced AML product (Study VEAA2106). 
22/ 45 
 
 
 
 
Study  VEA489A2105  was  an  open-label,  randomized,  single-dose,  two-way  crossover  study  to 
determine the bioavailability of 5 mg AML CSF capsule relative to that of the 5 mg AML Norvasc 
tablet. The rate and extent of absorption of AML were equivalent between 5 mg AML CSF capsule 
and the 5 mg AML US marketed tablet, as the 90% confidence intervals for AML AUC and Cmax were 
both  within  the  bioequivalence  limit  (0.80-1.25).  Thus,  bioequivalence  has  been  demonstrated 
between  the  two  formulations  of  AML.  Study  VEA489A2106  was  conducted  to  examine 
bioequivalence  between  the  10/160/25  mg  AML/VAL/HCT  FMI  tablet  and  EU-registered  10  mg 
AML reference product Istin when given in free combination with 160 mg VAL and 25 mg HCT CSF. 
The AML component of AML/VAL/HCT FMI fixed combination tablet was fund to be bioequivalent 
with  the  10  mg  AML  tablet  Istin.  Nevertheless,  during  the  evaluation  process  the  CHMP  raised  a 
major objection, since results of studies to prove bioequivalence with a product registered in Europe 
were provided only for AML and not for HCT and VAL. The pivotal studies proving efficacy of the 
combination product were conducted with the individual in-house formulations and according to the 
Note 
bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98), the bioequivalence should be proven to show bioequivalence with EU 
source reference products for VAL and HCT. In response, it was stated that the core composition and 
method of manufacture of VAL CSF and VAL in Diovan are identical. Thus, the only difference in the 
two products relates to the pigment in the film coating as given in the table above. As regards HCT, a 
bioequivalence study confirming bioequivalence in terms of both AUC and Cmax between HCT CSF 
and  HCT  from  the  EU  marketed  product  was  conducted  and  submitted  during  the  procedure.  The 
major objections were thus resolved. 
for  Guidance 
bioavailability 
investigation 
and 
the 
on 
of 
Bio-waiver for 5 mg/160 mg/25 mg and 10 mg/160 mg/12.5 mg AML/VAL/HCT  
The  manufacturing  process  and  the  qualitative  composition  of  5/160/25  mg  and  10/160/12.5  mg 
AML/VAL/HCT  formulations  is  identical  to  that  of  the  Prototype  I  of  10  mg/160  mg/25  mg  fixed 
combination  tablet,  for  which  the  bioequivalence  was  established  in  the  earlier  studies.  The 
quantitative compositions are also similar. The total difference of microcrystalline cellulose between 
the 5 mg and 10 mg formulations for 5 mg/160 mg/25 mg AML/VAL/HCT and between the 12.5 mg 
and  25  mg  formulations  for  10  mg/160  mg/12.5  mg  AML/VAL/HCT  would  have  no  impact  on  the 
performance of the product. Dissolution of FMI tablets was tested under various pH values. The mean 
cumulative % released vs time profiles of the 5 mg/160 mg/25 mg and 10 mg/160 mg/25 mg tablets 
and between the 10 mg/160 mg/12.5 mg and 10 mg/160 mg/25 mg tablets were similar for VAL, HCT 
and  AML  at  three  pH  values.  Considering  the  composition  similarity  and  the  same  manufacturing 
process;  the  pharmacokinetic  characteristics  of  VAL,  HCT  and  AML;  and  the  acceptable  in  vitro 
dissolution results, the requirements for waiver for a bioequivalence study with 5 mg/160 mg/25 mg 
and with 10 mg/160 mg/12.5 mg AML/VAL/HCT are fulfilled. 
Bio-waiver for 10/320/25 mg AML/VAL/HCT  
The  request  for  bio-waiver  for  the  10  mg/320  mg/25  mg  AML/VAL/HCT  fixed  combination  FMI 
tablet is proposed based on the following points: the manufacturing process of 10 mg/320 mg/25 mg 
AML/VAL/HCT  fixed  combination  FMI  tablet  is  identical  to  that  of  the  5/160/12.5  mg  fixed 
combination  prototype  I  tablet,  for  which  the  bioequivalence  was  established;  the  composition  of 
10 mg/320 mg/25 mg AML/VAL/HCT fixed combination FMI tablet is proportional in its active and 
inactive  ingredients  to  the  5 mg/160 mg/12.5  mg  AML/VAL/HCT  fixed  combination  prototype  I 
tablet; VAL, HCT and AML exhibit linear and dose proportional pharmacokinetics. Considering the 
above mentioned arguments, the request for bio-waiver was deemed acceptable.  
Effect of food 
The effect of food on the bioavailability of AML/VAL/HCT 10 mg/320 mg/25 mg fixed combination 
FMI  tablet  was  evaluated  in  a  randomised,  open-label,  single-dose,  two-period  crossover  study 
CVEA489A2310  in  healthy  subjects.  Subjects  were  randomized  to  one  of  the  two  treatment 
sequences, with 18 subjects in each of the two sequences and received a single 320 mg/25 mg/10 mg 
oral dose of AML/VAL/HCT FMI tablet under fasted or fed conditions. Subjects who were dosed in 
the fed state consumed a standard FDA high fat breakfast. Each treatment period was separated by at 
least  14  days.  The  results  showed  that  Cmax  of  VAL  increased  by  12%  and  AUC0-t  and  AUC0-∞ 
increased by 14% in the presence of food as compared to the fasted condition. The upper limit of 90% 
23/ 45 
 
 
 
 
CI for both Cmax and AUC was between 1.25 and 1.32. The magnitude of the increase in both Cmax and 
AUC  is  less  than  the  total  variability  (~30.9  –  44.2%)  observed  in  this  study  and  hence,  it  is  not 
expected to be clinically relevant. The bioavailability of VAL, HCT and AML is similar under fed and 
fasting  conditions  following  a  single  dose  oral  administration  of  10  mg/320  mg/25  mg 
AML/VAL/HCT fixed combination tablet.  
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
No specific pharmacokinetic studies were conducted. 
•  Special populations 
There  were  no  specific  pharmacokinetic  studies  conducted  in  special  populations.  Population  PK 
analysis was conducted in the phase III safety and efficacy study in hypertension patients to assess the 
potential  of  pharmacokinetic  drug-drug  interaction  (VEA489A2302).  Results  indicated  that  the  pre-
dose  concentrations  of  VAL,  HCT,  and  AML  in  steady  state  were  comparable  between  the  triple 
combination and the corresponding dual combination treatments. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies focused on the investigation of the possible interactions between 
VAL, AML and HCT. The pharmacokinetics of VAL, HTC and AML following administration of the 
triple combination was investigated in two clinical studies in patients with hypertension.  
Study VEA489A2104 
Study  VEA489A2104  was  a  multi-centre,  multiple  dose,  open  label,  four-cohort,  parallel  study 
conducted in order to assess the pharmacokinetic drug-drug interaction following co-administration of 
VAL, HCT and AML in patients with hypertension. Doses used in the study represented the highest 
doses approved for VAL/HCT and VAL/AML double combinations and the highest proposed doses of 
the triple combination. The doses and the design used in this study were similar to those used in the 
pivotal  efficacy  and  safety  phase  III  study  VEA489A2302  (see  section  Clinical efficacy).  A  total  of 
120 male and female patients were planned to be enrolled in the study and 101 patients completed the 
study. The statistical overview of the effects of VAL on the pharmacokinetics of HCT and AML are 
given in table below. 
Addition of valsartan to HCT/AML combination increased AUC of HCT by 8% and decreased Cmax 
by 17%. Addition of VAL to HCT/AML combination increased AUC and Cmax of amlodipine by 9% 
and 10%, respectively. The 90% confidence intervals (CI) for geometric mean ratios for both HCT and 
AML exposure were not within 80 – 125% range. The observed minor changes in the exposure were 
not  considered  clinically  significant  and  do  not  warrant  any  dosage  adjustment.  The  statistical 
overview of the effects of HCT on the pharmacokinetics of VAL and AML are given in table below. 
24/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Addition of hydrochlorothiazide to VAL/AML combination increased AUC and Cmax of VAL by 25% 
and 22%, respectively; the 90% CI for geometric mean ratios for VAL exposure were not with in the 
80  –  125%  range.  However,  the  observed  increases  in  VAL  exposure  were  less  than  the 
pharmacokinetic variability in this study and hence, were not considered clinically significant. On the 
other  hand,  addition  of  HCT  to  VAL/AML  combination  increased  both  AUC  and  Cmax  of  AML  by 
10%; the 90% CI for geometric mean ratios for AML exposure was not within the 80 – 125% range. 
However, the observed minor changes in the exposure were not considered clinically significant and 
do  not  warrant  a  dosage  adjustment.  The  statistical  overview  of  the  effects  of  AML  on  the 
pharmacokinetics of VAL and HCT are given in table below. 
Addition of amlodipine to VAL/HCT combination increased VAL AUC by 10% and Cmax by 15%; the 
90%  CI  for  geometric  mean  ratio  of  VAL  exposure  was  not  within  80-125%  range.  However,  the 
observed increase in VAL exposure was minor and not considered clinically significant. On the other 
hand, addition of amlodipine to VAL/HCT combination increased HCT AUC by 3% and Cmax by 2%. 
The 90% CI for the geometric mean ratio of HCT exposure was within 80-125% range suggesting no 
effect of AML on HCT exposure. 
Overall,  based  on  the  results  of  study  VEA489A2104  and  considering  that  AML/VAL/HCT  is 
indicated as replacement therapy in patients adequately controlled on AML, VAL and HCT, there are 
no  observations that  would  give  rise to considerations  for  dosage  adjustment.  Study  VEA489A2104 
was a parallel group study with a relatively low number of subjects enrolled per treatment arm. The 
pharmacokinetics  of  VAL  was  most  affected  when  administered  as  part  of  the  triple  combination 
compared  to  the  dual  combination.  Addition  of  HCT  increased  the  AUC0-τ  of  VAL  by  1.25  when 
administered  simultaneously  with  AML.  However,  no  significant  pharmacokinetic  interaction  had 
been  reported  when  VAL  was  administered  with  HCT  (without  the  presence  of  AML).  It  could  be 
concluded that no significant pharmacokinetic interaction occurs, assuming that the safety and efficacy 
of the triple combination is sufficiently demonstrated in phase III efficacy studies. 
Study VEA489A2302 
Study VEA489A2302 was a phase III multinational, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel-
group trial in patients with moderate to severe hypertension. The primary objective of this study was 
to determine safety and efficacy of combinations of VAL, HCT and AML in patient with hypertension 
at the highest doses of AML/VAL/HCT (10/320/25mg) vs the three fixed doses of dual combinations. 
In  addition,  steady-state  pre-dose  plasma  concentration  were  collected  to  assess  the  treatment 
compliance  and  to  understand  the  potential  for  pharmacokinetic  drug-drug  interaction.  The  study 
included a single-blind run-in period of up to 4 weeks followed by an 8-week double-blind treatment 
period. Steady state was reached by week 5 and the plasma concentrations of VAL, HCT and AML 
were  determined  at  pre  dose  (Cmin)  and  at  visits  of  weeks  5  and  9.  The  statistical  comparison  made 
25/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
between  the  treatments  after  combining  the  data  from  weeks  5  and  9  were  presented  below.  The 
concentrations  of  each  analyte  were  compared  between  the  triple  combination  (test)  vs  the 
corresponding dual combination treatments (reference).  
The  point  estimate  and  the  90%  CI  for  the  ratio  of  geometric  means  for  the  triple  combination  vs 
VAL/HCT  are  well  within  the  0.8  to  1.25,  suggesting  that  VAL  concentrations  at  trough  are 
comparable between these treatments. The 90% CIs between the triple and VAL/AML treatment were 
outside the upper limit of the 0.8 to 1.25 (1.08 to 1.38), suggesting that there was 22% increase in Cmin 
with  triple  combination  compared  to  VAL/AML  treatment.  However,  this  increase  is  within  the 
intrinsic  variability  of  valsartan  concentration,  therefore  the  observed  differences  in  the  Cmin  of 
valsartan are not considered clinically significant. All other results were acceptable. 
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
There were no pharmacokinetic studies conducted with human biomaterials.  
Pharmacodynamics 
Valsartan is an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) and the blockage of AT1 receptor was confirmed 
by the increases of PRA and AngII after single or multiple doses treatment in healthy subjects and as 
well as in hypertensive subjects. The blockage of AT1 receptor up to 24 h after following a single dose 
of VAL at 40 and 80 mg  was clearly demonstrated in healthy subjects. VAL also exerted rapid and 
persistent AngII inhibition effect up to 24 h post dose following multiple doses of 80 mg for 7 days. 
AML  has  been  shown  to  be  effective  in  reducing  systolic  and  diastolic  hypertension  in  patients 
without affecting the humoral responses such as plasma renin activity. Hydrochlorothiazide exerts its 
diuretic effect by reducing the re-absorption of electrolytes from the renal tubules, thereby increasing 
the  excretion  of  sodium  and  chloride  ions,  and  consequently  of  water.  The  excretion  of  other 
electrolytes,  notably  potassium  and  magnesium,  is  also  increased  and  the  excretion  of  calcium  is 
reduced.  The  antihypertensive  effect  of  HCT  is  probably  partly  due  to  a  reduction  in  peripheral 
resistance. Clinical pharmacology studies specifically designed to evaluate the pharmacodynamics of 
the fixed combination of VAL/AML/HCT were not performed. The lack of pharmacodynamic studies 
is  acceptable  as  this  combination  product  concerns  three  already  approved  drugs  for  the  same 
indication and pharmacokinetic studies revealed no interactions between the three components.  
26/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy  
•  Dose response study 
No  dose  response  studies  were  conducted  as  the  proposed  indication  for  VAL/AML/HCT  fixed 
combination  product  is  a  substitution  indication,  and  all  proposed  strengths  of  the  three  active 
substances are already authorised. 
•  Main studies  
The clinical development programme for VAL/AML/HCT fixed combination consisted of ten clinical 
studies. Two completed studies, VEA A2302 and VEA ABR01, were designed to assess the efficacy 
and  safety  of  the  VAL/AML/HCT  combination.  VEA  2302  is  the  main,  controlled,  pivotal  trial, 
whereas  VEA  ABR01  is  a  supportive,  open-label,  uncontrolled  trial.  There  is  a  further  study,  VAA 
A2201E,  which  provides  long-term  efficacy  and  safety  data  in  a  group  of  patients  not  adequately 
controlled on VAL/AML who had open-label HCT added to their treatment regimen. The remaining 
six completed studies (VAA A2401, VAA A2402, VAA A2403, VAH BUS04, VAH BDE13E1 and 
VAH  B2406E1)  were  designed  to  evaluate  various  regimens  of  dual  combinations  and  include 
exposure  to  the  triple  combination  through  the  double-blind  or  optional,  open-label  addition  of  the 
third component during the late phase of the study. The safety data in the subgroup of patients exposed 
to  triple  therapy  from  these  studies  is  considered  supportive.  There  is  one  ongoing  study  (VAA 
AUS01)  examining  VAL/AML  with  the  optional  addition  of  HCT.  Parameters  related  to  diastolic 
function,  ventricular  size  and  function,  and  ventricular  hypertrophy  are  being  assessed.  The  below 
table summarises the main aspects of study VEA A2302 and VEA ABR01. However, the supportive 
study  VEA  ABR01  does  not  significantly  contribute  to  clinical  efficacy  and  further  discussion  will 
therefore focus mainly on study VEA A2302. 
27/ 45 
 
 
 
Protocol  
Study Dates 
Country  
Study Design & Purpose 
Endpoints 
Population 
Treatment 
VEA489A2302 
An 8-week, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the 
combination of valsartan/HCTZ/amlodipine compared to valsartan/HCTZ, valsartan/amlodipine, and HCTZ/amlodipine in 
patients with moderate to severe hypertension 
total: 2271 
randomised, 2060 
completed, 211 
discontinued 
age: 19-84 
(average 53.2 
years) 
sex: 1255 male, 
1016 female 
groups: 4  
form: capsules & tablets 
route: p.o. 
regimen: o.d. 
duration: 4 weeks single-blind run-in 
and 8 weeks double blind treatment 
doses:  
VAL/AML/HCT 320/25/10 mg 
VAL/HCT 320/25 mg 
VAL/AML 320/10 mg 
HCT/AML 25/10 mg 
Argentina, Canada, 
Denmark, Ecuador, 
Greece, Hong 
Kong, Norway, 
Peru, Portugal, 
Russia, Sweden, 
Turkey, UK, US, 
Venezuela 
start: 15 May 2006 
end: 02 Aug 2007 
Multicenter, randomized, double-
blind, parallel group study to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of 
the combination of 
VAL/AML/HCT compared to dual 
combinations (VAL/HCT, 
VAL/AML and HCT/AML) in 
patients with moderate to severe 
hypertension. 
Primary: Change from baseline in 
MSDBP and MSSBP. 
Secondary: overall BP control rate, 
diastolic and systolic BP control 
rates, diastolic and systolic BP 
response rates, change from 
baseline in standing BP, change 
from baseline in 24-hour mean 
ABPM. 
Safety: AEs/SAEs, laboratory 
values, urinalysis, PE, ECG, 
echocardiogram, pregnancy test 
VEA489ABR01 
An open-label, randomized, multicenter study to evaluate the efficacy of the combination of valsartan and 
hydrochlorothiazide and amlodipine in hypertensive patients not controlled with valsartan and hydrochlorothiazide 
Brazil 
start: 21 Aug 2006 
end: 31 May 2007 
Open label, randomized, 
multicenter study to evaluate the 
efficacy of the combination of 
VAL+HCT+AML in hypertensive 
patients not controlled with 
VAL+HCT. 
Primary: overall BP control rate.  
Secondary: diastolic and systolic 
BP control rate, diastolic BP 
responder rate, mean change from 
baseline in MSDBP, MSSBP, and 
standing BP 
Safety: AE/SAE monitoring, 
physical examination, vital signs, 
laboratory evaluations 
(haematology and blood chemistry) 
and pregnancy testing, ECG 
evaluation 
total: 340 enrolled 
dual therapy 
phase (safety 
population); 
264 enrolled non-
randomised triple 
therapy phase; 
182 randomised 
triple therapy; 
Triple therapy 
patients: 
age: 29-81 
(average 56.5 yrs) 
gender: 72 male, 
192 female  
groups: 3 (1 non-
randomized triple 
therapy; 2 
randomized triple 
therapy) 
form: tablet 
route: p.o. 
regimen: o.d. 
duration: 12 weeks (triple therapy) 
doses:  VAL/HCT 160/12.5 mg o.d. (4 
wk).  Patients who did not meet BP 
target were force titrated to VAL/ 
HCT/AML 160/12.5/5 mg o.d. (4 wk).   
Patients who did not meet BP target 
were randomized to either 
VAL/HCT/AML 160/12.5/ 10 mg o.d. 
(4 wk) or VAL/HCT/AML 160/25/5 
mg o.d. (4 wk). 
Patients who still did not meet BP 
target were force titrated to 
VAL/HCT/AML 160/25/10 mg o.d. (4 
wk) 
Only patients who did not meet BP 
target continued in the study at each 
titration-step.  Patients who met BP 
target were withdrawn as soon as the 
BP target was achieved. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
The VEA A2302 study population consisted of male and female patients ≥ 18 years and <86 years of 
age with moderate to severe hypertension who fulfilled one of the following requirements: 
28/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Diagnosis of moderate to severe hypertension (MSDBP ≥ 100 mmHg and <120 mmHg, and 
MSSBP ≥ 145 mmHg and <200 mmHg) at Visit 3 
-  Patients  also  had  to  meet  the  blood  pressure  requirements  (MSDBP  ≥  95  mmHg  and  <110 
- 
mmHg, and MSSBP <180 mmHg) at Visit 2 
or 
•  MSDBP  ≥  110  mmHg  and  <120  mmHg,  and  MSSBP  ≥  145  mmHg  and  <200  mmHg,  or 
MSDBP ≥ 100 mmHg and <110 mmHg and MSSBP ≥ 180 mmHg and <200 mmHg after one 
week of treatment with placebo (blood pressure check) or at any subsequent scheduled study 
visit or blood pressure evaluation during the single-blind run-in period (designated Visit 3) 
The following conditions were amongst the main exclusion criteria: 
- 
Inability to discontinue all prior antihypertensive medication for a period of 1 to 5 weeks. 
-  Patients with an MSDBP ≥ 120 mmHg or an MSSBP ≥ 200 mmHg at screening or any time 
during  the  single-blind  run-in  period;  patients  with  an  MSSBP  ≥  180  mmHg  and  MSDBP 
<100  mmHg  at  any  time  between  one  week  (7  ±  3  days)  and  four  weeks  of  treatment  with 
placebo had to be discontinued from the study; patients on two or more antihypertensive drugs 
with MSSBP ≥ 180 mmHg and/or MSDBP ≥ 110 mmHg at Visit 1; patients on three or more 
antihypertensive  drugs  with  MSDBP  ≥  90  mmHg  and  <110  mmHg,  and/or  MSSBP  ≥  140 
mmHg and <180 mmHg at Visit 1. 
-  Patients  with  type  1  diabetes  mellitus  and  those  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  who 
were not well controlled based on the investigator’s clinical judgement.  
-  Known or suspected contraindications, including a history of hypersensitivity to angiotensin 
receptor blockers, thiazide diuretics, dihydropyridine calcium antagonists, or similar drugs. 
-  Any history of pancreatic injury, hepatic disease, oesophageal varices, renal impairment, etc.  
-  Other criteria 
Treatments 
The  following  study  drugs  were  provided:  valsartan  160  mg  tablets,  hydrochlorothiazide  12.5  mg, 
capsules, hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg capsules, amlodipine 5 mg capsules, amlodipine 10 mg capsules, 
placebo  for  the  run-in  period  and  matching  placebo  for  each  active  study  drug.  On  each  day  of  the 
single-blind run-in and double-blind treatment periods patients took by mouth one dosage form (either 
a capsule or tablet) from each of four provided bottles. At Visit 1 and continuing throughout the study, 
patients took 2 tablets and 2 capsules at around 8am, except on days when clinic visits were scheduled. 
29/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients in the pre-randomisation phase had their antihypertensive therapy withdrawn and entered the 
single-blind placebo run-in period for duration of 4 days to 4 weeks. Patients taking antihypertensive 
medication that required gradual withdrawal underwent a washout period prior to entering the placebo 
run-in period. All patients had a check of blood pressure at Visit 1 which determined their eligibility 
for randomization into the trial according to 3 scenarios described: 
Objectives 
Primary  objectives  in  study  VEA  A2302:  To  demonstrate  that  at  least  one  of  the  following  two 
efficacy criteria was met: 
-  A once daily dosing regimen of the triple combination of VAL/HCT/AML was superior to the 
dual combinations of VAL/HCT, VAL/AML, and HCT/AML in lowering MSDBP in patients 
with moderate to severe hypertension. 
-  A once daily dosing regimen of the triple combination of VAL/HCT/AML was superior to the 
dual combinations of VAL/HCT, VAL/AML, and HCT/AML in lowering MSSBP in patients 
with moderate to severe hypertension. 
Secondary objectives (triple combination vs dual combinations) in study VEA A2302:  
-  Blood  pressure  control  rates  (MSSBP/MSDBP  <140/90  mmHg),  diastolic  blood  pressure 
control  rates  (MSDBP  <90  mmHg),  systolic  blood  pressure  control  rates  (MSSBP  <140 
mmHg),  diastolic  blood  pressure  responder  rates  (MSDBP  <90  mmHg  and/or  ≥  10  mmHg   
reduction from baseline), systolic blood pressure responder rates (MSSBP <140 mmHg and/or 
≥  15  mmHg  reduction  from  baseline),  decrease  in  24-hour  mean  ambulatory  diastolic  and 
systolic  blood  pressures,  safety  and  tolerability,  pharmacokinetic  drug  interaction  at  steady 
state: plasma drug levels of VAL, HCT and AML achieved with the triple combination vs the 
dual therapies. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  variables  in  trial  VEA  A2302  were  change  from  baseline  to  endpoint  (LOCF, 
week 5, week 7 and week  9) in MSDBP and in MSSBP. The secondary efficacy  variables included 
overall control rate (MSSBP/MSDBP < 140/90 mmHg) at endpoint and at weeks 5, 7 and 9, diastolic 
control rate (MSDBP < 90 mmHg) at endpoint and at weeks 5, 7 and 9, systolic control rate (MSSBP 
< 140 mmHg) at endpoint and at weeks 5, 7 and 9, diastolic responder rate (MSDBP < 90 mmHg or ≥ 
30/ 45 
 
 
 
10  mmHg  reduction  from  baseline)  at  endpoint  and  at  weeks  5,  7  and  9,  systolic  responder  rate 
(MSSBP < 140 mmHg or ≥ 15 mmHg reduction from baseline) at endpoint and at weeks 5, 7 and 9, 
change from baseline in MSDBP and in MSSBP at  weeks 5, 7 9, change from  baseline to endpoint 
(LOCF) in standing diastolic and systolic BP, change from baseline to week 9 in post-dosing 24-hour 
mean ambulatory diastolic and systolic blood pressure (ADBP, ASBP), change from baseline to week 
9  in  daytime/night  time  mean  ADBP  and  ASBP.  The  CHMP  acknowledged  that  reductions  from 
baseline  to  endpoint  in  trough  MSDBP  and  MSSBP  are  recognised  as  valid  surrogate  markers  for 
reduced risks of cardiovascular events. In addition, the chosen primary endpoint is in accordance with 
the CHMP guideline for second line therapy Note for guidance on clinical investigation of medicinal 
products in the treatment of hypertension (CPMP/EWP/238/95 Rev.2).  
Sample size 
It  was  planned  to  obtain  2024  completed  patients  (506  patients  per  arm).  Assuming  a  maximum 
dropout rate of 10%, a total of 2252 patients were planned to be randomized into four treatment groups 
(563 patients per arm). The planned sample size of 506 completed patients (563 randomized patients) 
per  treatment  group  would  provide  90%  power  to  obtain  statistical  significance  for  the  triple  vs  all 
three dual therapies at the two-sided significance level of 0.025 for change from baseline in MSDBP, 
assuming  the  true  treatment  difference  is  2  mmHg  between  the  triple  and  each  dual  therapy  and  a 
common standard deviation of 8 mmHg for all treatment groups and  would also provide 90% power 
to  obtain  statistical  significance  for  the  triple  versus  all  three  dual  therapies  at  the  two-sided 
significance level of 0.025 for change from baseline in MSSBP, assuming the true treatment difference 
is 3.5 mmHg between the triple and each dual therapy and a common standard deviation of 14 mmHg 
for all treatment groups. These considerations seem acceptable. In total, 2060 patients completed the 
study. 
Randomisation 
At the end of the single-blind placebo run-in period of study VEA A2302, patients were randomised in 
a double-blind fashion for a total of 8 weeks of treatment in an equal allocation (1:1:1:1) to one of four 
treatment arms: VAL/HCT/AML: 320/25/10 mg o.d., VAL/HCT: 320/25 mg o.d., VAL/AML: 320/10 
mg  o.d.,  or  HCT/AML:  25/10  mg  o.d.  A  patient  randomisation  list  was  produced  by  the  IVRS. 
Randomisation  was  stratified  by  centre.  The  first  two  weeks  post  randomization  was  a  two-stage 
forced  titration  period:  At Visit  3,  patients  received  lower  doses  of  the  study  drugs  and  were force-
titrated  over  a  two-week  period  to  the  maximum  doses  of  VAL/HCT/AML  320/25/10  mg  o.d., 
VAL/HCT 320/25 mg o.d., VAL/AML 320/10 mg o.d., and HCT/AML 25/10 o.d. Treatment at the 
maximum doses continued for 6 weeks until the end of the study (Visit 5 to Visit 8). The choice of 
comparators  is  considered appropriate. The  comparator  arms  represented  two  marketed combination 
products Diovan HCT and Exforge respectively. The third combination, HCT/AML is not available as 
a combination product. Randomisation procedure was deemed acceptable. 
Blinding (masking) 
Patients, investigator staff, persons performing the assessments and data analysts were blinded to the 
identity  of  the  treatment  from  the  time  of  randomisation  until  database  lock,  using  the  following 
methods:  randomization  data  were  kept  confidential  until  unblinding,  and  were  only  accessible  to 
authorised persons; treatment identity was concealed by the use of study drugs that appeared identical 
in packaging, labelling, and schedule of administration; appearance, weight and odour of each study 
drug and its matching placebo were identical. Unblinding occurred in emergency and at the end of the 
study. IVRS reported any emergency code breaks immediately to the clinical trial leader and monitor. 
Statistical methods 
The  six  pair-wise  treatment  comparisons  (three  for  MSDBP  and  three  for  MSSBP)  for  the  triple 
combination vs dual combinations specified for the primary efficacy variable were performed for the 
change from baseline to weeks 5, 7, and 9 using the same two-way ANCOVA model with treatment 
and  region  as  factors,  and  baseline  MSDBP  or  MSSBP  as  a  covariate  in  the  model.  The  95%  and 
97.5% confidence intervals were provided for the differences between the triple and each of the dual 
therapies.  Among  the  secondary  analyses,  the  blood pressure  control  rates  and responder  rates  were 
analyzed  using  logistic  regression  models.  The  subgroup  of  patients  taking  part  in  the  ABPM  sub-
study  had  their  ambulatory  blood  pressure  data  analysed  using  analysis  of  covariance  ANCOVA 
31/ 45 
 
 
 
 
models for repeated measures to assess treatment effects on lowering ambulatory blood pressures. The 
ITT population was the primary efficacy population. The PP population was used to assess robustness 
of the primary efficacy analysis results. In general the pre-specified statistical plan seems acceptable. 
RESULTS  
Participant flow 
A total of 4285 patients were enrolled into the single-blind period of the study VEA A2302. A total of 
2272 patients completed the single-blind period; 2013 were discontinued. The most common reason 
for  discontinuation  from  the  single-blind  period  was  that  the  subject  condition  no  longer  required 
study  drug  (did  not  meet  the  blood  pressure  criteria  for  randomisation:  1204  patients;  28.1%), 
abnormal test procedure results (295 patients; 6.9%) and withdrawal of consent (228 patients; 5.3%). 
Patient disposition by treatment – double blind period (randomized population) 
Of the total randomized population, 312 patients (13.7%) had protocol deviations that excluded them 
from the Per Protocol population. The most frequently occurring deviations (as reported in the triple 
therapy  group)  were  incorrect  time  of  blood  pressure  measurement,  study  drug  interruption  >  3 
consecutive days prior to Visit 8/End of Study, and use of NSAIDs and/or Cox-2 inhibitors ≤ 72 hours 
prior to Visits 3 or 8/End of Study. The number of randomised patients was balanced across treatments 
groups as was the completion rate (89.5%-92.6%). The most frequent reason for discontinuation was 
the presence of adverse events (AEs).  
Recruitment 
Study VEA489A2302 was conducted in Europe, Asia, North and South America. Study was initiated 
and  completed  between  May  2006  and  August  2007.  Per  protocol  exclusion  and  inclusion  criteria 
were observed when recruiting patients for participation.  
Conduct of the study 
The  study  protocol  was  amended  twice;  the  first  amendment  corrected  formal  errors  and  provided 
clearer instructions on certain study procedures. Additional medications that affect blood pressure or 
could potentiate the effects of AML were also excluded from the study. The second amendment added 
one  exclusion  criterion,  clarified  the  method  for  determining  pulse  rate,  and  clarified  the  period  for 
SAE  reporting.  No  changes  were  made  to  the  planned  analysis.  However,  these  analyses  have  been 
added after  clinical database  lock:  figure of  mean  change  from  baseline in MSDBP  and  MSSBP  by 
week  and  treatment,  figure  of  mean  ADBP  and  ASBP  at  baseline  by  hour  and  treatment,  figure  of 
mean  ADBP  and  ASBP  at  endpoint  by  hour  and  treatment,  figure  of  mean  change  from  baseline  to 
endpoint  in  ADBP  and  ASBP  by  hour  and treatment,  patient listings  of  mean  24-hour,  daytime  and 
nighttime of ADBP and ASBP by treatment. The amendments do not interfere with results credibility. 
32/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
Summary of demographics by treatment in the randomized population are presented below.  
All the demographic variables are taken from Visit 1, except weight. Weight was measured at 
Visit 3 (Week 1). If Visit 3 weight value was not available, Visit 1 (screening) value was used. 
BMI is calculated. 
Summary of baseline characteristics by treatment in the randomized population are summarised 
below. 
Baseline is defined as the value at Week 1 (Visit 3/Day 1). The duration of hypertension and 
history of diabetes are from Visit 1. 
33/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
In general the treatment groups were well balanced with regard to demographic factors. The mean age 
was 53.2 years. It is to be noted that the presentation of the elderly population is limited: ≥ 65 years of 
age ranged from 13.4%-14.1% and ≥ 75 years of age ranged from 1.3%-2.5%. This is of note as the 
elderly  population  represent  a  large  proportion  of  the  hypertensive  patients.  Baseline  characteristics 
were  comparable  across  treatment  groups.  Duration  of  hypertension  was  slightly  lower  in  the  triple 
combination group (99.8 months vs 105.3-107.9 months). Between 8.2% and 10.6% of the randomised 
population had a history of type 2 diabetes. Diabetes Mellitus type 1 was an exclusion criterion. 
Numbers analysed 
Numbers (percentage) of patients in the analysis populations of enrolled patients are presented in the 
table below. 
Of the 35 randomized patients excluded from the ITT population, 23 were excluded for not having at 
least  one  post-baseline  efficacy  measurement.  The  other  12  randomized  patients  were  excluded 
because  they  were  from  a  study  site  with  critical  GCP  findings.  Patients  who  did  not  complete  the 
study,  and/or  had  major  protocol  deviations  were  excluded  from  the  per  protocol  population  (439). 
Three randomized patients were excluded from the safety population for not having taken at least one 
dose  of  double-blind  study  drug.  The  numbers  of  excluded  subjects  are  proportional  between  the 
groups (the ITT analyzable proportions of different arms are within 97.9-98.9%) and in the range to be 
expected in this type of patients/study. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary  endpoints:  Results  of  the  within-treatment  analysis  showed  that  clinically  relevant  and 
statistically  significant  reductions  from  baseline  in  MSDBP  and  MSSBP  were  achieved  at  endpoint 
with all 4 treatments. The greatest reductions were observed with triple therapy. The within-treatment 
reductions at Weeks 5, 7 and 9 were similar to those achieved at endpoint. In all treatment groups, the 
full blood pressure lowering effect was seen at Week 5. At that point in the study, all patients had been 
on their maximum dose of double-blind study medication for two weeks. The treatment with highest 
dose  lasted  6  weeks;  maximum  treatment  effect  was  seen  by  Week  3  of  maximum  dose  treatment 
(study  week  5).  The  between-treatment  comparison  showed  that  triple  therapy  was  clinically  and 
statistically superior to all three dual therapies in reducing both diastolic and systolic BP at endpoint in 
the  ITT  population,  as  showed  in  the  table  below.  Results  of  the  between-treatment  comparisons  at 
Weeks  5,  7  and  9  were  similar  to  those  observed  at  endpoint  for  the  ITT  patients.  Similar  efficacy 
results at endpoint were also obtained for the PP population. 
34/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Within-treatment analyses for change from baseline to endpoint in mean sitting BP (mmHg) (ITT 
population) 
Means and associated standard errors, confidence intervals, and p-values were provided by a paired t-test.  
* Indicates statistical significance at 0.05 level. 
Between-treatment comparisons for change from baseline to endpoint in mean sitting BP (mmHg) (ITT 
population) 
Least  square  means  and  standard  errors,  confidence  intervals,  and  p-values  were  provided  by  the 
ANCOVA model containing treatment and region as factors and centered baseline value as covariate. The 
Hochberg adjusted p-values are based on the maximum p-value for the three comparisons in MSDBP and 
the  maximum  p-value  for  the  three  comparisons  in  MSSBP.  +  Maximum  p-values  of  the  three 
comparisons. * Indicates statistical significance at 0.05 level. 
The triple  combination VAL/HCT/AML  320/25/10 mg  induced  clinically  relevant  reduction in  both 
MSDBP  and  MSSBP  which  was  statistically  and  significantly  superior  to  VAL/HCT  320/25, 
VAL/AML  320/10  and  HCT/AML  25/10.  The  observed  efficacy  was  not  influenced  by  gender, 
whereas  the  efficacy  was  less  convincing  when  adjusting  for  age  (≥65  years)  and  race  (black  racial 
subgroup population): MSDBP and MSSBP were numerically superior compared to all dual therapies, 
however,  only  statistically  significantly  superior  (for  both  MSDBP  and  MSSBP)  compared  to  the 
VAL/HCT  dual  combination  (age  ≥65  years)  and  VAL/HCT  and  VAL/ML  (black  racial  subgroup 
population).  The  number  of  included  subjects  above  the  age  of  65  years  or  belonging  to  the  black 
subgroup  population  was,  however  low,  why  these  results  should  be  interpreted  cautiously.  The 
CHMP identified a limitations in the study design regarding the choice of the population, as it could be 
questioned  whether the  enrolled  subjects  represent  the  wide  hypertensive  population: the  number  of 
elderly patients was low (only 1.8% for subjects ≥ 75 years of age) and patients with ischemic heart 
disease  and  type  1  diabetes  as  well  as  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  not  being  well  controlled  were 
excluded from the study. In addition, patients with renal impairment as measured by creatinine ≥ 1.5 x 
ULN were excluded. The CHMP requested a clarification and in response submitted by the applicant, 
post hoc analyses were presented, which indicated that efficacy and safety was comparable between 
patients with type 2 diabetes (9.5% of study population) and patients without diabetes. Similar results 
were given for patients with mild and moderate renal dysfunction, as well as the group of elderly >65 
years. Furthermore clarifications concerned the fact highlighted by the CHMP that patients who might 
have  responded  to  the  lower  doses  of  the  triple  and  dual  combinations  were  forced  titrated  to  the 
maximum doses of the four therapies and the forced titration step of two weeks duration could have 
been  too  short  to  allow  evaluation  of  the  BP  lowering  effect  of  these  lower  doses.  However,  the 
35/ 45 
 
 
 
 
applicant  presented  arguments  for  the  necessity  of  the  short  run-in  phase,  e.g.  inclusion  of  patients 
with severe hypertension, and the issue was resolved. 
Secondary endpoints: 
Overall  BP  control rates: Overall  BP  control  was  defined  as MSSBP/MSDBP <  140/90  mmHg.  At 
each assessment during the double blind period, significantly greater proportions of patients receiving 
triple  therapy  achieved  overall  BP  control  compared  with  dual  therapies.  Significantly  greater 
proportions  of  patients  on  triple  therapy  achieved  overall  BP  control  compared  to  dual  therapies  in 
both age groups (<65, ≥65 years), both genders and in the Caucasian and Black race subgroups. 
Diastolic  control  rates:  Diastolic  control  was  defined  as  MSDBP<90  mmHg.  At  each  assessment 
during  the  double  blind  period,  significantly  greater  proportions  of  patients  receiving  triple  therapy 
achieved diastolic BP control compared to those receiving any of the dual therapies.  
Systolic control rates: Systolic control was defined as MSSBP<140 mmHg. At each assessment during 
the double blind period, significantly greater proportions of patients receiving triple therapy achieved 
systolic BP control compared to those receiving any of the dual therapies. 
Diastolic  responder  rates:  Diastolic  response  was  defined  as  MSDBP<90mmHg  or  ≥10mmHg 
reduction  from  baseline.  At  each  assessment  during  the  double  blind  period,  significantly  greater 
proportions  of  patients  receiving  triple  therapy  achieved  diastolic  response  compared  to  those 
receiving any of the dual therapies. 
Systolic  responder  rates:  Systolic  response  was  defined  as  MSSBP<140mmHg  or  ≥15mmHg 
reduction  from  baseline.  At  each  assessment  during  the  double  blind  period,  significantly  greater 
proportions of patients receiving triple therapy achieved systolic response compared to any of the dual 
therapies. 
Ambulatory  blood  pressure  measurements:  All  four  treatments  produced  clinically  relevant  and 
statistically  significant  reductions  in  mean  24-hour  ambulatory  blood  pressure  compared  to  the 
baseline. Triple therapy was statistically superior to all three dual therapies in reducing both 24-hour 
diastolic and systolic ABP at endpoint. 
Standing  blood  pressure  measurements:  Within-  and  between-treatment  reductions  in  standing 
diastolic and systolic BP were similar to those observed for the sitting measurements. 
For  all  secondary  endpoint  measures  of  blood  pressure  control  and  response,  the  triple  combination 
therapy was shown to be statistically superior to all three dual therapies as calculated by hazard ratios. 
In  addition,  reductions  in  24-hour  mean  ambulatory  systolic  and  diastolic  blood  pressure  were 
clinically and statistically significantly greater with triple therapy compared to all three dual therapies. 
It  could  be  argued  that  triple  therapy  with  the  same  active  substance  given  as  dual+mono  therapy 
administered in the morning and evening respectively, may result in a different 24-hour BP lowering 
profile. Therefore, the CHMP requested a statement in the SPC, which specifies that before switching 
to  Dafiro  HCT,  patients  should  be  controlled  on  stable  doses  of  the  monocomponents  taken  at  the 
same time. The recommended dose is one tablet per day, to be taken preferably in the morning. 
Ancillary analyses 
The  pharmacokinetic  analysis  showed  that  the  pre-dose  concentrations  of  VAL,  HCT  and  AML  at 
steady state were comparable between the triple combination and the corresponding dual combination 
treatments. The plasma  concentrations  of the  three  components  were  determined  at  a steady  state  at 
pre  dose  at  Visits  6  and  8  (Weeks  5  and  9).  The  concentrations  of  each  analyte  were  compared 
between the triple combination treatment vs the corresponding dual combination treatments. The data 
were analyzed for each Visit (6 or 8/Week 5 or 9) and after pooling the data from two visits. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
No pooled or meta-analyses were performed. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
No  studies  in  special  populations  were  submitted,  but  primary  measures  in  the  pivotal  study  VEA 
A2302 were analysed by subgroups of study population. Between-treatment comparisons for change 
from  baseline  to  endpoint  in  mean  sitting  BP  were  calculated  according  to  age,  gender  and  race 
(Caucasian and Black only). Gender had little effect on the efficacy of the triple combination. Age and 
race  seemed  both  to  have  some  influence  on  the  efficacy.  In  patients  aged  65  and  over,  numeric 
36/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
superiority was present for all comparisons in both MSDBP and MSSBP, but statistical significance 
was only achieved in comparison to VAL/HCTZ. In black patients the superiority was significant for 
comparisons with VAL-containing combinations. As especially the elderly sub-group was small, the 
results are not conclusive. The results of the post-hoc analyses by concomitant diabetes and by high 
baseline systolic BP (MSSBP ≥180 mmHg) seem to indicate that the baseline SBP does not influence 
the efficacy results, but the diabetic status may influence the response, especially in comparisons with 
AML-  containing  dual  therapies.  This,  however,  is  a  post-hoc  analysis  in  small  number  of  diabetic 
patients and the results should be approached with caution. 
Between-treatment comparisons for change from baseline to endpoint in mean sitting BP (mmHg) by 
diabetes status, Study VEA A2302 (ITT population) 
Diabetes: yes  
DBP/SBP Parameter  
Treatment (mg)  
Diastolic BP  
VAL/HCT/AML 320/25/10  
VAL/HCT 320/25  
VAL/AML 320/10  
HCT/AML 25/10  
Systolic BP  
VAL/HCT/AML 320/25/10  
VAL/HCT 320/25  
VAL/AML 320/10  
HCT/AML 25/10  
Diabetes: no  
DBP/SBP Parameter  
Treatment (mg)  
Diastolic BP  
VAL/HCT/AML 320/25/10  
VAL/HCT 320/25  
VAL/AML 320/10  
HCT/AML 25/10  
Systolic BP  
VAL/HCT/AML 320/25/10  
VAL/HCT 320/25  
VAL/AML 320/10  
HCT/AML 25/10  
LSM change  
from  
baseline  
LSM difference in  
change from  
baseline (SE)  
-23.23  
-17.47  
-22.91  
-20.95  
-38.66  
-27.88  
-34.52  
-36.63  
-5.76 (1.811)  
-0.32 (1.918)  
-2.28 (1.927)  
-10.78 (2.998)  
-4.15 (3.188)  
-2.03 (3.248)  
LSM change  
from  
baseline  
LSM difference in  
change from  
baseline (SE)  
-24.90  
-19.96  
-21.37  
-19.31  
-39.84  
-32.48  
-33.38  
-30.96  
-4.93 (0.563)  
-3.53 (0.559)  
-5.59 (0.560)  
-7.35 (0.879)  
-6.45 (0.872)  
-8.88 (0.873)  
p-value  
0.0017  
0.8664  
0.2375  
0.0004  
0.1949  
0.5327  
p-value  
<0.0001  
<0.0001  
<0.0001  
<0.0001  
<0.0001  
<0.0001  
N  
61  
58  
47  
46  
61  
58  
47  
46  
N  
510  
494  
511  
508  
510  
494  
511  
508  
•  Supportive study(ies) 
Study VEA ABR01 
This  was  a  randomized,  open  label,  multicenter,  two  arm,  parallel  group  study  conducted  in  Brazil. 
Male and female hypertensive adult outpatients >18 years of age were previously treated with a stable 
dose  of  up  to  two  prior  antihypertensive  medications  for  a  minimum  of  2  months.  The  primary 
efficacy  variable  was  the  proportion  of  patients  reaching  BP  control,  which  was  defined  by  the 
patient’s baseline cardiovascular risk after 12 weeks of treatment. The duration of the study including 
all phases was 17 weeks. Due to lower than expected BP control rates, the enrolment stopped at 340 
patients. Of the 264 patients who received triple combination therapy, 233 (88.3%) completed at least 
one of the treatment phases. For all ITT patients who received triple therapy, the proportion of patients 
who achieved blood pressure control at endpoint (Week 12) was 61.0%. Blood pressure control rates 
at Week 12 were similar for both randomized treatments: 43.9% for VAL/HCT/AML 160/12.5/10 mg; 
45.8%  for  VAL/HCT/AML  160/25/5  mg.  The  CHMP  considered  this  trial  of  a  limited  value  for 
efficacy evaluation, mainly due to its design. The trial was uncontrolled and not designed to compare 
the 2 groups of triple therapy (160/12.5/10mg vs 160/25/5mg) or to compare triple therapy with dual 
therapy, and furthermore, all patients were by design treated with 160/25/10mg at the end of the trial. 
Also, the number of patients within the different risk groups is small.  
37/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study VAA A2201E1 
This  was  a  52-week,  multicenter,  open-label  extension  study  to  study  2201  in  patients  with  mild  to 
moderate  uncomplicated  essential  diastolic  hypertension  conducted  in  Europe  and  America.  After 
successfully completing 8 weeks of double-blind treatment in protocol VAA A2201, patients with a 
MSDBP<90mmHg  and  MSSBP<140mmHg  could  continue  treatment  with  VAL/AML  in  this 
extension,  receiving  either  VAL/AML  80/2.5  mg  o.d.  or  80/5  mg  o.d.  for  a  period  of  four  weeks. 
Subsequently, patients without symptomatic hypotension or significant peripheral oedema were force 
titrated  to  VAL/AML  160/5  mg  o.d.  or  160/10  mg  o.d.,  respectively,  for  the  remainder  of  the  trial. 
Addition of HCT 12.5 mg was optional. The primary efficacy variable was the change from baseline 
in MSDBP at trough. Out of 1246 patients, 1075 (86.3%) completed the trial. This study was only a 
voluntary  extension  study  without  statistical  testing  and  benefit  of  triple  therapy  is  not  evident  as 
reductions  in  blood  pressure  in  the  relatively  small  subgroup  of  patients  who  added  HCT  were  not 
greater than in patients who remained on dual therapy. This study can be used for safety evaluation 
(see section Clinical safety) but does not support efficacy of the triple combination. 
Clinical safety 
Safety assessment for the triple combination AML/VAL/HCT is based on one pivotal study and one 
supportive study that evaluated the triple combination. Safety data are also provided for 4 completed 
(3  short-term  and  one  long-term)  trials,  in  which  patients  had  the  option  to  add  open-label  HCT  to 
VAL/AML,  and  for  3  completed  short-term  trials,  in  which  patients  added  either  double-blind  or 
optional open-label AML to VAL/HCT or VAL to HCT/AML. At least 1789 patients were exposed to 
triple  therapy  in  these  studies.  Deaths  and  SAEs  are  reported  for  one  ongoing  study  (Study  VAA 
AUS01) in which patients had the option to add open-label HCT to VAL/AML. No pooling of data 
was  performed,  as  major  differences in  study  designs  and absence of adequate control  preclude any 
meaningful interpretation of the pooled frequency of AEs or other pooled safety data across studies. 
Primary interpretation of AML/VAL/HCT safety is based on studies VEA A2302 and VEA ABR01. 
•  Patient exposure 
The number of patients exposed to the triple combination AML/VAL/HCT is reasonably high, 1789 
patients. The biggest contributor to the safety database is study VEA A2302. However, exposure to the 
highest dose is limited and the number of patients exposed over 6 months is small. There are no long-
term exposure data for the highest dose. The data are also limited for elderly patients, as the number of 
patients aged >65 years in the triple therapy arm of the pivotal study was 82 and that of patients aged 
>75  years just  13. There were  52  patients  aged  >65  in  the  study  VEA  ABR01.  A  further  drawback 
identified  by  the  CHMP  was  the  fact  that  some  subpopulations  likely  to  benefit  most  from  a  triple 
combination  were  excluded  or  underrepresented,  since  patients  with  known  ischemic  heart  disease, 
patients with renal impairment (as measured by creatinine ≥ 1.5 x ULN), type 1 diabetic patients as 
well as type  2  diabetic  patients  not  well  controlled  were excluded  from  the  study.  Very  few elderly 
were included. Even more limited is the exposure to long-term (6-12 months) triple therapy and none 
of these were exposed to the high strength AML/VAL/HCT 320/25/10mg. 
Exposure to study drug by treatment (safety population, study VEA A2302) 
Duration of 
exposure (days) 
VAL/HCT/AML 320/25/10 mg 
N=582 
Mean (SD)  
Median  
Range  
53.7 (12.16)  
56.0  
1-87  
Overall days of exposure by interval (n %)  
1 -7 days  
8 - 14 days  
14 ( 2.4) 
7 ( 1.2) 
15 – 28 days  
29 - 42 days 
43 - 49 days  
50 - 56 days 
57+ days 
15 ( 2.6) 
16 ( 2.7) 
16 ( 2.7) 
288 (49.5) 
226 (38.8) 
VAL/HCT 
320/25 mg 
N=559 
53.9 (12.52) 
VAL/AML 
320/10 mg 
N=566 
55.0 (10.59) 
HCT/AML 
25/10 mg 
N=561 
Total 
N=2268 
54.1 (11.83)   54.1 (11.80)  
56.0  
1-161  
56.0  
1-104  
56.0  
1-92  
56.0  
1-161  
7 ( 1.3) 
10 ( 1.8) 
20 ( 3.6) 
20 ( 3.6) 
7 ( 1.3) 
260 (46.5) 
8 ( 1.4) 
6 ( 1.1) 
8 ( 1.4) 
13 ( 2.3) 
11 ( 1.9) 
291 (51.4) 
10 ( 1.8) 
10 ( 1.8) 
12 ( 2.1) 
17 ( 3.0) 
6 ( 1.1) 
269 (48.0) 
39 ( 1.7) 
33 ( 1.5) 
55 ( 2.4) 
66 ( 2.9) 
40 ( 1.8) 
1108 (48.9) 
235 (42.0) 
229 (40.5) 
237 (42.2) 
927 (40.9) 
38/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Adverse events  
In Study VEA A2302, the most frequently reported adverse events (AEs) in the total safety population 
were  peripheral  oedema  (5.7%),  headache  (5.4%),  and  dizziness  (5.2%).  Dizziness  occurred  more 
often  with  triple  therapy  (7.7%)  and  VAL/HCT  (7.0%)  than  with  VAL/AML  (2.3%)  or  HCT/AML 
(3.9%). Peripheral oedema occurred more often with HCT/AML (8.9%) and VAL/AML (8.5%) than 
with  triple  therapy  (4.5%)  or  VAL/HCT  (0.9%).  Frequencies  of  other  AEs  were  similar  across 
treatment groups, as shown in the table below. 
Adverse events (>2% in VAL/HCT/AML group), regardless of study drug relationship, by preferred term 
and treatment (safety population, Study VEA A2302) 
VAL/HCT/AML 
320/25/10 mg N=582 
Total  
N=2268 
Preferred term 
Any preferred term 
Dizziness 
Edema peripheral 
Headache 
Dyspepsia 
Fatigue 
Muscle spasms 
Back pain 
Nasopharyngitis 
Nausea 
n (%) 
263 (45.2) 
45 ( 7.7) 
26 ( 4.5) 
25 ( 4.3) 
13 ( 2.2) 
13 ( 2.2) 
13 ( 2.2) 
12 ( 2.1) 
12 ( 2.1) 
12 ( 2.1) 
VAL/HCT 
320/25 mg 
N=559 
n (%) 
253 (45.3) 
VAL/AML 
320/10 mg 
N=566 
n (%) 
254 (44.9) 
HCT/AML 
25/10 mg 
N=561 
n (%) 
271 (48.3) 
39 ( 7.0) 
5 ( 0.9) 
30 ( 5.4) 
5 ( 0.9) 
15 ( 2.7) 
7 ( 1.3) 
13 ( 2.3) 
13 ( 2.3) 
7 ( 1.3) 
13 ( 2.3) 
48 ( 8.5) 
28 ( 4.9) 
6 ( 1.1) 
12 ( 2.1) 
7 ( 1.2) 
5 ( 0.9) 
13 ( 2.3) 
10 ( 1.8) 
22 ( 3.9) 
50 ( 8.9) 
39 ( 7.0) 
2 ( 0.4) 
8 ( 1.4) 
5 ( 0.9) 
12 ( 2.1) 
12 ( 2.1) 
12 ( 2.1) 
n (%) 
1041 (45.9) 
119 ( 5.2) 
129 ( 5.7) 
122 ( 5.4) 
26 ( 1.1) 
48 ( 2.1) 
32 ( 1.4) 
42 ( 1.9) 
50 ( 2.2) 
41 ( 1.8) 
Adverse events classified as severe occurred in 3.0% of the total safety population and at similar rates 
across  treatment  groups.  AEs  potentially  related  to  low  blood  pressure  occurred  at  very  low 
frequencies, apart from dizziness. Hypotension occurred more often in the triple therapy group (1.5%) 
and the VAL/HCT group (1.4%) than in the VAL/AML or HCT/AML treatment groups. Otherwise, 
frequencies were similar across treatment groups.  
The incidence of AEs suspected to be related to study treatment ranged from 14.3-22.9% across the 
treatment groups. The preferred terms most frequently suspected to be study drug related were those 
known  to  be  associated  with  the  various  monotherapies.  Dizziness  occurred  more  often  with  triple 
therapy and VAL/HCT compared to the other two treatments. 
Number (percent) of patients with suspected study drug-related adverse events by preferred term (greater 
than or equal to 2 percent for any treatment group; safety population, study VEA A2302) 
Total 
N=2268 
n (%) 
Preferred term 
Val/HCT/AML 
320/25/10 mg 
N=582 
n (%) 
Val/HCT 
320/25 mg 
N=559 
n (%) 
VAL/AML 
320/10 mg 
N=566 
n (%) 
HCT/AML 
25/10 mg 
N=561 
n (%) 
All AEs suspected to be 
study drug related 
Dizziness 
Edema peripheral 
Headache 
Edema 
133 (22.9) 
80 (14.3) 
90 (15.9) 
112 (20.0) 
415 (18.3) 
29 (5.0) 
19 (3.3) 
9 (1.5) 
6 (1.0) 
23 (4.1) 
2 (0.4) 
7 (1.3) 
0 (0.0) 
5 (0.9) 
35 (6.2) 
2 (0.4) 
13 (2.3) 
11 (2.0) 
41 (7.3) 
12 (2.1) 
11 (2.0) 
68 (3.0) 
97 (4.3) 
30 (1.3) 
30 (1.3) 
* Preferred terms are sorted by total incidences (descending) in the VALl/HCT/AML treatment group  
Additional analyses of peripheral oedema and oedema (pooled terms) were performed in this pivotal 
study,  because  oedema  is  a  known  common  side  effect  of  AML.  As  shown  in  the  table  below,  the 
incidence of peripheral oedema with triple therapy was statistically significantly less than that reported 
with  VAL/AML  and  HCT/AML  but  greater  than  that  reported  with  VAL/HCT.  It  is  noted  that  the 
incidence of oedema may be considerably higher: in study VEA ABR01 the incidence of oedema in 
patients  on 
treatment  was  35.2%  for  VAL/HCT/AML  160 
mg/12.5 mg/10 mg and 21.3% for VAL/HCT/AML 160 mg/25 mg/5 mg. 
therapy  randomised 
triple 
to 
39/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparison of peripheral oedema occurrence between treatment groups  
(safety population, study VEA A2302) 
Treatment comparison (A vs B, mg) 
VAL/HCT/AML 320/25/10 vs VAL/HCT 320/25 
Treatment A 
n/N (%) 
26/582 (4.5) 
VAL/HCT/AML 320/25/10 vs VAL/AML 320/10 
VAL/HCT/AML 320/25/10 vs HCT/AML 25/10 
26/582 (4.5) 
26/582 (4.5) 
Treatment B 
n/N (%) 
5/559 (0.9) 
48/566 (8.5) 
50/561 (8.9) 
p-value 
0.0002 * 
0.0057 * 
0.0029 * 
In  the  long-term  study  (2201E1)  the  most  frequently  reported  AEs  were  peripheral  oedema, 
nasopharyngitis,  dizziness,  headache  and  back  pain.  Peripheral  oedema  occurred  at  an  incidence  of 
17.1% in the higher dose and 9.7% in the lower dose group. There were no severe AEs reported in 
patients  who  received  VAL/HCT/AML  80  mg/12.5  mg/2.5  mg,  whereas  7  patients  (4.7%)  who 
received VAL/HCT/AML 160 mg/12.5 mg/5 mg had severe AEs. In the high dose group, severe AEs 
were  reported  by  3  patients  (16.7%)  who  received  VAL/HCT/AML  80  mg/12.5  mg/5  mg  and  4 
patients (4.1%) who received VAL/HCT/AML 160 mg/12.5 mg/10 mg. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
No  deaths  occurred  in the completed  studies  and  there  were  no  deaths  in the  long-term  study  VAA 
A2201E1 among patients who received triple therapy of VAL/HCT/AML.  
In the pivotal study VEA A2302, 21 patients (0.9%) experienced at least one SAE. Of the 47 SAEs 
reported,  all  occurred  at  similar  frequencies  across  treatment  groups,  and  were  not  clustered  in  any 
particular system organ class. Most patients (76%) were hospitalized as a result of their SAEs. Slightly 
more than half (52%) were discontinued, and 43% recovered from all of their events. In  most cases 
(72%), the investigator did not suspect a relationship between the events and study drug. Five patients 
in the triple therapy group experienced SAEs. One patient had a study drug related hypokalaemia and 
another  subject  experienced  several  SAEs:  abasia,  neuropathy,  abnormal  coordination,  asthenia  and 
acute  renal  failure;  all  suspected  to  be  study  drug  related;  hyponatremia,  urinary  tract  infection, 
rhabdomyolysis,  fungal  rash,  chronic  obstructive  pulmonary  disease  and  hypomagnesemia,  none  of 
which  were  suspected  to  be  study  drug  related.  One  patient  had  a  study  drug  unrelated  myocardial 
infarction,  coronary  artery  disease  and  angina  pectoris.  Another  patient  had  study  drug  unrelated 
pancreatitis, nausea and abdominal pain, none of which were suspected to be study drug related. One 
patient had a cerebrovascular accident and muscular weakness, neither of which was suspected to be 
study drug related. These 5 patients were discontinued as a result of one or more SAEs, and 4 of them 
were hospitalized. 
In  the  supportive  study  VEA  ABR01,  2  patients  (2.1%)  had  SAEs  and  both  were  in  the 
VAL/HCT/AML  160/25/5 mg  group.  Both  patients  were hospitalized,  but  neither  was discontinued. 
None of these events was suspected to be study drug related. Out of the total safety population of 1246 
patients in the long-term study VAA A2201E1, 49 (3.9%) had SAEs, five of whom were taking triple 
therapy. None of these events was suspected to be study drug related. 
Furhermore, 
monocomponents. 
the  SPC 
for  Dafiro  HCT 
reflects 
the  contraindications 
identified 
for 
the 
•  Laboratory findings 
No unexpected laboratory abnormalities were noted for patients treated with triple therapy. The largest 
number of patients with clinically notable abnormalities was an increase in BUN where the greatest 
incidence  was  in  the  VAL/HCT/AML  and  the  VAL/HCT  groups.  There  was  generally  greater 
incidence of increases in creatinine, uric acid, and calcium in groups receiving HCT. Mean potassium 
decreased in all treatment groups containing HCT with the greatest decrease in the HCT/AML group 
(-0.39 mmol/L) and smaller decreases in the VAL/HCT/AML (-0.16 mmol/L) and the VAL/HCTZ (-
0.08 mmol/L) groups. The counteracting effects of VAL 320 mg and HCT 25 mg on serum potassium 
approximately balanced each other in many patients. In other patients, one or the other effect may be 
dominant.  Periodic  determinations  of  serum  electrolytes  to  detect  possible  electrolyte  imbalance 
should be performed at appropriate intervals as reflected in the SPC. 
40/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Periodic  determination  of  serum  electrolytes  and  potassium  in  particular  should  be  performed  at 
appropriate  intervals  to  detect  possible  electrolyte  imbalance,  especially  in  patients  with  other  risk 
factors  such  as  impaired  renal  function,  treatment  with  other  medicinal  products  or  history  of  prior 
electrolyte imbalances. 
•  Safety in special populations 
No special population studies were performed. Subgroup evaluations of AEs were conducted for the 
pivotal study by age, gender, race and diabetic status. No specific characteristics were found for any of 
these  subgroups.    The  overall  incidence  of  AEs  was  lower  in  elderly  patients  (≥  65  years)  than  in 
younger patients in the triple therapy group. Dizziness occurred at similar rates in elderly and younger 
patients in the triple therapy group and was higher in elderly patients in the triple therapy group (7.3%) 
compared  to  elderly  patients  in  the  dual  therapy  groups  (3.9-5.3%).  Peripheral  oedema  rates  were 
similar between elderly and younger patients within each treatment group. The incidence of peripheral 
oedema was less in both elderly and younger patients in the triple therapy group compared to the same 
subgroup  in  the  other  dual  therapy  groups  containing  AML.  It  should  be  noted,  however,  that  only 
14% of patients in the pivotal study were above 65 years. Only 14 patients (2.2%) were >75 years. No 
dose adjustment of Dafiro HCT is required for patients with mild to moderate renal impairment (GFR 
>30 ml/min/1.73 m2),  but  periodic  monitoring  of  serum  potassium,  creatinine  and  uric  acid  is 
recommended. 
There is no experience on the use of AML/HCT/VAL in pregnancy. Based on the existing data with 
the components, the use of Dafiro HCT is not recommneded during first trimester and contra-indicated 
during the second and third trimester of pregnancy. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No  studies  were  conducted  to  evaluate  drug  interactions  with  the  triple  therapy  of  VAL/HCT/AML 
and  other  concomitant  medications.  Drug  interactions  reported  for  each  of  the  individual  mono-
components is contained in the current prescribing information for VAL, HCT and AML, and are also 
reflected in the SPC of the triple combination AML/HCT/VAL. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In  the  pivotal  study  VEA  A2302,  AEs  that  led  to  discontinuation  occurred  in  3%  of  patients  in  the 
safety  population  (VAL/HCT/AML,  4.0%;  HCT/AML,  3.4%;  VAL/HCT,  2.9%  and  VAL/AML, 
1.6%). The most common AEs leading to discontinuation in the triple therapy group were dizziness 
and hypotension. The incidence of discontinuations due to dizziness was 1.0% on triple therapy, 1.1% 
on VAL/HCT, 0.4% on VAL/AML, and 0.2% on HCT/AML. Hypotension led to the discontinuation 
in  0.7%  of  patients  on  triple  therapy,  and  1.1%  on  VAL/HCT.  Peripheral  oedema  led  to  the 
discontinuation in  0.2%  of  patients  on triple therapy,  0.4%  on VAL/AML and 0.9% on  HCT/AML. 
Overall,  discontinuations  due  to  AEs  did  not  appear  to  be  more  frequent  in  triple  therapy  in 
comparison  with  double  combinations,  although  there  may  be  a  slightly  increased  risk  of 
discontinuation  due  to  hypotension  related  effects  in  the  triple  therapy  patients.  Nevertheless,  the 
absolute number of discontinuations is not sufficient to draw firm conclusions. 
•  Post marketing experience 
The VAL/AML/HCT fixed triple combination is currently not marketed; however, limited safety data 
are available from the safety database on the use of free combination of this triple combination. The 
search performed on all AEs reported for VAL administered with AML and HCT as co-medication up 
to the cut-off date of May 2008 retrieved 129 case reports that matched the proposed criteria with 648 
events  classified  according  to  MedDRA  preferred  terms  and  respective  System  Organ  Class.  One 
patient  may  have  experienced  several  events.  The  mean  number  of  events  per  case  is  5.02.  The 
reported  events  are  already  included  in  the  prescribing  information  for  the  mono-components  of 
VAL/HCT/AML  for  which  causality  can  be  explained  by  co-medications,  co-morbidities  or 
underlying disease. 
41/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system, version 2.0, as described by the applicant 
fulfils the legislative requirements. The applicant has the services of a qualified person responsible for 
pharmacovigilance and has the necessary means for the notification of any adverse reaction of 
occurring either in the Community or in a third country.   
Risk Management Plan 
The  CHMP  did  not  require  the  MAA  to  submit  a  risk  management  plan  for  AML/VAL/HCT  fixed 
combination and this was not proposed by the applicant based on the following rationale: 
-  Considerable  safety  information  is  available  on  individual  components  (AML,  VAL,  HCT)  and 
two  double  combination  products  (VAL/HCT  and  AML/VAL).  This  safety  information  is  well 
documented and communicated to regulators and health care professionals. This should contribute 
to the minimisation of the risk of the triple combination. 
-  No new safety concern emerged during the pre-clinical and clinical development program of the 
combination product of AML/VAL/HCT.   
-  The proposed SPC contains the relevant safety information about AEs observed during the clinical 
development  programme  in  addition  to  AEs  present  in  the  SPC  of  its  individual  components. 
Thus,  the  proposed  SPC  contains  the  relevant  information  needed  to  minimise  risks  associated 
with the use of the triple combination in clinical practice.  
The  applicant  is  committed  to  continuous  risk/benefit  evaluation  of  Dafiro  HCT  once  placed  on  the 
market. Ongoing routine pharmacovigilance programs are to be implemented for screening safety data 
for  any  new  potential  or  identified  signals  for  the  mono-components  and  the  double  combinations. 
Similar  programme  will  be  initiated  for  Dafiro  HCT.  New  safety  information  derived  from  routine 
pharmacovigilance  activities  will  be  evaluated  and  need  for  further  action  assessed  in  collaboration 
with the Health Authorities. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  At  the 
time of the opinion, there are some unresolved quality issues, which do not have a negative impact on 
the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  combination  consists  of 
three  well-described  compounds,  amlodipin,  valsartan  and 
hydrochlorothiazide. The pharmacology of the triple combination has not been investigated; however, 
it  is  deemed  acceptable  due  to  the  pre-clinical  and  clinical  knowledge  of  the  individual  compounds 
and the combinations of VAL/AML and VAL/HCT. The literature overviews supported the concept 
that a combination therapy with VAL, HCTZ and AML elicits synergistic effects on blood pressure 
control and associated alterations in the vascular system and heart. It is suggested that these benefits 
would also be obtained in hypertensive patients, including those with co-morbidities such us diabetes. 
Nevertheless,  the  pharmacovigilance  system  put  in  place  will  ensure  detection  of  any  safety  signals 
should these arise in clinical practice.  
Due  to  the  distinct  mechanisms  of  action  of  these  classes  of  drugs,  the  combination  therapy  is 
anticipated to be more effective than the monotherapy. The pharmacokinetics of the triple combination 
was  investigated  as  part  of  the  toxicokinetics  of  the  pivotal  repeat-dose  toxicity  study.  The 
pharmacokinetic  profiles  of  the  mono-components  are  well  known.  Even  though  differences  in 
42/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pharmacokinetics/toxicokinetics could not be completely excluded in the 13-week toxicity study, the 
lack  of  pharmacokinetic  interactions  between  the  three  compounds  has  been  confirmed  by  clinical 
data. Toxicological evaluation of the triple combination of AML/VAL/HCT comprising of two dose 
toxicity  study  and  2-  and  13-week  repeat  dose  toxicity  studies  in  the  rat  showed  gastrointestinal 
inflammation  with  focal  glandular  erosions  and  histopathological  changes  in  the  kidney,  most 
probably due to the local irritation caused by VAL. Co-administration did not show an impact on the 
toxicokinetics of HCT and AML, while an effect on the toxicokinetics of VAL cannot be excluded due 
to the higher exposure to VAL in combination when compared to monotherapy. VAL and AML are 
non-genotoxic compounds. HCT has been safely used for several decades and although the genotoxic 
potential  cannot  be  entirely  excluded,  the  lack  of  further  information  is  exceptionally  deemed 
acceptable  as  the  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  genotoxicity  studies  indicate  unlike  genotoxicity,  and  the 
compound  has  been  extensively  used  in  clinical  practice  for  a  long  time.  Reproductive  toxicity  has 
previously  been  assessed  for  AML  and  VAL  and  the  recommendation  for  the  products  use  in 
pregnancy are similar to that for the marketed AML/VAL combination. No specific carcinogenicity or 
local  tolerance  and  other  toxicity  studies  have  been  conducted  which  is  in  line  with  applicable 
guidelines. The Environmental Risk Assessment was proved incomplete and thus, there are currently a 
number  of  post-authorisation  follow-up  measures  agreed in  order to effectively assess the  impact  of 
AML/VAL/HCT on the environment. 
Efficacy 
The  prevalence  of  hypertension  in  Europe  ranges  from  20-30%  in  the  3rd  and  4th  decades  of  life  to 
more  than  70%  in  the  age  group  of  patients  over  65  years.  Majority  of  patients  need  combination 
treatment  to  control their blood  pressure.  This is  also  reflected in  the  patterns of  medicine  use. The 
current  product,  Dafiro  HCT, is  a combination of  3 active  substances from  3  different drug  classes, 
each  of  which  is  recommended  as  an  option  for  the  first  line  treatment  of  essential  hypertension. 
Efficacy  of  the  mono-components  and  two  dual  combinations  (VAL/HCT,  VAL/AML)  has  been 
proven  in  the  past.  Two  completed  studies  assessed  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  AML/VAL/HCT 
combination: the pivotal VEA A2302 study and the supportive VEA ABR01 study. Some long-term 
data were provided in the extension study A2201E1.  
the 
target  population  for 
Study VEA A2302 evaluated the efficacy and safety of once-daily treatment with the combination of 
VAL/HCT/AML  320/25/10  mg  compared  to  3  dual  therapies:  VAL/HCT  320/25  mg,  VAL/AML 
320/10 mg, and HCT/AML 25/10 mg in hypertensive patients. The patients (n=2271) suffered from 
moderate  to  severe  hypertension,  i.e.  grade  2  and  3  hypertension  based  on  the  Task  force  for  the 
management of hypertension of the European society of hypertension (ESH) and the European society 
of  cardiology  (ESC).  This  study  population  represented 
triple 
antihypertensive therapy. It is however, noted that the presentation of the elderly population is limited 
and  patients  with  some  co-morbidities,  e.g.  type  1  diabetes  mellitus,  heart  disease,  were  excluded. 
Following  the  pre-randomisation  phase,  patients  were  randomised  to  a  triple  combination 
VAL/HCT/AML 320/25/10 mg or the dual combinations of VAL/HCT 320/25 mg, VAL/AML 320/10 
mg,  and  HCT/AML  25/10  mg.  The  treatment  phase  was  initiated  by  a  two-week  forced-titration  to 
achieve the maximum once-daily doses of study treatment. Treatment with the highest dose strength 
continued  for  an  additional  6  weeks.  All  doses  used  in  the  study,  whether  as  monotherapy  or 
combination  therapy,  are  approved  for  the  treatment  of  hypertension.  At  week 8,  the  triple 
combination  therapy  was  statistically  superior  to  each  of  the  three  dual  combination  treatments  in 
reduction of diastolic and systolic blood pressures. The reductions in systolic/diastolic blood pressure 
with Dafiro HCT were 7.6/5.0 mmHg greater than with VAL/HCT, 6.2/3.3 mmHg  greater than with 
AML/VAL, and 8.2/5.3 mmHg greater than with AML/HCT. The full blood pressure lowering effect 
was  achieved  2 weeks  after  being  on  their  maximal  dose  of  Dafiro  HCT.  Statistically  greater 
proportions  of  patients  achieved  blood  pressure  control  with  Dafiro  HCT  compared  to  each  of  the 
three  dual  combination  therapies. The  observed  efficacy  was  not  influenced  by  gender,  whereas the 
efficacy  was  less  convincing  when  adjusting  for  age  (≥  65  years)  and  race  (black  racial  subgroup 
population).  Although  the  observed  effect  on  blood  pressure  is  of  clinical  relevance  and  the  triple 
combination  therapy  is  of  greater  convenience  compared  to  3  single  or  dual  +  single  therapies,  the 
number of included subjects above the age of 65 years or belonging to the black subgroup population 
was, however low, and considering the exclusion of patients with comorbidities, the results should be 
treated with caution. Generally, increase in patient treatment compliance is expected. 
43/ 45 
 
 
Safety 
The  safety  database  is  mainly  based  on  582  hypertensive  patients  who  received  triple  therapy  with 
VAL/HCT/AML  in  the  pivotal  study  VEA  A2302.  Furthermore  there  are  safety  data  from  960 
additional  hypertensive  patients  who  received  triple  therapy  in  7  other  unrelated  trials.  At  least  247 
and  up  to  271  patients  received  triple  therapy  for  6-12  months  where  HCT  12.5  mg  was  optionally 
added to VAL/AML 160/5 mg or 160/10 mg. There is no long term data on the highest strength with 
VAL  320  mg.  In  the  pivotal  study  where  the  maximum  dose  of  VAL/HCT/AML  was  studied,  the 
overall  incidence  of  AEs  was  similar  in  patients  receiving  triple  therapy  compared  to  patients 
receiving dual therapy. The most common AEs in the triple therapy group were dizziness, peripheral 
oedema, and headache. There were no deaths; discontinuation due to AEs did not appear to be more 
frequent  with  triple  therapy.  Although  no  new  safety  signals  were  identified  with  triple  therapy,  the 
long-term  data  for  the  high  strength  containing  VAL  320mg  were  lacking.  Based  on  the  submitted 
post-marketing  experience  with  the  use  of  VAL,  the  exposure  for  VAL  320  mg,  and  VAL  320  mg 
with HCT in Europe (as well as globally) represents a minor part of the overall exposure to VAL, but 
is regarded as sufficient to document "widespread use". Furthermore, the prescriptions for VAL 320 
mg and VAL 320mg with HCT have been increasing almost constantly in the past 2 years. The 320 
mg VAL dose is fairly well represented and the elderly patients, including those over 75 years of age. 
In addition, results from the new subgroup analyses of the pivotal study VEA A2302 for elderly >65 
years,  type  2  diabetic  patients,  patients  with  mild  and  moderate  renal  impairment  and  patients  with 
severe systolic hypertension are generally reassuring for both efficacy and safety for these subgroups. 
Caution is advisable due to the small patient numbers, especially patients with ischemic heart disease, 
type 1 diabetes and patients > 75 years.  
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  along  with  the  data  available  from  the  use  of  the  mono-
coponents. 
•  User consultation 
The overall quality of the user testing of the package leaflet for Dafiro HCT is considered acceptable. 
The overall quality of the methodology and evaluation is positive. The weaknesses identified by the 
CHMP were addressed appropriately and the Patient Information Leaflet is considered to contain all 
necessary information. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
The main benefit of the product is the assumed better compliance with antihypertensive therapy when 
the  pill  burden  is  reduced  in  patients  who  are  using  triple  therapy  with  amlodipine,  valsartan  and 
hydrochlorothiazide  free  combination.  Bioequivalence  for  the  lower  dose  strengths  of  the  triple 
combination  was  proven  and  there  is  a  wide  therapeutic  experience  in  their  use.  In  line  with  the 
CHMP/EWP/191583/2005  Questions  and  answers  document  on  the  clinical  development  of  fixed 
combinations  of  drugs  belonging  to  different  therapeutic  classes  in  the  field  of  CV  treatment  and 
prevention,  proof  of  bioequivalence  between  the  fixed  combination  and  its  mono-components  is 
sufficient provided drugs with a wide therapeutic experience and an adequately established benefit/risk 
ratio  are  concerned.  From  this  point  of  view,  no  objections  exist  against  the  lower  strengths  of  the 
fixed combinations:  
VAL/HCT/AML 160/12.5/5 mg 
VAL/HCT/AML 160/12.5/10 mg 
VAL/HCT/AML 160/25/5 mg 
VAL/HCT/AML 160/25/10 mg 
With respect to the replacement indication for the highest dose VAL/HCT/AML 320/25/10 mg, further 
triple  combination 
efficacy  and  safety  data  were  necessary.  The  pivotal  study  with 
VAL/HCT/AML  320/25/10  mg  induced  a  reduction  in  both  MSDBP  and  MSSBP  which  was 
statistically  significantly  superior  to  VAL/HCT  320/25  mg,  VAL/AML  320/10  mg  and  HCT/AML 
25/10  mg.  The  main  risks  relate  to  the  limited  data  available  on  the  use  of  VAL  320  mg  and  the 
the 
44/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
characteristics of the pivotal study population. Nevertheless, there is increasing evidence based on the 
prescription data showing an increase in the use of VAL 320 mg in the majority of EU countries. In 
addition, the substitution indication for Dafiro HCT guarantees that only patients already treated with 
the free combination of AML, VAL and HCT will be given the fixed combination product. 
A risk management plan was not submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of 
the opinion that routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Dafiro  HCT  in  the  treatment  of  essential  hypertension  as 
substitution  therapy  in  adult  patients  whose  blood  pressure  is  adequately  controlled  on  the 
combination  of  amlodipine,  valsartan  and  hydrochlorothiazide  (HCT),  taken  either  as  three  single-
component formulations or as a dual-component and a single-component formulation was favourable 
and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
45/ 45 
 
 
 
 
 
