EMA/69114/2023 
EMEA/H/C/006006 
Dapagliflozin Viatris (dapagliflozin) 
An overview of Dapagliflozin Viatris and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Dapagliflozin Viatris and what is it used for? 
Dapagliflozin Viatris is a medicine used to treat type 2 diabetes, chronic (long-term) heart failure and 
chronic kidney disease. 
In type 2 diabetes, Dapagliflozin Viatris is used in adults and children from 10 years of age whose 
condition is not controlled well enough. It is used with appropriate diet and exercise in patients who 
cannot take metformin (another diabetes medicine). It can also be used as ‘add-on’ treatment to other 
diabetes medicines. 
In chronic heart failure (inability of the heart to pump enough blood around the body), Dapagliflozin 
Viatris is used in adults who have symptoms of the disease and reduced ejection fraction (a measure of 
how well the heart pumps blood).  
Dapagliflozin Viatris is also used in adults with chronic kidney disease. 
Dapagliflozin Viatris is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Dapagliflozin Viatris contains the same 
active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU 
called Forxiga. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document 
here. 
Dapagliflozin Viatris contains the active substance dapagliflozin. 
How is Dapagliflozin Viatris used? 
Dapagliflozin Viatris is available as tablets and can only be obtained with a prescription.  
For type 2 diabetes, chronic heart failure and chronic kidney disease, the recommended dose of 
Dapagliflozin Viatris is 10 mg once a day.  
For type 2 diabetes, if Dapagliflozin Viatris is used with insulin or medicines that help the body produce 
insulin, the doses of these medicines may need to be reduced to prevent hypoglycaemia (low blood 
sugar levels). 
For more information about using Dapagliflozin Viatris, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Dapagliflozin Viatris work? 
The active substance in Dapagliflozin Viatris, dapagliflozin, blocks the action of a protein in the kidneys 
called sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2). As blood is filtered by the kidneys, SGLT2 stops the 
kidneys passing glucose from the blood into the urine. Patients with diabetes have high levels of 
glucose in the blood. By blocking the action of SGLT2, dapagliflozin causes the kidneys to pass more 
glucose into the urine, thereby reducing the levels of glucose in the blood.  
Blocking the action of SGLT2 also supports heart function in patients with chronic heart failure and 
kidney function in patients with chronic kidney disease, regardless of having diabetes. Dapagliflozin’s 
actions increase the removal of salt and water in the urine. This decreases the overall blood volume, 
reducing the effort needed for the heart to pump blood, thereby improving its function in patients with 
heart failure and also preserving kidney function.  
How has Dapagliflozin Viatris been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Forxiga, and do not need to be repeated for Dapagliflozin 
Viatris.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Dapagliflozin Viatris. The 
company also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two 
medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body 
and are therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Dapagliflozin Viatris ? 
Because Dapagliflozin Viatris is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Dapagliflozin Viatris authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Dapagliflozin 
Viatris has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Forxiga. Therefore, the 
Agency’s view was that, as for Forxiga, the benefits of Dapagliflozin Viatris outweigh the identified risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Dapagliflozin Viatris? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Dapagliflozin Viatris have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Dapagliflozin Viatris are continuously monitored. Suspected 
side effects reported with Dapagliflozin Viatris are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken 
to protect patients. 
Other information about Dapagliflozin Viatris  
Dapagliflozin Viatris received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 24 March 2023. 
Dapagliflozin Viatris (dapagliflozin)  
EMA/69114/2023  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
Further information on Dapagliflozin Viatris can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/dapagliflozin-viatris. Information on the reference medicine 
can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 03-2023. 
Dapagliflozin Viatris (dapagliflozin)  
EMA/69114/2023  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
