EMA/574748/2019 
EMEA/H/C/004310 
Daptomycin Hospira (daptomycin) 
An overview of Daptomycin Hospira and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Daptomycin Hospira and what is it used for? 
Daptomycin Hospira is an antibiotic medicine used to treat the following bacterial infections: 
• 
• 
• 
complicated infections of the skin and ‘soft tissue’ below the skin in patients from 1 year of age. 
‘Complicated’ means that the infection is difficult to treat, because it has spread to the deep tissues 
below the skin, treatment with surgery might be needed, or the patient has other conditions that 
might affect how well treatment works; 
right-sided infective endocarditis (infection of the lining or the valves of the right side of the heart) 
caused by the bacterium Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) in adults. The decision to treat this 
infection with Daptomycin Hospira should be based on the likelihood that the medicine will work 
against the infection and on advice from an expert; 
bacteraemia (infection of the blood) caused by S. aureus. It is used in adults, when the 
bacteraemia is associated with either of the two infections above, or in adolescents and children 
from 1 year of age when the bacteraemia is associated with complicated infections of the skin and 
soft tissue. 
Prescribers should consider the official guidance on the use of antibiotics. 
Daptomycin Hospira contains the active substance daptomycin. It is a ‘generic medicine’. This means 
that Daptomycin Hospira contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Cubicin. For more 
information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Daptomycin Hospira used? 
Daptomycin Hospira is given by infusion (drip) into a vein.  
In adults, for skin or soft tissue infections without bacteraemia, Daptomycin Hospira is given at a dose 
of 4 mg/kg body weight once a day. For endocarditis and for skin or soft tissue infection with 
bacteraemia, the dose is 6 mg/kg once a day. Daptomycin Hospira is given into a vein as an infusion 
lasting 30 minutes or as an injection lasting 2 minutes. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
In children, the dose of Daptomycin Hospira for skin or soft tissue infection without bacteraemia 
depends on the child’s age and ranges between 5 and 10 mg/kg body weight once a day. Higher doses 
(between 7 and 12 mg/kg once a day) are used if the skin or soft tissue infection is associated with 
bacteraemia. Daptomycin Hospira is given by infusion lasting 60 minutes in children aged 1 to 6 years 
and 30 minutes in those aged above 7 years.  
The duration of treatment with Daptomycin Hospira depends on the risk of complications and official 
recommendations.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. For more information about using Daptomycin 
Hospira, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Daptomycin Hospira work?  
The active substance in Daptomycin Hospira, daptomycin, is an antibiotic that belongs to the group 
‘lipopeptides’. It can stop the growth of certain types of bacteria by attaching to the membrane 
surrounding the bacterial cell and upsetting the essential functions that keep the cell alive.  
How has Daptomycin Hospira been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Cubicin, and do not need to be repeated for Daptomycin 
Hospira.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Daptomycin Hospira. There was 
no need for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Daptomycin Hospira is absorbed similarly to 
the reference medicine to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This is because 
Daptomycin Hospira is given into a vein, so the active substance is delivered straight into the 
bloodstream. 
What are the benefits and risks of Daptomycin Hospira? 
Because Daptomycin Hospira is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same 
as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Daptomycin Hospira authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Daptomycin 
Hospira has been shown to be comparable to Cubicin. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for 
Cubicin, the benefit of Daptomycin Hospira outweighs the identified risk and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Daptomycin Hospira? 
The company that markets Daptomycin Hospira will provide all doctors who are expected to use this 
medicine with a dosage card to ensure the safe use of Daptomycin Hospira. In addition, the company 
will also provide a leaflet for laboratories explaining how to test to see if an infection is likely to 
respond to the medicine. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Daptomycin Hospira have also been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
Daptomycin Hospira (daptomycin)  
EMA/574748/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Daptomycin Hospira are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Daptomycin Hospira are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Daptomycin Hospira 
Daptomycin Hospira received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 22 March 2017. 
Further information on Daptomycin Hospira can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/daptomycin-hospira 
Information on the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 10-2019. 
Daptomycin Hospira (daptomycin)  
EMA/574748/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
