EMA/751579/2016 
EMEA/H/C/004068 
EPAR summary for the public 
Darunavir Mylan 
darunavir 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Darunavir Mylan. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Darunavir Mylan. 
For practical information about using Darunavir Mylan, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Darunavir Mylan and what is it used for? 
Darunavir Mylan is an antiviral medicine used with other HIV medicines to treat patients with human 
immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), a virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome 
(AIDS). It is given with low-dose ritonavir or, in adults, with cobicistat. Darunavir Mylan may be given 
to adults or children from 3 years of age and weighing at least 15 kg. 
Darunavir Mylan contains the active substance darunavir. 
Darunavir Mylan is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Darunavir Mylan contains the same active 
substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European 
Union (EU) called Prezista. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer 
document here. 
How is Darunavir Mylan used? 
Darunavir Mylan can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a 
healthcare professional who has experience in the management of HIV infection. 
Darunavir Mylan is available as tablets (75, 150, 300, 400, 600 and 800 mg). The medicine is always 
taken either with cobicistat (in adults) or with low-dose ritonavir (in adults and children) and with other 
HIV medicines, and should be taken with food. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
For adults who have not been treated before, the recommended dose is 800 mg once a day. For adults 
who have been treated before, the dose is 600 mg twice a day. Previously treated patients can also 
take a dose of 800 mg once a day provided that their HIV infection is well controlled and is not likely to 
be resistant to darunavir. 
For children aged 3 to 17 years and weighing at least 15 kg who have not be treated before, the 
recommended dose varies between 600 and 800 mg once daily depending on their weight. For 
previously treated children the usually recommended dose varies between 375 and 600 mg twice a day 
depending on their weight. 
For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Darunavir Mylan work? 
The active substance in Darunavir Mylan, darunavir, is a protease inhibitor. It blocks protease, an 
enzyme involved in the reproduction of HIV. When the enzyme is blocked, the virus does not reproduce 
normally, slowing down its multiplication in the body. Darunavir Mylan is always given with ritonavir or 
cobicistat. Ritonavir and cobicistat reduce the breakdown of darunavir, increasing the levels of 
darunavir in the blood. This allows effective treatment while avoiding a higher dose of darunavir. 
Darunavir Mylan, taken in combination with other HIV medicines, reduces the amount of HIV in the 
blood and keeps it at a low level. Darunavir Mylan does not cure HIV infection or AIDS, but HIV 
treatment may hold off the damage to the immune system and the development of infections and 
diseases associated with AIDS. 
How has Darunavir Mylan been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the approved use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Prezista, and do not need to be repeated for Darunavir Mylan.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Darunavir Mylan. The company 
also carried out studies that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two medicines 
are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body and are 
therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Darunavir Mylan? 
Because Darunavir Mylan is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Darunavir Mylan approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Darunavir Mylan has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to Prezista. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Prezista, the benefit outweighs 
the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Darunavir Mylan be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Darunavir Mylan? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Darunavir Mylan have been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet.   
Darunavir Mylan  
EMA/751579/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Darunavir Mylan 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Darunavir Mylan on 04 January 2017. 
The full EPAR for Darunavir Mylan can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Darunavir Mylan, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2017. 
Darunavir Mylan  
EMA/751579/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
