EMA/751782/2017 
EMEA/H/C/004273 
EPAR summary for the public 
Darunavir Krka 
darunavir 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Darunavir Krka. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Darunavir Krka. 
For practical information about using Darunavir Krka, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Darunavir Krka and what is it used for? 
Darunavir Krka is an antiviral medicine used with other HIV medicines to treat patients with human 
immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), a virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome 
(AIDS). Darunavir Krka may be given to adults or children from 3 years of age and weighing at least 
15 kg. 
Darunavir Krka contains the active substance darunavir. 
Darunavir Krka is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Darunavir Krka contains the same active 
substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European 
Union (EU) called Prezista. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer 
document here. 
How is Darunavir Krka used? 
Darunavir Krka can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a 
healthcare professional who has experience in the management of HIV. 
Darunavir Krka is available as tablets. The medicine is always taken with low-dose ritonavir and with 
other HIV medicines, and should be taken with food.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Darunavir Krka work? 
The active substance in Darunavir Krka, darunavir, is a protease inhibitor. It blocks protease, an 
enzyme involved in the reproduction of HIV. When the enzyme is blocked, the virus does not reproduce 
normally, slowing down its multiplication in the body. Darunavir Krka is always given with ritonavir. 
Ritonavir reduces the breakdown of darunavir, increasing the levels of darunavir in the blood. This 
allows effective treatment while avoiding a higher dose of darunavir. 
Darunavir Krka, taken in combination with other HIV medicines, reduces the amount of HIV in the 
blood and keeps it at a low level. Darunavir Krka does not cure HIV infection or AIDS, but HIV 
treatment may hold off the damage to the immune system and the development of infections and 
diseases associated with AIDS. 
How has Darunavir Krka been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the approved use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Prezista, and do not need to be repeated for Darunavir Krka.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Darunavir Krka. The company 
also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two medicines 
are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body and are 
therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Darunavir Krka? 
Because Darunavir Krka is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Darunavir Krka approved? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Darunavir Krka 
has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Prezista. Therefore, the 
Agency’s view was that, as for Prezista, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Agency 
recommended that Darunavir Krka be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Darunavir Krka? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Darunavir Krka have been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
Other information about Darunavir Krka 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Darunavir Krka on 26 January 2018. 
The full EPAR for Darunavir Krka can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Darunavir Krka, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
Darunavir Krka  
EMA/751782/2017  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2018. 
Darunavir Krka  
EMA/751782/2017  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
