ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Darunavir Krka 400 mg film-coated tablets
Darunavir Krka 800 mg film-coated tablets
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Darunavir Krka 400 mg film-coated tablets
Each film-coated tablet contains 400 mg darunavir.
Darunavir Krka 800 mg film-coated tablets
Each film-coated tablet contains 800 mg darunavir.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Film-coated tablet (tablet)
Darunavir Krka 400 mg film-coated tablets
Yellowish brown, oval, biconvex film-coated tablets, engraved with a mark S1 on one side. Tablet 
dimension: 17 x 8.5 mm.
Darunavir Krka 800 mg film-coated tablets
Brownish red, oval, biconvex film-coated tablets, engraved with a mark S3 on one side. Tablet 
dimension: 20 x 10 mm.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Darunavir Krka, co-administered with low dose ritonavir is indicated in combination with other 
antiretroviral medicinal products for the treatment of patients with human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV-1) infection.
Darunavir Krka 400 mg and 800 mg tablets may be used to provide suitable dose regimens for the 
treatment of HIV-1 infection in adult and paediatric patients from the age of 3 years and at least 40 kg 
body weight who are:
-
-
antiretroviral therapy (ART)-naïve (see section 4.2).
ART-experienced with no darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs) and who 
have plasma HIV-1 RNA < 100 000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count ≥ 100 cells x 106/l. In 
deciding to initiate treatment with darunavir in such ART-experienced patients, genotypic 
testing should guide the use of darunavir (see sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1).
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Therapy should be initiated by a healthcare provider experienced in the management of HIV infection. 
After therapy with darunavir has been initiated, patients should be advised not to alter the dose, dose 
form or discontinue therapy without discussing with their healthcare provider.
2
The interaction profile of darunavir depends on whether ritonavir is used as pharmacokinetic enhancer. 
Darunavir may therefore have different contraindications and recommendations for concomitant 
medicinal products depending on whether the compound is boosted with ritonavir (see sections 4.3, 
4.4 and 4.5).
Posology
Darunavir must always be given orally with low dose ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic enhancer and in 
combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products. The Summary of Product Characteristics of 
ritonavir as appropriate, must therefore be consulted prior to initiation of therapy with darunavir. 
This medicinal product is only available as film coated tablets and is thus not suitable for patients who 
are unable to swallow intact tablets, for example young children. For use in these patients, more 
suitable formulations containing darunavir should be checked for their availability.
ART-naïve adult patients
The recommended dose regimen is 800 mg once daily taken with ritonavir 100 mg once daily taken 
with food. Darunavir Krka 400 mg and 800 mg tablets can be used to construct the once daily 800 mg 
regimen.
ART-experienced adult patients
The recommended dose regimens are as follows:
-
In ART-experienced patients with no darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs)* 
and who have plasma HIV-1 RNA < 100 000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count 
≥ 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.1) a regimen of 800 mg once daily with ritonavir 100 mg once 
daily taken with food may be used. Darunavir Krka 400 mg and 800 mg tablets can be used to 
construct the once daily 800 mg regimen.
In all other ART-experienced patients or if HIV-1 genotype testing is not available, the 
recommended dose regimen is 600 mg twice daily taken with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily taken 
with food. See the Summary of Product Characteristics for Darunavir Krka 600 mg tablets.
-
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V
ART-naïve paediatric patients (3 to 17 years of age and weighing at least 40 kg)
The recommended dose regimen is 800 mg once daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily taken with 
food. 
ART-experienced paediatric patients (3 to 17 years of age and weighing at least 40 kg)
The recommended dose regimens are as follows:
-
In ART-experienced patients without DRV-RAMs* and who have plasma HIV-
1 RNA < 100 000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count ≥ 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.1) a 
regimen of 800 mg once daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily taken with food may be used. 
Darunavir Krka 400 mg and 800 mg tablets can be used to construct the once daily 800 mg 
regimen. The dose of other pharmacokinetic enhancer to be used with darunavir in children less 
than 12 years of age has not been established.
In all other ART-experienced patients or if HIV-1 genotype testing is not available, the 
recommended dose regimen is described in the Summary of Product Characteristics for 
Darunavir Krka 600 mg tablets.
-
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V
Advice on missed doses
If a once daily dose of darunavir and/or ritonavir is missed within 12 hours of the time it is usually 
taken, patients should be instructed to take the prescribed dose of darunavir and ritonavir with food as 
soon as possible. If this is noticed later than 12 hours after the time it is usually taken, the missed dose 
should not be taken and the patient should resume the usual dosing schedule.
This guidance is based on the half-life of darunavir in the presence of ritonavir and the recommended 
dosing interval of approximately 24 hours.
3
If a patient vomits within 4 hours of taking the medicinal product, another dose of darunavir with 
ritonavir should be taken with food as soon as possible. If a patient vomits more than 4 hours after 
taking the medicinal product, the patient does not need to take another dose of darunavir with ritonavir 
until the next regularly scheduled time.
Special populations
Elderly
Limited information is available in this population, and therefore, darunavir should be used with 
caution in this age group (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).
Hepatic impairment
Darunavir is metabolised by the hepatic system. No dose adjustment is recommended in patients with 
mild (Child-Pugh Class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment, however, darunavir 
should be used with caution in these patients. No pharmacokinetic data are available in patients with 
severe hepatic impairment. Severe hepatic impairment could result in an increase of darunavir 
exposure and a worsening of its safety profile. Therefore, darunavir must not be used in patients with 
severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.2).
Renal impairment
No dose adjustment is required for darunavir/ritonavir in patients with renal impairment (see sections 
4.4 and 5.2).
Paediatric population
Darunavir Krka should not be used in children
-
-
below 3 years of age, because of safety concerns (see sections 4.4 and 5.3), or,
less than 15 kg body weight, as the dose for this population has not been established in a 
sufficient number of patients (see section 5.1).
For dose recommendations in children see the Summary of Product Characteristics for Darunavir Krka
600 mg tablets.
Pregnancy and postpartum
No dose adjustment is required for darunavir/ritonavir during pregnancy and postpartum. 
Darunavir/ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential 
risk (see sections 4.4, 4.6 and 5.2).
Treatment with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg during pregnancy results in low darunavir exposure 
(see sections 4.4 and 5.2). Therefore, therapy with darunavir/cobicistat should not be initiated during 
pregnancy, and women who become pregnant during therapy with darunavir/cobicistat should be 
switched to an alternative regimen (see sections 4.4 and 4.6). Darunavir/ritonavir may be considered 
as an alternative.
Method of administration
Patients should be instructed to take darunavir with low dose ritonavir within 30 minutes after 
completion of a meal. The type of food does not affect the exposure to darunavir (see sections 4.4, 4.5 
and 5.2).
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Patients with severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment.
Concomitant treatment with any of the following medicinal products given the expected decrease in 
4
plasma concentrations of darunavir, ritonavir and cobicistat and the potential for loss of therapeutic 
effect (see sections 4.4 and 4.5).
Applicable to darunavir boosted with either ritonavir or cobicistat: 


The combination product lopinavir/ritonavir (see section 4.5).
The strong CYP3A inducers rifampicin and herbal preparations containing St John’s wort 
(Hypericum perforatum). Co-administration is expected to reduce plasma concentrations of
darunavir, ritonavir and cobicistat, which could lead to loss of therapeutic effect and possible 
development of resistance (see sections 4.4 and 4.5).
Applicable to darunavir boosted with cobicistat, not when boosted with ritonavir:

Darunavir boosted with cobicistat is more sensitive for CYP3A induction than darunavir 
boosted with ritonavir. Concomitant use with strong CYP3A inducers is contraindicated, since 
these may reduce the exposure to cobicistat and darunavir leading to loss of therapeutic effect.
Strong CYP3A inducers include e.g. carbamazepine, phenobarbital and phenytoin (see sections 
4.4 and 4.5).
Darunavir boosted with either ritonavir or cobicistat inhibits the elimination of active substances that 
are highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance, which results in increased exposure to the co-
administered medicinal product. Therefore, concomitant treatment with such medicinal products for 
which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening events is 
contraindicated (applies to darunavir boosted with either ritonavir or cobicistat). These active 
substances include e.g.:
alfuzosin 

amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine, quinidine, ranolazine

astemizole, terfenadine 

colchicine when used in patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment (see section 4.5)

ergot derivatives (e.g. dihydroergotamine, ergometrine, ergotamine, methylergonovine)

elbasvir/grazoprevir 

cisapride 

dapoxetine

domperidone

naloxegol

lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapine, sertindole (see section 4.5)

triazolam, midazolam administered orally (for caution on parenterally administered midazolam, 

see section 4.5)
sildenafil - when used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, avanafil 
simvastatin, lovastatin and lomitapide (see section 4.5)
ticagrelor (see section 4.5).



4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Regular assessment of virological response is advised. In the setting of lack or loss of virological 
response, resistance testing should be performed.
Darunavir must always be given orally with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic 
enhancer and in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products (see section 5.2). The 
Summary of Product Characteristics of cobicistat or ritonavir as appropriate, must therefore be 
consulted prior to initiation of therapy with darunavir.
Increasing the dose of ritonavir from that recommended in section 4.2 did not significantly affect 
darunavir concentrations. It is not recommended to alter the dose of cobicistat or ritonavir.
Darunavir binds predominantly to 1-acid glycoprotein. This protein binding is concentration-
dependent indicative for saturation of binding. Therefore, protein displacement of medicinal products 
highly bound to 1-acid glycoprotein cannot be ruled out (see section 4.5).
5
ART-experienced patients – once daily dosing
Darunavir Krka used in combination with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir once daily in ART-
experienced patients should not be used in patients with one or more darunavir resistance associated 
mutations (DRV-RAMs) or HIV-1 RNA ≥ 100 000 copies/ml or CD4+ cell count < 100 cells x 106/L
(see section 4.2). Combinations with optimised background regimen (OBRs) other than ≥ 2 NRTIs 
have not been studied in this population. Limited data are available in patients with HIV-1 clades other 
than B (see section 5.1).
Paediatric population
Darunavir is not recommended for use in paediatric patients below 3 years of age or less than 15 kg 
body weight (see sections 4.2 and 5.3).
Pregnancy
Darunavir/ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential
risk.
Caution should be used in pregnant women with concomitant medicinal products which may further 
decrease darunavir exposure (see sections 4.5 and 5.2).
Treatment with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg once daily during the second and third trimester has 
been shown to result in low darunavir exposure, with a reduction of around 90% in Cmin levels (see 
section 5.2). Cobicistat levels decrease and may not provide sufficient boosting. The substantial 
reduction in darunavir exposure may result in virological failure and an increased risk of mother to 
child transmission of HIV infection. Therefore, therapy with darunavir/cobicistat should not be 
initiated during pregnancy, and women who become pregnant during therapy with darunavir/cobicistat 
should be switched to an alternative regimen (see sections 4.2 and 4.6). Darunavir given with low dose 
ritonavir may be considered as an alternative.
Elderly
As limited information is available on the use of darunavir in patients aged 65 and over, caution 
should be exercised in the administration of darunavir in elderly patients, reflecting the greater
frequency of decreased hepatic function and of concomitant disease or other therapy (see sections 4.2 
and 5.2).
Severe skin reactions
During the darunavir/ritonavir clinical development program (N=3 063), severe skin reactions, which 
may be accompanied with fever and/or elevations of transaminases, have been reported in 0.4% of 
patients. DRESS (Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms) and Stevens-Johnson 
Syndrome has been rarely (< 0.1%) reported, and during post-marketing experience toxic epidermal 
necrolysis and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis have been reported. Darunavir should be 
discontinued immediately if signs or symptoms of severe skin reactions develop. These can include, 
but are not limited to, severe rash or rash accompanied by fever, general malaise, fatigue, muscle or 
joint aches, blisters, oral lesions, conjunctivitis, hepatitis and/or eosinophilia.
Rash occurred more commonly in treatment-experienced patients receiving regimens containing 
darunavir/ritonavir + raltegravir compared to patients receiving darunavir/ritonavir without raltegravir 
or raltegravir without darunavir (see section 4.8).
Darunavir contains a sulphonamide moiety. Darunavir should be used with caution in patients with a 
known sulphonamide allergy.
6
Hepatotoxicity
Drug-induced hepatitis (e.g. acute hepatitis, cytolytic hepatitis) has been reported with darunavir. 
During the darunavir/ritonavir clinical development program (N=3 063), hepatitis was reported in 
0.5% of patients receiving combination antiretroviral therapy with darunavir/ritonavir. Patients with
pre-existing liver dysfunction, including chronic active hepatitis B or C, have an increased risk for 
liver function abnormalities including severe and potentially fatal hepatic adverse reactions. In case of 
concomitant antiviral therapy for hepatitis B or C, please refer to the relevant product information for 
these medicinal products.
Appropriate laboratory testing should be conducted prior to initiating therapy with darunavir used in 
combination with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir and patients should be monitored during treatment.
Increased aspartate aminotransferase/alanine aminotransferase (AST/ALT) monitoring should be 
considered in patients with underlying chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, or in patients who have pre-
treatment elevations of transaminases, especially during the first several months of darunavir used in 
combination with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir treatment.
If there is evidence of new or worsening liver dysfunction (including clinically significant elevation of 
liver enzymes and/or symptoms such as fatigue, anorexia, nausea, jaundice, dark urine, liver 
tenderness, hepatomegaly) in patients using darunavir used in combination with cobicistat or low dose 
ritonavir, interruption or discontinuation of treatment should be considered promptly.
Patients with coexisting conditions
Hepatic impairment
The safety and efficacy of darunavir have not been established in patients with severe underlying liver 
disorders and darunavir is therefore contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Due to an increase in the unbound darunavir plasma concentrations, darunavir should be used with 
caution in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (see sections 4.2, 4.3 and 5.2).
Renal impairment
No special precautions or dose adjustments for darunavir/ritonavir are required in patients with renal 
impairment. As darunavir and ritonavir are highly bound to plasma proteins, it is unlikely that they 
will be significantly removed by haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis. Therefore, no special 
precautions or dose adjustments are required in these patients (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). Cobicistat has 
not been studied in patients receiving dialysis, therefore, no recommendation can be made for the use 
of darunavir/cobicistat in these patients (see section 4.2).
Cobicistat decreases the estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of 
creatinine. This should be taken into consideration if darunavir with cobicistat is administered to 
patients in whom the estimated creatinine clearance is used to adjust doses of co-administered 
medicinal products (see section 4.2 and cobicistat SmPC).
There are currently inadequate data to determine whether co-administration of tenofovir disoproxil and 
cobicistat is associated with a greater risk of renal adverse reactions compared with regimens that 
include tenofovir disoproxil without cobicistat.
Haemophiliac patients
There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin haematomas and 
haemarthrosis in patients with haemophilia type A and B treated with PIs. In some patients additional 
factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with PIs was continued or 
reintroduced if treatment had been discontinued. A causal relationship has been suggested, although 
the mechanism of action has not been elucidated. Haemophiliac patients should, therefore, be made 
aware of the possibility of increased bleeding.
Weight and metabolic parameters
An increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose may occur during antiretroviral 
7
therapy. Such changes may in part be linked to disease control and life style. For lipids, there is in 
some cases evidence for a treatment effect, while for weight gain there is no strong evidence relating 
this to any particular treatment. For monitoring of blood lipids and glucose reference is made to 
established HIV treatment guidelines. Lipid disorders should be managed as clinically appropriate. 
Osteonecrosis
Although the aetiology is considered to be multifactorial (including corticosteroid use, alcohol 
consumption, severe immunosuppression, higher body mass index), cases of osteonecrosis have been 
reported particularly in patients with advanced HIV disease and/or long-term exposure to combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART). Patients should be advised to seek medical advice if they experience 
joint aches and pain, joint stiffness or difficulty in movement.
Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome
In HIV infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of combination
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic
pathogens may arise and cause serious clinical conditions, or aggravation of symptoms. Typically,
such reactions have been observed within the first weeks or months of initiation of CART. Relevant
examples are cytomegalovirus retinitis, generalised and/or focal mycobacterial infections and
pneumonia caused by Pneumocystis jirovecii (formerly known as Pneumocystis carinii). Any
inflammatory symptoms should be evaluated and treatment instituted when necessary. In addition,
reactivation of herpes simplex and herpes zoster has been observed in clinical studies with darunavir
co-administered with low dose ritonavir.
Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have also been reported to 
occur in the setting of immune reactivation; however, the reported time to onset is more variable and 
these events can occur many months after initiation of treatment (see section 4.8).
Interactions with medicinal products
Several of the interaction studies have been performed with darunavir at lower than recommended 
doses. The effects on co-administered medicinal products may thus be underestimated and clinical 
monitoring of safety may be indicated. For full information on interactions with other medicinal 
products see section 4.5.
Pharmacokinetic enhancer and concomitant medicinal products
Darunavir has different interaction profiles depending on whether the compound is boosted with 
ritonavir or cobicistat:

Darunavir boosted with cobicistat is more sensitive for CYP3A induction: concomitant use of
darunavir/cobicistat and strong CYP3A inducers is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3),
and concomitant use with weak to moderate CYP3A inducers is not recommended (see section
4.5). Concomitant use of darunavir/ritonavir and darunavir/cobicistat with lopinavir/ritonavir,
rifampicin and herbal products containing St John’s wort, Hypericum perforatum, is
contraindicated (see section 4.5).
Unlike ritonavir, cobicistat does not have inducing effects on enzymes or transport proteins (see
section 4.5). If switching the pharmacoenhancer from ritonavir to cobicistat, caution is required
during the first two weeks of treatment with darunavir/cobicistat, particularly if doses of any
concomitantly administered medicinal products have been titrated or adjusted during use of
ritonavir as a pharmacoenhancer. A dose reduction of the co-administered medicinal product
may be needed in these cases.

Efavirenz in combination with boosted darunavir may result in sub-optimal darunavir Cmin. If 
efavirenz is to be used in combination with darunavir, the darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily 
regimen should be used. See the Summary of Product Characteristics for Darunavir Krka 600 mg 
tablets (see section 4.5).
8
Life-threatening and fatal drug interactions have been reported in patients treated with colchicine and
strong inhibitors of CYP3A and P-glycoprotein (P-gp; see sections 4.3 and 4.5).
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
The interaction profile of darunavir may differ depending on whether ritonavir or cobicistat is used as 
pharmacoenhancer. The recommendations given for concomitant use of darunavir and other medicinal 
products may therefore differ depending on whether darunavir is boosted with ritonavir or cobicistat 
(see sections 4.3 and 4.4), and caution is also required during the first time of treatment if switching 
the pharmacoenhancer from ritonavir to cobicistat (see section 4.4).
Medicinal products that affect darunavir exposure (ritonavir as pharmacoenhancer)
Darunavir and ritonavir are metabolised by CYP3A. Medicinal products that induce CYP3A activity 
would be expected to increase the clearance of darunavir and ritonavir, resulting in lowered plasma 
concentrations of these compounds and consequently that of darunavir, leading to loss of therapeutic 
effect and possible development of resistance (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). CYP3A inducers that are 
contraindicated include rifampicin, St John’s wort and lopinavir.
Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir with other medicinal products that inhibit CYP3A may 
decrease the clearance of darunavir and ritonavir, which may result in increased plasma concentrations 
of darunavir and ritonavir. Co-administration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is not recommended and 
caution is warranted, these interactions are described in the interaction table below (e.g. indinavir, 
azole antifungals like clotrimazole).
Medicinal products that affect darunavir exposure (cobicistat as pharmacoenhancer)
Darunavir and cobicistat are metabolised by CYP3A, and co-administration with CYP3A inducers 
may therefore result in subtherapeutic plasma exposure to darunavir. Darunavir boosted with 
cobicistat is more sensitive to CYP3A induction than ritonavir-boosted darunavir: co-administration of 
darunavir/cobicistat with medicinal products that are strong inducers of CYP3A (e.g. St John’s wort, 
rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, and phenytoin) is contraindicated (see section 4.3). Co-
administration of darunavir/cobicistat with weak to moderate CYP3A inducers (e.g. efavirenz, 
etravirine, nevirapine, fluticasone, and bosentan) is not recommended (see interaction table below).
For co-administration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, the same recommendations apply independent 
of whether darunavir is boosted with ritonavir or with cobicistat (see section above).
Medicinal products that may be affected by darunavir boosted with ritonavir
Darunavir and ritonavir are inhibitors of CYP3A, CYP2D6 and P-gp. Co-administration of 
darunavir/ritonavir with medicinal products primarily metabolised by CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 or 
transported by P-gp may result in increased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which 
could increase or prolong their therapeutic effect and adverse reactions.
Darunavir co-administered with low dose ritonavir must not be combined with medicinal products that 
are highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which increased systemic exposure is associated 
with serious and/or life-threatening events (narrow therapeutic index) (see section 4.3).
Co-administration of boosted darunavir with drugs that have active metabolite(s) formed by CYP3A 
may result in reduced plasma concentrations of these active metabolite(s), potentially leading to loss 
of their therapeutic effect (see the Interaction table below).
The overall pharmacokinetic enhancement effect by ritonavir was an approximate 14-fold increase in 
the systemic exposure of darunavir when a single dose of 600 mg darunavir was given orally in 
combination with ritonavir at 100 mg twice daily. Therefore, darunavir must only be used in 
combination with a pharmacokinetic enhancer (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).
9
A clinical study utilising a cocktail of medicinal products that are metabolised by cytochromes 
CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 demonstrated an increase in CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 activity and 
inhibition of CYP2D6 activity in the presence of darunavir/ritonavir, which may be attributed to the 
presence of low dose ritonavir. Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir with medicinal products 
which are primarily metabolised by CYP2D6 (such as flecainide, propafenone, metoprolol) may result 
in increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal products, which could increase or prolong their 
therapeutic effect and adverse reactions. Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir with medicinal 
products primarily metabolised by CYP2C9 (such as warfarin) and CYP2C19 (such as methadone) 
may result in decreased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which could decrease or 
shorten their therapeutic effect.
Although the effect on CYP2C8 has only been studied in vitro, co-administration of darunavir and 
ritonavir and medicinal products primarily metabolised by CYP2C8 (such as paclitaxel, rosiglitazone, 
repaglinide) may result in decreased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which could 
decrease or shorten their therapeutic effect.
Ritonavir inhibits the transporters P-glycoprotein, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3, and co-administration 
with substrates of these transporters can result in increased plasma concentrations of these compounds 
(e.g. dabigatran etexilate, digoxin, statins and bosentan; see the Interaction table below).
Medicinal products that may be affected by darunavir boosted with cobicistat
The recommendations for darunavir boosted with ritonavir are similar to the recommendations for 
darunavir boosted with cobicistat with regard to substrates of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, P-glycoprotein, 
OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 (see contraindications and recommendations presented in the section 
above). Cobicistat 150 mg given with darunavir 800 mg once daily enhances darunavir 
pharmacokinetic parameters in a comparable way to ritonavir (see section 5.2).
Unlike ritonavir, cobicistat does not induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19 or 
UGT1A1. For further information on cobicistat, consult the cobicistat Summary of Product 
Characteristics.
Interaction table
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
Several of the interaction studies (indicated by # in the table below) have been performed at lower than 
recommended doses of darunavir or with a different dosing regimen (see section 4.2 Posology). The 
effects on co-administered medicinal products may thus be underestimated and clinical monitoring o 
safety may be indicated.
The interaction profile of darunavir depends on whether ritonavir or cobicistat is used as 
pharmacokinetic enhancer. Darunavir may therefore have different recommendations for concomitant 
medicinal products depending on whether the compound is boosted with ritonavir or cobicistat. No
interaction studies presented in the table have been performed with darunavir boosted with cobicistat. 
The same recommendations apply, unless specifically indicated. For further information on cobicistat, 
consult the cobicistat Summary of Product Characteristics.
Interactions between darunavir/ritonavir and antiretroviral and non-antiretroviral medicinal products 
are listed in the table below. The direction of the arrow for each pharmacokinetic parameter is based 
on the 90% confidence interval of the geometric mean ratio being within (↔), below (↓) or above (↑) 
the 80-125% range (not determined as “ND”).
In the table below the specific pharmacokinetic enhancer is specified when recommendations differ. 
When the recommendation is the same for darunavir when co-administered with a low dose ritonavir 
or cobicistat, the term “boosted darunavir” is used.
10
The below list of examples of drug-drug interactions is not comprehensive and therefore the label of 
each drug that is co-administered with darunavir should be consulted for information related to the 
route of metabolism, interaction pathways, potential risks, and specific actions to be taken with 
regards to co-administration.
Table 1. Interactions and dose recommendations with medicinal products
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
HIV ANTIRETROVIRALS 
Interaction 
Geometric mean change (%) 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
Integrase strand transfer inhibitors
Dolutegravir
Raltegravir
dolutegravir AUC ↓ 22%
dolutegravir C24h ↓38%
dolutegravir Cmax ↓ 11%
darunavir ↔*
* Using cross-study comparisons to historical 
pharmacokinetic data
Some clinical studies suggest raltegravir 
may cause a modest decrease in darunavir 
plasma concentrations.
Nucleo(s/t)ide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)
Didanosine
400 mg once daily
didanosine AUC ↓ 9%
didanosine Cmin ND
didanosine Cmax ↓ 16%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↔
darunavir Cmax ↔
Tenofovir disoproxil
245 mg once daily
tenofovir AUC ↑ 22%
tenofovir Cmin ↑ 37%
tenofovir Cmax ↑ 24%
#darunavir AUC ↑ 21%
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 24%
#darunavir Cmax ↑ 16%
(↑ tenofovir from effect on MDR-1 
transport in the renal tubules)
Emtricitabine/tenofovir 
alafenamide 
Tenofovir alafenamide ↔
Tenofovir ↑
Abacavir
Emtricitabine
Lamivudine
Stavudine
Zidovudine
Not studied. Based on the different 
elimination pathways of the other NRTIs 
zidovudine, emtricitabine, stavudine, 
lamivudine, that are primarily renally 
excreted, and abacavir for which 
metabolism is not mediated by CYP450, 
no interactions are expected for these 
medicinal compounds and boosted 
darunavir.
11
Boosted darunavir and dolutegravir 
can be used without dose adjustment.
At present the effect of raltegravir on 
darunavir plasma concentrations does 
not appear to be clinically relevant. 
Boosted darunavir and raltegravir 
can be used without dose 
adjustments.
Boosted darunavir and didanosine 
can be used without dose 
adjustments.
Didanosine is to be administered on 
an empty stomach, thus it should be 
administered 1 hour before or 
2 hours after boosted darunavir given 
with food.
Monitoring of renal function may be 
indicated when boosted darunavir is 
given in combination with tenofovir
disoproxil, particularly in patients 
with underlying systemic or renal 
disease, or in patients taking 
nephrotoxic agents.
Darunavir co-administered with 
cobicistat lowers the creatinine 
clearance. Refer to section 4.4 if 
creatinine clearance is used for dose 
adjustment of tenofovir disoproxil.
The recommended dose of 
emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide 
is 200/10 mg once daily when used 
with boosted darunavir. 
Boosted darunavir can be used with 
these NRTIs without dose 
adjustment.
Darunavir co-administered with 
cobicistat lowers the creatinine 
clearance. Refer to section 4.4 if 
creatinine clearance is used for dose 
adjustment of emtricitabine or 
lamivudine.
Non-nucleo(s/t)ide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) 
Efavirenz
600 mg once daily
efavirenz AUC ↑ 21%
efavirenz Cmin ↑ 17%
efavirenz Cmax ↑ 15%
#darunavir AUC ↓ 13%
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 31%
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 15%
(↑ efavirenz from CYP3A inhibition)
(↓ darunavir from CYP3A induction)
Clinical monitoring for central 
nervous system toxicity associated 
with increased exposure to efavirenz 
may be indicated when darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir 
is given in combination with 
efavirenz.
Efavirenz in combination with 
darunavir /ritonavir 800/100 mg once 
daily may result in sub-optimal 
darunavir Cmin. If efavirenz is to be 
used in combination with darunavir 
/ritonavir, the darunavir/ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice daily regimen 
should be used (see section 4.4).
Co-administration with darunavir co-
administered with cobicistat is not 
recommended (see section 4.4).
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and etravirine 200 mg 
twice daily can be used without dose 
adjustments.
Co-administration with darunavir co-
administered with cobicistat is not 
recommended (see section 4.4).
etravirine AUC ↓ 37%
etravirine Cmin ↓ 49%
etravirine Cmax ↓ 32%
darunavir AUC ↑ 15%
darunavir Cmin ↔
darunavir Cmax ↔
Etravirine
100 mg twice daily
Nevirapine
200 mg twice daily
Rilpivirine
150 mg once daily
HIV Protease inhibitors (PIs) - without additional co-administration of low dose ritonavir† 
Atazanavir
300 mg once daily
nevirapine AUC ↑ 27%
nevirapine Cmin ↑ 47%
nevirapine Cmax ↑ 18%
#darunavir: concentrations were consistent 
with historical data
(↑ nevirapine from CYP3A inhibition)
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and nevirapine can be 
used without dose adjustments.
Co-administration with darunavir co-
administered with cobicistat is not 
recommended (see section 4.4).
rilpivirine AUC ↑ 130%
rilpivirine Cmin ↑ 178%
rilpivirine Cmax ↑ 79%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↓ 11%
darunavir Cmax ↔
Boosted darunavir and rilpivirine can 
be used without dose adjustments.
atazanavir AUC ↔
atazanavir Cmin ↑ 52%
atazanavir Cmax ↓ 11%
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
Atazanavir: comparison of 
atazanavir/ritonavir 300/100 mg once daily 
vs. atazanavir 300 mg once daily in 
combination with darunavir/ritonavir 
400/100 mg twice daily.
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice daily 
vs. darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice 
daily in combination with atazanavir 
300 mg once daily.
indinavir AUC ↑ 23%
indinavir Cmin ↑ 125%
indinavir Cmax ↔
#darunavir AUC ↑ 24%
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 44%
12
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and atazanavir can be 
used without dose adjustments.
Darunavir co-administered with 
cobicistat should not be used in 
combination with another 
antiretroviral agent that requires 
pharmacoenhancement by means of 
co-administration with an inhibitor of 
CYP3A4 (see section 4.5).
When used in combination with 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir, dose adjustment of 
indinavir from 800 mg twice daily to 
600 mg twice daily may be 
Indinavir
800 mg twice daily
Saquinavir
1 000 mg twice daily
warranted in case of intolerance.
Darunavir co-administered with 
cobicistat should not be used in 
combination with another 
antiretroviral agent that requires 
pharmacoenhancement by means of 
co-administration with an inhibitor of 
CYP3A4 (see section 4.5).
It is not recommended to combine 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir with saquinavir.
Darunavir co-administered with 
cobicistat should not be used in 
combination with another 
antiretroviral agent that requires 
pharmacoenhancement by means of 
co-administration with an inhibitor of 
CYP3A4 (see section 4.5).
#darunavir Cmax ↑ 11%
Indinavir: comparison of 
indinavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg twice daily 
vs. indinavir/darunavir/ritonavir 
800/400/100 mg twice daily.
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice daily 
vs. darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg in 
combination with indinavir 800 mg twice 
daily.
#darunavir AUC ↓ 26%
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 42%
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 17%
saquinavir AUC ↓ 6%
saquinavir Cmin ↓ 18%
saquinavir Cmax ↓ 6%
Saquinavir: comparison of 
saquinavir/ritonavir 1 000/100 mg twice 
daily vs. saquinavir/darunavir/ritonavir 
1 000/400/100 mg twice daily
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice daily 
vs. darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg in 
combination with saquinavir 1 000 mg 
twice daily.
HIV Protease inhibitors (PIs) - with co-administration of low dose ritonavir† 
Lopinavir/ritonavir
400/100 mg twice daily
lopinavir AUC ↑ 9%
lopinavir Cmin ↑ 23%
lopinavir Cmax ↓ 2%
darunavir AUC ↓ 38%‡
darunavir Cmin ↓ 51%‡
darunavir Cmax ↓ 21%‡
lopinavir AUC ↔
lopinavir Cmin ↑ 13%
lopinavir Cmax ↑ 11%
darunavir AUC ↓ 41%
darunavir Cmin ↓ 55%
darunavir Cmax ↓ 21%
‡ based upon non dose normalised values
Due to a decrease in the exposure 
(AUC) of darunavir by 40%, 
appropriate doses of the combination 
have not been established. Hence, 
concomitant use of boosted darunavir 
and the combination product 
lopinavir/ritonavir is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3).
Lopinavir/ritonavir
533/133.3 mg twice daily
CCR5 ANTAGONIST 
Maraviroc
150 mg twice daily
maraviroc AUC ↑ 305%
maraviroc Cmin ND
maraviroc Cmax ↑ 129%
darunavir, ritonavir concentrations were 
consistent with historical data
The maraviroc dose should be 
150 mg twice daily when co-
administered with boosted darunavir.
α1-ADRENORECEPTOR ANTAGONIST 
Alfuzosin
Based on theoretical considerations 
darunavir is expected to increase alfuzosin 
plasma concentrations.
(CYP3A inhibition)
Co-administration of boosted 
darunavir and alfuzosin is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
ANAESTHETIC 
Alfentanil
Not studied. The metabolism of alfentanil 
is mediated via CYP3A, and may as such 
be inhibited by boosted darunavir.
The concomitant use with boosted 
darunavir may require to lower the 
dose of alfentanil and requires 
monitoring for risks of prolonged or 
delayed respiratory depression.
ANTIANGINA/ANTIARRHYTHMIC 
Disopyramide
I 
Not studied. Boosted darunavir is expected  Caution is warranted and therapeutic 
I 
13
Flecainide
Lidocaine (systemic)
Mexiletine
Propafenone
Amiodarone
Bepridil
Dronedarone
Ivabradine
Quinidine
Ranolazine
Digoxin
0.4 mg single dose
ANTIBIOTIC 
Clarithromycin
500 mg twice daily
to increase these antiarrhythmic plasma 
concentrations.
(CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 inhibition)
digoxin AUC ↑ 61%
digoxin Cmin ND
digoxin Cmax ↑ 29%
(↑ digoxin from probable inhibition of P-
gp)
clarithromycin AUC ↑ 57%
clarithromycin Cmin ↑ 174%
clarithromycin Cmax ↑ 26%
#darunavir AUC ↓ 13%
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 1%
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 17%
14-OH-clarithromycin concentrations were 
not detectable when combined with 
darunavir/ritonavir.
(↑ clarithromycin from CYP3A inhibition 
and possible P-gp inhibition)
ANTICOAGULANT/PLATELET AGGREGATION INHIBITOR
Apixaban
Rivaroxaban
Dabigatran etexilate
Edoxaban
Not studied. Co-administration of boosted 
darunavir with these anticoagulants may 
increase concentrations of the 
anticoagulant.
(CYP3A and/or P-gp inhibition)
dabigatran etexilate (150 mg):
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg single 
dose:
dabigatran AUC ↑ 72%
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 64%
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily:
dabigatran AUC ↑ 18%
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 22%
darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg single 
dose:
dabigatran AUC ↑ 164%
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 164%
darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg once 
daily:
dabigatran AUC ↑ 88%
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 99%
14
concentration monitoring, if 
available, is recommended for these 
antiarrhythmics when co-
administered with boosted darunavir.
Co-administration of boosted 
darunavir and amiodarone, bepridil, 
dronedarone, ivabradine, quinidine, 
or ranolazine is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).
Given that digoxin has a narrow 
therapeutic index, it is recommended 
that the lowest possible dose of 
digoxin should initially be prescribed 
in case digoxin is given to patients on 
boosted darunavir therapy. The 
digoxin dose should be carefully 
titrated to obtain the desired clinical 
effect while assessing the overall 
clinical state of the subject.
Caution should be exercised when 
clarithromycin is combined with 
boosted darunavir.
For patients with renal impairment 
the Summary of Product 
Characteristics for clarithromycin 
should be consulted for the 
recommended dose.
The use of boosted darunavir with a 
direct oral anticoagulant (DOAC) 
that is metabolised by CYP3A4 and 
transported by P-gp is not 
recommended as this may lead to an 
increased bleeding risk.
Darunavir/ritonavir:
Clinical monitoring and/or dose 
reduction of the DOAC should be 
considered when a DOAC 
transported by P-gp but not 
metabolised by CYP3A4, including 
dabigatran etexilate and edoxaban, is 
co-administered with darunavir/rtv.
Darunavir/cobicistat:
Clinical monitoring and dose 
reduction is required when a DOAC 
transported by P-gp but not 
metabolised by CYP3A4, including 
dabigatran etexilate and edoxaban, is 
co-administered with darunavir/cobi.
Ticagrelor
Clopidogrel
Warfarin
ANTICONVULSANTS 
Phenobarbital
Phenytoin
Carbamazepine
200 mg twice daily
Based on theoretical considerations, 
co-administration of boosted darunavir 
with ticagrelor may increase 
concentrations of ticagrelor (CYP3A 
and/or P-glycoprotein inhibition).
Not studied. Co-administration of 
clopidogrel with boosted darunavir is 
expected to decrease clopidogrel active 
metabolite plasma concentration, which 
may reduce the antiplatelet activity of 
clopidogrel
Not studied. Warfarin concentrations may 
be affected when co-administered with 
boosted darunavir.
Not studied. Phenobarbital and phenytoin 
are expected to decrease plasma 
concentrations of darunavir and its 
pharmacoenhancer.
(induction of CYP450 enzymes)
carbamazepine AUC ↑ 45%
carbamazepine Cmin ↑ 54%
carbamazepine Cmax ↑ 43%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↓ 15%
darunavir Cmax ↔
Clonazepam
ANTIDEPRESSANTS 
Paroxetine
20 mg once daily
Sertraline
50 mg once daily
Not studied. Co-administration of boosted 
darunavir with clonazepam may increase 
concentrations of clonazepam. (CYP3A 
inhibition)
paroxetine AUC ↓ 39%
paroxetine Cmin ↓ 37%
paroxetine Cmax ↓ 36%
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
sertraline AUC ↓ 49%
sertraline Cmin ↓ 49%
sertraline Cmax ↓ 44%
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 6%
15
Concomitant administration of 
boosted darunavir with ticagrelor is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Co-administration of clopidogrel 
with boosted darunavir is not 
recommended. Use of other 
antiplatelets not affected by CYP 
inhibition or induction (e.g. 
prasugrel) is recommended.
It is recommended that the 
international normalised ratio (INR) 
be monitored when warfarin is 
combined with boosted darunavir.
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir should not be used in 
combination with these medicines.
The use of these medicines with 
darunavir/cobicistat is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
No dose adjustment for darunavir 
/ritonavir is recommended. If there is 
a need to combine 
darunavir/ritonavir and 
carbamazepine, patients should be 
monitored for potential 
carbamazepine-related adverse 
events. Carbamazepine 
concentrations should be monitored 
and its dose should be titrated for 
adequate response. Based upon the 
findings, the carbamazepine dose 
may need to be reduced by 25% to 
50% in the presence of 
darunavir/ritonavir.
The use of carbamazepine with 
darunavir co-administered with 
cobicistat is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).
Clinical monitoring is recommended 
when co-administering boosted 
darunavir with clonazepam.
If antidepressants are co-
administered with boosted darunavir, 
the recommended approach is a dose 
titration of the antidepressant based 
on a clinical assessment of 
antidepressant response. In addition, 
patients on a stable dose of these 
antidepressants who start treatment 
with boosted darunavir should be 
monitored for antidepressant 
response.
Amitriptyline
Desipramine
Imipramine
Nortriptyline
Trazodone
ANTI-DIABETICS
Metformin 
#darunavir Cmax ↔
In contrast to these data with darunavir 
/ritonavir, darunavir/cobicistat may 
increase these antidepressant plasma 
concentrations (CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A 
inhibition).
Concomitant use of boosted darunavir and 
these antidepressants may increase 
concentrations of the antidepressant.
(CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A inhibition)
Clinical monitoring is recommended 
when co-administering boosted 
darunavir with these antidepressants 
and a dose adjustment of the 
antidepressant may be needed.
Not studied. Based on theoretical 
considerations darunavir co-administered 
with cobicistat is expected to increase 
metformin plasma concentrations.
(MATE1 inhibition)
ANTIEMETICS
Domperidone
Not studied. 
ANTIFUNGALS 
Voriconazole
Fluconazole
Isavuconazole
Itraconazole
Posaconazole
Clotrimazole
ANTIGOUT MEDICINES
Colchicine
Not studied. Ritonavir may decrease 
plasma concentrations of voriconazole.
(induction of CYP450 enzymes)
Concentrations of voriconazole may 
increase or decrease when co-administered 
with darunavir co-administered with 
cobicistat.
(inhibition of CYP450 enzymes)
Not studied. Boosted darunavir may 
increase antifungal plasma concentrations 
and posaconazole, isavuconazole, 
itraconazole or fluconazole may increase 
darunavir concentrations.
(CYP3A and/or P-gp inhibition)
Not studied. Concomitant systemic use of 
clotrimazole and boosted darunavir may 
increase plasma concentrations of 
darunavir and/or clotrimazole.
darunavir AUC24h ↑ 33% (based on 
population pharmacokinetic model)
Not studied. Concomitant use of colchicine 
and boosted darunavir may increase the 
exposure to colchicine.
(CYP3A and/ or P-gp inhibition)
Careful patient monitoring and dose 
adjustment of metformin is 
recommended in patients who are 
taking darunavir co-administered 
with cobicistat.
(not applicable for darunavir co-
administered with ritonavir)
Co-administration of domperidone 
with boosted darunavir is 
contraindicated. 
Voriconazole should not be 
combined with boosted darunavir 
unless an assessment of the 
benefit/risk ratio justifies the use of 
voriconazole.
Caution is warranted and clinical 
monitoring is recommended.
When co-administration is required 
the daily dose of itraconazole should 
not exceed 200 mg.
A reduction in colchicine dose or an 
interruption of colchicine treatment 
is recommended in patients with 
normal renal or hepatic function if 
treatment with boosted darunavir is 
required. For patients with renal or 
hepatic impairment colchicine with 
boosted darunavir is contraindicated
(see sections 4.3 and 4.4).
ANTIMALARIALS
Artemether/Lumefantrine
artemether AUC ↓ 16%
I 
The combination of boosted 
I 
16
80/480 mg, 6 doses at 0, 8, 
24, 36, 48, and 60 hours
ANTIMYCOBACTERIALS 
Rifampicin
Rifapentine
Rifabutin
150 mg once every other day
artemether Cmin ↔
artemether Cmax ↓ 18%
dihydroartemisinin AUC ↓ 18%
dihydroartemisinin Cmin ↔
dihydroartemisinin Cmax ↓ 18%
lumefantrine AUC ↑ 175%
lumefantrine Cmin ↑ 126%
lumefantrine Cmax ↑ 65%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↓ 13%
darunavir Cmax ↔
Not studied. Rifapentine and rifampicin 
are strong CYP3A inducers and have been 
shown to cause profound decreases in 
concentrations of other protease inhibitors, 
which can result in virological failure and 
resistance development (CYP450 enzyme 
induction). During attempts to overcome 
the decreased exposure by increasing the 
dose of other protease inhibitors with low 
dose ritonavir, a high frequency of liver 
reactions was seen with rifampicin.
rifabutin AUC** ↑ 55%
rifabutin Cmin
rifabutin Cmax
darunavir AUC ↑ 53%
darunavir Cmin ↑ 68%
darunavir Cmax ↑ 39%
** sum of active moieties of rifabutin (parent 
drug + 25-O-desacetyl metabolite)
** ↑ ND
** ↔
The interaction study showed a 
comparable daily systemic exposure for 
rifabutin between treatment at 300 mg 
once daily alone and 150 mg once every 
other day in combination with 
darunavir/ritonavir (600/100 mg twice 
daily) with an about 10-fold increase in the 
daily exposure to the active metabolite 25-
O-desacetylrifabutin. Furthermore, AUC 
of the sum of active moieties of rifabutin 
(parent drug + 25-O-desacetyl metabolite) 
was increased 1.6-fold, while Cmax
remained comparable.
Data on comparison with a 150 mg once 
daily reference dose is lacking.
(Rifabutin is an inducer and substrate of 
CYP3A.) An increase of systemic 
exposure to darunavir was observed when 
darunavir co-administered with 100 mg 
ritonavir was co-administered with 
rifabutin (150 mg once every other day).
darunavir and 
artemether/lumefantrine can be used 
without dose adjustments; however, 
due to the increase in lumefantrine 
exposure, the combination should be 
used with caution.
The combination of rifapentine and 
boosted darunavir is not 
recommended.
The combination of rifampicin and 
boosted darunavir is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3).
A dose reduction of rifabutin by 75% 
of the usual dose of 300 mg/day (i.e. 
rifabutin 150 mg once every other 
day) and increased monitoring for 
rifabutin related adverse events is 
warranted in patients receiving the 
combination with darunavir co-
administered with ritonavir. In case 
of safety issues, a further increase of 
the dosing interval for rifabutin 
and/or monitoring of rifabutin levels 
should be considered.
Consideration should be given to 
official guidance on the appropriate 
treatment of tuberculosis in HIV 
infected patients.
Based upon the safety profile of 
darunavir/ritonavir, the increase in 
darunavir exposure in the presence of 
rifabutin does not warrant a dose 
adjustment for darunavir/ritonavir.
Based on pharmacokinetic modeling, 
this dose reduction of 75% is also 
applicable if patients receive 
rifabutin at doses other than 
300 mg/day.
Co-administration of darunavir co-
administered with cobicistat and 
rifabutin is not recommended.
ANTINEOPLASTICS 
Dasatinib
Nilotinib
Vinblastine
Vincristine
Not studied. Boosted darunavir is expected 
to increase these antineoplastic plasma 
concentrations.
(CYP3A inhibition)
Concentrations of these medicinal 
products may be increased when co-
administered with boosted darunavir 
resulting in the potential for 
increased adverse events usually 
17
associated with these agents.
Caution should be exercised when 
combining one of these 
antineoplastic agents with boosted 
darunavir.
Concomitant use of everolimus or 
irinotecan and boosted darunavir is 
not recommended.
Concomitant administration of 
boosted darunavir and quetiapine is 
contraindicated as it may increase 
quetiapine-related toxicity. Increased 
concentrations of quetiapine may 
lead to coma (see section 4.3).
A dose decrease may be needed for 
these drugs when co-administered 
with boosted darunavir.
Concomitant administration of 
boosted darunavir and lurasidone, 
pimozide or sertindole is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Everolimus
Irinotecan
ANTIPSYCHOTICS/NEUROLEPTICS 
Quetiapine
Perphenazine
Risperidone
Thioridazine
Lurasidone
Pimozide
Sertindole
β-BLOCKERS 
Carvedilol
Metoprolol
Timolol
Not studied. Boosted darunavir is expected 
to increase these antipsychotic plasma 
concentrations.
(CYP3A inhibition)
Not studied. Boosted darunavir is expected 
to increase these antipsychotic plasma 
concentrations.
(CYP3A, CYP2D6 and/or P-gp inhibition)
Not studied. Boosted darunavir is expected 
to increase these β-blocker plasma 
concentrations.
(CYP2D6 inhibition)
Clinical monitoring is recommended 
when co-administering boosted 
darunavir with β-blockers. A lower 
dose of the β-blocker should be 
considered.
CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS 
Amlodipine
Diltiazem
Felodipine
Nicardipine
Nifedipine
Verapamil
Not studied. Boosted darunavir can be 
expected to increase the plasma 
concentrations of calcium channel 
blockers.
(CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 inhibition)
Clinical monitoring of therapeutic 
and adverse reactions is 
recommended when these medicines 
are concomitantly administered with 
boosted darunavir.
CORTICOSTEROIDS 
Corticosteroids primarily 
metabolised by CYP3A 
(including betamethasone, 
budesonide, fluticasone, 
mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone)
Fluticasone: in a clinical study where 
ritonavir 100 mg capsules twice daily were 
co-administered with 50 μg intranasal 
fluticasone propionate (4 times daily) for 
7 days in healthy subjects, fluticasone 
propionate plasma concentrations 
increased significantly, whereas the 
intrinsic cortisol levels decreased by 
approximately 86% (90% CI 82-89%). 
Greater effects may be expected when 
fluticasone is inhaled. Systemic 
corticosteroid effects including Cushing's 
syndrome and adrenal suppression have 
been reported in patients receiving 
ritonavir and inhaled or intranasally 
administered fluticasone. The effects of 
high fluticasone systemic exposure on 
ritonavir plasma levels are unknown.
Other corticosteroids: interaction not 
studied. Plasma concentrations of these 
medicinal products may be increased when 
Concomitant use of boosted 
darunavir and corticosteroids (all 
routes of administration) that are 
metabolised by CYP3A may increase 
the risk of development of systemic 
corticosteroid effects, including 
Cushing's syndrome and adrenal 
suppression. 
Co-administration with CYP3A-
metabolised corticosteroids is not 
recommended unless the potential 
benefit to the patient outweighs the 
risk, in which case patients should be 
monitored for systemic corticosteroid 
effects.
Alternative corticosteroids which are 
less dependent on CYP3A 
metabolism e.g. beclomethasone 
should be considered, particularly for 
long term use.
18
co-administered with boosted darunavir, 
resulting in reduced serum cortisol 
concentrations.
Dexamethasone (systemic) Not studied. Dexamethasone may decrease 
plasma concentrations of darunavir.
(CYP3A induction)
Systemic dexamethasone should be 
used with caution when combined 
with boosted darunavir.
ENDOTHELIN RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS 
Bosentan
Not studied. Concomitant use of bosentan 
and boosted darunavir may increase 
plasma concentrations of bosentan.
Bosentan is expected to decrease plasma 
concentrations of darunavir and/or its 
pharmacoenhancer.
(CYP3A induction)
When administered concomitantly 
with darunavir and low dose 
ritonavir, the patient's tolerability of 
bosentan should be monitored.
Co administration of darunavir co-
administered with cobicistat and 
bosentan is not recommended.
HEPATITIS C VIRUS (HCV) DIRECT-ACTING ANTIVIRALS 
NS3-4A protease inhibitors
Elbasvir/grazoprevir
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir
HERBAL PRODUCTS 
St John's wort (Hypericum 
perforatum)
Boosted darunavir may increase the 
exposure to grazoprevir.
(CYP3A and OATP1B inhibition)
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted darunavir may increase the 
exposure to glecaprevir and pibrentasvir.
(P-gp, BCRP and/or OATP1B1/3 
inhibition)
Not studied. St John's wort is expected to 
decrease the plasma concentrations of 
darunavir or its pharmacoenhancers.
(CYP450 induction)
HMG CO-A REDUCTASE INHIBITORS 
Lovastatin
Simvastatin
Not studied. Lovastatin and simvastatin are 
expected to have markedly increased 
plasma concentrations when co-
administered with boosted darunavir.
(CYP3A inhibition)
Atorvastatin
10 mg once daily
Pravastatin
40 mg single dose
atorvastatin AUC ↑ 3-4 fold
atorvastatin Cmin ↑ ≈5.5-10 fold
atorvastatin Cmax ↑ ≈2 fold
#darunavir/ritonavir
atorvastatin AUC ↑ 290% Ω
atorvastatin Cmax ↑ 319% Ω
atorvastatin Cmin ND Ω
Ω with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg
pravastatin AUC ↑ 81%¶
pravastatin Cmin ND
19
Concomitant use of boosted 
darunavir and elbasvir/grazoprevir is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
It is not recommended to 
co-administer boosted darunavir with 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir.
Boosted darunavir must not be used 
concomitantly with products 
containing St John's wort 
(Hypericum perforatum) (see section 
4.3). If a patient is already taking St 
John's wort, stop St John's wort and 
if possible check viral levels. 
Darunavir exposure (and also 
ritonavir exposure) may increase on 
stopping St John's wort. The 
inducing effect may persist for at 
least 2 weeks after cessation of 
treatment with St John's wort.
Increased plasma concentrations of 
lovastatin or simvastatin may cause 
myopathy, including 
rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use of 
boosted darunavir with lovastatin and 
simvastatin is therefore 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
When administration of atorvastatin 
and boosted darunavir is desired, it is 
recommended to start with an 
atorvastatin dose of 10 mg once 
daily. A gradual dose increase of 
atorvastatin may be tailored to the 
clinical response.
When administration of pravastatin 
and boosted darunavir is required, it 
pravastatin Cmax ↑ 63%
¶ an up to five-fold increase was seen in a limited 
subset of subjects
Rosuvastatin
10 mg once daily
rosuvastatin AUC ↑ 48%║
rosuvastatin Cmax ↑ 144%║
║ based on published data with darunavir/ritonavir
rosuvastatin AUC ↑ 93%§
rosuvastatin Cmax ↑ 277%§
rosuvastatin Cmin ND§
§ with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg
is recommended to start with the 
lowest possible dose of pravastatin 
and titrate up to the desired clinical 
effect while monitoring for safety.
When administration of rosuvastatin 
and boosted darunavir is required, it 
is recommended to start with the 
lowest possible dose of rosuvastatin 
and titrate up to the desired clinical 
effect while monitoring for safety.
OTHER LIPID MODIFYING AGENTS
Lomitapide
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted darunavir is expected to increase 
the exposure of lomitapide when co-
administered. 
(CYP3A inhibition)
Co-administration is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3).
H2-RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS 
Ranitidine
150 mg twice daily
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
IMMUNOSUPPRESSANTS 
Ciclosporin
Sirolimus
Tacrolimus
Not studied. Exposure to these 
immunosuppressants will be increased 
when co-administered with boosted 
darunavir.
(CYP3A inhibition)
Everolimus
INHALED BETA AGONISTS 
Salmeterol
Not studied. Concomitant use of 
salmeterol and boosted darunavir may 
increase plasma concentrations of 
salmeterol.
Boosted darunavir can be co-
administered with H2-receptor 
antagonists without dose 
adjustments.
Therapeutic drug monitoring of the 
immunosuppressive agent must be 
done when co-administration occurs.
Concomitant use of everolimus and 
boosted darunavir is not 
recommended.
Concomitant use of salmeterol and 
boosted darunavir is not 
recommended. The combination may 
result in increased risk of 
cardiovascular adverse event with 
salmeterol, including QT 
prolongation, palpitations and sinus 
tachycardia.
NARCOTIC ANALGESICS / TREATMENT OF OPIOID DEPENDENCE 
Methadone
individual dose ranging from 
55 mg to 150 mg once daily
R(-) methadone AUC ↓ 16%
R(-) methadone Cmin ↓ 15%
R(-) methadone Cmax ↓ 24%
darunavir /cobicistat may, in contrast, 
increase methadone plasma concentrations 
(see cobicistat SmPC).
No adjustment of methadone dose is 
required when initiating co-
administration with boosted 
darunavir. However, adjustment of 
the methadone dose may be 
necessary when concomitantly 
administered for a longer period of 
time. Therefore, clinical monitoring 
is recommended, as maintenance 
therapy may need to be adjusted in 
some patients.
Buprenorphine/naloxone
8/2 mg–16/4 mg once daily
buprenorphine AUC ↓ 11%
buprenorphine Cmin ↔
buprenorphine Cmax ↓ 8%
norbuprenorphine AUC ↑ 46%
norbuprenorphine Cmin ↑ 71%
norbuprenorphine Cmax ↑ 36%
20
The clinical relevance of the increase 
in norbuprenorphine 
pharmacokinetic parameters has not 
been established. Dose adjustment 
for buprenorphine may not be 
necessary when co-administered with 
Fentanyl
Oxycodone
Tramadol
naloxone AUC ↔
naloxone Cmin ND
naloxone Cmax ↔
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted darunavir may increase plasma 
concentrations of these analgesics.
(CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A inhibition)
boosted darunavir but a careful 
clinical monitoring for signs of 
opiate toxicity is recommended.
Clinical monitoring is recommended 
when co-administering boosted 
darunavir with these analgesics.
OESTROGEN-BASED CONTRACEPTIVES 
Drospirenone 
Ethinylestradiol 
(3 mg/0.02 mg once daily)
Ethinylestradiol
Norethindrone
35 μg/1 mg once daily
drospirenone AUC ↑ 58%€
drospirenone Cmin ND€
drospirenone Cmax ↑ 15%€
ethinylestradiol AUC  30%€
ethinylestradiol Cmin ND€
ethinylestradiol Cmax  14%€
€ with darunavir/cobicistat
ethinylestradiol AUC ↓ 44% β
ethinylestradiol Cmin ↓ 62% β
ethinylestradiol Cmax ↓ 32% β
norethindrone AUC ↓ 14% β
norethindrone Cmin ↓ 30% β
norethindrone Cmax ↔ β
β with darunavir/ritonavir
OPIOID ANTAGONIST
Naloxegol
Not studied. 
PHOSPHODIESTERASE, TYPE 5 (PDE-5) INHIBITORS 
For the treatment of erectile 
dysfunction
Avanafil
Sildenafil
Tadalafil
Vardenafil
In an interaction study #, a comparable 
systemic exposure to sildenafil was 
observed for a single intake of 100 mg 
sildenafil alone and a single intake of 
25 mg sildenafil co-administered with 
darunavir and low dose ritonavir.
For the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial 
hypertension
Sildenafil
Tadalafil
Not studied. Concomitant use of sildenafil 
or tadalafil for the treatment of pulmonary 
arterial hypertension and boosted 
darunavir may increase plasma
concentrations of sildenafil or tadalafil.
(CYP3A inhibition)
21
When darunavir is coadministered 
with a drospirenone-containing 
product, clinical monitoring is 
recommended due to the potential for 
hyperkalaemia. 
Alternative or additional 
contraceptive measures are 
recommended when oestrogen-based 
contraceptives are co-administered 
with boosted darunavir. Patients 
using oestrogens as hormone 
replacement therapy should be 
clinically monitored for signs of 
oestrogen deficiency.
Co-administration of boosted 
darunavir and naloxegol is 
contraindicated. 
The combination of avanafil and 
boosted darunavir is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3).
Concomitant use of other PDE-5 
inhibitors for the treatment of erectile 
dysfunction with boosted darunavir 
should be done with caution. If 
concomitant use of boosted darunavir 
with sildenafil, vardenafil or tadalafil 
is indicated, sildenafil at a single 
dose not exceeding 25 mg in 
48 hours, vardenafil at a single dose 
not exceeding 2.5 mg in 72 hours or 
tadalafil at a single dose not 
exceeding 10 mg in 72 hours is 
recommended.
A safe and effective dose of 
sildenafil for the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension co-
administered with boosted darunavir 
has not been established. There is an 
increased potential for sildenafil-
associated adverse events (including 
visual disturbances, hypotension, 
prolonged erection and syncope). 
Therefore, co-administration of 
boosted darunavir and sildenafil 
when used for the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Co-administration of tadalafil for the 
PROTON PUMP INHIBITORS 
Omeprazole
20 mg once daily
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
SEDATIVES/HYPNOTICS 
Buspirone
Clorazepate
Diazepam
Estazolam
Flurazepam
Midazolam (parenteral)
Zolpidem
Not studied. Sedative/hypnotics are 
extensively metabolised by CYP3A. Co-
administration with boosted darunavir may 
cause a large increase in the concentration 
of these medicines.
If parenteral midazolam is co-administered 
with boosted darunavir it may cause a 
large increase in the concentration of this 
benzodiazepine. Data from concomitant 
use of parenteral midazolam with other 
protease inhibitors suggest a possible 3-
4 fold increase in midazolam plasma 
levels.
Midazolam (oral)
Triazolam
TREATMENT FOR PREMATURE EJACULATION
Dapoxetine
Not studied. 
UROLOGICAL DRUGS
Fesoterodine
Solifenacin
Not studied.
treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension with boosted darunavir 
is not recommended.
Boosted darunavir can be co-
administered with proton pump 
inhibitors without dose adjustments.
Clinical monitoring is recommended 
when co-administering boosted 
darunavir with these 
sedatives/hypnotics and a lower dose 
of the sedatives/hypnotics should be 
considered.
If parenteral midazolam is co-
administered with boosted darunavir, 
it should be done in an intensive care 
unit (ICU) or similar setting, which 
ensures close clinical monitoring and 
appropriate medical management in 
case of respiratory depression and/or 
prolonged sedation. Dose adjustment 
for midazolam should be considered, 
especially if more than a single dose 
of midazolam is administered.
Boosted darunavir with triazolam or 
oral midazolam is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3).
Co-administration of boosted 
darunavir with dapoxetine is 
contraindicated.
Use with caution. Monitor for 
fesoterodine or solifenacin adverse 
reactions, dose reduction of 
fesoterodine or solifenacin may be 
necessary.
#
†
‡
Studies have been performed at lower than recommended doses of darunavir or with a different dosing regimen (see section 4.2
Posology).
The efficacy and safety of the use of darunavir with 100 mg ritonavir and any other HIV PI (e.g. (fos)amprenavir and tipranavir) has not 
been established in HIV patients. According to current treatment guidelines, dual therapy with protease inhibitors is generally not 
recommended.
Study was conducted with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg once daily.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
As a general rule, when deciding to use antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV infection in 
pregnant women and consequently for reducing the risk of HIV vertical transmission to the newborn, 
the animal data as well as the clinical experience in pregnant women should be taken into account.
There are no adequate and well controlled studies on pregnancy outcome with darunavir in pregnant 
women. Studies in animals do not indicate direct harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, 
embryonal/foetal development, parturition or postnatal development (see section 5.3).
22
Darunavir co-administered with low dose ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the 
potential benefit justifies the potential risk.
Treatment with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg during pregnancy results in low darunavir exposure 
(see section 5.2), which may be associated with an increased risk of treatment failure and an increased 
risk of HIV transmission to the child. Therapy with darunavir/cobicistat should not be initiated during 
pregnancy, and women who become pregnant during therapy with darunavir/cobicistat should be 
switched to an alternative regimen (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).
Breast-feeding
It is not known whether darunavir is excreted in human milk. Studies in rats have demonstrated that 
darunavir is excreted in milk and at high levels (1 000 mg/kg/day) resulted in toxicity of the offspring.
Because of the potential for adverse reactions in breast-fed infants, women should be instructed not to 
breast-feed if they are receiving Darunavir Krka.
In order to avoid transmission of HIV to the infant it is recommended that women living with HIV do 
not breast-feed.
Fertility
No human data on the effect of darunavir on fertility are available. There was no effect on mating or 
fertility with darunavir treatment in rats (see section 5.3).
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Darunavir in combination with cobicistat or ritonavir has no or negligible influence on the ability to 
drive and use machines. However, dizziness has been reported in some patients during treatment with 
regimens containing darunavir co-administered with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir and should be 
borne in mind when considering a patient's ability to drive or operate machinery (see section 4.8).
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
During the clinical development program (N=2 613 treatment-experienced subjects who initiated 
therapy with darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily), 51.3% of subjects experienced at least one
adverse reaction. The total mean treatment duration for subjects was 95.3 weeks. The most frequent 
adverse reactions reported in clinical studies and as spontaneous reports are diarrhoea, nausea, rash, 
headache and vomiting. The most frequent serious reactions are acute renal failure, myocardial 
infarction, immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, thrombocytopenia, osteonecrosis, 
diarrhoea, hepatitis and pyrexia.
In the 96 week analysis, the safety profile of darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily in treatment-
naïve subjects was similar to that seen with darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily in treatment-
experienced subjects except for nausea which was observed more frequently in treatment-naïve 
subjects. This was driven by mild intensity nausea. No new safety findings were identified in the 
192 week analysis of the treatment-naïve subjects in which the mean treatment duration of 
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily was 162.5 weeks.
During the Phase III clinical studies GS-US-216-130 with darunavir/cobicistat (N=313 treatment-
naïve and treatment-experienced subjects), 66.5% of subjects experienced at least one adverse 
reaction. The mean treatment duration was 58.4 weeks. The most frequent adverse reactions reported 
were diarrhoea (28%), nausea (23%), and rash (16%). Serious adverse reactions are diabetes mellitus, 
(drug) hypersensitivity, immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, rash and vomiting.
23
For information on cobicistat, consult the cobicistat Summary of Product Characteristics.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Adverse reactions are listed by system organ class (SOC) and frequency category. Within each 
frequency category, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. Frequency 
categories are defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon 
(≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000) and not known (frequency cannot be estimated 
from the available data).
Table 2. Adverse reactions observed with darunavir/ritonavir in clinical studies and post-marketing
MedDRA system organ class
Frequency category
Infections and infestations
uncommon
Blood and lymphatic system disorders
uncommon
rare
Immune system disorders
uncommon
Endocrine disorders
uncommon
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
common
uncommon
Psychiatric disorders
common
uncommon 
rare
Nervous system disorders
common
uncommon
rare
Eye disorders
uncommon
rare
Adverse reaction
herpes simplex
thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, anaemia, 
leukopenia
increased eosinophil count
immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, 
(drug) hypersensitivity
hypothyroidism, increased blood thyroid 
stimulating hormone
diabetes mellitus, hypertriglyceridaemia, 
hypercholesterolaemia, hyperlipidaemia
gout, anorexia, decreased appetite, decreased 
weight, increased weight, hyperglycaemia, insulin 
resistance, decreased high density lipoprotein, 
increased appetite, polydipsia, increased blood 
lactate dehydrogenase
insomnia
depression, disorientation, anxiety, sleep disorder, 
abnormal dreams, nightmare, decreased libido
confusional state, altered mood, restlessness
headache, peripheral neuropathy, dizziness
lethargy, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, dysgeusia, 
disturbance in attention, memory impairment, 
somnolence
syncope, convulsion, ageusia, sleep phase rhythm 
disturbance
conjunctival hyperaemia, dry eye
visual disturbance
Ear and labyrinth disorders
24
uncommon
Cardiac disorders
uncommon
rare
Vascular disorders
uncommon
vertigo
myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, prolonged 
electrocardiogram QT, tachycardia
acute myocardial infarction, sinus bradycardia, 
palpitations
hypertension, flushing
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders
uncommon
rare
dyspnoea, cough, epistaxis, throat irritation
rhinorrhoea
Gastrointestinal disorders
very common
common
uncommon
rare
Hepatobiliary disorders
common
uncommon
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
common
uncommon
rare
not known
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders
uncommon
rare
Renal and urinary disorders
uncommon
diarrhoea
vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain, increased 
blood amylase, dyspepsia, abdominal distension, 
flatulence
pancreatitis, gastritis, gastrooesophageal reflux 
disease, aphthous stomatitis, retching, dry mouth, 
abdominal discomfort, constipation, increased 
lipase, eructation, oral dysaesthesia
stomatitis, haematemesis, cheilitis, dry lip, coated 
tongue
increased alanine aminotransferase
hepatitis, cytolytic hepatitis, hepatic steatosis, 
hepatomegaly, increased transaminase, increased 
aspartate aminotransferase, increased blood 
bilirubin, increased blood alkaline phosphatase, 
increased gamma-glutamyltransferase
rash (including macular, maculopapular, papular, 
erythematous and pruritic rash), pruritus
angioedema, generalised rash, allergic dermatitis, 
urticaria, eczema, erythema, hyperhidrosis, night 
sweats, alopecia, acne, dry skin, nail pigmentation
DRESS, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema 
multiforme, dermatitis, seborrhoeic dermatitis, 
skin lesion, xeroderma
toxic epidermal necrolysis, acute generalised 
exanthematous pustulosis
myalgia, osteonecrosis, muscle spasms, muscular 
weakness, arthralgia, pain in extremity, 
osteoporosis, increased blood creatine 
phosphokinase
musculoskeletal stiffness, arthritis, joint stiffness
acute renal failure, renal failure, nephrolithiasis, 
increased blood creatinine, proteinuria, 
25
rare
rare
Reproductive system and breast disorders
bilirubinuria, dysuria, nocturia, pollakiuria
decreased creatinine renal clearance
crystal nephropathy§
erectile dysfunction, gynaecomastia
uncommon
General disorders and administration site conditions
common
uncommon
asthenia, fatigue
pyrexia, chest pain, peripheral oedema, malaise, 
feeling hot, irritability, pain
rare
§
adverse reaction identified in the post-marketing setting. Per the guideline on Summary of Product Characteristics 
chills, abnormal feeling, xerosis
(Revision 2, September 2009), the frequency of this adverse reaction in the post-marketing setting was determined using the 
"Rule of 3".
Table 3. Adverse reactions observed with darunavir/cobicistat in adult patients
MedDRA system organ class
Frequency category
Immune system disorders
common
uncommon
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
common
Psychiatric disorders
common
Nervous system disorders
very common
Gastrointestinal disorders
very common
common
uncommon
Hepatobiliary disorders
common
uncommon
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
very common
common
rare
not known
Adverse reaction
(drug) hypersensitivity
immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome
anorexia, diabetes mellitus, 
hypercholesterolaemia, hypertriglyceridaemia, 
hyperlipidaemia
abnormal dreams
headache
diarrhoea, nausea
vomiting, abdominal pain, abdominal distension, 
dyspepsia, flatulence, pancreatic enzymes 
increased
pancreatitis acute
hepatic enzyme increased
hepatitis*, cytolytic hepatitis*
rash (including macular, maculopapular, papular, 
erythematous, pruritic rash, generalised rash, and 
allergic dermatitis)
angioedema, pruritus, urticaria
drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic 
symptoms*, Stevens-Johnson syndrome*
toxic epidermal necrolysis*, acute generalised 
exanthematous pustulosis*
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders
26
common
uncommon
Renal and urinary disorders
rare
myalgia
osteonecrosis*
crystal nephropathy*§
Reproductive system and breast disorders
uncommon
General disorders and administration site conditions
gynaecomastia*
fatigue
asthenia
common
uncommon
Investigations
common
* these adverse drug reactions have not been reported in clinical study experience with darunavir/cobicistat but have been 
noted with darunavir/ritonavir treatment and could be expected with darunavir/cobicistat too.
§ adverse reaction identified in the post-marketing setting. Per the guideline on Summary of Product Characteristics (Revision 
2, September 2009), the frequency of this adverse reaction in the post-marketing setting was determined using the "Rule of 
3".
increased blood creatinine
Description of selected adverse reactions
Rash
In clinical studies, rash was mostly mild to moderate, often occurring within the first four weeks of 
treatment and resolving with continued dosing. In cases of severe skin reaction see the warning in 
section 4.4. In a single arm study investigating darunavir 800 mg once daily in combination with 
cobicistat 150 mg once daily and other antiretrovirals 2.2% of patients discontinued treatment due to 
rash.
During the clinical development program of raltegravir in treatment-experienced patients, rash, 
irrespective of causality, was more commonly observed with regimens containing darunavir/ritonavir 
+ raltegravir compared to those containing darunavir/ritonavir without raltegravir or raltegravir 
without darunavir/ritonavir. Rash considered by the investigator to be drug-related occurred at similar 
rates. The exposure-adjusted rates of rash (all causality) were 10.9, 4.2, and 3.8 per 100 patient-years
(PYR), respectively; and for drug-related rash were 2.4, 1.1, and 2.3 per 100 PYR, respectively. The 
rashes observed in clinical studies were mild to moderate in severity and did not result in 
discontinuation of therapy (see section 4.4).
Metabolic parameters
Weight and levels of blood lipids and glucose may increase during antiretroviral therapy (see section 
4.4).
Musculoskeletal abnormalities
Increased CPK, myalgia, myositis and rarely, rhabdomyolysis have been reported with the use of 
protease inhibitors, particularly in combination with NRTIs.
Cases of osteonecrosis have been reported, particularly in patients with generally acknowledged risk 
factors, advanced HIV disease or long-term exposure to combination antiretroviral therapy (CART). 
The frequency of this is unknown (see section 4.4).
Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome
In HIV infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
infections may arise. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have 
also been reported; however, the reported time to onset is more variable and these events can occur 
many months after initiation of treatment (see section 4.4).
Bleeding in haemophiliac patients
27
There have been reports of increased spontaneous bleeding in haemophiliac patients receiving 
antiretroviral protease inhibitors (see section 4.4).
Paediatric population
The safety assessment of darunavir with ritonavir in paediatric patients is based on the 48-week 
analysis of safety data from three Phase II studies. The following patient populations were evaluated 
(see section 5.1):
-
80 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 6 to 17 years and weighing at 
least 20 kg who received darunavir tablets with low dose ritonavir twice daily in combination 
with other antiretroviral agents.
21 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 3 to < 6 years and weighing 
10 kg to < 20 kg (16 participants from 15 kg to < 20 kg) who received darunavir oral suspension 
with low dose ritonavir twice daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents.
12 ART-naïve HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 12 to 17 years and weighing at least 
40 kg who received darunavir tablets with low dose ritonavir once daily in combination with 
other antiretroviral agents (see section 5.1).
-
-
Overall, the safety profile in these paediatric patients was similar to that observed in the adult 
population.
Other special populations 
Patients co-infected with hepatitis B and/or hepatitis C virus
Among 1 968 treatment-experienced patients receiving darunavir co-administered with ritonavir
600/100 mg twice daily, 236 patients were co-infected with hepatitis B or C. Co-infected patients were 
more likely to have baseline and treatment emergent hepatic transaminase elevations than those 
without chronic viral hepatitis (see section 4.4).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
Human experience of acute overdose with darunavir co-administered with cobicistat or low dose 
ritonavir is limited. Single doses up to 3 200 mg of darunavir as oral solution alone and up to 1 600 mg 
of the tablet formulation of darunavir in combination with ritonavir have been administered to healthy 
volunteers without untoward symptomatic effects.
There is no specific antidote for overdose with darunavir. Treatment of overdose with darunavir 
consists of general supportive measures including monitoring of vital signs and observation of the 
clinical status of the patient. 
Since darunavir is highly protein bound, dialysis is unlikely to be beneficial in significant removal of 
the active substance.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antivirals for systemic use, protease inhibitors, ATC code: J05AE10.
28
Mechanism of action
Darunavir is an inhibitor of the dimerisation and of the catalytic activity of the HIV-1 protease (KD of 
4.5 x 10-12M). It selectively inhibits the cleavage of HIV encoded Gag-Pol polyproteins in virus 
infected cells, thereby preventing the formation of mature infectious virus particles.
Antiviral activity in vitro
Darunavir exhibits activity against laboratory strains and clinical isolates of HIV-1 and laboratory 
strains of HIV-2 in acutely infected T-cell lines, human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and 
human monocytes/macrophages with median EC50 values ranging from 1.2 to 8.5 nM (0.7 to 
5.0 ng/ml). Darunavir demonstrates antiviral activity in vitro against a broad panel of HIV-1 group M 
(A, B, C, D, E, F, G) and group O primary isolates with EC50 values ranging from < 0.1 to 4.3 nM.
These EC50 values are well below the 50% cellular toxicity concentration range of 87 µM to 
> 100 µM.
Resistance
In vitro selection of darunavir-resistant virus from wild type HIV-1 was lengthy (> 3 years). The 
selected viruses were unable to grow in the presence of darunavir concentrations above 400 nM. 
Viruses selected in these conditions and showing decreased susceptibility to darunavir (range: 23-50-
fold) harboured 2 to 4 amino acid substitutions in the protease gene. The decreased susceptibility to 
darunavir of the emerging viruses in the selection experiment could not be explained by the emergence 
of these protease mutations.
The clinical study data from ART-experienced patients (TITAN study and the pooled analysis of the 
POWER 1, 2 and 3 and DUET 1 and 2 studies) showed that virologic response to darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir was decreased when 3 or more darunavir RAMs (V11I, V32I, 
L33F, I47V, I50V, I54L or M, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V) were present at baseline or when these 
mutations developed during treatment.
Increasing baseline darunavir fold change in EC50 (FC) was associated with decreasing virologic 
response. A lower and upper clinical cut-off of 10 and 40 were identified. Isolates with baseline 
FC ≤ 10 are susceptible; isolates with FC > 10 to 40 have decreased susceptibility; isolates with 
FC > 40 are resistant (see Clinical results).
Viruses isolated from patients on darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily experiencing virologic 
failure by rebound that were susceptible to tipranavir at baseline remained susceptible to tipranavir 
after treatment in the vast majority of cases.
The lowest rates of developing resistant HIV virus are observed in ART-naïve patients who are treated 
for the first time with darunavir in combination with other ART.
The table below shows the development of HIV-1 protease mutations and loss of susceptibility to PIs 
in virologic failures at endpoint in the ARTEMIS, ODIN and TITAN studies.
Table 4. The development of HIV-1 protease mutations and loss of susceptibility to PIs in virologic 
failures at endpoint in the ARTEMIS, ODIN and TITAN studies
ARTEMIS
Week 192
darunavir/ 
ritonavir
800/100 mg
once daily
ODIN
Week 48
darunavir/ ritonavir
800/100 mg
once daily
N=294
darunavir/ 
ritonavir
600/100 mg
twice daily
TITAN
Week 48
darunavir/ ritonavir
600/100 mg
twice daily
N=298
29
Total number of 
virologic failuresa, n 
(%)
Rebounders
N=343
N=296
55 (16.0%)
65 (22.1%)
54 (18.2%)
31 (10.4%)
39 (11.4%)
11 (3.7%)
11 (3.7%)
16 (5.4%)
16 (4.7%)
54 (18.4%)
Never suppressed 
subjects
Number of subjects with virologic failure and paired baseline/endpoint genotypes, developing 
mutationsb at endpoint, n/N
Primary (major) PI 
mutations
43 (14.5%)
0/42
1/60
0/43
6/28
15 (5.0%)
PI RAMs
Number of subjects with virologic failure and paired baseline/endpoint phenotypes, showing loss of 
susceptibility to PIs at endpoint compared to baseline, n/N
PI
10/28
4/43
4/42
7/60
darunavir
amprenavir
atazanavir
indinavir
0/39
0/39
0/39
0/39
1/58
1/58
2/56
2/57
0/41
0/40
0/40
0/40
3/26
0/22
0/22
1/24
0/23
lopinavir
0/22
saquinavir
1/25
tipranavir
a TLOVR non-VF censored algorithm based on HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml, except for TITAN (HIV-1 RNA < 400 
copies/ml)
b IAS-USA lists
0/39
0/39
0/39
0/40
0/40
0/41
1/58
0/56
0/58
Cross-resistance
Darunavir FC was less than 10 for 90% of 3 309 clinical isolates resistant to amprenavir, atazanavir, 
indinavir, lopinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir and/or tipranavir showing that viruses resistant to 
most PIs remain susceptible to darunavir.
In the virologic failures of the ARTEMIS study no cross-resistance with other PIs was observed.
In the virologic failures of the GS-US-216-130 study no cross-resistance with other HIV PIs was 
observed.
Clinical results
The pharmacokinetic enhancing effect of pharmacokinetic enhancer other than ritonavir on darunavir 
was evaluated in a Phase I study in healthy subjects that were administered darunavir 800 mg with 
ritonavir at 100 mg or other phrmacokinetic enhancer once daily. The steady-state pharmacokinetic 
parameters of darunavir were comparable when boosted with ritonavir.
Adult patients
Efficacy of darunavir 800 mg once daily co-administered with 100 mg ritonavir once daily in ART-
naïve patients
The evidence of efficacy of darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily is based on the analyses of 
192 week data from the randomised, controlled, open-label Phase III study ARTEMIS in antiretroviral 
treatment-naïve HIV-1 infected patients comparing darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily with 
lopinavir/ritonavir 800/200 mg per day (given as a twice-daily or as a once-daily regimen). Both arms 
used a fixed background regimen consisting of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg once daily and 
emtricitabine 200 mg once daily.
30
The table below shows the efficacy data of the 48 week and 96 week analyses from the ARTEMIS
study:
Table 5. The efficacy data of the 48 week and 96 week analyses from the ARTEMIS study.
ARTEMIS
darunavir/ 
ritonavir
800/100 mg 
once daily
N=343
Week 48a
Lopinavir/ 
ritonavir
800/200 mg 
per day
N=346
Treatment 
difference 
(95% CI of 
difference)
darunavir/ 
ritonavir
800/100 mg 
once daily
N=343
Week 96b
Lopinavir/ 
ritonavir
800/200 mg 
per day
N=346
Treatment 
difference 
(95% CI of 
difference)
83.7%
(287)
85.8%
(194/226)
78.3%
(271)
84.5%
(191/226)
5.3%
(-0.5; 11.2)d
1.3%
(-5.2; 7.9)d
79.0%
(271)
80.5%
(182/226)
70.8%
(245)
75.2%
(170/226)
8.2%
(1.7; 14.7)d
5.3%
(-2.3; 13.0)d
Outcomes
HIV-1 RNA < 50 
copies/mlc
All patients
With baseline 
HIV-
RNA < 100 000
66.7%
(80/120)
62.5%
(75/120)
76.1%
(89/117)
79.5%
(93/117)
78.7%
(111/141)
79.4%
(112/141)
70.3%
(104/148)
12.8%
(1.6; 24.1)d
9.2%
(-0.8; 19.2)d
With baseline 
HIV-
RNA ≥ 100 000
With baseline 
CD4+ cell count 
< 200
With baseline 
CD4+ cell count 
≥ 200
median CD4+ cell 
count change from 
baseline (x 106/L)e
a Data based on analyses at week 48
b Data based on analyses at week 96
c Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm
d Based on normal approximation to the difference in % response
e Non-completer is failure imputation: patients who discontinued prematurely are imputed with a change equal to 0
2.3%
(-4.6; 9.2)d
86.6%
(175/202)
84.3%
(167/198)
75.3%
(149/198)
79.2%
(160/202)
64.9%
(96/148)
141
137
171
188
13.6%
(1.9; 25.3)d
13.9%
(3.5; 24.2)d
4.0%
(-4.3; 12.2)d
Non-inferiority in virologic response to the darunavir/ritonavir treatment, defined as the percentage of 
patients with plasma HIV-1 RNA level < 50 copies/ml, was demonstrated (at the pre-defined 12% 
non-inferiority margin) for both Intent-To-Treat (ITT) and On Protocol (OP) populations in the 
48 week analysis. These results were confirmed in the analyses of data at 96 weeks of treatment in the 
ARTEMIS study. These results were sustained up to 192 weeks of treatment in the ARTEMIS study.
Efficacy of darunavir 800 mg once daily co-administered with 100 mg ritonavir once daily in ART-
experienced patients
ODIN is a Phase III, randomised, open-label study comparing darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once 
daily versus darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily in ART-experienced HIV-1 infected patients 
with screening genotype resistance testing showing no darunavir RAMs (i.e. V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, 
I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V, L89V) and a screening HIV-1 RNA > 1 000 copies/ml. 
Efficacy analysis is based on 48 weeks of treatment (see table below). Both arms used an optimised 
background regimen (OBR) of ≥ 2 NRTIs.
Table 6. The efficacy data from the ODIN study.
ODIN
31
Outcomes
HIV-1 RNA < 50 
copies/mla
With Baseline HIV-
1 RNA (copies/ml)
< 100,000
≥ 100,000
With Baseline CD4+ 
cell count (x 106/L)
≥ 100
< 100
Darunavir/ritonavir 
800/100 mg once daily + 
OBR
N=294
darunavir/ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice daily 
+ OBR
N=296
Treatment difference
(95% CI of difference)
72.1% (212)
70.9% (210)
1.2% (-6.1; 8.5)b
77.6% (198/255)
35.9% (14/39)
73.2% (194/265)
51.6% (16/31)
4.4% (-3.0; 11.9)
-15.7% (-39.2; 7.7)
75.1% (184/245)
57.1% (28/49)
72.5% (187/258)
60.5% (23/38)
2.6% (-5.1; 10.3)
-3.4% (-24.5; 17.8)
70.4% (126/179)
90.5% (38/42)
72.7% (32/44)
55.2% (16/29)
With HIV-1 clade
Type B
Type AE
Type C
Otherc
mean CD4+ cell count 
change from baseline
(x 106/L)e
a Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm
b Based on a normal approximation of the difference in % response
c Clades A1, D, F1, G, K, CRF02_AG, CRF12_BF, and CRF06_CPX
d Difference in means
e Last Observation Carried Forward imputation
108
64.3% (128/199)
91.2% (31/34)
78.8% (26/33)
83.3% (25/30)
112
6.1% (-3.4; 15.6)
-0.7% (-14.0; 12.6)
-6.1% (-2.6; 13.7)
-28.2% (-51.0; -5.3)
-5d (-25; 16)
At 48 weeks, virologic response, defined as the percentage of patients with plasma HIV-1 RNA level 
< 50 copies/ml, with darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily treatment was demonstrated to be 
non-inferior (at the pre-defined 12% non-inferiority margin) compared to darunavir/ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice daily for both ITT and OP populations.
Darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily in ART-experienced patients should not be used in patients 
with one or more darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs) or HIV-
1 RNA ≥ 100 000 copies/ml or CD4+ cell count < 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2 and 4.4). Limited 
data is available in patients with HIV-1 clades other than B.
Paediatric patients
ART-naïve paediatric patients from the age of 12 years to < 18 years, and weighing at least 40 kg
DIONE is an open-label, Phase II study evaluating the pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability, and 
efficacy of darunavir with low dose ritonavir in 12 ART-naïve HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged 
12 to less than 18 years and weighing at least 40 kg. These patients received darunavir/ritonavir 
800/100 mg once daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents. Virologic response was defined 
as a decrease in plasma HIV-1 RNA viral load of at least 1.0 log10 versus baseline.
Table 7. The efficacy data from the DIONE study.
Outcomes at week 48
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mla
CD4+ percent change from baselineb
CD4+ cell count mean change from baselineb
DIONE
32
darunavir/ritonavir
N=12
83.3% (10)
14
221
≥ 1.0 log10 decrease from baseline in plasma viral load
a Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm.
b Non-completer is failure imputation: patients who discontinued prematurely are imputed with a change equal to 0.
100%
For additional clinical study results in ART-experienced adults and paediatric patients, refer to the 
Summary of Product Characteristics for Darunavir Krka 600 mg tablets.
Pregnancy and postpartum
Darunavir/ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily or 800/100 mg once daily) in combination with a 
background regimen was evaluated in a clinical study of 36 pregnant women (18 in each arm) during 
the second and third trimesters, and postpartum. Virologic response was preserved throughout the 
study period in both arms. No mother to child transmission occurred in the infants born to the 
31 subjects who stayed on the antiretroviral treatment through delivery. There were no new clinically 
relevant safety findings compared with the known safety profile of darunavir/ritonavir in HIV-1 
infected adults (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2).
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
The pharmacokinetic properties of darunavir, co-administered with cobicistat or ritonavir, have been 
evaluated in healthy adult volunteers and in HIV-1 infected patients. Exposure to darunavir was higher 
in HIV-1 infected patients than in healthy subjects. The increased exposure to darunavir in HIV-1 
infected patients compared to healthy subjects may be explained by the higher concentrations of α1-
acid glycoprotein (AAG) in HIV-1 infected patients, resulting in higher darunavir binding to plasma 
AAG and, therefore, higher plasma concentrations.
Darunavir is primarily metabolised by CYP3A. Cobicistat and ritonavir inhibit CYP3A, thereby 
increasing the plasma concentrations of darunavir considerably.
For information on cobicistat pharmacokinetic properties, consult the cobicistat Summary of Product 
Characteristics.
Absorption
Darunavir was rapidly absorbed following oral administration. Maximum plasma concentration of 
darunavir in the presence of low dose ritonavir is generally achieved within 2.5-4.0 hours.
The absolute oral bioavailability of a single 600 mg dose of darunavir alone was approximately 37% 
and increased to approximately 82% in the presence of 100 mg twice daily ritonavir. The overall 
pharmacokinetic enhancement effect by ritonavir was an approximate 14-fold increase in the systemic 
exposure of darunavir when a single dose of 600 mg darunavir was given orally in combination with 
ritonavir at 100 mg twice daily (see section 4.4).
When administered without food, the relative bioavailability of darunavir in the presence of cobicistat 
or low dose ritonavir is lower as compared to intake with food. Therefore, darunavir tablets should be 
taken with cobicistat or ritonavir and with food. The type of food does not affect exposure to 
darunavir.
Distribution
Darunavir is approximately 95% bound to plasma protein. Darunavir binds primarily to plasma α1-acid 
glycoprotein.
Following intravenous administration, the volume of distribution of darunavir alone was 88.1 ± 59.0 l 
(Mean ± SD) and increased to 131 ± 49.9 l (Mean ± SD) in the presence of 100 mg twice-daily 
ritonavir.
Biotransformation
33
In vitro experiments with human liver microsomes (HLMs) indicate that darunavir primarily 
undergoes oxidative metabolism. Darunavir is extensively metabolised by the hepatic CYP system and 
almost exclusively by isozyme CYP3A4. A 14C-darunavir study in healthy volunteers showed that a 
majority of the radioactivity in plasma after a single 400/100 mg darunavir with ritonavir dose was due 
to the parent active substance. At least 3 oxidative metabolites of darunavir have been identified in 
humans; all showed activity that was at least 10-fold less than the activity of darunavir against wild 
type HIV.
Elimination
After a 400/100 mg 14C-darunavir with ritonavir dose, approximately 79.5% and 13.9% of the 
administered dose of 14C-darunavir could be retrieved in faeces and urine, respectively. Unchanged 
darunavir accounted for approximately 41.2% and 7.7% of the administered dose in faeces and urine, 
respectively. The terminal elimination half-life of darunavir was approximately 15 hours when 
combined with ritonavir.
The intravenous clearance of darunavir alone (150 mg) and in the presence of low dose ritonavir was 
32.8 l/h and 5.9 l/h, respectively.
Special populations
Paediatric population
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken twice daily in 74 treatment-
experienced paediatric patients, aged 6 to 17 years and weighing at least 20 kg, showed that the 
administered weight-based doses of darunavir /ritonavir resulted in darunavir exposure comparable to 
that in adults receiving darunavir /ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily (see section 4.2).
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken twice daily in 14 treatment-
experienced paediatric patients, aged 3 to < 6 years and weighing at least 15 kg to < 20 kg, showed 
that weight-based doses resulted in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that achieved in adults
receiving darunavir /ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily (see section 4.2).
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken once daily in 12 ART-naïve 
paediatric patients, aged 12 to < 18 years and weighing at least 40 kg, showed that darunavir /ritonavir 
800/100 mg once daily results in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that achieved in adults 
receiving darunavir /ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily. Therefore the same once daily dose may be used 
in treatment-experienced adolescents aged 12 to < 18 years and weighing at least 40 kg without 
darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs)* and who have plasma HIV-
1 RNA < 100 000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count ≥ 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2).
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken once daily in 10 treatment-
experienced paediatric patients, aged 3 to < 6 years and weighing at least 14 kg to < 20 kg, showed 
that weight-based doses resulted in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that achieved in adults 
receiving darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily (see section 4.2). In addition, pharmacokinetic 
modeling and simulation of darunavir exposures in paediatric patients across the ages of 3 to 
< 18 years confirmed the darunavir exposures as observed in the clinical studies and allowed the 
identification of weight-based darunavir/ritonavir once daily dosing regimens for paediatric patients 
weighing at least 15 kg that are either ART-naïve or treatment-experienced paediatric patients without 
DRV-RAMs* and who have plasma HIV-1 RNA < 100 000copies/ml and CD4+ cell count 
≥ 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2).
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V
Elderly
Population pharmacokinetic analysis in HIV infected patients showed that darunavir pharmacokinetics 
are not considerably different in the age range (18 to 75 years) evaluated in HIV infected patients 
(n=12, age ≥ 65) (see section 4.4). However, only limited data were available in patients above the age 
34
of 65 year.
Gender
Population pharmacokinetic analysis showed a slightly higher darunavir exposure (16.8%) in HIV 
infected females compared to males. This difference is not clinically relevant.
Renal impairment
Results from a mass balance study with 14C-darunavir with ritonavir showed that approximately 7.7% 
of the administered dose of darunavir is excreted in the urine unchanged.
Although darunavir has not been studied in patients with renal impairment, population 
pharmacokinetic analysis showed that the pharmacokinetics of darunavir were not significantly 
affected in HIV infected patients with moderate renal impairment (CrCl between 30-60 ml/min, n=20) 
(see sections 4.2 and 4.4).
Hepatic impairment
Darunavir is primarily metabolised and eliminated by the liver. In a multiple dose study with darunavir
co-administered with ritonavir (600/100 mg) twice daily, it was demonstrated that the total plasma 
concentrations of darunavir in subjects with mild (Child-Pugh Class A, n=8) and moderate (Child-
Pugh Class B, n=8) hepatic impairment were comparable with those in healthy subjects. However, 
unbound darunavir concentrations were approximately 55% (Child-Pugh Class A) and 100% (Child-
Pugh Class B) higher, respectively. The clinical relevance of this increase is unknown therefore, 
darunavir should be used with caution. The effect of severe hepatic impairment on the 
pharmacokinetics of darunavir has not been studied (see sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4).
Pregnancy and postpartum
The exposure to total darunavir and ritonavir after intake of darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice 
daily and darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen was generally 
lower during pregnancy compared with postpartum. However, for unbound (i.e. active) darunavir, the 
pharmacokinetic parameters were less reduced during pregnancy compared to postpartum, due to an 
increase in the unbound fraction of darunavir during pregnancy compared to postpartum.
Table 8. Pharmacokinetic results of total darunavir after administration of darunavir/ritonavir at 
600/100 mg twice daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen, during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, the third trimester of pregnancy and postpartum
Second trimester of 
pregnancy 
(n=12)a
4 668 ± 1 097
39 370 ± 9 597
1 922 ± 825
Pharmacokinetics of 
total darunavir 
(mean ± SD)
Cmax, ng/ml
AUC12h, ng.h/ml
Cmin, ng/ml
a n=11 for AUC12h
Table 9. Pharmacokinetic results of total darunavir after administration of darunavir/ritonavir at 
800/100 mg once daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen, during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, the third trimester of pregnancy and postpartum
Third trimester of 
pregnancy 
(n=12) 
5 328 ± 1 631
45 880 ± 17 360
2 661 ± 1 269
Postpartum (6-
12 weeks)
(n=12) 
6 659 ± 2 364
56 890 ± 26 340
2 851 ± 2 216
Pharmacokinetics of 
total darunavir 
(mean ± SD)
Cmax, ng/ml
AUC24h, ng.h/ml
Cmin, ng/ml
Second trimester of 
pregnancy 
(n=17) 
4 964 ± 1 505
62 289 ± 16 234
1 248 ± 542
Third Trimester of 
pregnancy 
(n=15) 
5 132 ± 1 198
61 112 ± 13 790
1 075 ± 594
Postpartum (6-
12 weeks)
(n=16) 
7 310 ± 1 704
92 116 ± 29 241
1, 473 ± 1 141
In women receiving darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, mean intra-individual values for total darunavir Cmax, AUC12h and Cmin were 28%, 26% and 
35
26% lower, respectively, as compared with postpartum; during the third trimester of pregnancy, total 
darunavir Cmax, AUC12h and Cmin values were 18%, 16% lower and 2% higher, respectively, as 
compared with postpartum.
In women receiving darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, mean intra-individual values for total darunavir Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin were 33%, 31% and 
30% lower, respectively, as compared with postpartum; during the third trimester of pregnancy, total 
darunavir Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin values were 29%, 32% and 50% lower, respectively, as compared 
with postpartum.
Treatment with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg once daily during pregnancy results in low darunavir 
exposure. In women receiving darunavir/cobicistat during the second trimester of pregnancy, mean 
intra-individual values for total darunavir Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin were 49%, 56% and 92% lower, 
respectively, as compared with postpartum; during the third trimester of pregnancy, total darunavir 
Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin values were 37%, 50% and 89% lower, respectively, as compared with 
postpartum. The unbound fraction was also substantially reduced, including around 90% reductions of 
Cmin levels. The main cause of these low exposures is a marked reduction in cobicistat exposure as a 
consequence of pregnancy-associated enzyme induction (see below).
Table 10. Pharmacokinetic results of total darunavir after administration of darunavir/cobicistat 
800/150 mg once daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen, during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, the third trimester of pregnancy, and postpartum
Pharmacokinetics of 
total darunavir
(mean ± SD)
Cmax, ng/mL
AUC24h, ng.h/mL
Cmin, ng/mL
Second trimester 
of pregnancy
(n=7)
4 340 ± 1 616
47 293 ± 19 058
168 ± 149
Third trimester 
of pregnancy
(n=6)
4 910 ± 970
47 991 ± 9 879
184 ± 99
Postpartum 
(6-12 weeks)
(n=6)
7 918 ± 2 199
99 613 ± 34 862
1 538 ± 1 344
The exposure to cobicistat was lower during pregnancy, potentially leading to suboptimal boosting of 
darunavir. During the second trimester of pregnancy, cobicistat Cmax, AUC24h, and Cmin were 50%, 
63%, and 83% lower, respectively, as compared with postpartum. During the third trimester of 
pregnancy, cobicistat Cmax, AUC24h, and Cmin, were 27%, 49%, and 83% lower, respectively, as 
compared with postpartum.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Animal toxicology studies have been conducted at exposures up to clinical exposure levels with 
darunavir alone, in mice, rats and dogs and in combination with ritonavir in rats and dogs.
In repeated-dose toxicology studies in mice, rats and dogs, there were only limited effects of treatment 
with darunavir. In rodents the target organs identified were the haematopoietic system, the blood 
coagulation system, liver and thyroid. A variable but limited decrease in red blood cell-related 
parameters was observed, together with increases in activated partial thromboplastin time.
Changes were observed in liver (hepatocyte hypertrophy, vacuolation, increased liver enzymes) and 
thyroid (follicular hypertrophy). In the rat, the combination of darunavir with ritonavir lead to a small 
increase in effect on RBC parameters, liver and thyroid and increased incidence of islet fibrosis in the 
pancreas (in male rats only) compared to treatment with darunavir alone. In the dog, no major toxicity 
findings or target organs were identified up to exposures equivalent to clinical exposure at the 
recommended dose.
In a study conducted in rats, the number of corpora lutea and implantations were decreased in the 
presence of maternal toxicity. Otherwise, there were no effects on mating or fertility with darunavir 
treatment up to 1 000 mg/kg/day and exposure levels below (AUC-0.5 fold) of that in human at the 
clinically recommended dose. Up to same dose levels, there was no teratogenicity with darunavir in 
36
rats and rabbits when treated alone nor in mice when treated in combination with ritonavir. The 
exposure levels were lower than those with the recommended clinical dose in humans. In a pre- and 
postnatal development assessment in rats, darunavir with and without ritonavir, caused a transient 
reduction in body weight gain of the offspring pre-weaning and there was a slight delay in the opening 
of eyes and ears. Darunavir in combination with ritonavir caused a reduction in the number of pups 
that exhibited the startle response on day 15 of lactation and a reduced pup survival during lactation. 
These effects may be secondary to pup exposure to the active substance via the milk and/or maternal 
toxicity. No post weaning functions were affected with darunavir alone or in combination with 
ritonavir. In juvenile rats receiving darunavir up to days 23-26, increased mortality was observed with 
convulsions in some animals. Exposure in plasma, liver and brain was considerably higher than in 
adult rats after comparable doses in mg/kg between days 5 and 11 of age. After day 23 of life, the 
exposure was comparable to that in adult rats. The increased exposure was likely at least partly due to 
immaturity of the drug-metabolising enzymes in juvenile animals. No treatment related mortalities 
were noted in juvenile rats dosed at 1 000 mg/kg darunavir (single dose) on day 26 of age or at 
500 mg/kg (repeated dose) from day 23 to 50 of age, and the exposures and toxicity profile were 
comparable to those observed in adult rats.
Due to uncertainties regarding the rate of development of the human blood brain barrier and liver 
enzymes, darunavir with low dose ritonavir should not be used in paediatric patients below 3 years of 
age.
Darunavir was evaluated for carcinogenic potential by oral gavage administration to mice and rats up 
to 104 weeks. Daily doses of 150, 450 and 1 000 mg/kg were administered to mice and doses of 50, 
150 and 500 mg/kg were administered to rats. Dose-related increases in the incidences of 
hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas were observed in males and females of both species. Thyroid 
follicular cell adenomas were noted in male rats. Administration of darunavir did not cause a 
statistically significant increase in the incidence of any other benign or malignant neoplasm in mice or 
rats. The observed hepatocellular and thyroid tumours in rodents are considered to be of limited 
relevance to humans. Repeated administration of darunavir to rats caused hepatic microsomal enzyme 
induction and increased thyroid hormone elimination, which predispose rats, but not humans, to 
thyroid neoplasms. At the highest tested doses, the systemic exposures (based on AUC) to darunavir 
were between 0.4- and 0.7-fold (mice) and 0.7- and 1-fold (rats), relative to those observed in humans 
at the recommended therapeutic doses.
After 2 years administration of darunavir at exposures at or below the human exposure, kidney 
changes were observed in mice (nephrosis) and rats (chronic progressive nephropathy).
Darunavir was not mutagenic or genotoxic in a battery of in vitro and in vivo assays including 
bacterial reverse mutation (Ames), chromosomal aberration in human lymphocytes and in vivo
micronucleus test in mice.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Tablet core:
Cellulose, microcrystalline
Crospovidone
Hydroxypropylcellulose
Silica, colloidal anhydrous
Silicified microcrystalline cellulose (Cellulose, microcrystalline; Silica, colloidal anhydrous)
Magnesium stearate (E470b)
Film coating:
37
Poly(vinyl alcohol)
Macrogol
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Talc (E553b)
Iron oxide, yellow (E172) – only for 400 mg film-coated tablets
Iron oxide, red (E172)
6.2
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3
Shelf life
3 years
Shelf life after first opening: 3 months.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
For storage conditions after first opening of the medicinal product, see section 6.3.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
400 mg film-coated tablets:
Bottle (HDPE), child resistant tamper evident PP closure with a desiccant:
-
-
-
-
30 tablets: 1 bottle of 30 film-coated tablets,
60 tablets: 2 bottles of 30 film-coated tablets,
90 tablets: 3 bottles of 30 film-coated tablets,
180 tablets: 6 bottles of 30 film-coated tablets.
800 mg film-coated tablets:
Bottle (HDPE), child resistant tamper evident PP closure with a desiccant:
-
-
30 tablets: 1 bottle of 30 film-coated tablets,
90 tablets. 3 bottles of 30 film-coated tablets.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal
No special requirements for disposal.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto, Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
400 mg film-coated tablets:
30 film-coated tablets: EU/1/17/1249/001
60 film-coated tablets: EU/1/17/1249/002
90 film-coated tablets: EU/1/17/1249/003
180 film-coated tablets: EU/1/17/1249/004
38
800 mg film-coated tablets:
30 film-coated tablets: EU/1/17/1249/009
90 film-coated tablets: EU/1/17/1249/010
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 26 January 2018
Date of latest renewal: 9 November 2022
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
39
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Darunavir Krka 600 mg film-coated tablets
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each film-coated tablet contains 600 mg darunavir.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Film-coated tablet (tablet)
Orangish brown, oval, biconvex film-coated tablets, engraved with a mark S2 on one side. Tablet 
dimension: 19.5 x 10 mm.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Darunavir Krka, co-administered with low dose ritonavir is indicated in combination with other 
antiretroviral medicinal products for the treatment of patients with human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV-1) infection (see section 4.2).
Darunavir Krka 600 mg tablets may be used to provide suitable dose regimens (see section 4.2):
For the treatment of HIV-1 infection in antiretroviral treatment (ART)-experienced adult 

patients, including those that have been highly pre-treated.
For the treatment of HIV-1 infection in paediatric patients from the age of 3 years and at least 
15 kg body weight.

In deciding to initiate treatment with darunavir co-administered with low dose ritonavir, careful 
consideration should be given to the treatment history of the individual patient and the patterns of 
mutations associated with different agents. Genotypic or phenotypic testing (when available) and 
treatment history should guide the use of darunavir (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1).
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Therapy should be initiated by a healthcare provider experienced in the management of HIV infection. 
After therapy with darunavir has been initiated, patients should be advised not to alter the dose, dose 
form or discontinue therapy without discussing with their healthcare provider.
Posology
Darunavir must always be given orally with low dose ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic enhancer and in 
combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products. The Summary of Product Characteristics of 
ritonavir must, therefore, be consulted prior to initiation of therapy with darunavir.
Darunavir Krka 600 mg film coated tablets must not be chewed or crushed. This strength is not 
suitable for doses below 600 mg. It is not possible to administer all paediatric doses with this product. 
Other tablet strengths and formulations of darunavir are available.
ART-experienced adult patients
The recommended dose regimen is 600 mg twice daily taken with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily taken 
40
with food. Darunavir Krka 600 mg tablets can be used to construct the twice daily 600 mg regimen.
ART-naïve adult patients
For dose recommendations in ART-naïve patients see the Summary of Product Characteristics for 
Darunavir Krka 400 mg and 800 mg tablets.
ART-naïve paediatric patients (3 to 17 years of age and weighing at least 15 kg)
The weight-based dose of darunavir and ritonavir in paediatric patients is provided in the table below.
Table 1. Recommended dose for treatment-naïve paediatric patients (3 to 17 years) with 
darunavir and ritonavira
Body weight (kg)
Dose (once daily with food)
≥ 15 kg to < 30 kg
≥ 30 kg to < 40 kg
≥ 40 kg
a ritonavir oral solution: 80 mg/ml
600 mg darunavir/100 mg ritonavir once daily
675 mg darunavir/100 mg ritonavir once daily
800 mg darunavir/100 mg ritonavir once daily
ART-experienced paediatric patients (3 to 17 years of age and weighing at least 15 kg)
Darunavir twice daily taken with ritonavir taken with food is usually recommended.
A once daily dose regimen of darunavir taken with ritonavir taken with food may be used in patients 
with prior exposure to antiretroviral medicinal products but without darunavir resistance associated 
mutations (DRV-RAMs)* and who have plasma HIV-1 RNA < 100 000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell 
count ≥ 100 cells x 106/L.
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V
The recommended dose of darunavir with low dose ritonavir for paediatric patients is based on body 
weight and should not exceed the recommended adult dose (600/100 mg twice daily or 800/100 mg 
once daily).
Table 2. Recommended dose for treatment-experienced paediatric patients (3 to 17 years) with
darunavir and ritonavira
Body weight (kg)
Dose (once daily with food)
600 mg darunavir/100 mg ritonavir 
once daily
Dose(twice daily with food)
375 mg darunavir /50 mg ritonavir 
twice daily
675 mg darunavir /100 mg ritonavir 
once daily
450 mg darunavir /60 mg ritonavir 
twice daily
800 mg darunavir /100 mg ritonavir 
once daily
600 mg darunavir /100 mg ritonavir 
twice daily
a with ritonavir oral solution: 80 mg/ml
For ART-experienced paediatric patients HIV genotypic testing is recommended. However, when HIV 
genotypic testing is not feasible, the darunavir/ritonavir once daily dosing regimen is recommended in 
HIV protease inhibitor-naïve paediatric patients and the twice daily dosing regimen is recommended 
in HIV protease inhibitor-experienced patients.
Advice on missed doses
In case a dose of darunavir and/or ritonavir is missed within 6 hours of the time it is usually taken, 
patients should be instructed to take the prescribed dose of darunavir and ritonavir with food as soon 
as possible. If this is noticed later than 6 hours after the time it is usually taken, the missed dose should 
not be taken and the patient should resume the usual dosing schedule.
This guidance is based on the 15 hour half-life of darunavir in the presence of ritonavir and the 
recommended dosing interval of approximately 12 hours.
41
≥ 15 kg–< 30 kg
≥ 30 kg–< 40 kg
≥ 40 kg
If a patient vomits within 4 hours of taking the medicinal product, another dose of darunavir with
ritonavir should be taken with food as soon as possible. If a patient vomits more than 4 hours after 
taking the medicinal product, the patient does not need to take another dose of darunavir with ritonavir 
until the next regularly scheduled time.
Special populations
Elderly
Limited information is available in this population, and therefore, darunavir should be used with
caution in this age group (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).
Hepatic impairment
Darunavir is metabolised by the hepatic system. No dose adjustment is recommended in patients with 
mild (Child-Pugh Class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment, however, darunavir 
should be used with caution in these patients. No pharmacokinetic data are available in patients with 
severe hepatic impairment. Severe hepatic impairment could result in an increase of darunavir 
exposure and a worsening of its safety profile. Therefore, darunavir must not be used in patients with 
severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.2).
Renal impairment
No dose adjustment is required in patients with renal impairment (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).
Paediatric population
Darunavir/ritonavir should not be used in children with a body weight of less than 15 kg as the dose 
for this population has not been established in a sufficient number of patients (see section 5.1). 
Darunavir/ritonavir should not be used in children below 3 years of age because of safety concerns
(see sections 4.4 and 5.3). 
The weight-based dose regimen for darunavir and ritonavir is provided in the tables above.
Pregnancy and postpartum
No dose adjustment is required for darunavir/ritonavir during pregnancy and postpartum. 
Darunavir/ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential 
risk (see sections 4.4, 4.6 and 5.2).
Method of administration
Patients should be instructed to take darunavir with low dose ritonavir within 30 minutes after
completion of a meal. The type of food does not affect the exposure to darunavir (see sections 4.4, 4.5 
and 5.2).
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Patients with severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment.
Combination of rifampicin with darunavir with concomitant low dose ritonavir (see section 4.5).
Co-administration with the combination product lopinavir/ritonavir (see section 4.5).
Co-administration with herbal preparations containing St John's wort (Hypericum perforatum) (see 
section 4.5).
Co-administration of darunavir with low dose ritonavir, with active substances that are highly 
dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with
serious and/or life-threatening events. These active substances include e.g.:
42















alfuzosin 
amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine, quinidine, ranolazine 
astemizole, terfenadine 
colchicine when used in patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment (see section 4.5)
ergot derivatives (e.g. dihydroergotamine, ergometrine, ergotamine, methylergonovine)
elbasvir/grazoprevir 
cisapride 
dapoxetine
domperidone
naloxegol
lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapine, sertindole (see section 4.5)
triazolam, midazolam administered orally (for caution on parenterally administered midazolam, 
see section 4.5)
sildenafil - when used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, avanafil 
simvastatin, lovastatin and lomitapide (see section 4.5)
ticagrelor (see section 4.5).
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Regular assessment of virological response is advised. In the setting of lack or loss of virological 
response, resistance testing should be performed.
Darunavir must always be given orally with low dose ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic enhancer and in 
combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products (see section 5.2). The Summary of Product 
Characteristics of ritonavir as appropriate, must therefore be consulted prior to initiation of therapy 
with darunavir.
Increasing the dose of ritonavir from that recommended in section 4.2 did not significantly affect 
darunavir concentrations. It is not recommended to alter the dose of ritonavir.
Darunavir binds predominantly to α1-acid glycoprotein. This protein binding is concentration-
dependent indicative for saturation of binding. Therefore, protein displacement of medicinal products 
highly bound to α1-acid glycoprotein cannot be ruled out (see section 4.5).
ART-experienced patients – once daily dosing
Darunavir used in combination with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir once daily in ART-experienced 
patients should not be used in patients with one or more darunavir resistance associated mutations 
(DRV-RAMs) or HIV-1 RNA ≥ 100 000 copies/ml or CD4+ cell count < 100 cells x 106/L (see 
section 4.2). Combinations with optimised background regimen (OBRs) other than ≥ 2 NRTIs have 
not been studied in this population. Limited data are available in patients with HIV-1 clades other than 
B (see section 5.1).
Paediatric population
Darunavir is not recommended for use in paediatric patients below 3 years of age or less than 15 kg 
body weight (see sections 4.2 and 5.3).
Pregnancy
Darunavir/ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential
risk. Caution should be used in pregnant women with concomitant medicinal products which may 
further decrease darunavir exposure (see sections 4.5 and 5.2).
Elderly
43
As limited information is available on the use of darunavir in patients aged 65 and over, caution 
should be exercised in the administration of darunavir in elderly patients, reflecting the greater
frequency of decreased hepatic function and of concomitant disease or other therapy (see sections 4.2 
and 5.2).
Severe skin reactions
During the darunavir/ritonavir clinical development program (N=3 063), severe skin reactions, which 
may be accompanied with fever and/or elevations of transaminases, have been reported in 0.4% of 
patients. DRESS (Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms) and Stevens-Johnson 
Syndrome has been rarely (< 0.1%) reported, and during post-marketing experience toxic epidermal 
necrolysis and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis have been reported. Darunavir should be 
discontinued immediately if signs or symptoms of severe skin reactions develop. These can include, 
but are not limited to, severe rash or rash accompanied by fever, general malaise, fatigue, muscle or 
joint aches, blisters, oral lesions, conjunctivitis, hepatitis and/or eosinophilia.
Rash occurred more commonly in treatment-experienced patients receiving regimens containing 
darunavir/ritonavir + raltegravir compared to patients receiving darunavir/ritonavir without raltegravir 
or raltegravir without darunavir (see section 4.8).
Darunavir contains a sulphonamide moiety. Darunavir should be used with caution in patients with a 
known sulphonamide allergy.
Hepatotoxicity
Drug-induced hepatitis (e.g. acute hepatitis, cytolytic hepatitis) has been reported with darunavir. 
During the darunavir/ritonavir clinical development program (N=3 063), hepatitis was reported in 
0.5% of patients receiving combination antiretroviral therapy with darunavir/ritonavir. Patients with 
pre-existing liver dysfunction, including chronic active hepatitis B or C, have an increased risk for 
liver function abnormalities including severe and potentially fatal hepatic adverse reactions. In case of 
concomitant antiviral therapy for hepatitis B or C, please refer to the relevant product information for 
these medicinal products.
Appropriate laboratory testing should be conducted prior to initiating therapy with darunavir/ritonavir 
and patients should be monitored during treatment. Increased AST/ALT monitoring should be 
considered in patients with underlying chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, or in patients who have pre-
treatment elevations of transaminases, especially during the first several months of darunavir/ritonavir 
treatment.
If there is evidence of new or worsening liver dysfunction (including clinically significant elevation of 
liver enzymes and/or symptoms such as fatigue, anorexia, nausea, jaundice, dark urine, liver 
tenderness, hepatomegaly) in patients using darunavir/ritonavir, interruption or discontinuation of 
treatment should be considered promptly.
Patients with coexisting conditions
Hepatic impairment
The safety and efficacy of darunavir have not been established in patients with severe underlying liver 
disorders and darunavir is therefore contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment. Due to 
an increase in the unbound darunavir plasma concentrations, darunavir should be used with caution in 
patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (see sections 4.2, 4.3 and 5.2).
Renal impairment
No special precautions or dose adjustments for darunavir/ritonavir are required in patients with renal
impairment. As darunavir and ritonavir are highly bound to plasma proteins, it is unlikely that they 
will be significantly removed by haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis. Therefore, no special 
precautions or dose adjustments are required in these patients (see sections 4.2 and 5.2).
44
Haemophiliac patients
There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin haematomas and 
haemarthrosis in patients with haemophilia type A and B treated with PIs. In some patients additional 
factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with PIs was continued or 
reintroduced if treatment had been discontinued. A causal relationship has been suggested, although 
the mechanism of action has not been elucidated. Haemophiliac patients should, therefore, be made 
aware of the possibility of increased bleeding.
Weight and metabolic parameters
An increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose may occur during antiretroviral 
therapy. Such changes may in part be linked to disease control and life style. For lipids, there is in 
some cases evidence for a treatment effect, while for weight gain there is no strong evidence relating 
this to any particular treatment. For monitoring of blood lipids and glucose reference is made to 
established HIV treatment guidelines. Lipid disorders should be managed as clinically appropriate.
Osteonecrosis
Although the aetiology is considered to be multifactorial (including corticosteroid use, alcohol 
consumption, severe immunosuppression, higher body mass index), cases of osteonecrosis have been 
reported particularly in patients with advanced HIV disease and/or long-term exposure to combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART). Patients should be advised to seek medical advice if they experience 
joint aches and pain, joint stiffness or difficulty in movement.
Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome
In HIV infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
pathogens may arise and cause serious clinical conditions, or aggravation of symptoms. Typically, 
such reactions have been observed within the first weeks or months of initiation of CART. Relevant 
examples are cytomegalovirus retinitis, generalised and/or focal mycobacterial infections and 
pneumonia caused by Pneumocystis jirovecii (formerly known as Pneumocystis carinii). Any 
inflammatory symptoms should be evaluated and treatment instituted when necessary. In addition, 
reactivation of herpes simplex and herpes zoster has been observed in clinical studies with darunavir
co-administered with low dose ritonavir.
Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have also been reported to 
occur in the setting of immune reactivation; however, the reported time to onset is more variable and 
these events can occur many months after initiation of treatment (see section 4.8).
Interactions with medicinal products
Several of the interaction studies have been performed with darunavir at lower than recommended 
doses. The effects on co-administered medicinal products may thus be underestimated and clinical 
monitoring of safety may be indicated. For full information on interactions with other medicinal 
products see section 4.5.
Efavirenz in combination with boosted darunavir once daily may result in sub-optimal darunavir Cmin. 
If efavirenz is to be used in combination with darunavir, the darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice 
daily regimen should be used (see section 4.5).
Life-threatening and fatal drug interactions have been reported in patients treated with colchicine and 
strong inhibitors of CYP3A and P-glycoprotein (P-gp; see sections 4.3 and 4.5).
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
Medicinal products that may be affected by darunavir boosted with ritonavir
45
Darunavir and ritonavir are inhibitors of CYP3A, CYP2D6 and P-gp. Co-administration of 
darunavir/ritonavir with medicinal products primarily metabolised by CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 or 
transported by P-gp may result in increased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which 
could increase or prolong their therapeutic effect and adverse reactions.
Co-administration of darunavir/ritonavir with drugs that have active metabolite(s) formed by CYP3A 
may result in reduced plasma concentrations of these active metabolite(s), potentially leading to loss 
of their therapeutic effect (see the Interaction table below).
Darunavir co-administered with low dose ritonavir must not be combined with medicinal products that 
are highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which increased systemic exposure is associated 
with serious and/or life-threatening events (narrow therapeutic index) (see section 4.3).
The overall pharmacokinetic enhancement effect by ritonavir was an approximate 14-fold increase in 
the systemic exposure of darunavir when a single dose of 600 mg darunavir was given orally in 
combination with ritonavir at 100 mg twice daily. Therefore, darunavir must only be used in
combination with low dose ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic enhancer (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).
A clinical study utilising a cocktail of medicinal products that are metabolised by cytochromes 
CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 demonstrated an increase in CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 activity and 
inhibition of CYP2D6 activity in the presence of darunavir/ritonavir, which may be attributed to the 
presence of low dose ritonavir. Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir with medicinal products 
which are primarily metabolised by CYP2D6 (such as flecainide, propafenone, metoprolol) may result 
in increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal products, which could increase or prolong their 
therapeutic effect and adverse reactions. Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir with medicinal 
products primarily metabolised by CYP2C9 (such as warfarin) and CYP2C19 (such as methadone) 
may result in decreased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which could decrease or 
shorten their therapeutic effect.
Although the effect on CYP2C8 has only been studied in vitro, co-administration of darunavir and 
ritonavir and medicinal products primarily metabolised by CYP2C8 (such as paclitaxel, rosiglitazone, 
repaglinide) may result in decreased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which could 
decrease or shorten their therapeutic effect.
Ritonavir inhibits the transporters P-glycoprotein, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3, and co-administration 
with substrates of these transporters can result in increased plasma concentrations of these compounds 
(e.g. dabigatran etexilate, digoxin, statins and bosentan; see the Interaction table below).
Medicinal products that affect darunavir/ritonavir exposure
Darunavir and ritonavir are metabolised by CYP3A. Medicinal products that induce CYP3A activity 
would be expected to increase the clearance of darunavir and ritonavir, resulting in lowered plasma 
concentrations of darunavir and ritonavir (e.g. rifampicin, St John's wort, lopinavir). Co-administration 
of darunavir and ritonavir and other medicinal products that inhibit CYP3A may decrease the 
clearance of darunavir and ritonavir and may result in increased plasma concentrations of darunavir 
and ritonavir (e.g. indinavir, azole antifungals like clotrimazole). These interactions are described in 
the interaction table below.
Interaction table
Interactions between darunavir/ritonavir and antiretroviral and non-antiretroviral medicinal products
are listed in the table below. The direction of the arrow for each pharmacokinetic parameter is based 
on the 90% confidence interval of the geometric mean ratio being within (↔), below (↓) or above (↑) 
the 80-125% range (not determined as “ND”).
Several of the interaction studies (indicated by # in the table below) have been performed at lower than 
46
recommended doses of darunavir or with a different dosing regimen (see section 4.2 Posology). The 
effects on co-administered medicinal products may thus be underestimated and clinical monitoring of 
safety may be indicated.
The below list of examples of drug-drug interactions is not comprehensive and therefore the label of 
each drug that is co-administered with darunavir should be consulted for information related to the 
route of metabolism, interaction pathways, potential risks, and specific actions to be taken with 
regards to co-administration.
Table 3. Interactions and dose recommendations with other medicinal products
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
Interaction 
Geometric mean change (%) 
Recommendations concerning co-
administration 
HIV ANTIRETROVIRALS 
Integrase strand transfer inhibitors
Dolutegravir
Raltegravir
dolutegravir AUC ↓ 22%
dolutegravir C24h ↓38%
dolutegravir Cmax ↓ 11%
darunavir ↔*
* Using cross-study comparisons to historical 
pharmacokinetic data
Some clinical studies suggest raltegravir 
may cause a modest decrease in darunavir 
plasma concentrations.
Nucleo(s/t)ide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs)
Didanosine
400 mg once daily
Tenofovir disoproxil
245 mg once daily
didanosine AUC ↓ 9%
didanosine Cmin ND
didanosine Cmax ↓ 16%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↔
darunavir Cmax ↔
tenofovir AUC ↑ 22%
tenofovir Cmin ↑ 37%
tenofovir Cmax ↑ 24%
#darunavir AUC ↑ 21%
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 24%
#darunavir Cmax ↑ 16%
(↑ tenofovir from effect on MDR-1 
transport in the renal tubules)
Emtricitabine/tenofovir 
alafenamide 
Tenofovir alafenamide ↔
Tenofovir ↑
Abacavir
Emtricitabine
Lamivudine
Stavudine
Zidovudine
Not studied. Based on the different 
elimination pathways of the other NRTIs 
zidovudine, emtricitabine, stavudine, 
lamivudine, that are primarily renally 
excreted, and abacavir for which 
metabolism is not mediated by CYP450, 
no interactions are expected for these 
medicinal compounds and darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir.
47
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and dolutegravir can 
be used without dose adjustment.
At present the effect of raltegravir on 
darunavir plasma concentrations does 
not appear to be clinically relevant. 
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and raltegravir can be 
used without dose adjustments.
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and didanosine can be 
used without dose adjustments.
Didanosine is to be administered on 
an empty stomach, thus it should be 
administered 1 hour before or 
2 hours after darunavir/ritonavir 
given with food.
Monitoring of renal function may be 
indicated when darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir 
is given in combination with 
tenofovir disoproxil, particularly in 
patients with underlying systemic or 
renal disease, or in patients taking 
nephrotoxic agents.
The recommended dose of 
emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide 
is 200/10 mg once daily when used 
with darunavir with low dose 
ritonavir.
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir can be used with these 
NRTIs without dose adjustment.
Non-nucleo(s/t)ide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs)
Efavirenz
600 mg once daily
efavirenz AUC ↑ 21%
efavirenz Cmin ↑ 17%
efavirenz Cmax ↑ 15%
#darunavir AUC ↓ 13%
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 31%
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 15%
(↑ efavirenz from CYP3A inhibition)
(↓ darunavir from CYP3A induction)
Etravirine
100 mg twice daily
Nevirapine
200 mg twice daily
Rilpivirine
150 mg once daily
etravirine AUC ↓ 37%
etravirine Cmin ↓ 49%
etravirine Cmax ↓ 32%
darunavir AUC ↑ 15%
darunavir Cmin ↔
darunavir Cmax ↔
nevirapine AUC ↑ 27%
nevirapine Cmin ↑ 47%
nevirapine Cmax ↑ 18%
#darunavir: concentrations were consistent 
with historical data
(↑ nevirapine from CYP3A inhibition)
rilpivirine AUC ↑ 130%
rilpivirine Cmin ↑ 178%
rilpivirine Cmax ↑ 79%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↓ 11%
darunavir Cmax ↔
Clinical monitoring for central 
nervous system toxicity associated 
with increased exposure to efavirenz 
may be indicated when darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir 
is given in combination with 
efavirenz.
Efavirenz in combination with 
darunavir /ritonavir 800/100 mg once 
daily may result in sub-optimal 
darunavir Cmin. If efavirenz is to be 
used in combination with darunavir
/ritonavir, the darunavir/ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice daily regimen 
should be used (see section 4.4).
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and etravirine 200 mg 
twice daily can be used without dose 
adjustments.
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and nevirapine can be 
used without dose adjustments.
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and rilpivirine can be 
used without dose adjustments.
HIV Protease inhibitors (PIs) - without additional co-administration of low dose ritonavir† 
Atazanavir
300 mg once daily
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and atazanavir can be 
used without dose adjustments.
atazanavir AUC ↔
atazanavir Cmin ↑ 52%
atazanavir Cmax ↓ 11%
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
Atazanavir: comparison of 
atazanavir/ritonavir 300/100 mg once daily 
vs. atazanavir 300 mg once daily in 
combination with darunavir/ritonavir 
400/100 mg twice daily.
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice daily 
vs. darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice 
daily in combination with atazanavir 
300 mg once daily.
indinavir AUC ↑ 23%
indinavir Cmin ↑ 125%
indinavir Cmax ↔
#darunavir AUC ↑ 24%
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 44%
#darunavir Cmax ↑ 11%
Indinavir: comparison of 
indinavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg twice daily 
vs. indinavir/darunavir/ritonavir 
48
Indinavir
800 mg twice daily
When used in combination with 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir, dose adjustment of 
indinavir from 800 mg twice daily to 
600 mg twice daily may be 
warranted in case of intolerance.
Saquinavir
1 000 mg twice daily
800/400/100 mg twice daily.
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice daily 
vs. darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg in 
combination with indinavir 800 mg twice 
daily.
#darunavir AUC ↓ 26%
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 42%
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 17%
saquinavir AUC ↓ 6%
saquinavir Cmin ↓ 18%
saquinavir Cmax ↓ 6%
Saquinavir: comparison of 
saquinavir/ritonavir 1 000/100 mg twice 
daily vs. saquinavir/darunavir/ritonavir 
1 000/400/100 mg twice daily
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice daily 
vs. darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg in 
combination with saquinavir 1 000 mg 
twice daily.
It is not recommended to combine 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir with saquinavir.
HIV Protease inhibitors (PIs) - with co-administration of low dose ritonavir† 
Lopinavir/ritonavir
400/100 mg twice daily
Lopinavir/ritonavir
533/133.3 mg twice daily
CCR5 ANTAGONIST 
Maraviroc
150 mg twice daily
lopinavir AUC ↑ 9%
lopinavir Cmin ↑ 23%
lopinavir Cmax ↓ 2%
darunavir AUC ↓ 38%‡
darunavir Cmin ↓ 51%‡
darunavir Cmax ↓ 21%‡
lopinavir AUC ↔
lopinavir Cmin ↑ 13%
lopinavir Cmax ↑ 11%
darunavir AUC ↓ 41%
darunavir Cmin ↓ 55%
darunavir Cmax ↓ 21%
‡ based upon non dose normalised values
Due to a decrease in the exposure 
(AUC) of darunavir by 40%, 
appropriate doses of the combination 
have not been established. Hence, 
concomitant use of darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir 
and the combination product 
lopinavir/ritonavir is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3).
maraviroc AUC ↑ 305%
maraviroc Cmin ND
maraviroc Cmax ↑ 129%
darunavir, ritonavir concentrations were 
consistent with historical data
The maraviroc dose should be 
150 mg twice daily when co-
administered with darunavir with low 
dose ritonavir.
α1-ADRENORECEPTOR ANTAGONIST 
Alfuzosin
Based on theoretical considerations 
darunavir is expected to increase alfuzosin 
plasma concentrations.
(CYP3A inhibition)
ANAESTHETIC 
Alfentanil
Not studied. The metabolism of alfentanil 
is mediated via CYP3A, and may as such 
be inhibited by darunavir co-administered 
with low dose ritonavir.
ANTIANGINA/ANTIARRHYTHMIC 
Disopyramide
Flecainide
Lidocaine (systemic)
Mexiletine
Propafenone
Not studied. Darunavir is expected to 
increase these antiarrhythmic plasma 
concentrations.
(CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 inhibition)
49
Co-administration of darunavir with 
low dose ritonavir and alfuzosin is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
The concomitant use with darunavir
and low dose ritonavir may require to 
lower the dose of alfentanil and 
requires monitoring for risks of 
prolonged or delayed respiratory 
depression.
Caution is warranted and therapeutic 
concentration monitoring, if 
available, is recommended for these 
antiarrhythmics when co-
administered with darunavir with low 
Amiodarone
Bepridil
Dronedarone
Ivabradine
Quinidine
Ranolazine
Digoxin
0.4 mg single dose
ANTIBIOTIC 
Clarithromycin
500 mg twice daily
digoxin AUC ↑ 61%
digoxin Cmin ND
digoxin Cmax ↑ 29%
(↑ digoxin from probable inhibition of P-
gp)
clarithromycin AUC ↑ 57%
clarithromycin Cmin ↑ 174%
clarithromycin Cmax ↑ 26%
#darunavir AUC ↓ 13%
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 1%
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 17%
14-OH-clarithromycin concentrations were 
not detectable when combined with 
darunavir/ritonavir.
(↑ clarithromycin from CYP3A inhibition 
and possible P-gp inhibition)
ANTICOAGULANT/PLATELET AGGREGATION INHIBITOR
Apixaban
Rivaroxaban
Dabigatran etexilate
Edoxaban
Ticagrelor
Clopidogrel
Not studied. Co-administration of boosted 
darunavir with these anticoagulants may 
increase concentrations of the 
anticoagulant.
(CYP3A and/or P-gp inhibition).
dabigatran etexilate (150 mg):
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg single 
dose:
dabigatran AUC ↑ 72%
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 64%
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily:
dabigatran AUC ↑ 18%
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 22%
Based on theoretical considerations, 
co-administration of boosted darunavir 
with ticagrelor may increase 
concentrations of ticagrelor (CYP3A 
and/or P-glycoprotein inhibition).
Not studied. Co-administration of 
clopidogrel with boosted darunavir is 
expected to decrease clopidogrel active 
metabolite plasma concentration, which 
may reduce the antiplatelet activity of 
clopidogrel.
50
dose ritonavir.
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and amiodarone, 
bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine,
quinidine, or ranolazine is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Given that digoxin has a narrow 
therapeutic index, it is recommended 
that the lowest possible dose of 
digoxin should initially be prescribed 
in case digoxin is given to patients on 
darunavir/ritonavir therapy. The 
digoxin dose should be carefully 
titrated to obtain the desired clinical 
effect while assessing the overall 
clinical state of the subject.
Caution should be exercised when 
clarithromycin is combined with 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir.
For patients with renal impairment 
the Summary of Product 
Characteristics for clarithromycin 
should be consulted for the 
recommended dose.
The use of boosted darunavir with a 
direct oral anticoagulant (DOAC) 
that is metabolised by CYP3A4 and 
transported by P-gp is not 
recommended as this may lead to an 
increased bleeding risk.
Darunavir/ritonavir:
Clinical monitoring and/or dose 
reduction of the DOAC should be 
considered when a DOAC 
transported by P-gp but not 
metabolised by CYP3A4, including 
dabigatran etexilate and edoxaban, is 
co-administered with darunavir/rtv.
Concomitant administration of 
boosted darunavir with ticagrelor is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Co-administration of clopidogrel 
with boosted darunavir is not 
recommended. Use of other 
antiplatelets not affected by CYP 
inhibition or induction (e.g. 
Warfarin
Not studied. Warfarin concentrations may 
be affected when co-administered with 
darunavir with low dose ritonavir.
ANTICONVULSANTS 
Phenobarbital
Phenytoin
Carbamazepine
200 mg twice daily
Not studied. Phenobarbital and phenytoin 
are expected to decrease plasma 
concentrations of darunavir and its 
pharmacoenhancer.
(induction of CYP450 enzymes)
carbamazepine AUC ↑ 45%
carbamazepine Cmin ↑ 54%
carbamazepine Cmax ↑ 43%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↓ 15%
darunavir Cmax ↔
Not studied. Co-administration of boosted 
darunavir with clonazepam may increase 
concentrations of clonazepam. (CYP3A 
inhibition)
paroxetine AUC ↓ 39%
paroxetine Cmin ↓ 37%
paroxetine Cmax ↓ 36%
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
sertraline AUC ↓ 49%
sertraline Cmin ↓ 49%
sertraline Cmax ↓ 44%
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 6%
#darunavir Cmax ↔
Concomitant use of darunavir co-
administered wirth low dose ritonavir and 
these antidepressants may increase 
concentrations of the antidepressant.
(CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A inhibition).
Clonazepam
ANTIDEPRESSANTS 
Paroxetine
20 mg once daily
Sertraline
50 mg once daily
Amitriptyline
Desipramine
Imipramine
Nortriptyline
Trazodone
ANTIEMETICS
Domperidone
prasugrel) is recommended.
It is recommended that the 
international normalised ratio (INR) 
be monitored when warfarin is 
combined with darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir.
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir should not be used in 
combination with these medicines.
No dose adjustment for darunavir
/ritonavir is recommended. If there is 
a need to combine 
darunavir/ritonavir and 
carbamazepine, patients should be 
monitored for potential 
carbamazepine-related adverse 
events. Carbamazepine 
concentrations should be monitored 
and its dose should be titrated for 
adequate response. Based upon the 
findings, the carbamazepine dose 
may need to be reduced by 25% to 
50% in the presence of 
darunavir/ritonavir.
Clinical monitoring is recommended 
when co-administering boosted
darunavir with clonazepam.
If antidepressants are co-
administered with darunavir with low 
dose ritonavir, the recommended 
approach is a dose titration of the 
antidepressant based on a clinical 
assessment of antidepressant 
response. In addition, patients on a 
stable dose of these antidepressants 
who start treatment with darunavir
with low dose ritonavir should be 
monitored for antidepressant 
response.
Clinical monitoring is recommended 
when co-administering darunavir
with low dose ritonavir with these 
antidepressants and a dose 
adjustment of the antidepressant may 
be needed.
Not studied. 
51
Co-administration of domperidone 
with boosted darunavir is 
contraindicated. 
ANTIFUNGALS 
Voriconazole
Fluconazole
Isavuconazole
Itraconazole
Posaconazole
Clotrimazole
ANTIGOUT MEDICINES 
Colchicine
ANTIMALARIALS 
Artemether/Lumefantrine
80/480 mg, 6 doses at 0, 8, 
24, 36, 48, and 60 hours
Voriconazole should not be 
combined with darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir 
unless an assessment of the 
benefit/risk ratio justifies the use of 
voriconazole.
Caution is warranted and clinical 
monitoring is recommended. When 
co-administration is required the 
daily dose of itraconazole should not 
exceed 200 mg.
A reduction in colchicine dose or an 
interruption of colchicine treatment 
is recommended in patients with 
normal renal or hepatic function if 
treatment with darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir 
is required. For patients with renal or 
hepatic impairment colchicine with 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir is contraindicated (see 
sections 4.3 and 4.4).
The combination of darunavir and 
artemether/lumefantrine can be used 
without dose adjustments; however, 
due to the increase in lumefantrine 
exposure, the combination should be 
used with caution.
Not studied. Ritonavir may decrease 
plasma concentrations of voriconazole.
(induction of CYP450 enzymes)
Not studied. Darunavir may increase 
antifungal plasma concentrations and 
posaconazole, isavuconazole, itraconazole, 
or fluconazole may increase darunavir 
concentrations.
(CYP3A and/or P-gp inhibition)
Not studied. Concomitant systemic use of 
clotrimazole and darunavir 
co-administered with low dose ritonavir 
may increase plasma concentrations of 
darunavir and/or clotrimazole.
darunavir AUC24h ↑ 33% (based on 
population pharmacokinetic model)
Not studied. Concomitant use of colchicine 
and darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir may increase the exposure 
to colchicine.
(CYP3A and/ or P-gp inhibition)
artemether AUC ↓ 16%
artemether Cmin ↔
artemether Cmax ↓ 18%
dihydroartemisinin AUC ↓ 18%
dihydroartemisinin Cmin ↔
dihydroartemisinin Cmax ↓ 18%
lumefantrine AUC ↑ 175%
lumefantrine Cmin ↑ 126%
lumefantrine Cmax ↑ 65%
darunavir AUC ↔
darunavir Cmin ↓ 13%
darunavir Cmax ↔
ANTIMYCOBACTERIALS 
Rifampicin
Rifapentine
Rifabutin
150 mg once every other day
Not studied. Rifapentine and rifampicin 
are strong CYP3A inducers and have been 
shown to cause profound decreases in 
concentrations of other protease inhibitors, 
which can result in virological failure and 
resistance development (CYP450 enzyme 
induction). During attempts to overcome 
the decreased exposure by increasing the 
dose of other protease inhibitors with low 
dose ritonavir, a high frequency of liver 
reactions was seen with rifampicin.
rifabutin AUC** ↑ 55%
rifabutin Cmin
** ↑ ND
52
The combination of rifapentine and 
darunavir with concomitant low dose 
ritonavir is not recommended.
The combination of rifampicin and 
darunavir with concomitant low dose 
ritonavir is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).
A dose reduction of rifabutin by 75% 
of the usual dose of 300 mg/day (i.e. 
** ↔
rifabutin Cmax
darunavir AUC ↑ 53%
darunavir Cmin ↑ 68%
darunavir Cmax ↑ 39%
** sum of active moieties of rifabutin 
(parent drug + 25-O-desacetyl metabolite)
The interaction study showed a 
comparable daily systemic exposure for 
rifabutin between treatment at 300 mg 
once daily alone and 150 mg once every 
other day in combination with 
darunavir/ritonavir (600/100 mg twice 
daily) with an about 10-fold increase in the 
daily exposure to the active metabolite 25-
O-desacetylrifabutin. Furthermore, AUC 
of the sum of active moieties of rifabutin 
(parent drug + 25-O-desacetyl metabolite) 
was increased 1.6-fold, while Cmax
remained comparable.
Data on comparison with a 150 mg once 
daily reference dose is lacking.
(Rifabutin is an inducer and substrate of 
CYP3A.) An increase of systemic 
exposure to darunavir was observed when 
darunavir co-administered with 100 mg 
ritonavir was co-administered with 
rifabutin (150 mg once every other day).
rifabutin 150 mg once every other 
day) and increased monitoring for 
rifabutin related adverse events is 
warranted in patients receiving the 
combination with darunavir
co-administered with ritonavir. In 
case of safety issues, a further 
increase of the dosing interval for 
rifabutin and/or monitoring of 
rifabutin levels should be considered.
Consideration should be given to 
official guidance on the appropriate 
treatment of tuberculosis in HIV 
infected patients.
Based upon the safety profile of 
darunavir/ritonavir, the increase in 
darunavir exposure in the presence of 
rifabutin does not warrant a dose 
adjustment for darunavir/ritonavir.
Based on pharmacokinetic modeling, 
this dose reduction of 75% is also 
applicable if patients receive 
rifabutin at doses other than 
300 mg/day.
ANTINEOPLASTICS 
Dasatinib
Nilotinib
Vinblastine
Vincristine
Not studied. Darunavir is expected to 
increase these antineoplastic plasma 
concentrations.
(CYP3A inhibition)
Everolimus
Irinotecan
ANTIPSYCHOTICS/NEUROLEPTICS 
Quetiapine
Not studied. Darunavir is expected to 
increase these antipsychotic plasma 
concentrations.
(CYP3A inhibition)
Perphenazine
Risperidone
Thioridazine
Lurasidone
Pimozide
Sertindole
β-BLOCKERS 
Not studied. Darunavir is expected to 
increase these antipsychotic plasma 
concentrations.
(CYP3A, CYP2D6 and/or P-gp inhibition)
53
Concentrations of these medicinal 
products may be increased when co-
administered with darunavir with low 
dose ritonavir resulting in the 
potential for increased adverse events 
usually associated with these agents.
Caution should be exercised when 
combining one of these 
antineoplastic agents with darunavir
with low dose ritonavir.
Concomitant use of everolimus or 
irinotecan and darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir 
is not recommended.
Concomitant administration of 
darunavir with low dose ritonavir and 
quetiapine is contraindicated as it 
may increase quetiapine-related 
toxicity. Increased concentrations of 
quetiapine may lead to coma (see 
section 4.3).
A dose decrease may be needed for 
these drugs when co-administered 
with darunavir co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir.
Concomitant administration of 
darunavir with low dose ritonavir and 
lurasidone, pimozide or sertindole is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Carvedilol
Metoprolol
Timolol
Not studied. Darunavir is expected to 
increase these β-blocker plasma 
concentrations.
(CYP2D6 inhibition)
Clinical monitoring is recommended 
when co-administering darunavir 
with β-blockers. A lower dose of the 
β-blocker should be considered.
CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS 
Amlodipine
Diltiazem
Felodipine
Nicardipine
Nifedipine
Verapamil
Not studied. Darunavir co-administered 
with low dose ritonavir can be expected to 
increase the plasma concentrations of 
calcium channel blockers.
(CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 inhibition)
Clinical monitoring of therapeutic 
and adverse reactions is 
recommended when these medicines 
are concomitantly administered with 
darunavir with low dose ritonavir.
CORTICOSTEROIDS 
Corticosteroids primarily 
metabolised by CYP3A 
(including betamethasone, 
budesonide, fluticasone, 
mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone)
Fluticasone: in a clinical study where 
ritonavir 100 mg capsules twice daily were 
co-administered with 50 μg intranasal 
fluticasone propionate (4 times daily) for 
7 days in healthy subjects, fluticasone 
propionate plasma concentrations 
increased significantly, whereas the 
intrinsic cortisol levels decreased by 
approximately 86% (90% CI 82-89%). 
Greater effects may be expected when 
fluticasone is inhaled. Systemic 
corticosteroid effects including Cushing's 
syndrome and adrenal suppression have 
been reported in patients receiving 
ritonavir and inhaled or intranasally 
administered fluticasone. The effects of 
high fluticasone systemic exposure on 
ritonavir plasma levels are unknown.
Other corticosteroids: interaction not 
studied. Plasma concentrations of these 
medicinal products may be increased when 
co-administered with darunavir with low 
dose ritonavir, resulting in reduced serum 
cortisol concentrations.
Concomitant use of darunavir with 
low dose ritonavir and 
corticosteroids (all routes of 
administration) that are metabolised 
by CYP3A may increase the risk of 
development of systemic 
corticosteroid effects, including 
Cushing's syndrome and adrenal 
suppression. 
Co-administration with CYP3A-
metabolised corticosteroids is not 
recommended unless the potential 
benefit to the patient outweighs the 
risk, in which case patients should be 
monitored for systemic corticosteroid 
effects.
Alternative corticosteroids which are 
less dependent on CYP3A 
metabolism e.g. beclomethasone 
should be considered, particularly for 
long term use.
Dexamethasone (systemic) Not studied. Dexamethasone may decrease 
plasma concentrations of darunavir.
(CYP3A induction)
ENDOTHELIN RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS 
Bosentan
Not studied. Concomitant use of bosentan 
and darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir may increase plasma
concentrations of bosentan.
Bosentan is expected to decrease plasma 
concentrations of darunavir and/or its 
pharmacoenhancer.
(CYP3A induction)
Systemic dexamethasone should be 
used with caution when combined 
with darunavir co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir.
When administered concomitantly 
with darunavir A and low dose 
ritonavir, the patient's tolerability of 
bosentan should be monitored.
HEPATITIS C VIRUS (HCV) DIRECT-ACTING ANTIVIRALS 
NS3-4A protease inhibitors
Elbasvir/grazoprevir
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir
Darunavir with low dose ritonavir may 
increase the exposure to grazoprevir.
(CYP3A and OATP1B inhibition)
Concomitant use of darunavir with 
low dose ritonavir and 
elbasvir/grazoprevir is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted darunavir may increase the 
exposure to glecaprevir and pibrentasvir.
It is not recommended to 
co-administer boosted darunavir with 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir.
54
HERBAL PRODUCTS 
St John's wort (Hypericum 
perforatum)
(P-gp, BCRP and/or OATP1B1/3 
inhibition)
Not studied. St John's wort is expected to 
decrease the plasma concentrations of 
darunavir and ritonavir.
(CYP450 induction)
HMG CO-A REDUCTASE INHIBITORS 
Lovastatin
Simvastatin
Not studied. Lovastatin and simvastatin are 
expected to have markedly increased 
plasma concentrations when co-
administered with darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir.
(CYP3A inhibition)
Atorvastatin
10 mg once daily
atorvastatin AUC ↑ 3-4 fold
atorvastatin Cmin ↑ ≈5.5-10 fold
atorvastatin Cmax ↑ ≈2 fold
#darunavir/ritonavir
Pravastatin
40 mg single dose
pravastatin AUC ↑ 81%¶
pravastatin Cmin ND
pravastatin Cmax ↑ 63%
¶ an up to five-fold increase was seen in a 
limited subset of subjects
Rosuvastatin
10 mg once daily
rosuvastatin AUC ↑ 48%║
rosuvastatin Cmax ↑ 144%║
║ based on published data with darunavir/ritonavir
OTHER LIPID MODIFYING AGENTS
Lomitapide
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted darunavir is expected to increase 
the exposure of lomitapide when co-
administered. 
(CYP3A inhibition)
H2-RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS 
Ranitidine
150 mg twice daily
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
55
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir must not be used 
concomitantly with products 
containing St John's wort 
(Hypericum perforatum) (see section 
4.3). If a patient is already taking St 
John's wort, stop St John's wort and 
if possible check viral levels. 
Darunavir exposure (and also 
ritonavir exposure) may increase on 
stopping St John's wort. The 
inducing effect may persist for at 
least 2 weeks after cessation of 
treatment with St John's wort.
Increased plasma concentrations of 
lovastatin or simvastatin may cause 
myopathy, including 
rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use of 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir with lovastatin and 
simvastatin is therefore 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
When administration of atorvastatin 
and darunavir co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir is desired, it is 
recommended to start with an 
atorvastatin dose of 10 mg once 
daily. A gradual dose increase of 
atorvastatin may be tailored to the 
clinical response.
When administration of pravastatin 
and darunavir co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir is required, it is 
recommended to start with the lowest 
possible dose of pravastatin and 
titrate up to the desired clinical effect 
while monitoring for safety.
When administration of rosuvastatin 
and darunavir co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir is required, it is 
recommended to start with the lowest 
possible dose of rosuvastatin and 
titrate up to the desired clinical effect 
while monitoring for safety.
Co-administration is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3).
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir can be co-administered 
with H2-receptor antagonists without 
dose adjustments.
IMMUNOSUPPRESSANTS
Ciclosporin
Sirolimus
Tacrolimus
Everolimus
Not studied. Exposure to these 
immunosuppressants will be increased 
when co-administered with darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir.
(CYP3A inhibition)
Therapeutic drug monitoring of the 
immunosuppressive agent must be 
done when co-administration occurs.
Concomitant use of everolimus and 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir is not recommended.
INHALED BETA AGONISTS 
Salmeterol
Not studied. Concomitant use of 
salmeterol and darunavir co-administered 
with low dose ritonavir may increase 
plasma concentrations of salmeterol.
Concomitant use of salmeterol and 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir is not recommended. 
The combination may result in 
increased risk of cardiovascular 
adverse event with salmeterol, 
including QT prolongation, 
palpitations and sinus tachycardia.
NARCOTIC ANALGESICS / TREATMENT OF OPIOID DEPENDENCE 
Methadone
individual dose ranging from 
55 mg to 150 mg once daily
R(-) methadone AUC ↓ 16%
R(-) methadone Cmin ↓ 15%
R(-) methadone Cmax ↓ 24%
No adjustment of methadone dose is 
required when initiating co-
administration with darunavir 
/ritonavir. However, increased 
methadone dose may be necessary 
when concomitantly administered for 
a longer period of time due to 
induction of metabolism by ritonavir. 
Therefore, clinical monitoring is 
recommended, as maintenance 
therapy may need to be adjusted in 
some patients.
Buprenorphine/naloxone
8/2 mg–16/4 mg once daily
Fentanyl
Oxycodone
Tramadol
buprenorphine AUC ↓ 11%
buprenorphine Cmin ↔
buprenorphine Cmax ↓ 8%
norbuprenorphine AUC ↑ 46%
norbuprenorphine Cmin ↑ 71%
norbuprenorphine Cmax ↑ 36%
naloxone AUC ↔
naloxone Cmin ND
naloxone Cmax ↔
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted darunavir may increase plasma 
concentrations of these analgesics.
(CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A inhibition)
The clinical relevance of the increase 
in norbuprenorphine 
pharmacokinetic parameters has not 
been established. Dose adjustment 
for buprenorphine may not be 
necessary when co-administered with 
darunavir/ritonavir but a careful 
clinical monitoring for signs of 
opiate toxicity is recommended.
Clinical monitoring is recommended 
when co-administering boosted 
darunavir with these analgesics.
OESTROGEN-BASED CONTRACEPTIVES 
Drospirenone 
Ethinylestradiol 
(3 mg/0.02 mg once daily)
Not studied with darunavir/ritonavir.
Ethinylestradiol
Norethindrone
35 μg/1 mg once daily
ethinylestradiol AUC ↓ 44% β
ethinylestradiol Cmin ↓ 62% β
ethinylestradiol Cmax ↓ 32% β
norethindrone AUC ↓ 14% β
norethindrone Cmin ↓ 30% β
norethindrone Cmax ↔ β
β with darunavir/ritonavir
56
When darunavir is coadministered 
with a drospirenone-containing 
product, clinical monitoring is 
recommended due to the potential for 
hyperkalaemia. 
Alternative or additional 
contraceptive measures are 
recommended when oestrogen-based 
contraceptives are co-administered 
with darunavir and low dose 
ritonavir. 
Patients using oestrogens as hormone 
replacement therapy should be 
clinically monitored for signs of 
oestrogen deficiency.
OPIOID ANTAGONIST
Naloxegol
Not studied. 
PHOSPHODIESTERASE, TYPE 5 (PDE-5) INHIBITORS 
For the treatment of erectile 
dysfunction
Avanafil
Sildenafil
Tadalafil
Vardenafil
In an interaction study #, a comparable 
systemic exposure to sildenafil was 
observed for a single intake of 100 mg 
sildenafil alone and a single intake of 
25 mg sildenafil co-administered with 
darunavir and low dose ritonavir.
For the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial 
hypertension
Sildenafil
Tadalafil
Not studied. Concomitant use of sildenafil 
or tadalafil for the treatment of pulmonary 
arterial hypertension and darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir may 
increase plasma concentrations of 
sildenafil or tadalafil.
(CYP3A inhibition)
PROTON PUMP INHIBITORS 
Omeprazole
20 mg once daily
#darunavir AUC ↔
#darunavir Cmin ↔
#darunavir Cmax ↔
Co-administration of boosted 
darunavir and naloxegol is 
contraindicated. 
The combination of avanafil and 
darunavir with low dose ritonavir is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Concomitant use of other PDE-5 
inhibitors for the treatment of erectile 
dysfunction with darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir 
should be done with caution. If 
concomitant use of darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir 
with sildenafil, vardenafil or tadalafil 
is indicated, sildenafil at a single 
dose not exceeding 25 mg in 
48 hours, vardenafil at a single dose 
not exceeding 2.5 mg in 72 hours or 
tadalafil at a single dose not 
exceeding 10 mg in 72 hours is 
recommended.
A safe and effective dose of 
sildenafil for the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension co-
administered with darunavir and low 
dose ritonavir has not been 
established. There is an increased 
potential for sildenafil-associated 
adverse events (including visual 
disturbances, hypotension, prolonged 
erection and syncope). Therefore, co-
administration of darunavir with low 
dose ritonavir and sildenafil when 
used for the treatment of pulmonary 
arterial hypertension is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Co-administration of tadalafil for the 
treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension with darunavir and low 
dose ritonavir is not recommended.
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir can be co-administered 
with proton pump inhibitors without 
dose adjustments.
SEDATIVES/HYPNOTICS 
Buspirone
Clorazepate
Diazepam
Estazolam
Flurazepam
Midazolam (parenteral)
Zolpidem
Not studied. Sedative/hypnotics are 
extensively metabolised by CYP3A. Co-
administration with darunavir/ritonavir 
may cause a large increase in the 
concentration of these medicines.
Clinical monitoring is recommended 
when co-administering darunavir 
with these sedatives/hypnotics and a 
lower dose of the sedatives/hypnotics 
should be considered.
If parenteral midazolam is co-administered 
with darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir it may cause a large increase 
in the concentration of this 
benzodiazepine. Data from concomitant 
If parenteral midazolam is co-
administered with darunavir with low 
dose ritonavir, it should be done in 
an intensive care unit (ICU) or 
similar setting, which ensures close 
57
use of parenteral midazolam with other 
protease inhibitors suggest a possible 3-
4 fold increase in midazolam plasma 
levels.
Midazolam(oral)
Triazolam
TREATMENT FOR PREMATURE EJACULATION
Dapoxetine
Not studied. 
UROLOGICAL DRUGS
Fesoterodine
Solifenacin
Not studied. 
clinical monitoring and appropriate 
medical management in case of 
respiratory depression and/or 
prolonged sedation. Dose adjustment 
for midazolam should be considered, 
especially if more than a single dose 
of midazolam is administered.
Darunavir with low dose ritonavir 
with triazolam or oral midazolam is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Co-administration of boosted 
darunavir with dapoxetine is 
contraindicated.
Use with caution. Monitor for 
fesoterodine or solifenacin adverse 
reactions, dose reduction of 
fesoterodine or solifenacin may be 
necessary.
#
† 
‡
Studies have been performed at lower than recommended doses of darunavir or with a different dosing regimen (see section 4.2
Posology).
The efficacy and safety of the use of darunavir with 100 mg ritonavir and any other HIV PI (e.g. (fos)amprenavir and tipranavir) has not 
been established in HIV patients. According to current treatment guidelines, dual therapy with protease inhibitors is generally not 
recommended.
Study was conducted with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg once daily.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
As a general rule, when deciding to use antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV infection in 
pregnant women and consequently for reducing the risk of HIV vertical transmission to the newborn, 
the animal data as well as the clinical experience in pregnant women should be taken into account.
There are no adequate and well controlled studies on pregnancy outcome with darunavir in pregnant 
women. Studies in animals do not indicate direct harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, 
embryonal/foetal development, parturition or postnatal development (see section 5.3).
Darunavir co-administered with low dose ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the 
potential benefit justifies the potential risk.
Breast-feeding
It is not known whether darunavir is excreted in human milk. Studies in rats have demonstrated that 
darunavir is excreted in milk and at high levels (1 000 mg/kg/day) resulted in toxicity of the offspring.
Because of the potential for adverse reactions in breast-fed infants, women should be instructed not to 
breast-feed if they are receiving Darunavir Krka.
In order to avoid transmission of HIV to the infant it is recommended that women living with HIV do 
not breast-feed.
Fertility
No human data on the effect of darunavir on fertility are available. There was no effect on mating or 
fertility with darunavir treatment in rats (see section 5.3).
58
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Darunavir in combination with ritonavir has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use 
machines. However, dizziness has been reported in some patients during treatment with regimens 
containing darunavir co-administered with low dose ritonavir and should be borne in mind when 
considering a patient's ability to drive or operate machinery (see section 4.8).
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
During the clinical development program (N=2 613 treatment-experienced subjects who initiated 
therapy with darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily), 51.3% of subjects experienced at least one
adverse reaction. The total mean treatment duration for subjects was 95.3 weeks. The most frequent 
adverse reactions reported in clinical studies and as spontaneous reports are diarrhoea, nausea, rash, 
headache and vomiting. The most frequent serious reactions are acute renal failure, myocardial 
infarction, immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, thrombocytopenia, osteonecrosis, 
diarrhoea, hepatitis and pyrexia.
In the 96 week analysis, the safety profile of darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily in treatment-
naïve subjects was similar to that seen with darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily in treatment-
experienced subjects except for nausea which was observed more frequently in treatment-naïve 
subjects. This was driven by mild intensity nausea. No new safety findings were identified in the 
192 week analysis of the treatment-naïve subjects in which the mean treatment duration of 
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily was 162.5 weeks.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Adverse reactions are listed by system organ class (SOC) and frequency category. Within each 
frequency category, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. Frequency 
categories are defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon 
(≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000) and not known (frequency cannot be estimated 
from the available data).
Table 4. Adverse reactions observed with darunavir/ritonavir in clinical study and post-
marketing
MedDRA system organ class
Frequency category
Infections and infestations
uncommon
Blood and lymphatic system disorders
uncommon
rare
Immune system disorders
uncommon
Endocrine disorders
uncommon
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
common
uncommon
Adverse reaction
herpes simplex
thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, anaemia, leukopenia
increased eosinophil count
immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, (drug) 
hypersensitivity
hypothyroidism, increased blood thyroid stimulating 
hormone
diabetes mellitus, hypertriglyceridaemia, 
hypercholesterolaemia, hyperlipidaemia
gout, anorexia, decreased appetite, decreased weight, 
increased weight, hyperglycaemia, insulin resistance, 
59
Psychiatric disorders
common
uncommon 
rare
Nervous system disorders
common
uncommon
rare
Eye disorders
uncommon
rare
Ear and labyrinth disorders
uncommon
Cardiac disorders
uncommon
rare
Vascular disorders
uncommon
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders
uncommon
rare
Gastrointestinal disorders
very common
common
uncommon
rare
Hepatobiliary disorders
common
uncommon
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
common
uncommon
decreased high density lipoprotein, increased appetite, 
polydipsia, increased blood lactate dehydrogenase
insomnia
depression, disorientation, anxiety, sleep disorder, 
abnormal dreams, nightmare, decreased libido
confusional state, altered mood, restlessness
headache, peripheral neuropathy, dizziness
lethargy, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, dysgeusia, 
disturbance in attention, memory impairment, 
somnolence
syncope, convulsion, ageusia, sleep phase rhythm 
disturbance
conjunctival hyperaemia, dry eye
visual disturbance
vertigo
myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, prolonged 
electrocardiogram QT, tachycardia
acute myocardial infarction, sinus bradycardia, 
palpitations
hypertension, flushing
dyspnoea, cough, epistaxis, throat irritation
rhinorrhoea
diarrhoea
vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain, increased blood 
amylase, dyspepsia, abdominal distension, flatulence
pancreatitis, gastritis, gastrooesophageal reflux disease, 
aphthous stomatitis, retching, dry mouth, abdominal 
discomfort, constipation, increased lipase, eructation, 
oral dysaesthesia
stomatitis, haematemesis, cheilitis, dry lip, coated 
tongue
increased alanine aminotransferase
hepatitis, cytolytic hepatitis, hepatic steatosis, 
hepatomegaly, increased transaminase, increased 
aspartate aminotransferase, increased blood bilirubin, 
increased blood alkaline phosphatase, increased 
gamma-glutamyltransferase
rash (including macular, maculopapular, papular, 
erythematous and pruritic rash), pruritus
angioedema, generalised rash, allergic dermatitis, 
urticaria, eczema, erythema, hyperhidrosis, night 
sweats, alopecia, acne, dry skin, nail pigmentation
60
rare
not known
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders
uncommon
rare
Renal and urinary disorders
uncommon
rare
rare
DRESS, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema 
multiforme, dermatitis, seborrhoeic dermatitis, skin 
lesion, xeroderma
toxic epidermal necrolysis, acute generalised 
exanthematous pustulosis
myalgia, osteonecrosis, muscle spasms, muscular 
weakness, arthralgia, pain in extremity, osteoporosis, 
increased blood creatine phosphokinase
musculoskeletal stiffness, arthritis, joint stiffness
acute renal failure, renal failure, nephrolithiasis, 
increased blood creatinine, proteinuria, bilirubinuria, 
dysuria, nocturia, pollakiuria
decreased creatinine renal clearance
crystal nephropathy§
Reproductive system and breast disorders
uncommon
erectile dysfunction, gynaecomastia
General disorders and administration site conditions
common
uncommon
asthenia, fatigue
pyrexia, chest pain, peripheral oedema, malaise, feeling 
hot, irritability, pain
rare
§ adverse reaction identified in the post-marketing setting. Per the guideline on Summary of Product Characteristics (Revision 
2, September 2009), the frequency of this adverse reaction in the post-marketing setting was determined using the "Rule of 
3".
chills, abnormal feeling, xerosis
Description of selected adverse reactions
Rash
In clinical studies, rash was mostly mild to moderate, often occurring within the first four weeks of 
treatment and resolving with continued dosing. In cases of severe skin reaction see the warning in 
section 4.4.
During the clinical development program of raltegravir in treatment-experienced patients, rash, 
irrespective of causality, was more commonly observed with regimens containing darunavir/ritonavir
+ raltegravir compared to those containing darunavir/ritonavir without raltegravir or raltegravir 
without darunavir/ritonavir. Rash considered by the investigator to be drug-related occurred at similar 
rates. The exposure-adjusted rates of rash (all causality) were 10.9, 4.2, and 3.8 per 100 patient-years 
(PYR), respectively; and for drug-related rash were 2.4, 1.1, and 2.3 per 100 PYR, respectively. The 
rashes observed in clinical studies were mild to moderate in severity and did not result in 
discontinuation of therapy (see section 4.4).
Metabolic parameters
Weight and levels of blood lipids and glucose may increase during antiretroviral therapy (see section 
4.4).
Musculoskeletal abnormalities
Increased CPK, myalgia, myositis and rarely, rhabdomyolysis have been reported with the use of 
protease inhibitors, particularly in combination with NRTIs.
Cases of osteonecrosis have been reported, particularly in patients with generally acknowledged risk 
factors, advanced HIV disease or long-term exposure to combination antiretroviral therapy (CART). 
The frequency of this is unknown (see section 4.4).
61
Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome
In HIV infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
infections may arise. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have 
also been reported; however, the reported time to onset is more variable and these events can occur 
many months after initiation of treatment (see section 4.4).
Bleeding in haemophiliac patients
There have been reports of increased spontaneous bleeding in haemophiliac patients receiving 
antiretroviral protease inhibitors (see section 4.4).
Paediatric population
The safety assessment in paediatric patients is based on the 48-week analysis of safety data from three 
Phase II studies. The following patient populations were evaluated (see section 5.1):

80 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 6 to 17 years and weighing at 
least 20 kg who received darunavir tablets with low dose ritonavir twice daily in combination 
with other antiretroviral agents.
21 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 3 to < 6 years and weighing 
10 kg to < 20 kg (16 participants from 15 kg to < 20 kg) who received darunavir oral suspension 
with low dose ritonavir twice daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents.
12 ART-naïve HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 12 to 17 years and weighing at least 
40 kg who received darunavir tablets with low dose ritonavir once daily in combination with 
other antiretroviral agents (see section 5.1).


Overall, the safety profile in these paediatric patients was similar to that observed in the adult
population.
Other special populations
Patients co-infected with hepatitis B and/or hepatitis C virus
Among 1 968 treatment-experienced patients receiving darunavir co-administered with ritonavir
600/100 mg twice daily, 236 patients were co-infected with hepatitis B or C. Co-infected patients were 
more likely to have baseline and treatment emergent hepatic transaminase elevations than those 
without chronic viral hepatitis (see section 4.4).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
Human experience of acute overdose with darunavir co-administered with low dose ritonavir is 
limited. Single doses up to 3 200 mg of darunavir as oral solution alone and up to 1 600 mg of the 
tablet formulation of darunavir in combination with ritonavir have been administered to healthy 
volunteers without untoward symptomatic effects.
There is no specific antidote for overdose with darunavir. Treatment of overdose with darunavir 
consists of general supportive measures including monitoring of vital signs and observation of the 
clinical status of the patient. 
Since darunavir is highly protein bound, dialysis is unlikely to be beneficial in significant removal of 
the active substance.
62
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antivirals for systemic use, protease inhibitors, ATC code: J05AE10.
Mechanism of action
Darunavir is an inhibitor of the dimerisation and of the catalytic activity of the HIV-1 protease (KD of 
4.5 x 10-12M). It selectively inhibits the cleavage of HIV encoded Gag-Pol polyproteins in virus 
infected cells, thereby preventing the formation of mature infectious virus particles.
Antiviral activity in vitro
Darunavir exhibits activity against laboratory strains and clinical isolates of HIV-1 and laboratory 
strains of HIV-2 in acutely infected T-cell lines, human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and 
human monocytes/macrophages with median EC50 values ranging from 1.2 to 8.5 nM (0.7 to 
5.0 ng/ml). Darunavir demonstrates antiviral activity in vitro against a broad panel of HIV-1 group M 
(A, B, C, D, E, F, G) and group O primary isolates with EC50 values ranging from < 0.1 to 4.3 nM.
These EC50 values are well below the 50% cellular toxicity concentration range of 87 µM to 
> 100 µM.
Resistance
In vitro selection of darunavir-resistant virus from wild type HIV-1 was lengthy (> 3 years). The 
selected viruses were unable to grow in the presence of darunavir concentrations above 400 nM. 
Viruses selected in these conditions and showing decreased susceptibility to darunavir (range: 23-50-
fold) harboured 2 to 4 amino acid substitutions in the protease gene. The decreased susceptibility to 
darunavir of the emerging viruses in the selection experiment could not be explained by the emergence 
of these protease mutations.
The clinical study data from ART-experienced patients (TITAN study and the pooled analysis of the 
POWER 1, 2 and 3 and DUET 1 and 2 studies) showed that virologic response to darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir was decreased when 3 or more darunavir RAMs (V11I, V32I, 
L33F, I47V, I50V, I54L or M, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V) were present at baseline or when these 
mutations developed during treatment.
Increasing baseline darunavir fold change in EC50 (FC) was associated with decreasing virologic 
response. A lower and upper clinical cut-off of 10 and 40 were identified. Isolates with baseline FC 
≤ 10 are susceptible; isolates with FC > 10 to 40 have decreased susceptibility; isolates with FC > 40 
are resistant (see Clinical results).
Viruses isolated from patients on darunavir /ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily experiencing virologic 
failure by rebound that were susceptible to tipranavir at baseline remained susceptible to tipranavir 
after treatment in the vast majority of cases.
The lowest rates of developing resistant HIV virus are observed in ART-naïve patients who are treated 
for the first time with darunavir in combination with other ART.
The table below shows the development of HIV-1 protease mutations and loss of susceptibility to PIs 
in virologic failures at endpoint in the ARTEMIS, ODIN and TITAN studies.
Table 5. The development of HIV-1 protease mutations and loss of susceptibility to PIs in 
virologic failures at endpoint in the ARTEMIS, ODIN and TITAN studies.
63
ARTEMIS
Week 192
ODIN
Week 48
TITAN
Week 48
darunavir/ ritonavir
800/100 mg
once daily
N=343
darunavir/ ritonavir
800/100 mg
once daily
N=294
darunavir/ ritonavir
600/100 mg
twice daily
N=296
darunavir/ ritonavir
600/100 mg
twice daily
N=298
55 (16.0%)
65 (22.1%)
54 (18.2%)
31 (10.4%)
39 (11.4%)
16 (4.7%)
11 (3.7%)
54 (18.4%)
11 (3.7%)
43 (14.5%)
16 (5.4%)
15 (5.0%)
Total number of virologic 
failuresa, n (%)
Rebounders
Never suppressed 
subjects
Number of subjects with virologic failure and paired baseline/endpoint genotypes, developing mutationsb at 
endpoint, n/N
Primary (major) PI 
mutations
PI RAMs
0/43
4/43
1/60
7/60
0/42
4/42
6/28
10/28
Number of subjects with virologic failure and paired baseline/endpoint phenotypes, showing loss of 
susceptibility to PIs at endpoint compared to baseline, n/N
PI
darunavir
amprenavir
atazanavir
indinavir
lopinavir
saquinavir
tipranavir
0/39
0/39
0/39
0/39
0/39
0/39
0/39
1/58
1/58
2/56
2/57
1/58
0/56
0/58
0/41
0/40
0/40
0/40
0/40
0/40
0/41
3/26
0/22
0/22
1/24
0/23
0/22
1/25
a TLOVR non-VF censored algorithm based on HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml, except for TITAN (HIV-1 RNA 
< 400 copies/ml)
b IAS-USA lists
Cross-resistance
Darunavir FC was less than 10 for 90% of 3 309 clinical isolates resistant to amprenavir, atazanavir, 
indinavir, lopinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir and/or tipranavir showing that viruses resistant to 
most PIs remain susceptible to darunavir.
In the virologic failures of the ARTEMIS study no cross-resistance with other PIs was observed.
Clinical results
Adult patients
For clinical study results in ART-naïve adult patients, refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics 
for Darunavir Krka 400 mg and 800 mg tablets.
Efficacy of darunavir 600 mg twice daily co-administered with 100 mg ritonavir twice daily in ART-
experienced patients
The evidence of efficacy of darunavir co-administered with ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily) in 
ART-experienced patients is based on the 96 weeks analysis of the Phase III study TITAN in ART-
experienced lopinavir naïve patients, on the 48 week analysis of the Phase III study ODIN in ART-
experienced patients with no DRV-RAMs, and on the analyses of 96 weeks data from the Phase IIb 
studies POWER 1 and 2 in ART-experienced patients with high level of PI resistance.
TITAN is a randomised, controlled, open-label Phase III study comparing darunavir co-administered 
with ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily) versus lopinavir/ritonavir (400/100 mg twice daily) in ART-
experienced, lopinavir naïve HIV-1 infected adult patients. Both arms used an Optimised Background 
Regimen (OBR) consisting of at least 2 antiretrovirals (NRTIs with or without NNRTIs).
64
The table below shows the efficacy data of the 48 week analysis from the TITAN study.
Table 6. The efficacy data of the 48 week analysis from the TITAN study
Outcomes
darunavir/ritonavir
600/100 mg twice daily + 
OBR
N=298
Lopinavir/ritonavir
400/100 mg twice daily + 
OBR
N=297
Treatment difference
(95% CI of difference)
TITAN
70.8% (211)
HIV-1 RNA 
< 50 copies/mla
median CD4+ cell 
count change from 
baseline (x 106/L)c
a Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm
b Based on a normal approximation of the difference in % response
c NC=F
88
60.3% (179)
10.5% (2.9; 18.1)b
81
At 48 weeks non-inferiority in virologic response to the darunavir/ritonavir treatment, defined as the 
percentage of patients with plasma HIV-1 RNA level < 400 and < 50 copies/ml, was demonstrated (at 
the pre-defined 12% non-inferiority margin) for both ITT and OP populations. These results were 
confirmed in the analysis of data at 96 weeks of treatment in the TITAN study, with 60.4% of patients 
in the darunavir/ritonavir arm having HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml at week 96 compared to 55.2% in 
the lopinavir/ritonavir arm [difference: 5.2%, 95% CI (-2.8; 13.1)].
ODIN is a Phase III, randomised, open-label study comparing darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once 
daily versus darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily in ART-experienced HIV-1 infected patients 
with screening genotype resistance testing showing no darunavir RAMs (i.e. V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, 
I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V, L89V) and a screening HIV-1 RNA > 1 000 copies/ml. 
Efficacy analysis is based on 48 weeks of treatment (see table below). Both arms used an optimised 
background regimen (OBR) of ≥ 2 NRTIs.
Table 7. Efficacy analysis of ODIN study.
ODIN
Outcomes
darunavir/ritonavir 
800/100 mg once daily + 
OBR
N=294
darunavir/ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice daily 
+ OBR
N=296
Treatment difference
(95% CI of difference)
HIV-1 RNA 
< 50 copies/mla
With Baseline HIV-1 
RNA (copies/ml)
< 100 000
≥ 100 000
With Baseline CD4+ 
cell count (x 106/L)
≥ 100
< 100
With HIV-1 clade
Type B
Type AE
Type C
Otherc
mean CD4+ cell count 
change from baseline
72.1% (212)
70.9% (210)
1.2% (-6.1; 8.5)b
77.6% (198/255)
35.9% (14/39)
73.2% (194/265)
51.6% (16/31)
4.4% (-3.0; 11.9)
-15.7% (-39.2; 7.7)
75.1% (184/245)
57.1% (28/49)
72.5% (187/258)
60.5% (23/38)
2.6% (-5.1; 10.3)
-3.4% (-24.5; 17.8)
70.4% (126/179)
90.5% (38/42)
72.7% (32/44)
55.2% (16/29)
108
64.3% (128/199)
91.2% (31/34)
78.8% (26/33)
83.3% (25/30)
112
6.1% (-3.4; 15.6)
-0.7% (-14.0; 12.6)
-6.1% (-2.6; 13.7)
-28.2% (-51.0; -5.3)
-5d (-25; 16)
65
(x 106/L)e
a Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm
b Based on a normal approximation of the difference in % response
c Clades A1, D, F1, G, K, CRF02_AG, CRF12_BF, and CRF06_CPX
d Difference in means
e Last Observation Carried Forward imputation
At 48 weeks, virologic response, defined as the percentage of patients with plasma HIV-1 RNA level 
< 50 copies/ml, with darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily treatment was demonstrated to be 
non-inferior (at the pre-defined 12% non-inferiority margin) compared to darunavir/ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice daily for both ITT and OP populations.
Darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily in ART-experienced patients should not be used in patients 
with one or more darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs) or HIV-1 RNA 
≥ 100 000 copies/ml or CD4+ cell count < 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2 and 4.4). Limited data is 
available in patients with HIV-1 clades other than B.
POWER 1 and POWER 2 are randomised, controlled studies comparing darunavir co-administered 
with ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily) with a control group receiving an investigator-selected PI(s) 
regimen in HIV-1 infected patients who had previously failed more than 1 PI containing regimen. An 
OBR consisting of at least 2 NRTIs with or without enfuvirtide (ENF) was used in both studies.
The table below shows the efficacy data of the 48-week and 96-week analyses from the pooled 
POWER 1 and POWER 2 studies.
Table 8. POWER 1 and POWER 2 pooled data
Outcomes
darunavir / 
ritonavir 
600/100 mg 
twice daily 
n=131
Week 48
Control 
n=124
Treatment 
difference
11.3%
(14)
17
45.0%
(59)
HIV RNA 
< 50 copies/mla
CD4+ cell count 
mean change from 
baseline (x 106/L)b
a Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm
b Last Observation Carried Forward imputation
c 95% confidence intervals.
103
33.7%
(23.4%; 44.1%)c
86
(57; 114)c
darunavir / 
ritonavir 
600/100 mg 
twice daily 
n=131
38.9%
(51)
133
Week 96
Control 
n=124
Treatment 
difference
8.9%
(11)
15
30.1%
(20.1; 40.0)c
118
(83.9; 153.4)c
Analyses of data through 96 weeks of treatment in the POWER studies demonstrated sustained 
antiretroviral efficacy and immunologic benefit.
Out of the 59 patients who responded with complete viral suppression (< 50 copies/ml) at week 48, 
47 patients (80% of the responders at week 48) remained responders at week 96.
Baseline genotype or phenotype and virologic outcome
Baseline genotype and darunavir FC (shift in susceptibility relative to reference) were shown to be a 
predictive factor of virologic outcome.
Table 9. Proportion (%) of patients with response (HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml at week 24) to 
darunavir co-administered with ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily) by baseline genotypea, and 
baseline darunavir FC and by use of enfuvirtide (ENF): As treated analysis of the POWER and 
DUET studies.
I 
I 
Number of baseline mutationsa
I 
Baseline DRV FCb
I 
66
Response (HIV-1 
RNA < 50 copies/ml 
at week 24)
%, n/N
All patients
All ranges
0-2
3
≥ 4
All ranges
≤ 10
10-40
> 40
45%
455/1 014
54%
359/660
39%
67/172
12%
20/171
45%
455/1 014
55%
364/659
29%
59/203
8%
9/118
29%
35/120
7%
10/135
50%
238/477
39%
290/741
Patients with no/non-
naïve use of ENFc
Patients with naïve 
use of ENFd
a Number of mutations from the list of mutations associated with a diminished response to darunavir/ritonavir (V11I, V32I, 
L33F, I47V, I50V, I54L or M, T74P, L76V, I84V or L89V)
b fold change in EC50
c “Patients with no/non-naïve use of ENF” are patients who did not use ENF or who used ENF but not for the first time
d “Patients with naïve use of ENF” are patients who used ENF for the first time
51%
244/477
39%
290/741
60%
165/273
66%
120/182
66%
121/183
60%
165/273
17%
25/147
62%
32/52
28%
10/36
61%
34/56
17%
4/24
5%
5/94
Paediatric patients
For clinical study results in ART-naïve paediatric patients aged 12 to 17 years, refer to the Summary 
of Product Characteristics for Darunavir Krka 400 mg and 800 mg tablets.
ART-experienced paediatric patients from the age of 6 to < 18 years and weighing at least 20 kg
DELPHI is an open-label, Phase II study evaluating the pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability, and 
efficacy of darunavir with low dose ritonavir in 80 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric 
patients aged 6 to 17 years and weighing at least 20 kg. These patients received darunavir/ritonavir 
twice daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents (see section 4.2 for dose recommendations 
per body weight). Virologic response was defined as a decrease in plasma HIV-1 RNA viral load of at 
least 1.0 log10 versus baseline.
In the study, patients who were at risk of discontinuing therapy due to intolerance of ritonavir oral 
solution (e.g. taste aversion) were allowed to switch to the capsule formulation. Of the 44 patients 
taking ritonavir oral solution, 27 switched to the 100 mg capsule formulation and exceeded the weight-
based ritonavir dose without changes in observed safety.
Table 10. Outcomes at week 48 in Delphi study
Outcomes at week 48
darunavir/ritonavir
N=80
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mla
CD4+ cell count mean change from baselineb
a Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm.
b Non-completer is failure imputation: patients who discontinued prematurely are imputed with a change equal to 0.
47.5% (38)
147
According to the TLOVR non-virologic failure censored algorithm 24 (30.0%) patients experienced 
virological failure, of which 17 (21.3%) patients were rebounders and 7 (8.8%) patients were non-
responders.
ART-experienced paediatric patients from the age of 3 to < 6 years
The pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability and efficacy of darunavir/ritonavir twice daily in 
combination with other antiretroviral agents in 21 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric patients 
aged 3 to < 6 years and weighing 10 kg to < 20 kg was evaluated in an open-label, Phase II study, 
ARIEL. Patients received a weight-based twice daily treatment regimen, patients weighing 10 kg to 
< 15 kg received darunavir/ritonavir 25/3 mg/kg twice daily, and patients weighing 15 kg to < 20 kg 
received darunavir/ritonavir 375/50 mg twice daily. At week 48, the virologic response, defined as the 
percentage of patients with confirmed plasma viral load < 50 HIV-1 RNA copies/ml, was evaluated in 
16 paediatric patients 15 kg to < 20 kg and 5 paediatric patients 10 kg to < 15 kg receiving 
darunavir/ritonavir in combination with other antiretroviral agents (see section 4.2 for dose
67
recommendations per body weight).
Table 11. Outcomes at week 48 in Ariel study
Outcomes at week 48
darunavir /ritonavir
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mla
CD4+ percent change from baselineb
CD4+ cell count mean change from baselineb
a Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm.
b NC=F
10 kg to < 15 kg
N=5
80.0% (4)
4
16
15 kg to < 20 kg
N=16
81.3% (13)
4
241
Limited efficacy data are available in paediatric patients below 15 kg and no recommendation on a 
posology can be made.
Pregnancy and postpartum
Darunavir/ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily or 800/100 mg once daily) in combination with a 
background regimen was evaluated in a clinical study of 36 pregnant women (18 in each arm) during 
the second and third trimesters, and postpartum. Virologic response was preserved throughout the 
study period in both arms. No mother to child transmission occurred in the infants born to the 
31 subjects who stayed on the antiretroviral treatment through delivery. There were no new clinically 
relevant safety findings compared with the known safety profile of darunavir/ritonavir in HIV-1 
infected adults (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2).
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
The pharmacokinetic properties of darunavir, co-administered with ritonavir, have been evaluated in 
healthy adult volunteers and in HIV-1 infected patients. Exposure to darunavir was higher in HIV-1 
infected patients than in healthy subjects. The increased exposure to darunavir in HIV-1 infected 
patients compared to healthy subjects may be explained by the higher concentrations of α1-acid 
glycoprotein (AAG) in HIV-1 infected patients, resulting in higher darunavir binding to plasma AAG 
and, therefore, higher plasma concentrations.
Darunavir is primarily metabolised by CYP3A. Ritonavir inhibits CYP3A, thereby increasing the 
plasma concentrations of darunavir considerably.
Absorption
Darunavir was rapidly absorbed following oral administration. Maximum plasma concentration of 
darunavir in the presence of low dose ritonavir is generally achieved within 2.5-4.0 hours.
The absolute oral bioavailability of a single 600 mg dose of darunavir alone was approximately 37% 
and increased to approximately 82% in the presence of 100 mg twice daily ritonavir. The overall 
pharmacokinetic enhancement effect by ritonavir was an approximate 14-fold increase in the systemic 
exposure of darunavir when a single dose of 600 mg darunavir was given orally in combination with 
ritonavir at 100 mg twice daily (see section 4.4).
When administered without food, the relative bioavailability of darunavir in the presence of low dose 
ritonavir is 30% lower as compared to intake with food. Therefore, darunavir tablets should be taken 
with ritonavir and with food. The type of food does not affect exposure to darunavir.
Distribution
Darunavir is approximately 95% bound to plasma protein. Darunavir binds primarily to plasma α1-acid 
glycoprotein.
68
Following intravenous administration, the volume of distribution of darunavir alone was 88.1 ± 59.0 l 
(Mean ± SD) and increased to 131 ± 49.9 l (Mean ± SD) in the presence of 100 mg twice-daily 
ritonavir.
Biotransformation
In vitro experiments with human liver microsomes (HLMs) indicate that darunavir primarily 
undergoes oxidative metabolism. Darunavir is extensively metabolised by the hepatic CYP system and 
almost exclusively by isozyme CYP3A4. A 14C-darunavir study in healthy volunteers showed that a 
majority of the radioactivity in plasma after a single 400/100 mg darunavir with ritonavir dose was due 
to the parent active substance. At least 3 oxidative metabolites of darunavir have been identified in 
humans; all showed activity that was at least 10-fold less than the activity of darunavir against wild 
type HIV.
Elimination
After a 400/100 mg 14C-darunavir with ritonavir dose, approximately 79.5% and 13.9% of the 
administered dose of 14C-darunavir could be retrieved in faeces and urine, respectively. Unchanged 
darunavir accounted for approximately 41.2% and 7.7% of the administered dose in faeces and urine, 
respectively. The terminal elimination half-life of darunavir was approximately 15 hours when 
combined with ritonavir.
The intravenous clearance of darunavir alone (150 mg) and in the presence of low dose ritonavir was 
32.8 l/h and 5.9 l/h, respectively.
Special populations
Paediatric population
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken twice daily in 74 treatment-
experienced paediatric patients, aged 6 to 17 years and weighing at least 20 kg, showed that the 
administered weight-based doses of darunavir/ritonavir resulted in darunavir exposure comparable to 
that in adults receiving darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily (see section 4.2).
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken twice daily in 14 treatment-
experienced paediatric patients, aged 3 to < 6 years and weighing at least 15 kg to < 20 kg, showed 
that weight-based doses resulted in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that achieved in adults 
receiving darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily (see section 4.2).
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken once daily in 12 ART-naïve 
paediatric patients, aged 12 to < 18 years and weighing at least 40 kg, showed that darunavir/ritonavir 
800/100 mg once daily results in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that achieved in adults 
receiving darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily. Therefore the same once daily dose may be used 
in treatment-experienced adolescents aged 12 to < 18 years and weighing at least 40 kg without 
darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs)* and who have plasma HIV-
1 RNA < 100 000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count ≥ 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2).
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken once daily in 10 treatment-
experienced paediatric patients, aged 3 to < 6 years and weighing at least 14 kg to < 20 kg, showed 
that weight-based doses resulted in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that achieved in adults 
receiving darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily (see section 4.2). In addition, pharmacokinetic 
modeling and simulation of darunavir exposures in paediatric patients across the ages of 3 to 
< 18 years confirmed the darunavir exposures as observed in the clinical studies and allowed the 
identification of weight-based darunavir/ritonavir once daily dosing regimens for paediatric patients 
weighing at least 15 kg that are either ART-naïve or treatment-experienced paediatric patients without 
DRV-RAMs* and who have plasma HIV-1 RNA < 100 000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count 
≥ 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2).
69
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V
Elderly
Population pharmacokinetic analysis in HIV infected patients showed that darunavir pharmacokinetics 
are not considerably different in the age range (18 to 75 years) evaluated in HIV infected patients 
(n=12, age ≥ 65) (see section 4.4). However, only limited data were available in patients above the age 
of 65 year.
Gender
Population pharmacokinetic analysis showed a slightly higher darunavir exposure (16.8%) in HIV 
infected females compared to males. This difference is not clinically relevant.
Renal impairment
Results from a mass balance study with 14C-darunavir with ritonavir showed that approximately 7.7% 
of the administered dose of darunavir is excreted in the urine unchanged.
Although darunavir has not been studied in patients with renal impairment, population 
pharmacokinetic analysis showed that the pharmacokinetics of darunavir were not significantly 
affected in HIV infected patients with moderate renal impairment (CrCl between 30-60 ml/min, n=20) 
(see sections 4.2 and 4.4).
Hepatic impairment
Darunavir is primarily metabolised and eliminated by the liver. In a multiple dose study with darunavir
co-administered with ritonavir (600/100 mg) twice daily, it was demonstrated that the total plasma 
concentrations of darunavir in subjects with mild (Child-Pugh Class A, n=8) and moderate (Child-
Pugh Class B, n=8) hepatic impairment were comparable with those in healthy subjects. However, 
unbound darunavir concentrations were approximately 55% (Child-Pugh Class A) and 100% (Child-
Pugh Class B) higher, respectively. The clinical relevance of this increase is unknown therefore, 
darunavir should be used with caution. The effect of severe hepatic impairment on the 
pharmacokinetics of darunavir has not been studied (see sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4).
Pregnancy and postpartum
The exposure to total darunavir and ritonavir after intake of darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice 
daily and darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen was generally 
lower during pregnancy compared with postpartum. However, for unbound (i.e. active) darunavir, the 
pharmacokinetic parameters were less reduced during pregnancy compared to postpartum, due to an 
increase in the unbound fraction of darunavir during pregnancy compared to postpartum.
Table 12. Pharmacokinetic results of total darunavir after administration of darunavir/ritonavir at 
600/100 mg twice daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen, during the second trimester of pregnancy, the 
third trimester of pregnancy and postpartum
Pharmacokinetics of total 
darunavir 
(mean ± SD)
Cmax, ng/ml
AUC12h, ng.h/ml
Cmin, ng/ml
a n=11 for AUC12h
Second trimester of 
pregnancy 
(n=12)a
4 668 ± 1 097
39 370 ± 9 597
1 922 ± 825
Third trimester of 
pregnancy 
(n=12) 
5 328 ± 1 631
45 880 ± 17 360
2 661 ± 1 269
Postpartum (6-12 weeks) 
(n=12) 
6 659 ± 2 364
56 890 ± 26 340
2 851 ± 2 216
Table 13. Pharmacokinetic results of total darunavir after administration of darunavir/ritonavir at 
800/100 mg once daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen, during the second trimester of pregnancy, the 
third trimester of pregnancy and postpartum
Pharmacokinetics of total 
darunavir 
(mean ± SD)
Cmax, ng/ml
Second trimester of 
pregnancy 
(n=17) 
4 964 ± 1 505
Third Trimester of 
pregnancy 
(n=15) 
5 132 ± 1 198
Postpartum (6-12 weeks) 
(n=16) 
7 310 ± 1 704
70
AUC24h, ng.h/ml
Cmin, ng/ml
62 289 ± 16 234
61 112 ± 13 790
1 248 ± 542
1 075 ± 594
92 116 ± 29 241
1 473 ± 1 141
In women receiving darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, mean intra-individual values for total darunavir Cmax, AUC12h and Cmin were 28%, 26% and 
26% lower, respectively, as compared with postpartum; during the third trimester of pregnancy, total 
darunavir Cmax, AUC12h and Cmin values were 18%, 16% lower and 2% higher, respectively, as 
compared with postpartum.
In women receiving darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, mean intra-individual values for total darunavir Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin were 33%, 31% and 
30% lower, respectively, as compared with postpartum; during the third trimester of pregnancy, total 
darunavir Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin values were 29%, 32% and 50% lower, respectively, as compared 
with postpartum.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Animal toxicology studies have been conducted at exposures up to clinical exposure levels with 
darunavir alone, in mice, rats and dogs and in combination with ritonavir in rats and dogs.
In repeated-dose toxicology studies in mice, rats and dogs, there were only limited effects of treatment 
with darunavir. In rodents the target organs identified were the haematopoietic system, the blood 
coagulation system, liver and thyroid. A variable but limited decrease in red blood cell-related 
parameters was observed, together with increases in activated partial thromboplastin time.
Changes were observed in liver (hepatocyte hypertrophy, vacuolation, increased liver enzymes) and 
thyroid (follicular hypertrophy). In the rat, the combination of darunavir with ritonavir lead to a small 
increase in effect on red blood cell (RBC) parameters, liver and thyroid and increased incidence of 
islet fibrosis in the pancreas (in male rats only) compared to treatment with darunavir alone. In the 
dog, no major toxicity findings or target organs were identified up to exposures equivalent to clinical 
exposure at the recommended dose.
In a study conducted in rats, the number of corpora lutea and implantations were decreased in the 
presence of maternal toxicity. Otherwise, there were no effects on mating or fertility with darunavir 
treatment up to 1 000 mg/kg/day and exposure levels below (AUC-0.5 fold) of that in human at the 
clinically recommended dose. Up to same dose levels, there was no teratogenicity with darunavir in 
rats and rabbits when treated alone nor in mice when treated in combination with ritonavir. The 
exposure levels were lower than those with the recommended clinical dose in humans. In a pre- and 
postnatal development assessment in rats, darunavir with and without ritonavir, caused a transient 
reduction in body weight gain of the offspring pre-weaning and there was a slight delay in the opening 
of eyes and ears. Darunavir in combination with ritonavir caused a reduction in the number of pups 
that exhibited the startle response on day 15 of lactation and a reduced pup survival during lactation. 
These effects may be secondary to pup exposure to the active substance via the milk and/or maternal 
toxicity. No post weaning functions were affected with darunavir alone or in combination with 
ritonavir. In juvenile rats receiving darunavir up to days 23-26, increased mortality was observed with 
convulsions in some animals. Exposure in plasma, liver and brain was considerably higher than in 
adult rats after comparable doses in mg/kg between days 5 and 11 of age. After day 23 of life, the 
exposure was comparable to that in adult rats. The increased exposure was likely at least partly due to 
immaturity of the drug-metabolising enzymes in juvenile animals. No treatment related mortalities 
were noted in juvenile rats dosed at 1 000 mg/kg darunavir (single dose) on day 26 of age or at 
500 mg/kg (repeated dose) from day 23 to 50 of age, and the exposures and toxicity profile were 
comparable to those observed in adult rats.
Due to uncertainties regarding the rate of development of the human blood brain barrier and liver 
enzymes, darunavir with low dose ritonavir should not be used in paediatric patients below 3 years of 
age.
71
Darunavir was evaluated for carcinogenic potential by oral gavage administration to mice and rats up 
to 104 weeks. Daily doses of 150, 450 and 1 000 mg/kg were administered to mice and doses of 50, 
150 and 500 mg/kg were administered to rats. Dose-related increases in the incidences of 
hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas were observed in males and females of both species. Thyroid 
follicular cell adenomas were noted in male rats. Administration of darunavir did not cause a 
statistically significant increase in the incidence of any other benign or malignant neoplasm in mice or 
rats. The observed hepatocellular and thyroid tumours in rodents are considered to be of limited 
relevance to humans. Repeated administration of darunavir to rats caused hepatic microsomal enzyme 
induction and increased thyroid hormone elimination, which predispose rats, but not humans, to 
thyroid neoplasms. At the highest tested doses, the systemic exposures (based on AUC) to darunavir 
were between 0.4- and 0.7-fold (mice) and 0.7- and 1-fold (rats), relative to those observed in humans 
at the recommended therapeutic doses.
After 2 years administration of darunavir at exposures at or below the human exposure, kidney 
changes were observed in mice (nephrosis) and rats (chronic progressive nephropathy).
Darunavir was not mutagenic or genotoxic in a battery of in vitro and in vivo assays including 
bacterial reverse mutation (Ames), chromosomal aberration in human lymphocytes and in vivo
micronucleus test in mice.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Tablet core:
Cellulose, microcrystalline
Crospovidone
Hydroxypropylcellulose
Silica, colloidal anhydrous
Silicified microcrystalline cellulose (Cellulose, microcrystalline; Silica, colloidal anhydrous)
Magnesium stearate (E470b)
Film coating:
Poly(vinyl alcohol)
Macrogol
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Talc (E553b)
Iron oxide, yellow (E172)
Iron oxide, red (E172)
6.2
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3
Shelf life
3 years
Shelf life after first opening: 3 months.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
72
For storage conditions after first opening of the medicinal product, see section 6.3.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
Bottle (HDPE), child resistant tamper evident PP closure with a desiccant:
-
-
-
-
30 tablets: 1 bottle of 30 film-coated tablets,
60 tablets: 2 bottles of 30 film-coated tablets,
90 tablets: 3 bottles of 30 film-coated tablets,
180 tablets: 6 bottles of 30 film-coated tablets.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal
No special requirements for disposal.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto, Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
30 film-coated tablets: EU/1/17/1249/005
60 film-coated tablets: EU/1/17/1249/006
90 film-coated tablets: EU/1/17/1249/007
180 film-coated tablets: EU/1/17/1249/008
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 26 January 2018
Date of latest renewal: 9 November 2022
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
73
ANNEX II
A.
B.
C.
D.
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT
74
A. MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto
Šmarješka cesta 6
8501 Novo mesto
Slovenia
TAD Pharma GmbH
Heinz-Lohmann-Straße 5
27472 Cuxhaven
Germany
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch.
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2).
C.

OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT

Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:
 At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
 Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile 
or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
75
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
76
A. LABELLING
77
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
BOX
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Darunavir Krka 400 mg film-coated tablets
darunavir
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 400 mg darunavir.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
film-coated tablet
30 film-coated tablets
60 film-coated tablets
90 film-coated tablets
180 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
Shelf life after first opening: 3 months.
Date of opening:___________
78
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto, Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/17/1249/001 30 film-coated tablets
EU/1/17/1249/002 60 film-coated tablets
EU/1/17/1249/003 90 film-coated tablets
EU/1/17/1249/004 180 film-coated tablets
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Darunavir Krka 400 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
79
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
LABEL for bottle
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Darunavir Krka 400 mg film-coated tablets
darunavir
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 400 mg darunavir.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
film-coated tablet
30 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
Shelf life after first opening: 3 months.
Date of opening:___________
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
80
Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
KRKA
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/17/1249/001 30 film-coated tablets
EU/1/17/1249/002 60 film-coated tablets
EU/1/17/1249/003 90 film-coated tablets
EU/1/17/1249/004 180 film-coated tablets
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
81
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
BOX
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Darunavir Krka 600 mg film-coated tablets
darunavir
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 600 mg darunavir.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
film-coated tablet
30 film-coated tablets
60 film-coated tablets
90 film-coated tablets
180 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
Shelf life after first opening: 3 months.
Date of opening:___________
82
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto, Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/17/1249/005 30 film-coated tablets
EU/1/17/1249/006 60 film-coated tablets
EU/1/17/1249/007 90 film-coated tablets
EU/1/17/1249/008 180 film-coated tablets
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Darunavir Krka 600 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
83
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
LABEL for bottle
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Darunavir Krka 600 mg film-coated tablets
darunavir
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 600 mg darunavir.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
film-coated tablet
30 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
Shelf life after first opening: 3 months.
Date of opening:___________
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
84
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
KRKA
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/17/1249/005 30 film-coated tablets
EU/1/17/1249/006 60 film-coated tablets
EU/1/17/1249/007 90 film-coated tablets
EU/1/17/1249/008 180 film-coated tablets
I 
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
85
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
BOX
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Darunavir Krka 800 mg film-coated tablets
darunavir
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 800 mg darunavir.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
film-coated tablet
30 film-coated tablets
90 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
Shelf life after first opening: 3 months.
Date of opening:___________
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
86
Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto, Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/17/1249/009 30 film-coated tablets
EU/1/17/1249/010 90 film-coated tablets
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Darunavir Krka 800 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
87
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
LABEL for bottle
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Darunavir Krka 800 mg film-coated tablets
darunavir
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each film-coated tablet contains 800 mg darunavir.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
film-coated tablet
30 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
Shelf life after first opening: 3 months.
Date of opening:___________
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
88
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
KRKA
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/17/1249/009 30 film-coated tablets
EU/1/17/1249/010 90 film-coated tablets
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
89
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
90
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Darunavir Krka 400 mg film-coated tablets
Darunavir Krka 800 mg film-coated tablets
darunavir
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet
1. What Darunavir Krka is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take Darunavir Krka
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take Darunavir Krka
Possible side effects
How to store Darunavir Krka
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Darunavir Krka is and what it is used for
What is Darunavir Krka? 
Darunavir Krka contains the active substance darunavir. Darunavir Krka is an antiretroviral medicine 
used in the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection. It belongs to a group of 
medicines called protease inhibitors. Darunavir Krka works by reducing the amount of HIV in your 
body. This will improve your immune system and reduces the risk of developing illnesses linked to 
HIV infection. 
What it is used for? 
The Darunavir Krka 400 and 800 milligram tablets are used to treat adults and children (3 years of age 
and above, at least 40 kilograms body weight) who are infected by HIV and 


who have not used antiretroviral medicines before. 
in certain patients who have used antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine 
this). 
Darunavir Krka must be taken in combination with a low dose of ritonavir and other anti-HIV 
medicines. Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of medicines is best for you.
2. What you need to know before you take Darunavir Krka
Do not take Darunavir Krka

if you are allergic to darunavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 
6),
if you have severe liver problems. Ask your doctor if you are unsure about the severity of your 
liver disease. Some additional tests might be necessary. 

Do not combine Darunavir Krka with any of the following medicines 
If you are taking any of these, ask your doctor about switching to another medicine.
Medicine 
Avanafil 
Purpose of the medicine 
to treat erectile dysfunction 
91
Astemizole or terfenadine 
Triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) 
midazolam 
Cisapride 
Colchicine (if you have kidney and/or liver 
problems) 
Lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapine or 
sertindole 
Ergot alkaloids like ergotamine, 
dihydroergotamine, ergometrine and 
methylergonovine 
Amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone,
ivabradine, quinidine, ranolazine 
Lovastatin, simvastatin and lomitapide
Rifampicin 
The combination product 
lopinavir/ritonavir 
Elbasvir/grazoprevir 
Alfuzosin 
Sildenafil 
Ticagrelor
Naloxegol
Dapoxetine
Domperidone
to treat allergy symptoms 
to help you sleep and/or relieve anxiety 
to treat some stomach conditions 
to treat gout or familial Mediterranean 
fever 
to treat psychiatric conditions 
to treat migraine headaches 
to treat certain heart disorders e.g. 
abnormal heart beat 
to lower cholesterol levels 
to treat some infections such as 
tuberculosis 
this anti-HIV medicine belongs to the 
same class as Darunavir Krka 
to treat hepatitis C infection 
to treat enlarged prostate 
to treat high blood pressure in the
pulmonary circulation 
to help stop the clumping of platelets in 
the treatment of patients with a history of a 
heart attack 
to treat opioid induced constipation
to treat premature ejaculation
to treat nausea and vomiting
Do not combine Darunavir Krka with products that contain St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum). 
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Darunavir Krka. 
Darunavir Krka is not a cure for HIV infection.
People taking Darunavir Krka may still develop infections or other illnesses associated with HIV 
infection. You must keep in regular contact with your doctor. 
People taking Darunavir Krka may develop a skin rash. Infrequently a rash may become severe or 
potentially life-threatening. Please contact your doctor whenever you develop a rash. 
In patients taking Darunavir Krka and raltegravir (for HIV infection), rashes (generally mild or 
moderate) may occur more frequently than in patients taking either medicine separately. 
Tell your doctor about your situation BEFORE and DURING your treatment 
Make sure that you check the following points and tell your doctor if any of these apply to you. 
Tell your doctor if you have had problems with your liver before, including hepatitis B or C 
infection. Your doctor may evaluate how severe your liver disease is before deciding if you can take 
Darunavir Krka. 


Tell your doctor if you have diabetes. Darunavir Krka might increase sugar levels in the blood. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any symptoms of infection (for example enlarged 
lymph nodes and fever). In some patients with advanced HIV infection and a history of 
opportunistic infection, signs and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may 
occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an 
improvement in the body’s immune response, enabling the body to fight infections that may 
92




have been present with no obvious symptoms. 
In addition to the opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when 
the immune system attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines 
for the treatment of your HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after 
the start of treatment. If you notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as 
muscle weakness, weakness beginning in the hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of 
the body, palpitations, tremor or hyperactivity, please inform your doctor immediately to seek 
necessary treatment. 
Tell your doctor if you have haemophilia. Darunavir Krka might increase the risk of bleeding. 
Tell your doctor if you are allergic to sulphonamides (e.g. used to treat certain infections). 
Tell your doctor if you notice any musculoskeletal problems. Some patients taking 
combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called osteonecrosis (death of 
bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of combination 
antiretroviral therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe immunosuppression, 
higher body mass index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for developing 
this disease. Signs of osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches and pains (especially of the hip, 
knee and shoulder) and difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please 
inform your doctor. 
Elderly
Darunavir Krka has only been used in limited numbers of patients 65 years or older. If you belong to 
this age group, please discuss with your doctor if you can use Darunavir Krka.
Children and adolescents 
The Darunavir Krka 400 or 800 milligram tablet is not for use in children younger than 3 years of age 
or weighing less than 40 kilograms. 
Other medicines and Darunavir Krka 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines. 
There are some medicines that you must not combine with Darunavir Krka. These are mentioned 
above under the heading ‘Do not combine Darunavir Krka with any of the following medicines:’
In most cases, Darunavir Krka can be combined with anti-HIV medicines belonging to another class 
[e.g. NRTIs (nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors), NNRTIs (non-nucleoside reverse 
transcriptase inhibitors), CCR5 antagonists and FIs (fusion inhibitors)]. Darunavir Krka with cobicistat 
or ritonavir has not been tested with all PIs (protease inhibitors) and must not be used with other HIV 
PIs. In some cases dose of other medicines might need to be changed. Therefore always tell your 
doctor if you take other anti-HIV medicines and follow your doctor’s instruction carefully on which 
medicines can be combined. 
The effects of Darunavir Krka might be reduced if you take any of the following products. Tell your 
doctor if you take: 





Phenobarbital, phenytoin (to prevent seizures) 
Dexamethasone (corticosteroid) 
Efavirenz (HIV infection) 
Rifapentine, rifabutin (medicines to treat some infections such as tuberculosis) 
Saquinavir (HIV infection). 
The effects of other medicines might be influenced if you take Darunavir Krka and your doctor might 
want to do some additional blood tests. Tell your doctor if you take: 

Amlodipine, diltiazem, disopyramide, carvedilol, felodipine, flecainide, lidocaine, metoprolol, 
mexiletine, nifedipine, nicardipine, propafenone, timolol, verapamil (for heart disease) as the 
therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines may be increased. 
Apixaban, dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel (to reduce 
clotting of the blood) as their therapeutic effect or side effects may be altered. 

93














Oestrogen-based hormonal contraceptives and hormonal replacement therapy. Darunavir Krka 
might reduce its effectiveness. When used for birth control, alternative methods of non-
hormonal contraception are recommended. 
Ethinylestradiol/drospirenone. Darunavir Krka might increase the risk for elevated potassium 
levels by drospirenone.
Atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin (to lower cholesterol levels). The risk of muscle damage
might be increased. Your doctor will evaluate which cholesterol lowering regimen is best for 
your specific situation. 
Clarithromycin (antibiotic) 
Ciclosporin, everolimus, tacrolimus, sirolimus (for dampening down your immune system) as 
the therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines might be increased.
Corticosteroids including betamethasone, budesonide, fluticasone, mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone. These medicines are used to treat allergies, asthma, inflammatory bowel 
diseases, inflammatory conditions of the skin, eyes, joints and muscles and other inflammatory 
conditions. These medicines are generally taken orally, inhaled, injected or applied to the skin. 
If alternatives cannot be used, its use should only take place after medical evaluation and under 
close monitoring by your doctor for corticosteroid side effects. 
Buprenorphine/naloxone (medicines to treat opioid dependence) 
Salmeterol (medicine to treat asthma) 
Artemether/lumefantrine (a combination medicine to treat malaria) 
Dasatinib, everolimus, irinotecan, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine (to treat cancer) 
Sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil (for erectile dysfunction or to treat a heart and lung disorder 
called pulmonary arterial hypertension) 
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir (to treat hepatitis C infection)
Fentanyl, oxycodone, tramadol (to treat pain)
Fesoterodine, solifenacin (to treat urologic disorders).
Your doctor might want to do some additional blood tests and the dose of other medicines might need 
to be changed since either their own or Darunavir Krka’s therapeutic effect or side effects may be 
influenced when combined. Tell your doctor if you take: 





Dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, warfarin (to reduce clotting of the blood)
Alfentanil (injectable strong and short-acting painkiller that is used for surgical procedures) 
Digoxin (to treat certain heart disorders) 
Clarithromycin (antibiotic) 
Itraconazole, isavuconazole, fluconazole, posaconazole, clotrimazole (to treat fungal 
infections). Voriconazole should only be taken after medical evaluation. 
Rifabutin (against bacterial infections) 
Sildenafil, vardenafil, tadalafil (for erectile dysfunction or high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation) 
Amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline, paroxetine, sertraline, trazodone (to treat 
depression and anxiety) 
Maraviroc (to treat HIV infection) 
Methadone (to treat opiate dependence) 
Carbamazepine, clonazepam (to prevent seizures or to treat certain types of nerve pain) 
Colchicine (to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever) 
Bosentan (to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary circulation) 
Buspirone, clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam, flurazepam, midazolam when used as injection, 
zolpidem (sedative agents) 
Perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine (to treat psychiatric conditions) 
Metformin (to treat type 2 diabetes). 











This is not a complete list of medicines. Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines that you are 
taking. 
Darunavir Krka with food and drink
94
See section 3 ‘How to take Darunavir Krka.’
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Tell your doctor immediately if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant. Pregnant women
should not take Darunavir Krka with ritonavir unless specifically directed by the doctor. Pregnant 
women should not take darunavir with cobicistat.
Because of the potential for side effects in breast-fed infants, women should not breast-feed if they are 
receiving Darunavir Krka.
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed 
on to the baby in breast milk. If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should 
discuss it with your doctor as soon as possible.
Driving and using machines
Do not operate machines or drive if you feel dizzy after taking Darunavir Krka.
3.
How to take Darunavir Krka
Always use this medicine exactly as described in this leaflet or as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has 
told you. Check with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
Even if you feel better, do not stop taking Darunavir Krka or ritonavir without talking to your doctor. 
After therapy has been initiated, the dose or dose form must not be changed or therapy must not be 
stopped without instruction of the doctor. 
Darunavir Krka 400 and 800 milligram tablets are only to be used to construct the once daily 
800 milligram regimen. 
This product is only available as film coated tablets and is thus not suitable for patients who are unable 
to swallow intact tablets, for example young children. For use in these patients, more suitable 
formulations containing darunavir should be checked for their availability.
Dose for adults who have not taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine 
this) 
The usual dose of Darunavir Krka is 800 milligram (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of Darunavir 
Krka or 1 tablet containing 800 milligram of Darunavir Krka) once daily. 
You must take Darunavir Krka every day and always in combination with 100 milligram of ritonavir 
and with food. Darunavir Krka cannot work properly without ritonavir and food. You must eat a meal 
or a snack within 30 minutes prior to taking your Darunavir Krka and ritonavir. The type of food is not 
important. Even if you feel better, do not stop taking Darunavir Krka and ritonavir without talking to 
your doctor. 
Instructions for adults 

Take two 400 milligram tablets at the same time or one 800 milligram tablet, once a day, every 
day. 
Take Darunavir Krka always together with 100 milligram of ritonavir. 
Take Darunavir Krka with food.
Swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk. 
Take your other HIV medicines used in combination with Darunavir Krka and ritonavir as 
recommended by your doctor. 




Dose for adults who have taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine this) 
Maybe you will require a different dose of Darunavir Krka which cannot be administered with these 
400 or 800 milligram tablets. Other strengths of Darunavir Krka are available.
95
The dose is either: 

800 milligram Darunavir Krka (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of Darunavir Krka or 1 tablet 
containing 800 milligram of Darunavir Krka) together with 100 milligram ritonavir once daily. 
OR 

600 milligram Darunavir Krka (1 tablet containing 600 milligram of Darunavir Krka) together 
with 100 milligram ritonavir twice daily. 
Please discuss with your doctor which dose is right for you. 
Dose for children 3 years of age and above with ritonavir, weighing more than 40 kilograms who 
have not taken antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this) 

The usual dose of Darunavir Krka is 800 milligram (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of 
Darunavir Krka or 1 tablet containing 800 milligram of Darunavir Krka) together with 
100 milligram ritonavir once daily. 
Dose for children 3 years of age and above with ritonavir, weighing more than 40 kilograms who 
have taken antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this) 
The dose is either: 

800 milligram Darunavir Krka (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of Darunavir Krka or 1 tablet 
containing 800 milligram of Darunavir Krka) together with 100 milligram ritonavir once daily. 
OR

600 milligram Darunavir Krka (1 tablet containing 600 milligram of Darunavir Krka) together 
with 100 milligram ritonavir twice daily. 
Please discuss with your doctor which dose is right for you. 
Instructions for children 3 years of age and above with ritonavir, weighing more than 40 kilograms 

Take 800 milligram Darunavir Krka (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of Darunavir Krka or 
1 tablet containing 800 milligram of Darunavir Krka) at the same time, once a day, every day. 
Take Darunavir Krka always together with 100 milligram of ritonavir. 
Take Darunavir Krka with food. 
Swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk. 
Take your other HIV medicines used in combination with Darunavir Krka and ritonavir as 
recommended by your doctor. 




If you take more Darunavir Krka than you should 
Contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately. 
If you forget to take Darunavir Krka
If you notice within 12 hours, you must take the tablets immediately. Always take with ritonavir and 
food. If you notice after 12 hours, then skip the intake and take the next doses as usual. Do not take a 
double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you vomit after taking Darunavir Krka and ritonavir
If you vomit within 4 hours of taking the medicine, another dose of Darunavir Krka and ritonavir 
should be taken with food as soon as possible. If you vomit more than 4 hours after taking the 
medicine, then you do not need to take another dose of Darunavir Krka and ritonavir until the next 
regularly scheduled time.
Contact your doctor if you are uncertain about what to do if you miss a dose or vomit.
Do not stop taking Darunavir Krka without talking to your doctor first 
Anti-HIV medicines may make you feel better. Even when you feel better, do not stop taking 
Darunavir Krka. Talk to your doctor first. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
96
4.
Possible side effects
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes. 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor if you develop any of the following side effects
Liver problems that may occasionally be severe have been reported. Your doctor should do blood tests 
before you start Darunavir Krka. If you have chronic hepatitis B or C infection, your doctor should 
check your blood tests more often because you have an increased chance of developing liver problems. 
Talk to your doctor about the signs and symptoms of liver problems. These may include yellowing of 
your skin or whites of your eyes, dark (tea coloured) urine, pale coloured stools (bowel movements), 
nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, or pain, aching, or pain and discomfort on your right side below 
your ribs. 
Skin rash (more often when used in combination with raltegravir), itching. The rash is usually mild to 
moderate. A skin rash might also be a symptom of a rare severe situation. It is important to talk to your 
doctor if you develop a rash. Your doctor will advise you how to deal with your symptoms or whether 
Darunavir Krka must be stopped.
Other severe side effectswere diabetes (common) and inflammation of the pancreas (uncommon). 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 

diarrhoea. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 


vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain or distension, dyspepsia, flatulence 
headache, tiredness, dizziness, drowsiness, numbness, tingling or pain in hands or feet, loss of 
strength, difficulty falling asleep. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 


chest pain, changes in electrocardiogram, rapid heart beating 
decreased or abnormal skin sensibility, pins and needles, attention disturbance, loss of memory, 
problems with your balance 
difficulty breathing, cough, nosebleed, throat irritation 
inflammation of the stomach or mouth, heartburn, retching, dry mouth, discomfort of the 
abdomen, constipation, belching 
kidney failure, kidney stones, difficult discharge of urine, frequent or excessive passage of 
urine, sometimes at night 
urticaria, severe swelling of the skin and other tissues (most often the lips or the eyes), eczema, 
excessive sweating, night sweats, hair loss, acne, scaly skin, colouration of nails 
muscle pain, muscle cramps or weakness, pain in extremity, osteoporosis 
slowing down of the thyroid gland function. This can be seen in a blood test. 
high blood pressure, flushing 
red or dry eyes 
fever, swelling of lower limbs due to fluids, malaise, irritability, pain 
symptoms of infection, herpes simplex 
erectile dysfunction, enlargement of breasts 
sleeping problems, sleepiness, depression, anxiety, abnormal dreams, decrease in sexual drive 












Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people) 

a reaction called DRESS [severe rash, which may be accompanied by fever, fatigue, swelling of 
97
the face or lymph glands, increase of eosinophils (type of white blood cells), effects on liver, 
kidney or lung] 
heart attack, slow heart beating, palpitations 
visual disturbance 
chills, feeling abnormal 
a feeling of confusion or disorientation, altered mood, restlessness 
fainting, epileptic fits, changes or loss of taste 
mouth sores, vomiting blood, inflamation of the lips, dry lips, coated tongue 
running nose 
skin lesions, dry skin 
stiffness of muscles or joints, joint pain with or without inflammation 
changes in some values of your blood cells or chemistry. These can be seen in the results of 
blood and/or urine tests. Your doctor will explain these to you. Examples are: increase in some 
white blood cells
darunavir crystals in the kidney causing kidney disease.











Some side effects are typical for anti-HIV medicines in the same family as Darunavir Krka. These are: 
muscle pain, tenderness or weakness. On rare occasions, these muscle disorders have been 

serious. 
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine.
5.
How to store Darunavir Krka
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the packaging after EXP. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month.
Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
Shelf life after first opening: 3 months.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Darunavir Krka contains
-
-
The active substance is darunavir. Each film-coated tablet contains 400 mg or 800 mg 
darunavir.
The other ingredients are cellulose, microcrystalline; crospovidone, hydroxypropylcellulose;
silica, colloidal anhydrous; silicified microcrystalline cellulose (cellulose, microcrystalline;
silica, colloidal anhydrous) and magnesium stearate (E470b) in the tablet core and poly(vinyl 
alcohol), macrogol, titanium dioxide (E171), talc (E553b), yellow iron oxide (E172) – only for 
400 mg film-coated tablets and red iron oxide (E172) in film coating.
What Darunavir Krka looks like and contents of the pack
Darunavir Krka 400 mg film-coated tablets (tablets):
Yellowish brown, oval, biconvex film-coated tablets (tablets), engraved with a mark S1 on one side. 
Tablet dimension: 17 x 8.5 mm.
98
Darunavir Krka 800 mg film-coated tablets (tablets):
Brownish red, oval, biconvex film-coated tablets (tablets), engraved with a mark S3 on one side. 
Tablet dimension: 20 x 10 mm.
Darunavir Krka 400 mg film-coated tablets are available in bottles containing 30 film-coated tablets (1 
bottle of 30 film-coated tablets), 60 film-coated tablets (2 bottles of 30 film-coated tablets), 90 film-
coated tablets (3 bottles of 30 film-coated tablets) and 180 film-coated tablets (6 bottles of 30 film-
coated tablets) in a box.
Darunavir Krka 800 mg film-coated tablets are available in bottles containing 30 film-coated tablets (1 
bottle of 30 film-coated tablets) and 90 film-coated tablets (3 bottles of 30 film-coated tablets) in a 
box.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto, Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia
Manufacturer
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto, Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia
TAD Pharma GmbH, Heinz-Lohmann-Straβe 5, 27472 Cuxhaven, Germany
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
KRKA Belgium, SA.
Tél/Tel: +32 (0) 487 50 73 62
България
КРКА България ЕООД
Teл.: + 359 (02) 962 34 50
Česká republika
KRKA ČR, s.r.o.
Tel: + 420 (0) 221 115 150
Danmark
KRKA Sverige AB
Tlf: + 46 (0)8 643 67 66 (SE)
Deutschland
TAD Pharma GmbH
Tel: + 49 (0) 4721 606-0
Eesti
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto Eesti filiaal
Tel: + 372 (0) 6 671 658
Ελλάδα
KRKA ΕΛΛΑΣ ΕΠΕ
Τηλ: + 30 2100101613
España
KRKA Farmacéutica, S.L.
Tel: + 34 911 61 03 80
France
KRKA France Eurl
Lietuva
UAB KRKA Lietuva
Tel: + 370 5 236 27 40
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
KRKA Belgium, SA.
Tél/Tel: +32 (0) 487 50 73 62 (BE)
Magyarország
KRKA Magyarország Kereskedelmi Kft.
Tel.: + 36 (1) 355 8490
Malta
E. J. Busuttil Ltd.
Tel: + 356 21 445 885
Nederland
KRKA Belgium, SA.
Tel: +32 (0) 487 50 73 62 (BE)
Norge
KRKA Sverige AB
Tlf: + 46 (0)8 643 67 66 (SE)
Österreich
KRKA Pharma GmbH, Wien
Tel: + 43 (0)1 66 24 300
Polska
KRKA-POLSKA Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: + 48 (0)22 573 7500
Portugal
KRKA Farmacêutica, Sociedade Unipessoal Lda.
99
Tél: + 33 (0)1 57 40 82 25
Tel: + 351 (0)21 46 43 650
Hrvatska
KRKA - FARMA d.o.o.
Tel: + 385 1 6312 100
Ireland
KRKA Pharma Dublin, Ltd.
Tel: + 353 1 413 3710
Ísland
LYFIS ehf.
Sími: + 354 534 3500
Italia
KRKA Farmaceutici Milano S.r.l.
Tel: + 39 02 3300 8841
Κύπρος
KI.PA. (PHARMACAL) LIMITED
Τηλ: + 357 24 651 882
Latvija
KRKA Latvija SIA
Tel: + 371 6 733 86 10
This leaflet was last revised in
România
KRKA Romania S.R.L., Bucharest
Tel: + 4 021 310 66 05
Slovenija
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto
Tel: + 386 (0) 1 47 51 100
Slovenská republika
KRKA Slovensko, s.r.o.
Tel: + 421 (0) 2 571 04 501
Suomi/Finland
KRKA Finland Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 20 754 5330
Sverige
KRKA Sverige AB
Tel: + 46 (0)8 643 67 66 (SE)
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
KRKA Pharma Dublin, Ltd.
Tel: +353 1 413 3710
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
100
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Darunavir Krka 600 mg film-coated tablets
darunavir
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet
1. What Darunavir Krka is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take Darunavir Krka
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take Darunavir Krka
Possible side effects
How to store Darunavir Krka
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Darunavir Krka is and what it is used for
What is Darunavir Krka? 
Darunavir Krka contains the active substance darunavir. Darunavir Krka is an antiretroviral medicine 
used in the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection. It belongs to a group of 
medicines called protease inhibitors. Darunavir Krka works by reducing the amount of HIV in your 
body. This will improve your immune system and reduces the risk of developing illnesses linked to 
HIV infection. 
What it is used for? 
Darunavir Krka is used to treat adults and children of 3 years of age and above, and at least 
15 kilogram body weight who are infected by HIV and who have already used other antiretroviral 
medicines. 
Darunavir Krka must be taken in combination with a low dose of ritonavir and other anti-HIV 
medicines. Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of medicines is best for you.
2. What you need to know before you take Darunavir Krka
Do not take Darunavir Krka

if you are allergic to active substance or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in
section 6),
if you have severe liver problems. Ask your doctor if you are unsure about the severity of your 
liver disease. Some additional tests might be necessary. 

Do not combine Darunavir Krka with any of the following medicines 
If you are taking any of these, ask your doctor about switching to another medicine.
Medicine 
Avanafil 
Astemizole or terfenadine 
Triazolam and oral (taken by mouth)
midazolam 
Purpose of the medicine 
to treat erectile dysfunction 
to treat allergy symptoms 
to help you sleep and/or relieve anxiety 
101
Cisapride 
Colchicine (if you have kidney and/or liver 
problems) 
Lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapine or 
sertindole 
Ergot alkaloids like ergotamine, 
dihydroergotamine, ergometrine and 
methylergonovine 
Amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone,
ivabradine, quinidine, ranolazine 
Lovastatin, simvastatin and lomitapide
Rifampicin 
The combination product lopinavir/ritonavir 
Elbasvir/grazoprevir 
Alfuzosin 
Sildenafil 
Ticagrelor
Naloxegol
Dapoxetine
Domperidone
to treat some stomach conditions 
to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever 
to treat psychiatric conditions 
to treat migraine headaches 
to treat certain heart disorders e.g. abnormal 
heart beat 
to lower cholesterol levels 
to treat some infections such as tuberculosis 
this anti-HIV medicine belongs to the same 
class as Darunavir Krka
to treat hepatitis C infection 
to treat enlarged prostate 
to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation 
to help stop the clumping of platelets in the 
treatment of patients with a history of a heart 
attack 
to treat opioid induced constipation
to treat premature ejaculation
to treat nausea and vomiting
Do not combine Darunavir Krka with products that contain St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Darunavir Krka. 
Darunavir Krka is not a cure for HIV infection.
People taking Darunavir Krka may still develop infections or other illnesses associated with HIV 
infection. You must keep in regular contact with your doctor. 
People taking Darunavir Krka may develop a skin rash. Infrequently a rash may become severe or 
potentially life-threatening. Please contact your doctor whenever you develop a rash. 
In patients taking Darunavir Krka and raltegravir (for HIV infection), rashes (generally mild or 
moderate) may occur more frequently than in patients taking either medicine separately. 
Tell your doctor about your situation BEFORE and DURING your treatment 
Make sure that you check the following points and tell your doctor if any of these apply to you. 

Tell your doctor if you have had problems with your liver before, including hepatitis B or C 
infection. Your doctor may evaluate how severe your liver disease is before deciding if you can 
take Darunavir Krka. 
Tell your doctor if you have diabetes. Darunavir Krka might increase sugar levels in the blood. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any symptoms of infection (for example enlarged 
lymph nodes and fever). In some patients with advanced HIV infection and a history of 
opportunistic infection, signs and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may 
occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an 
improvement in the body’s immune response, enabling the body to fight infections that may 
have been present with no obvious symptoms. 
In addition to the opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when 
the immune system attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines 
for the treatment of your HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after 



102



the start of treatment. If you notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as 
muscle weakness, weakness beginning in the hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of 
the body, palpitations, tremor or hyperactivity, please inform your doctor immediately to seek 
necessary treatment. 
Tell your doctor if you have haemophilia. Darunavir Krka might increase the risk of bleeding.
Tell your doctor if you are allergic to sulphonamides (e.g. used to treat certain infections). 
Tell your doctor if you notice any musculoskeletal problems. Some patients taking 
combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called osteonecrosis (death of 
bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of combination 
antiretroviral therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe immunosuppression, 
higher body mass index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for developing 
this disease. Signs of osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches and pains (especially of the hip, 
knee and shoulder) and difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please 
inform your doctor. 
Elderly
Darunavir Krka has only been used in limited numbers of patients 65 years or older. If you belong to 
this age group, please discuss with your doctor if you can use Darunavir Krka. 
Children and adolescents
Darunavir Krka is not for use in children younger than 3 years of age or weighing less than 
15 kilograms. 
Other medicines and Darunavir Krka
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines. 
There are some medicines that you must not combine with Darunavir Krka. These are mentioned 
above under the heading ‘Do not combine Darunavir Krka with any of the following medicines:’ 
In most cases, Darunavir Krka can be combined with anti-HIV medicines belonging to another class 
[e.g. NRTIs (nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors), NNRTIs (non-nucleoside reverse 
transcriptase inhibitors), CCR5 antagonists and FIs (fusion inhibitors)]. Darunavir Krka with ritonavir 
has not been tested with all PIs (protease inhibitors) and must not be used with other HIV PIs. In some 
cases dose of other medicines might need to be changed. Therefore always tell your doctor if you take 
other anti-HIV medicines and follow your doctor’s instruction carefully on which medicines can be 
combined. 
The effects of Darunavir Krka might be reduced if you take any of the following products. Tell your 
doctor if you take: 





Phenobarbital, phenytoin (to prevent seizures) 
Dexamethasone (corticosteroid) 
Efavirenz (HIV infection)
Rifapentine, rifabutin (medicines to treat some infections such as tuberculosis)
Saquinavir (HIV infection). 
The effects of other medicines might be influenced if you take Darunavir Krka and your doctor might
want to do some additional blood tests. Tell your doctor if you take: 

Amlodipine, diltiazem, disopyramide, carvedilol, felodipine, flecainide, lidocaine, metoprolol, 
mexiletine, nifedipine, nicardipine, propafenone, timolol, verapamil (for heart disease) as the 
therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines may be increased. 
Apixaban, dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel (to reduce 
clotting of the blood) as their therapeutic effect or side effects may be altered. 
Oestrogen-based hormonal contraceptives and hormonal replacement therapy. Darunavir Krka
might reduce its effectiveness. When used for birth control, alternative methods of non-
hormonal contraception are recommended. 
Ethinylestradiol/drospirenone. Darunavir Krka might increase the risk for elevated potassium 



103
levels by drospirenone.
Atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin (to lower cholesterol levels). The risk of muscle damage 
might be increased. Your doctor will evaluate which cholesterol lowering regimen is best for 
your specific situation. 
Clarithromycin (antibiotic) 
Ciclosporin, everolimus, tacrolimus, sirolimus (for dampening down your immune system) as 
the therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines might be increased.
Corticosteroids including betamethasone, budesonide, fluticasone, mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone. These medicines are used to treat allergies, asthma, inflammatory bowel 
diseases, inflammatory conditions of the skin, eyes, joints and muscles and other inflammatory 
conditions. These medicines are generally taken orally, inhaled, injected or applied to the skin. 
If alternatives cannot be used, its use should only take place after medical evaluation and under 
close monitoring by your doctor for corticosteroid side effects. 
Buprenorphine/naloxone (medicines to treat opioid dependence) 
Salmeterol (medicine to treat asthma) 
Artemether/lumefantrine (a combination medicine to treat malaria) 
Dasatinib, everolimus, irinotecan, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine (to treat cancer) 
Sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil (for erectile dysfunction or to treat a heart and lung disorder 
called pulmonary arterial hypertension) 
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir (to treat hepatitis C infection)
Fentanyl, oxycodone, tramadol (to treat pain)
Fesoterodine, solifenacin (to treat urologic disorders).












Your doctor might want to do some additional blood tests and the dose of other medicines might need 
to be changed since either their own or Darunavir Krka’s therapeutic effect or side effects may be 
influenced when combined. Tell your doctor if you take: 





Dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, warfarin (to reduce clotting of the blood)
Alfentanil (injectable strong and short-acting painkiller that is used for surgical procedures) 
Digoxin (to treat certain heart disorders) 
Clarithromycin (antibiotic) 
Itraconazole, isavuconazole, fluconazole, posaconazole, clotrimazole (to treat fungal 
infections). Voriconazole should only be taken after medical evaluation. 
Rifabutin (against bacterial infections) 
Sildenafil, vardenafil, tadalafil (for erectile dysfunction or high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation) 
Amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline, paroxetine, sertraline, trazodone (to treat 
depression and anxiety) 
Maraviroc (to treat HIV infection) 
Methadone (to treat opiate dependence) 
Carbamazepine, clonazepam (to prevent seizures or to treat certain types of nerve pain) 
Colchicine (to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever) 
Bosentan (to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary circulation) 
Buspirone, clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam, flurazepam, midazolam when used as injection, 
zolpidem (sedative agents) 
Perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine (to treat psychiatric conditions). 










This is not a complete list of medicines. Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines that you are 
taking. 
Darunavir Krka with food and drink
See section 3 ‘How to take Darunavir Krka.’
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Tell your doctor immediately if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant. Pregnant women
should not take Darunavir Krka with ritonavir unless specifically directed by the doctor. Pregnant 
104
women should not take darunavir with cobicistat.
Because of the potential for side effects in breast-fed infants, women should not breast-feed if they are 
receiving Darunavir Krka.
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed 
on to the baby in breast milk. If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should 
discuss it with your doctor as soon as possible.
Driving and using machines
Do not operate machines or drive if you feel dizzy after taking Darunavir Krka.
3.
How to take Darunavir Krka
Always use this medicine exactly as described in this leaflet or as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has 
told you. Check with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
Even if you feel better, do not stop taking Darunavir Krka and ritonavir without talking to your doctor.
After therapy has been initiated, the dose or dose form must not be changed or therapy must not be 
stopped without instruction of the doctor. 
Darunavir Krka 600 mg film coated tablets must not be chewed or crushed. This strength is not 
suitable for doses below 600 mg. It is not possible to administer all paediatric doses with this product. 
Other tablet strengths and formulations of darunavir are available.
Dose for adults who have not taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine 
this) 
You will require a different dose of Darunavir Krka which cannot be administered with these 
600 milligram tablets. Other strengths of Darunavir Krka are available.
Dose for adults who have taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine this) 
The dose is either: 

600 milligram Darunavir Krka (1 tablet containing 600 milligram of Darunavir Krka) together 
with 100 milligram ritonavir twice daily. 
OR 

800 milligram Darunavir Krka (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of Darunavir Krka or 1 tablet 
containing 800 milligram of Darunavir Krka) together with 100 milligram ritonavir once daily. 
Darunavir Krka 400 milligram and 800 milligram tablets are only to be used to construct the 
once daily 800 milligram regimen.
Please discuss with your doctor which dose is right for you. 
Instructions for adults 

Take Darunavir Krka always together with ritonavir. Darunavir Krka cannot work properly 
without ritonavir. 
In the morning, take one 600 milligram Darunavir Krka tablet together with 100 milligram 
ritonavir. 
In the evening, take one 600 milligram Darunavir Krka tablet together with 100 milligram 
ritonavir. 
Take Darunavir Krka with food. Darunavir Krka cannot work properly without food. The type 
of food is not important. 
Swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk. 




Dose for children of 3 years of age and above, weighing at least 15 kilograms who have not taken 
antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this) 
105
The doctor will work out the right once daily dose based on the weight of the child (see table below). 
This dose must not exceed the recommended adult dose, which is 800 milligram Darunavir Krka 
together with 100 milligram ritonavir once a day.
The doctor will inform you on how much Darunavir Krka tablets and how much ritonavir (capsules, 
tablets or solution) the child must take.
Darunavir dose is 
Weight 
between 15 and 30 kilograms  600 milligram 
between 30 and 40 kilograms  675 milligram 
more than 40 kilograms 
800 milligram 
a ritonavir oral solution: 80 milligram per milliliter 
One ritonavira dose is
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
Dose for children of 3 years of age and above, weighing at least 15 kilograms who have taken 
antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this) 
The doctor will work out the right dose based on the weight of the child (see table below). The doctor 
will determine if once daily dosing or twice daily dosing is appropriate for the child. This dose must 
not exceed the recommended adult dose, which is 600 milligram Darunavir Krka together with 
100 milligram of ritonavir two times per day or 800 milligram Darunavir Krka together with 
100 milligram ritonavir once a day. The doctor will inform you on how many Darunavir Krka tablets 
and how much ritonavir (capsules, tablets or solution) the child must take. Tablets of lower strengths 
are available to construct the appropriate dosing regimen. 
Your doctor will determine whether Darunavir Krka tablets is right for the child.
Twice daily dosing
Weight 
between 15 and 30 kilograms 
between 30 and 40 kilograms 
more than 40 kilograms* 
One dose is 
375 milligram darunavir + 50 milligram 
ritonavir twice a day 
450 milligram darunavir + 60 milligram 
ritonavir twice a day 
600 milligram darunavir + 100 milligram 
ritonavir twice a day 
* For children aged 12 or more and weighing at least 40 kilograms, your child’s doctor will determine if Darunavir 
Krka 800 milligram once daily dosing may be used. This cannot be administered with these 600 milligram tablets. 
Other strengths of Darunavir Krka are available.
Once daily dosing
Darunavir dose is 
Weight 
between 15 and 30 kilograms  600 milligram 
between 30 and 40 kilograms  675 milligram 
more than 40 kilograms 
800 milligram 
a ritonavir oral solution: 80 milligram per milliliter 
One ritonavira dose is 
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
Instructions for children 

The child must take Darunavir Krka always together with ritonavir. Darunavir Krka cannot 
work properly without ritonavir. 
The child must take the appropriate doses of Darunavir Krka and ritonavir two times per day or 
once a day. If prescribed Darunavir Krka twice daily the child must take one dose in the 
morning, and one dose in the evening. Your child’s doctor will determine the appropriate dosing 
regimen for your child. 
The child must take Darunavir Krka with food. Darunavir Krka cannot work properly without 
food. The type of food is not important. 
The child must swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk. 



If you take more Darunavir Krka than you should
Contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately.
106
If you forget to take Darunavir Krka
If you notice within 6 hours, you must take your missed dose immediately. Always take with 
ritonavir and food. If you notice after 6 hours, then skip the intake and take the next doses as usual. 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you vomit after taking Darunavir Krka and ritonavir
If you vomit within 4 hours of taking the medicine, another dose of Darunavir Krka and ritonavir 
should be taken with food as soon as possible. If you vomit more than 4 hours after taking the 
medicine, then you do not need to take another dose of Darunavir Krka and ritonavir until the next 
regularly scheduled time.
Contact your doctor if you are uncertain about what to do if you miss a dose or vomit.
Do not stop taking Darunavir Krka without talking to your doctor first
Anti-HIV medicine may make you feel better. Even when you feel better, do not stop taking Darunavir 
Krka. Talk to your doctor first. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
4.
Possible side effects
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes. 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor if you develop any of the following side effects
Liver problems that may occasionally be severe have been reported. Your doctor should do blood tests 
before you start Darunavir Krka. If you have chronic hepatitis B or C infection, your doctor should 
check your blood tests more often because you have an increased chance of developing liver problems. 
Talk to your doctor about the signs and symptoms of liver problems. These may include yellowing of 
your skin or whites of your eyes, dark (tea coloured) urine, pale coloured stools (bowel movements), 
nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, or pain, aching, or pain and discomfort on your right side below 
your ribs. 
Skin rash (more often when used in combination with raltegravir), itching. The rash is usually mild to 
moderate. A skin rash might also be a symptom of a rare severe situation. It is therefore important to 
talk to your doctor if you develop a rash. Your doctor will advise you how to deal with your symptoms 
or whether Darunavir Krka must be stopped. 
Other severe side effects were diabetes (common) and inflammation of the pancreas (uncommon).
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 

diarrhoea. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 


vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain or distension, dyspepsia, flatulence 
headache, tiredness, dizziness, drowsiness, numbness, tingling or pain in hands or feet, loss of 
strength, difficulty falling asleep. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 


chest pain, changes in electrocardiogram, rapid heart beating 
decreased or abnormal skin sensibility, pins and needles, attention disturbance, loss of memory, 
problems with your balance 
difficulty breathing, cough, nosebleed, throat irritation 

107











inflammation of the stomach or mouth, heartburn, retching, dry mouth, discomfort of the 
abdomen, constipation, belching 
kidney failure, kidney stones, difficult discharge of urine, frequent or excessive passage of 
urine, sometimes at night 
urticaria, severe swelling of the skin and other tissues (most often the lips or the eyes), eczema, 
excessive sweating, night sweats, hair loss, acne, scaly skin, colouration of nails 
muscle pain, muscle cramps or weakness, pain in extremity, osteoporosis 
slowing down of the thyroid gland function. This can be seen in a blood test. 
high blood pressure, flushing 
red or dry eyes 
fever, swelling of lower limbs due to fluids, malaise, irritability, pain 
symptoms of infection, herpes simplex 
erectile dysfunction, enlargement of breasts 
sleeping problems, sleepiness, depression, anxiety, abnormal dreams, decrease in sexual drive 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people) 

a reaction called DRESS [severe rash, which may be accompanied by fever, fatigue, swelling of 
the face or lymph glands, increase of eosinophils (type of white blood cells), effects on liver, 
kidney or lung] 
heart attack, slow heart beating, palpitations 
visual disturbance 
chills, feeling abnormal 
a feeling of confusion or disorientation, altered mood, restlessness 
fainting, epileptic fits, changes or loss of taste 
mouth sores, vomiting blood, inflammation of the lips, dry lips, coated tongue 
running nose 
skin lesions, dry skin 
stiffness of muscles or joints, joint pain with or without inflammation 
changes in some values of your blood cells or chemistry. These can be seen in the results of 
blood and/or urine tests. Your doctor will explain these to you. Examples are: increase in some 
white blood cells
darunavir crystals in the kidney causing kidney disease.











Some side effects are typical for anti-HIV medicines in the same family as Darunavir Krka. These are:
muscle pain, tenderness or weakness. On rare occasions, these muscle disorders have been 

serious. 
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine.
5.
How to store Darunavir Krka
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the packaging after EXP. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month.
Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture.
Shelf life after first opening: 3 months.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
108
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Darunavir Krka contains
-
-
The active substance is darunavir. Each film-coated tablet contains 600 mg darunavir.
The other ingredients are cellulose, microcrystalline; crospovidone, hydroxypropylcellulose;
silica, colloidal anhydrous; silicified microcrystalline cellulose (cellulose, microcrystalline;, 
silica, colloidal anhydrous ) and magnesium stearate (E470b) in the tablet core and poly(vinyl 
alcohol), macrogol, titanium dioxide (E171), talc (E553b), yellow iron oxide (E172) and red 
iron oxide (E172) in film coating.
What Darunavir Krka looks like and contents of the pack
Film-coated tablets (tablets) are orangish brown, oval, biconvex, engraved with a mark S2 on one side. 
Tablet dimension: 19.5 x 10 mm.
Darunavir Krka is available in bottles containing 30 film-coated tablets (1 bottle of 30 film-coated 
tablets), 60 film-coated tablets (2 bottles of 30 film-coated tablets), 90 film-coated tablets (3 bottles of 
30 film-coated tablets) and 180 film-coated tablets (6 bottles of 30 film-coated tablets) in a boxes.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto, Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia
Manufacturer
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto, Šmarješka cesta 6, 8501 Novo mesto, Slovenia
TAD Pharma GmbH, Heinz-Lohmann-Straβe 5, 27472 Cuxhaven, Germany
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
KRKA Belgium, SA.
Tél/Tel: +32 (0) 487 50 73 62
България
КРКА България ЕООД
Teл.: + 359 (02) 962 34 50
Česká republika
KRKA ČR, s.r.o.
Tel: + 420 (0) 221 115 150
Danmark
KRKA Sverige AB
Tlf: + 46 (0)8 643 67 66 (SE)
Deutschland
TAD Pharma GmbH
Tel: + 49 (0) 4721 606-0
Eesti
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto Eesti filiaal
Tel: + 372 (0) 6 671 658
Ελλάδα
KRKA ΕΛΛΑΣ ΕΠΕ
Lietuva
UAB KRKA Lietuva
Tel: + 370 5 236 27 40
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
KRKA Belgium, SA.
Tél/Tel: +32 (0) 487 50 73 62 (BE)
Magyarország
KRKA Magyarország Kereskedelmi Kft.
Tel.: + 36 (1) 355 8490
Malta
E. J. Busuttil Ltd.
Tel: + 356 21 445 885
Nederland
KRKA Belgium, SA.
Tel: +32 (0) 487 50 73 62 (BE)
Norge
KRKA Sverige AB
Tlf: + 46 (0)8 643 67 66 (SE)
Österreich
KRKA Pharma GmbH, Wien
109
Τηλ: + 30 2100101613
Tel: + 43 (0)1 66 24 300
España
KRKA Farmacéutica, S.L.
Tel: + 34 911 61 03 80
France
KRKA France Eurl
Tél: + 33 (0)1 57 40 82 25
Hrvatska
KRKA - FARMA d.o.o.
Tel: + 385 1 6312 100
Ireland
KRKA Pharma Dublin, Ltd.
Tel: + 353 1 413 3710
Ísland
LYFIS ehf.
Sími: + 354 534 3500
Italia
KRKA Farmaceutici Milano S.r.l.
Tel: + 39 02 3300 8841
Κύπρος
KI.PA. (PHARMACAL) LIMITED
Τηλ: + 357 24 651 882
Latvija
KRKA Latvija SIA
Tel: + 371 6 733 86 10
This leaflet was last revised in
Polska
KRKA-POLSKA Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: + 48 (0)22 573 7500
Portugal
KRKA Farmacêutica, Sociedade Unipessoal Lda.
Tel: + 351 (0)21 46 43 650
România
KRKA Romania S.R.L., Bucharest
Tel: + 4 021 310 66 05
Slovenija
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto
Tel: + 386 (0) 1 47 51 100
Slovenská republika
KRKA Slovensko, s.r.o.
Tel: + 421 (0) 2 571 04 501
Suomi/Finland
KRKA Finland Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 20 754 5330
Sverige
KRKA Sverige AB
Tel: + 46 (0)8 643 67 66 (SE)
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
KRKA Pharma Dublin, Ltd.
Tel: +353 1 413 3710
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
110
