ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 75 mg film-coated tablets  
Darunavir Mylan 150 mg film-coated tablets  
Darunavir Mylan 300 mg film-coated tablets  
Darunavir Mylan 600 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Darunavir Mylan 75 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 75 mg of darunavir.  
Darunavir Mylan 150 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 150 mg of darunavir.  
Darunavir Mylan 300 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 300 mg of darunavir.  
Darunavir Mylan 600 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 600 mg of darunavir.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Darunavir Mylan 75 mg film-coated tablets 
Film-coated tablet. 
White to off-white, oval shaped, biconvex film-coated tablets approximately 9.7 mm by 4.6 mm, 
debossed with ‘M’ on one side and ‘DV1' on the other side. 
Darunavir Mylan 150 mg film-coated tablets 
Film-coated tablet. 
White to off-white, capsule shaped, biconvex film-coated tablets approximately 12.75 mm by 6.3 mm 
debossed with ‘M’ on one side and ‘DV2’ on the other side. 
Darunavir Mylan 300 mg film-coated tablets 
Film-coated tablet. 
White to off-white, oval shaped, biconvex film coated tablets approximately 16.5 mm by 8.2 mm, 
debossed with 'M' on one side of the tablet and 'DV3' on other side. 
Darunavir Mylan 600 mg film-coated tablets 
Film-coated tablet. 
White to off-white, oval shaped, biconvex film-coated tablets approximately 21.2 mm by 10.6 mm, 
debossed with ‘M’ on one side and ‘DV5’ on the other side. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Darunavir, co-administered with low dose ritonavir is indicated in combination with other 
antiretroviral medicinal products for the treatment of patients with human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV-1) infection (see section 4.2). 
Darunavir Mylan 75 mg, 150 mg, 300 mg and 600 mg tablets may be used to provide suitable dose 
regimens (see section 4.2): 
● 
For the treatment of HIV-1 infection in antiretroviral treatment (ART)-experienced adult 
patients, including those that have been highly pre-treated. 
For the treatment of HIV-1 infection in paediatric patients from the age of 3 years and at least 
15 kg body weight. 
● 
In deciding to initiate treatment with darunavir co-administered with low dose ritonavir, careful 
consideration should be given to the treatment history of the individual patient and the patterns of 
mutations associated with different agents. Genotypic or phenotypic testing (when available) and 
treatment history should guide the use of darunavir (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Therapy should be initiated by a healthcare provider experienced in the management of HIV infection. 
After therapy with darunavir has been initiated, patients should be advised not to alter the dosage, dose 
form or discontinue therapy without discussing with their healthcare provider. 
Posology 
Darunavir Mylan must always be given orally with low dose ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic enhancer 
and in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products. The Summary of Product 
Characteristics of ritonavir must, therefore, be consulted prior to initiation of therapy with darunavir. 
ART-experienced adult patients 
The recommended dose regimen is 600 mg twice daily taken with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily taken 
with food. Darunavir Mylan 75 mg, 150 mg, 300 mg and 600 mg tablets can be used to construct the 
twice daily 600 mg regimen. 
The use of 75 mg and 150 mg tablets to achieve the recommended dose is appropriate when there is a 
difficulty in swallowing the 300 mg or 600 mg tablets. Before prescribing darunavir tablets, young 
children should be assessed for the ability to swallow intact tablets. For young children unable to 
swallow tablets, more suitable formulations containing darunavir should be checked for their 
availability. 
ART-naïve adult patients 
For dosage recommendations  in ART-naïve patients see the Summary of Product Characteristics for 
Darunavir Mylan 400 mg and 800 mg tablets. 
ART-naïve paediatric patients (3 to 17 years of age and weighing at least 15 kg) 
The weight-based dose of darunavir and ritonavir in paediatric patients is provided in the table below. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommended dose for treatment-naïve paediatric patients (3 to 17 years) with darunavir 
tablets and ritonavira 
Body weight (kg) 
≥ 15 kg to < 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg to < 40 kg 
≥ 40 kg 
a ritonavir oral solution: 80 mg/ml 
Dose (once daily with food) 
600 mg darunavir/100 mg ritonavir once daily 
675 mg darunavir/100 mg ritonavir once daily 
800 mg darunavir/100 mg ritonavir once daily 
ART-experienced paediatric patients (3 to 17 years of age and weighing at least 15 kg) 
Darunavir twice daily taken with ritonavir taken with food is usually recommended. 
A once daily dose regimen of darunavir taken with ritonavir taken with food may be used in patients 
with prior exposure to antiretroviral medicinal products but without darunavir resistance associated 
mutations (DRV-RAMs)* and who have plasma HIV-1 RNA < 100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell 
count ≥ 100 cells x 106/L. 
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V 
The weight-based dose of darunavir and ritonavir in paediatric patients is provided in the table below. 
The recommended dose of darunavir with low dose ritonavir should not exceed the recommended 
adult dose (600/100 mg twice daily or 800/100 mg once daily). 
Recommended dose for treatment-experienced paediatric patients (3 to 17 years) with darunavir 
tablets and ritonavira 
≥ 30 kg–< 40 kg 
Body weight (kg) 
≥ 15 kg–< 30 kg 
Dose (once daily with food) 
600 mg darunavir/100 mg ritonavir 
once daily 
675 mg darunavir/100 mg ritonavir 
once daily 
800 mg darunavir/100 mg ritonavir 
once daily 
a ritonavir oral solution: 80 mg/ml 
≥ 40 kg 
Dose (twice daily with food) 
375 mg darunavir/50 mg ritonavir 
twice daily 
450 mg darunavir/60 mg ritonavir 
twice daily 
600 mg darunavir/100 mg ritonavir 
twice daily 
For ART-experienced paediatric patients HIV genotypic testing is recommended. However, when HIV 
genotypic testing is not feasible, the darunavir/ritonavir once daily dosing regimen is recommended in 
HIV protease inhibitor-naïve paediatric patients and the twice daily dosing regimen is recommended in 
HIV protease inhibitor-experienced patients. 
Advice on missed doses 
In case a dose of darunavir and/or ritonavir is missed within 6 hours of the time it is usually taken, 
patients should be instructed to take the prescribed dose of darunavir and ritonavir with food as soon 
as possible. If this is noticed later than 6 hours after the time it is usually taken, the missed dose should 
not be taken and the patient should resume the usual dosing schedule. 
This guidance is based on the 15 hour half-life of darunavir in the presence of ritonavir and the 
recommended dosing interval of approximately 12 hours. 
If a patient vomits within 4 hours of taking the medicine, another dose of Darunavir Mylan with 
ritonavir should be taken with food as soon as possible. If a patient vomits more than 4 hours after 
taking the medicine, the patient does not need to take another dose of Darunavir Mylan with ritonavir 
until the next regularly scheduled time. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
Limited information is available in this population, and therefore, darunavir should be used with 
caution in this age group (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
Darunavir is metabolised by the hepatic system. No dose adjustment is recommended in patients with 
mild (Child-Pugh Class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment, however, darunavir 
should be used with caution in these patients. No pharmacokinetic data are available in patients with 
severe hepatic impairment. Severe hepatic impairment could result in an increase of darunavir 
exposure and a worsening of its safety profile. Therefore, darunavir must not be used in patients with 
severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with renal impairment (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
Darunavir/ritonavir should not be used in children with a body weight of less than 15 kg as the dose 
for this population has not been established in a sufficient number of patients (see section 5.1). 
Darunavir/ritonavir should not be used in children below 3 years of age because of safety concerns 
(see sections 4.4 and 5.3). 
The weight-based dose regimen for darunavir and ritonavir is provided in the tables above. 
Pregnancy and postpartum 
No dose adjustment is required for darunavir/ritonavir during pregnancy and postpartum. 
Darunavir/ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential 
risk (see sections 4.4, 4.6 and 5.2). 
Method of administration 
Patients should be instructed to take Darunavir Mylan with low dose ritonavir within 30 minutes after 
completion of a meal. The type of food does not affect the exposure to darunavir (see sections 4.4, 4.5 
and 5.2). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  
Patients with severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment. 
Combination of rifampicin with darunavir with concomitant low dose ritonavir (see section 4.5).  
Co-administration with the combination product lopinavir/ritonavir (see section 4.5). 
Co-administration with herbal preparations containing St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) (see 
section 4.5). 
Co-administration of darunavir with low dose ritonavir, with active substances that are highly 
dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with 
serious and/or life-threatening events. These active substances include e.g.: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
alfuzosin 
amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine, quinidine, ranolazine 
astemizole, terfenadine 
colchicine when used in patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment (see section 4.5) 
ergot derivatives (e.g. dihydroergotamine, ergometrine, ergotamine, methylergonovine) 
elbasvir/grazoprevir 
cisapride 
dapoxetine 
domperidone 
naloxegol 
lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapine, sertindole (see section 4.5) 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
triazolam, midazolam administered orally (for caution on parenterally administered midazolam, 
see section 4.5) 
sildenafil - when used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, avanafil 
simvastatin, lovastatin and lomitapide (see section 4.5) 
ticagrelor (see section 4.5). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Regular assessment of virological response is advised. In the setting of lack or loss of virological 
response, resistance testing should be performed. 
Darunavir must always be given orally with low dose ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic enhancer and in 
combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products (see section 5.2). The Summary of Product 
Characteristics of ritonavir as appropriate, must therefore be consulted prior to initiation of therapy 
with darunavir. 
Increasing the dose of ritonavir from that recommended in section 4.2 did not significantly affect 
darunavir concentrations. It is not recommended to alter the dose of ritonavir. 
Darunavir binds predominantly to α1-acid glycoprotein. This protein binding is concentration- 
dependent indicative for saturation of binding. Therefore, protein displacement of medicinal products 
highly bound to α1-acid glycoprotein cannot be ruled out (see section 4.5). 
ART-experienced patients - once daily dosing 
Darunavir used in combination with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir once daily in ART-experienced 
patients should not be used in patients with one or more darunavir resistance associated mutations 
(DRV-RAMs) or HIV-1 RNA ≥ 100,000 copies/ml or CD4+ cell count < 100 cells x 106/L (see 
section 4.2). Combinations with optimised background regimen (OBRs) other than ≥ 2 NRTIs have 
not been studied in this population. Limited data are available in patients with HIV-1 clades other than 
B (see section 5.1). 
Paediatric population 
Darunavir is not recommended for use in paediatric patients below 3 years of age or less than 15 kg 
body weight (see sections 4.2 and 5.3). 
Pregnancy 
Darunavir/ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential 
risk. Caution should be used in pregnant women with concomitant medications which may further 
decrease darunavir exposure (see sections 4.5 and 5.2). 
Elderly 
As limited information is available on the use of darunavir in patients aged 65 and over, caution 
should be exercised in the administration of darunavir in elderly patients, reflecting the greater 
frequency of decreased hepatic function and of concomitant disease or other therapy (see sections 4.2 
and 5.2). 
Severe skin reactions 
During the darunavir/ritonavir clinical development program (N=3,063), severe skin reactions, which 
may be accompanied with fever and/or elevations of transaminases, have been reported in 0.4% of 
patients. DRESS (Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms) and Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome has been rarely (< 0.1%) reported, and during post-marketing experience toxic epidermal 
necrolysis and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis have been reported. Darunavir should be 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
discontinued immediately if signs or symptoms of severe skin reactions develop. These can include, 
but are not limited to, severe rash or rash accompanied by fever, general malaise, fatigue, muscle or 
joint aches, blisters, oral lesions, conjunctivitis, hepatitis and/or eosinophilia. 
Rash occurred more commonly in treatment-experienced patients receiving regimens containing 
darunavir/ritonavir + raltegravir compared to patients receiving darunavir/ritonavir without raltegravir 
or raltegravir without darunavir (see section 4.8). 
Darunavir contains a sulphonamide moiety. Darunavir Mylan should be used with caution in patients 
with a known sulphonamide allergy. 
Hepatotoxicity 
Drug-induced hepatitis (e.g. acute hepatitis, cytolytic hepatitis) has been reported with darunavir. 
During the darunavir/ritonavir clinical development program (N=3,063), hepatitis was reported in 
0.5% of patients receiving combination antiretroviral therapy with darunavir/ritonavir. Patients with 
pre-existing liver dysfunction, including chronic active hepatitis B or C, have an increased risk for 
liver function abnormalities including severe and potentially fatal hepatic adverse reactions. In case of 
concomitant antiviral therapy for hepatitis B or C, please refer to the relevant product information for 
these medicinal products. 
Appropriate laboratory testing should be conducted prior to initiating therapy with darunavir/ritonavir 
and patients should be monitored during treatment. Increased AST/ALT monitoring should be 
considered in patients with underlying chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, or in patients who have pre- 
treatment elevations of transaminases, especially during the first several months of darunavir/ritonavir 
treatment. 
If there is evidence of new or worsening liver dysfunction (including clinically significant elevation of 
liver enzymes and/or symptoms such as fatigue, anorexia, nausea, jaundice, dark urine, liver 
tenderness, hepatomegaly) in patients using darunavir/ritonavir, interruption or discontinuation of 
treatment should be considered promptly. 
Patients with coexisting conditions 
Hepatic impairment 
The safety and efficacy of darunavir have not been established in patients with severe underlying liver 
disorders and darunavir is therefore contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment. Due to 
an increase in the unbound darunavir plasma concentrations, darunavir should be used with caution in 
patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (see sections 4.2, 4.3 and 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No special precautions or dose adjustments for darunavir/ritonavir are required in patients with renal 
impairment. As darunavir and ritonavir are highly bound to plasma proteins, it is unlikely that they 
will be significantly removed by haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis. Therefore, no special 
precautions or dose adjustments are required in these patients (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Haemophiliac patients 
There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin haematomas and 
haemarthrosis in patients with haemophilia type A and B treated with PIs. In some patients additional 
factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with PIs was continued or 
reintroduced if treatment had been discontinued. A causal relationship has been suggested, although 
the mechanism of action has not been elucidated. Haemophiliac patients should, therefore, be made 
aware of the possibility of increased bleeding. 
Weight and metabolic parameters 
An increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose may occur during antiretroviral 
therapy. Such changes may in part be linked to disease control and life style. For lipids, there is in 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
some cases evidence for a treatment effect, while for weight gain there is no strong evidence relating 
this to any particular treatment. For monitoring of blood lipids and glucose reference is made to 
established HIV treatment guidelines. Lipid disorders should be managed as clinically appropriate. 
Osteonecrosis 
Although the aetiology is considered to be multifactorial (including corticosteroid use, alcohol 
consumption, severe immunosuppression, higher body mass index), cases of osteonecrosis have been 
reported particularly in patients with advanced HIV disease and/or long-term exposure to combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART). Patients should be advised to seek medical advice if they experience 
joint aches and pain, joint stiffness or difficulty in movement. 
Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome 
In HIV infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
pathogens may arise and cause serious clinical conditions, or aggravation of symptoms. Typically, 
such reactions have been observed within the first weeks or months of initiation of CART. Relevant 
examples are cytomegalovirus retinitis, generalised and/or focal mycobacterial infections and 
pneumonia caused by Pneumocystis jirovecii (formerly known as Pneumocystis carinii). Any 
inflammatory symptoms should be evaluated and treatment instituted when necessary. In addition, 
reactivation of herpes simplex and herpes zoster has been observed in clinical studies with darunavir 
co-administered with low dose ritonavir. 
Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have also been reported to 
occur in the setting of immune reactivation; however, the reported time to onset is more variable and 
these events can occur many months after initiation of treatment (see section 4.8). 
Interactions with medicinal products 
Several of the interaction studies have been performed with darunavir at lower than recommended 
doses. The effects on co-administered medicinal products may thus be underestimated and clinical 
monitoring of safety may be indicated. For full information on interactions with other medicinal 
products see section 4.5. 
Efavirenz in combination with boosted darunavir once daily may result in sub-optimal darunavir Cmin. 
If efavirenz is to be used in combination with darunavir, the darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice 
daily regimen should be used (see section 4.5). 
Life-threatening and fatal drug interactions have been reported in patients treated with colchicine and 
strong inhibitors of CYP3A and P-glycoprotein (P-gp; see sections 4.3 and 4.5). 
Darunavir Mylan contains sodium 
Darunavir Mylan 75 mg, 150 mg, 300 mg and 600 mg film-coated tablets contain less than 1 mmol 
sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
Medicinal products that may be affected by darunavir boosted with ritonavir 
Darunavir and ritonavir are inhibitors of CYP3A, CYP2D6 and P-gp. Co-administration of darunavir/ 
ritonavir with medicinal products primarily metabolised by CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 or transported by 
P-gp may result in increased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which could increase or 
prolong their therapeutic effect and adverse reactions. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Co-administration of darunavir/ritonavir with drugs that have active metabolite(s) formed by CYP3A 
may result in reduced plasma concentrations of these active metabolite(s), potentially leading to loss of 
their therapeutic effect (see the Interaction table below). 
Darunavir co-administered with low dose ritonavir must not be combined with medicinal products that 
are highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which increased systemic exposure is associated 
with serious and/or life-threatening events (narrow therapeutic index) (see section 4.3). 
The overall pharmacokinetic enhancement effect by ritonavir was an approximate 14-fold increase in 
the systemic exposure of darunavir when a single dose of 600 mg darunavir was given orally in 
combination with ritonavir at 100 mg twice daily. Therefore, darunavir must only be used in 
combination with low dose ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic enhancer (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
A clinical study utilising a cocktail of medicinal products that are metabolised by cytochromes 
CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 demonstrated an increase in CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 activity and 
inhibition of CYP2D6 activity in the presence of darunavir/ritonavir, which may be attributed to the 
presence of low dose ritonavir. Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir with medicinal products 
which are primarily metabolised by CYP2D6 (such as flecainide, propafenone, metoprolol) may result 
in increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal products, which could increase or prolong their 
therapeutic effect and adverse reactions. Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir with medicinal 
products primarily metabolised by CYP2C9 (such as warfarin) and CYP2C19 (such as methadone) 
may result in decreased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which could decrease or 
shorten their therapeutic effect. 
Although  the  effect  on  CYP2C8  has  only  been  studied  in  vitro,  co-administration  of  darunavir  and 
ritonavir and medicinal products primarily metabolised by CYP2C8 (such as paclitaxel, rosiglitazone, 
repaglinide)  may  result  in  decreased  systemic  exposure  to  such  medicinal  products,  which  could 
decrease or shorten their therapeutic effect. 
Ritonavir inhibits the transporters P-glycoprotein, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3, and co-administration 
with substrates of these transporters can result in increased plasma concentrations of these compounds 
(e.g. dabigatran etexilate, digoxin, statins and bosentan; see the Interaction table below). 
Medicinal products that affect darunavir/ritonavir exposure 
Darunavir and ritonavir are metabolised by CYP3A. Medicinal products that induce CYP3A activity 
would be expected to increase the clearance of darunavir and ritonavir, resulting in lowered plasma 
concentrations of darunavir and ritonavir (e.g. rifampicin, St John’s wort, lopinavir). 
Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir and other medicinal products that inhibit CYP3A may 
decrease the clearance of darunavir and ritonavir and may result in increased plasma concentrations of 
darunavir and ritonavir (e.g. indinavir, azole antifungals like clotrimazole). These interactions are 
described in the interaction table below. 
Interaction table 
Interactions between darunavir/ritonavir and antiretroviral and non-antiretroviral medicinal products 
are listed in the table below. The direction of the arrow for each pharmacokinetic parameter is based 
on the 90% confidence interval of the geometric mean ratio being within (↔), below (↓) or above (↑) 
the 80-125% range (not determined as “ND”). 
Several of the interaction studies (indicated by # in the table below) have been performed at lower than 
recommended doses of darunavir or with a different dosing regimen (see section 4.2 Posology). The 
effects on co-administered medicinal products may thus be underestimated and clinical monitoring of 
safety may be indicated. 
The below list of examples of drug -drug interactions is not comprehensive and therefore the label of 
each drug that is co-administered with darunavir should be consulted for information related to the 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
route of metabolism, interaction pathways, potential risks, and specific actions to be taken with regards 
to co-administration. 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
HIV ANTIRETROVIRALS 
Integrase strand transfer inhibitors 
Dolutegravir 
Interaction Geometric mean change 
(%) 
Recommendations concerning co- 
administration 
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and dolutegravir can 
be used without dose adjustment. 
At present the effect of raltegravir 
on darunavir plasma concentrations 
does not appear to be clinically 
relevant. Darunavir co-administered 
with low dose ritonavir and 
raltegravir can be used without dose 
adjustments. 
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and didanosine can 
be used without dose adjustments. 
Didanosine is to be administered on 
an empty stomach, thus it should be 
administered 1 hour before or 2 
hours after darunavir/ritonavir given 
with food. 
Monitoring of renal function may 
be indicated when darunavir co- 
administered with low dose 
ritonavir is given in combination 
with tenofovir disoproxil, 
particularly in patients with 
underlying systemic or renal 
disease, or in patients taking 
nephrotoxic agents. 
The recommended dose of 
emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide 
is 200/10 mg once daily when used 
with darunavir with low dose 
ritonavir. 
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir can be used with 
these NRTIs without dose 
adjustment. 
Raltegravir 
dolutegravir AUC ↓ 22% dolutegravir 
C24h ↓ 38% dolutegravir Cmax ↓ 11% 
darunavir ↔* 
* Using cross-study comparisons to 
historical pharmacokinetic data 
Some clinical studies suggest 
raltegravir may cause a modest 
decrease in darunavir plasma 
concentrations. 
Nucleo(s/t)ide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) 
Didanosine 
400 mg once daily 
didanosine AUC ↓ 9% 
didanosine Cmin ND  
didanosine Cmax ↓ 16%  
darunavir AUC ↔  
darunavir Cmin ↔  
darunavir Cmax ↔ 
Tenofovir disoproxil 
245 mg once daily‡ 
tenofovir AUC ↑ 22%  
tenofovir Cmin ↑ 37%  
tenofovir Cmax ↑ 24%  
#darunavir AUC ↑ 21%  
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 24%  
#darunavir Cmax ↑ 16% 
(↑ tenofovir from effect on MDR-1 
transport in the renal tubules) 
Emtricitabine/tenofovir 
alafenamide 
Tenofovir alafenamide ↔ 
Tenofovir ↑ 
Abacavir  
Emtricitabine  
Lamivudine  
Stavudine  
Zidovudine 
Not studied. Based on the different 
elimination pathways of the other 
NRTIs zidovudine, emtricitabine, 
stavudine, lamivudine, that are 
primarily renally excreted, and 
abacavir for which metabolism is not 
mediated by CYP450, no interactions 
are expected for these medicinal 
compounds and darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir. 
10 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
Non-nucleo(s/t)ide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) 
Efavirenz 
600 mg once daily 
Interaction Geometric mean change 
(%) 
Recommendations concerning co- 
administration 
efavirenz AUC ↑ 21% 
efavirenz Cmin ↑ 17%  
efavirenz Cmax ↑ 15% 
#darunavir AUC ↓ 13% 
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 31% 
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 15% 
(↑ efavirenz from CYP3A inhibition)  
(↓ darunavir from CYP3A induction) 
Clinical monitoring for central 
nervous system toxicity associated 
with increased exposure to 
efavirenz may be indicated when 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir is given in 
combination with efavirenz. 
Efavirenz in combination with 
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg 
once daily may result in sub-
optimal darunavir Cmin. If efavirenz 
is to be used in combination with 
darunavir/ritonavir, the 
darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg 
twice daily regimen should be used 
(see section 4.4). 
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and etravirine 200 mg 
twice daily can be used without 
dose adjustments. 
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and nevirapine can be 
used without dose adjustments. 
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and rilpivirine can be 
used without dose adjustments. 
Etravirine 
100 mg twice daily 
Nevirapine 
200 mg twice daily 
Rilpivirine 
150 mg once daily 
etravirine AUC ↓ 37%  
etravirine Cmin ↓ 49%  
etravirine Cmax ↓ 32%  
darunavir AUC ↑ 15% 
darunavir Cmin ↔ 
darunavir Cmax ↔ 
nevirapine AUC ↑ 27%  
nevirapine Cmin ↑ 47%  
nevirapine Cmax ↑ 18%  
#darunavir: concentrations were 
consistent with historical data 
(↑ nevirapine from CYP3A inhibition) 
rilpivirine AUC ↑ 130%  
rilpivirine Cmin ↑ 178%  
rilpivirine Cmax ↑ 79%  
darunavir AUC ↔  
darunavir Cmin ↓ 11% 
darunavir Cmax ↔ 
HIV Protease inhibitors (PIs) - without additional co-administration of low dose ritonavir† 
Atazanavir 
300 mg once daily 
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and atazanavir can be 
used without dose adjustments. 
atazanavir AUC ↔  
atazanavir Cmin ↑ 52%  
atazanavir Cmax ↓ 11%  
#darunavir AUC ↔  
#darunavir Cmin ↔  
#darunavir Cmax ↔ 
Atazanavir: comparison of 
atazanavir/ritonavir 300/100 mg once 
daily vs. atazanavir 300 mg once daily 
in combination with darunavir/ritonavir 
400/100 mg twice daily. 
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice 
daily vs. darunavir/ritonavir 
400/100 mg twice daily in combination 
with atazanavir 300 mg once daily. 
11 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
Indinavir 
800 mg twice daily 
Interaction Geometric mean change 
(%) 
indinavir AUC ↑ 23%  
indinavir Cmin ↑ 125%  
indinavir Cmax ↔  
#darunavir AUC ↑ 24%  
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 44%  
#darunavir Cmax ↑ 11% 
Recommendations concerning co- 
administration 
When used in combination with 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir, dose adjustment of 
indinavir from 800 mg twice daily 
to 600 mg twice daily may be 
warranted in case of intolerance. 
Saquinavir 
1,000 mg twice daily 
Indinavir: comparison of 
indinavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg twice 
daily vs. indinavir/darunavir/ritonavir 
800/400/100 mg twice daily. 
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice 
daily vs. darunavir/ritonavir 
400/100 mg in combination with 
indinavir 800 mg twice daily. 
#darunavir AUC ↓ 26%  
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 42%  
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 17%  
saquinavir AUC ↓ 6%  
saquinavir Cmin ↓ 18%  
saquinavir Cmax ↓ 6% 
Saquinavir: comparison of 
saquinavir/ritonavir 1,000/100 mg 
twice daily vs. 
saquinavir/darunavir/ritonavir 
1,000/400/100 mg twice daily. 
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg twice 
daily vs. darunavir/ritonavir 
400/100 mg in combination with 
saquinavir 1,000 mg twice daily. 
It is not recommended to combine 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir with saquinavir. 
HIV Protease inhibitors (PIs) - with co-administration of low dose ritonavir† 
Lopinavir/ritonavir 400/100 
mg twice daily 
lopinavir AUC ↑ 9%  
lopinavir Cmin ↑ 23%  
lopinavir Cmax ↓ 2%  
darunavir AUC ↓ 38%‡  
darunavir Cmin ↓ 51%‡  
darunavir Cmax ↓ 21%‡  
lopinavir AUC ↔  
lopinavir Cmin ↑ 13%  
lopinavir Cmax ↑ 11%  
darunavir AUC ↓ 41%  
darunavir Cmin ↓ 55%  
darunavir Cmax ↓ 21% 
‡ based upon non dose normalised 
values 
Due to a decrease in the exposure 
(AUC) of darunavir by 40%, 
appropriate doses of the 
combination have not been 
established. Hence, concomitant use 
of darunavir co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir and the 
combination product 
lopinavir/ritonavir is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Lopinavir/ritonavir 
533/133.3 mg twice daily 
CCR5 ANTAGONIST 
Maraviroc 
150 mg twice daily 
maraviroc AUC ↑ 305%  
maraviroc Cmin ND  
maraviroc Cmax ↑ 129% 
darunavir, ritonavir concentrations 
were consistent with historical data 
The maraviroc dose should be 
150 mg twice daily when co- 
administered with darunavir with 
low dose ritonavir. 
α1-ADRENORECEPTOR ANTAGONIST 
Alfuzosin 
Based on theoretical considerations 
darunavir is expected to increase 
alfuzosin plasma concentrations. 
(CYP3A inhibition) 
Co-administration of darunavir with 
low dose ritonavir and alfuzosin is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
12 
 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
ANAESTHETIC 
Alfentanil 
Interaction Geometric mean change 
(%) 
Recommendations concerning co- 
administration 
Not studied. The metabolism of 
alfentanil is mediated via CYP3A, and 
may as such be inhibited by darunavir 
co-administered with low dose 
ritonavir. 
The concomitant use with darunavir 
and low dose ritonavir may require 
to lower the dose of alfentanil and 
requires monitoring for risks of 
prolonged or delayed respiratory 
depression. 
ANTIANGINA/ANTIARRHYTHMIC 
Disopyramide  
Flecainide 
Lidocaine  
(systemic) 
Mexiletine  
Propafenone 
Not  studied.  Darunavir  is  expected  to 
increase  these  antiarrhythmic  plasma 
concentrations. 
(CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 inhibition) 
Amiodarone  
Bepridil  
Dronedarone 
Ivabradine, 
Quinidine  
Ranolazine 
Digoxin 
0.4 mg single dose 
digoxin AUC ↑ 61%  
digoxin Cmin ND  
digoxin Cmax ↑ 29% 
(↑ digoxin from probable inhibition of 
P-gp) 
ANTIBIOTIC 
Clarithromycin 500 mg 
twice daily 
clarithromycin AUC ↑ 57% 
clarithromycin Cmin ↑ 174% 
clarithromycin Cmax ↑ 26%  
#darunavir AUC ↓ 13%  
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 1%  
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 17% 
14-OH-clarithromycin concentrations 
were not detectable when combined 
with darunavir/ritonavir. 
(↑ clarithromycin from CYP3A 
inhibition and possible P-gp inhibition) 
ANTICOAGULANT/PLATELET AGGREGATION INHIBITOR 
Apixaban  
Rivaroxaban 
Not studied. Co-administration of 
boosted darunavir with these 
anticoagulants may increase 
concentrations of the anticoagulant. 
(CYP3A and/or P-gp inhibition). 
Caution is warranted and 
therapeutic concentration 
monitoring, if available, is 
recommended for these 
antiarrhythmics when co-
administered with darunavir with 
low dose ritonavir. 
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and amiodarone, 
bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine, 
quinidine, or ranolazine is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Given that digoxin has a narrow 
therapeutic index, it is 
recommended that the lowest 
possible dose of digoxin should 
initially be prescribed in case 
digoxin is given to patients on 
darunavir/ritonavir therapy. The 
digoxin dose should be carefully 
titrated to obtain the desired clinical 
effect while assessing the overall 
clinical state of the subject. 
Caution should be exercised when 
clarithromycin is combined with 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir. 
For patients with renal impairment 
the Summary of Product 
Characteristics for clarithromycin 
should be consulted for the 
recommended dose. 
The use of boosted darunavir with a 
direct anticoagulant (DOAC) that is 
metabolized by CYP3A4 and 
transported by P-gp is not 
recommended as this may lead to an 
increased bleeding risk. 
13 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
Dabigatran  etexilate 
Edoxaban 
Interaction Geometric mean change 
(%) 
dabigatran etexilate (150 mg): 
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg  
single dose: 
dabigatran AUC ↑ 72% 
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 64% 
Recommendations concerning co- 
administration 
Darunavir/ritonavir: 
Clinical monitoring and/or dose 
reduction of the DOAC should be 
considered when a DOAC 
transported by P-gp but not 
metabolised by CYP3A4, including 
dabigatran etexilate and edoxaban, 
is co-administered with 
Darunavir/rtv. 
Concomitant administration of 
boosted darunavir with ticagrelor is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Co-administration of clopidogrel 
with boosted darunavir is not 
recommended. 
Use of other antiplatelets not 
affected by CYP inhibition or 
induction (e.g. prasugrel) is 
recommended. 
It is recommended that the 
international normalised ratio (INR) 
be monitored when warfarin is 
combined with darunavir co-
administered with low dose 
ritonavir. 
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir should not be used in 
combination with these medicines. 
No dose adjustment for 
darunavir/ritonavir is 
recommended. If there is a need to 
combine darunavir/ritonavir and 
carbamazepine, patients should be 
monitored for potential 
carbamazepine-related adverse 
events. Carbamazepine 
concentrations should be monitored 
and its dose should be titrated for 
adequate response. 
Based upon the findings, the 
carbamazepine dose may need to be 
reduced by 25% to 50% in the 
presence of darunavir/ritonavir. 
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when co-
administering boosted darunavir 
with clonazepam. 
Ticagrelor 
Clopidogrel 
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg  
once daily: 
dabigatran AUC ↑ 18% 
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 22% 
Based on theoretical considerations, 
co-administration of boosted darunavir 
with ticagrelor may increase 
concentrations of ticagrelor (CYP3A 
and/or P-glycoprotein inhibition). 
Not studied. Co-administration of 
clopidogrel with boosted darunavir is 
expected to decrease clopidogrel active 
metabolite plasma concentration, 
which may reduce the antiplatelet 
activity of clopidogrel. 
Warfarin 
Not studied. Warfarin concentrations 
may be affected when co-administered 
with darunavir with low dose ritonavir. 
ANTICONVULSANTS 
Phenobarbital  
Phenytoin 
Carbamazepine  
200 mg twice daily 
Not studied. Phenobarbital and 
phenytoin are expected to decrease 
plasma concentrations of darunavir and 
its pharmacoenhancer. 
(induction of CYP450 enzymes) 
carbamazepine AUC ↑ 45% 
carbamazepine Cmin ↑ 54% 
carbamazepine Cmax ↑ 43%  
darunavir AUC ↔  
darunavir Cmin ↓ 15%  
darunavir Cmax ↔ 
Clonazepam 
Not studied. Co-administration of 
boosted darunavir with clonazepam 
may increase concentrations of 
clonazepam. (CYP3A inhibition) 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
ANTIDEPRESSANTS 
Paroxetine 
20 mg once daily 
Interaction Geometric mean change 
(%) 
Recommendations concerning co- 
administration 
Sertraline 
50 mg once daily 
Amitriptyline 
Desipramine  
Imipramine 
Nortriptyline  
Trazodone 
ANTIEMETICS 
Domperidone 
ANTIFUNGALS 
Voriconazole 
Fluconazole  
Isavuconazole  
Itraconazole  
Posaconazole 
Clotrimazole 
paroxetine AUC ↓ 39% 
paroxetine Cmin ↓ 37%  
paroxetine Cmax ↓ 36%  
#darunavir AUC ↔  
#darunavir Cmin ↔  
#darunavir Cmax ↔  
sertraline AUC ↓ 49%  
sertraline Cmin ↓ 49%  
sertraline Cmax ↓ 44%  
#darunavir AUC ↔  
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 6%  
#darunavir Cmax ↔ 
If antidepressants are co- 
administered with darunavir with 
low dose ritonavir, the 
recommended approach is a dose 
titration of the antidepressant based 
on a clinical assessment of 
antidepressant response. In addition, 
patients on a stable dose of these 
antidepressants who start treatment 
with darunavir with low dose 
ritonavir should be monitored for 
antidepressant response. 
Concomitant use of darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir 
and these antidepressants may increase 
concentrations of the antidepressant. 
(CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A inhibition) 
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when co- 
administering darunavir with low 
dose ritonavir with these 
antidepressants and a dose 
adjustment of the antidepressant 
may be needed. 
Co-administration of domperidone 
with boosted darunavir is 
contraindicated. 
Voriconazole should not be 
combined with darunavir co-
administered with low dose 
ritonavir unless an assessment of 
the benefit/risk ratio justifies the use 
of voriconazole. 
Caution is warranted and clinical 
monitoring is recommended. When 
co-administration is required the 
daily dose of itraconazole should 
not exceed 200 mg. 
Not studied. 
Not studied. Ritonavir may decrease 
plasma concentrations of voriconazole. 
(induction of CYP450  enzymes) 
Not studied. Darunavir may increase 
antifungal plasma concentrations and 
posaconazole, isavuconazole, 
itraconazole, or fluconazole may 
increase darunavir concentrations. 
(CYP3A and/or P-gp inhibition) 
Not studied. Concomitant systemic use 
of clotrimazole and darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir 
may increase plasma concentrations of 
darunavir and/or clotrimazole. 
Darunavir AUC24h ↑ 33% (based on 
population pharmacokinetic model) 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
ANTIGOUT MEDICINES 
Colchicine 
Interaction Geometric mean change 
(%) 
Recommendations concerning co- 
administration 
Not studied. Concomitant use of 
colchicine and darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir 
may increase the exposure to 
colchicine. 
(CYP3A and/ or P-gp inhibition) 
A reduction in colchicine dosage or 
an interruption of colchicine 
treatment is recommended in 
patients with normal renal or 
hepatic function if treatment with 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir is required. For 
patients with renal or hepatic 
impairment colchicine with 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir is contraindicated 
(see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
ANTIMALARIALS 
Artemether/Lumefantrine 
80/480 mg, 6 doses at 0, 8, 
24, 36, 48, and 60 hours 
ANTIMYCOBACTERIALS 
Rifampicin  
Rifapentine 
The combination of darunavir and 
artemether/lumefantrine can be used 
without dose adjustments; however, 
due to the increase in lumefantrine 
exposure, the combination should 
be used with caution. 
The combination of rifapentine and 
darunavir with concomitant low 
dose ritonavir is not recommended. 
The combination of rifampicin and 
darunavir with concomitant low 
dose ritonavir is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3). 
artemether AUC ↓ 16% 
artemether Cmin ↔  
artemether Cmax ↓ 18% 
dihydroartemisinin AUC ↓ 18% 
dihydroartemisinin Cmin ↔ 
dihydroartemisinin Cmax ↓ 18% 
lumefantrine AUC ↑ 175% 
lumefantrine Cmin ↑ 126%  
lumefantrine Cmax ↑ 65%  
darunavir AUC ↔ 
darunavir Cmin ↓ 13% 
darunavir Cmax ↔ 
Not studied. Rifapentine and rifampicin 
are strong CYP3A inducers and have 
been shown to cause profound 
decreases in concentrations of other 
protease inhibitors, which can result in 
virological failure and resistance 
development (CYP450 enzyme 
induction). During attempts to 
overcome the decreased exposure by 
increasing the dose of other protease 
inhibitors with low dose ritonavir, a 
high frequency of liver reactions was 
seen with rifampicin. 
16 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
Rifabutin 
150 mg once every other  
day 
** ↑ ND 
** ↔ 
Interaction Geometric mean change 
(%) 
rifabutin AUC** ↑ 55% 
rifabutin Cmin
rifabutin Cmax
darunavir AUC ↑ 53%  
darunavir Cmin ↑ 68%  
darunavir Cmax ↑ 39% 
** sum of active moieties of rifabutin 
(parent drug + 25-O-desacetyl 
metabolite) 
Recommendations concerning co- 
administration 
A dosage reduction of rifabutin by 
75% of the usual dose of 
300 mg/day (i.e. rifabutin 150 mg 
once every other day) and increased 
monitoring for rifabutin related 
adverse events is warranted in 
patients receiving the combination 
with darunavir co- administered 
with ritonavir. In case of safety 
issues, a further increase of the 
dosing interval for rifabutin and/or 
monitoring of rifabutin levels 
should be considered. 
Consideration should be given to 
official guidance on the appropriate 
treatment of tuberculosis in HIV 
infected patients. 
Based upon the safety profile of 
darunavir/ritonavir, the increase in 
darunavir exposure in the presence 
of rifabutin does not warrant a dose 
adjustment for darunavir/ritonavir. 
Based on pharmacokinetic 
modeling, this dosage reduction of 
75% is also applicable if patients 
receive rifabutin at doses other than 
300 mg/day. 
Concentrations of these medicinal 
products may be increased when co-
administered with darunavir with 
low dose ritonavir resulting in the 
potential for increased adverse 
events usually associated with these 
agents. 
Caution should be exercised when 
combining one of these 
antineoplastic agents with darunavir 
with low dose ritonavir. 
Concomitant use of everolimus or 
Irinotecan and darunavir co-
administered with low dose 
ritonavir is not recommended. 
Concomitant administration of 
darunavir with low dose ritonavir 
and quetiapine is contraindicated as 
it may increase quetiapine- related 
toxicity. Increased concentrations of 
quetiapine may lead to coma (see 
section 4.3). 
The interaction trial showed a 
comparable daily systemic exposure 
for rifabutin between treatment at 300 
mg once daily alone and 150 mg once 
every other day in combination with 
darunavir/ritonavir (600/100 mg twice 
daily) with an about 10-fold increase in 
the daily exposure to the active 
metabolite 25-O-desacetylrifabutin. 
Furthermore, AUC of the sum of active 
moieties of rifabutin (parent drug + 25-
O- desacetyl metabolite) was increased 
1.6-fold, while Cmax remained 
comparable. 
Data on comparison with a 150 mg 
once daily reference dose is lacking. 
(Rifabutin is an inducer and substrate 
of CYP3A.) An increase of systemic 
exposure to darunavir was observed 
when darunavir co-administered with 
100 mg ritonavir was co-administered 
with rifabutin (150 mg once every 
other day). 
Not studied. Darunavir is expected to 
increase these antineoplastic plasma 
concentrations. 
(CYP3A inhibition) 
ANTINEOPLASTICS 
Dasatinib  
Nilotinib  
Vinblastine  
Vincristine 
Everolimus  
Irinotecan 
ANTIPSYCHOTICS/NEUROLEPTICS 
Quetiapine 
Not studied. Darunavir is expected to 
increase these antipsychotic plasma 
concentrations. 
(CYP3A inhibition) 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
Perphenazine  
Risperidone  
Thioridazine 
Recommendations concerning co- 
administration 
A dose decrease may be needed for 
these drugs when co-administered 
with darunavir co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir. 
Interaction Geometric mean change 
(%) 
Not studied. Darunavir is expected to 
increase these antipsychotic plasma 
concentrations. 
(CYP3A, CYP2D6 and/or P-gp 
inhibition) 
Lurasidone Pimozide 
Sertindole 
β-BLOCKERS 
Carvedilol  
Metoprolol  
Timolol 
Not studied. Darunavir is expected to 
increase these β-blocker plasma 
concentrations. 
(CYP2D6 inhibition) 
CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS 
Amlodipine  
Diltiazem  
Felodipine  
Nicardipine 
Nifedipine  
Verapamil 
CORTICOSTEROIDS 
Corticosteroids primarily 
metabolised by CYP3A 
(including betamethasone, 
budesonide, fluticasone, 
mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone) 
Not studied. Darunavir co-administered 
with low dose ritonavir can be 
expected to increase the plasma 
concentrations of calcium channel 
blockers. 
(CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 inhibition) 
Fluticasone: in a clinical study where 
ritonavir 100 mg capsules twice daily 
were co-administered with 50 μg 
intranasal fluticasone propionate (4 
times daily) for 7 days in healthy 
subjects, fluticasone propionate plasma 
concentrations increased significantly, 
whereas the intrinsic cortisol levels 
decreased by approximately 86% (90% 
CI 82-89%). Greater effects may be 
expected when fluticasone is inhaled. 
Systemic corticosteroid effects 
including Cushing’s syndrome and 
adrenal suppression have been reported 
in patients receiving ritonavir and 
inhaled or intranasally administered 
fluticasone. The effects of high 
fluticasone systemic exposure on 
ritonavir plasma levels are unknown. 
Other corticosteroids: interaction not 
studied. Plasma concentrations of these 
medicinal products may be increased 
when co-administered with darunavir 
with low dose ritonavir, resulting in 
reduced serum cortisol concentrations. 
Not studied. Dexamethasone may 
decrease plasma concentrations of 
darunavir. (CYP3A induction) 
Dexamethasone (systemic) 
18 
Concomitant administration of 
darunavir with low dose ritonavir 
and lurasidone, pimozide or 
sertindole is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3). 
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when co- 
administering darunavir with β-
blockers. A lower dose of the β-
blocker should be considered. 
Clinical monitoring of therapeutic 
and adverse effects is recommended 
when these medicines are 
concomitantly administered with 
darunavir with low dose ritonavir. 
Concomitant use of darunavir with 
low dose ritonavir and 
corticosteroids (all routes of 
administration) that are metabolised 
by CYP3A may increase the risk of 
development of systemic 
corticosteroid effects, including 
Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal 
suppression. 
Co-administration with CYP3A- 
metabolised corticosteroids is not 
recommended unless the potential 
benefit to the patient outweighs the 
risk, in which case patients should 
be monitored for systemic 
corticosteroid effects. 
Alternative corticosteroids which 
are less dependent on CYP3A 
metabolism e.g. beclomethasone 
should be considered, particularly 
for long term use. 
Systemic  dexamethasone  should  be 
used  with  caution  when  combined 
with darunavir co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir. 
 
 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
ENDOTHELIN RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS 
Bosentan 
Interaction Geometric mean change 
(%) 
Recommendations concerning co- 
administration 
When administered concomitantly 
with darunavir and low dose 
ritonavir, the patient’s tolerability of 
bosentan should be monitored. 
Not studied. Concomitant use of 
bosentan and darunavir co- 
administered with low dose ritonavir 
may increase plasma concentrations of 
bosentan. 
Bosentan is expected to decrease 
plasma concentrations of darunavir 
and/or its pharmacoenhancer. (CYP3A 
induction) 
HEPATITIS C VIRUS (HCV) DIRECT-ACTING ANTIVIRALS 
NS3-4A protease inhibitors 
Elbasvir/grazoprevir 
Darunavir with low dose ritonavir may 
increase the exposure to grazoprevir. 
(CYP3A and OATP1B inhibition). 
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir 
HERBAL PRODUCTS 
St John's wort 
(Hypericum perforatum) 
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted darunavir may increase the 
exposure to glecaprevir and 
pibrentasvir. 
(P-gp, BCRP and/or OATP1B1/3 
inhibition) 
Not studied. St John’s wort is expected 
to decrease the plasma concentrations 
of darunavir and ritonavir. 
(CYP450 induction) 
HMG CO-A REDUCTASE INHIBITORS 
Lovastatin  
Simvastatin 
Not studied. Lovastatin and simvastatin 
are expected to have markedly 
increased plasma concentrations when 
co-administered with darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir. 
(CYP3A inhibition) 
Atorvastatin 
10 mg once daily 
atorvastatin AUC ↑ 3-4 fold 
atorvastatin Cmin ↑ ≈5.5-10 fold 
atorvastatin Cmax ↑ ≈2 fold 
#darunavir/ritonavir 
Concomitant use of darunavir with 
low dose ritonavir and 
elbasvir/grazoprevir is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
It is not recommended to co-
administer boosted darunavir with 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir. 
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir must not be used 
concomitantly with products 
containing St John’s wort 
(Hypericum perforatum) (see 
section 4.3). If a patient is already 
taking St John’s wort, stop St 
John’s wort and if possible check 
viral levels. Darunavir exposure 
(and also ritonavir exposure) may 
increase on stopping St John’s wort. 
The inducing effect may persist for 
at least 2 weeks after cessation of 
treatment with St John’s wort. 
Increased plasma concentrations of 
lovastatin or simvastatin may cause 
myopathy, including 
rhabdomyolysis. Concomitant use 
of darunavir co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir with lovastatin 
and simvastatin is therefore 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
When administration of atorvastatin 
and darunavir co- administered with 
low dose ritonavir is desired, it is 
recommended to start with an 
atorvastatin dose of 10 mg once 
daily. A gradual dose increase of 
atorvastatin may be tailored to the 
clinical response. 
19 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
Pravastatin 
40 mg single dose 
Interaction Geometric mean change 
(%) 
pravastatin AUC ↑ 81%¶  
pravastatin Cmin ND  
pravastatin Cmax ↑ 63% 
¶ an up to five-fold increase was seen in 
a limited subset of subjects 
Rosuvastatin 
10 mg once daily 
rosuvastatin AUC ↑ 48%║ 
rosuvastatin Cmax ↑ 144%║ 
║ based on published data with 
darunavir/ritonavir 
OTHER LIPID MODIFYING AGENTS 
Lomitapide 
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted darunavir is expected to 
increase the exposure of lomitapide 
when co-administered. 
(CYP3A inhibition) 
H2-RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS 
Ranitidine 
150 mg twice daily 
#darunavir AUC ↔ 
#darunavir Cmin ↔  
#darunavir Cmax ↔ 
IMMUNOSUPPRESSANTS 
Ciclosporin  
Sirolimus  
Tacrolimus 
Everolimus 
Not studied. Exposure to these 
immunosuppressants will be increased 
when co-administered with darunavir 
co-administered with low dose 
ritonavir. (CYP3A inhibition) 
INHALED BETA AGONISTS 
Salmeterol 
Not studied. Concomitant use of 
salmeterol and darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir 
may increase plasma concentrations of 
salmeterol. 
Recommendations concerning co- 
administration 
When administration of pravastatin 
and darunavir co-administered with 
low dose ritonavir is required, it is 
recommended to start with the 
lowest possible dose of pravastatin 
and titrate up to the desired clinical 
effect while monitoring for safety. 
When administration of rosuvastatin 
and darunavir co- administered with 
low dose ritonavir is required, it is 
recommended to start with the 
lowest possible dose of rosuvastatin 
and titrate up to the desired clinical 
effect while monitoring for safety. 
Co-administration is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3). 
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir can be co-
administered with H2-receptor 
antagonists without dose 
adjustments. 
Therapeutic drug monitoring of the 
immunosuppressive agent must be 
done when co-administration 
occurs. 
Concomitant use of everolimus and 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir is not recommended. 
Concomitant use of salmeterol and 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir is not recommended. 
The combination may result in 
increased risk of cardiovascular 
adverse event with salmeterol, 
including QT prolongation, 
palpitations and sinus tachycardia. 
NARCOTIC ANALGESICS / TREATMENT OF OPIOID DEPENDENCE 
Methadone 
individual dose ranging  
from 55 mg to 150 mg once 
daily 
R(-) methadone AUC ↓ 16% 
R(-) methadone Cmin ↓ 15%  
R(-) methadone Cmax ↓ 24% 
No adjustment of methadone dosage 
is required when initiating co-
administration with 
darunavir/ritonavir. However, 
increased methadone dose may be 
necessary when concomitantly 
administered for a longer period of 
time due to induction of metabolism 
by ritonavir. 
Therefore, clinical monitoring is 
recommended, as maintenance 
therapy may need to be adjusted in 
some patients. 
20 
 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
Buprenorphine/naloxone 
8/2 mg–16/4 mg once daily 
Interaction Geometric mean change 
(%) 
buprenorphine AUC ↓ 11% 
buprenorphine Cmin ↔  
buprenorphine Cmax ↓ 8%  
norbuprenorphine AUC ↑ 46%  
norbuprenorphine Cmin ↑ 71%  
norbuprenorphine Cmax ↑ 36%  
naloxone AUC ↔ 
naloxone Cmin ND  
naloxone Cmax ↔ 
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted darunavir may increase plasma 
concentrations of these analgesics. 
(CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A inhibition) 
Recommendations concerning co- 
administration 
The clinical relevance of the 
increase in norbuprenorphine 
pharmacokinetic parameters has not 
been established. Dose adjustment 
for buprenorphine may not be 
necessary when co- administered 
with darunavir/ritonavir but a 
careful clinical monitoring for signs 
of opiate toxicity is recommended. 
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when co-
administering boosted darunavir 
with these analgesics. 
Fentanyl  
Oxycodone  
Tramadol 
OESTROGEN-BASED CONTRACEPTIVES 
Drospirenone 
Ethinylestradiol 
(3 mg/0.02 mg once daily) 
Not studied with darunavir/ritonavir. 
Ethinylestradiol 
Norethindrone 
35 μg/1 mg once daily 
ethinylestradiol AUC ↓ 44% β 
ethinylestradiol Cmin ↓ 62% β 
ethinylestradiol Cmax ↓ 32% β 
norethindrone AUC ↓ 14% β 
norethindrone Cmin ↓ 30% β 
norethindrone Cmax ↔ β 
β with darunavir/ritonavir 
OPIOID ANTAGONIST 
Naloxegol 
Not studied. 
PHOSPHODIESTERASE, TYPE 5 (PDE-5) INHIBITORS 
For the treatment of erectile 
dysfunction 
Avanafil  
Sildenafil  
Tadalafil  
Vardenafil 
In an interaction study #, a comparable 
systemic exposure to sildenafil was 
observed for a single intake of 100 mg 
sildenafil alone and a single intake of 
25 mg sildenafil co-administered with 
darunavir and low dose ritonavir. 
When darunavir is coadministered 
with a drospirenone-containing 
product, clinical monitoring is 
recommended due to the potential 
for hyperkalaemia. 
Alternative or additional 
contraceptive measures are 
recommended when oestrogen- 
based contraceptives are co- 
administered with darunavir and 
low dose ritonavir. 
Patients using oestrogens as 
hormone replacement therapy 
should be clinically monitored for 
signs of oestrogen deficiency. 
Co-administration of boosted 
darunavir and naloxegol is 
contraindicated. 
The combination of avanafil and 
darunavir with low dose ritonavir is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Concomitant use of other PDE-5 
inhibitors for the treatment of 
erectile dysfunction with darunavir 
co-administered with low dose 
ritonavir should be done with 
caution. If concomitant use of 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir with sildenafil, 
vardenafil or tadalafil is indicated, 
sildenafil at a single dose not 
exceeding 25 mg in 48 hours, 
vardenafil at a single dose not 
exceeding 2.5 mg in 72 hours or 
tadalafil at a single dose not 
exceeding 10 mg in 72 hours is 
recommended. 
21 
 
 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
For the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial 
hypertension 
Sildenafil  
Tadalafil 
Interaction Geometric mean change 
(%) 
Not studied. Concomitant use of 
sildenafil or tadalafil for the treatment 
of pulmonary arterial hypertension and 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir may increase plasma 
concentrations of sildenafil or tadalafil. 
(CYP3A inhibition) 
Recommendations concerning co- 
administration 
A safe and effective dose of 
sildenafil for the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension co-
administered with darunavir and 
low dose ritonavir has not been 
established. There is an increased 
potential for sildenafil- associated 
adverse events (including visual 
disturbances, hypotension, 
prolonged erection and syncope). 
Therefore, co- administration of 
darunavir with low dose ritonavir 
and sildenafil when used for the 
treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3). Co-administration of 
tadalafil for the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension 
with darunavir and low dose 
ritonavir is not recommended. 
PROTON PUMP INHIBITORS 
Omeprazole 
20 mg once daily 
#darunavir AUC ↔  
#darunavir Cmin ↔  
#darunavir Cmax ↔ 
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir can be co-
administered with proton pump 
inhibitors without dose adjustments. 
SEDATIVES/HYPNOTICS 
Buspirone  
Clorazepate  
Diazepam  
Estazolam  
Flurazepam  
Midazolam  
(parenteral)  
Zolpidem 
Not studied. Sedative/hypnotics are 
extensively metabolised by CYP3A. 
Co-administration with 
darunavir/ritonavir may cause a large 
increase in the concentration of these 
medicines. 
Clinical monitoring is 
recommended when co- 
administering darunavir with these 
sedatives/hypnotics and a lower 
dose of the sedatives/hypnotics 
should be considered. 
If parenteral midazolam is co- 
administered with darunavir co- 
administered with low dose ritonavir it 
may cause a large increase in the 
concentration of this benzodiazepine. 
Data from concomitant use of 
parenteral midazolam with other 
protease inhibitors suggest a possible 
3-4 fold increase in midazolam plasma 
levels. 
If parenteral midazolam is co- 
administered with darunavir with 
low dose ritonavir, it should be 
done in an intensive care unit (ICU) 
or similar setting, which ensures 
close clinical monitoring and 
appropriate medical management in 
case of respiratory depression 
and/or prolonged sedation. Dose 
adjustment for midazolam should be 
considered, especially if more than 
a single dose of midazolam is 
administered. 
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir is contraindicated 
with triazolam or oral midazolam 
(see section 4.3). 
Co-administration of boosted 
darunavir with dapoxetine is 
contraindicated. 
Midazolam (oral) Triazolam 
TREATMENT FOR PREMATURE EJACULATION 
Dapoxetine 
Not studied. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
UROLOGICAL DRUGS 
Fesoterodine  
Solifenacin 
Interaction Geometric mean change 
(%) 
Recommendations concerning co- 
administration 
Not studied. 
Use with caution. Monitor for 
fesoterodine or solifenacin adverse 
reactions, dose reduction of 
fesoterodine or solifenacin may be 
necessary. 
#  Studies have been performed at lower than recommended doses of darunavir or with a different dosing regimen (see 
section 4.2 Posology). 
†  The efficacy and safety of the use of darunavir with 100 mg ritonavir and any other HIV PI (e.g. (fos)amprenavir and 
tipranavir) has not been established in HIV patients. According to current treatment guidelines, dual therapy with 
protease inhibitors is generally not recommended. 
‡  Study was conducted with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg once daily. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
As a general rule, when deciding to use antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV infection in 
pregnant women and consequently for reducing the risk of HIV vertical transmission to the newborn, 
the animal data as well as the clinical experience in pregnant women should be taken into account. 
There are no adequate and well controlled studies on pregnancy outcome with darunavir in pregnant 
women. Studies in animals do not indicate direct harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, 
embryonal/foetal development, parturition or postnatal development (see section 5.3). 
Darunavir co-administered with low dose ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the 
potential benefit justifies the potential risk. 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether darunavir is excreted in human milk. Studies in rats have demonstrated that 
darunavir is excreted in milk and at high levels (1,000 mg/kg/day) resulted in toxicity of the offspring. 
Because of the potential for adverse reactions in breast-fed infants, women should be instructed not to 
breast-feed if they are receiving darunavir. 
In order to avoid transmission of HIV to the infant it is recommended that women living with HIV do 
not breast-feed. 
Fertility 
No human data on the effect of darunavir on fertility are available. There was no effect on mating or 
fertility with darunavir treatment in rats (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Darunavir in combination with ritonavir has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use 
machines. However, dizziness has been reported in some patients during treatment with regimens 
containing darunavir co-administered with low dose ritonavir and should be borne in mind when 
considering a patient’s ability to drive or operate machinery (see section 4.8). 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
During the clinical development program (N=2,613 treatment-experienced subjects who initiated 
therapy with darunavir/ ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily), 51.3% of subjects experienced at least one 
adverse reaction. The total mean treatment duration for subjects was 95.3 weeks. The most frequent 
adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and as spontaneous reports are diarrhoea, nausea, rash, 
headache and vomiting. The most frequent serious reactions are acute renal failure, myocardial 
infarction, immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, thrombocytopenia, osteonecrosis, 
diarrhoea, hepatitis and pyrexia. 
In the 96 week analysis, the safety profile of darunavir/ ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily in treatment- 
naïve subjects was similar to that seen with darunavir/ ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily in treatment- 
experienced subjects except for nausea which was observed more frequently in treatment-naïve 
subjects. This was driven by mild intensity nausea. No new safety findings were identified in the 
192 week analysis of the treatment-naïve subjects in which the mean treatment duration of darunavir/ 
ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily was 162.5 weeks. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions are listed by system organ class (SOC) and frequency category. Within each 
frequency category, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. Frequency 
categories are defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 
1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000) and not known (frequency cannot be estimated 
from the available data). 
Adverse reactions observed with darunavir/ritonavir in clinical trials and post-marketing 
MedDRA system organ class Frequency category  Adverse reaction 
Infections and infestations 
Uncommon 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Uncommon 
herpes simplex 
thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, anaemia, 
leucopenia 
Rare 
Immune system disorders 
Uncommon 
Endocrine disorders 
Uncommon 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
increased eosinophil count 
immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, 
(drug) hypersensitivity 
hypothyroidism, increased blood thyroid 
stimulating hormone 
diabetes mellitus, hypertriglyceridaemia, 
hypercholesterolaemia, hyperlipidaemia 
gout, anorexia, decreased appetite, decreased 
weight, increased weight, hyperglycaemia, 
insulin resistance, decreased high density 
lipoprotein, increased appetite, polydipsia, 
increased blood lactate dehydrogenase 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA system organ class Frequency category  Adverse reaction 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common  
insomnia 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Nervous system disorders 
Common  
Uncommon 
Rare 
Eye disorders 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Uncommon 
Cardiac disorders 
Uncommon 
Rare 
depression, disorientation, anxiety, sleep 
disorder, abnormal dreams, nightmare, decreased 
libido 
confusional state, altered mood, restlessness 
headache, peripheral neuropathy, dizziness 
lethargy, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, dysgeusia, 
disturbance in attention, memory impairment, 
somnolence 
syncope, convulsion, ageusia, sleep phase rhythm 
disturbance 
conjunctival hyperaemia, dry eye 
visual disturbance 
vertigo 
myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, prolonged 
electrocardiogram QT, tachycardia 
acute myocardial infarction, sinus bradycardia, 
palpitations 
Vascular disorders 
Uncommon 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Uncommon 
hypertension, flushing 
dyspnoea, cough, epistaxis, throat irritation 
Rare 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common  
rhinorrhoea 
diarrhoea 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain, increased 
blood amylase, dyspepsia, abdominal distension, 
flatulence 
pancreatitis, gastritis, gastrooesophageal reflux 
disease, aphthous stomatitis, retching, dry mouth, 
abdominal discomfort, constipation, increased 
lipase, eructation, oral dysaesthesia 
stomatitis, haematemesis, cheilitis, dry lip, coated 
tongue 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA system organ class Frequency category  Adverse reaction 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common  
increased alanine aminotransferase 
Uncommon 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon 
hepatitis, cytolytic hepatitis, hepatic steatosis, 
hepatomegaly, increased transaminase, increased 
aspartate aminotransferase, increased blood 
bilirubin, increased blood alkaline phosphatase, 
increased gamma-glutamyltransferase 
rash (including macular, maculopapular, papular, 
erythematous and pruritic rash), pruritus 
angioedema, generalised rash, allergic dermatitis, 
urticaria, eczema, erythema, hyperhidrosis, night 
sweats, alopecia, acne, dry skin, nail 
pigmentation 
DRESS,  Stevens-Johnson  syndrome,  erythema 
multiforme,  dermatitis,  seborrhoeic  dermatitis, 
skin lesion, xeroderma 
toxic epidermal necrolysis, acute generalised 
exanthematous pustulosis 
myalgia, osteonecrosis, muscle spasms, muscular 
weakness, arthralgia, pain in extremity, 
osteoporosis, increased blood creatine 
phosphokinase 
musculoskeletal stiffness, arthritis, joint stiffness 
acute renal failure, renal failure, nephrolithiasis, 
increased blood creatinine, proteinuria, 
bilirubinuria, dysuria, nocturia, pollakiuria 
Rare 
decreased creatinine renal clearance 
Rare 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Uncommon 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Common 
crystal nephropathy§ 
erectile dysfunction, gynaecomastia 
asthenia, fatigue 
Uncommon 
Rare 
pyrexia, chest pain, peripheral oedema, malaise, 
feeling hot, irritability, pain 
chills, abnormal feeling, xerosis 
§ 
adverse reaction identified in the post-marketing setting. Per the guideline on Summary of Product Characteristics 
(Revision 2, September 2009), the frequency of this adverse reaction in the post-marketing setting was determined using 
the "Rule of 3". 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Rash 
In clinical trials, rash was mostly mild to moderate, often occurring within the first four weeks of 
treatment and resolving with continued dosing. In cases of severe skin reaction see the warning in 
section 4.4. 
During the clinical development program of raltegravir in treatment-experienced patients, rash, 
irrespective of causality, was more commonly observed with regimens containing darunavir/ritonavir 
+ raltegravir compared to those containing darunavir/ritonavir without raltegravir or raltegravir 
without darunavir/ritonavir. Rash considered by the investigator to be drug-related occurred at similar 
rates. The exposure-adjusted rates of rash (all causality) were 10.9, 4.2, and 3.8 per 100 patient-years 
(PYR), respectively; and for drug-related rash were 2.4, 1.1, and 2.3 per 100 PYR, respectively. The 
rashes observed in clinical studies were mild to moderate in severity and did not result in 
discontinuation of therapy (see section 4.4). 
Metabolic parameters 
Weight and levels of blood lipids and glucose may increase during antiretroviral therapy (see 
section 4.4). 
Musculoskeletal abnormalities 
Increased CPK, myalgia, myositis and rarely, rhabdomyolysis have been reported with the use of 
protease inhibitors, particularly in combination with NRTIs. 
Cases of osteonecrosis have been reported, particularly in patients with generally acknowledged risk 
factors,  advanced  HIV  disease  or  long-term  exposure  to  combination  antiretroviral  therapy (CART). 
The frequency of this is unknown (see section 4.4). 
Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome 
In HIV infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
infections may arise. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have 
also been reported; however, the reported time to onset is more variable and these events can occur 
many months after initiation of treatment (see section 4.4). 
Bleeding in haemophiliac patients 
There have been reports of increased spontaneous bleeding in haemophiliac patients receiving 
antiretroviral protease inhibitors (see section 4.4). 
Paediatric population 
The safety assessment in paediatric patients is based on the 48-week analysis of safety data from three 
Phase II trials. The following patient populations were evaluated (see section 5.1): 
● 
80 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 6 to 17 years and weighing at 
least 20 kg who received darunavir tablets with low dose ritonavir twice daily in combination 
with other antiretroviral agents. 
21 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 3 to < 6 years and weighing 
10 kg to < 20 kg (16 participants from 15 kg to < 20 kg) who received darunavir oral suspension 
with low dose ritonavir twice daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents. 
12 ART-naïve HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 12 to 17 years and weighing at least 
40 kg who received darunavir tablets with low dose ritonavir once daily in combination with 
other antiretroviral agents (see section 5.1). 
● 
● 
Overall, the safety profile in these paediatric patients was similar to that observed in the adult 
population. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other special populations 
Patients co-infected with hepatitis B and/or hepatitis C virus 
Among 1,968 treatment-experienced patients receiving darunavir co-administered with ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice daily, 236 patients were co-infected with hepatitis B or C. Co-infected patients were 
more likely to have baseline and treatment emergent hepatic transaminase elevations than those 
without chronic viral hepatitis (see section 4.4). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Human experience of acute overdose with darunavir co-administered with low dose ritonavir is 
limited. Single doses up to 3,200 mg of darunavir as oral solution alone and up to 1,600 mg of the 
tablet formulation of darunavir in combination with ritonavir have been administered to healthy 
volunteers without untoward symptomatic effects. 
There is no specific antidote for overdose with darunavir. Treatment of overdose with darunavir 
consists of general supportive measures including monitoring of vital signs and observation of the 
clinical status of the patient. Since darunavir is highly protein bound, dialysis is unlikely to be 
beneficial in significant removal of the active substance. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antivirals for systemic use, protease inhibitors, ATC code: J05AE10.  
Mechanism of action 
Darunavir is an inhibitor of the dimerisation and of the catalytic activity of the HIV-1 protease (KD of 
4.5 x 10-12M). It selectively inhibits the cleavage of HIV encoded Gag-Pol polyproteins in virus 
infected cells, thereby preventing the formation of mature infectious virus particles. 
Antiviral activity in vitro 
Darunavir exhibits activity against laboratory strains and clinical isolates of HIV-1 and laboratory 
strains of HIV-2 in acutely infected T-cell lines, human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and human 
monocytes/macrophages with median EC50 values ranging from 1.2 to 8.5 nM (0.7 to 5.0 ng/ml). 
Darunavir demonstrates antiviral activity in vitro against a broad panel of HIV-1 group M (A, B, C, D, 
E, F, G) and group O primary isolates with EC50 values ranging from < 0.1 to 4.3 nM. 
These EC50 values are well below the 50% cellular toxicity concentration range of 87 µM to > 
100 µM.  
Resistance 
In vitro selection of darunavir-resistant virus from wild type HIV-1 was lengthy (> 3 years). The selected 
viruses were unable to grow in the presence of darunavir concentrations above 400 nM. 
Viruses selected in these conditions and showing decreased susceptibility to darunavir (range: 23-50-
fold) harboured 2 to 4 amino acid substitutions in the protease gene. The decreased susceptibility to 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
darunavir of the emerging viruses in the selection experiment could not be explained by the emergence 
of these protease mutations. 
The clinical trial data from ART-experienced patients (TITAN trial and the pooled analysis of the 
POWER 1, 2 and 3 and DUET 1 and 2 trials) showed that virologic response to darunavir co- 
administered with low dose ritonavir was decreased when 3 or more darunavir RAMs (V11I, V32I, 
L33F, I47V, I50V, I54L or M, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V) were present at baseline or when these 
mutations developed during treatment. 
Increasing baseline darunavir fold change in EC50 (FC) was associated with decreasing virologic 
response. A lower and upper clinical cut-off of 10 and 40 were identified. Isolates with baseline FC 
≤ 10 are susceptible; isolates with FC > 10 to 40 have decreased susceptibility; isolates with FC > 40 
are resistant (see Clinical results). 
Viruses isolated from patients on darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily experiencing virologic 
failure by rebound that were susceptible to tipranavir at baseline remained susceptible to tipranavir 
after treatment in the vast majority of cases. 
The lowest rates of developing resistant HIV virus are observed in ART-naïve patients who are treated 
for the first time with darunavir in combination with other ART. 
The table below shows the development of HIV 1 protease mutations and loss of susceptibility to PIs 
in virologic failures at endpoint in the ARTEMIS, ODIN and TITAN trials. 
ARTEMIS 
Week 192 
Darunavir/ 
ritonavir  
800/100 mg  
once daily  
N=343 
ODIN 
Week 48 
Darunavir/ 
ritonavir  
800/100 mg once 
daily 
N=294 
Darunavir/ ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice 
daily N=296 
TITAN 
Week 48 
Darunavir/ 
ritonavir  
600/100 mg 
twice daily 
N=298 
Total number of 
virologic failuresa, n (%) 
55 (16.0%) 
65 (22.1%) 
54 (18.2%) 
31 (10.4%) 
Rebounders 
Never suppressed 
subjects 
4/43 
0/42 
0/43 
1/60 
11 (3.7%) 
54 (18.4%) 
39 (11.4%) 
16 (4.7%) 
11 (3.7%) 
43 (14.5%) 
16 (5.4%) 
15 (5.0%) 
Number of subjects with virologic failure and paired baseline/endpoint genotypes, developing mutationsb at 
endpoint, n/N 
Primary (major) PI 
Mutations 
PI RAMs 
Number of subjects with virologic failure and paired baseline/endpoint phenotypes, showing loss of 
susceptibility to PIs at endpoint compared to baseline, n/N 
PI 
darunavir 
3/26 
amprenavir 
0/22 
atazanavir 
0/22 
indinavir 
1/24 
lopinavir 
0/23 
saquinavir 
0/22 
tipranavir 
1/25 
a  TLOVR non-VF censored algorithm based on HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml, except for TITAN (HIV-1 RNA < 400 
0/39 
0/39 
0/39 
0/39 
0/39 
0/39 
0/39 
1/58 
1/58 
2/56 
2/57 
1/58 
0/56 
0/58 
0/41 
0/40 
0/40 
0/40 
0/40 
0/40 
0/41 
10/28 
6/28 
7/60 
4/42 
copies/ml) 
IAS-USA lists 
b 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cross-resistance 
Darunavir FC was less than 10 for 90% of 3,309 clinical isolates resistant to amprenavir, atazanavir, 
indinavir, lopinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir and/or tipranavir showing that viruses resistant to 
most PIs remain susceptible to darunavir. 
In the virologic failures of the ARTEMIS trial no cross-resistance with other PIs was observed.  
Clinical results 
Adult patients 
For clinical trial results in ART-naïve adult patients, refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics 
for Darunavir Mylan 400 mg and 800 mg tablets. 
Efficacy of darunavir 600 mg twice daily co-administered with 100 mg ritonavir twice daily in ART- 
experienced patients 
The evidence of efficacy of darunavir co-administered with ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily) in 
ART-experienced patients is based on the 96 weeks analysis of the Phase III trial TITAN in 
ART-experienced lopinavir naïve patients, on the 48 week analysis of the Phase III trial ODIN in 
ART-experienced patients with no DRV-RAMs, and on the analyses of 96 weeks data from the Phase 
IIb trials POWER 1 and 2 in ART-experienced patients with high level of PI resistance. 
TITAN is a randomised, controlled, open-label Phase III trial comparing darunavir co-administered 
with ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily) versus lopinavir/ritonavir (400/100 mg twice daily) in ART- 
experienced, lopinavir naïve HIV-1 infected adult patients. Both arms used an Optimised Background 
Regimen (OBR) consisting of at least 2 antiretrovirals (NRTIs with or without NNRTIs). 
The table below shows the efficacy data of the 48 week analysis from the TITAN trial. 
TITAN 
Darunavir/ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice 
daily + OBR 
N=298 
70.8% (211) 
Lopinavir/ ritonavir 
400/100 mg twice daily 
+ OBR  
N=297 
60.3% (179) 
Treatment difference 
(95% CI of difference) 
10.5% (2.9; 18.1)b 
88 
81 
Outcomes 
HIV-1 RNA 
< 50 copies/mla 
median CD4+ cell 
count change from 
baseline (x 106/L)c 
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm 
a 
b  Based on a normal approximation of the difference in % response 
c  NC=F 
At 48 weeks non-inferiority in virologic response to the darunavir/ritonavir treatment, defined as the 
percentage of patients with plasma HIV-1 RNA level < 400 and < 50 copies/ml, was demonstrated (at 
the pre-defined 12% non-inferiority margin) for both ITT and OP populations. These results were 
confirmed in the analysis of data at 96 weeks of treatment in the TITAN trial, with 60.4% of patients in 
the darunavir/ritonavir arm having HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml at week 96 compared to 55.2% in the 
lopinavir/ritonavir arm [difference: 5.2%, 95% CI (-2.8; 13.1)]. 
ODIN is a Phase III, randomised, open-label trial comparing darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once 
daily versus darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily in ART-experienced HIV-1 infected patients 
with screening genotype resistance testing showing no darunavir RAMs (i.e. V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, 
I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V, L89V) and a screening HIV-1 RNA > 1,000 copies/ml. 
Efficacy analysis is based on 48 weeks of treatment (see table below). Both arms used an optimised 
background regimen (OBR) of ≥ 2 NRTIs. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes 
HIV-1 RNA 
< 50 copies/mla 
With Baseline HIV-1 
RNA (copies/ml) 
< 100,000 
≥ 100,000 
With Baseline CD4+ 
cell count (x 106/L) 
≥ 100 
< 100 
With HIV-1 clade 
Type B 
Type AE 
Type C 
Otherc 
mean CD4+ cell count 
change from baseline 
(x 106/L)e 
ODIN 
Darunavir/ritonavir 
800/100 mg once daily 
+ OBR  
N=294 
72.1% (212) 
Darunavir/ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice daily 
+ OBR  
N=296 
70.9% (210) 
Treatment difference 
(95% CI of difference) 
1.2% (-6.1; 8.5)b 
77.6% (198/255) 
35.9% (14/39) 
73.2% (194/265) 
51.6% (16/31) 
4.4% (-3.0; 11.9) 
-15.7% (-39.2; 7.7) 
75.1% (184/245) 
57.1% (28/49) 
70.4% (126/179) 
90.5% (38/42) 
72.7% (32/44) 
55.2% (16/29) 
108 
72.5% (187/258) 
60.5% (23/38) 
64.3% (128/199) 
91.2% (31/34) 
78.8% (26/33) 
83.3% (25/30) 
112 
2.6% (-5.1; 10.3) 
-3.4% (-24.5; 17.8) 
6.1% (-3.4; 15.6) 
-0.7% (-14.0; 12.6) 
-6.1% (-2.6; 13.7) 
-28.2% (-51.0; -5.3) 
-5d (-25; 16) 
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm 
a 
b  Based on a normal approximation of the difference in % response 
c  Clades A1, D, F1, G, K, CRF02_AG, CRF12_BF, and CRF06_CPX 
d  Difference in means 
e  Last Observation Carried Forward imputation 
At 48 weeks, virologic response, defined as the percentage of patients with plasma HIV-1 RNA level 
< 50 copies/ml, with darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily treatment was demonstrated to be non-
inferior (at the pre-defined 12% non-inferiority margin) compared to darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg 
twice daily for both ITT and OP populations. 
Darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily in ART-experienced patients should not be used in patients 
with one or more darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs) or HIV-1 RNA ≥ 100,000 
copies/ml or CD4+ cell count < 100 cells x 106/L (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). Limited data is available 
in patients with HIV-1 clades other than B. 
POWER 1 and POWER 2 are randomised, controlled trials comparing darunavir co-administered with 
ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily) with a control group receiving an investigator-selected PI(s) 
regimen in HIV-1 infected patients who had previously failed more than 1 PI containing regimen. An 
OBR consisting of at least 2 NRTIs with or without enfuvirtide (ENF) was used in both trials. 
The table below shows the efficacy data of the 48-week and 96-week analyses from the pooled 
POWER 1 and POWER 2 trials. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Darunavir/ 
ritonavir  
600/100 mg 
twice daily 
n=131 
45.0% 
(59) 
103 
Outcomes 
HIV RNA 
< 50 copies/mla 
CD4+ cell count 
mean change 
from baseline 
(x 106/L)b 
POWER 1 and POWER 2 pooled data 
Week 48 
Control 
n=124 
Treatment 
difference 
11.3% 
(14) 
17 
33.7% 
(23.4%; 44.1%)c 
86 
(57; 114)c 
Darunavir/ 
ritonavir  
600/100 mg 
twice daily 
n=131 
38.9% 
(51) 
133 
Week 96 
Control 
n=124 
Treatment 
difference 
8.9% 
(11) 
15 
30.1% 
(20.1; 40.0)c 
118 
(83.9; 153.4)c 
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm 
a 
b  Last Observation Carried Forward imputation 
c 
95% confidence intervals. 
Analyses of data through 96 weeks of treatment in the POWER trials demonstrated sustained 
antiretroviral efficacy and immunologic benefit. 
Out of the 59 patients who responded with complete viral suppression (< 50 copies/ml) at week 48, 47 
patients (80% of the responders at week 48) remained responders at week 96. 
Baseline genotype or phenotype and virologic outcome 
Baseline genotype and darunavir FC (shift in susceptibility relative to reference) were shown to be a 
predictive factor of virologic outcome. 
Proportion (%) of patients with response (HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml at week 24) to darunavir co- 
administered with ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily) by baseline genotypea, and baseline darunavir 
FC and by use of enfuvirtide (ENF): As treated analysis of the POWER and DUET trials. 
Number of baseline mutationsa 
Baseline DRV FCb 
Response (HIV-1 
RNA < 50 copies/ml 
at week 24) 
%, n/N 
All patients 
Patients with 
no/non-naïve use of 
ENFc 
Patients with naïve 
use of ENFd 
All 
ranges 
0-2 
3 
≥ 4 
All 
ranges 
≤ 10 
10-40 
> 40 
45% 
455/1,014 
54% 
359/660 
39% 
67/172 
12% 
20/171 
45% 
455/1,014 
55% 
364/659 
29% 
59/203 
8% 
9/118 
39% 
290/741 
60% 
165/273 
50% 
238/477 
66% 
121/183 
29% 
35/120 
62% 
32/52 
7% 
10/135 
28% 
10/36 
39% 
290/741 
60% 
165/273 
51% 
244/477 
66% 
120/182 
17% 
25/147 
61% 
34/56 
5% 
5/94 
17% 
4/24 
a  Number of mutations from the list of mutations associated with a diminished response to darunavir/ritonavir (V11I, V32I, 
L33F, I47V, I50V, I54L or M, T74P, L76V, I84V or L89V) 
fold change in EC50 
“Patients with no/non-naïve use of ENF” are patients who did not use ENF or who used ENF but not for the first time 
“Patients with naïve use of ENF” are patients who used ENF for the first time 
b 
c 
d 
Paediatric patients 
For clinical trial results in ART-naïve paediatric patients aged 12 to 17 years, refer to the Summary of 
Product Characteristics for Darunavir Mylan 400 mg and 800 mg tablets. 
ART-experienced paediatric patients from the age of 6 to < 18 years, and weighing at least 20 kg 
DELPHI is an open-label, Phase II trial evaluating the pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability, and 
efficacy of darunavir with low dose ritonavir in 80 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric 
patients aged 6 to 17 years and weighing at least 20 kg. These patients received darunavir/ritonavir 
twice daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents (see section 4.2 for dosage 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
recommendations per body weight). Virologic response was defined as a decrease in plasma HIV-1 
RNA viral load of at least 1.0 log10 versus baseline. 
In the study, patients who were at risk of discontinuing therapy due to intolerance of ritonavir oral 
solution (e.g. taste aversion) were allowed to switch to the capsule formulation. Of the 44 patients 
taking ritonavir oral solution, 27 switched to the 100 mg capsule formulation and exceeded the weight- 
based ritonavir dose without changes in observed safety. 
Outcomes at week 48 
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mla 
CD4+ cell count mean change from baselineb 
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm. 
DELPHI 
Darunavir/ritonavir  
N=80 
47.5% (38) 
147 
a 
b  Non-completer is failure imputation: patients who discontinued prematurely are imputed with a change equal to 0. 
According to the TLOVR non-virologic failure censored algorithm 24 (30.0%) patients experienced 
virological failure, of which 17 (21.3%) patients were rebounders and 7 (8.8%) patients were non- 
responders. 
ART-experienced paediatric patients from the age of 3 to < 6 years 
The pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability and efficacy of darunavir/ritonavir twice daily. in 
combination with other antiretroviral agents in 21 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric patients 
aged 3 to < 6 years and weighing 10 kg to < 20 kg was evaluated in an open-label, Phase II trial, 
ARIEL. Patients received a weight-based twice daily treatment regimen, patients weighing 10 kg to < 
15 kg received darunavir/ritonavir 25/3 mg/kg twice daily, and patients weighing 15 kg to < 20 kg 
received darunavir/ritonavir 375/50 mg twice daily. At week 48, the virologic response, defined as the 
percentage of patients with confirmed plasma viral load < 50 HIV-1 RNA copies/ml, was evaluated in 
16 paediatric patients 15 kg to < 20 kg and 5 paediatric patients 10 kg to < 15 kg receiving 
darunavir/ritonavir in combination with other antiretroviral agents (see section 4.2 for dosage 
recommendations per body weight). 
Outcomes at week 48 
Darunavir/ritonavir 
10 kg to < 15 kg  
15 kg to < 20 kg  
ARIEL 
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mla 
CD4+ percent change from baselineb 
CD4+ cell count mean change from baselineb 
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm. 
a 
b  NC=F 
N=5 
80.0% (4) 
4 
16 
N=16 
81.3% (13) 
4 
241 
Limited efficacy data are available in paediatric patients below 15 kg and no recommendation on a 
posology can be made. 
Pregnancy and postpartum 
Darunavir/ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily or 800/100 mg once daily) in combination with a 
background regimen was evaluated in a clinical trial of 36 pregnant women (18 in each arm) during 
the second and third trimesters, and postpartum. Virologic response was preserved throughout the 
study period in both arms. No mother to child transmission occurred in the infants born to the 
31 subjects who stayed on the antiretroviral treatment through delivery. There were no new clinically 
relevant safety findings compared with the known safety profile of darunavir/ritonavir in HIV-1 
infected adults (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2). 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetic properties of darunavir, co-administered with ritonavir, have been evaluated in 
healthy adult volunteers and in HIV-1 infected patients. Exposure to darunavir was higher in HIV-1 
infected patients than in healthy subjects. The increased exposure to darunavir in HIV-1 infected 
patients compared to healthy subjects may be explained by the higher concentrations of α1-acid 
glycoprotein (AAG) in HIV-1 infected patients, resulting in higher darunavir binding to plasma AAG 
and, therefore, higher plasma concentrations. 
Darunavir is primarily metabolised by CYP3A. Ritonavir inhibits CYP3A, thereby increasing the 
plasma concentrations of darunavir considerably. 
Absorption 
Darunavir was rapidly absorbed following oral administration. Maximum plasma concentration of 
darunavir in the presence of low dose ritonavir is generally achieved within 2.5-4.0 hours. 
The absolute oral bioavailability of a single 600 mg dose of darunavir alone was approximately 37% 
and increased to approximately 82% in the presence of 100 mg twice daily ritonavir. The overall 
pharmacokinetic enhancement effect by ritonavir was an approximate 14-fold increase in the systemic 
exposure of darunavir when a single dose of 600 mg darunavir was given orally in combination with 
ritonavir at 100 mg twice daily (see section 4.4). 
When administered without food, the relative bioavailability of darunavir in the presence of low dose 
ritonavir is 30% lower as compared to intake with food. Therefore, darunavir tablets should be taken 
with ritonavir and with food. The type of food does not affect exposure to darunavir. 
Distribution 
Darunavir is approximately 95% bound to plasma protein. Darunavir binds primarily to plasma α1-acid 
glycoprotein. 
Following intravenous administration, the volume of distribution of darunavir alone was 88.1 ± 59.0 l 
(Mean ± SD) and increased to 131 ± 49.9 l (Mean ± SD) in the presence of 100 mg twice-daily 
ritonavir. 
Biotransformation 
In vitro experiments with human liver microsomes (HLMs) indicate that darunavir primarily 
undergoes oxidative metabolism. Darunavir is extensively metabolised by the hepatic CYP system and 
almost exclusively by isozyme CYP3A4. A 14C-darunavir trial in healthy volunteers showed that a 
majority of the radioactivity in plasma after a single 400/100 mg darunavir with ritonavir dose was due 
to the parent active substance. At least 3 oxidative metabolites of darunavir have been identified in 
humans; all showed activity that was at least 10-fold less than the activity of darunavir against wild 
type HIV. 
Elimination 
After a 400/100 mg 14C-darunavir with ritonavir dose, approximately 79.5% and 13.9% of the 
administered dose of 14C-darunavir could be retrieved in faeces and urine, respectively. Unchanged 
darunavir accounted for approximately 41.2% and 7.7% of the administered dose in faeces and urine, 
respectively. The terminal elimination half-life of darunavir was approximately 15 hours when 
combined with ritonavir. 
The intravenous clearance of darunavir alone (150 mg) and in the presence of low dose ritonavir was 
32.8 l/h and 5.9 l/h, respectively. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken twice daily in 74 treatment- 
experienced paediatric patients, aged 6 to 17 years and weighing at least 20 kg, showed that the 
administered weight-based doses of darunavir/ritonavir resulted in darunavir exposure comparable to 
that in adults receiving darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily (see section 4.2). 
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken twice daily in 14 treatment- 
experienced paediatric patients, aged 3 to < 6 years and weighing at least 15 kg to < 20 kg, showed 
that weight-based dosages resulted in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that achieved in 
adults receiving darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily (see section 4.2). 
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken once daily in 12 ART-naïve 
paediatric patients, aged 12 to < 18 years and weighing at least 40 kg, showed that darunavir/ritonavir 
800/100 mg once daily results in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that achieved in adults 
receiving darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily. Therefore the same once daily dosage may be 
used in treatment-experienced adolescents aged 12 to < 18 years and weighing at least 40 kg without 
darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs)* and who have plasma HIV-1 RNA < 
100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count ≥ 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2). 
*    DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V 
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken once daily in 10 treatment- 
experienced paediatric patients, aged 3 to < 6 years and weighing at least 14 kg to < 20 kg, showed 
that weight-based dosages resulted in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that achieved in 
adults receiving darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily (see section 4.2). In addition, 
pharmacokinetic modeling and simulation of darunavir exposures in paediatric patients across the ages 
of 3 to < 18 years confirmed the darunavir exposures as observed in the clinical studies and allowed 
the identification of weight-based darunavir/ritonavir once daily dosing regimens for paediatric 
patients weighing at least 15 kg that are either ART-naïve or treatment-experienced paediatric patients 
without DRV-RAMs* and who have plasma HIV-1 RNA < 100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count 
≥ 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2). 
* 
DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V 
Elderly 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis in HIV infected patients showed that darunavir pharmacokinetics 
are not considerably different in the age range (18 to 75 years) evaluated in HIV infected patients 
(n=12, age ≥ 65) (see section 4.4). However, only limited data were available in patients above the age 
of 65 year. 
Gender 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis showed a slightly higher darunavir exposure (16.8%) in HIV 
infected females compared to males. This difference is not clinically relevant. 
Renal impairment 
Results from a mass balance study with 14C-darunavir with ritonavir showed that approximately 7.7% 
of the administered dose of darunavir is excreted in the urine unchanged. 
Although darunavir has not been studied in patients with renal impairment, population 
pharmacokinetic analysis showed that the pharmacokinetics of darunavir were not significantly 
affected in HIV infected patients with moderate renal impairment (CrCl between 30-60 ml/min, n=20) 
(see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Hepatic impairment 
Darunavir is primarily metabolised and eliminated by the liver. In a multiple dose study with darunavir 
co-administered with ritonavir (600/100 mg) twice daily, it was demonstrated that the total plasma 
concentrations of darunavir in subjects with mild (Child-Pugh Class A, n=8) and moderate (Child- 
Pugh Class B, n=8) hepatic impairment were comparable with those in healthy subjects. However, 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
unbound darunavir concentrations were approximately 55% (Child-Pugh Class A) and 100% (Child- 
Pugh Class B) higher, respectively. The clinical relevance of this increase is unknown therefore, 
darunavir should be used with caution. The effect of severe hepatic impairment on the 
pharmacokinetics of darunavir has not been studied (see sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4). 
Pregnancy and postpartum 
The exposure to total darunavir and ritonavir after intake of darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice 
daily and darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen was generally 
lower during pregnancy compared with postpartum. However, for unbound (i.e. active) darunavir, the 
pharmacokinetic parameters were less reduced during pregnancy compared to postpartum, due to an 
increase in the unbound fraction of darunavir during pregnancy compared to postpartum. 
Pharmacokinetic results of total darunavir after administration of darunavir/ritonavir at 
600/100 mg twice daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen, during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, the third trimester of pregnancy and postpartum 
Pharmacokinetics of 
total darunavir  
(mean ± SD) 
Cmax, ng/ml 
AUC12h, ng.h/ml 
Cmin, ng/ml 
a  n=11 for AUC12h 
Second trimester of 
pregnancy 
(n=12)a 
4,668 ± 1,097 
39,370 ± 9,597 
1,922 ± 825 
Third trimester of 
pregnancy 
(n=12) 
5,328 ± 1,631 
45,880 ± 17,360 
2,661 ± 1,269 
Postpartum 
(6-12 weeks)  
(n=12) 
6,659 ± 2,364 
56,890 ± 26,340 
2,851 ± 2,216 
Pharmacokinetic results of total darunavir after administration of darunavir/ritonavir at 
800/100 mg once daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen, during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, the third trimester of pregnancy and postpartum 
Pharmacokinetics of 
total darunavir  
(mean ± SD) 
Cmax, ng/ml 
AUC24h, ng.h/ml 
Cmin, ng/ml 
Second trimester of 
pregnancy 
(n=17) 
4,964 ± 1,505 
62,289 ± 16,234 
1,248 ± 542 
Third Trimester of 
pregnancy 
(n=15) 
5,132 ± 1,198 
61,112 ± 13,790 
1,075 ± 594 
Postpartum 
(6-12 weeks)  
(n=16) 
7,310 ± 1,704 
92,116 ± 29,241 
1,473 ± 1,141 
In women receiving darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, mean intra-individual values for total darunavir Cmax, AUC12h and Cmin were 28%, 26% and 
26% lower, respectively, as compared with postpartum; during the third trimester of pregnancy, total 
darunavir Cmax, AUC12h and Cmin values were 18%, 16% lower and 2% higher, respectively, as 
compared with postpartum. 
In women receiving darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, mean intra-individual values for total darunavir Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin were 33%, 31% and 
30% lower, respectively, as compared with postpartum; during the third trimester of pregnancy, total 
darunavir Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin values were 29%, 32% and 50% lower, respectively, as compared 
with postpartum. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Animal toxicology studies have been conducted at exposures up to clinical exposure levels with 
darunavir alone, in mice, rats and dogs and in combination with ritonavir in rats and dogs. 
In repeated-dose toxicology studies in mice, rats and dogs, there were only limited effects of treatment 
with darunavir. In rodents the target organs identified were the haematopoietic system, the blood 
coagulation system, liver and thyroid. A variable but limited decrease in red blood cell-related 
parameters was observed, together with increases in activated partial thromboplastin time. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Changes were observed in liver (hepatocyte hypertrophy, vacuolation, increased liver enzymes) and 
thyroid (follicular hypertrophy). In the rat, the combination of darunavir with ritonavir lead to a small 
increase in effect on RBC parameters, liver and thyroid and increased incidence of islet fibrosis in the 
pancreas (in male rats only) compared to treatment with darunavir alone. In the dog, no major toxicity 
findings or target organs were identified up to exposures equivalent to clinical exposure at the 
recommended dose. 
In a study conducted in rats, the number of corpora lutea and implantations were decreased in the 
presence of maternal toxicity. Otherwise, there were no effects on mating or fertility with darunavir 
treatment up to 1,000 mg/kg/day and exposure levels below (AUC-0.5 fold) of that in human at the 
clinically recommended dose. Up to same dose levels, there was no teratogenicity with darunavir in 
rats and rabbits when treated alone nor in mice when treated in combination with ritonavir. The 
exposure levels were lower than those with the recommended clinical dose in humans. In a pre- and 
postnatal development assessment in rats, darunavir with and without ritonavir, caused a transient 
reduction in body weight gain of the offspring pre-weaning and there was a slight delay in the opening 
of eyes and ears. Darunavir in combination with ritonavir caused a reduction in the number of pups 
that exhibited the startle response on day 15 of lactation and a reduced pup survival during lactation. 
These effects may be secondary to pup exposure to the active substance via the milk and/or maternal 
toxicity. No post weaning functions were affected with darunavir alone or in combination with 
ritonavir. In juvenile rats receiving darunavir up to days 23-26, increased mortality was observed with 
convulsions in some animals. Exposure in plasma, liver and brain was considerably higher than in 
adult rats after comparable doses in mg/kg between days 5 and 11 of age. After day 23 of life, the 
exposure was comparable to that in adult rats. The increased exposure was likely at least partly due to 
immaturity of the drug-metabolising enzymes in juvenile animals. No treatment related mortalities 
were noted in juvenile rats dosed at 1,000 mg/kg darunavir (single dose) on day 26 of age or at 
500 mg/kg (repeated dose) from day 23 to 50 of age, and the exposures and toxicity profile were 
comparable to those observed in adult rats. 
Due to uncertainties regarding the rate of development of the human blood brain barrier and liver 
enzymes, darunavir with low dose ritonavir should not be used in paediatric patients below 3 years of 
age. 
Darunavir was evaluated for carcinogenic potential by oral gavage administration to mice and rats up 
to 104 weeks. Daily doses of 150, 450 and 1,000 mg/kg were administered to mice and doses of 50, 
150 and 500 mg/kg were administered to rats. Dose-related increases in the incidences of 
hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas were observed in males and females of both species. Thyroid 
follicular cell adenomas were noted in male rats. Administration of darunavir did not cause a 
statistically significant increase in the incidence of any other benign or malignant neoplasm in mice or 
rats. The observed hepatocellular and thyroid tumours in rodents are considered to be of limited 
relevance to humans. Repeated administration of darunavir to rats caused hepatic microsomal enzyme 
induction and increased thyroid hormone elimination, which predispose rats, but not humans, to 
thyroid neoplasms. At the highest tested doses, the systemic exposures (based on AUC) to darunavir 
were between 0.4- and 0.7-fold (mice) and 0.7- and 1-fold (rats), relative to those observed in humans 
at the recommended therapeutic doses. 
After 2 years administration of darunavir at exposures at or below the human exposure, kidney 
changes were observed in mice (nephrosis) and rats (chronic progressive nephropathy). 
Darunavir was not mutagenic or genotoxic in a battery of in vitro and in vivo assays including bacterial 
reverse mutation (Ames), chromosomal aberration in human lymphocytes and in vivo micronucleus 
test in mice. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Silica, colloidal anhydrous  
Cellulose microcrystalline  
Crospovidone 
Sodium starch glycolate  
Hypromellose  
Magnesium stearate 
Tablet film-coat 
Polyvinyl alcohol, partially hydrolysed  
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Macrogol  
Talc 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
In-use shelf life after first opening HDPE bottle: 100 days 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Darunavir Mylan 75 mg film-coated tablets 
PVC/PE/PVDC-Al blister pack containing 480 tablets and 480x1 tablets. 
Cold form PVC/Al/OPA-Al blister pack containing 480 tablets and 480x1 tablets.  
HDPE bottle pack with a PP screw cap containing 480 tablets. 
Darunavir Mylan 150 mg film-coated tablets 
PVC/PE/PVDC-Al blister pack containing 240 tablets and 240x1 tablets. 
Cold form PVC/Al/OPA-Al blister pack containing 240 tablets and 240x1 tablets.  
HDPE bottle pack with a PP screw cap containing 60 and 240 tablets. 
Darunavir Mylan 300 mg film-coated tablets 
PVC/PE/PVDC-Al blister pack containing 30, 60 and 120 tablets and 120x1 tablets. 
Cold form PVC/Al/OPA-Al blister pack containing 30, 60 and 120 tablets and 120x1 tablets.  
HDPE bottle pack with a PP screw cap containing 30 and 120 tablets. 
Darunavir Mylan 600 mg film-coated tablets 
PVC/PE/PVDC-Al blister pack containing 30 and 60 tablets and 60x1 tablets. 
Cold form PVC/Al/OPA-Al blister pack containing 30 and 60 tablets and 60x1 tablets. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HDPE bottle pack with a PP screw cap containing 30, 60, 90 tablets.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
No special requirements for disposal. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Darunavir Mylan 75 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/16/1140/001  
EU/1/16/1140/002  
EU/1/16/1140/003  
EU/1/16/1140/004  
EU/1/16/1140/005 
Darunavir Mylan 150 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/16/1140/006  
EU/1/16/1140/007  
EU/1/16/1140/008  
EU/1/16/1140/009 
EU/1/16/1140/010  
EU/1/16/1140/011 
Darunavir Mylan 300 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/16/1140/012  
EU/1/16/1140/013  
EU/1/16/1140/014  
EU/1/16/1140/015  
EU/1/16/1140/016  
EU/1/16/1140/017  
EU/1/16/1140/018  
EU/1/16/1140/019  
EU/1/16/1140/020  
EU/1/16/1140/021 
Darunavir Mylan 600 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/16/1140/030  
EU/1/16/1140/031  
EU/1/16/1140/032  
EU/1/16/1140/033  
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EU/1/16/1140/034  
EU/1/16/1140/035 
EU/1/16/1140/036  
EU/1/16/1140/037  
EU/1/16/1140/038 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 04 January 2017  
Date of latest renewal: 16 September 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 400 mg film-coated tablets  
Darunavir Mylan 800 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Darunavir Mylan 400 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 400 mg of darunavir.  
Darunavir Mylan 800 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 800 mg of darunavir.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Darunavir Mylan 400 mg film-coated tablets 
Film-coated tablet 
White to off-white, oval shaped, biconvex film-coated tablets approximately 19.2 mm by 9.6 mm, 
debossed with ‘M’ on one side and ‘DV4’ on the other side. 
Darunavir Mylan 800 mg film-coated tablets 
Film-coated tablet. 
White to off-white, oval shaped, biconvex film-coated tablets approximately 21.2 mm by 10.6 mm, 
debossed with ‘M’ on one side and ‘DV8' on the other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Darunavir co-administered with low dose ritonavir is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral 
medicinal products for the treatment of patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) 
infection. 
Darunavir co-administered with cobicistat is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral 
medicinal products for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) infection in adults 
and adolescents (aged 12 years and older, weighing at least 40 kg) (see section 4.2). 
Darunavir Mylan 400 mg and 800 mg tablets may be used to provide suitable dose regimens for the 
treatment of HIV-1 infection in adult and paediatric patients from the age of 3 years and at least 40 kg 
body weight who are: 
● 
● 
antiretroviral therapy (ART)-naïve (see section 4.2). 
ART-experienced with no darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs) and who 
have plasma HIV-1 RNA < 100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count ≥ 100 cells x 106/L. In 
deciding to initiate treatment with darunavir in such ART-experienced patients, genotypic 
testing should guide the use of darunavir (see sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1). 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Therapy should be initiated by a healthcare provider experienced in the management of HIV infection. 
After therapy with darunavir has been initiated, patients should be advised not to alter the dosage, dose 
form or discontinue therapy without discussing with their healthcare provider. 
The interaction profile of darunavir depends on whether ritonavir or cobicistat is used as 
pharmacokinetic enhancer. Darunavir may therefore have different contraindications and 
recommendations for concomitant medications depending on whether the compound is boosted with 
ritonavir or cobicistat (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5). 
Posology 
Darunavir must always be given orally with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir as a pharmacokinetic 
enhancer and in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products. The Summary of Product 
Characteristics of cobicistat or ritonavir as appropriate, must therefore be consulted prior to initiation 
of therapy with darunavir. Cobicistat is not indicated for use in twice daily regimens or for use in the 
paediatric population less than 12 years of age weighing less than 40 kg. 
ART-naïve adult patients 
The recommended dose regimen is 800 mg once daily taken with cobicistat 150 mg once daily or 
ritonavir 100 mg once daily taken with food. Darunavir Mylan 400 mg and 800 mg tablets can be used 
to construct the once daily 800 mg regimen. 
ART-experienced adult patients 
The recommended dose regimens are as follows: 
● 
In ART-experienced patients with no darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs)* 
and who have plasma HIV-1 RNA < 100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count ≥ 100 cells x 
106/L (see section 4.1) a regimen of 800 mg once daily with cobicistat 150 mg once daily or 
ritonavir 100 mg once daily taken with food may be used. Darunavir 400 mg and 800 mg tablets 
can be used to construct the once daily 800 mg regimen. 
In all other ART-experienced patients or if HIV-1 genotype testing is not available, the 
recommended dose regimen is 600 mg twice daily taken with ritonavir 100 mg twice daily taken 
with food. See the Summary of Product Characteristics for Darunavir Mylan 75 mg, 150 mg, 
300 mg or 600 mg tablets. 
● 
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V 
ART-naïve paediatric patients (3 to 17 years of age and weighing at least 40 kg) 
The recommended dose regimen is 800 mg once daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily taken with 
food or 800 mg once daily with cobicistat 150 mg once daily taken with food (in adolescent patients 
12 years of age or older). Darunavir Mylan 400 mg and 800 mg tablets can be used to construct the 
once daily 800 mg regimen. The dose of cobicistat to be used with darunavir in children less than 12 
years of age has not been established. 
ART-experienced paediatric patients (3 to 17 years of age and weighing at least 40 kg) 
The dose of cobicistat to be used with darunavir in children less than 12 years of age has not been 
established. 
The recommended dose regimens are as follows: 
● 
In ART-experienced patients without DRV-RAMs* and who have plasma HIV-1 RNA < 
100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count ≥ 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.1) a regimen of 800 
mg once daily with ritonavir 100 mg once daily taken with food or 800 mg once daily with 
cobicistat 150 mg once daily taken with food (in adolescent patients 12 years of age or older) 
may be used. Darunavir Mylan 400 mg and 800 mg tablets can be used to construct the once 
daily 800 mg regimen. The dose of cobicistat to be used with darunavir in children less than 12 
years of age has not been established. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
● 
In all other ART-experienced patients or if HIV-1 genotype testing is not available, the 
recommended dose regimen described in the Summary of Product Characteristics for Darunavir 
Mylan 75 mg, 150 mg, 300 mg and 600 mg tablets. 
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V 
Advice on missed doses 
If a once daily dose of darunavir and/or cobicistat or ritonavir is missed within 12 hours of the time it 
is usually taken, patients should be instructed to take the prescribed dose of darunavir and cobicistat or 
ritonavir with food as soon as possible. If this is noticed later than 12 hours after the time it is usually 
taken, the missed dose should not be taken and the patient should resume the usual dosing schedule. 
This guidance is based on the half-life of darunavir in the presence of cobicistat or ritonavir and the 
recommended dosing interval of approximately 24 hours. 
If a patient vomits within 4 hours of taking the medicine, another dose of Darunavir Mylan with 
cobicistat or ritonavir should be taken with food as soon as possible. If a patient vomits more than 4 
hours after taking the medicine, the patient does not need to take another dose of Darunavir Mylan 
with cobicistat or ritonavir until the next regularly scheduled time. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
Limited information is available in this population, and therefore, darunavir should be used with 
caution in this age group (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Darunavir is metabolised by the hepatic system. No dose adjustment is recommended in patients with 
mild (Child-Pugh Class A) or moderate (Child-Pugh Class B) hepatic impairment, however, darunavir 
should be used with caution in these patients. No pharmacokinetic data are available in patients with 
severe hepatic impairment. Severe hepatic impairment could result in an increase of darunavir 
exposure and a worsening of its safety profile. Therefore, darunavir must not be used in patients with 
severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required for darunavir/ritonavir in patients with renal impairment (see sections 
4.4 and 5.2). Cobicistat has not been studied in patients receiving dialysis, and, therefore, no 
recommendation can be made for the use of darunavir/cobicistat in these patients. 
Cobicistat inhibits the tubular secretion of creatinine and may cause modest increases in serum 
creatinine and modest declines in creatinine clearance. Hence, the use of creatinine clearance as an 
estimate of renal elimination capacity may be misleading. Cobicistat as a pharmacokinetic enhancer of 
darunavir should, therefore, not be initiated in patients with creatine clearance less than 70 ml/min if 
any co-administered agent requires dose adjustment based on creatinine clearance: e.g. emtricitabine, 
lamivudine, tenofovir disoproxil (as fumarate, phosphate or succinate) or adefovir dipovoxil. 
For information on cobicistat, consult the cobicistat Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Paediatric population 
Darunavir should not be used in children 
- 
- 
below 3 years of age, because of safety concerns (see sections 4.4 and 5.3), or, 
less than 15 kg body weight, as the dose for this population has not been established in a 
sufficient number of patients (see section 5.1). 
Darunavir taken with cobicistat should not be used in children aged 3 to 11 years of age weighing 
< 40 kg as the dose of cobicistat to be used in these children has not been established (see sections 4.4 
and 5.3). 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Darunavir Mylan 400 mg and 800 mg tablets are not suitable for this patient population. Other 
formulations are available, see the Summary of Product Characteristics for Darunavir Mylan 75 mg, 
150 mg, 300 mg, 600 mg tablets. 
Pregnancy and postpartum 
No dose adjustment is required for darunavir/ritonavir during pregnancy and postpartum. 
Darunavir/ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential 
risk (see sections 4.4, 4.6 and 5.2). 
Treatment with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg during pregnancy results in low darunavir exposure 
(see sections 4.4 and 5.2). Therefore, therapy with Darunavir/cobicistat should not be initiated during 
pregnancy, and women who become pregnant during therapy with Darunavir/cobicistat should be 
switched to an alternative regimen (see sections 4.4 and 4.6). Darunavir/ritonavir may be considered as 
an alternative. 
Method of administration 
Patients should be instructed to take Darunavir Mylan with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir within 
30 minutes after completion of a meal. The type of food does not affect the exposure to darunavir (see 
sections 4.4, 4.5 and 5.2). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  
Patients with severe (Child-Pugh Class C) hepatic impairment. 
Concomitant treatment with any of the following medicinal products given  the expected decrease  in 
plasma  concentrations  of  darunavir,  ritonavir  and  cobicistat  and  the  potential  for  loss  of  therapeutic 
effect (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Applicable to darunavir boosted with either ritonavir or cobicistat: 
- 
- 
The combination product lopinavir/ritonavir (see section 4.5). 
The strong CYP3A inducers rifampicin and herbal preparations containing St John's wort 
(Hypericum perforatum). Co-administration is expected to reduce plasma concentrations of 
darunavir, ritonavir and cobicistat, which could lead to loss of therapeutic effect and possible 
development of resistance (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Applicable to darunavir boosted with cobicistat, not when boosted with ritonavir: 
- 
Darunavir boosted with cobicistat is more sensitive for CYP3A induction than darunavir 
boosted with ritonavir. Concomitant use with strong CYP3A inducers is contraindicated, since 
these may reduce the exposure to cobicistat and darunavir leading to loss of therapeutic effect. 
Strong CYP3A inducers include e.g. carbamazepine, phenobarbital and phenytoin (see sections 
4.4 and 4.5). 
Darunavir boosted with either ritonavir or cobicistat inhibits the elimination of active substances that 
are highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance, which results in increased exposure to the co- 
administered medicinal product. Therefore, concomitant treatment with such medicinal products for 
which elevated plasma concentrations are associated with serious and/or life-threatening events is 
contraindicated (applies to darunavir boosted with either ritonavir or cobicistat). These active 
substances include e.g.: 
alfuzosin 
- 
amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine, quinidine, ranolazine 
- 
astemizole, terfenadine 
- 
colchicine when used in patients with renal and/or hepatic impairment (see section 4.5) 
- 
ergot derivatives (e.g. dihydroergotamine, ergometrine, ergotamine, methylergonovine) 
- 
elbasvir/grazoprevir 
- 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
cisapride 
dapoxetine 
domperidone 
naloxegol 
lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapine, sertindole (see section 4.5) 
triazolam, midazolam administered orally (for caution on parenterally administered midazolam, 
see section 4.5) 
sildenafil - when used for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension, avanafil 
simvastatin, lovastatin and lomitapide (see section 4.5) 
ticagrelor (see section 4.5). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Regular assessment of virological response is advised. In the setting of lack or loss of virological 
response, resistance testing should be performed. 
Darunavir 400 mg or 800 mg must always be given orally with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir as a 
pharmacokinetic enhancer and in combination with other antiretroviral medicinal products (see section 
5.2). The Summary of Product Characteristics of cobicistat or ritonavir as appropriate, must therefore 
be consulted prior to initiation of therapy with darunavir. 
Increasing the dose of ritonavir from that recommended in section 4.2 did not significantly affect 
darunavir concentrations. It is not recommended to alter the dose of cobicistat or ritonavir. 
Darunavir binds predominantly to α1-acid glycoprotein. This protein binding is concentration- 
dependent indicative for saturation of binding. Therefore, protein displacement of medicinal products 
highly bound to α1-acid glycoprotein cannot be ruled out (see section 4.5). 
ART-experienced patients – once daily dosing 
Darunavir used in combination with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir once daily in ART-experienced 
patients should not be used in patients with one or more darunavir resistance associated mutations 
(DRV-RAMs) or HIV-1 RNA ≥ 100,000 copies/ml or CD4+ cell count < 100 cells x 106/L (see 
section 4.2). Combinations with optimised background regimen (OBRs) other than ≥ 2 NRTIs have 
not been studied in this population. Limited data are available in patients with HIV-1 clades other than 
B (see section 5.1). 
Paediatric population 
Darunavir is not recommended for use in paediatric patients below 3 years of age or less than 15 kg 
body weight (see sections 4.2 and 5.3). 
Pregnancy 
Darunavir/ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential 
risk. Caution should be used in pregnant women with concomitant medications which may further 
decrease darunavir exposure (see sections 4.5 and 5.2). 
Treatment with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg once daily during the second and third trimester has 
been shown to result in low darunavir exposure, with a reduction of around 90% in Cmin levels (see 
section 5.2). Cobicistat levels decrease and may not provide sufficient boosting. The substantial 
reduction in darunavir exposure may result in virological failure and an increased risk of mother to 
child transmission of HIV infection. Therefore, therapy with Darunavir/cobicistat should not be 
initiated during pregnancy, and women who become pregnant during therapy with 
Darunavir/cobicistat should be switched to an alternative regimen (see sections 4.2 and 4.6). Darunavir 
given with low dose ritonavir may be considered as an alternative. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly 
As limited information is available on the use of darunavir in patients aged 65 and over, caution 
should be exercised in the administration of darunavir in elderly patients, reflecting the greater 
frequency of decreased hepatic function and of concomitant disease or other therapy (see sections 4.2 
and 5.2). 
Severe skin reactions 
During the darunavir/ritonavir clinical development program (N=3,063), severe skin reactions, which 
may be accompanied with fever and/or elevations of transaminases, have been reported in 0.4% of 
patients. DRESS (Drug Rash with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms) and Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome has been rarely (< 0.1%) reported, and during post-marketing experience toxic epidermal 
necrolysis and acute generalised exanthematous pustulosis have been reported. Darunavir should be 
discontinued immediately if signs or symptoms of severe skin reactions develop. These can include, 
but are not limited to, severe rash or rash accompanied by fever, general malaise, fatigue, muscle or 
joint aches, blisters, oral lesions, conjunctivitis, hepatitis and/or eosinophilia. 
Rash occurred more commonly in treatment-experienced patients receiving regimens containing 
darunavir/ritonavir + raltegravir compared to patients receiving darunavir/ritonavir without raltegravir 
or raltegravir without darunavir (see section 4.8). 
Darunavir contains a sulphonamide moiety. Darunavir should be used with caution in patients with a 
known sulphonamide allergy. 
Hepatotoxicity 
Drug-induced hepatitis (e.g. acute hepatitis, cytolytic hepatitis) has been reported with darunavir. 
During the darunavir/ritonavir clinical development program (N=3,063), hepatitis was reported in 
0.5% of patients receiving combination antiretroviral therapy with darunavir/ritonavir. Patients with 
pre-existing liver dysfunction, including chronic active hepatitis B or C, have an increased risk for 
liver function abnormalities including severe and potentially fatal hepatic adverse reactions. In case of 
concomitant antiviral therapy for hepatitis B or C, please refer to the relevant product information for 
these medicinal products. 
Appropriate laboratory testing should be conducted prior to initiating therapy with darunavir used in 
combination with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir and patients should be monitored during treatment. 
Increased AST/ALT monitoring should be considered in patients with underlying chronic hepatitis, 
cirrhosis, or in patients who have pre-treatment elevations of transaminases, especially during the first 
several months of darunavir used in combination with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir treatment. 
If there is evidence of new or worsening liver dysfunction (including clinically significant elevation of 
liver enzymes and/or symptoms such as fatigue, anorexia, nausea, jaundice, dark urine, liver 
tenderness, hepatomegaly) in patients using darunavir used in combination with cobicistat or low dose 
ritonavir, interruption or discontinuation of treatment should be considered promptly. 
Patients with coexisting conditions 
Hepatic impairment 
The safety and efficacy of darunavir have not been established in patients with severe underlying liver 
disorders and darunavir is therefore contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment. Due to 
an increase in the unbound darunavir plasma concentrations, darunavir should be used with caution in 
patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (see sections 4.2, 4.3 and 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No special precautions or dose adjustments for darunavir/ritonavir are required in patients with renal 
impairment. As darunavir and ritonavir are highly bound to plasma proteins, it is unlikely that they 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
will be significantly removed by haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis. Therefore, no special 
precautions or dose adjustments are required in these patients (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). Cobicistat has 
not been studied in patients receiving dialysis, therefore, no recommendation can be made for the use 
of darunavir/cobicistat in these patients (see section 4.2). 
Cobicistat decreases the estimated creatinine clearance due to inhibition of tubular secretion of 
creatinine. This should be taken into consideration if darunavir with cobicistat is administered to 
patients in whom the estimated creatinine clearance is used to adjust doses of co-administered 
medicinal products (see section 4.2 and cobicistat SmPC). 
There are currently inadequate data to determine whether co-administration of tenofovir disoproxil and 
cobicistat is associated with a greater risk of renal adverse reactions compared with regimens that 
include tenofovir disoproxil without cobicistat. 
Haemophiliac patients 
There have been reports of increased bleeding, including spontaneous skin haematomas and 
haemarthrosis in patients with haemophilia type A and B treated with PIs. In some patients additional 
factor VIII was given. In more than half of the reported cases, treatment with PIs was continued or 
reintroduced if treatment had been discontinued. A causal relationship has been suggested, although 
the mechanism of action has not been elucidated. Haemophiliac patients should, therefore, be made 
aware of the possibility of increased bleeding. 
Weight and metabolic parameters 
An increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose may occur during antiretroviral 
therapy. Such changes may in part be linked to disease control and life style. For lipids, there is in 
some cases evidence for a treatment effect, while for weight gain there is no strong evidence relating 
this to any particular treatment. For monitoring of blood lipids and glucose reference is made to 
established HIV treatment guidelines. Lipid disorders should be managed as clinically appropriate. 
Osteonecrosis 
Although the aetiology is considered to be multifactorial (including corticosteroid use, alcohol 
consumption, severe immunosuppression, higher body mass index), cases of osteonecrosis have been 
reported particularly in patients with advanced HIV disease and/or long-term exposure to combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART). Patients should be advised to seek medical advice if they experience 
joint aches and pain, joint stiffness or difficulty in movement. 
Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome 
In HIV infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
pathogens may arise and cause serious clinical conditions, or aggravation of symptoms. Typically, 
such reactions have been observed within the first weeks or months of initiation of CART. Relevant 
examples are cytomegalovirus retinitis, generalised and/or focal mycobacterial infections and 
pneumonia caused by Pneumocystis jirovecii (formerly known as Pneumocystis carinii). Any 
inflammatory symptoms should be evaluated and treatment instituted when necessary. In addition, 
reactivation of herpes simplex and herpes zoster has been observed in clinical studies with darunavir 
co-administered with low dose ritonavir. 
Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have also been reported to 
occur in the setting of immune reactivation; however, the reported time to onset is more variable and 
these events can occur many months after initiation of treatment (see section 4.8). 
Interactions with medicinal products 
Several of the interaction studies have been performed with darunavir at lower than recommended 
doses. The effects on co-administered medicinal products may thus be underestimated and clinical 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
monitoring of safety may be indicated. For full information on interactions with other medicinal 
products see section 4.5. 
Pharmacokinetic enhancer and concomitant medications 
Darunavir has different interaction profiles depending on whether the compound is boosted with 
ritonavir or cobicistat: 
- 
Darunavir boosted with cobicistat is more sensitive for CYP3A induction: concomitant use of 
darunavir/cobicistat and strong CYP3A inducers is therefore contraindicated (see section 4.3), 
and concomitant use with weak to moderate CYP3A inducers is not recommended (see section 
4.5). Concomitant use of darunavir/ritonavir and darunavir/cobicistat with lopinavir/ritonavir, 
rifampicin and herbal products containing St John's wort, Hypericum perforatum, is 
contraindicated (see section 4.5). 
Unlike ritonavir, cobicistat does not have inducing effects on enzymes or transport proteins (see 
section 4.5). If switching the pharmacoenhancer from ritonavir to cobicistat, caution is required 
during the first two weeks of treatment with darunavir/cobicistat, particularly if doses of any 
concomitantly administered medicinal products have been titrated or adjusted during use of 
ritonavir as a pharmacoenhancer. A dose reduction of the co-administered drug may be needed 
in these cases. 
- 
Efavirenz in combination with boosted darunavir may result in sub-optimal darunavir Cmin. If efavirenz 
is to be used in combination with darunavir, the darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily regimen 
should be used. See the Summary of Product Characteristics for Darunavir Mylan 75 mg, 150 mg, 300 
mg and 600 mg tablets (see section 4.5). 
Life-threatening and fatal drug interactions have been reported in patients treated with colchicine and 
strong inhibitors of CYP3A and P-glycoprotein (P-gp; see sections 4.3 and 4.5). 
Darunavir Mylan contains sodium 
Darunavir Mylan 400 mg and 800 mg film-coated tablets contain less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) 
per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
The interaction profile of darunavir may differ depending on whether ritonavir or cobicistat is used as 
pharmacoenhancer. The recommendations given for concomitant use of darunavir and other medicinal 
products may therefore differ depending on whether darunavir is boosted with ritonavir or cobicistat 
(see sections 4.3 and 4.4), and caution is also required during the first time of treatment if switching 
the pharmacoenhancer from ritonavir to cobicistat (see section 4.4). 
Medicinal products that affect darunavir exposure (ritonavir as pharmacoenhancer) 
Darunavir and ritonavir are metabolised by CYP3A. Medicinal products that induce CYP3A activity 
would be expected to increase the clearance of darunavir and ritonavir, resulting in lowered plasma 
concentrations of these compounds and consequently that of darunavir, leading to loss of therapeutic 
effect and possible development of resistance (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). CYP3A inducers that are 
contraindicated include rifampicin, St John's wort and lopinavir. 
Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir with other medicinal products that inhibit CYP3A may 
decrease the clearance of darunavir and ritonavir, which may result in increased plasma concentrations 
of darunavir and ritonavir. Co-administration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors is not recommended and 
caution is warranted, these interactions are described in the interaction table below (e.g. indinavir, 
azole antifungals like clotrimazole). 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products that affect darunavir exposure (cobicistat as pharmacoenhancer) 
Darunavir and cobicistat are metabolised by CYP3A, and co-administration with CYP3A inducers 
may therefore result in subtherapeutic plasma exposure to darunavir. Darunavir boosted with cobicistat 
is more sensitive to CYP3A induction than ritonavir-boosted darunavir: co-administration of 
darunavir/cobicistat with medicinal products that are strong inducers of CYP3A (e.g. St John's wort, 
rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, and phenytoin) is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Co-administration of darunavir/cobicistat with weak to moderate CYP3A inducers (e.g. efavirenz, 
etravirine, nevirapine, fluticasone, and bosentan) is not recommended (see interaction table below). 
For co-administration with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors, the same recommendations apply independent 
of whether darunavir is boosted with ritonavir or with cobicistat (see section above). 
Medicinal products that may be affected by darunavir boosted with ritonavir 
Darunavir and ritonavir are inhibitors of CYP3A, CYP2D6 and P-gp. Co-administration of 
darunavir/ritonavir with medicinal products primarily metabolised by CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 or 
transported by P-gp may result in increased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which 
could increase or prolong their therapeutic effect and adverse reactions. 
Darunavir co-administered with low dose ritonavir must not be combined with medicinal products that 
are highly dependent on CYP3A for clearance and for which increased systemic exposure is associated 
with serious and/or life-threatening events (narrow therapeutic index) (see section 4.3). 
Co-administration of boosted darunavir with drugs that have active metabolite(s) formed by CYP3A 
may result in reduced plasma concentrations of these active metabolite(s), potentially leading to loss of 
their therapeutic effect (see the Interaction table below). 
The overall pharmacokinetic enhancement effect by ritonavir was an approximate 14-fold increase in 
the systemic exposure of darunavir when a single dose of 600 mg darunavir was given orally in 
combination with ritonavir at 100 mg twice daily. Therefore, darunavir must only be used in 
combination with a pharmacokinetic enhancer (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
A clinical study utilising a cocktail of medicinal products that are metabolised by cytochromes 
CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 demonstrated an increase in CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 activity and 
inhibition of CYP2D6 activity in the presence of darunavir/ritonavir, which may be attributed to the 
presence of low dose ritonavir. Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir with medicinal products 
which are primarily metabolised by CYP2D6 (such as flecainide, propafenone, metoprolol) may result 
in increased plasma concentrations of these medicinal products, which could increase or prolong their 
therapeutic effect and adverse reactions. Co-administration of darunavir and ritonavir with medicinal 
products primarily metabolised by CYP2C9 (such as warfarin) and CYP2C19 (such as methadone) 
may result in decreased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which could decrease or 
shorten their therapeutic effect. 
Although the effect on CYP2C8 has only been studied in vitro, co-administration of darunavir and 
ritonavir and medicinal products primarily metabolised by CYP2C8 (such as paclitaxel, rosiglitazone, 
repaglinide) may result in decreased systemic exposure to such medicinal products, which could 
decrease or shorten their therapeutic effect. 
Ritonavir inhibits the transporters P-glycoprotein, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3, and co-administration 
with substrates of these transporters can result in increased plasma concentrations of these compounds 
(e.g. dabigatran etexilate, digoxin, statins and bosentan; see the Interaction table below). 
Medicinal products that may be affected by darunavir boosted with cobicistat 
The recommendations for darunavir boosted with ritonavir are similar to the recommendation for 
darunavir boosted with cobicistat with regard to substrates of CYP3A4, CYP2D6, P-glycoprotein, 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 (see contraindications and recommendations presented in the section 
above). Cobicistat 150 mg given with darunavir 800 mg once daily enhances darunavir 
pharmacokinetic parameters in a comparable way to ritonavir (see section 5.2). 
Unlike ritonavir, cobicistat does not induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19 or 
UGT1A1. For further information on cobicistat, consult the cobicistat Summary of Product 
Characteristics. 
Interaction table 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
Several of the interaction studies (indicated by # in the table below) have been performed at lower than 
recommended doses of darunavir or with a different dosing regimen (see section 4.2 Posology). The 
effects on co-administered medicinal products may thus be underestimated and clinical monitoring of 
safety may be indicated. 
The interaction profile of darunavir depends on whether ritonavir or cobicistat is used as 
pharmacokinetic enhancer. Darunavir may therefore have different recommendations for concomitant 
medications depending on whether the compound is boosted with ritonavir or cobicistat. No 
interaction studies presented in the table have been performed with darunavir boosted with cobicistat. 
The same recommendations apply, unless specifically indicated. For further information on cobicistat, 
consult the cobicistat Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Interactions between darunavir/ritonavir and antiretroviral and non-antiretroviral medicinal products 
are listed in the table below. The direction of the arrow for each pharmacokinetic parameter is based 
on the 90% confidence interval of the geometric mean ratio being within (↔), below (↓) or above (↑) 
the 80-125% range (not determined as “ND”). 
In the table below the specific pharmacokinetic enhancer is specified when recommendations differ. 
When the recommendation is the same for darunavir when co-administered with a low dose ritonavir 
or cobicistat, the term “boosted darunavir” is used. 
The below list of examples of drug -drug interactions is not comprehensive and therefore the label of 
each drug that is co-administered with darunavir should be consulted for information related to the 
route of metabolism, interaction pathways, potential risks, and specific actions to be taken with regards 
to co-administration. 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Recommendations concerning co- 
Medicinal products by 
administration 
therapeutic areas 
HIV ANTIRETROVIRALS 
Integrase strand transfer inhibitors 
Dolutegravir 
Interaction 
Geometric mean change (%) 
Boosted darunavir and dolutegravir 
can be used without dose adjustment. 
Raltegravir 
At present the effect of raltegravir on 
darunavir plasma concentrations does 
not appear to be clinically relevant.  
Boosted darunavir and raltegravir can 
be used without dose adjustments. 
dolutegravir AUC ↓ 22% 
dolutegravir C24h ↓38%  
dolutegravir Cmax ↓ 11%  
darunavir ↔* 
* Using cross-study comparisons to 
historical pharmacokinetic data 
Some clinical studies suggest 
raltegravir may cause a modest 
decrease in darunavir plasma 
concentrations. 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interaction 
Geometric mean change (%) 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Recommendations concerning co- 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
administration 
Nucleo(s/t)ide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) 
didanosine AUC ↓ 9%  
Didanosine 
didanosine Cmin ND  
400 mg once daily 
didanosine Cmax ↓ 16%  
darunavir AUC ↔  
darunavir Cmin ↔  
darunavir Cmax ↔ 
Boosted darunavir and didanosine 
can be used without dose 
adjustments. 
Didanosine is to be administered on 
an empty stomach, thus it should be 
administered 1 hour before or 2 hours 
after boosted darunavir given with 
food. 
Monitoring of renal function may be 
indicated when boosted darunavir is 
given in combination with tenofovir 
disoproxil, particularly in patients 
with underlying systemic or renal 
disease, or in patients taking 
nephrotoxic agents. 
Darunavir co-administered with 
cobicistat lowers the creatinine 
clearance. Refer to section 4.4 if 
creatinine clearance is used for dose 
adjustment of tenofovir disoproxil. 
The recommended dose of 
emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide 
is 200/10 mg once daily when used 
with boosted darunavir. 
Boosted darunavir can be used with 
these NRTIs without dose 
adjustment. 
Darunavir co-administered with 
cobicistat lowers the creatinine 
clearance. Refer to section 4.4 if 
creatinine clearance is used for dose 
adjustment of emtricitabine or 
lamivudine. 
Tenofovir disoproxil 245 mg 
once daily‡ 
tenofovir AUC ↑ 22%  
tenofovir Cmin ↑ 37%  
tenofovir Cmax ↑ 24%  
#darunavir AUC ↑ 21%  
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 24%  
#darunavir Cmax ↑ 16% 
(↑ tenofovir from effect on MDR-1 
transport in the renal tubules) 
Emtricitabine/tenofovir 
alafenamide 
Tenofovir alafenamide ↔  
Tenofovir ↑ 
Abacavir  
Emtricitabine 
Lamivudine  
Stavudine  
Zidovudine 
Not studied. Based on the different 
elimination pathways of the other 
NRTIs zidovudine, emtricitabine, 
stavudine, lamivudine, that are 
primarily renally excreted, and 
abacavir for which metabolism is 
not mediated by CYP450, no 
interactions are expected for these 
medicinal compounds and boosted 
darunavir. 
51 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Recommendations concerning co- 
Interaction 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
administration 
Geometric mean change (%) 
Non-nucleo(s/t)ide reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) 
Efavirenz 
600 mg once daily 
efavirenz AUC ↑ 21%  
efavirenz Cmin ↑ 17%  
efavirenz Cmax ↑ 15%  
#darunavir AUC ↓ 13%  
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 31%  
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 15% 
(↑ efavirenz from CYP3A 
inhibition) 
(↓ darunavir from CYP3A 
induction) 
Clinical monitoring for central 
nervous system toxicity associated 
with increased exposure to efavirenz 
may be indicated when darunavir co- 
administered with low dose ritonavir 
is given in combination with 
efavirenz. 
Efavirenz in combination with 
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once 
daily may result in sub-optimal 
darunavir Cmin. If efavirenz is to be 
used in combination with 
darunavir/ritonavir, the 
darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice 
daily regimen should be used (see 
section 4.4). 
Co-administration with darunavir co- 
administered with cobicistat is not 
recommended (see section 4.4). 
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and etravirine 200 mg 
twice daily can be used without dose 
adjustments. 
Co-administration with darunavir co-
administered with cobicistat is not 
recommended (see section 4.4). 
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and nevirapine can be 
used without dose adjustments. 
Co-administration with darunavir co-
administered with cobicistat is not 
recommended (see section 4.4). 
Boosted darunavir and rilpivirine can 
be used without dose adjustments. 
Etravirine 
100 mg twice daily 
Nevirapine 
200 mg twice daily 
Rilpivirine 
150 mg once daily 
etravirine AUC ↓ 37% 
etravirine Cmin ↓ 49% 
etravirine Cmax ↓ 32%  
darunavir AUC ↑ 15%  
darunavir Cmin ↔  
darunavir Cmax ↔ 
nevirapine AUC ↑ 27%  
nevirapine Cmin ↑ 47%  
nevirapine Cmax ↑ 18%  
#darunavir: concentrations were 
consistent with historical data  
(↑ nevirapine from CYP3A 
inhibition) 
rilpivirine AUC ↑ 130%  
rilpivirine Cmin ↑ 178%  
rilpivirine Cmax ↑ 79%  
darunavir AUC ↔  
darunavir Cmin ↓ 11%  
darunavir Cmax ↔ 
52 
 
 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Recommendations concerning co- 
Interaction 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
administration 
Geometric mean change (%) 
HIV Protease inhibitors (PIs) - without additional co-administration of low dose ritonavir† 
Atazanavir 
300 mg once daily 
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir and atazanavir can be 
used without dose adjustments. 
atazanavir AUC ↔  
atazanavir Cmin ↑ 52%  
atazanavir Cmax ↓ 11%  
#darunavir AUC ↔  
#darunavir Cmin ↔  
#darunavir Cmax ↔ 
Darunavir co-administered with 
cobicistat should not be used in 
combination with another 
antiretroviral agent that requires 
pharmacoenhancement by means of 
co- administration with an inhibitor 
of CYP3A4 (see section 4.5). 
When used in combination with 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir, dose adjustment of 
indinavir from 800 mg twice daily to 
600 mg twice daily may be warranted 
in case of intolerance. 
Darunavir co-administered with 
cobicistat should not be used in 
combination with another 
antiretroviral agent that requires 
pharmacoenhancement by means of 
co- administration with an inhibitor 
of CYP3A4 (see section 4.5). 
It is not recommended to combine 
darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir with saquinavir. 
Darunavir co-administered with 
cobicistat should not be used in 
combination with another 
antiretroviral agent that requires 
pharmacoenhancement by means of 
co- administration with an inhibitor 
of CYP3A4 (see section 4.5). 
Indinavir 
800 mg twice daily 
Saquinavir 
1,000 mg twice daily 
Atazanavir: comparison of 
atazanavir/ritonavir 300/100 mg 
once daily vs. atazanavir 300 mg 
once daily in combination with 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg 
twice daily. 
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg 
twice daily vs. darunavir/ritonavir 
400/100 mg twice daily in 
combination with atazanavir 300 
mg once daily. 
indinavir AUC ↑ 23%  
indinavir Cmin ↑ 125%  
indinavir Cmax ↔  
#darunavir AUC ↑ 24%  
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 44%  
#darunavir Cmax ↑ 11% 
Indinavir: comparison of 
indinavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg 
twice daily vs. 
indinavir/darunavir/ritonavir 
800/400/100 mg twice daily. 
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg 
twice daily vs. darunavir/ritonavir 
400/100 mg in combination with 
indinavir 800 mg twice daily. 
#darunavir AUC ↓ 26%  
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 42%  
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 17%  
saquinavir AUC ↓ 6% 
saquinavir Cmin ↓ 18% 
saquinavir Cmax ↓ 6% 
Saquinavir: comparison of 
saquinavir/ritonavir 1,000/100 mg 
twice daily vs. 
saquinavir/darunavir/ritonavir 
1,000/400/100 mg twice daily 
Darunavir: comparison of 
darunavir/ritonavir 400/100 mg 
twice daily vs. darunavir/ritonavir 
400/100 mg in combination with 
saquinavir 1,000 mg twice daily. 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Recommendations concerning co- 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
administration 
HIV Protease inhibitors (PIs) - with co-administration of low dose ritonavir† 
Lopinavir/ritonavir 400/100 
mg twice daily 
Interaction 
Geometric mean change (%) 
Due to a decrease in the exposure 
(AUC) of darunavir by 40%, 
appropriate doses of the combination 
have not been established. Hence, 
concomitant use of boosted darunavir 
and the combination product 
lopinavir/ritonavir is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3). 
lopinavir AUC ↑ 9%  
lopinavir Cmin ↑ 23%  
lopinavir Cmax ↓ 2%  
darunavir AUC ↓ 38%‡  
darunavir Cmin ↓ 51%‡  
darunavir Cmax ↓ 21%‡  
lopinavir AUC ↔  
lopinavir Cmin ↑ 13%  
lopinavir Cmax ↑ 11%  
darunavir AUC ↓ 41%  
darunavir Cmin ↓ 55%  
darunavir Cmax ↓ 21% 
‡ based upon non dose normalised 
values 
Lopinavir/ritonavir 
533/133.3 mg twice daily 
CCR5 ANTAGONIST 
Maraviroc 
150 mg twice daily 
maraviroc AUC ↑ 305%  
maraviroc Cmin ND  
maraviroc Cmax ↑ 129% 
darunavir, ritonavir concentrations 
were consistent with historical data 
The maraviroc dose should be 150 
mg twice daily when co-administered 
with boosted darunavir. 
α1-ADRENORECEPTOR ANTAGONIST 
Alfuzosin 
Based on theoretical considerations 
darunavir is expected to increase 
alfuzosin plasma concentrations. 
(CYP3A inhibition) 
Co-administration of boosted 
darunavir and alfuzosin is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
ANAESTHETIC 
Alfentanil 
Not studied. The metabolism of 
alfentanil is mediated via CYP3A, 
and may as such be inhibited by 
boosted darunavir. 
The concomitant use with boosted 
darunavir may require to lower the 
dose of alfentanil and requires 
monitoring for risks of prolonged or 
delayed respiratory depression. 
ANTIANGINA/ANTIARRHYTHMIC 
Disopyramide  
Flecainide  
Lidocaine (systemic)  
Mexiletine  
Propafenone 
Not studied. Boosted darunavir is 
expected to increase these 
antiarrhythmic plasma 
concentrations. 
(CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 
inhibition) 
Amiodarone Bepridil 
Dronedarone Ivabradine 
Quinidine Ranolazine 
Digoxin 
0.4 mg single dose 
digoxin AUC ↑ 61%  
digoxin Cmin ND  
digoxin Cmax ↑ 29% 
(↑ digoxin from probable inhibition 
of P-gp) 
54 
Caution is warranted and ther apeutic 
concentration monitoring, if 
available, is recommended for these 
antiarrhythmics when co-
administered with boosted darunavir. 
Co-administration of boosted 
darunavir and amiodarone, bepridil, 
dronedarone, ivabradine, quinidine, 
or ranolazine is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3). 
Given that digoxin has a narrow 
therapeutic index, it is recommended 
that the lowest possible dose of 
digoxin should initially be prescribed 
in case digoxin is given to patients on 
boosted darunavir therapy. The 
digoxin dose should be carefully 
titrated to obtain the desired clinical 
effect while assessing the overall 
clinical state of the subject. 
 
 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Recommendations concerning co- 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
administration 
ANTIBIOTIC 
Clarithromycin  
500 mg twice daily 
Interaction 
Geometric mean change (%) 
Caution should be exercised when 
clarithromycin is combined with 
boosted darunavir. 
clarithromycin AUC ↑ 57%  
clarithromycin Cmin ↑ 174%  
clarithromycin Cmax ↑ 26%  
#darunavir AUC ↓ 13%  
#darunavir Cmin ↑ 1%  
#darunavir Cmax ↓ 17% 
14-OH-clarithromycin 
concentrations were not detectable 
when combined with 
darunavir/ritonavir. 
(↑ clarithromycin from CYP3A 
inhibition and possible P-gp 
inhibition) 
ANTICOAGULANT/PLATELET AGGREGATION INHIBITOR 
Apixaban  
Rivaroxaban 
Not studied. Co-administration of 
boosted daruanvir with these 
anticoagulants may increase 
concentrations of the anticoagulant. 
(CYP3A and/or P-gp inhibition) 
Dabigatran  etexilate 
Edoxaban 
dabigatran etexilate (150 mg): 
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg 
single dose: 
dabigatran AUC ↑ 72% 
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 64% 
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg 
once daily: 
dabigatran AUC ↑ 18% 
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 22% 
darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg 
single dose: 
dabigatran AUC ↑ 164% 
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 164% 
darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg 
once daily: 
dabigatran AUC ↑ 88% 
dabigatran Cmax ↑ 99% 
For patients with renal impairment 
the Summary of Product 
Characteristics for clarithromycin 
should be consulted for the 
recommended dose. 
The use of boosted darunavir with a 
direct oral anticoagulant (DOAC) 
that is metabolised by CYP3A4 and 
transported by P-gp is not 
recommended as this may lead to an 
increased bleeding risk. 
Darunavir/ritonavir: 
Clinical monitoring and/or dose 
reduction of the DOAC should be 
considered when a DOAC 
transported by P-gp but not 
metabolised by CYP3A4, including 
dabigatran etexilate and edoxaban, is 
co-administered with darunavir/rtv. 
Darunavir/cobicistat: 
Clinical monitoring and dose 
reduction is required when a DOAC 
transported by P-gp but not 
metabolised by CYP3A4, including 
dabigatran etexilate and edoxaban, is 
co-administered with darunavir/cobi. 
Ticagrelor 
Clopidogrel 
Based on theoretical considerations, 
co-administration of boosted 
darunavir with ticagrelor may 
increase concentrations of ticagrelor 
(CYP3A and/or P-glycoprotein 
inhibition). 
Not studied. Co-administration of 
clopidogrel with boosted darunavir 
is expected to decrease clopidogrel 
active metabolite plasma 
concentration, which may reduce 
the antiplatelet activity of 
clopidogrel. 
55 
Concomitant administration of 
boosted darunavir with ticagrelor is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Co-administration of clopidogrel 
with boosted darunavir is not 
recommended. 
Use of other antiplatelets not affected 
by CYP inhibition or induction (e.g. 
prasugrel) is recommended. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Recommendations concerning co- 
Medicinal products by 
administration 
therapeutic areas 
It is recommended that the 
Warfarin 
international normalised ratio (INR) 
be monitored when warfarin is 
combined with boosted darunavir. 
Interaction 
Geometric mean change (%) 
Not studied. Warfarin 
concentrations may be affected 
when co- administered with boosted 
darunavir. 
ANTICONVULSANTS 
Phenobarbital  
Phenytoin 
Carbamazepine 200 mg 
twice daily 
Not studied. Phenobarbital and 
phenytoin are expected to decrease 
plasma concentrations of darunavir 
and its pharmacoenhancer. 
(induction of CYP450 enzymes) 
carbamazepine AUC ↑ 45%  
carbamazepine Cmin ↑ 54%  
carbamazepine Cmax ↑ 43%  
darunavir AUC ↔  
darunavir Cmin ↓ 15%  
darunavir Cmax ↔ 
Clonazepam 
Not studied. Co-administration of 
boosted darunavir with clonazepam 
may increase concentrations of 
clonazepam. (CYP3A inhibition) 
Darunavir co-administered with low 
dose ritonavir should not be used in 
combination with these medicines.  
The use of these medicines with 
darunavir/cobicistat is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
No dose adjustment for 
darunavir/ritonavir is recommended. 
If there is a need to combine 
darunavir/ritonavir and 
carbamazepine, patients should be 
monitored for potential 
carbamazepine-related adverse 
events. Carbamazepine 
concentrations should be monitored 
and its dose should be titrated for 
adequate response. Based upon the 
findings, the carbamazepine dose 
may need to be reduced by 25% to 
50% in the presence of 
darunavir/ritonavir. 
The use of carbamazepine with 
darunavir co-administered with 
cobicistat is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3). 
Clinical monitoring is recommended 
when co-administering boosted 
darunavir with clonazepam. 
56 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Recommendations concerning co- 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
administration 
ANTIDEPRESSANTS 
Paroxetine 
20 mg once daily 
Interaction 
Geometric mean change (%) 
paroxetine AUC ↓ 39%  
paroxetine Cmin ↓ 37%  
paroxetine Cmax ↓ 36%  
#darunavir AUC ↔  
#darunavir Cmin ↔  
#darunavir Cmax ↔  
If antidepressants are co-
administered with boosted darunavir, 
the recommended approach is a dose 
titration of the antidepressant based 
on a clinical assessment of 
antidepressant response. In addition, 
patients on a stable dose of these 
antidepressants who start treatment 
with boosted darunavir should be 
monitored for antidepressant 
response. 
Sertraline 
50 mg once daily 
Amitriptyline  
Desipramine  
Imipramine  
Nortriptyline  
Trazodone 
ANTI-DIABETICS 
Metformin 
sertraline AUC ↓ 49%  
sertraline Cmin ↓ 49%  
sertraline Cmax ↓ 44%  
#darunavir AUC ↔  
#darunavir Cmin ↓ 6%  
#darunavir Cmax ↔ 
In contrast to these data with 
darunavir/ritonavir, 
darunavir/cobicistat may increase 
these antidepressant plasma 
concentrations (CYP2D6 and/or 
CYP3A inhibition). 
Concomitant use of boosted 
darunavir and these antidepressants 
may increase concentrations of the 
antidepressant. 
(CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A 
inhibition) 
Clinical monitoring is recommended 
when co-administering boosted 
darunavir with these antidepressants 
and a dose adjustment of the 
antidepressant may be needed. 
Not studied. Based on theoretical 
considerations darunavir co- 
administered with cobicistat is 
expected to increase metformin 
plasma concentrations. 
(MATE1 inhibition) 
ANTIEMETICS 
Domperidone 
Not studied. 
ANTIFUNGALS 
Voriconazole 
Not studied. Ritonavir may 
decrease plasma concentrations of 
voriconazole. 
(induction of CYP450 enzymes) 
Concentrations of voriconazole may 
increase or decrease when co-
administered with darunavir co- 
administered with cobicistat. 
(inhibition of CYP450 enzymes) 
57 
Careful patient monitoring and dose 
adjustment of metformin is 
recommended in patients who are 
taking darunavir co-administered 
with cobicistat. 
(not applicable for darunavir co- 
administered with ritonavir) 
Co-administration of domperidone 
with boosted darunavir is 
contraindicated. 
Voriconazole should not be 
combined with boosted darunavir 
unless an assessment of the 
benefit/risk ratio justifies the use of 
voriconazole. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Recommendations concerning co- 
Medicinal products by 
administration 
therapeutic areas 
Caution is warranted and clinical 
Fluconazole  
monitoring is recommended. 
Isavuconazole  
When co-administration is required 
Itraconazole  
the daily dose of itraconazole should 
Posaconazole 
not exceed 200 mg. 
Interaction 
Geometric mean change (%) 
Not studied. Boosted darunavir may 
increase antifungal plasma 
concentrations and posaconazole, 
isavuconazole, itraconazole or 
fluconazole may increase darunavir 
concentrations. 
(CYP3A and/or P-gp inhibition) 
Clotrimazole 
ANTIGOUT MEDICINES 
Colchicine 
Not studied. Concomitant systemic 
use of clotrimazole and boosted 
darunavir may increase plasma 
concentrations of darunavir and/or 
clotrimazole. 
Darunavir AUC24h ↑ 33% (based on 
population pharmacokinetic model) 
Not studied. Concomitant use of 
colchicine and boosted darunavir 
may increase the exposure to 
colchicine. 
(CYP3A and/ or P-gp inhibition) 
ANTIMALARIALS 
Artemether/Lumefantrine 
80/480 mg, 6 doses at 0, 8, 
24, 36, 48, and 60 hours 
ANTIMYCOBACTERIALS 
Rifampicin  
Rifapentine 
artemether AUC ↓ 16%  
artemether Cmin ↔  
artemether Cmax ↓ 18% 
dihydroartemisinin AUC ↓ 18%  
dihydroartemisinin Cmin ↔  
dihydroartemisinin Cmax ↓ 18%  
lumefantrine AUC ↑ 175%  
lumefantrine Cmin ↑ 126%  
lumefantrine Cmax ↑ 65%  
darunavir AUC ↔ 
darunavir Cmin ↓ 13% 
darunavir Cmax ↔ 
Not studied. Rifapentine and 
rifampicin are strong CYP3A 
inducers and have been shown to 
cause profound decreases in 
concentrations of other protease 
inhibitors, which can result in 
virological failure and resistance 
development (CYP450 enzyme 
induction). During attempts to 
overcome the decreased exposure 
by increasing the dose of other 
protease inhibitors with low dose 
ritonavir, a high frequency of liver 
reactions was seen with rifampicin. 
58 
A reduction in colchicine dosage or 
an interruption of colchicine 
treatment is recommended in patients 
with normal renal or hepatic function 
if treatment with boosted darunavir is 
required. For patients with renal or 
hepatic impairment colchicine with 
boosted darunavir is contraindicated 
(see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
The combination of boosted 
darunavir and 
artemether/lumefantrine can be used 
without dose adjustments; however, 
due to the increase in lumefantrine 
exposure, the combination should be 
used with caution. 
The combination of rifapentine and 
boosted darunavir is not 
recommended. 
The combination of rifampicin and 
boosted darunavir is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3). 
 
 
 
 
** ↑ ND 
** ↔ 
Interaction 
Geometric mean change (%) 
rifabutin AUC** ↑ 55% 
rifabutin Cmin
rifabutin Cmax
darunavir AUC ↑ 53%  
darunavir Cmin ↑ 68%  
darunavir Cmax ↑ 39% 
** sum of active moieties of 
rifabutin (parent drug + 
25-O-desacetyl metabolite) 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Recommendations concerning co- 
Medicinal products by 
administration 
therapeutic areas 
A dosage reduction of rifabutin by 
Rifabutin 
75% of the usual dose of 300 mg/day 
150 mg once every other day 
(i.e. rifabutin 150 mg once every 
other day) and increased monitoring 
for rifabutin related adverse events is 
warranted in patients receiving the 
combination with darunavir co-
administered with ritonavir. In case 
of safety issues, a further increase of 
the dosing interval for rifabutin 
and/or monitoring of rifabutin levels 
should be considered. Consideration 
should be given to official guidance 
on the appropriate treatment of 
tuberculosis in HIV infected patients. 
Based upon the safety profile of 
darunavir/ritonavir, the increase in 
darunavir exposure in the presence of 
rifabutin does not warrant a dose 
adjustment for darunavir/ritonavir. 
Based on pharmacokinetic modeling, 
this dosage reduction of 75% is also 
applicable if patients receive rifabutin 
at doses other than 300 mg/day. 
The interaction trial showed a 
comparable daily systemic exposure 
for rifabutin between treatment at 
300 mg once daily alone and 
150 mg once every other day in 
combination with 
darunavir/ritonavir 
(600/100 mg twice daily) with an 
about 10-fold increase in the daily 
exposure to the active metabolite 
25- O-desacetylrifabutin. 
Furthermore, AUC of the sum of 
active moieties of rifabutin (parent 
drug + 25-O- desacetyl metabolite) 
was increased 1.6-fold, while Cmax 
remained comparable. 
Data on comparison with a 150 mg 
once daily reference dose is lacking. 
(Rifabutin is an inducer and 
substrate of CYP3A.) An increase 
of systemic exposure to darunavir 
was observed when darunavir co- 
administered with 100 mg ritonavir 
was co-administered with rifabutin 
(150 mg once every other day). 
Not studied. Boosted darunavir is 
expected to increase these 
antineoplastic plasma 
concentrations. 
(CYP3A inhibition) 
ANTINEOPLASTICS 
Dasatinib  
Nilotinib  
Vinblastine  
Vincristine 
Everolimus  
Irinotecan 
ANTIPSYCHOTICS/NEUROLEPTICS 
Quetiapine 
Not studied. Boosted darunavir is 
expected to increase these 
antipsychotic plasma 
concentrations. (CYP3A inhibition) 
59 
Co-administration of darunavir co-
administered with cobicistat and 
rifabutin is not recommended. 
Concentrations of these medicinal 
products may be increased when co- 
administered with boosted darunavir 
resulting in the potential for 
increased adverse events usually 
associated with these agents. 
Caution should be exercised when 
combining one of these antineoplastic 
agents with boosted darunavir. 
Concomitant use of everolimus or 
Irinotecan and boosted darunavir is 
not recommended. 
Concomitant administration of 
boosted darunavir and quetiapine is 
contraindicated as it may increase 
quetiapine-related toxicity. Increased 
concentrations of quetiapine may 
lead to coma (see section 4.3). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Recommendations concerning co- 
Medicinal products by 
administration 
therapeutic areas 
A dose decrease may be needed for 
Perphenazine  
these drugs when co-administered 
Risperidone  
with boosted darunavir. 
Thioridazine 
Interaction 
Geometric mean change (%) 
Not studied. Boosted darunavir is 
expected to increase these 
antipsychotic plasma 
concentrations. (CYP3A, CYP2D6 
and/or P-gp inhibition) 
Lurasidone  
Pimozide  
Sertindole 
β-BLOCKERS 
Carvedilol  
Metoprolol  
Timolol 
Concomitant administration of 
boosted darunavir and lurasidone, 
pimozide or sertindole is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Not studied. Boosted darunavir is 
expected to increase these β-blocker 
plasma concentrations. 
(CYP2D6 inhibition) 
Clinical monitoring is recommended 
when co-administering boosted 
darunavir with β-blockers. A lower 
dose of the β-blocker should be 
considered. 
CALCIUM CHANNEL BLOCKERS 
Amlodipine  
Diltiazem  
Felodipine  
Nicardipine  
Nifedipine  
Verapamil 
CORTICOSTEROIDS 
Corticosteroids primarily 
metabolised by CYP3A 
(including betamethasone, 
budesonide, fluticasone, 
mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone) 
Not studied. Boosted darunavir can 
be expected to increase the plasma 
concentrations of calcium channel 
blockers. 
(CYP3A and/or CYP2D6 
inhibition) 
Fluticasone: in a clinical study 
where ritonavir 100 mg capsules 
twice daily were co-administered 
with 50 μg intranasal fluticasone 
propionate (4 times daily) for 7 
days in healthy subjects, fluticasone 
propionate plasma concentrations 
increased significantly, whereas the 
intrinsic cortisol levels decreased 
by approximately 86% (90% CI 82-
89%). Greater effects may be 
expected when fluticasone is 
inhaled. Systemic corticosteroid 
effects including Cushing's 
syndrome and adrenal suppression 
have been reported in patients 
receiving ritonavir and inhaled or 
intranasally administered 
fluticasone. The effects of high 
fluticasone systemic exposure on 
ritonavir plasma levels are 
unknown. 
Dexamethasone (systemic) 
Other corticosteroids: interaction 
not studied. Plasma concentrations 
of these medicinal products may be 
increased when co-administered 
with boosted darunavir, resulting in 
reduced serum cortisol 
concentrations. 
Not studied. Dexamethasone may 
decrease plasma concentrations of 
darunavir. 
(CYP3A induction) 
60 
Clinical monitoring of therapeutic 
and adverse effects is recommended 
when these medicines are 
concomitantly administered with 
boosted darunavir. 
Concomitant use of boosted 
darunavir and corticosteroids (all 
routes of administration) that are 
metabolised by CYP3A may increase 
the risk of development of systemic 
corticosteroid effects, including 
Cushing’s syndrome and adrenal 
suppression. 
Co-administration with CYP3A- 
metabolised corticosteroids is not 
recommended unless the potential 
benefit to the patient outweighs the 
risk, in which case patients should be 
monitored for systemic corticosteroid 
effects. 
Alternative corticosteroids which are 
less dependent on CYP3A 
metabolism 
e.g. beclomethasone should be 
considered, particularly for long term 
use. 
Systemic dexamethasone should be 
used with caution when combined 
with boosted darunavir. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Recommendations concerning co- 
Medicinal products by 
therapeutic areas 
administration 
ENDOTHELIN RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS 
Bosentan 
Interaction 
Geometric mean change (%) 
When administered concomitantly 
with darunavir and low dose 
ritonavir, the patient's tolerability of 
bosentan should be monitored. 
Co-administration of darunavir co-
administered with cobicistat and 
bosentan is not recommended. 
Concomitant use of boosted 
darunavir and elbasvir/grazoprevir is 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
It is not recommended to co-
administer boosted darunavir with 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir. 
Boosted darunavir must not be used 
concomitantly with products 
containing St John's wort (Hypericum 
perforatum) (see section 4.3). If a 
patient is already taking St John's 
wort, stop St John's wort and if 
possible check viral levels. Darunavir 
exposure (and also ritonavir 
exposure) may increase on stopping 
St John's wort. The inducing effect 
may persist for at least 2 weeks after 
cessation of treatment with St John's 
wort. 
Increased plasma concentrations of 
lovastatin or simvastatin may cause 
myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis. 
Concomitant use of boosted 
darunavir with lovastatin and 
simvastatin is therefore 
contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
When administration of atorvastatin 
and boosted darunavir is desired, it is 
recommended to start with an 
atorvastatin dose of 10 mg once 
daily. A gradual dose increase of 
atorvastatin may be tailored to the 
clinical response. 
Not studied. Concomitant use of 
bosentan and boosted darunavir 
may increase plasma concentrations 
of bosentan. 
Bosentan is expected to decrease 
plasma concentrations of darunavir 
and/or its pharmacoenhancer. 
(CYP3A induction) 
Boosted darunavir may increase the 
exposure to grazoprevir. 
(CYP3A and OATP1B inhibition). 
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted darunavir may increase the 
exposure to glecaprevir and 
pibrentasvir. 
(P-gp, BCRP and/or OATP1B1/3 
inhibition) 
Not studied. St John's wort is 
expected to decrease the plasma 
concentrations of darunavir or its 
pharmacoenhancers. 
(CYP450 induction) 
HEPATITIS C VIRUS (HCV) DIRECT-ACTING ANTIVIRALS 
NS3-4A protease inhibitors 
Elbasvir/grazoprevir 
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir 
HERBAL PRODUCTS 
St John's wort 
(Hypericum perforatum) 
HMG CO-A REDUCTASE INHIBITORS 
Lovastatin  
Simvastatin 
Atorvastatin 
10 mg once daily 
Not studied. Lovastatin and 
simvastatin are expected to have 
markedly increased plasma 
concentrations when co- 
administered with boosted 
darunavir. 
(CYP3A inhibition) 
atorvastatin AUC ↑ 3-4 fold  
atorvastatin Cmin ↑ ≈5.5-10 fold  
atorvastatin Cmax ↑ ≈2 fold 
#darunavir/ritonavir 
atorvastatin AUC ↑ 290% Ω  
atorvastatin Cmax ↑ 319% Ω  
atorvastatin Cmin ND Ω 
Ω with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg 
61 
 
 
Interaction 
Geometric mean change (%) 
pravastatin AUC ↑ 81%¶  
pravastatin Cmin ND  
pravastatin Cmax ↑ 63% 
¶ an up to five-fold increase was 
seen in a limited subset of subjects 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Recommendations concerning co- 
Medicinal products by 
administration 
therapeutic areas 
When administration of pravastatin 
Pravastatin 
and boosted darunavir is required, it 
40 mg single dose 
is recommended to start with the 
lowest possible dose of pravastatin 
and titrate up to the desired clinical 
effect while monitoring for safety. 
When administration of rosuvastatin 
and boosted darunavir is required, it 
is recommended to start with the 
lowest possible dose of rosuvastatin 
and titrate up to the desired clinical 
effect while monitoring for safety. 
rosuvastatin AUC ↑ 48%║ 
rosuvastatin Cmax ↑ 144%║ 
║ based on published data with 
darunavir/ritonavir 
Rosuvastatin 
10 mg once daily 
rosuvastatin AUC ↑ 93%§  
rosuvastatin Cmax ↑ 277%§  
rosuvastatin Cmin ND§ 
§ with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg 
OTHER LIPID MODIFYING AGENTS 
Lomitapide 
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted darunavir is expected to 
increase the exposure of lomitapide 
when co-administered. 
(CYP3A inhibition) 
Co-administration is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3). 
H2-RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS 
Ranitidine 
150 mg twice daily 
#darunavir AUC ↔  
#darunavir Cmin ↔  
#darunavir Cmax ↔ 
Boosted darunavir can be co- 
administered with H2-receptor 
antagonists without dose adjustments. 
IMMUNOSUPPRESSANTS 
Ciclosporin  
Sirolimus  
Tacrolimus  
Everolimus 
Not studied. Exposure to these 
immunosuppressants will be 
increased when co-administered 
with boosted darunavir. (CYP3A 
inhibition) 
Therapeutic drug monitoring of the 
immunosuppressive agent must be 
done when co-administration occurs. 
Concomitant use of everolimus and 
boosted darunavir is not 
recommended. 
INHALED BETA AGONISTS 
Salmeterol 
Not studied. Concomitant use of 
salmeterol and boosted darunavir 
may increase plasma concentrations 
of salmeterol. 
Concomitant use of salmeterol and 
boosted darunavir is not 
recommended. The combination may 
result in increased risk of 
cardiovascular adverse event with 
salmeterol, including QT 
prolongation, palpitations and sinus 
tachycardia. 
NARCOTIC ANALGESICS / TREATMENT OF OPIOID DEPENDENCE 
Methadone 
individual dose ranging from 
55 mg to 150 mg once daily 
R(-) methadone AUC ↓ 16% R(-)  
methadone Cmin ↓ 15% R(-)  
methadone Cmax ↓ 24% 
No adjustment of methadone dosage 
is required when initiating co- 
administration with boosted 
darunavir. However, adjustment of 
the methadone dose may be 
necessary when concomitantly 
administered for a longer period of 
time. Therefore, clinical monitoring 
is recommended, as maintenance 
therapy may need to be adjusted in 
some patients. 
Darunavir/cobicistat may, in 
contrast, increase methadone 
plasma concentrations (see 
cobicistat SmPC). 
62 
 
 
 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Recommendations concerning co- 
Medicinal products by 
administration 
therapeutic areas 
The clinical relevance of the increase 
Buprenorphine/naloxone  
in norbuprenorphine pharmacokinetic 
8/2 mg–16/4 mg once daily 
parameters has not been established. 
Dose adjustment for buprenorphine 
may not be necessary when co- 
administered with boosted darunavir 
but a careful clinical monitoring for 
signs of opiate toxicity is 
recommended. 
Clinical monitoring is recommended 
when co-administering boosted 
darunavir with these analgesics. 
Interaction 
Geometric mean change (%) 
buprenorphine AUC ↓ 11%  
buprenorphine Cmin ↔  
buprenorphine Cmax ↓ 8%  
norbuprenorphine AUC ↑ 46%  
norbuprenorphine Cmin ↑ 71%  
norbuprenorphine Cmax ↑ 36%  
naloxone AUC ↔ 
naloxone Cmin ND  
naloxone Cmax ↔ 
Based on theoretical considerations 
boosted darunavir may increase 
plasma concentrations of these 
analgesics. 
(CYP2D6 and/or CYP3A 
inhibition) 
Fentanyl  
Oxycodone  
Tramadol 
OESTROGEN-BASED CONTRACEPTIVES 
Drospirenone  
Ethinylestradiol 
(3 mg/0.02 mg once daily) 
drospirenone AUC ↑ 58%€  
drospirenone Cmin ND€  
drospirenone Cmax ↑ 15%€  
ethinylestradiol AUC ↓ 30%€  
ethinylestradiol Cmin ND€  
ethinylestradiol Cmax ↓ 14%€ 
€ with darunavir/cobicistat 
Ethinylestradiol  
Norethindrone 
35 μg/1 mg once daily 
ethinylestradiol AUC ↓ 44%  
ethinylestradiol Cmin ↓ 62%  
ethinylestradiol Cmax ↓ 32%  
norethindrone AUC ↓ 14%  
norethindrone Cmin ↓ 30%  
norethindrone Cmax ↔ 
β with darunavir/ritonavir 
OPIOID ANTAGONIST 
Naloxegol 
Not studied. 
PHOSPHODIESTERASE, TYPE 5 (PDE-5) INHIBITORS 
For the treatment of erectile 
dysfunction 
Avanafil  
Sildenafil  
Tadalafil  
Vardenafil 
In an interaction study #, a 
comparable systemic exposure to 
sildenafil was observed for a single 
intake of 100 mg sildenafil alone 
and a single intake of 25 mg 
sildenafil co-administered with 
darunavir and low dose ritonavir. 
When darunavir is coadministered 
with a drospirenone-containing 
product, clinical monitoring is 
recommended due to the potential for 
hyperkalaemia. 
Alternative or additional 
contraceptive measures are 
recommended when oestrogen-based 
contraceptives are co- administered 
with boosted darunavir. Patients 
using oestrogens as hormone 
replacement therapy should be 
clinically monitored for signs of 
oestrogen deficiency. 
Co-administration of boosted 
darunavir and naloxegol is 
contraindicated. 
The combination of avanafil and 
boosted darunavir is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3). 
Concomitant use of other PDE-5 
inhibitors for the treatment of erectile 
dysfunction with boosted darunavir 
should be done with caution. If 
concomitant use of boosted darunavir 
with sildenafil, vardenafil or tadalafil 
is indicated, sildenafil at a single 
dose not exceeding 25 mg in 48 
hours, vardenafil at a single dose not 
exceeding 2.5 mg in 72 hours or 
tadalafil at a single dose not 
exceeding 10 mg in 72 hours is 
recommended. 
63 
 
 
 
Interaction 
Geometric mean change (%) 
Not studied. Concomitant use of 
sildenafil or tadalafil for the 
treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension and boosted darunavir 
may increase plasma concentrations 
of sildenafil or tadalafil. 
(CYP3A inhibition) 
INTERACTIONS AND DOSE RECOMMENDATIONS WITH OTHER MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
Recommendations concerning co- 
Medicinal products by 
administration 
therapeutic areas 
A safe and effective dose of sildenafil 
For the treatment of 
for the treatment of pulmonary 
pulmonary arterial 
arterial hypertension co-administered 
hypertension 
with boosted darunavir has not been 
Sildenafil  
established. There is an increased 
Tadalafil 
potential for sildenafil-associated 
adverse events (including visual 
disturbances, hypotension, prolonged 
erection and syncope). Therefore, co- 
administration of boosted darunavir 
and sildenafil when used for the 
treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3). 
Co-administration of tadalafil for the 
treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension with boosted darunavir 
is not recommended. 
PROTON PUMP INHIBITORS 
Omeprazole 
20 mg once daily 
#darunavir AUC ↔  
#darunavir Cmin ↔  
#darunavir Cmax ↔ 
Boosted darunavir can be co- 
administered with proton pump 
inhibitors without dose adjustments. 
SEDATIVES/HYPNOTICS 
Buspirone  
Clorazepate  
Diazepam  
Estazolam  
Flurazepam 
Midazolam (parenteral)  
Zolpidem 
Not studied. Sedative/hypnotics are 
extensively metabolised by 
CYP3A. Co-administration with 
boosted darunavir may cause a 
large increase in the concentration 
of these medicines. 
Clinical monitoring is recommended 
when co-administering boosted 
darunavir with these 
sedatives/hypnotics and a lower dose 
of the sedatives/hypnotics should be 
considered. 
If parenteral midazolam is co- 
administered with boosted 
darunavir it may cause a large 
increase in the concentration of this 
benzodiazepine. Data from 
concomitant use of parenteral 
midazolam with other protease 
inhibitors suggest a possible 3-4 
fold increase in midazolam plasma 
levels. 
Midazolam (oral)  
Triazolam 
TREATMENT FOR PREMATURE EJACULATION 
Dapoxetine 
Not studied. 
UROLOGICAL DRUGS 
Fesoterodine  
Solifenacin 
Not studied. 
If parenteral midazolam is co- 
administered with boosted darunavir, 
it should be done in an intensive care 
unit (ICU) or similar setting, which 
ensures close clinical monitoring and 
appropriate medical management in 
case of respiratory depression and/or 
prolonged sedation. Dose adjustment 
for midazolam should be considered, 
especially if more than a single dose 
of midazolam is administered. 
Boosted darunavir with triazolam or 
oral midazolam is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3) 
Co-administration of boosted 
darunavir with dapoxetine is 
contraindicated. 
Use with caution. Monitor for 
fesoterodine or solifenacin adverse 
reactions, dose reduction of 
fesoterodine or solifenacin may be 
necessary. 
#  Studies have been performed at lower than recommended doses of darunavir or with a different dosing regimen (see 
section 4.2 Posology). 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
†  The efficacy and safety of the use of darunavir with 100 mg ritonavir and any other HIV PI (e.g. (fos)amprenavir and 
tipranavir) has not been established in HIV patients. According to current treatment guidelines, dual therapy with 
protease inhibitors is generally not recommended. 
‡  Study was conducted with tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg once daily. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
As a general rule, when deciding to use antiretroviral agents for the treatment of HIV infection in 
pregnant women and consequently for reducing the risk of HIV vertical transmission to the newborn, 
the animal data as well as the clinical experience in pregnant women should be taken into account. 
There are no adequate and well controlled studies on pregnancy outcome with darunavir in pregnant 
women. Studies in animals do not indicate direct harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, 
embryonal/foetal development, parturition or postnatal development (see section 5.3). 
Treatment with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg during pregnancy results in low darunavir exposure 
(see section 5.2), which may be associated with an increased risk of treatment failure and an increased 
risk of HIV transmission to the child. Therapy with Darunavir/cobicistat should not be initiated during 
pregnancy, and women who become pregnant during therapy with Darunavir/cobicistat should be 
switched to an alternative regimen (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Darunavir co-administered with low dose ritonavir should be used during pregnancy only if the 
potential benefit justifies the potential risk. 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether darunavir is excreted in human milk. Studies in rats have demonstrated that 
darunavir is excreted in milk and at high levels (1,000 mg/kg/day) resulted in toxicity of the offspring. 
Because of the potential for adverse reactions in breast-fed infants, women should be instructed not to 
breast-feed if they are receiving darunavir. 
In order to avoid transmission of HIV to the infant it is recommended that women living with HIV do 
not breast-feed. 
Fertility 
No human data on the effect of darunavir on fertility are available. There was no effect on mating or 
fertility with darunavir treatment in rats (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Darunavir in combination with cobicistat or ritonavir has no or negligible influence on the ability to 
drive and use machines. However, dizziness has been reported in some patients during treatment with 
regimens containing darunavir co-administered with cobicistat or low dose ritonavir and should be 
borne in mind when considering a patient's ability to drive or operate machinery (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
During the clinical development program (N=2,613 treatment-experienced subjects who initiated 
therapy with darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily), 51.3% of subjects experienced at least one 
adverse reaction. The total mean treatment duration for subjects was 95.3 weeks. The most frequent 
adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and as spontaneous reports are diarrhoea, nausea, rash, 
headache and vomiting. The most frequent serious reactions are acute renal failure, myocardial 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
infarction, immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, thrombocytopenia, osteonecrosis, 
diarrhoea, hepatitis and pyrexia. 
In the 96 week analysis, the safety profile of darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily in treatment- 
naïve subjects was similar to that seen with darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily in treatment- 
experienced subjects except for nausea which was observed more frequently in treatment-naïve 
subjects. This was driven by mild intensity nausea. No new safety findings were identified in the 192 
week analysis of the treatment-naïve subjects in which the mean treatment duration of 
darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily was 162.5 weeks. 
During the Phase III clinical trial GS-US-216-130 with darunavir/cobicistat (N=313 treatment-naïve 
and treatment-experienced subjects), 66.5% of subjects experienced at least one adverse reaction. The 
mean treatment duration was 58.4 weeks. The most frequent adverse reactions reported were diarrhoea 
(28%), nausea (23%), and rash (16%). Serious adverse reactions are diabetes mellitus, (drug) 
hypersensitivity, immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, rash and vomiting. 
For information on cobicistat, consult the cobicistat Summary of Product Characteristics.  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions are listed by system organ class (SOC) and frequency category. Within each 
frequency category, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. Frequency 
categories are defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon 
(≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000) and not known (frequency cannot be estimated 
from the available data). 
Adverse reactions observed with darunavir/ritonavir in clinical trials and post-marketing 
MedDRA system organ class  
Frequency category 
Infections and infestations 
Uncommon 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Immune system disorders 
Uncommon 
Endocrine disorders 
Uncommon 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Adverse reaction 
herpes simplex 
thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, anaemia, leucopenia 
increased eosinophil count 
immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, (drug) 
hypersensitivity 
hypothyroidism, increased blood thyroid stimulating 
hormone 
diabetes mellitus, hypertriglyceridaemia, 
hypercholesterolaemia, hyperlipidaemia 
gout, anorexia, decreased appetite, decreased weight, 
increased weight, hyperglycaemia, insulin resistance, 
decreased high density lipoprotein, increased appetite, 
polydipsia, increased blood lactate dehydrogenase 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA system organ class  
Frequency category 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common  
Uncommon 
Rare 
Nervous system disorders 
Common  
Uncommon 
Rare 
Eye disorders 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Uncommon 
Cardiac disorders 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Vascular disorders 
Uncommon 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Uncommon 
Adverse reaction 
insomnia 
depression, disorientation, anxiety, sleep disorder, 
abnormal dreams, nightmare, decreased libido 
confusional state, altered mood, restlessness 
headache, peripheral neuropathy, dizziness 
lethargy, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, dysgeusia, 
disturbance in attention, memory impairment, somnolence 
syncope, convulsion, ageusia, sleep phase rhythm 
disturbance 
conjunctival hyperaemia, dry eye 
visual disturbance 
vertigo 
myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, prolonged 
electrocardiogram QT, tachycardia 
acute myocardial infarction, sinus bradycardia, palpitations 
hypertension, flushing 
dyspnoea, cough, epistaxis, throat irritation 
Rare 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common  
rhinorrhoea 
diarrhoea 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common  
Uncommon 
vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain, increased blood 
amylase, dyspepsia, abdominal distension, flatulence 
pancreatitis, gastritis, gastrooesophageal reflux disease, 
aphthous stomatitis, retching, dry mouth, abdominal 
discomfort, constipation, increased lipase, eructation, oral 
dysaesthesia 
stomatitis, haematemesis, cheilitis, dry lip, coated tongue 
increased alanine aminotransferase 
hepatitis, cytolytic hepatitis, hepatic steatosis, 
hepatomegaly, increased transaminase, increased aspartate 
aminotransferase, increased blood bilirubin, increased 
blood alkaline phosphatase, increased gamma- 
glutamyltransferase 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA system organ class  
Frequency category 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Common  
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon 
Adverse reaction 
rash (including macular, maculopapular, papular, 
erythematous and pruritic rash), pruritus 
angioedema, generalised rash, allergic dermatitis, urticaria, 
eczema, erythema, hyperhidrosis, night sweats, alopecia, 
acne, dry skin, nail pigmentation 
DRESS, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, 
dermatitis, seborrhoeic dermatitis, skin lesion, xeroderma 
toxic epidermal necrolysis, acute generalised 
exanthematous pustulosis 
myalgia, osteonecrosis, muscle spasms, muscular 
weakness, arthralgia, pain in extremity, osteoporosis, 
increased blood creatine phosphokinase 
musculoskeletal stiffness, arthritis, joint stiffness 
acute renal failure, renal failure, nephrolithiasis, increased 
blood creatinine, proteinuria, bilirubinuria, dysuria, 
nocturia, pollakiuria 
Rare 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Uncommon 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Common  
erectile dysfunction, gynaecomastia 
asthenia, fatigue 
decreased creatinine renal clearance, crystal nephropathy§ 
Uncommon 
pyrexia, chest pain, peripheral oedema, malaise, feeling 
hot, irritability, pain 
Rare 
§ 
adverse reaction identified in the post-marketing setting. Per the guideline on Summary of Product Characteristics 
(Revision 2, September 2009), the frequency of this adverse reaction in the post-marketing setting was determined using 
the "Rule of 3". 
chills, abnormal feeling, xerosis 
Adverse reactions observed with darunavir/cobicistat in adult patients 
MedDRA system organ class  
Frequency category 
Immune system disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Common 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common 
Adverse reaction 
(drug) hypersensitivity 
immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome 
anorexia, diabetes mellitus, hypercholesterolaemia, 
hypertriglyceridaemia, hyperlipidaemia 
abnormal dreams 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA system organ class  
Frequency category 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Rare 
Not known 
Adverse reaction 
headache 
diarrhoea, nausea 
vomiting, abdominal pain, abdominal distension, 
dyspepsia, flatulence, pancreatic enzymes increased 
pancreatitis acute 
hepatic enzyme increased 
hepatitis*, cytolytic hepatitis* 
rash (including macular, maculopapular, papular, 
erythematous, pruritic rash, generalised rash, and 
allergic dermatitis) 
angioedema, pruritus, urticaria 
drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic 
symptoms*, Stevens-Johnson syndrome* 
toxic epidermal necrolysis*, acute generalised 
exanthematous pustulosis* 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Common 
myalgia 
Uncommon 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Rare 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Uncommon 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Common 
osteonecrosis* 
crystal nephropathy*§ 
gynaecomastia* 
fatigue 
Uncommon 
Investigations 
Common 
* 
asthenia 
increased blood creatinine 
§ 
these adverse drug reactions have not been reported in clinical trial experience with darunavir/cobicistat but have been 
noted with darunavir/ritonavir treatment and could be expected with darunavir/cobicistat too. 
adverse reaction identified in the post-marketing setting. Per the guideline on Summary of Product Characteristics 
(Revision 2, September 2009), the frequency of this adverse reaction in the post-marketing setting was determined using 
the "Rule of 3". 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Rash 
In clinical trials, rash was mostly mild to moderate, often occurring within the first four weeks of 
treatment and resolving with continued dosing. In cases of severe skin reaction see the warning in 
section 4.4. In a single arm trial investigating darunavir 800 mg once daily in combination with 
cobicistat 150 mg once daily and other antiretrovirals 2.2% of patients discontinued treatment due to 
rash. 
During the clinical development program of raltegravir in treatment-experienced patients, rash, 
irrespective of causality, was more commonly observed with regimens containing darunavir/ritonavir 
+ raltegravir compared to those containing darunavir/ritonavir without raltegravir or raltegravir 
without darunavir/ritonavir. Rash considered by the investigator to be drug-related occurred at similar 
rates. The exposure-adjusted rates of rash (all causality) were 10.9, 4.2, and 3.8 per 100 patient-years 
(PYR), respectively; and for drug-related rash were 2.4, 1.1, and 2.3 per 100 PYR, respectively. The 
rashes observed in clinical studies were mild to moderate in severity and did not result in 
discontinuation of therapy (see section 4.4). 
Metabolic parameters 
Weight and levels of blood lipids and glucose may increase during antiretroviral therapy (see section 
4.4). 
Musculoskeletal abnormalities 
Increased CPK, myalgia, myositis and rarely, rhabdomyolysis have been reported with the use of 
protease inhibitors, particularly in combination with NRTIs. 
Cases of osteonecrosis have been reported, particularly in patients with generally acknowledged risk 
factors,  advanced  HIV  disease  or  long-term  exposure  to  combination  antiretroviral  therapy (CART). 
The frequency of this is unknown (see section 4.4). 
Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome 
In HIV infected patients with severe immune deficiency at the time of initiation of combination 
antiretroviral therapy (CART), an inflammatory reaction to asymptomatic or residual opportunistic 
infections may arise. Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease and autoimmune hepatitis) have 
also been reported; however, the reported time to onset is more variable and these events can occur 
many months after initiation of treatment (see section 4.4). 
Bleeding in haemophiliac patients 
There have been reports of increased spontaneous bleeding in haemophiliac patients receiving 
antiretroviral protease inhibitors (see section 4.4). 
Paediatric population 
The safety assessment of darunavir with ritonavir in paediatric patients is based on the 48-week 
analysis of safety data from three Phase II trials. The following patient populations were evaluated 
(see section 5.1): 
● 
● 
● 
80 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 6 to 17 years and weighing at 
least 20 kg who received darunavir tablets with low dose ritonavir twice daily in combination 
with other antiretroviral agents. 
21 ART-experienced HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 3 to < 6 years and weighing 
10 kg to < 20 kg (16 participants from 15 kg to < 20 kg) who received darunavir oral suspension 
with low dose ritonavir twice daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents. 
12 ART-naïve HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged from 12 to 17 years and weighing at least 
40 kg who received darunavir tablets with low dose ritonavir once daily in combination with 
other antiretroviral agents (see section 5.1). 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, the safety profile in these paediatric patients was similar to that observed in the adult 
population. 
The safety assessment of darunavir with cobicistat in paediatric patients was evaluated in adolescents 
aged 12 to less than 18 years, weighing at least 40 kg through the clinical trial GS-US-216-0128 
(treatment experienced, virologically suppressed, N=7). Safety analyses of this study in adolescent 
subjects did not identify new safety concerns compared to the known safety profile of darunavir and 
cobicistat in adult subjects. 
Other special populations 
Patients co-infected with hepatitis B and/or hepatitis C virus 
Among 1,968 treatment-experienced patients receiving darunavir co-administered with ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice daily, 236 patients were co-infected with hepatitis B or C. Co-infected patients were 
more likely to have baseline and treatment emergent hepatic transaminase elevations than those 
without chronic viral hepatitis (see section 4.4). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Human experience of acute overdose with darunavir co-administered with cobicistat or low dose 
ritonavir is limited. Single doses up to 3,200 mg of darunavir as oral solution alone and up to 1,600 mg 
of the tablet formulation of darunavir in combination with ritonavir have been administered to healthy 
volunteers without untoward symptomatic effects. 
There is no specific antidote for overdose with darunavir. Treatment of overdose with darunavir 
consists of general supportive measures including monitoring of vital signs and observation of the 
clinical status of the patient. Since darunavir is highly protein bound, dialysis is unlikely to be 
beneficial in significant removal of the active substance. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antivirals for systemic use, protease inhibitors, ATC code: J05AE10.  
Mechanism of action 
Darunavir is an inhibitor of the dimerisation and of the catalytic activity of the HIV-1 protease (KD of 
4.5 x 10-12M). It selectively inhibits the cleavage of HIV encoded Gag-Pol polyproteins in virus 
infected cells, thereby preventing the formation of mature infectious virus particles. 
Antiviral activity in vitro 
Darunavir exhibits activity against laboratory strains and clinical isolates of HIV-1 and laboratory 
strains of HIV-2 in acutely infected T-cell lines, human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and human 
monocytes/macrophages with median EC50 values ranging from 1.2 to 8.5 nM (0.7 to 5.0 ng/ml). 
Darunavir demonstrates antiviral activity in vitro against a broad panel of HIV-1 group M (A, B, C, D, 
E, F, G) and group O primary isolates with EC50 values ranging from < 0.1 to 4.3 nM. 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These EC50 values are well below the 50% cellular toxicity concentration range of 87 µM to 
> 100 µM. 
Resistance 
In vitro selection of darunavir-resistant virus from wild type HIV-1 was lengthy (> 3 years). The 
selected viruses were unable to grow in the presence of darunavir concentrations above 400 nM. 
Viruses selected in these conditions and showing decreased susceptibility to darunavir (range: 
23-50-fold) harboured 2 to 4 amino acid substitutions in the protease gene. The decreased 
susceptibility to darunavir of the emerging viruses in the selection experiment could not be explained 
by the emergence of these protease mutations. 
The clinical trial data from ART-experienced patients (TITAN trial and the pooled analysis of the 
POWER 1, 2 and 3 and DUET 1 and 2 trials) showed that virologic response to darunavir co-
administered with low dose ritonavir was decreased when 3 or more darunavir RAMs (V11I, V32I, 
L33F, I47V, I50V, I54L or M, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V) were present at baseline or when these 
mutations developed during treatment. 
Increasing baseline darunavir fold change in EC50 (FC) was associated with decreasing virologic 
response. A lower and upper clinical cut-off of 10 and 40 were identified. Isolates with baseline FC 
≤ 10 are susceptible; isolates with FC > 10 to 40 have decreased susceptibility; isolates with FC > 40 
are resistant (see Clinical results). 
Viruses isolated from patients on darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily experiencing virologic 
failure by rebound that were susceptible to tipranavir at baseline remained susceptible to tipranavir 
after treatment in the vast majority of cases. 
The lowest rates of developing resistant HIV virus are observed in ART-naïve patients who are treated 
for the first time with darunavir in combination with other ART. 
The table below shows the development of HIV-1 protease mutations and loss of susceptibility to PIs 
in virologic failures at endpoint in the ARTEMIS, ODIN and TITAN trials. 
ODIN 
Week 48 
darunavir/ ritonavir 
800/100 mg 
once daily 
N=294 
darunavir/ ritonavir 
600/100 mg 
twice daily 
N=296 
TITAN 
Week 48 
darunavir/ ritonavir 
600/100 mg 
twice daily 
N=298 
ARTEMIS 
Week 192 
darunavir/ 
ritonavir 
800/100 mg 
once daily 
N=343 
55 (16.0%) 
65 (22.1%) 
54 (18.2%) 
39 (11.4%) 
16 (4.7%) 
Total number of 
virologic failuresa,  
n (%) 
Rebounders  
Never suppressed 
subjects 
Number of subjects with virologic failure and paired baseline/endpoint genotypes, developing mutationsb at 
endpoint, n/N 
Primary (major) PI 
mutations 
PI RAMs 
11 (3.7%) 
43 (14.5%) 
11 (3.7%) 
54 (18.4%) 
10/28 
6/28 
7/60 
1/60 
0/42 
4/42 
0/43 
4/43 
16 (5.4%) 
15 (5.0%) 
31 (10.4%) 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTEMIS 
Week 192 
darunavir/ 
ritonavir 
800/100 mg 
once daily 
N=343 
ODIN 
Week 48 
darunavir/ ritonavir 
800/100 mg 
once daily 
N=294 
darunavir/ ritonavir 
600/100 mg 
twice daily 
N=296 
TITAN 
Week 48 
darunavir/ ritonavir 
600/100 mg 
twice daily 
N=298 
Number of subjects with virologic failure and paired baseline/endpoint phenotypes, showing loss of susceptibility to 
PIs at endpoint compared to baseline, n/N 
PI 
darunavir  
amprenavir  
atazanavir  
indinavir  
lopinavir  
saquinavir  
tipranavir 
0/39 
0/39 
0/39 
0/39 
0/39 
0/39 
0/39 
3/26 
0/22 
0/22 
1/24 
0/23 
0/22 
1/25 
1/58 
1/58 
2/56 
2/57 
1/58 
0/56 
0/58 
0/41 
0/40 
0/40 
0/40 
0/40 
0/40 
0/41 
a  TLOVR non-VF censored algorithm based on HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml, except for TITAN (HIV-1 RNA < 400 
copies/ml) 
IAS-USA lists 
b 
Low rates of developing resistant HIV-1 virus were observed in ART-naïve patients who are treated 
for the first time with darunavir/cobicistat once daily in combination with other ART, and in ART- 
experienced patients with no darunavir RAMs receiving darunavir/cobicistat in combination with other 
ART. The table below shows the development of HIV-1 protease mutations and resistance to PIs in 
virologic failures at endpoint in the GS-US-216-130 trial. 
GS-US-216-130 
Week 48 
Treatment-naïve  
darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg  
once daily 
N=295 
Treatment-experienced  
darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg  
once daily 
N=18 
0/8 
2/8 
Number of subjects with virologic failurea and genotype data that develop mutationsb at endpoint, n/N 
Primary (major) PI mutations 
PI RAMs 
Number of subjects with virologic failurea and phenotype data that show resistance to PIs at endpointc, n/N 
HIV PI 
darunavir 
amprenavir 
atazanavir 
indinavir 
lopinavir 
saquinavir 
tipranavir 
0/8 
0/8 
0/8 
0/8 
0/8 
0/8 
0/8 
0/7 
0/7 
0/7 
0/7 
0/7 
0/7 
0/7 
1/7 
1/7 
a  Virogic failures were defined as: never suppressed: confirmed HIV-1 RNA < 1 log10 reduction from baseline and ≥ 50 
copies/ml at the week-8; rebound: HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml followed by confirmed HIV-1 RNA to ≥ 400 copies/ml or 
confirmed > 1 log10 HIV-1 RNA increase from the nadir; discontinuations with HIV-1 RNA ≥ 400 copies/ml at last visit 
IAS-USA lists 
In GS-US216-130 baseline phenotype was not available 
b 
c 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cross-resistance 
Darunavir FC was less than 10 for 90% of 3,309 clinical isolates resistant to amprenavir, atazanavir, 
indinavir, lopinavir, nelfinavir, ritonavir, saquinavir and/or tipranavir showing that viruses resistant to 
most PIs remain susceptible to darunavir. 
In the virologic failures of the ARTEMIS trial no cross-resistance with other PIs was observed. In the 
virologic failures of the GS-US-216-130 trial no cross-resistance with other HIV PIs was observed. 
Clinical results 
The pharmacokinetic enhancing effect of cobicistat on darunavir was evaluated in a Phase I study in 
healthy subjects that were administered darunavir 800 mg with either cobicistat at 150 mg or ritonavir 
at 100 mg once daily. The steady-state pharmacokinetic parameters of darunavir were comparable 
when boosted with cobicistat versus ritonavir. For information on cobicistat, consult the cobicistat 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Adult patients 
Efficacy of darunavir 800 mg once daily co-administered with 150 mg cobicistat once daily in ART-
naïve and ART-experienced patients 
GS-US-216-130 is a single arm, open-label, Phase III trial evaluating the pharmacokinetics, safety, 
tolerability, and efficacy of darunavir with cobicistat in 313 HIV-1 infected adult patients (295 
treatment-naïve and 18 treatment-experienced). These patients received darunavir 800 mg once daily 
in combination with cobicistat 150 mg once daily with an investigator selected background regimen 
consisting of 2 active NRTIs. 
HIV-1 infected patients who were eligible for this trial had a screening genotype showing no darunavir 
RAMs and plasma HIV-1 RNA ≥ 1,000 copies/ml. The table below shows the efficacy data of the 48 
week analyses from the GS-US-216-130 trial: 
Outcomes at Week 48 
Treatment-naïve 
darunavir/cobicistat 
800/150 mg once daily 
+ OBR  
N=295 
245 (83.1%) 
HIV-1 RNA 
< 50 copies/mla 
mean HIV-1 RNA log 
change from baseline (log10 
copies/ml) 
CD4+ cell count mean 
change from baselineb 
a 
b  Last Observation Carried Forward imputation 
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm 
-3.01 
+174 
GS-US-216-130 
Treatment-experienced 
darunavir/cobicistat 
800/150 mg once daily 
+ OBR  
N=18 
8 (44.4%) 
All subjects 
darunavir/cobicistat 
800/150 mg once daily 
+ OBR  
N=313 
253 (80.8%) 
-2.39 
+102 
-2.97 
+170 
Efficacy of darunavir 800 mg once daily co-administered with 100 mg ritonavir once daily in ART- 
naïve patients 
The evidence of efficacy of darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily is based on the analyses of 192 
week data from the randomised, controlled, open-label Phase III trial ARTEMIS in antiretroviral 
treatment-naïve HIV-1 infected patients comparing darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily with 
lopinavir/ritonavir 800/200 mg per day (given as a twice-daily or as a once-daily regimen). Both arms 
used a fixed background regimen consisting of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg once daily and 
emtricitabine 200 mg once daily. 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The table below shows the efficacy data of the 48 week and 96 week analyses from the ARTEMIS 
trial: 
ARTEMIS 
Treatment 
difference 
(95% CI of 
difference) 
Week 48a 
Lopinavir/ 
ritonavir 
800/200 mg 
per day 
N=346 
Darunavir/ 
ritonavir 
800/100 mg 
once daily 
N=343 
Darunavir/ 
ritonavir 
800/100 mg 
once daily 
N=343 
Week 96b 
Lopinavir/ 
ritonavir 
800/200 mg 
per day 
N=346 
Treatment 
difference 
(95% CI of 
difference) 
83.7% 
(287) 
85.8% 
(194/226) 
79.5% 
(93/117) 
79.4% 
(112/141) 
86.6% 
(175/202) 
78.3% 
(271) 
84.5% 
(191/226) 
5.3% 
(-0.5; 11.2)d 
1.3% 
(-5.2; 7.9)d 
79.0% 
(271) 
80.5% 
(182/226) 
70.8% 
(245) 
75.2% 
(170/226) 
8.2% 
(1.7; 14.7)d 
5.3% 
(-2.3; 13.0)d 
66.7% 
(80/120) 
12.8% 
(1.6; 24.1)d 
76.1% 
(89/117) 
62.5% 
(75/120) 
13.6% 
(1.9; 25.3)d 
70.3% 
(104/148) 
9.2% 
(-0.8; 19.2)d 
78.7% 
(111/141) 
64.9% 
(96/148) 
13.9% 
(3.5; 24.2)d 
84.3% 
(167/198) 
2.3% 
(-4.6; 9.2)d 
79.2% 
(160/202) 
75.3% 
(149/198) 
4.0% 
(-4.3; 12.2)d 
137 
141 
171 
188 
Outcomes 
HIV-1 RNA 
< 50 copies/mlc 
All patients 
With baseline 
HIV-RNA 
< 100,000 
With baseline 
HIV-RNA 
≥ 100,000 
With baseline 
CD4+ cell 
count < 200 
With baseline 
CD4+ cell 
count ≥ 200 
median CD4+ 
cell count 
change from 
baseline 
(x 106/L)e 
a  Data based on analyses at week 48 
b  Data based on analyses at week 96 
c 
d  Based on normal approximation to the difference in % response 
e  Non-completer is failure imputation: patients who discontinued prematurely are imputed with a change equal to 0 
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm 
Non-inferiority in virologic response to the darunavir/ritonavir treatment, defined as the percentage of 
patients with plasma HIV-1 RNA level < 50 copies/ml, was demonstrated (at the pre-defined 12% 
non-inferiority margin) for both Intent-To-Treat (ITT) and On Protocol (OP) populations in the 48 
week analysis. These results were confirmed in the analyses of data at 96 weeks of treatment in the 
ARTEMIS trial. These results were sustained up to 192 weeks of treatment in the ARTEMIS trial. 
Efficacy of darunavir 800 mg once daily co-administered with 100 mg ritonavir once daily in ART-
experienced patients 
ODIN is a Phase III, randomised, open-label trial comparing darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once 
daily versus darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily in ART-experienced HIV-1 infected patients 
with screening genotype resistance testing showing no darunavir RAMs (i.e. V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, 
I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V, L89V) and a screening HIV-1 RNA > 1,000 copies/ml. 
Efficacy analysis is based on 48 weeks of treatment (see table below). Both arms used an optimised 
background regimen (OBR) of ≥ 2 NRTIs. 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes 
HIV-1 RNA 
< 50 copies/mla 
With Baseline HIV-1 
RNA (copies/ml) 
< 100,000 
≥ 100,000 
With Baseline CD4+ 
cell count (x 106/L) 
≥ 100 
< 100 
With HIV-1 clade 
Type B 
Type AE 
Type C 
Otherc 
ODIN 
Darunavir/ritonavir 
800/100 mg once  
daily + OBR  
N=294 
Darunavir/ritonavir 
600/100 mg twice  
daily + OBR  
N=296 
Treatment difference  
(95% CI of difference) 
72.1% (212) 
70.9% (210) 
1.2% (-6.1; 8.5)b 
77.6% (198/255) 
35.9% (14/39) 
73.2% (194/265) 
51.6% (16/31) 
4.4% (-3.0; 11.9) 
-15.7% (-39.2; 7.7) 
75.1% (184/245) 
57.1% (28/49) 
72.5% (187/258) 
60.5% (23/38) 
2.6% (-5.1; 10.3) 
-3.4% (-24.5; 17.8) 
70.4% (126/179) 
90.5% (38/42) 
72.7% (32/44) 
55.2% (16/29) 
108 
64.3% (128/199) 
91.2% (31/34) 
78.8% (26/33) 
83.3% (25/30) 
112 
6.1% (-3.4; 15.6) 
-0.7% (-14.0; 12.6) 
-6.1% (-2.6; 13.7) 
-28.2% (-51.0; -5.3) 
-5d (-25; 16) 
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm 
mean CD4+ cell count 
change from baseline (x 
106/L)e 
a 
b  Based on a normal approximation of the difference in % response 
c  Clades A1, D, F1, G, K, CRF02_AG, CRF12_BF, and CRF06_CPX 
d  Difference in means 
e  Last Observation Carried Forward imputation 
At 48 weeks, virologic response, defined as the percentage of patients with plasma HIV-1 RNA level 
< 50 copies/ml, with darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily treatment was demonstrated to be non-
inferior (at the pre-defined 12% non-inferiority margin) compared to darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg 
twice daily for both ITT and OP populations. 
Darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily in ART-experienced patients should not be used in patients 
with one or more darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs) or HIV-1 RNA 
≥ 100,000 copies/ml or CD4+ cell count < 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2 and 4.4). Limited data is 
available in patients with HIV-1 clades other than B. 
Paediatric patients 
ART-naïve paediatric patients from the age of 12 years to < 18 years, and weighing at least 40 kg 
DIONE is an open-label, Phase II trial evaluating the pharmacokinetics, safety, tolerability, and 
efficacy of darunavir with low dose ritonavir in 12 ART-naïve HIV-1 infected paediatric patients aged 
12 to less than 18 years and weighing at least 40 kg. These patients received darunavir/ritonavir 
800/100 mg once daily in combination with other antiretroviral agents. Virologic response was defined 
as a decrease in plasma HIV-1 RNA viral load of at least 1.0 log10 versus baseline. 
Outcomes at week 48 
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mla 
CD4+ percent change from baselineb 
Darunavir/ritonavir  
N=12 
83.3% (10) 
14 
DIONE 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DIONE 
Outcomes at week 48 
CD4+ cell count mean change from baselineb 
≥ 1.0 log10 decrease from baseline in plasma viral load 
Darunavir/ritonavir  
N=12 
221 
100% 
Imputations according to the TLOVR algorithm. 
a 
b  Non-completer is failure imputation: patients who discontinued prematurely are imputed with a change equal to 0. 
In the open-label, Phase II/III trial GS-US-216-0128, the efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetics of 
darunavir 800 mg and cobicistat 150 mg (administered as separate tablets) and at least 2 NRTIs were 
evaluated in 7 HIV-1 infected, treatment-experienced, virologically suppressed adolescents weighing 
at least 40 kg. Patients were on a stable antiretroviral regimen (for at least 3 months), consisting of 
darunavir administered with ritonavir, combined with 2 NRTIs. They were switched from ritonavir to 
cobicistat 150 mg once daily and continued darunavir (N=7) and 2 NRTIs. 
Virologic outcome in ART-experienced, virologically suppressed adolescents at week 48 
GS-US-216-0128 
Outcomes at Week 48 
HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/mL per FDA Snapshot 
Approach 
CD4+ percent median change from baselinea 
CD4+ cell count median change from baselinea 
a  No imputation (observed data). 
Darunavir/cobicistat + at least 2 NRTIs 
(N=7) 
85.7% (6) 
-6.1% 
-342 cells/mm³ 
For additional clinical study results in ART-experienced adults and paediatric patients, refer to the 
Summary of Product Characteristics for Darunavir Mylan 75 mg, 150 mg, 300 mg or 600 mg tablets. 
Pregnancy and postpartum 
Darunavir/ritonavir (600/100 mg twice daily or 800/100 mg once daily) in combination with a 
background regimen was evaluated in a clinical trial of 36 pregnant women (18 in each arm) during 
the second and third trimesters, and postpartum. Virologic response was preserved throughout the 
study period in both arms. No mother to child transmission occurred in the infants born to the 
31 subjects who stayed on the antiretroviral treatment through delivery. There were no new clinically 
relevant safety findings compared with the known safety profile of darunavir/ritonavir in HIV-1 
infected adults (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetic properties of darunavir, co-administered with cobicistat or ritonavir, have been 
evaluated in healthy adult volunteers and in HIV-1 infected patients. Exposure to darunavir was higher 
in HIV-1 infected patients than in healthy subjects. The increased exposure to darunavir in HIV-1 
infected patients compared to healthy subjects may be explained by the higher concentrations of α1- 
acid glycoprotein (AAG) in HIV-1 infected patients, resulting in higher darunavir binding to plasma 
AAG and, therefore, higher plasma concentrations. 
Darunavir is primarily metabolised by CYP3A. Cobicistat and ritonavir inhibit CYP3A, thereby 
increasing the plasma concentrations of darunavir considerably. 
For information on cobicistat pharmacokinetic properties, consult the cobicistat Summary of Product 
Characteristics. 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absorption 
Darunavir was rapidly absorbed following oral administration. Maximum plasma concentration of 
darunavir in the presence of low dose ritonavir is generally achieved within 2.5-4.0 hours. 
The absolute oral bioavailability of a single 600 mg dose of darunavir alone was approximately 37% 
and increased to approximately 82% in the presence of 100 mg twice daily ritonavir. The overall 
pharmacokinetic enhancement effect by ritonavir was an approximate 14-fold increase in the systemic 
exposure of darunavir when a single dose of 600 mg darunavir was given orally in combination with 
ritonavir at 100 mg twice daily (see section 4.4). 
When administered without food, the relative bioavailability of darunavir in the presence of cobicistat 
or low dose ritonavir is lower as compared to intake with food. Therefore, darunavir tablets should be 
taken with cobicistat or ritonavir and with food. The type of food does not affect exposure to 
darunavir. 
Distribution 
Darunavir is approximately 95% bound to plasma protein. Darunavir binds primarily to plasma α1-acid 
glycoprotein. 
Following intravenous administration, the volume of distribution of darunavir alone was 88.1 ± 59.0 l 
(Mean ± SD) and increased to 131 ± 49.9 l (Mean ± SD) in the presence of 100 mg twice-daily 
ritonavir. 
Biotransformation 
In vitro experiments with human liver microsomes (HLMs) indicate that darunavir primarily 
undergoes oxidative metabolism. Darunavir is extensively metabolised by the hepatic CYP system and 
almost exclusively by isozyme CYP3A4. A 14C-darunavir trial in healthy volunteers showed that a 
majority of the radioactivity in plasma after a single 400/100 mg darunavir with ritonavir dose was due 
to the parent active substance. At least 3 oxidative metabolites of darunavir have been identified in 
humans; all showed activity that was at least 10-fold less than the activity of darunavir against wild 
type HIV. 
Elimination 
After a 400/100 mg 14C-darunavir with ritonavir dose, approximately 79.5% and 13.9% of the 
administered dose of 14C-darunavir could be retrieved in faeces and urine, respectively. Unchanged 
darunavir accounted for approximately 41.2% and 7.7% of the administered dose in faeces and urine, 
respectively. The terminal elimination half-life of darunavir was approximately 15 hours when 
combined with ritonavir. 
The intravenous clearance of darunavir alone (150 mg) and in the presence of low dose ritonavir was 
32.8 l/h and 5.9 l/h, respectively. 
Special populations 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken twice daily in 74 treatment- 
experienced paediatric patients, aged 6 to 17 years and weighing at least 20 kg, showed that the 
administered weight-based doses of darunavir/ritonavir resulted in darunavir exposure comparable to 
that in adults receiving darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily (see section 4.2). 
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken twice daily in 14 treatment- 
experienced paediatric patients, aged 3 to < 6 years and weighing at least 15 kg to < 20 kg, showed 
that weight-based dosages resulted in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that achieved in 
adults receiving darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily (see section 4.2). 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken once daily in 12 ART-naïve 
paediatric patients, aged 12 to < 18 years and weighing at least 40 kg, showed that darunavir/ritonavir 
800/100 mg once daily results in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that achieved in adults 
receiving darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily. Therefore the same once daily dosage may be 
used in treatment-experienced adolescents aged 12 to < 18 years and weighing at least 40 kg without 
darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs)* and who have plasma HIV-1 RNA 
< 100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count ≥ 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2). 
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V 
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir in combination with ritonavir taken once daily in 10 treatment- 
experienced paediatric patients, aged 3 to < 6 years and weighing at least 14 kg to < 20 kg, showed 
that weight-based dosages resulted in darunavir exposure that was comparable to that achieved in 
adults receiving darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily (see section 4.2). In addition, 
pharmacokinetic modeling and simulation of darunavir exposures in paediatric patients across the ages 
of 3 to < 18 years confirmed the darunavir exposures as observed in the clinical studies and allowed 
the identification of weight-based darunavir/ritonavir once daily dosing regimens for paediatric 
patients weighing at least 15 kg that are either ART-naïve or treatment-experienced paediatric patients 
without DRV-RAMs* and who have plasma HIV-1 RNA < 100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count 
≥ 100 cells x 106/L (see section 4.2). 
* DRV-RAMs: V11I, V32I, L33F, I47V, I50V, I54M, I54L, T74P, L76V, I84V and L89V 
The pharmacokinetics of darunavir 800 mg co-administered with cobicistat 150 mg in paediatric 
patients have been studied in 7 adolescents aged 12 to less than 18 years, weighing at least 40 kg in 
Study GS-US-216-0128. The geometric mean adolescent exposure (AUCtau) was similar for darunavir 
and increased 19% for cobicistat compared to exposures achieved in adults who received darunavir 
800 mg co-administered with cobicistat 150 mg in Study GS-US-216-0130. The difference observed 
for cobicistat was not considered clinically relevant. 
Adults in Study 
GS-US-216-0130, week 24 
(Reference)a 
Mean (%CV) 
GLSM 
60c 
Adolescents in Study  
GS-US-216-0128, day 10 
(Test)b 
Mean (%CV) 
GLSM 
7 
GLSM Ratio 
(90% CI) 
(Test/Reference) 
81,646 (32.2) 
77,534 
7,663 (25.1) 
7,422 
1,311 (74.0) 
947 
80,877 (29.5) 
77,217 
7,506 (21.7) 
7,319 
1,087 (91.6) 
676 
1.00 (0.79-1.26) 
0.99 (0.83-1.17) 
0.71 (0.34-1.48) 
N 
DRV PK 
Parameter 
AUCtau (h.ng/mL)d 
Cmax (ng/mL) 
Ctau (ng/mL)d 
COBI PK 
Parameter 
AUCtau (h.ng/mL)d 
Cmax (ng/mL) 
Ctau (ng/mL)d 
7,596 (48.1) 
7,022 
991 (33.4) 
945 
32.8 (289.4) 
17.2e 
a  Week 24 intensive PK data from subjects who received DRV 800 mg + COBI 150 mg. 
b  Day 10 intensive PK data from subjects who received DRV 800 mg + COBI 150 mg. 
c  N=59 for AUCtau and Ctau. 
d  Concentration at predose (0 hours) was used as surrogate for concentration at 24 hours for the purposes of estimating 
8,741 (34.9) 
8,330 
1,116 (20.0) 
1,095 
28.3 (157.2) 
22.0e 
1.19 (0.95-1.48) 
1.28 (0.51-3.22) 
1.16 (1.00-1.35) 
AUCtau and Ctau in Study GS-US-216-0128. 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
e  N=57 and N=5 for GLSM of Ctau in Study GS-US-216-0130 and Study GS-US-216-0128, respectively. 
Elderly 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis in HIV infected patients showed that darunavir pharmacokinetics 
are not considerably different in the age range (18 to 75 years) evaluated in HIV infected patients 
(n=12, age ≥ 65) (see section 4.4). However, only limited data were available in patients above the age 
of 65 year. 
Gender 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis showed a slightly higher darunavir exposure (16.8%) in HIV 
infected females compared to males. This difference is not clinically relevant. 
Renal impairment 
Results from a mass balance study with 14C-darunavir with ritonavir showed that approximately 7.7% 
of the administered dose of darunavir is excreted in the urine unchanged. 
Although darunavir has not been studied in patients with renal impairment, population 
pharmacokinetic analysis showed that the pharmacokinetics of darunavir were not significantly 
affected in HIV infected patients with moderate renal impairment (CrCl between 30-60 ml/min, n=20) 
(see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Hepatic impairment 
Darunavir is primarily metabolised and eliminated by the liver. In a multiple dose study with darunavir 
co-administered with ritonavir (600/100 mg) twice daily, it was demonstrated that the total plasma 
concentrations of darunavir in subjects with mild (Child-Pugh Class A, n=8) and moderate (Child- 
Pugh Class B, n=8) hepatic impairment were comparable with those in healthy subjects. However, 
unbound darunavir concentrations were approximately 55% (Child-Pugh Class A) and 100% (Child- 
Pugh Class B) higher, respectively. The clinical relevance of this increase is unknown therefore, 
darunavir should be used with caution. The effect of severe hepatic impairment on the 
pharmacokinetics of darunavir has not been studied (see sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4). 
Pregnancy and postpartum 
The exposure to total darunavir and ritonavir after intake of darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice 
daily and darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen was generally 
lower during pregnancy compared with postpartum. However, for unbound (i.e. active) darunavir, the 
pharmacokinetic parameters were less reduced during pregnancy compared to postpartum, due to an 
increase in the unbound fraction of darunavir during pregnancy compared to postpartum. 
Pharmacokinetic results of total darunavir after administration of darunavir/ritonavir at 600/100 mg 
twice daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen, during the second trimester of pregnancy, the third 
trimester of pregnancy and postpartum 
Pharmacokinetics of total 
darunavir  
(mean ± SD) 
Cmax, ng/ml 
AUC12h, ng.h/ml 
Cmin, ng/ml 
a   n=11 for AUC12h 
Second trimester of 
pregnancy 
(n=12)a 
4,668 ± 1,097 
39,370 ± 9,597 
1,922 ± 825 
Third trimester of 
pregnancy 
(n=12) 
5,328 ± 1,631 
45,880 ± 17,360 
2,661 ± 1,269 
Postpartum 
(6-12 weeks) 
(n=12) 
6,659 ± 2,364 
56,890 ± 26,340 
2,851 ± 2,216 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic results of total darunavir after administration of darunavir/ritonavir at 800/100 mg once 
daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen, during the second trimester of pregnancy, the third trimester of 
pregnancy and postpartum 
Pharmacokinetics of total 
darunavir  
(mean ± SD) 
Cmax, ng/ml 
AUC24h, ng.h/ml 
Cmin, ng/ml 
Second trimester of 
pregnancy 
(n=17) 
4,964 ± 1,505 
62,289 ± 16,234 
1,248 ± 542 
Third Trimester of 
pregnancy 
(n=15) 
5,132 ± 1,198 
61,112 ± 13,790 
1,075 ± 594 
Postpartum 
(6-12 weeks) 
(n=16) 
7,310 ± 1,704 
92,116 ± 29,241 
1,473 ± 1,141 
In women receiving darunavir/ritonavir 600/100 mg twice daily during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, mean intra-individual values for total darunavir Cmax, AUC12h and Cmin were 28%, 26% and 
26% lower, respectively, as compared with postpartum; during the third trimester of pregnancy, total 
darunavir Cmax, AUC12h and Cmin values were 18%, 16% lower and 2% higher, respectively, as 
compared with postpartum. 
In women receiving darunavir/ritonavir 800/100 mg once daily during the second trimester of 
pregnancy, mean intra-individual values for total darunavir Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin were 33%, 31% and 
30% lower, respectively, as compared with postpartum; during the third trimester of pregnancy, total 
darunavir Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin values were 29%, 32% and 50% lower, respectively, as compared 
with postpartum. 
Treatment with darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg once daily during pregnancy results in low darunavir 
exposure. In women receiving darunavir/cobicistat during the second trimester of pregnancy, mean 
intra-individual values for total darunavir Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin were 49%, 56% and 92% lower, 
respectively, as compared with postpartum; during the third trimester of pregnancy, total darunavir 
Cmax, AUC24h and Cmin values were 37%, 50% and 89% lower, respectively, as compared with 
postpartum. The unbound fraction was also substantially reduced, including around 90% reductions of 
Cmin levels. The main cause of these low exposures is a marked reduction in cobicistat exposure as a 
consequence of pregnancy-associated enzyme induction (see below). 
Pharmacokinetic results of total darunavir after administration of darunavir/cobicistat 800/150 mg once 
daily as part of an antiretroviral regimen, during the second trimester of pregnancy, the third trimester of 
pregnancy, and postpartum 
Pharmacokinetics of total 
darunavir (mean 
± SD) 
Cmax, ng/mL 
AUC24h, ng.h/mL 
Cmin, ng/mL 
The exposure to cobicistat was lower during pregnancy, potentially leading to suboptimal boosting of 
darunavir. During the second trimester of pregnancy, cobicistat Cmax, AUC24h, and Cmin were 50%, 
63%, and 83% lower, respectively, as compared with postpartum. During the third trimester of 
pregnancy, cobicistat Cmax, AUC24h, and Cmin, were 27%, 49%, and 83% lower, respectively, as 
compared with postpartum. 
Second trimester of 
pregnancy 
(n=7) 
4,340 ± 1,616 
47,293 ± 19,058 
168 ± 149 
Third trimester of 
pregnancy 
(n=6) 
4,910 ± 970 
47,991 ± 9,879 
184 ± 99 
Postpartum 
(6-12 weeks)  
(n=6) 
7,918 ± 2,199 
99,613 ± 34,862 
1,538 ± 1,344 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Animal toxicology studies have been conducted at exposures up to clinical exposure levels with 
darunavir alone, in mice, rats and dogs and in combination with ritonavir in rats and dogs. 
In repeated-dose toxicology studies in mice, rats and dogs, there were only limited effects of treatment 
with darunavir. In rodents the target organs identified were the haematopoietic system, the blood 
coagulation system, liver and thyroid. A variable but limited decrease in red blood cell-related 
parameters was observed, together with increases in activated partial thromboplastin time. 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Changes were observed in liver (hepatocyte hypertrophy, vacuolation, increased liver enzymes) and 
thyroid (follicular hypertrophy). In the rat, the combination of darunavir with ritonavir lead to a small 
increase in effect on RBC parameters, liver and thyroid and increased incidence of islet fibrosis in the 
pancreas (in male rats only) compared to treatment with darunavir alone. In the dog, no major toxicity 
findings or target organs were identified up to exposures equivalent to clinical exposure at the 
recommended dose. 
In a study conducted in rats, the number of corpora lutea and implantations were decreased in the 
presence of maternal toxicity. Otherwise, there were no effects on mating or fertility with darunavir 
treatment up to 1,000 mg/kg/day and exposure levels below (AUC-0.5 fold) of that in human at the 
clinically recommended dose. Up to same dose levels, there was no teratogenicity with darunavir in 
rats and rabbits when treated alone nor in mice when treated in combination with ritonavir. The 
exposure levels were lower than those with the recommended clinical dose in humans. In a pre- and 
postnatal development assessment in rats, darunavir with and without ritonavir, caused a transient 
reduction in body weight gain of the offspring pre-weaning and there was a slight delay in the opening 
of eyes and ears. Darunavir in combination with ritonavir caused a reduction in the number of pups 
that exhibited the startle response on day 15 of lactation and a reduced pup survival during lactation. 
These effects may be secondary to pup exposure to the active substance via the milk and/or maternal 
toxicity. No post weaning functions were affected with darunavir alone or in combination with 
ritonavir. In juvenile rats receiving darunavir up to days 23-26, increased mortality was observed with 
convulsions in some animals. Exposure in plasma, liver and brain was considerably higher than in 
adult rats after comparable doses in mg/kg between days 5 and 11 of age. After day 23 of life, the 
exposure was comparable to that in adult rats. The increased exposure was likely at least partly due to 
immaturity of the drug-metabolising enzymes in juvenile animals. No treatment related mortalities 
were noted in juvenile rats dosed at 1,000 mg/kg darunavir (single dose) on day 26 of age or at 
500 mg/kg (repeated dose) from day 23 to 50 of age, and the exposures and toxicity profile were 
comparable to those observed in adult rats. 
Due to uncertainties regarding the rate of development of the human blood brain barrier and liver 
enzymes, darunavir with low dose ritonavir should not be used in paediatric patients below 3 years of 
age. 
Darunavir was evaluated for carcinogenic potential by oral gavage administration to mice and rats up 
to 104 weeks. Daily doses of 150, 450 and 1,000 mg/kg were administered to mice and doses of 50, 
150 and 500 mg/kg were administered to rats. Dose-related increases in the incidences of 
hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas were observed in males and females of both species. Thyroid 
follicular cell adenomas were noted in male rats. Administration of darunavir did not cause a 
statistically significant increase in the incidence of any other benign or malignant neoplasm in mice or 
rats. The observed hepatocellular and thyroid tumours in rodents are considered to be of limited 
relevance to humans. Repeated administration of darunavir to rats caused hepatic microsomal enzyme 
induction and increased thyroid hormone elimination, which predispose rats, but not humans, to 
thyroid neoplasms. At the highest tested doses, the systemic exposures (based on AUC) to darunavir 
were between 0.4- and 0.7-fold (mice) and 0.7- and 1-fold (rats), relative to those observed in humans 
at the recommended therapeutic doses. 
After 2 years administration of darunavir at exposures at or below the human exposure, kidney 
changes were observed in mice (nephrosis) and rats (chronic progressive nephropathy). 
Darunavir was not mutagenic or genotoxic in a battery of in vitro and in vivo assays including bacterial 
reverse mutation (Ames), chromosomal aberration in human lymphocytes and in vivo micronucleus 
test in mice. 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Silica, colloidal anhydrous  
Cellulose microcrystalline  
Crospovidone 
Sodium starch glycolate  
Hypromellose  
Magnesium stearate 
Tablet film-coat 
Polyvinyl alcohol partially hydrolysed  
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Macrogol  
Talc 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Darunavir Mylan 400 mg film-coated tablets 
3 years 
In-use shelf life after first opening HDPE bottle: 100 days.  
Darunavir Mylan 800 mg film-coated tablets 
3 years 
In-use shelf life after first opening HDPE bottle: 90 days. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Darunavir Mylan 400 mg film-coated tablets 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions.  
Darunavir Mylan 800 mg film-coated tablets 
PVC/PE/PVDC-Al blister pack  
Do not store above 25°C. 
Cold form PVC/Al/OPA-Al blister pack 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
HDPE bottle pack 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Darunavir Mylan 400 mg film-coated tablets 
PVC/PE/PVDC-Al blister pack containing 30 and 60 tablets and 60x1 tablets. 
Cold form PVC/Al/OPA-Al blister pack containing 30 and 60 tablets and 60x1 tablets.  
HDPE bottle pack with a PP screw cap containing 60 and 100 tablets. 
Darunavir Mylan 800 mg film-coated tablets 
PVC/PE/PVDC-Al blister pack containing 30 tablets and 30x1 tablets. 
Cold form PVC/Al/OPA-Al blister pack containing 30 tablets and 30x1 tablets.  
HDPE bottle pack with a PP screw cap containing 30, 60, 90 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
No special requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Darunavir Mylan 400 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/16/1140/022  
EU/1/16/1140/023  
EU/1/16/1140/024  
EU/1/16/1140/025  
EU/1/16/1140/026  
EU/1/16/1140/027  
EU/1/16/1140/028  
EU/1/16/1140/029 
Darunavir Mylan 800 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/16/1140/039  
EU/1/16/1140/040  
EU/1/16/1140/041  
EU/1/16/1140/042  
EU/1/16/1140/043  
EU/1/16/1140/044  
EU/1/16/1140/045 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 04 January 2017  
Date of latest renewal: 16 September 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu . 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Mylan Hungary Kft 
Mylan utca 1, Komárom, 2900,  
Hungary 
McDermott Laboratories Limited trading as Gerard Laboratories  
35/36 Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Grange Road, Dublin 13  
Ireland 
Mylan Germany GmbH 
Zweigniederlassung Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe, Benzstrasse 1  
Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe 
Hessen, 61352  
Germany 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and 
interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and 
any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
• 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON (BLISTERS AND BOTTLES) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 75 mg film-coated tablets  
darunavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each film-coated tablet contains 75 mg of darunavir. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
Blister carton 
480 film-coated tablets 
480 x 1 film-coated tablets 
Bottle carton 
480 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
For oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
<Bottles Only> Once opened, use within 100 days 
[On carton only:] 
Open date:   
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/16/1140/001 
EU/1/16/1140/002  
EU/1/16/1140/003 
EU/1/16/1140/004 
EU/1/16/1140/005 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Darunavir Mylan 75 mg 
91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 75 mg film-coated tablets  
darunavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each film-coated tablet contains 75 mg of darunavir. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
480 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
For oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Once opened, use within 100 days 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/16/1140/005 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 75 mg film-coated tablets  
darunavir 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON (BLISTERS AND BOTTLES) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 150 mg film-coated tablets  
darunavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each film-coated tablet contains 150 mg of darunavir. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
Blister carton 
240 film-coated tablets 
240 x 1 film-coated tablets 
Bottle carton 
60 film-coated tablets 
240 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
For oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
<Bottles Only> Once opened, use within 100 days 
[On carton only:] 
Open date:   
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/16/1140/006  
EU/1/16/1140/007 
EU/1/16/1140/008  
EU/1/16/1140/009  
EU/1/16/1140/010 
EU/1/16/1140/011 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Darunavir Mylan 150 mg 
97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN 
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 150 mg film-coated tablets  
darunavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each film-coated tablet contains 150 mg of darunavir. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
60 film-coated tablets 
240 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
For oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Once opened, use within 100 days 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/16/1140/010  
EU/1/16/1140/011 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 150 mg film-coated tablets  
darunavir 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON (BLISTERS AND BOTTLES) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 300 mg film-coated tablets  
darunavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each film-coated tablet contains 300 mg of darunavir. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
Blister carton 
30 film-coated tablets 
60 film-coated tablets 
120 film-coated tablets 
120 x 1 film-coated tablets 
Bottle carton 
30 film-coated tablets 
120 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
For oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
<Bottles Only> Once opened, use within 100 days 
[On carton only:] 
Open date:   
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/16/1140/012  
EU/1/16/1140/013  
EU/1/16/1140/014  
EU/1/16/1140/015  
EU/1/16/1140/016  
EU/1/16/1140/017  
EU/1/16/1140/018  
EU/1/16/1140/019 
EU/1/16/1140/020 
EU/1/16/1140/021 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Darunavir Mylan 300 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN 
104 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 300 mg film-coated tablets  
darunavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each film-coated tablet contains 300 mg of darunavir. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
30 film-coated tablets 
120 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
For oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Once opened, use within 100 days 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/16/1140/020  
EU/1/16/1140/021 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 300 mg film-coated tablets  
darunavir 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON (BLISTERS AND BOTTLES) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 400 mg film-coated tablets  
darunavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each film-coated tablet contains 400 mg of darunavir. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
Blister carton 
30 film-coated tablets 
60 film-coated tablets 
60 x 1 film-coated tablets 
Bottle carton 
60 film-coated tablets 
100 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
For oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
108 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
<Bottles Only> Once opened, use within 100 days 
[On carton only:] 
Open date:   
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/16/1140/022  
EU/1/16/1140/023  
EU/1/16/1140/024  
EU/1/16/1140/025  
EU/1/16/1140/026 
EU/1/16/1140/027  
EU/1/16/1140/028 
EU/1/16/1140/029 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Darunavir Mylan 400 mg 
109 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN 
110 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 400 mg film-coated tablets  
darunavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each film-coated tablet contains 400 mg of darunavir. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
60 film-coated tablets 
100 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
For oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Once opened, use within 100 days 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
111 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/16/1140/028  
EU/1/16/1140/029 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
112 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 400 mg film-coated tablets  
darunavir 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
113 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON (BLISTERS AND BOTTLES) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 600 mg film-coated tablets  
darunavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each film-coated tablet contains 600 mg of darunavir. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
Blister carton 
30 film-coated tablets 
60 film-coated tablets 
60 x 1 film-coated tablets 
Bottle carton 
30 film-coated tablets 
60 film-coated tablets 
90 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
For oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
114 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
<Bottles Only> Once opened, use within 100 days 
[On carton only:] 
Open date:   
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/16/1140/030  
EU/1/16/1140/031  
EU/1/16/1140/032  
EU/1/16/1140/033  
EU/1/16/1140/034  
EU/1/16/1140/035  
EU/1/16/1140/036 
EU/1/16/1140/037 
EU/1/16/1140/038 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Darunavir Mylan 600 mg 
115 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN 
NN 
116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 600 mg film-coated tablets  
darunavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each film-coated tablet contains 600 mg of darunavir. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
30 film-coated tablets 
60 film-coated tablets 
90 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
For oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Once opened, use within 100 days 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
117 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/16/1140/036 
EU/1/16/1140/037  
EU/1/16/1140/038 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
118 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 600 mg film-coated tablets  
darunavir 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
119 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON (BLISTERS AND BOTTLES) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 800 mg film-coated tablets  
darunavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each film-coated tablet contains 800 mg of darunavir. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
Blister carton 
30 film-coated tablets 
30 x 1 film-coated tablets 
Bottle carton 
30 film-coated tablets 
60 film-coated tablets 
90 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
For oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
120 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
<Bottles Only> Once opened, use within 90 days 
[On carton only:] 
Open date:   
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
<PVC/PE/PVDC-Al blister pack only>  
Do not store above 25°C. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/16/1140/039  
EU/1/16/1140/040  
EU/1/16/1140/041 
EU/1/16/1140/042 
EU/1/16/1140/043 
EU/1/16/1140/044 
EU/1/16/1140/045 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Darunavir Mylan 800 mg 
121 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN 
122 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 800 mg film-coated tablets  
darunavir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each film-coated tablet contains 800 mg of darunavir. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
30 film-coated tablets 
60 film-coated tablets 
90 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
For oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Once opened, use within 90 days 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
123 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/16/1140/043  
EU/1/16/1140/044  
EU/1/16/1140/045 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Darunavir Mylan 800 mg film-coated tablets  
darunavir 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
126 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Darunavir Mylan 75 mg film-coated tablets 
darunavir 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Darunavir Mylan is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Darunavir Mylan 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Darunavir Mylan 
Possible side effects 
How to store Darunavir Mylan 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Darunavir Mylan is and what it is used for  
What is Darunavir Mylan? 
Darunavir Mylan contains the active substance darunavir. Darunavir is an antiretroviral medicine used 
in the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection. It belongs to a group of 
medicines called protease inhibitors. Darunavir works by reducing the amount of HIV in your body. 
This will improve your immune system and reduces the risk of developing illnesses linked to HIV 
infection. 
What it is used for? 
Darunavir is used to treat adults and children of 3 years of age and above, and at least 15 kilogram 
body weight who are infected by HIV and who have already used other antiretroviral medicines. 
Darunavir must be taken in combination with a low dose of ritonavir and other anti-HIV medicines. 
Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of medicines is best for you. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Darunavir Mylan  
Do not take Darunavir Mylan 
- 
if you are allergic to darunavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 
6) or to ritonavir. 
if you have severe liver problems. Ask your doctor if you are unsure about the severity of your 
liver disease. Some additional tests might be necessary. 
- 
Do not combine Darunavir Mylan with any of the following medicines 
If you are taking any of these, ask your doctor about switching to another medicine. 
Medicine 
Avanafil 
Astemizole or terfenadine 
Triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) midazolam 
Purpose of the medicine 
to treat erectile dysfunction 
to treat allergy symptoms 
to help you sleep and/or relieve anxiety 
127 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicine 
Cisapride 
Colchicine (if you have kidney and/or liver 
problems) 
Lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapine or sertindole 
Ergot alkaloids like ergotamine, 
dihydroergotamine, ergometrine and 
methylergonovine 
Amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine, 
quinidine, ranolazine 
Lovastatin simvastatin and lomitapide 
Rifampicin 
The combination product lopinavir/ritonavir 
Elbasvir/grazoprevir 
Alfuzosin 
Sildenafil 
Ticagrelor 
Naloxegol 
Dapoxetine 
Domperidone 
Purpose of the medicine 
to treat some stomach conditions 
to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever 
to treat psychiatric conditions 
to treat migraine headaches 
to treat certain heart disorders e.g. abnormal heart 
beat 
to lower cholesterol levels 
to treat some infections such as tuberculosis 
this anti-HIV medicine belongs to the same class as 
darunavir 
to treat hepatitis C infection 
to treat enlarged prostate 
to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation 
to help stop the clumping of platelets in the 
treatment of patients with a history of a heart attack 
to treat opioid induced constipation 
to treat premature ejaculation 
to treat nausea and vomiting 
Do not combine darunavir with products that contain St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Darunavir Mylan. 
Darunavir is not a cure for HIV infection.  
People taking darunavir may still develop infections or other illnesses associated with HIV infection. 
You must keep in regular contact with your doctor. 
People taking darunavir may develop a skin rash. Infrequently a rash may become severe or 
potentially life-threatening. Please contact your doctor whenever you develop a rash. 
In patients taking darunavir and raltegravir (for HIV infection), rashes (generally mild or moderate) 
may occur more frequently than in patients taking either medicine separately. 
Tell your doctor about your situation BEFORE and DURING your treatment 
Make sure that you check the following points and tell your doctor if any of these apply to you. 
- 
Tell your doctor if you have had problems with your liver before, including hepatitis B or C 
infection. Your doctor may evaluate how severe your liver disease is before deciding if you can 
take darunavir. 
Tell your doctor if you have diabetes. Darunavir might increase sugar levels in the blood. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any symptoms of infection (for example enlarged 
lymph nodes and fever). In some patients with advanced HIV infection and a history of 
opportunistic infection, signs and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may 
occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an 
improvement in the body’s immune response, enabling the body to fight infections that may 
have been present with no obvious symptoms. 
In addition to the opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when 
the immune system attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines 
for the treatment of your HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after 
the start of treatment. If you notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as 
- 
- 
- 
128 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
muscle weakness, weakness beginning in the hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of 
the body, palpitations, tremor or hyperactivity, please inform your doctor immediately to seek 
necessary treatment. 
Tell your doctor if you have haemophilia. Darunavir might increase the risk of bleeding. 
Tell your doctor if you are allergic to sulphonamides (e.g. used to treat certain infections). 
Tell your doctor if you notice any musculoskeletal problems. Some patients taking 
combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called osteonecrosis (death of 
bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of combination antiretroviral 
therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe immunosuppression, higher body mass 
index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for developing this disease. Signs of 
osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches and pains (especially of the hip, knee and shoulder) and 
difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please inform your doctor. 
Elderly 
Darunavir has only been used in limited numbers of patients 65 years or older. If you belong to this 
age group, please discuss with your doctor if you can use Darunavir Mylan. 
Children 
Darunavir is not for use in children younger than 3 years of age or weighing less than 15 kilograms. 
Other medicines and Darunavir Mylan 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines. 
There are some medicines that you must not combine with darunavir. These are mentioned above 
under the heading ‘Do not combine Darunavir Mylan with any of the following medicines:’ 
In most cases, darunavir can be combined with anti-HIV medicines belonging to another class [e.g. 
NRTIs (nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors), NNRTIs (non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors), CCR5 antagonists and FIs (fusion inhibitors)]. Darunavir with ritonavir has not been tested 
with all PIs (protease inhibitors) and must not be used with other HIV PIs. In some cases dosage of 
other medicines might need to be changed. Therefore always tell your doctor if you take other anti- 
HIV medicines and follow your doctor’s instruction carefully on which medicines can be combined. 
The effects of darunavir might be reduced if you take any of the following products. Tell your doctor 
if you take: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Phenobarbital, phenytoin (to prevent seizures) 
Dexamethasone (corticosteroid) 
Efavirenz (HIV infection) 
Rifapentine, rifabutin (medicines to treat some infections such as tuberculosis) 
Saquinavir (HIV infection). 
The effects of other medicines might be influenced if you take darunavir and your doctor might want 
to do some additional blood tests. Tell your doctor if you take: 
- 
Amlodipine, diltiazem, disopyramide, carvedilol, felodipine, flecainide, lidocaine, metoprolol, 
mexiletine, nifedipine, nicardipine, propafenone, timolol, verapamil (for heart disease) as the 
therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines may be increased. 
Apixaban, dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel (to reduce 
clotting of the blood) as their therapeutic effect or side effects may be altered. 
Oestrogen-based hormonal contraceptives and hormonal replacement therapy. Darunavir might 
reduce its effectiveness. When used for birth control, alternative methods of non-hormonal 
contraception are recommended. 
Ethinylestradiol/drospirenone. Darunavir might increase the risk for elevated potassium levels 
by drospirenone. 
Atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin (to lower cholesterol levels). The risk of muscle damage 
might be increased. Your doctor will evaluate which cholesterol lowering regimen is best for 
your specific situation. 
Clarithromycin (antibiotic) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
129 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Ciclosporin, everolimus, tacrolimus, sirolimus (for dampening down your immune system) as the 
therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines might be increased.  
Corticosteroids including betamethasone, budesonide, fluticasone, mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone. These medicines are used to treat allergies, asthma, inflammatory bowel 
diseases, inflammatory conditions of the skin, eyes, joints and muscles and other inflammatory 
conditions. These medicines are generally taken orally, inhaled, injected or applied to the skin. 
If alternatives cannot be used, its use should only take place after medical evaluation and under 
close monitoring by your doctor for corticosteroid side effects. 
Buprenorphine/naloxone (medicines to treat opioid dependence) 
Salmeterol (medicine to treat asthma) 
Artemether/lumefantrine (a combination medicine to treat malaria) 
Dasatinib, everolimus, irinotecan, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine (to treat cancer) 
Sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil (for erectile dysfunction or to treat a heart and lung disorder 
called pulmonary arterial hypertension) 
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir (to treat hepatitis C infection) 
Fentanyl, oxycodone, tramadol (to treat pain) 
Fesoterodine, solifenacin (to treat urologic disorders). 
Your doctor might want to do some additional blood tests and the dosage of other medicines 
might need to be changed since either their own or darunavir’s therapeutic effect or side effects 
may be influenced when combined. 
Tell your doctor if you take: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, warfarin (to reduce clotting of the blood) 
Alfentanil (injectable strong and short-acting painkiller that is used for surgical procedures) 
Digoxin (to treat certain heart disorders) 
Clarithromycin (antibiotic) 
Itraconazole, isavuconazole, fluconazole, posaconazole, clotrimazole (to treat fungal 
infections). Voriconazole should only be taken after medical evaluation. 
Rifabutin (against bacterial infections) 
Sildenafil, vardenafil, tadalafil (for erectile dysfunction or high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation) 
Amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline, paroxetine, sertraline, trazodone (to treat 
depression and anxiety) 
Maraviroc (to treat HIV infection) 
Methadone (to treat opiate dependence) 
Carbamazepine, clonazepam (to prevent seizures or to treat certain types of nerve pain) 
Colchicine (to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever) 
Bosentan (to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary circulation) 
Buspirone, clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam, flurazepam, midazolam when used as injection, 
zolpidem (sedative agents) 
Perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine (to treat psychiatric conditions). 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
This is not a complete list of medicines. Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines that you are 
taking. 
Darunavir Mylan with food and drink 
See section 3 ‘How to take Darunavir Mylan’. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor immediately if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant. Pregnant women 
must not take darunavir with ritonavir unless specifically directed by the doctor. Pregnant women 
should not take darunavir with cobicistat. 
Because of the potential for side effects in breast-fed infants, women should not breast-feed if they are 
receiving Darunavir Mylan.  
130 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed on 
to the baby in breast milk. If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should discuss 
it with your doctor as soon as possible. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not operate machines or drive if you feel dizzy after taking darunavir. 
Darunavir Mylan contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium- 
free’. 
3. 
How to take Darunavir Mylan 
Always use this medicine exactly as described in this leaflet or as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has 
told you. Check with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
Even if you feel better, do not stop taking Darunavir Mylan and ritonavir without talking to your 
doctor. 
After therapy has been initiated, the dose or dosage form must not be changed or therapy must not be 
stopped without instruction of the doctor. 
Dose for children of 3 years of age and above, weighing at least 15 kilograms who have not taken 
antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this) 
The doctor will work out the right once daily dose based on the weight of the child (see table below). 
This dose must not exceed the recommended adult dose, which is 800 milligram darunavir together 
with 100 milligram ritonavir once a day. 
The doctor will inform you on how much Darunavir Mylan tablets and how much ritonavir (capsules, 
tablets or solution) the child must take. 
Weight 
One darunavir dose is 
One ritonavira dose is 
between 15 and 30 kilograms 
between 30 and 40 kilograms 
more than 40 kilograms 
a ritonavir oral solution: 80 milligram per milliliter 
600 milligram 
675 milligram 
800 milligram 
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
Dose for children of 3 years of age and above, weighing at least 15 kilograms who have taken 
antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this) 
The doctor will work out the right dose based on the weight of the child (see table below). The doctor 
will determine if once daily dosing or twice daily dosing is appropriate for the child. This dose must 
not exceed the recommended adult dose, which is 600 milligram darunavir together with 
100 milligram ritonavir two times per day or 800 milligram darunavir together with 100 milligram 
ritonavir once a day. 
The doctor will inform you on how many Darunavir Mylan tablets and how much ritonavir (capsules, 
tablets or solution) the child must take. Tablets of other strengths are available and your doctor may 
have prescribed a certain combination of tablets to construct the appropriate dosing regimen. 
Other forms of this medicine may be more suitable for children: ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
Twice daily dosing 
Weight 
between 15 and 30 kilograms 
between 30 and 40 kilograms 
One dose is 
375 milligram darunavir + 50 milligram ritonavir 
twice a day 
450 milligram darunavir + 60 milligram ritonavir 
twice a day 
131 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
more than 40 kilograms* 
Weight 
One dose is 
600 milligram darunavir + 100 milligram 
ritonavir twice a day 
*  For children aged 12 or more and weighing at least 40 kilograms, your child’s doctor will determine if Darunavir Mylan 
800 milligram once daily dosing may be used. This cannot be administered with these 75 milligram tablets. Other 
strengths of Darunavir Mylan are available. 
Once daily dosing 
Weight 
One darunavir dose is 
between 15 and 30 kilograms 
between 30 and 40 kilograms 
more than 40 kilograms 
600 milligram 
675 milligram 
800 milligram 
One ritonavira dose is 
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
Instructions for children 
- 
The child must take darunavir always together with ritonavir. Darunavir cannot work properly 
without ritonavir. 
The child must take the appropriate doses of darunavir and ritonavir two times per day or once a 
day. If prescribed darunavir twice daily the child must take one dose in the morning, and one 
dose in the evening. Your child’s doctor will determine the appropriate dosing regimen for your 
child. 
The child must take darunavir with food. Darunavir cannot work properly without food. The 
type of food is not important. 
The child must swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk. 
Dose for adults who have not taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine 
this) 
You will require a different dose of darunavir which cannot be administered with these 75 milligram 
tablets. Other strengths of Darunavir Mylan are available. 
Dose for adults who have taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine this) 
The dose is either: 
- 
600 milligram darunavir (2 tablets containing 300 milligram of darunavir or 1 tablet containing 
600 milligram of darunavir) together with 100 milligram ritonavir twice daily. 
OR 
800 milligram darunavir (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of darunavir or 1 tablet containing 
800 milligram of darunavir) together with 100 milligram ritonavir once daily. Darunavir Mylan 
400 milligram and 800 milligram tablets are only to be used to construct the once daily 
800 milligram regimen. 
- 
Please discuss with your doctor which dose is right for you. 
Instructions for adults 
- 
Take darunavir always together with ritonavir. Darunavir cannot work properly without 
ritonavir. 
In the morning, take 600 milligram darunavir together with 100 milligram ritonavir. 
In the evening, take 600 milligram darunavir together with 100 milligram ritonavir. 
Take darunavir with food. Darunavir cannot work properly without food. The type of food is not 
important. 
Swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk. 
Darunavir Mylan 75 milligram and 150 milligram tablets have been developed for use in 
children, but can also be used in adults in some cases. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If you take more Darunavir Mylan than you should 
Contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately. 
132 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you forget to take Darunavir Mylan 
If you notice within 6 hours, you must take the tablets immediately. Always take with ritonavir and 
food. If you notice after 6 hours, then skip the intake and take the next doses as usual. Do not take a 
double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you vomit after taking Darunavir Mylan and ritonavir 
If you vomit within 4 hours of taking the medicine, another dose of Darunavir Mylan and ritonavir 
should be taken with food as soon as possible. If you vomit more than 4 hours after taking the 
medicine, then you do not need to take another dose of Darunavir Mylan and ritonavir until the next 
regularly scheduled time. 
Contact your doctor if you are uncertain about what to do if you miss a dose or vomit. 
Do not stop taking Darunavir Mylan without talking to your doctor first 
Anti-HIV medicines may make you feel better. Even when you feel better, do not stop taking 
darunavir. Talk to your doctor first. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes. 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor if you develop any of the following side effects 
Liver problems that may occasionally be severe have been reported. Your doctor should do blood tests 
before you start darunavir. If you have chronic hepatitis B or C infection, your doctor should check 
your blood tests more often because you have an increased chance of developing liver problems. Talk 
to your doctor about the signs and symptoms of liver problems. These may include yellowing of your 
skin or whites of your eyes, dark (tea coloured) urine, pale coloured stools (bowel movements), 
nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, or pain, aching, or pain and discomfort on your right side below 
your ribs. 
Skin rash (more often when used in combination with raltegravir), itching. The rash is usually mild to 
moderate. A skin rash might also be a symptom of a rare severe situation. It is therefore important to 
talk to your doctor if you develop a rash. Your doctor will advise you how to deal with your symptoms 
or whether darunavir must be stopped. 
Other severe side effects were diabetes (common), and inflammation of the pancreas (uncommon). 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
diarrhoea. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain or distension, dyspepsia, flatulence 
headache, tiredness, dizziness, drowsiness, numbness, tingling or pain in hands or feet, loss of 
strength, difficulty falling asleep. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
- 
chest pain, changes in electrocardiogram, rapid heart beating 
decreased or abnormal skin sensitivity, pins and needles, attention disturbance, loss of memory, 
problems with your balance 
difficulty breathing, cough, nosebleed, throat irritation 
inflammation of the stomach or mouth, heartburn, retching, dry mouth, discomfort of the 
abdomen, constipation, belching 
- 
- 
133 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
kidney failure, kidney stones, difficult discharge of urine, frequent or excessive passage of 
urine, sometimes at night 
urticaria, severe swelling of the skin and other tissues (most often the lips or the eyes), eczema, 
excessive sweating, night sweats, hair loss, acne, scaly skin, colouration of nails 
muscle pain, muscle cramps or weakness, pain in extremity, osteoporosis 
slowing down of the thyroid gland function. This can be seen in a blood test. 
high blood pressure, flushing 
red or dry eyes 
fever, swelling of lower limbs due to fluids, malaise, irritability, pain 
symptoms of infection, herpes simplex 
erectile dysfunction, enlargement of breasts 
sleeping problems, sleepiness, depression, anxiety, abnormal dreams, decrease in sexual drive 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
- 
a reaction called DRESS [severe rash, which may be accompanied by fever, fatigue, swelling of 
the face or lymph glands, increase of eosinophils (type of white blood cells), effects on liver, 
kidney or lung] 
heart attack, slow heart beating, palpitations 
visual disturbance 
chills, feeling abnormal 
a feeling of confusion or disorientation, altered mood, restlessness 
fainting, epileptic fits, changes or loss of taste 
mouth sores, vomiting blood, inflammation of the lips, dry lips, coated tongue 
running nose 
skin lesions, dry skin 
stiffness of muscles or joints, joint pain with or without inflammation 
changes in some values of your blood cells or chemistry. These can be seen in the results of 
blood and/or urine tests. Your doctor will explain these to you. Examples are: increase in some 
white blood cells 
darunavir crystals in the kidney causing kidney disease. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Some side effects are typical for anti-HIV medicines in the same family as darunavir. These are: 
muscle pain, tenderness or weakness. On rare occasions, these muscle disorders have been 
- 
serious. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Darunavir Mylan 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton, blister and on the bottle 
after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
For bottles: Once opened, use within 100 days. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away any medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information  
What Darunavir Mylan contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is darunavir. Each tablet contains 75 milligrams of darunavir. 
The other ingredients are colloidal anhydrous silica, cellulose microcrystalline, crospovidone, 
sodium starch glycolate, hypromellose, magnesium stearate. The film-coating contains 
polyvinyl alcohol partially hydrolysed, titanium dioxide (E171), macrogol and talc. 
What Darunavir Mylan looks like and contents of the pack 
Darunavir Mylan 75 mg film-coated tablets are white to off-white, oval shaped with two curved sides, 
marked with M on one side and DV1 on the other side. 
Darunavir Mylan 75 mg film-coated tablets are available in blister packs containing 480 tablets and in 
plastic bottles containing 480 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15, 
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Mylan Hungary Kft 
H-2900 Komárom, Mylan utca 1  
Hungary 
McDermott Laboratories Limited trading as Gerard Laboratories  
35/36 Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Grange Road, Dublin 13  
Ireland 
Mylan Germany GmbH 
Zweigniederlassung Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe, Benzstrasse 1  
Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe 
Hessen, 61352  
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Mylan bvba/sprl 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
Lietuva 
Mylan Healthcare UAB 
Tel: +370 5 205 1288 
България 
Майлан ЕООД 
Тел: +359 2 44 55 400 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Mylan bvba/sprl 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
(Belgique/Belgien) 
Česká republika 
Viatris CZ s.r.o.  
Tel: + 420 222 004 400 
Magyarország 
Mylan EPD Kft. 
Tel.: + 36 1 465 2100 
135 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Danmark 
Viatris ApS 
Tlf: +45 28 11 69 32 
Deutschland 
Viatris Healthcare GmbH 
Tel: +49 800 0700 800 
Malta 
V.J. Salomone Pharma Ltd  
Tel: + 356 21 22 01 74 
Nederland 
Mylan BV 
Tel: +31 (0)20 426 3300 
Eesti 
BGP Products Switzerland GmbH Eesti 
filiaal 
Tel: + 372 6363 052 
Norge 
Viatris AS 
Tlf: + 47 66 75 33 00 
Ελλάδα 
Generics Pharma Hellas ΕΠΕ  
Τηλ: +30 210 993 6410 
Österreich 
Arcana Arzneimittel GmbH  
Tel: +43 1 416 2418 
España 
Viatris Pharmaceuticals, S.L.U. 
Tel: + 34 900 102 712 
Polska 
Mylan Healthcare Sp. z o.o.  
Tel.: + 48 22 546 64 00 
France 
Viatris Santé  
Tél: +33 4 37 25 75 00 
Hrvatska 
Viatris Hrvatska d.o.o.  
Tel: +385 1 23 50 599 
Ireland 
Mylan Ireland Limited  
Tel: +353 1 8711600 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Mylan Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: + 39 02 612 46921 
Portugal 
Mylan, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 214 127 200 
România 
BGP Products SRL  
Tel: +40 372 579 000 
Slovenija 
Viatris d.o.o.  
Tel: + 386 1 23 63 180 
Slovenská republika 
Viatris Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 32 199 100 
Suomi/Finland 
Viatris Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 20 720 9555 
Κύπρος 
Varnavas Hadjipanayis Ltd 
Τηλ: + 357 2220 7700 
Sverige 
Viatris AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 630 19 00 
Latvija 
Mylan Healthcare SIA  
Tel: +371 676 055 80 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Mylan IRE Healthcare Limited  
Tel: +353 18711600 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}. 
136 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
137 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Darunavir Mylan 150 mg film-coated tablets 
darunavir 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Darunavir Mylan is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Darunavir Mylan 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Darunavir Mylan 
Possible side effects 
How to store Darunavir Mylan 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Darunavir Mylan is and what it is used for  
What is Darunavir Mylan? 
Darunavir Mylan contains the active substance darunavir. Darunavir is an antiretroviral medicine used 
in the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection. It belongs to a group of 
medicines called protease inhibitors. Darunavir works by reducing the amount of HIV in your body. 
This will improve your immune system and reduces the risk of developing illnesses linked to HIV 
infection. 
What it is used for? 
Darunavir is used to treat adults and children of 3 years of age and above, and at least 15 kilogram 
body weight who are infected by HIV and who have already used other antiretroviral medicines. 
Darunavir must be taken in combination with a low dose of ritonavir and other anti-HIV medicines. 
Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of medicines is best for you. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Darunavir Mylan  
Do not take Darunavir Mylan 
- 
if you are allergic to darunavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 
6) or to ritonavir. 
if you have severe liver problems. Ask your doctor if you are unsure about the severity of your 
liver disease. Some additional tests might be necessary. 
- 
Do not combine Darunavir Mylan with any of the following medicines 
If you are taking any of these, ask your doctor about switching to another medicine. 
Medicine 
Avanafil 
Astemizole or terfenadine 
Triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) midazolam 
Cisapride 
Purpose of the medicine 
to treat erectile dysfunction 
to treat allergy symptoms 
to help you sleep and/or relieve anxiety 
to treat some stomach conditions 
138 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicine 
Colchicine (if you have kidney and/or liver 
problems) 
Lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapineor sertindole 
Ergot alkaloids like ergotamine, 
dihydroergotamine, ergometrine and 
methylergonovine 
Amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine, 
quinidine, ranolazine 
Lovastatin, simvastatin and lomitapide 
Rifampicin 
The combination product lopinavir/ritonavir 
Elbasvir/grazoprevir 
Alfuzosin 
Sildenafil 
Ticagrelor 
Naloxegol 
Dapoxetine 
Domperidone 
Purpose of the medicine 
to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever 
to treat psychiatric conditions 
to treat migraine headaches 
to treat certain heart disorders e.g. abnormal heart 
beat 
to lower cholesterol levels 
to treat some infections such as tuberculosis 
this anti-HIV medicine belongs to the same class as 
darunavir 
to treat hepatitis C infection 
to treat enlarged prostate 
to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation 
to help stop the clumping of platelets in the 
treatment of patients with a history of a heart attack 
to treat opioid induced constipation 
to treat premature ejaculation 
to treat nausea and vomiting 
Do not combine darunavir with products that contain St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Darunavir Mylan. 
Darunavir is not a cure for HIV infection.  
People taking darunavir may still develop infections or other illnesses associated with HIV infection. 
You must keep in regular contact with your doctor. 
People taking darunavir may develop a skin rash. Infrequently a rash may become severe or 
potentially life-threatening. Please contact your doctor whenever you develop a rash. 
In patients taking darunavir and raltegravir (for HIV infection), rashes (generally mild or moderate) 
may occur more frequently than in patients taking either medicine separately. 
Tell your doctor about your situation BEFORE and DURING your treatment 
Make sure that you check the following points and tell your doctor if any of these apply to you. 
- 
Tell your doctor if you have had problems with your liver before, including hepatitis B or C 
infection. Your doctor may evaluate how severe your liver disease is before deciding if you can 
take darunavir. 
Tell your doctor if you have diabetes. Darunavir might increase sugar levels in the blood. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any symptoms of infection (for example enlarged 
lymph nodes and fever). In some patients with advanced HIV infection and a history of 
opportunistic infection, signs and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may 
occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an 
improvement in the body’s immune response, enabling the body to fight infections that may 
have been present with no obvious symptoms. 
In addition to the opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when 
the immune system attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines 
for the treatment of your HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after 
the start of treatment. If you notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as 
muscle weakness, weakness beginning in the hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of 
- 
- 
- 
139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
the body, palpitations, tremor or hyperactivity, please inform your doctor immediately to seek 
necessary treatment. 
Tell your doctor if you have haemophilia. Darunavir might increase the risk of bleeding. 
Tell your doctor if you are allergic to sulphonamides (e.g. used to treat certain infections). 
Tell your doctor if you notice any musculoskeletal problems. Some patients taking 
combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called osteonecrosis (death of 
bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of combination antiretroviral 
therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe immunosuppression, higher body mass 
index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for developing this disease. Signs of 
osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches and pains (especially of the hip, knee and shoulder) and 
difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please inform your doctor. 
Elderly 
Darunavir has only been used in limited numbers of patients 65 years or older. If you belong to this 
age group, please discuss with your doctor if you can use Darunavir Mylan. 
Children 
Darunavir is not for use in children younger than 3 years of age or weighing less than 15 kilograms. 
Other medicines and Darunavir Mylan 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines. 
There are some medicines that you must not combine with darunavir. These are mentioned above 
under the heading ‘Do not combine Darunavir Mylan with any of the following medicines:’ 
In most cases, darunavir can be combined with anti-HIV medicines belonging to another class [e.g. 
NRTIs (nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors), NNRTIs (non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors), CCR5 antagonists and FIs (fusion inhibitors)]. Darunavir with ritonavir has not been tested 
with all PIs (protease inhibitors) and must not be used with other HIV PIs. In some cases dosage of 
other medicines might need to be changed. Therefore always tell your doctor if you take other anti- 
HIV medicines and follow your doctor’s instruction carefully on which medicines can be combined. 
The effects of darunavir might be reduced if you take any of the following products. Tell your doctor 
if you take: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Phenobarbital, phenytoin (to prevent seizures) 
Dexamethasone (corticosteroid) 
Efavirenz (HIV infection) 
Rifapentine, rifabutin (medicines to treat some infections such as tuberculosis) 
Saquinavir (HIV infection). 
The effects of other medicines might be influenced if you take darunavir and your doctor might want 
to do some additional blood tests. Tell your doctor if you take: 
- 
Amlodipine, diltiazem, disopyramide, carvedilol, felodipine, flecainide, lidocaine, metoprolol, 
mexiletine, nifedipine, nicardipine, propafenone, timolol, verapamil (for heart disease) as the 
therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines may be increased. 
Apixaban dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel (to reduce 
clotting of the blood) as their therapeutic effect or side effects may be altered. 
Oestrogen-based hormonal contraceptives and hormonal replacement therapy. Darunavir might 
reduce its effectiveness. When used for birth control, alternative methods of non-hormonal 
contraception are recommended. 
Ethinylestradiol/drospirenone. Darunavir might increase the risk for elevated potassium levels 
by drospirenone. 
Atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin (to lower cholesterol levels). The risk of muscle damage 
might be increased. Your doctor will evaluate which cholesterol lowering regimen is best for 
your specific situation. 
Clarithromycin (antibiotic) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
140 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Ciclosporin, everolimus, tacrolimus, sirolimus (for dampening down your immune system) as the 
therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines might be increased.  
Corticosteroids including betamethasone, budesonide, fluticasone, mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone. These medicines are used to treat allergies, asthma, inflammatory bowel 
diseases, inflammatory conditions of the skin, eyes, joints and muscles and other inflammatory 
conditions. These medicines are generally taken orally, inhaled, injected or applied to the skin. 
If alternatives cannot be used, its use should only take place after medical evaluation and under 
close monitoring by your doctor for corticosteroid side effects. 
Buprenorphine/naloxone (medicines to treat opioide dependence) 
Salmeterol (medicine to treat asthma) 
Artemether/lumefantrine (a combination medicine to treat malaria) 
Dasatinib, everolimus, irinotecan, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine (to treat cancer) 
Sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil (for erectile dysfunction or to treat a heart and lung disorder 
called pulmonary arterial hypertension) 
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir (to treat hepatitis C infection) 
Fentanyl, oxycodone, tramadol (to treat pain) 
Fesoterodine, solifenacin (to treat urologic disorders). 
Your doctor might want to do some additional blood tests and the dosage of other medicines might 
need to be changed since either their own or darunavir’s therapeutic effect or side effects may be 
influenced when combined. 
Tell your doctor if you take: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, warfarin (to reduce clotting of the blood) 
Alfentanil (injectable strong and short-acting painkiller that is used for surgical procedures) 
Digoxin (to treat certain heart disorders) 
Clarithromycin (antibiotic) 
Itraconazole, isavuconazole, fluconazole, posaconazole, clotrimazole (to treat fungal 
infections). Voriconazole should only be taken after medical evaluation. 
Rifabutin (against bacterial infections) 
Sildenafil, vardenafil, tadalafil (for erectile dysfunction or high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation) 
Amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline, paroxetine, sertraline, trazodone (to treat 
depression and anxiety) 
Maraviroc (to treat HIV infection) 
Methadone (to treat opiate dependence) 
Carbamazepine, clonazepam (to prevent seizures or to treat certain types of nerve pain) 
Colchicine (to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever) 
Bosentan (to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary circulation) 
Buspirone, clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam, flurazepam, midazolam when used as injection, 
zolpidem (sedative agents) 
Perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine (to treat psychiatric conditions). 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
This is not a complete list of medicines. Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines that you are 
taking. 
Darunavir Mylan with food and drink 
See section 3 ‘How to take Darunavir Mylan. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor immediately if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant. Pregnant women 
must not take darunavir with ritonavir unless specifically directed by the doctor. Pregnant women 
should not take darunavir with cobicistat. 
Because of the potential for side effects in breast-fed infants, women should not breast-feed if they are 
receiving Darunavir Mylan. 
141 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infections can be passed 
on to the baby in breast milk. If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should 
discuss it with your doctor as soon as possible. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not operate machines or drive if you feel dizzy after taking darunavir. 
Darunavir Mylan contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium- 
free’. 
3. 
How to take Darunavir Mylan 
Always use this medicine exactly as described in this leaflet or as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has 
told you. Check with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
Even if you feel better, do not stop taking Darunavir Mylan and ritonavir without talking to your 
doctor. 
After therapy has been initiated, the dose or dosage form must not be changed or therapy must not be 
stopped without instruction of the doctor. 
Dose for children of 3 years of age and above, weighing at least 15 kilograms who have not taken 
antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this) 
The doctor will work out the right once daily dose based on the weight of the child (see table below). 
This dose must not exceed the recommended adult dose, which is 800 milligram darunavir together 
with 100 milligram ritonavir once a day. 
The doctor will inform you on how much Darunavir Mylan tablets and how much ritonavir (capsules, 
tablets or solution) the child must take. 
Weight 
between 15 and 30 kilograms 
between 30 and 40 kilograms 
more than 40 kilograms 
One darunavir dose is 
600 milligram 
675 milligram 
800 milligram 
a ritonavir oral solution: 80 milligram per milliliter 
One ritonavira dose is 
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
Dose for children of 3 years of age and above, weighing at least 15 kilograms who have taken 
antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this) 
The doctor will work out the right dose based on the weight of the child (see table below). The doctor 
will determine if once daily dosing or twice daily dosing is appropriate for the child. This dose must 
not exceed the recommended adult dose, which is 600 milligram darunavir together with 
100 milligram ritonavir two times per day or 800 milligram darunavir together with 100 milligram 
ritonavir once a day. 
The doctor will inform you on how many Darunavir Mylan tablets and how much ritonavir (capsules, 
tablets or solution) the child must take. Tablets of other strengths are available and your doctor may 
have prescribed a certain combination of tablets to construct the appropriate dosing regimen. 
Other forms of this medicine may be more suitable for children: ask your doctor or pharmacist.  
Twice daily dosing 
Weight 
between 15 and 30 kilograms 
between 30 and 40 kilograms 
One dose is 
375 milligram darunavir + 50 milligram ritonavir 
twice a day 
450 milligram darunavir + 60 milligram ritonavir 
twice a day 
142 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
more than 40 kilograms* 
Weight 
One dose is 
600 milligram darunavir + 100 milligram ritonavir 
twice a day 
*  For children aged 12 or more and weighing at least 40 kilograms, your child’s doctor will determine if Darunavir Mylan 
800 milligram once daily dosing may be used. This cannot be administered with these 150 milligram tablets. Other 
strengths of Darunavir Mylan are available. 
Once daily dosing 
Weight 
between 15 and 30 kilograms 
between 30 and 40 kilograms 
more than 40 kilograms 
One darunavir dose is 
600 milligram 
675 milligram 
800 milligram 
a ritonavir oral solution: 80 milligram per milliliter 
One ritonavira dose is 
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
Instructions for children 
- 
The child must take darunavir always together with ritonavir. Darunavir cannot work properly 
without ritonavir. 
The child must take the appropriate doses of darunavir and ritonavir two times per day or once a 
day. If prescribed darunavir twice daily the child must take one dose in the morning, and one 
dose in the evening. Your child’s doctor will determine the appropriate dosing regimen for your 
child. 
The child must take darunavir with food. Darunavir cannot work properly without food. The 
type of food is not important. 
The child must swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk. 
Dose for adults who have not taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine 
this) 
You will require a different dose of darunavir which cannot be administered with these 150 milligram 
tablets. Other strengths of Darunavir Mylan are available. 
Dose for adults who have taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine this) 
The dose is either: 
- 
600 milligram darunavir (2 tablets containing 300 milligram of darunavir or 1 tablet containing 
600 milligram of darunavir) together with 100 milligram ritonavir twice daily. 
OR 
800 milligram darunavir (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of darunavir or 1 tablet containing 
800 milligram of darunavir) together with 100 milligram ritonavir once daily. Darunavir Mylan 
400 milligram and 800 milligram tablets are only to be used to construct the once daily 
800 milligram regimen. 
- 
Please discuss with your doctor which dose is right for you. 
Instructions for adults 
- 
Take darunavir always together with ritonavir. Darunavir cannot work properly without 
ritonavir. 
In the morning, take 600 milligram darunavir together with 100 milligram ritonavir. 
In the evening, take 600 milligram darunavir together with 100 milligram ritonavir. 
Take darunavir with food. Darunavir cannot work properly without food. The type of food is not 
important. 
Swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk. 
Darunavir Mylan 75 milligram and 150 milligram tablets have been developed for use in 
children, but can also be used in adults in some cases. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If you take more Darunavir Mylan than you should 
Contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately. 
143 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you forget to take Darunavir Mylan 
If you notice within 6 hours, you must take the tablets immediately. Always take with ritonavir and 
food. If you notice after 6 hours, then skip the intake and take the next doses as usual. Do not take a 
double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you vomit after taking Darunavir Mylan and ritonavir 
If you vomit within 4 hours of taking the medicine, another dose of Darunavir Mylan and ritonavir 
should be taken with food as soon as possible. If you vomit more than 4 hours after taking the 
medicine, then you do not need to take another dose of Darunavir Mylan and ritonavir until the next 
regularly scheduled time. 
Contact your doctor if you are uncertain about what to do if you miss a dose or vomit. 
Do not stop taking Darunavir Mylan without talking to your doctor first 
Anti-HIV medicines make you feel better. Even when you feel better, do not stop taking darunavir. 
Talk to your doctor first. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes. 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor if you develop any of the following side effects 
Liver problems that may occasionally be severe have been reported. Your doctor should do blood tests 
before you start darunavir. If you have chronic hepatitis B or C infection, your doctor should check 
your blood tests more often because you have an increased chance of developing liver problems. Talk 
to your doctor about the signs and symptoms of liver problems. These may include yellowing of your 
skin or whites of your eyes, dark (tea coloured) urine, pale coloured stools (bowel movements), 
nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, or pain, aching, or pain and discomfort on your right side below 
your ribs. 
Skin rash (more often when used in combination with raltegravir), itching. The rash is usually mild to 
moderate. A skin rash might also be a symptom of a rare severe situation. It is therefore important to 
talk to your doctor if you develop a rash. Your doctor will advise you how to deal with your symptoms 
or whether darunavir must be stopped. 
Other severe side effects were diabetes (common), and inflammation of the pancreas (uncommon). 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
diarrhoea. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain or distension, dyspepsia, flatulence 
headache, tiredness, dizziness, drowsiness, numbness, tingling or pain in hands or feet, loss of 
strength, difficulty falling asleep. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
- 
chest pain, changes in electrocardiogram, rapid heart beating 
decreased or abnormal skin sensitivity, pins and needles, attention disturbance, loss of memory, 
problems with your balance 
difficulty breathing, cough, nosebleed, throat irritation 
inflammation of the stomach or mouth, heartburn, retching, dry mouth, discomfort of the 
abdomen, constipation, belching 
- 
- 
144 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
kidney failure, kidney stones, difficult discharge of urine, frequent or excessive passage of 
urine, sometimes at night 
urticaria, severe swelling of the skin and other tissues (most often the lips or the eyes), eczema, 
excessive sweating, night sweats, hair loss, acne, scaly skin, colouration of nails 
muscle pain, muscle cramps or weakness, pain in extremity, osteoporosis 
slowing down of the thyroid gland function. This can be seen in a blood test. 
high blood pressure, flushing 
red or dry eyes 
fever, swelling of lower limbs due to fluids, malaise, irritability, pain 
symptoms of infection, herpes simplex 
erectile dysfunction, enlargement of breasts 
sleeping problems, sleepiness, depression, anxiety, abnormal dreams, decrease in sexual drive 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
- 
a reaction called DRESS [severe rash, which may be accompanied by fever, fatigue, swelling of 
the face or lymph glands, increase of eosinophils (type of white blood cells), effects on liver, 
kidney or lung] 
heart attack, slow heart beating, palpitations 
visual disturbance 
chills, feeling abnormal 
a feeling of confusion or disorientation, altered mood, restlessness 
fainting, epileptic fits, changes or loss of taste 
mouth sores, vomiting blood, inflammation of the lips, dry lips, coated tongue 
running nose 
skin lesions, dry skin 
stiffness of muscles or joints, joint pain with or without inflammation 
changes in some values of your blood cells or chemistry. These can be seen in the results of 
blood and/or urine tests. Your doctor will explain these to you. Examples are: increase in some 
white blood cells 
darunavir crystals in the kidney causing kidney disease. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Some side effects are typical for anti-HIV medicines in the same family as darunavir. These are: 
muscle pain, tenderness or weakness. On rare occasions, these muscle disorders have been 
- 
serious. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Darunavir Mylan 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton, blister and on the bottle 
after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions.  
For bottles: Once opened, use within 100 days. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away any medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
145 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Darunavir Mylan contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is darunavir. Each tablet contains 150 milligram of darunavir. 
The other ingredients are colloidal anhydrous silica, cellulose microcrystalline, crospovidone, 
sodium starch glycolate, hypromellose, magnesium stearate. The film-coating contains 
polyvinyl alcohol partially hydrolysed, titanium dioxide (E171), macrogol and talc. 
What Darunavir Mylan looks like and contents of the pack 
Darunavir Mylan 150 mg film-coated tablets are white to off-white, capsule shaped, with two curved 
sides, marked with M on one side and DV2 on the other side. 
Darunavir Mylan 150 mg film-coated tablets are available in blister packs containing 240 tablets and 
in plastic bottles containing 60 and 240 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15, 
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
Manufacturers 
Mylan Hungary Kft 
H-2900 Komárom, Mylan utca 1  
Hungary 
McDermott Laboratories Limited trading as Gerard Laboratories  
35/36 Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Grange Road, Dublin 13  
Ireland 
Mylan Germany GmbH 
Zweigniederlassung Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe, Benzstrasse 1  
Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe 
Hessen, 61352  
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Mylan bvba/sprl 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
Lietuva 
Mylan Healthcare UAB  
Tel: +370 5 205 1288 
България 
Майлан ЕООД 
Тел: +359 2 44 55 400 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Mylan bvba/sprl 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
(Belgique/Belgien) 
Česká republika 
Viatris CZ s.r.o.  
Tel: + 420 222 004 400 
Magyarország 
Mylan EPD Kft. 
Tel.: + 36 1 465 2100 
146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Danmark 
Viatris ApS 
Tlf: +45 28 11 69 32 
Malta 
V.J. Salomone Pharma Ltd  
Tel: + 356 21 22 01 74 
Deutschland 
Viatris Healthcare GmbH 
Tel: +49 800 0700 800 
Nederland 
Mylan BV 
Tel: +31 (0)20 426 3300 
Eesti 
BGP Products Switzerland GmbH 
Eesti filiaal 
Tel: + 372 6363 052 
Norge 
Viatris AS 
Tlf: + 47 66 75 33 00 
Ελλάδα 
Generics Pharma Hellas ΕΠΕ  
Τηλ: +30 210 993 6410 
Österreich 
Arcana Arzneimittel GmbH  
Tel: +43 1 416 2418 
España 
Viatris Pharmaceuticals, S.L.U. 
Tel: + 34 900 102 712 
Polska 
Mylan Healthcare Sp. z o.o.  
Tel.: + 48 22 546 64 00 
France 
Viatris Santé  
Tél: +33 4 37 25 75 00 
Hrvatska 
Viatris Hrvatska d.o.o.  
Tel: +385 1 23 50 599 
Ireland 
Mylan Ireland Limited  
Tel: +353 1 8711600 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Mylan Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: + 39 02 612 46921 
Portugal 
Mylan, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 214 127 200 
România 
BGP Products SRL  
Tel: +40 372 579 000 
Slovenija 
Viatris d.o.o.  
Tel: + 386 1 23 63 180 
Slovenská republika 
Viatris Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 32 199 100 
Suomi/Finland 
Viatris Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 20 720 9555 
Κύπρος 
Varnavas Hadjipanayis Ltd 
Τηλ: + 357 2220 7700 
Sverige 
Viatris AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 630 19 00 
Latvija 
Mylan Healthcare SIA  
Tel: +371 676 055 80 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Mylan IRE Healthcare Limited  
Tel: +353 18711600 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}. 
147 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
148 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Darunavir Mylan 300 mg film-coated tablets 
darunavir 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Darunavir Mylan is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Darunavir Mylan 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Darunavir Mylan 
Possible side effects 
How to store Darunavir Mylan 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Darunavir Mylan is and what it is used for  
What is Darunavir Mylan? 
Darunavir Mylan contains the active substance darunavir. Darunavir is an antiretroviral medicine used 
in the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection. It belongs to a group of 
medicines called protease inhibitors. Darunavir works by reducing the amount of HIV in your body. 
This will improve your immune system and reduces the risk of developing illnesses linked to HIV 
infection. 
What it is used for? 
Darunavir is used to treat adults and children of 3 years of age and above, and at least 15 kilogram 
body weight who are infected by HIV and who have already used other antiretroviral medicines. 
Darunavir must be taken in combination with a low dose of ritonavir and other anti-HIV medicines. 
Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of medicines is best for you. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Darunavir Mylan  
Do not take Darunavir Mylan 
- 
if you are allergic to darunavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 
6) or to ritonavir. 
if you have severe liver problems. Ask your doctor if you are unsure about the severity of your 
liver disease. Some additional tests might be necessary. 
- 
Do not combine Darunavir Mylan with any of the following medicines 
If you are taking any of these, ask your doctor about switching to another medicine. 
Medicine 
Avanafil 
Astemizole or terfenadine 
Triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) midazolam 
Purpose of the medicine 
to treat erectile dysfunction 
to treat allergy symptoms 
to help you sleep and/or relieve anxiety 
149 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicine 
Cisapride 
Colchicine (if you have kidney and/or liver 
problems) 
Lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapine or sertindole 
Ergot alkaloids like ergotamine, 
dihydroergotamine, ergometrine and 
methylergonovine 
Amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine, 
quinidine, ranolazine 
Lovastatin,simvastatin and lomitapide 
Rifampicin 
The combination product lopinavir/ritonavir 
Elbasvir/grazoprevir 
Alfuzosin 
Sildenafil 
Ticagrelor 
Naloxegol 
Dapoxetine 
Domperidone 
Purpose of the medicine 
to treat some stomach conditions 
to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever 
to treat psychiatric conditions 
to treat migraine headaches 
to treat certain heart disorders e.g. abnormal 
heart beat 
to lower cholesterol levels 
to treat some infections such as tuberculosis 
this anti-HIV medicine belongs to the same 
class as Darunavir Mylan 
to treat hepatitis C infection 
to treat enlarged prostate 
to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation 
to help stop the clumping of platelets in the 
treatment of patients with a history of a heart 
attack 
to treat opioid induced constipation 
to treat premature ejaculation 
to treat nausea and vomiting 
Do not combine darunavir with products that contain St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Darunavir Mylan. 
Darunavir is not a cure for HIV infection.  
People taking darunavir may still develop infections or other illnesses associated with HIV infection. 
You must keep in regular contact with your doctor. 
People taking darunavir may develop a skin rash. Infrequently a rash may become severe or 
potentially life-threatening. Please contact your doctor whenever you develop a rash. 
In patients taking darunavir and raltegravir (for HIV infection), rashes (generally mild or moderate) 
may occur more frequently than in patients taking either medicine separately. 
Tell your doctor about your situation BEFORE and DURING your treatment 
Make sure that you check the following points and tell your doctor if any of these apply to you. 
- 
Tell your doctor if you have had problems with your liver before, including hepatitis B or C 
infection. Your doctor may evaluate how severe your liver disease is before deciding if you can 
take darunavir. 
Tell your doctor if you have diabetes. Darunavir might increase sugar levels in the blood. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any symptoms of infection (for example enlarged 
lymph nodes and fever). In some patients with advanced HIV infection and a history of 
opportunistic infection, signs and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may 
occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an 
improvement in the body’s immune response, enabling the body to fight infections that may 
have been present with no obvious symptoms. 
In addition to the opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when 
the immune system attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines 
for the treatment of your HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after 
- 
- 
- 
150 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
the start of treatment. If you notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as 
muscle weakness, weakness beginning in the hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of 
the body, palpitations, tremor or hyperactivity, please inform your doctor immediately to seek 
necessary treatment. 
Tell your doctor if you have haemophilia. Darunavir might increase the risk of bleeding. 
Tell your doctor if you are allergic to sulphonamides (e.g. used to treat certain infections). 
Tell your doctor if you notice any musculoskeletal problems. Some patients taking 
combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called osteonecrosis (death of 
bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of combination antiretroviral 
therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe immunosuppression, higher body mass 
index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for developing this disease. Signs of 
osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches and pains (especially of the hip, knee and shoulder) and 
difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please inform your doctor. 
Elderly 
Darunavir has only been used in limited numbers of patients 65 years or older. If you belong to this 
age group, please discuss with your doctor if you can use Darunavir Mylan. 
Children 
Darunavir is not for use in children younger than 3 years of age or weighing less than 15 kilograms. 
Other medicines and Darunavir Mylan 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines. 
There are some medicines that you must not combine with darunavir. These are mentioned above 
under the heading ‘Do not combine Darunavir Mylan with any of the following medicines:’ 
In most cases, darunavir can be combined with anti-HIV medicines belonging to another class [e.g. 
NRTIs (nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors), NNRTIs (non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors), CCR5 antagonists and FIs (fusion inhibitors)]. Darunavir with ritonavir has not been tested 
with all PIs (protease inhibitors) and must not be used with other HIV PIs. In some cases dosage of 
other medicines might need to be changed. Therefore always tell your doctor if you take other anti- 
HIV medicines and follow your doctor’s instruction carefully on which medicines can be combined. 
The effects of darunavir might be reduced if you take any of the following products. Tell your doctor 
if you take: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Phenobarbital, phenytoin (to prevent seizures) 
Dexamethasone (corticosteroid) 
Efavirenz (HIV infection) 
Rifapentine, rifabutin (medicines to treat some infections such as tuberculosis) 
Saquinavir (HIV infection). 
The effects of other medicines might be influenced if you take darunavir and your doctor might want 
to do some additional blood tests. Tell your doctor if you take: 
- 
Amlodipine, diltiazem, disopyramide, carvedilol, felodipine, flecainide, lidocaide, metoprolol, 
mexiletine, nifedipine, nicardipine, propafenone, timolol, verapamil (for heart disease) as the 
therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines may be increased. 
Apixaban, dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel (to reduce 
clotting of the blood) as their therapeutic effect or side effects may be altered. 
Oestrogen-based hormonal contraceptives and hormonal replacement therapy. Darunavir might 
reduce its effectiveness. When used for birth control, alternative methods of non-hormonal 
contraception are recommended. 
Ethinylestradiol/drospirenone. Darunavir might increase the risk for elevated potassium levels 
by drospirenone. 
Atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin (to lower cholesterol levels). The risk of muscle demage 
might be increased. Your doctor will evaluate which cholesterol lowering regimen is best for 
your specific situation. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Clarithromycin (antibiotic) 
Ciclosporin, everolimus, tacrolimus, sirolimus (for dampening down your immune system) as 
the therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines might be increased.  
Corticosteroids including betamethasone, budesonide, fluticasone, mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone. These medicines are used to treat allergies, asthma, inflammatory bowel 
diseases, inflammatory conditions of the skin, eyes, joints and muscles and other inflammatory 
conditions. These medicines are generally taken orally, inhaled, injected or applied to the skin. 
If alternatives cannot be used, its use should only take place after medical evaluation and under 
close monitoring by your doctor for corticosteroid side effects. 
Buprenorphine/naloxone (medicines to treat opioide dependence) 
Salmeterol (medicine to treat asthma) 
Artemether/lumefantrine (a combination medicine to treat malaria) 
Dasatinib, everolimus, irinotecan, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine (to treat cancer) 
Sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil (for erectile dysfunction or to treat a heart and lung disorder 
called pulmonary arterial hypertension) 
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir (to treat hepatitis C infection) 
Fentanyl, oxycodone, tramadol (to treat pain) 
Fesoterodine, solifenacin (to treat urologic disorders). 
Your doctor might want to do some additional blood tests and the dosage of other medicines might 
need to be changed since either their own or darunavir’s therapeutic effect or side effects may be 
influenced when combined. 
Tell your doctor if you take: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, warfarin (to reduce clotting of the blood) 
Alfentanil (injectable strong and short-acting painkiller that is used for surgical procedures) 
Digoxin (to treat certain heart disorders) 
Clarithromycin (antibiotic) 
Itraconazole, isavuconazole, fluconazole, posaconazole, clotrimazole (to treat fungal 
infections). Voriconazole should only be taken after medical evaluation. 
Rifabutin (against bacterial infections) 
Sildenafil, vardenafil, tadalafil (for erectile dysfunction or high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation) 
Amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline, paroxetine, sertraline, trazodone (to treat 
depression and anxiety) 
Maraviroc (to treat HIV infection) 
Methadone (to treat opiate dependence) 
Carbamazepine, clonazepam (to prevent seizures or to treat certain types of nerve pain) 
Colchicine (to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever) 
Bosentan (to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary circulation) 
Buspirone, clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam, flurazepam, midazolam when used as injection, 
zolpidem (sedative agents) 
Perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine (to treat psychiatric conditions). 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
This is not a complete list of medicines. Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines that you are 
taking. 
Darunavir Mylan with food and drink 
See section 3 ‘How to take Darunavir Mylan’. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor immediately if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant. Pregnant women 
must not take darunavir with ritonavir unless specifically directed by the doctor. Pregnant women 
should not take darunavir with cobicistat. 
Because of the potential for side effects in breast-fed infants, women should not breast-feed if they are 
receiving Darunavir Mylan. 
152 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed on 
to the baby in breast milk. If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should discuss 
it with your doctor as soon as possible. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not operate machines or drive if you feel dizzy after taking Darunavir Mylan. 
Darunavir Mylan contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium- 
free’. 
3. 
How to take Darunavir Mylan 
Always use this medicine exactly as described in this leaflet or as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has 
told you. Check with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
Even if you feel better, do not stop taking Darunavir Mylan and ritonavir without talking to your 
doctor. 
After therapy has been initiated, the dose or dosage form must not be changed or therapy must not be 
stopped without instruction of the doctor. 
Dose for adults who have not taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine 
this) 
You will require a different dose of darunavir which cannot be administered with these 300 milligram 
tablets. Other strengths of Darunavir Mylan are available. 
Dose for adults who have taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine this) 
The dose is either: 
- 
600 milligram darunavir (2 tablets containing 300 milligram of darunavir or 1 tablet containing 
600 milligram of darunavir) together with 100 milligram ritonavir twice daily. 
OR 
800 milligram darunavir (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of darunavir or 1 tablet containing 
800 milligram of darunavir) together with 100 milligram ritonavir once daily. Darunavir Mylan 
400 milligram and 800 milligram tablets are only to be used to construct the once daily 800 
milligram regimen. 
- 
Please discuss with your doctor which dose is right for you. 
Instructions for adults 
- 
Take darunavir always together with ritonavir. Darunavir cannot work properly without 
ritonavir. 
In the morning, take two 300 milligram darunavir tablets together with 100 milligram ritonavir. 
In the evening, take two 300 milligram darunavir tablets together with 100 milligram ritonavir. 
Take darunavir with food. Darunavir cannot work properly without food. The type of food is not 
important. 
Swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk. 
Darunavir 75 milligram and 150 milligram tablets have been developed for use in children, but 
can also be used in adults in some cases. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Dose for children of 3 years of age and above, weighing at least 15 kilograms who have not taken 
antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this) 
The doctor will work out the right once daily dose based on the weight of the child (see table below). 
This dose must not exceed the recommended adult dose, which is 800 milligram darunavir together 
with 100 milligram ritonavir once a day. 
The doctor will inform you on how much Darunavir Mylan tablets and how much ritonavir (capsules, 
tablets or solution) the child must take. 
153 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Weight 
between 15 and 30 kilograms 
between 30 and 40 kilograms 
more than 40 kilograms 
One darunavir dose is 
600 milligram 
675 milligram 
800 milligram 
a ritonavir oral solution: 80 milligram per milliliter 
One ritonavira dose is 
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
Dose for children of 3 years of age and above, weighing at least 15 kilograms who have taken 
antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this) 
The doctor will work out the right dose based on the weight of the child (see table below). The doctor 
will determine if once daily dosing or twice daily dosing is appropriate for the child. This dose must 
not exceed the recommended adult dose, which is 600 milligram darunavir together with 
100 milligram ritonavir two times per day or 800 milligram darunavir together with 100 milligram 
ritonavir once a day. 
The doctor will inform you on how many Darunavir Mylan tablets and how much ritonavir (capsules, 
tablets or solution) the child must take. Tablets of lower strengths are available and your doctor may 
have prescribed a certain combination of tablets to construct the appropriate dosing regimen. 
Other forms of this medicine may be more suitable for children: ask your doctor or pharmacist.  
Twice daily dosing 
Weight 
between 15 and 30 kilograms 
between 30 and 40 kilograms 
more than 40 kilograms* 
One dose is 
375 milligram darunavir + 50 milligram ritonavir 
twice a day 
450 milligram darunavir + 60 milligram ritonavir 
twice a day 
600 milligram darunavir + 100 milligram 
ritonavir twice a day 
*  For children aged 12 or more and weighing at least 40 kilograms, your child’s doctor will determine if Darunavir Mylan 
800 milligram once daily dosing may be used. This cannot be administered with these 300 milligram tablets. Other 
strengths of Darunavir Mylan are available. 
Once daily dosing 
Weight 
One darunavir dose is 
One ritonavira dose is 
between 15 and 30 kilograms 
between 30 and 40 kilograms 
more than 40 kilograms 
a ritonavir oral solution: 80 milligram per milliliter 
600 milligram 
675 milligram 
800 milligram 
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
Instructions for children 
- 
The child must take darunavir always together with ritonavir. Darunavir cannot work properly 
without ritonavir. 
The child must take the appropriate doses of darunavir and ritonavir two times per day or once a 
day. If prescribed darunavir twice daily the child must take one dose in the morning, and one 
dose in the evening. Your child’s doctor will determine the appropriate dosing regimen for your 
child. 
The child must take darunavir with food. Darunavir cannot work properly without food. The 
type of food is not important. 
The child must swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk. 
- 
- 
- 
If you take more Darunavir Mylan than you should 
Contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately. 
If you forget to take Darunavir Mylan 
If you notice within 6 hours, you must take the tablets immediately. Always take with ritonavir and 
food. If you notice after 6 hours, then skip the intake and take the next doses as usual. Do not take a 
double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
154 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you vomit after taking Darunavir Mylan and ritonavir 
If you vomit within 4 hours of taking the medicine, another dose of Darunavir Mylan and ritonavir 
should be taken with food as soon as possible. If you vomit more than 4 hours after taking the 
medicine, then you do not need to take another dose of Darunavir Mylan and ritonavir until the next 
regularly scheduled time. 
Contact your doctor if you are uncertain about what to do if you miss a dose or vomit. 
Do not stop taking Darunavir Mylan without talking to your doctor first 
Anti-HIV medicines may make you feel better. Even when you feel better, do not stop taking 
Darunavir Mylan. Talk to your doctor first. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
During HIV therapy there may be an incease in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes. 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor if you develop any of the following side effects 
Liver problems that may occasionally be severe have been reported. Your doctor should do blood tests 
before you start darunavir. If you have chronic hepatitis B or C infection, your doctor should check 
your blood tests more often because you have an increased chance of developing liver problems. Talk 
to your doctor about the signs and symptoms of liver problems. These may include yellowing of your 
skin or whites of your eyes, dark (tea coloured) urine, pale coloured stools (bowel movements), 
nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, or pain, aching, or pain and discomforton your right side below 
your ribs. 
Skin rash (more often when used in combination with raltegravir), itching. The rash is usually mild to 
moderate. A skin rash might also be a symptom of a rare severe situation. It is therefore important to 
talk to your doctor if you develop a rash. Your doctor will advise you how to deal with your symptoms 
or whether darunavir must be stopped. 
Other severe side effects were diabetes (common), and inflammation of the pancreas (uncommon). 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
diarrhoea. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain or distension, dyspepsia, flatulence 
headache, tiredness, dizziness, drowsiness, numbness, tingling or pain in hands or feet, loss of 
strength, difficulty falling asleep. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
- 
chest pain, changes in electrocardiogram, rapid heart beating 
decreased or abnormal skin sensitivity, pins and needles, attention disturbance, loss of memory, 
problems with your balance 
difficulty breathing, cough, nosebleed, throat irritation 
inflammation of the stomach or mouth, heartburn, retching, dry mouth, discomfort of the 
abdomen, constipation, belching 
kidney failure, kidney stones, difficult discharge of urine, frequent or excessive passage of 
urine, sometimes at night 
urticaria, severe swelling of the skin and other tissues (most often the lips or the eyes), eczema, 
excessive sweating, night sweats, hair loss, acne, scaly skin, colouration of nails 
- 
- 
- 
- 
155 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
muscle pain, muscle cramps or weakness, pain in extremity, osteoporosis 
slowing down of the thyroid gland function. This can be seen in a blood test. 
high blood pressure, flushing 
red or dry eyes 
fever, swelling of lower limbs due to fluids, malaise, irritability, pain 
symptoms of infection, herpes simplex 
erectile dysfunction, enlargement of breasts 
sleeping problems, sleepiness, depression, anxiety, abnormal dreams, decrease in sexual drive 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
- 
a reaction called DRESS [severe rash, which may be accompanied by fever, fatigue, swelling of 
the face or lymph glands, increase of eosinophils (type of white blood cells), effects on liver, 
kidney or lung] 
heart attack, slow heart beating, palpitations 
visual disturbance 
chills, feeling abnormal 
a feeling of confusion or disorientation, altered mood, restlessness 
fainting, epileptic fits, changes or loss of taste 
mouth sores, vomiting blood, inflammation of the lips, dry lips, coated tongue 
running nose 
skin lesions, dry skin 
stiffness of muscles or joints, joint pain with or without inflammation 
changes in some values of your blood cells or chemistry. These can be seen in the results of 
blood and/or urine tests. Your doctor will explain these to you. Examples are: increase in some 
white blood cells 
darunavir crystals in the kidney causing kidney disease. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Some side effects are typical for anti-HIV medicines in the same family as darunavir. These are: 
muscle pain, tenderness or weakness. On rare occasions, these muscle disorders have been 
- 
serious. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Darunavir Mylan 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton, blister and on the bottle 
after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions.  
For bottles: Once opened, use within 100 days. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away any medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information  
What Darunavir Mylan contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is darunavir. Each tablet contains 300 milligram of darunavir. 
The other ingredients are colloidal anhydrous silica, cellulose microcrystalline, crospovidone 
(Type A), sodium starch glycolate, hypromellose, magnesium stearate. The film-coating 
contains polyvinyl alcohol partially hydrolysed, titanium dioxide (E171), macrogol and talc. 
What Darunavir Mylan looks like and contents of the pack 
Darunavir Mylan 300 mg film-coated tablets are white to off-white, oval shaped, with two curved 
sides, marked with M on one side and DV3 on the other side. 
Darunavir Mylan 300 mg film-coated tablets are available in blister packs containing 30, 60 and 120 
tablets and in plastic bottles containing 30 and 120 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15, 
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Mylan Hungary Kft 
H-2900 Komárom, Mylan utca 1  
Hungary 
McDermott Laboratories Limited trading as Gerard Laboratories  
35/36 Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Grange Road, Dublin 13  
Ireland 
Mylan Germany GmbH 
Zweigniederlassung Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe, Benzstrasse 1  
Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe 
Hessen, 61352  
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Mylan bvba/sprl 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
Lietuva 
Mylan Healthcare UAB  
Tel: +370 5 205 1288 
България 
Майлан ЕООД 
Тел: +359 2 44 55 400 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Mylan bvba/sprl 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
(Belgique/Belgien) 
Česká republika 
Viatris CZ s.r.o.  
Tel: + 420 222 004 400 
Magyarország 
Mylan EPD Kft. 
Tel.: + 36 1 465 2100 
157 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Danmark 
Viatris ApS 
Tlf: +45 28 11 69 32 
Malta 
V.J. Salomone Pharma Ltd  
Tel: + 356 21 22 01 74 
Deutschland 
Viatris Healthcare GmbH  
Tel: +49 800 0700 800 
Nederland 
Mylan BV 
Tel: +31 (0)20 426 3300 
Eesti 
BGP Products Switzerland GmbH 
Eesti filiaal 
Tel: + 372 6363 052 
Norge 
Viatris AS 
Tlf: + 47 66 75 33 00 
Ελλάδα 
Generics Pharma Hellas ΕΠΕ  
Τηλ: +30 210 993 6410 
Österreich 
Arcana Arzneimittel GmbH  
Tel: +43 1 416 2418 
España 
Viatris Pharmaceuticals, S.L.U. 
Tel: + 34 900 102 712 
Polska 
Mylan Healthcare Sp. z o.o.  
Tel.: + 48 22 546 64 00 
France 
Viatris Santé  
Tél: +33 4 37 25 75 00 
Hrvatska 
Viatris Hrvatska d.o.o.  
Tel: +385 1 23 50 599 
Ireland 
Mylan Ireland Limited  
Tel: +353 1 8711600 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Mylan Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: + 39 02 612 46921 
Portugal 
Mylan, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 214 127 200 
România 
BGP Products SRL  
Tel: +40 372 579 000 
Slovenija 
Viatris d.o.o.  
Tel: + 386 1 23 63 180 
Slovenská republika 
Viatris Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 32 199 100 
Suomi/Finland 
Viatris Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 20 720 9555 
Κύπρος 
Varnavas Hadjipanayis Ltd 
Τηλ: + 357 2220 7700 
Sverige 
Viatris AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 630 19 00 
Latvija 
Mylan Healthcare SIA  
Tel: +371 676 055 80 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Mylan IRE Healthcare Limited  
Tel: +353 18711600 
158 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}.  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
159 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Darunavir Mylan 400 mg film-coated tablets 
darunavir 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Darunavir Mylan is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Darunavir Mylan 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Darunavir Mylan 
Possible side effects 
How to store Darunavir Mylan 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Darunavir Mylan is and what it is used for  
What is Darunavir Mylan? 
Darunavir Mylan contains the active substance darunavir. Darunavir is an antiretroviral medicine used 
in the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection. It belongs to a group of 
medicines called protease inhibitors. Darunavir works by reducing the amount of HIV in your body. 
This will improve your immune system and reduces the risk of developing illnesses linked to HIV 
infection. 
What it is used for? 
Darunavir is used to treat adults and children 3 years of age and above, at least 40 kilograms body 
weight) who are infected by HIV and 
- 
- 
who have not used antiretroviral medicines before. 
in certain patients who have used antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine 
this). 
Darunavir must be taken in combination with a low dose of cobicistat or ritonavir and other anti-HIV 
medicines. Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of medicines is best for you. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Darunavir Mylan  
Do not take Darunavir Mylan 
- 
if you are allergic to darunavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 
6) or to cobicistat or ritonavir. 
if you have severe liver problems. Ask your doctor if you are unsure about the severity of your 
liver disease. Some additional tests might be necessary. 
- 
160 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not combine Darunavir Mylan with any of the following medicines 
If you are taking any of these, ask your doctor about switching to another medicine. 
Medicine 
Avanafil 
Astemizole or terfenadine 
Triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) midazolam 
Cisapride 
Colchicine (if you have kidney and/or liver 
problems) 
Lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapine or sertindole 
Ergot alkaloids like ergotamine, 
dihydroergotamine, ergometrine and 
methylergonovine 
Amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine, 
quinidine, ranolazine 
Lovastatin, simvastatin and lomitapide 
Rifampicin 
The combination product lopinavir/ritonavir 
Elbasvir/grazoprevir 
Alfuzosin 
Sildenafil 
Ticagrelor 
Naloxegol 
Dapoxetine 
Domperidone 
Purpose of the medicine 
to treat erectile dysfunction 
to treat allergy symptoms 
to help you sleep and/or relieve anxiety 
to treat some stomach conditions 
to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever 
to treat psychiatric conditions 
to treat migraine headaches 
to treat certain heart disorders e.g. abnormal heart 
beat 
to lower cholesterol levels 
to treat some infections such as tuberculosis 
this anti-HIV medicine belongs to the same class as 
darunavir 
to treat hepatitis C infection 
to treat enlarged prostate 
to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation 
to help stop the clumping of platelets in the 
treatment of patients with a history of a heart attack 
to treat opioid induced constipation 
to treat premature ejaculation 
to treat nausea and vomiting 
Do not combine darunavir with products that contain St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Darunavir Mylan. 
Darunavir is not a cure for HIV infection.  
People taking darunavir may still develop infections or other illnesses associated with HIV infection. 
You must keep in regular contact with your doctor. 
People taking darunavir may develop a skin rash. Infrequently a rash may become severe or 
potentially life-threatening. Please contact your doctor whenever you develop a rash. 
In patients taking darunavir and raltegravir (for HIV infection), rashes (generally mild or moderate) 
may occur more frequently than in patients taking either medicine separately. 
Tell your doctor about your situation BEFORE and DURING your treatment 
Make sure that you check the following points and tell your doctor if any of these apply to you. 
- 
Tell your doctor if you have had problems with your liver before, including hepatitis B or C 
infection. Your doctor may evaluate how severe your liver disease is before deciding if you can 
take darunavir. 
Tell your doctor if you have diabetes. Darunavir might increase sugar levels in the blood. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any symptoms of infection (for example enlarged 
lymph nodes and fever). In some patients with advanced HIV infection and a history of 
opportunistic infection, signs and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may 
occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an 
- 
- 
161 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
improvement in the body’s immune response, enabling the body to fight infections that may 
have been present with no obvious symptoms. 
In addition to the opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when 
the immune system attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines 
for the treatment of your HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after 
the start of treatment. If you notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as 
muscle weakness, weakness beginning in the hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of 
the body, palpitations, tremor or hyperactivity, please inform your doctor immediately to seek 
necessary treatment. 
Tell your doctor if you have haemophilia. Darunavir might increase the risk of bleeding. 
Tell your doctor if you are allergic to sulphonamides (e.g. used to treat certain infections). 
Tell your doctor if you notice any musculoskeletal problems. Some patients taking 
combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called osteonecrosis (death of 
bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of combination antiretroviral 
therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe immunosuppression, higher body mass 
index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for developing this disease. Signs of 
osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches and pains (especially of the hip, knee and shoulder) and 
difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please inform your doctor. 
Elderly 
Darunavir has only been used in limited numbers of patients 65 years or older. If you belong to this 
age group, please discuss with your doctor if you can use Darunavir Mylan. 
Children and adolescents 
Darunavir is not for use in children younger than 3 years of age or weighing less than 15 kilograms. 
Other medicines and Darunavir Mylan 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines. 
There are some medicines that you must not combine with darunavir. These are mentioned above 
under the heading ‘Do not combine Darunavir Mylan with any of the following medicines:’ 
In most cases, darunavir can be combined with anti-HIV medicines belonging to another class [e.g. 
NRTIs (nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors), NNRTIs (non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors), CCR5 antagonists and FIs (fusion inhibitors)]. Darunavir with cobicistat or ritonavir has 
not been tested with all PIs (protease inhibitors) and must not be used with other HIV PIs. In some 
cases dosage of other medicines might need to be changed. Therefore always tell your doctor if you 
take other anti-HIV medicines and follow your doctor’s instruction carefully on which medicines can 
be combined. 
The effects of darunavir might be reduced if you take any of the following products. Tell your doctor 
if you take: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Phenobarbital, phenytoin (to prevent seizures) 
Dexamethasone (corticosteroid) 
Efavirenz (HIV infection) 
Rifapentine, rifabutin (medicines to treat some infections such as tuberculosis) 
Saquinavir (HIV infection). 
The effects of other medicines might be influenced if you take darunavir and your doctor might want 
to do some additional blood tests. Tell your doctor if you take: 
- 
Amlodipine, diltiazem, disopyramide, carvedilol, felodipine, flecainide, lidocaine, metoprolol, 
mexiletine, nifedipine, nicardipine, propafenone, timolol, verapamil (for heart disease) as the 
therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines may be increased. 
Apixaban, dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel (to reduce 
clotting of the blood) as their therapeutic effect or side effects may be altered. 
- 
162 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Oestrogen-based hormonal contraceptives and hormonal replacement therapy. Darunavir might 
reduce its effectiveness. When used for birth control, alternative methods of non-hormonal 
contraception are recommended. 
Ethinylestradiol/drospirenone. Darunavir might increase the risk for elevated potassium levels 
by drospirenone. 
Atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin (to lower cholesterol levels). The risk of muscle damage 
might be increased. Your doctor will evaluate which cholesterol lowering regimen is best for 
your specific situation. 
Clarithromycin (antibiotic) 
Ciclosporin, everolimus, tacrolimus, sirolimus (for dampening down your immune system) as the 
therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines might be increased. 
Corticosteroids including betamethasone, budesonide, fluticasone, mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone. These medicines are used to treat allergies, asthma, inflammatory bowel 
diseases, inflammatory conditions of the skin, eyes, joints and muscles and other inflammatory 
conditions. These medicines are generally taken orally, inhaled, injected or applied to the skin. 
If alternatives cannot be used, its use should only take place after medical evaluation and under 
close monitoring by your doctor for corticosteroid side effects. 
Buprenorphine/naloxone (medicines to treat opioid dependence) 
Salmeterol (medicine to treat asthma) 
Artemether/lumefantrine (a combination medicine to treat malaria) 
Dasatinib, everolimus, irinotecan, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine (to treat cancer) 
Sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil (for erectile dysfunction or to treat a heart and lung disorder 
called pulmonary arterial hypertension) 
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir (to treat hepatitis C infection) 
Fentanyl, oxycodone, tramadol (to treat pain) 
Fesoterodine, solifenacin (to treat urologic disorders). 
Your doctor might want to do some additional blood tests and the dosage of other medicines might 
need to be changed since either their own or darunavir’s therapeutic effect or side effects may be 
influenced when combined. 
Tell your doctor if you take: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, warfarin (to reduce clotting of the blood) 
Alfentanil (injectable strong and short-acting painkiller that is used for surgical procedures) 
Digoxin (to treat certain heart disorders) 
Clarithromycin (antibiotic) 
Itraconazole, isavuconazole, fluconazole, posaconazole, clotrimazole (to treat fungal 
infections). Voriconazole should only be taken after medical evaluation. 
Rifabutin (against bacterial infections) 
Sildenafil, vardenafil, tadalafil (for erectile dysfunction or high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation) 
Amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline, paroxetine, sertraline, trazodone (to treat 
depression and anxiety) 
Maraviroc (to treat HIV infection) 
Methadone (to treat opiate dependence) 
Carbamazepine, clonazepam (to prevent seizures or to treat certain types of nerve pain) 
Colchicine (to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever) 
Bosentan (to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary circulation) 
Buspirone, clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam, flurazepam, midazolam when used as injection, 
zolpidem (sedative agents) 
Perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine (to treat psychiatric conditions) 
Metformin (to treat type 2 diabetes). 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
This is not a complete list of medicines. Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines that you are 
taking. 
Darunavir Mylan with food and drink 
See section 3 ‘How to take Darunavir Mylan. 
163 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor immediately if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant. Pregnant women 
must not take darunavir with ritonavir unless specifically directed by the doctor. Pregnant women 
should not take darunavir with cobicistat. 
Because of the potential for side effects in breast-fed infants, women should not breast-feed if they are 
receiving Darunavir Mylan. 
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed on 
to the baby in breast milk. If you are breast-feeding or thinking about breast-feeding, you should discuss 
it with your doctor as soon as possible. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not operate machines or drive if you feel dizzy after taking darunavir. 
Darunavir Mylan contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium- 
free’. 
3. 
How to take Darunavir Mylan 
Always use this medicine exactly as described in this leaflet or as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has 
told you. Check with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
Even if you feel better, do not stop taking darunavir and cobicistat or ritonavir without talking to your 
doctor. 
After therapy has been initiated, the dose or dosage form must not be changed or therapy must not be 
stopped without instruction of the doctor. 
Darunavir 400 mg tablets are only to be used to construct the once daily 800 mg regimen. 
Dose for adults who have not taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine 
this) 
The usual dose of darunavir is 800 milligram (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of Darunavir Mylan 
or 1 tablet containing 800 milligram of Darunavir Mylan) once daily. 
You must take darunavir every day and always in combination with 150 milligram of cobicistat or 
100 milligram of ritonavir and with food. Darunavir cannot work properly without cobicistat or 
ritonavir and food. You must eat a meal or a snack within 30 minutes prior to taking your darunavir 
and cobicistat or ritonavir. The type of food is not important. Even if you feel better, do not stop taking 
darunavir and cobicistat or ritonavir without talking to your doctor. 
Instructions for adults 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Take two 400 milligram tablets at the same time, once a day, every day. 
Take darunavir always together with 150 milligram of cobicistat or 100 milligram of ritonavir. 
Take darunavir with food. 
Swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk. 
Take your other HIV medicines used in combination with darunavir and cobicistat or ritonavir 
as recommended by your doctor. 
Dose for adults who have taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine this) 
The dose is either: 
- 
800 milligram darunavir (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of darunavir or 1 tablet containing 
800 milligram of darunavir) together with 150 milligram cobicistat or 100 milligram ritonavir 
once daily. 
164 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
OR 
600 milligram darunavir (2 tablets containing 300 milligram of darunavir or 1 tablet containing 
600 milligram of darunavir) together with 100 milligram ritonavir twice daily. 
Please discuss with your doctor which dose is right for you. 
Dose for children 3 years of age and above with ritonavir, and 12 years of age and above with 
cobicistat, weighing more than 40 kilograms who have not taken antiretroviral medicines before 
(your child’s doctor will determine this) 
- 
The usual dose of darunavir is 800 milligram (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of darunavir or 
1 tablet containing 800 milligram of darunavir) together with 100 milligram ritonavir or 
150 milligram of cobicistat once daily. 
Dose for children 3 years of age and above with ritonavir, and 12 years of age and above with 
cobicistat, weighing more than 40 kilograms who have taken antiretroviral medicines before 
(your child’s doctor will determine this) 
The dose is either: 
- 
800 milligram darunavir (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of darunavir or 1 tablet containing 
800 milligram of darunavir) together with 100 milligram ritonavir or 150 milligram of cobicistat 
once daily. 
OR 
600 milligram darunavir (2 tablets containing 300 milligram of darunavir or 1 tablet containing 
600 milligram of darunavir) together with 100 milligram ritonavir twice daily. 
- 
Please discuss with your doctor which dose is right for you. 
Instructions for children 3 years of age and above with ritonavir, and 12 years of age and above 
with cobicistat, weighing more than 40 kilograms 
- 
Take 800 milligram darunavir (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of darunavir or 1 tablet 
containing 800 milligram of darunavir) at the same time, once a day, every day. 
Take darunavir always together with 100 milligram of ritonavir or 150 milligram of cobicistat. 
Take darunavir with food. 
Swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk. 
Take your other HIV medicines used in combination with darunavir and ritonavir or cobicistat 
as recommended by your doctor. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If you take more Darunavir Mylan than you should 
Contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately. 
If you forget to take Darunavir Mylan 
If you notice within 12 hours, you must take the tablets immediately. Always take with cobicistat or 
ritonavir and food. If you notice after 12 hours, then skip the intake and take the next doses as usual. 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you vomit after taking Darunavir Mylan and cobicistat or ritonavir 
If you vomit within 4 hours of taking the medicine, another dose of Darunavir Mylan and cobicistat 
or ritonavir should be taken with food as soon as possible. If you vomit more than 4 hours after 
taking the medicine, then you do not need to take another dose of Darunavir Mylan and cobicistat or 
ritonavir until the next regularly scheduled time. 
Contact your doctor if you are uncertain about what to do if you miss a dose or vomit. 
165 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not stop taking Darunavir Mylan without talking to your doctor first 
Anti-HIV medicines may make you feel better. Even when you feel better, do not stop taking 
Darunavir Mylan. Talk to your doctor first. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes. 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor if you develop any of the following side effects 
Liver problems that may occasionally be severe have been reported. Your doctor should do blood tests 
before you start darunavir. If you have chronic hepatitis B or C infection, your doctor should check 
your blood tests more often because you have an increased chance of developing liver problems. Talk 
to your doctor about the signs and symptoms of liver problems. These may include yellowing of your 
skin or whites of your eyes, dark (tea coloured) urine, pale coloured stools (bowel movements), 
nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, or pain, aching, or pain and discomfort on your right side below 
your ribs. 
Skin rash (more often when used in combination with raltegravir), itching. The rash is usually mild to 
moderate. A skin rash might also be a symptom of a rare severe situation. It is therefore important to 
talk to your doctor if you develop a rash. Your doctor will advise you how to deal with your symptoms 
or whether darunavir must be stopped. 
Other severe side effects were diabetes (common), and inflammation of the pancreas (uncommon).  
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
diarrhoea. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain or distension, dyspepsia, flatulence 
headache, tiredness, dizziness, drowsiness, numbness, tingling or pain in hands or feet, loss of 
strength, difficulty falling asleep. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
- 
chest pain, changes in electrocardiogram, rapid heart beating 
decreased or abnormal skin sensitivity, pins and needles, attention disturbance, loss of memory, 
problems with your balance 
difficulty breathing, cough, nosebleed, throat irritation 
inflammation of the stomach or mouth, heartburn, retching, dry mouth, discomfort of the 
abdomen, constipation, belching 
kidney failure, kidney stones, difficult discharge of urine, frequent or excessive passage of 
urine, sometimes at night 
urticaria, severe swelling of the skin and other tissues (most often the lips or the eyes), eczema, 
excessive sweating, night sweats, hair loss, acne, scaly skin, colouration of nails 
muscle pain, muscle cramps or weakness, pain in extremity, osteoporosis 
slowing down of the thyroid gland function. This can be seen in a blood test. 
high blood pressure, flushing 
red or dry eyes 
fever, swelling of lower limbs due to fluids, malaise, irritability, pain 
symptoms of infection, herpes simplex 
erectile dysfunction, enlargement of breasts 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
166 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
sleeping problems, sleepiness, depression, anxiety, abnormal dreams, decrease in sexual drive 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
- 
a reaction called DRESS [severe rash, which may be accompanied by fever, fatigue, swelling of 
the face or lymph glands, increase of eosinophils (type of white blood cells), effects on liver, 
kidney or lung] 
heart attack, slow heart beating, palpitations 
visual disturbance 
chills, feeling abnormal 
a feeling of confusion or disorientation, altered mood, restlessness 
fainting, epileptic fits, changes or loss of taste 
mouth sores, vomiting blood, inflammation of the lips, dry lips, coated tongue 
running nose 
skin lesions, dry skin 
stiffness of muscles or joints, joint pain with or without inflammation 
changes in some values of your blood cells or chemistry. These can be seen in the results of 
blood and/or urine tests. Your doctor will explain these to you. Examples are: increase in some 
white blood cells 
darunavir crystals in the kidney causing kidney disease. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Some side effects are typical for anti-HIV medicines in the same family as darunavir. These are: 
muscle pain, tenderness or weakness. On rare occasions, these muscle disorders have been 
- 
serious. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Darunavir Mylan 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton, blister and on the bottle 
after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions.  
For bottles: Once opened, use within 100 days. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away any medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information  
What Darunavir Mylan contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is darunavir. Each tablet contains 400 milligrams of darunavir. 
The other ingredients are colloidal anhydrous silica, cellulose microcrystalline, crospovidone, 
sodium starch glycolate, hypromellose, magnesium stearate. The film-coating contains 
polyvinyl alcohol partially hydrolysed, titanium dioxide (E171), macrogol and talc. 
167 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What Darunavir Mylan looks like and contents of the pack 
Darunavir Mylan 400 mg film-coated tablets are white to off-white, oval shaped with two curved 
sides, marked with M on one side and DV4 on the other side. 
Darunavir Mylan 400 mg film-coated tablets are available blister packs containing 30 and 60 tablets 
and in the HDPE bottles of 60 and 100 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15, 
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Mylan Hungary Kft 
H-2900 Komárom, Mylan utca 1  
Hungary 
McDermott Laboratories Limited trading as Gerard Laboratories  
35/36 Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Grange Road, Dublin 13  
Ireland 
Mylan Germany GmbH 
Zweigniederlassung Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe, Benzstrasse 1  
Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe 
Hessen, 61352  
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Mylan bvba/sprl 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
България 
Майлан ЕООД 
Тел: +359 2 44 55 400 
Česká republika 
Viatris CZ s.r.o.  
Tel: + 420 222 004 400 
Danmark 
Viatris ApS 
Tlf: +45 28 11 69 32 
Deutschland 
Viatris Healthcare GmbH 
Tel: +49 800 0700 800 
Lietuva 
Mylan Healthcare UAB 
Tel: +370 5 205 1288 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Mylan bvba/sprl 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
(Belgique/Belgien) 
Magyarország 
Mylan EPD Kft. 
Tel.: + 36 1 465 2100 
Malta 
V.J. Salomone Pharma Ltd  
Tel: + 356 21 22 01 74 
Nederland 
Mylan BV 
Tel: +31 (0)20 426 3300 
168 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eesti 
BGP Products Switzerland GmbH Eesti filiaal 
Tel: + 372 6363 052 
Norge 
Viatris AS 
Tlf: + 47 66 75 33 00 
Ελλάδα 
Generics Pharma Hellas ΕΠΕ  
Τηλ: +30 210 993 6410 
España 
Viatris Pharmaceuticals, S.L.U. 
Tel: + 34 900 102 712 
France 
Viatris Santé  
Tél: +33 4 37 25 75 00 
Hrvatska 
Viatris Hrvatska d.o.o.  
Tel: +385 1 23 50 599 
Ireland 
Mylan Ireland Limited  
Tel: +353 1 8711600 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Mylan Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: + 39 02 612 46921 
Κύπρος 
Varnavas Hadjipanayis Ltd 
Τηλ: + 357 2220 7700 
Latvija 
Mylan Healthcare SIA  
Tel: +371 676 055 80 
Österreich 
Arcana Arzneimittel GmbH  
Tel: +43 1 416 2418 
Polska 
Mylan Healthcare Sp. z o.o.  
Tel.: + 48 22 546 64 00 
Portugal 
Mylan, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 214 127 200 
România 
BGP Products SRL  
Tel: +40 372 579 000 
Slovenija 
Viatris d.o.o.  
Tel: + 386 1 23 63 180 
Slovenská republika 
Viatris Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 32 199 100 
Suomi/Finland 
Viatris Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 20 720 9555 
Sverige 
Viatris AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 630 19 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Mylan IRE Healthcare Limited Tel: +353 
18711600 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}.  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
169 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Darunavir Mylan 600 mg film-coated tablets 
darunavir 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Darunavir Mylan is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Darunavir Mylan 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Darunavir Mylan 
Possible side effects 
How to store Darunavir Mylan 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Darunavir Mylan is and what it is used for  
What is Darunavir Mylan? 
Darunavir Mylan contains the active substance darunavir. Darunavir is an antiretroviral medicine used 
in the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection. It belongs to a group of 
medicines called protease inhibitors. Darunavir works by reducing the amount of HIV in your body. 
This will improve your immune system and reduces the risk of developing illnesses linked to HIV 
infection. 
What it is used for? 
Darunavir is used to treat adults and children of 3 years of age and above, and at least 15 kilogram 
body weight who are infected by HIV and who have already used other antiretroviral medicines. 
Darunavir must be taken in combination with a low dose of ritonavir and other anti-HIV medicines. 
Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of medicines is best for you. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Darunavir Mylan  
Do not take Darunavir Mylan 
- 
if you are allergic to darunavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 
6) or to ritonavir. 
if you have severe liver problems. Ask your doctor if you are unsure about the severity of your 
liver disease. Some additional tests might be necessary. 
- 
Do not combine Darunavir Mylan with any of the following medicines 
If you are taking any of these, ask your doctor about switching to another medicine. 
Medicine 
Avanafil 
Astemizole or terfenadine 
Triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) midazolam 
Cisapride 
Purpose of the medicine 
to treat erectile dysfunction 
to treat allergy symptoms 
to help you sleep and/or relieve anxiety 
to treat some stomach conditions 
170 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicine 
Colchicine (if you have kidney and/or liver 
problems) 
Lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapineor sertindole 
Ergot alkaloids like ergotamine, 
dihydroergotamine, ergometrine and 
methylergonovine 
Amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine, 
quinidine, ranolazine 
Lovastatin, simvastatin and lomitapide 
Rifampicin 
The combination product lopinavir/ritonavir 
Elbasvir/grazoprevir 
Alfuzosin 
Sildenafil 
Ticagrelor 
Naloxegol 
Dapoxetine 
Domperidone 
Purpose of the medicine 
to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever 
to treat psychiatric conditions 
to treat migraine headaches 
to treat certain heart disorders e.g. abnormal heart 
beat 
to lower cholesterol levels 
to treat some infections such as tuberculosis 
this anti-HIV medicine belongs to the same class as 
Darunavir Mylan 
to treat hepatitis C infection 
to treat enlarged prostate 
to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation 
to help stop the clumping of platelets in the 
treatment of patients with a history of a heart attack 
to treat opioid induced constipation 
to treat premature ejaculation 
to treat nausea and vomiting 
Do not combine darunavir with products that contain St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Darunavir Mylan. 
Darunavir is not a cure for HIV infection.  
People taking darunavir may still develop infections or other illnesses associated with HIV infection. 
You must keep in regular contact with your doctor. 
People taking darunavir may develop a skin rash. Infrequently a rash may become severe or 
potentially life-threatening. Please contact your doctor whenever you develop a rash. 
In patients taking darunavir and raltegravir (for HIV infection), rashes (generally mild or moderate) 
may occur more frequently than in patients taking either medicine separately. 
Tell your doctor about your situation BEFORE and DURING your treatment 
Make sure that you check the following points and tell your doctor if any of these apply to you. 
- 
Tell your doctor if you have had problems with your liver before, including hepatitis B or C 
infection. Your doctor may evaluate how severe your liver disease is before deciding if you can 
take darunavir. 
Tell your doctor if you have diabetes. Darunavir might increase sugar levels in the blood. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any symptoms of infection (for example enlarged 
lymph nodes and fever). In some patients with advanced HIV infection and a history of 
opportunistic infection, signs and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may 
occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an 
improvement in the body’s immune response, enabling the body to fight infections that may 
have been present with no obvious symptoms. 
In addition to the opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when 
the immune system attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines 
for the treatment of your HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after 
the start of treatment. If you notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as 
muscle weakness, weakness beginning in the hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of 
- 
- 
- 
171 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
the body, palpitations, tremor or hyperactivity, please inform your doctor immediately to seek 
necessary treatment. 
Tell your doctor if you have haemophilia. Darunavir might increase the risk of bleeding. 
Tell your doctor if you are allergic to sulphonamides (e.g. used to treat certain infections). 
Tell your doctor if you notice any musculoskeletal problems. Some patients taking 
combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called osteonecrosis (death of 
bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of combination antiretroviral 
therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe immunosuppression, higher body mass 
index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for developing this disease. Signs of 
osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches and pains (especially of the hip, knee and shoulder) and 
difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please inform your doctor. 
Elderly 
Darunavir has only been used in limited numbers of patients 65 years or older. If you belong to this 
age group, please discuss with your doctor if you can use Darunavir Mylan. 
Children 
Darunavir is not for use in children younger than 3 years of age or weighing less than 15 kilograms. 
Other medicines and Darunavir Mylan 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines. 
There are some medicines that you must not combine with darunavir. These are mentioned above 
under the heading ‘Do not combine Darunavir Mylan with any of the following medicines:’ 
In most cases, darunavir can be combined with anti-HIV medicines belonging to another class [e.g. 
NRTIs (nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors), NNRTIs (non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors), CCR5 antagonists and FIs (fusion inhibitors)]. Darunavir with ritonavir has not been tested 
with all PIs (protease inhibitors) and must not be used with other HIV PIs. In some cases dosage of 
other medicines might need to be changed. Therefore always tell your doctor if you take other anti- 
HIV medicines and follow your doctor’s instruction carefully on which medicines can be combined. 
The effects of darunavir might be reduced if you take any of the following products. Tell your doctor 
if you take: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Phenobarbital, phenytoin (to prevent seizures) 
Dexamethasone (corticosteroid) 
Efavirenz (HIV infection) 
Rifapentine, rifabutin (medicines to treat some infections such as tuberculosis) 
Saquinavir (HIV infection). 
The effects of other medicines might be influenced if you take darunavir and your doctor might want 
to do some additional blood tests. Tell your doctor if you take: 
- 
Amlodipine, diltiazem, disopyramide, carvedilol, felodipine, flecainide, lidocaine, metoprolol, 
mexiletine, nifedipine, nicardipine, propafenone, timolol, verapamil (for heart disease) as the 
therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines may be increased. 
Apixaban, dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel (to reduce 
clotting of the blood) as their therapeutic effect or side effects may be altered. 
Oestrogen-based hormonal contraceptives and hormonal replacement therapy. Darunavir might 
reduce its effectiveness. When used for birth control, alternative methods of non-hormonal 
contraception are recommended. 
Ethinylestradiol/drospirenone. Darunavir might increase the risk for elevated potassium levels 
by drospirenone. 
Atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin (to lower cholesterol levels). The risk of muscle damage 
might be increased. Your doctor will evaluate which cholesterol lowering regimen is best for 
your specific situation. 
Clarithromycin (antibiotic) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
172 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Ciclosporin, everolimus, tacrolimus, sirolimus (for dampening down your immune system) as the 
therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines might be increased.  
Corticosteroids including betamethasone, budesonide, fluticasone, mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone. These medicines are used to treat allergies, asthma, inflammatory bowel 
diseases, inflammatory conditions of the skin, eyes, joints and muscles and other inflammatory 
conditions. These medicines are generally taken orally, inhaled, injected or applied to the skin. 
If alternatives cannot be used, its use should only take place after medical evaluation and under 
close monitoring by your doctor for corticosteroid side effects. 
Buprenorphine/naloxone (medicines to treat opioid dependence) 
Salmeterol (medicine to treat asthma) 
Artemether/lumefantrine (a combination medicine to treat malaria) 
Dasatinib, everolimus, irinotecan, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine (to treat cancer) 
Sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil (for erectile dysfunction or to treat a heart and lung disorder 
called pulmonary arterial hypertension) 
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir (to treat hepatitis C infection) 
Fentanyl, oxycodone, tramadol (to treat pain) 
Fesoterodine, solifenacin (to treat urologic disorders). 
Your doctor might want to do some blood tests and the dosage of other medicines might need to be 
changed since either their own or darunavir’s therapeutic effect or side effects may be influenced when 
combined. 
Tell your doctor if you take: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, warfarin (to reduce clotting of the blood) 
Alfentanil (injectable strong and short-acting painkiller that is used for surgical procedures) 
Digoxin (to treat certain heart disorders) 
Clarithromycin (antibiotic) 
Itraconazole, isavuconazole, fluconazole, posaconazole, clotrimazole (to treat fungal 
infections). Voriconazole should only be taken after medical evaluation. 
Rifabutin (against bacterial infections) 
Sildenafil, vardenafil, tadalafil (for erectile dysfunction or high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation) 
Amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline, paroxetine, sertraline, trazodone (to treat 
depression and anxiety) 
Maraviroc (to treat HIV infection) 
Methadone (to treat opiate dependence) 
Carbamazepine, clonazepam (to prevent seizures or to treat certain types of nerve pain) 
Colchicine (to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever) 
Bosentan (to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary circulation) 
Buspirone, clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam, flurazepam, midazolam when used as injection, 
zolpidem (sedative agents) 
Perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine (to treat psychiatric conditions). 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
This is not a complete list of medicines. Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines that you are 
taking. 
Darunavir Mylan with food and drink 
See section 3 ‘How to take Darunavir Mylan. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor immediately if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant. Pregnant women 
must not take darunavir with ritonavir unless specifically directed by the doctor. Pregnant women 
should not take darunavir with cobicistat. 
Because of the potential for side effects in breast-fed infants, women should not breast-feed if they are 
receiving Darunavir Mylan. 
173 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed 
on to the baby in breast milk. If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should 
discuss it with your doctor as soon as possible. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not operate machines or drive if you feel dizzy after taking Darunavir Mylan. 
Darunavir Mylan contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium- 
free’. 
3. 
How to take Darunavir Mylan 
Always use this medicine exactly as described in this leaflet or as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has 
told you. Check with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
Even if you feel better, do not stop taking Darunavir Mylan and ritonavir without talking to your 
doctor. 
After therapy has been initiated, the dose or dosage form must not be changed or therapy must not be 
stopped without instruction of the doctor. 
Dose for adults who have not taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine 
this) 
You will require a different dose of darunavir which cannot be administered with these 600 milligram 
tablets. Other strengths of Darunavir Mylan are available. 
Dose for adults who have taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine this) 
The dose is either: 
- 
600 milligram darunavir (2 tablets containing 300 milligram of darunavir or 1 tablet containing 
600 milligram of darunavir) together with 100 milligram ritonavir twice daily. 
OR 
800 milligram darunavir (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of darunavir or 1 tablet containing 
800 milligram of darunavir) together with 100 milligram ritonavir once daily. Darunavir Mylan 
400 milligram and 800 milligram tablets are only to be used to construct the once daily 800 
milligram regimen. 
- 
Please discuss with your doctor which dose is right for you. 
Instructions for adults 
- 
Take darunavir always together with ritonavir. Darunavir cannot work properly without 
ritonavir. 
In the morning, take one 600 milligram darunavir tablet together with 100 milligram ritonavir. 
In the evening, take one 600 milligram darunavir tablet together with 100 milligram ritonavir. 
Take darunavir with food. Darunavir cannot work properly without food. The type of food is not 
important. 
Swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk. 
Darunavir Mylan 75 milligram and 150 milligram tablets have been developed for use in 
children, but can also be used in adults in some cases. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Dose for children of 3 years of age and above, weighing at least 15 kilograms who have not taken 
antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this) 
The doctor will work out the right once daily dose based on the weight of the child (see table below). 
This dose must not exceed the recommended adult dose, which is 800 milligram darunavir together 
with 100 milligram ritonavir once a day. 
The doctor will inform you on how much Darunavir Mylan tablets and how much ritonavir (capsules, 
tablets or solution) the child must take. 
174 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Weight 
between 15 and 30 kilograms 
between 30 and 40 kilograms 
more than 40 kilograms 
One darunavir dose is 
One ritonavira dose is 
600 milligram 
675 milligram 
800 milligram 
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
a ritonavir oral solution: 80 milligram per milliliter 
Dose for children of 3 years of age and above, weighing at least 15 kilograms who have taken 
antiretroviral medicines before (your child’s doctor will determine this) 
The doctor will work out the right dose based on the weight of the child (see table below). The doctor 
will determine if once daily dosing or twice daily dosing is appropriate for the child. This dose must 
not exceed the recommended adult dose, which is 600 milligram darunavir together with 
100 milligram of ritonavir two times per day or 800 milligram darunavir together with 100 milligram 
ritonavir once a day. 
The doctor will inform you on how many Darunavir Mylan tablets and how much ritonavir (capsules, 
tablets or solution) the child must take. Tablets of lower strengths are available to construct the 
appropriate dosing regimen. 
Other forms of this medicine may be more suitable for children: ask your doctor or pharmacist.  
Twice daily dosing 
Weight 
between 15 and 30 kilograms 
between 30 and 40 kilograms 
more than 40 kilograms* 
One dose is 
375 milligram darunavir + 50 milligram ritonavir 
twice a day 
450 milligram darunavir + 60 milligram ritonavir 
twice a day 
600 milligram darunavir + 100 milligram 
ritonavir twice a day 
*  For children aged 12 or more and weighing at least 40 kilograms, your child’s doctor will determine if Darunavir Mylan 
800 milligram once daily dosing may be used. This cannot be administered with these 600 milligram tablets. Other 
strengths of Darunavir Mylan are available. 
Once daily dosing 
Weight 
between 15 and 30 kilograms 
between 30 and 40 kilograms 
more than 40 kilograms 
One darunavir dose is 
600 milligram 
675 milligram 
800 milligram 
a ritonavir oral solution: 80 milligram per milliliter 
One ritonavira dose is 
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
100 milligram 
Instructions for children 
- 
The child must take darunavir always together with ritonavir. Darunavir cannot work properly 
without ritonavir. 
The child must take the appropriate doses of darunavir and ritonavir two times per day or once a 
day. If prescribed darunavir twice daily the child must take one dose in the morning, and one 
dose in the evening. Your child’s doctor will determine the appropriate dosing regimen for your 
child. 
The child must take darunavir with food. Darunavir cannot work properly without food. The 
type of food is not important. 
The child must swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk. 
Darunavir Mylan 75 mg and 150 mg tablets have been developed for use in children weighing 
less than 40 kilograms, but can also be used in adults in some cases. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If you take more Darunavir Mylan than you should 
Contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately. 
175 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you forget to take Darunavir Mylan 
If you notice within 6 hours, you must take your missed dose immediately. Always take with 
ritonavir and food. If you notice after 6 hours, then skip the intake and take the next doses as usual. 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you vomit after taking Darunavir Mylan and ritonavir 
If you vomit within 4 hours of taking the medicine, another dose of Darunavir Mylan and ritonavir 
should be taken with food as soon as possible. If you vomit more than 4 hours after taking the 
medicine, then you do not need to take another dose of Darunavir Mylan and ritonavir until the next 
regularly scheduled time. 
Contact your doctor if you are uncertain about what to do if you miss a dose or vomit. 
Do not stop taking Darunavir Mylan without talking to your doctor first 
Anti-HIV medicine may make you feel better. Even when you feel better, do not stop taking Darunavir 
Mylan. Talk to your doctor first. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes. 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor if you develop any of the following side effects 
Liver problems that may occasionally be severe have been reported. Your doctor should do blood tests 
before you start darunavir. If you have chronic hepatitis B or C infection, your doctor should check 
your blood tests more often because you have an increased chance of developing liver problems. Talk 
to your doctor about the signs and symptoms of liver problems. These may include yellowing of your 
skin or whites of your eyes, dark (tea coloured) urine, pale coloured stools (bowel movements), 
nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, or pain, aching, or pain and discomfort on your right side below 
your ribs. 
Skin rash (more often when used in combination with raltegravir), itching. The rash is usually mild to 
moderate. A skin rash might also be a symptom of a rare severe situation. It is therefore important to 
talk to your doctor if you develop a rash. Your doctor will advise you how to deal with your symptoms 
or whether darunavir must be stopped. 
Other severe side effects were diabetes (common), and inflammation of the pancreas (uncommon). 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
diarrhoea. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain or distension, dyspepsia, flatulence 
headache, tiredness, dizziness, drowsiness, numbness, tingling or pain in hands or feet, loss of 
strength, difficulty falling asleep. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
- 
chest pain, changes in electrocardiogram, rapid heart beating 
decreased or abnormal skin sensitivity, pins and needles, attention disturbance, loss of memory, 
problems with your balance 
difficulty breathing, cough, nosebleed, throat irritation 
inflammation of the stomach or mouth, heartburn, retching, dry mouth, discomfort of the 
abdomen, constipation, belching 
- 
- 
176 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
kidney failure, kidney stones, difficult discharge of urine, frequent or excessive passage of 
urine, sometimes at night 
urticaria, severe swelling of the skin and other tissues (most often the lips or the eyes), eczema, 
excessive sweating, night sweats, hair loss, acne, scaly skin, colouration of nails 
muscle pain, muscle cramps or weakness, pain in extremity, osteoporosis 
slowing down of the thyroid gland function. This can be seen in a blood test. 
high blood pressure, flushing 
red or dry eyes 
fever, swelling of lower limbs due to fluids, malaise, irritability, pain 
symptoms of infection, herpes simplex 
erectile dysfunction, enlargement of breasts 
sleeping problems, sleepiness, depression, anxiety, abnormal dreams, decrease in sexual drive 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
- 
a reaction called DRESS [severe rash, which may be accompanied by fever, fatigue, swelling of 
the face or lymph glands, increase of eosinophils (type of white blood cells), effects on liver, 
kidney or lung] 
heart attack, slow heart beating, palpitations 
visual disturbance 
chills, feeling abnormal 
a feeling of confusion or disorientation, altered mood, restlessness 
fainting, epileptic fits, changes or loss of taste 
mouth sores, vomiting blood, inflammation of the lips, dry lips, coated tongue 
running nose 
skin lesions, dry skin 
stiffness of muscles or joints, joint pain with or without inflammation 
changes in some values of your blood cells or chemistry. These can be seen in the results of 
blood and/or urine tests. Your doctor will explain these to you. Examples are: increase in some 
white blood cells 
darunavir crystals in the kidney causing kidney disease. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Some side effects are typical for anti-HIV medicines in the same family as darunavir. These are: 
muscle pain, tenderness or weakness. On rare occasions, these muscle disorders have been 
- 
serious. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Darunavir Mylan 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton, blister and on the bottle 
after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
For bottles: Once opened, use within 100 days. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away any medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
177 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information  
What Darunavir Mylan contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is darunavir. Each tablet contains 600 milligram of darunavir. 
The other ingredients are colloidal anhydrous silica, cellulose microcrystalline, crospovidone, 
sodium starch glycolate, hypromellose, magnesium stearate. The film-coating contains 
polyvinyl alcohol partially hydrolysed, titanium dioxide (E171), macrogol and talc. 
What Darunavir Mylan looks like and contents of the pack 
Darunavir Mylan 600 mg film-coated tablets are white to off-white, oval shaped, with two curved 
sides, marked with M on one side and DV5 on the other side. 
Darunavir Mylan 600 mg film-coated tablets are available in blister packs containing 30 and 60 tablets 
and in plastic bottles containing 30, 60 and 90 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15, 
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
Manufacturers 
Mylan Hungary Kft 
H-2900 Komárom, Mylan utca 1  
Hungary 
McDermott Laboratories Limited trading as Gerard Laboratories  
35/36 Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Grange Road, Dublin 13  
Ireland 
Mylan Germany GmbH 
Zweigniederlassung Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe, Benzstrasse 1  
Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe 
Hessen, 61352  
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Mylan bvba/sprl 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
България 
Майлан ЕООД 
Тел: +359 2 44 55 400 
Česká republika 
Viatris CZ s.r.o.  
Tel: + 420 222 004 400 
Lietuva 
Mylan Healthcare UAB  
Tel: +370 5 205 1288 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Mylan bvba/sprl 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
(Belgique/Belgien) 
Magyarország 
Mylan EPD Kft. 
Tel.: + 36 1 465 2100 
178 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Danmark 
Viatris ApS 
Tlf: +45 28 11 69 32 
Deutschland 
Viatris Healthcare GmbH  
Tel: +49 800 0700 800 
Malta 
V.J. Salomone Pharma Ltd  
Tel: + 356 21 22 01 74 
Nederland 
Mylan BV 
Tel: +31 (0)20 426 3300 
Eesti 
BGP Products Switzerland GmbH Eesti filiaal 
Tel: + 372 6363 052 
Norge 
Viatris AS 
Tlf: + 47 66 75 33 00 
Ελλάδα 
Generics Pharma Hellas ΕΠΕ  
Τηλ: +30 210 993 6410 
España 
Viatris Pharmaceuticals, S.L.U. 
Tel: + 34 900 102 712 
France 
Viatris Santé  
Tél: +33 4 37 25 75 00 
Hrvatska 
Viatris Hrvatska d.o.o.  
Tel: +385 1 23 50 599 
Ireland 
Mylan Ireland Limited  
Tel: +353 1 8711600 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Mylan Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: + 39 02 612 46921 
Κύπρος 
Varnavas Hadjipanayis Ltd 
Τηλ: + 357 2220 7700 
Latvija 
Mylan Healthcare SIA  
Tel: +371 676 055 80 
Österreich 
Arcana Arzneimittel GmbH  
Tel: +43 1 416 2418 
Polska 
Mylan Healthcare Sp. z o.o.  
Tel.: + 48 22 546 64 00 
Portugal 
Mylan, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 214 127 200 
România 
BGP Products SRL  
Tel: +40 372 579 000 
Slovenija 
Viatris d.o.o.  
Tel: + 386 1 23 63 180 
Slovenská republika 
Viatris Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 32 199 100 
Suomi/Finland 
Viatris Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 20 720 9555 
Sverige 
Viatris AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 630 19 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Mylan IRE Healthcare Limited  
Tel: +353 18711600 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}.  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
179 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Darunavir Mylan 800 mg film-coated tablets 
darunavir 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Darunavir Mylan is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Darunavir Mylan 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Darunavir Mylan 
Possible side effects 
How to store Darunavir Mylan 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Darunavir Mylan is and what it is used for  
What is Darunavir Mylan? 
Darunavir Mylan contains the active substance darunavir. Darunavir is an antiretroviral medicine used 
in the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection. It belongs to a group of 
medicines called protease inhibitors. Darunavir works by reducing the amount of HIV in your body. 
This will improve your immune system and reduces the risk of developing illnesses linked to HIV 
infection. 
What it is used for? 
Darunavir is used to treat adults and children (3 years of age and above, at least 40 kilograms body 
weight) who are infected by HIV and 
- 
- 
who have not used antiretroviral medicines before. 
in certain patients who have used antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine 
this). 
Darunavir must be taken in combination with a low dose of cobicistat or ritonavir and other anti-HIV 
medicines. Your doctor will discuss with you which combination of medicines is best for you. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Darunavir Mylan  
Do not take Darunavir Mylan 
- 
if you are allergic to darunavir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 
6) or to cobicistat or ritonavir. 
if you have severe liver problems. Ask your doctor if you are unsure about the severity of your 
liver disease. Some additional tests might be necessary. 
- 
180 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not combine Darunavir Mylan with any of the following medicines 
If you are taking any of these, ask your doctor about switching to another medicine. 
Medicine 
Avanafil 
Astemizole or terfenadine 
Triazolam and oral (taken by mouth) midazolam 
Cisapride 
Colchicine (if you have kidney and/or liver 
problems) 
Lurasidone, pimozide, quetiapine or sertindole 
Ergot alkaloids like ergotamine, 
dihydroergotamine, ergometrine and 
methylergonovine 
Amiodarone, bepridil, dronedarone, ivabradine, 
quinidine, ranolazine 
Lovastatin, simvastatin and lomitapide 
Rifampicin 
The combination product lopinavir/ritonavir 
Elbasvir/grazoprevir 
Alfuzosin 
Sildenafil 
Ticagrelor 
Naloxegol 
Dapoxetine 
Domperidone 
Purpose of the medicine 
to treat erectile dysfunction 
to treat allergy symptoms 
to help you sleep and/or relieve anxiety 
to treat some stomach conditions 
to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever 
to treat psychiatric conditions 
to treat migraine headaches 
to treat certain heart disorders e.g. abnormal heart 
beat 
to lower cholesterol levels 
to treat some infections such as tuberculosis 
this anti-HIV medicine belongs to the same class as 
Darunavir Mylan 
to treat hepatitis C infection 
to treat enlarged prostate 
to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation 
to help stop the clumping of platelets in the 
treatment of patients with a history of a heart attack 
to treat opioid induced constipation 
to treat premature ejaculation 
to treat nausea and vomiting 
Do not combine darunavir with products that contain St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Darunavir Mylan. 
Darunavir is not a cure for HIV infection.  
People taking darunavir may still develop infections or other illnesses associated with HIV infection. 
You must keep in regular contact with your doctor. 
People taking darunavir may develop a skin rash. Infrequently a rash may become severe or 
potentially life-threatening. Please contact your doctor whenever you develop a rash. 
In patients taking darunavir and raltegravir (for HIV infection), rashes (generally mild or moderate) 
may occur more frequently than in patients taking either medicine separately. 
Tell your doctor about your situation BEFORE and DURING your treatment 
Make sure that you check the following points and tell your doctor if any of these apply to you. 
- 
Tell your doctor if you have had problems with your liver before, including hepatitis B or C 
infection. Your doctor may evaluate how severe your liver disease is before deciding if you can 
take darunavir. 
Tell your doctor if you have diabetes. Darunavir might increase sugar levels in the blood. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any symptoms of infection (for example enlarged 
lymph nodes and fever). In some patients with advanced HIV infection and a history of 
opportunistic infection, signs and symptoms of inflammation from previous infections may 
occur soon after anti-HIV treatment is started. It is believed that these symptoms are due to an 
- 
- 
181 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
improvement in the body’s immune response, enabling the body to fight infections that may 
have been present with no obvious symptoms. 
In addition to the opportunistic infections, autoimmune disorders (a condition that occurs when 
the immune system attacks healthy body tissue) may also occur after you start taking medicines 
for the treatment of your HIV infection. Autoimmune disorders may occur many months after 
the start of treatment. If you notice any symptoms of infection or other symptoms such as 
muscle weakness, weakness beginning in the hands and feet and moving up towards the trunk of 
the body, palpitations, tremor or hyperactivity, please inform your doctor immediately to seek 
necessary treatment. 
Tell your doctor if you have haemophilia. Darunavir might increase the risk of bleeding. 
Tell your doctor if you are allergic to sulphonamides (e.g. used to treat certain infections). 
Tell your doctor if you notice any musculoskeletal problems. Some patients taking 
combination antiretroviral therapy may develop a bone disease called osteonecrosis (death of 
bone tissue caused by loss of blood supply to the bone). The length of combination antiretroviral 
therapy, corticosteroid use, alcohol consumption, severe immunosuppression, higher body mass 
index, among others, may be some of the many risk factors for developing this disease. Signs of 
osteonecrosis are joint stiffness, aches and pains (especially of the hip, knee and shoulder) and 
difficulty in movement. If you notice any of these symptoms please inform your doctor. 
Elderly 
Darunavir has only been used in limited numbers of patients 65 years or older. If you belong to this 
age group, please discuss with your doctor if you can use Darunavir Mylan. 
Children and adolescents 
Darunavir Mylan 800 mg tablets is not for use in children younger than 3 years of age or weighing less 
than 40 kilograms. 
Other medicines and Darunavir Mylan 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines. 
There are some medicines that you must not combine with darunavir. These are mentioned above 
under the heading ‘Do not combine Darunavir Mylan with any of the following medicines:’ 
In most cases, darunavir can be combined with anti-HIV medicines belonging to another class [e.g. 
NRTIs (nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors), NNRTIs (non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors), CCR5 antagonists and FIs (fusion inhibitors)]. Darunavir with cobicistat or ritonavir has 
not been tested with all PIs (protease inhibitors) and must not be used with other HIV PIs. In some 
cases dosage of other medicines might need to be changed. Therefore always tell your doctor if you 
take other anti-HIV medicines and follow your doctor’s instruction carefully on which medicines can 
be combined. 
The effects of darunavir might be reduced if you take any of the following products. Tell your doctor 
if you take: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Phenobarbital, phenytoin (to prevent seizures) 
Dexamethasone (corticosteroid) 
Efavirenz (HIV infection) 
Rifapentine, rifabutin (medicines to treat some infections such as tuberculosis) 
Saquinavir (HIV infection). 
The effects of other medicines might be influenced if you take darunavir and your doctor might want 
to do some additional blood tests. Tell your doctor if you take: 
- 
Amlodipine, diltiazem, disopyramide, carvedilol, felodipine, flecainide, lidocaine, metoprolol, 
mexiletine, nifedipine, nicardipine, propafenone, timolol, verapamil (for heart disease) as the 
therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines may be increased. 
Apixaban, dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, rivaroxaban, warfarin, clopidogrel (to reduce 
clotting of the blood) as their therapeutic effect or side effects may be altered. 
- 
182 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Oestrogen-based hormonal contraceptives and hormonal replacement therapy. Darunavir might 
reduce its effectiveness. When used for birth control, alternative methods of non-hormonal 
contraception are recommended. 
Ethinylestradiol/drospirenone. Darunavir might increase the risk for elevated potassium levels 
by drospirenone. 
Atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin (to lower cholesterol levels). The risk of muscle damage 
might be increased. Your doctor will evaluate which cholesterol lowering regimen is best for 
your specific situation. 
Clarithromycin (antibiotic) 
Ciclosporin, everolimus, tacrolimus, sirolimus (for dampening down your immune system) as the 
therapeutic effect or side effects of these medicines might be increased.  
Corticosteroids including betamethasone, budesonide, fluticasone, mometasone, prednisone, 
triamcinolone. These medicines are used to treat allergies, asthma, inflammatory bowel 
diseases, inflammatory conditions of the skin, eyes, joints and muscles and other inflammatory 
conditions. These medicines are generally taken orally, inhaled, injected or applied to the skin. 
If alternatives cannot be used, its use should only take place after medical evaluation and under 
close monitoring by your doctor for corticosteroid side effects. 
Buprenorphine/naloxone (medicines to treat opioid dependence) 
Salmeterol (medicine to treat asthma) 
Artemether/lumefantrine (a combination medicine to treat malaria) 
Dasatinib, everolimus, irinotecan, nilotinib, vinblastine, vincristine (to treat cancer) 
Sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil (for erectile dysfunction or to treat a heart and lung disorder 
called pulmonary arterial hypertension) 
Glecaprevir/pibrentasvir (to treat hepatitis C infection) 
Fentanyl, oxycodone, tramadol (to treat pain) 
Fesoterodine, solifenacin (to treat urologic disorders). 
Your doctor might want to do some additional tests and the dosage of other medicines might need to 
be changed since either their own or darunavir’s therapeutic effect or side effects may be influenced 
when combined. 
Tell your doctor if you take: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Dabigatran etexilate, edoxaban, warfarin (to reduce clotting of the blood) 
Alfentanil (injectable strong and short-acting painkiller that is used for surgical procedures) 
Digoxin (to treat certain heart disorders) 
Clarithromycin (antibiotic) 
Itraconazole, isavuconazole, fluconazole, posaconazole, clotrimazole (to treat fungal 
infections). Voriconazole should only be taken after medical evaluation. 
Rifabutin (against bacterial infections) 
Sildenafil, vardenafil, tadalafil (for erectile dysfunction or high blood pressure in the pulmonary 
circulation) 
Amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine, nortriptyline, paroxetine, sertraline, trazodone (to treat 
depression and anxiety) 
Maraviroc (to treat HIV infection) 
Methadone (to treat opiate dependence) 
Carbamazepine, clonazepam (to prevent seizures or to treat certain types of nerve pain) 
Colchicine (to treat gout or familial Mediterranean fever) 
Bosentan (to treat high blood pressure in the pulmonary circulation) 
Buspirone, clorazepate, diazepam, estazolam, flurazepam, midazolam when used as injection, 
zolpidem (sedative agents) 
Perphenazine, risperidone, thioridazine (to treat psychiatric conditions) 
Metformin (to treat type 2 diabetes). 
- 
- 
This is not a complete list of medicines. Tell your healthcare provider about all medicines that you are 
taking. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Darunavir Mylan with food and drink 
See section 3 ‘How to take Darunavir Mylan. 
183 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor immediately if you are pregnant or planning to become pregnant. Pregnant women 
must not take darunavir with ritonavir unless specifically directed by the doctor. Pregnant women 
should not take darunavir with cobicistat. 
Because of the potential for side effects in breast-fed infants, women should not breast-feed if they are 
receiving Darunavir Mylan. 
Breast-feeding is not recommended in women living with HIV because HIV infection can be passed 
on to the baby in breast milk. If you are breast-feeding, or thinking about breast-feeding, you should 
discuss it with your doctor as soon as possible. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not operate machines or drive if you feel dizzy after taking darunavir. 
Darunavir Mylan contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium- 
free’. 
3. 
How to take Darunavir Mylan 
Always use this medicine exactly as described in this leaflet or as your doctor, pharmacist or nurse has 
told you. Check with your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure. 
Even if you feel better, do not stop taking darunavir and cobicistat or ritonavir without talking to your 
doctor. 
After therapy has been initiated, the dose or dosage form must not be changed or therapy must not be 
stopped without instruction of the doctor. 
Darunavir Mylan 800 mg tablets are intended for once daily use only. 
Dose for adults who have not taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine 
this) 
The usual dose of darunavir is 800 milligram (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of darunavir or 1 
tablet containing 800 milligram of darunavir) once daily. 
You must take darunavir every day and always in combination with 150 milligram of cobicistat or 100 
milligram of ritonavir and with food. Darunavir cannot work properly without cobicistat or ritonavir 
and food. You must eat a meal or a snack within 30 minutes prior to taking your darunavir 
and cobicistat or ritonavir. The type of food is not important. Even if you feel better, do not stop taking 
darunavir and cobicistat or ritonavir without talking to your doctor. 
Instructions for adults 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Take one 800 milligram tablet at the same time, once a day, every day. 
Take darunavir always together with 150 milligram of cobicistat or 100 milligram of ritonavir. 
Take darunavir with food. 
Swallow the tablet with a drink such as water or milk. 
Take your other HIV medicines used in combination with darunavir and cobicistat or ritonavir 
as recommended by your doctor. 
Dose for adults who have taken antiretroviral medicines before (your doctor will determine this) 
The dose is either: 
- 
800 milligram darunavir (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of darunavir or 1 tablet containing 
800 milligram of darunavir) together with 150 milligram cobicistat or 100 milligram ritonavir 
once daily. 
OR 
184 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
600 milligram darunavir (2 tablets containing 300 milligram of darunavir or 1 tablet containing 
600 milligram of darunavir) together with 100 milligram ritonavir twice daily. 
Please discuss with your doctor which dose is right for you. 
Dose for children 3 years of age and above with ritonavir, and 12 years of age and above with 
cobicistat, weighing more than 40 kilograms who have not taken antiretroviral medicines before 
(your child’s doctor will determine this) 
- 
The usual dose of darunavir is 800 milligram (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of darunavir or 
1 tablet containing 800 milligram of darunavir) together with 100 milligram ritonavir or 
150 milligram of cobicistat once daily. 
Dose for children 3 years of age and above with ritonavir, and 12 years of age and above with 
cobicistat, weighing more than 40 kilograms who have taken antiretroviral medicines before 
(your child’s doctor will determine this) 
The dose is either: 
- 
800 milligram darunavir (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of darunavir or 1 tablet containing 
800 milligram of darunavir) together with 100 milligram ritonavir or 150 milligram of cobicistat 
once daily. 
OR 
600 milligram darunavir (2 tablets containing 300 milligram of darunavir or 1 tablet containing 
600 milligram of darunavir) together with 100 milligram ritonavir twice daily. 
- 
Please discuss with your doctor which dose is right for you. 
Instructions for children 3 years of age and above with ritonavir, and 12 years of age and above 
with cobicistat, weighing more than 40 kilograms 
- 
Take 800 milligram darunavir (2 tablets containing 400 milligram of Darunavir Mylan or 1 
tablet containing 800 milligram of Darunavir Mylan) at the same time, once a day, every day. 
Take darunavir always together with 100 milligram of ritonavir or 150 milligram of cobicistat. 
Take darunavir with food. 
Swallow the tablets with a drink such as water or milk. 
Take your other HIV medicines used in combination with darunavir and ritonavir or cobicistat 
as recommended by your doctor. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If you take more Darunavir Mylan than you should 
Contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately. 
If you forget to take Darunavir Mylan 
If you notice within 12 hours, you must take the tablets immediately. Always take with cobicistat or 
ritonavir and food. If you notice after 12 hours, then skip the intake and take the next doses as usual. 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you vomit after taking Darunavir Mylan and cobicistat or ritonavir 
If you vomit within 4 hours of taking the medicine, another dose of Darunavir Mylan and cobicistat 
or ritonavir should be taken with food as soon as possible. If you vomit more than 4 hours after 
taking the medicine, then you do not need to take another dose of Darunavir Mylan and cobicistat or 
ritonavir until the next regularly scheduled time. 
Contact your doctor if you are uncertain about what to do if you miss a dose or vomit. 
Do not stop taking Darunavir Mylan without talking to your doctor first 
Anti-HIV medicines may make you feel better. Even when you feel better, do not stop taking 
Darunavir Mylan. Talk to your doctor first. 
185 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
During HIV therapy there may be an increase in weight and in levels of blood lipids and glucose. This 
is partly linked to restored health and life style, and in the case of blood lipids sometimes to the HIV 
medicines themselves. Your doctor will test for these changes. 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor if you develop any of the following side effects 
Liver problems that may occasionally be severe have been reported. Your doctor should do blood tests 
before you start darunavir. If you have chronic hepatitis B or C infection, your doctor should check 
your blood tests more often because you have an increased chance of developing liver problems. Talk 
to your doctor about the signs and symptoms of liver problems. These may include yellowing of your 
skin or whites of your eyes, dark (tea coloured) urine, pale coloured stools (bowel movements), 
nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, or pain, aching, or pain and discomfort on your right side below 
your ribs. 
Skin rash (more often when used in combination with raltegravir), itching. The rash is usually mild to 
moderate. A skin rash might also be a symptom of a rare severe situation. It is therefore important to 
talk to your doctor if you develop a rash. Your doctor will advise you how to deal with your symptoms 
or whether darunavir must be stopped. 
Other severe side effects were diabetes (common), and inflammation of the pancreas (uncommon). 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
diarrhoea. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain or distension, dyspepsia, flatulence 
headache, tiredness, dizziness, drowsiness, numbness, tingling or pain in hands or feet, loss of 
strength, difficulty falling asleep. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
- 
chest pain, changes in electrocardiogram, rapid heart beating 
decreased or abnormal skin sensitivity, pins and needles, attention disturbance, loss of memory, 
problems with your balance 
difficulty breathing, cough, nosebleed, throat irritation 
inflammation of the stomach or mouth, heartburn, retching, dry mouth, discomfort of the 
abdomen, constipation, belching 
kidney failure, kidney stones, difficult discharge of urine, frequent or excessive passage of 
urine, sometimes at night 
urticaria, severe swelling of the skin and other tissues (most often the lips or the eyes), eczema, 
excessive sweating, night sweats, hair loss, acne, scaly skin, colouration of nails 
muscle pain, muscle cramps or weakness, pain in extremity, osteoporosis 
slowing down of the thyroid gland function. This can be seen in a blood test. 
high blood pressure, flushing 
red or dry eyes 
fever, swelling of lower limbs due to fluids, malaise, irritability, pain 
symptoms of infection, herpes simplex 
erectile dysfunction, enlargement of breasts 
sleeping problems, sleepiness, depression, anxiety, abnormal dreams, decrease in sexual drive 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
- 
a reaction called DRESS [severe rash, which may be accompanied by fever, fatigue, swelling of 
the face or lymph glands, increase of eosinophils (type of white blood cells), effects on liver, 
kidney or lung] 
186 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
heart attack, slow heart beating, palpitations 
visual disturbance 
chills, feeling abnormal 
a feeling of confusion or disorientation, altered mood, restlessness 
fainting, epileptic fits, changes or loss of taste 
mouth sores, vomiting blood, inflammation of the lips, dry lips, coated tongue 
running nose 
skin lesions, dry skin 
stiffness of muscles or joints, joint pain with or without inflammation 
changes in some values of your blood cells or chemistry. These can be seen in the results of 
blood and/or urine tests. Your doctor will explain these to you. Examples are: increase in some 
white blood cells 
darunavir crystals in the kidney causing kidney disease. 
Some side effects are typical for anti-HIV medicines in the same family as darunavir. These are: 
muscle pain, tenderness or weakness. On rare occasions, these muscle disorders have been 
- 
serious. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Darunavir Mylan 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton, blister and on the bottle 
after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
For blisters with plastic on one side and aluminium on the other: Do not store above 25°C. 
For blisters with aluminium on both sides: This medicine does not require any special storage 
conditions. 
For bottles: Once opened, use within 90 days. This medicine does not require any special storage 
conditons. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away any medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information  
What Darunavir Mylan contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is darunavir. Each tablet contains 800 milligram of darunavir. 
The other ingredients are colloidal anhydrous silica, cellulose microcrystalline, crospovidone, 
sodium starch glycolate, hypromellose, magnesium stearate. The film-coating contains 
polyvinyl alcohol partially hydrolysed, titanium dioxide (E171), macrogol and talc. 
What Darunavir Mylan looks like and contents of the pack 
Darunavir Mylan 800 mg film-coated tablets are white to off-white, oval shaped, with two curved 
sides, marked with M on one side and DV8 on the other side. 
187 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Darunavir Mylan 800 mg film-coated tablets are available in blister packs containing 30 tablets and in 
plastic bottles containing 30, 60 and 90 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited  
Damastown Industrial Park, Mulhuddart,  
Dublin 15, 
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
Manufacturers 
Mylan Hungary Kft 
H-2900 Komárom, Mylan utca 1  
Hungary 
McDermott Laboratories Limited trading as Gerard Laboratories  
35/36 Baldoyle Industrial Estate, Grange Road, Dublin 13  
Ireland 
Mylan Germany GmbH 
Zweigniederlassung Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe, Benzstrasse 1  
Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe 
Hessen, 61352  
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Mylan bvba/sprl 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
България 
Майлан ЕООД 
Тел: +359 2 44 55 400 
Česká republika 
Viatris CZ s.r.o.  
Tel: + 420 222 004 400 
Danmark 
Viatris ApS 
Tlf: +45 28 11 69 32 
Deutschland 
Viatris Healthcare GmbH  
Tel: +49 800 0700 800 
Lietuva 
Mylan Healthcare UAB 
Tel: +370 5 205 1288 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Mylan bvba/sprl 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
(Belgique/Belgien) 
Magyarország 
Mylan EPD Kft. 
Tel.: + 36 1 465 2100 
Malta 
V.J. Salomone Pharma Ltd  
Tel: + 356 21 22 01 74 
Nederland 
Mylan BV 
Tel: +31 (0)20 426 3300 
Eesti 
BGP Products Switzerland GmbH Eesti filiaal 
Tel: + 372 6363 052 
Norge 
Viatris AS 
Tlf: + 47 66 75 33 00 
188 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα 
Generics Pharma Hellas ΕΠΕ  
Τηλ: +30 210 993 6410 
España 
Viatris Pharmaceuticals, S.L.U. 
Tel: + 34 900 102 712 
France 
Viatris Santé  
Tél: +33 4 37 25 75 00 
Hrvatska 
Viatris Hrvatska d.o.o.  
Tel: +385 1 23 50 599 
Ireland 
Mylan Ireland Limited  
Tel: +353 1 8711600 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Mylan Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: + 39 02 612 46921 
Κύπρος 
Varnavas Hadjipanayis Ltd 
Τηλ: + 357 2220 7700 
Latvija 
Mylan Healthcare SIA  
Tel: +371 676 055 80 
Österreich 
Arcana Arzneimittel GmbH  
Tel: +43 1 416 2418 
Polska 
Mylan Healthcare Sp. z o.o.  
Tel.: + 48 22 546 64 00 
Portugal 
Mylan, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 214 127 200 
România 
BGP Products SRL  
Tel: +40 372 579 000 
Slovenija 
Viatris d.o.o.  
Tel: + 386 1 23 63 180 
Slovenská republika 
Viatris Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 32 199 100 
Suomi/Finland 
Viatris Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 20 720 9555 
Sverige 
Viatris AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 630 19 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Mylan IRE Healthcare Limited  
Tel: +353 18711600 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}.  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
189 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
