Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for Darunavir Mylan (darunavir) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Darunavir Mylan. The RMP details 
important risks of darunavir, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be 
obtained about darunavir's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Darunavir  Mylan's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how it should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Darunavir Mylan should be read in the context of all the information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Darunavir 
Mylan's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Darunavir Mylan is authorised for: 
Darunavir Mylan 75 mg, 150 mg, 300 mg and 600 mg film-coated tablets: 
Darunavir,  co-administered  with  low  dose  ritonavir  is  indicated  in  combination  with  other 
antiretroviral medicinal products for the treatment of patients with HIV-1 infection. 
Darunavir  Mylan  75  mg,  150mg,  300mg,  600mg  tablets  may  be  used  to  provide  suitable  dose 
regimens: 
•  For  the  treatment  of  HIV-1  infection  in  antiretroviral  treatment  (ART)-experienced  adult 
patients, including those that have been highly pre-treated. 
•  For the treatment of HIV-1 infection in paediatric patients from the age of 3 years and at least 
15 kg body weight. 
In deciding to initiate treatment with darunavir co-administered with low dose ritonavir, careful 
consideration should be given to the treatment history of the individual patient and the patterns of 
mutations associated with different agents. Genotypic or phenotypic testing (when available) and 
treatment history should guide the use of darunavir. 
Darunavir Mylan 400 mg and 800 mg film-coated tablets 
Darunavir,  co-administered with  cobicistat  is  indicated in  combination with  other antiretroviral 
medicinal  products  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with  human  immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV-1) 
infection.  
Darunavir  co-administered  with  cobicistat  is  indicated  in  combination  with  other  antiretroviral 
medicinal products for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV-1) infection in adults 
and adolescents (aged 12 years and older, weighing at least 40 kg).  
Darunavir Mylan 400mg and 800 mg tablets may be used to provide suitable dose regimens for 
the treatment of HIV-1 infection in adult and paediatric patients from the age of 3 years and at 
least  40 kg body weight who are:  
•  Antiretroviral therapy (ART)-naïve.  
•  ART-experienced with no darunavir resistance associated mutations (DRV-RAMs) and who 
have plasma HIV-1 RNA < 100,000 copies/ml and CD4+ cell count ≥ 100 cells x 106/l. In 
deciding  to  initiate  treatment  with  darunavir  in  such  ART-experienced  patients,  genotypic 
testing should guide the use of darunavir.  
It contains darunavir as the active substance and it is given orally.  
Further information about the evaluation of Darunavir Mylan’s benefits can be found in Darunavir 
Mylan’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under 
the  medicine’s  webpage  (https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/overview/darunavir-mylan-
epar-summary-public_en.pdf). 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the 
risks  
Important risks of Darunavir Mylan, together with measures to minimise such risks are outlined 
below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  events  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Darunavir Mylan is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information  
Important risks of Darunavir Mylan are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product  can be safely  taken by  patients. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Darunavir Mylan. Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is  currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine/use in special patient populations etc.); 
Summary of safety concerns 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks  None 
Important potential risks  None 
Missing information 
•  Long-term safety data in children from 3 to <6 years of age 
(Darunavir/Ritonavir) 
II.B Summary of important risks  
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Darunavir Mylan.  
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Darunavir Mylan. 
