PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary of Risk Management Plan for DARZALEX 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  DARZALEX®.  The  RMP  details 
important risks of DARZALEX, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information 
can be obtained about DARZALEX’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
DARZALEX’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  (PL)  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how DARZALEX should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for DARZALEX should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
DARZALEX’s RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What it is Used For 
DARZALEX 20 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion is authorized as monotherapy for the 
treatment  of  adult  patients  with  relapsed  and  refractory  multiple  myeloma.  DARZALEX 
20 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion is also indicated in combination with lenalidomide 
and dexamethasone, or bortezomib and dexamethasone, for the treatment of adult patients with 
multiple myeloma. DARZALEX 20 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion is also indicated 
in combination with bortezomib, melphalan, and prednisone, or lenalidomide and dexamethasone, 
for the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who are ineligible for 
autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) and  in combination with  bortezomib,  thalidomide, and 
dexamethasone for the treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who 
are eligible for ASCT. Refer to the SmPC for the full indication. It contains daratumumab as the 
active substance and it is given by intravenous infusion. 
DARZALEX 1,800 mg solution for injection is authorized as monotherapy for the treatment of 
adult patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma. DARZALEX 1,800 mg solution for 
injection is also indicated in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone, or bortezomib 
and  dexamethasone,  for  the  treatment  of  adult  patients  with  multiple  myeloma.  DARZALEX 
1,800 mg solution for injection is also indicated in combination with bortezomib, melphalan, and 
prednisone, or lenalidomide and dexamethasone, for the treatment of adult patients with newly 
diagnosed multiple myeloma who are ineligible for autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT), in 
combination with bortezomib, thalidomide, and dexamethasone for the treatment of adult patients 
with  newly  diagnosed  multiple  myeloma  who  are  eligible  for  ASCT,  and  in  combination  with 
pomalidomide and dexamethasone for the treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma who 
have  received  one  prior  therapy  containing  a  proteasome  inhibitor  and  lenalidomide  and  were 
lenalidomide  refractory,  or  who  have  received  at  least  two  prior  therapies  that  included 
lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor and have demonstrated disease progression on or after 
the last therapy in combination with pomalidomide and dexamethasone for the treatment of adult 
patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior line of 
therapy  including  lenalidomide  and  a  proteasome  inhibitor.  Refer  to  the  SmPC  for  the  full 
indication.  It  contains  daratumumab  as  the  active  substance  and  it  is  given  by  subcutaneous 
injection. 
DARZALEX  1,800 mg  solution  for  injection  is  also  authorized  in  combination  with 
cyclophosphamide, bortezomib and dexamethasone for the treatment of adult patients with newly 
diagnosed systemic light chain (AL) amyloidosis. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  DARZALEX’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
DARZALEX’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  European 
Medicines Agency (EMA) website, under the medicine’s webpage link to  the  product’s  EPAR 
summary landing page on the EMA webpage. 
II. Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or Further Characterize 
the Risks 
Important risks of DARZALEX, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about DARZALEX’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (eg,  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In the case of DARZALEX, these measures are supplemented with an additional risk minimization 
measure mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed, including Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of DARZALEX is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of DARZALEX are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate  or  minimize  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of DARZALEX. Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks 
Interference for blood typing (minor antigen) (positive indirect Coombs’ 
test) 
Important potential risks 
None 
Hepatitis B virus reactivation 
Missing information 
Use in patients with AL amyloidosis who have pre-existing serious 
cardiac involvement 
II.B. 
Summary of Important Risks 
Important identified risk: Interference for blood typing (minor antigen) (positive indirect 
Coombs’ test) 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Daratumumab binds to red blood cells (RBCs) and interferes with 
compatibility testing, including antibody screening and cross-
matching, which may persist for up to 6 months after the last 
administration of daratumumab. Events of relevance to 
interference for blood typing have occurred during clinical trials. 
The determination of a patient’s blood group (type O, A, B, or 
AB) and Rh blood type are not impacted. 
Patients with multiple myeloma could potentially require blood 
testing for blood type and cross-match for severe anemia, which is 
a common complication of myeloma and its treatment. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
• 
• 
• 
SmPC Section 4.4, which advises that patients should be 
typed and screened, and phenotyping or genotyping be 
considered prior to starting daratumumab treatment; 
SmPC Section 4.4, which advises healthcare professionals 
(HCPs) to notify blood transfusion centers of this 
interference with indirect antiglobulin tests in the event of a 
planned transfusion; 
SmPC Section 4.4, which recommends that if an emergency 
transfusion is required, non-cross-matched ABO/RhD 
 
Important identified risk: Interference for blood typing (minor antigen) (positive indirect 
Coombs’ test) 
compatible RBCs can be given per local blood bank 
practices; 
• 
• 
SmPC Section 4.5, which recommends mitigating 
daratumumab interference by treating reagent RBCs with 
dithiothreitol (DTT) to disrupt daratumumab binding or 
other locally validated methods, and that Kell negative units 
should be supplied after ruling out or identifying 
alloantibodies using DTT treated RBCs; 
PL Section 2, which instructs patients to inform the person 
doing the blood test to match blood type that they are 
receiving treatment with daratumumab. 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
•  Distribution of educational materials and Patient Alert 
Cards to HCPs and blood banks as described in PL Annex 
II, D. 
Important identified risk: Hepatitis B virus reactivation 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Randomized controlled trials investigating daratumumab for the 
treatment of multiple myeloma, either as monotherapy or in 
combination with standard therapy, have reported an increased 
incidence of certain infections in association with daratumumab. 
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) reactivation has been observed in 
daratumumab clinical trials and in the postmarketing setting. 
Patients with evidence of positive HBV serology or with chronic 
HBV infection are at risk for developing HBV reactivation. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
• 
• 
• 
SmPC Section 4.8 and PL Section 4; 
SmPC Section 4.4 and PL Section 2, which advise HBV 
screening before initiation of treatment with daratumumab 
and to monitor for clinical and laboratory signs of HBV 
reactivation during and for at least 6 months following the 
end of daratumumab treatment for patients with evidence of 
positive HBV serology; 
SmPC Section 4.4, which advises to manage patients 
according to current clinical guidelines, and to consider 
consulting a hepatitis disease expert as clinically indicated; 
 
Important identified risk: Hepatitis B virus reactivation 
• 
SmPC Section 4.4, which advises to suspend treatment with 
daratumumab and to institute appropriate treatment in 
patients who develop reactivation of HBV while on 
daratumumab. Resumption of daratumumab treatment in 
patients whose HBV reactivation is adequately controlled 
should be discussed with physicians with expertise in 
managing HBV; 
• 
PL Section 2, which includes a warning to patients with 
history or current HBV infection. 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
•  Distribution of a Direct Healthcare Professional 
Communication to HCPs who prescribe daratumumab in the 
EU member states in June 2019. 
Missing information: Use in patients with AL amyloidosis who have pre-existing serious cardiac 
involvement 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
• 
SmPC Section 5.1. 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
•  None. 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
•  A multicenter prospective study of daratumumab-based 
therapy in patients with newly diagnosed AL amyloidosis. 
Final report by 1st Quarter 2026. 
II.C. 
Post-authorization Development Plan 
II.C.1. 
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
The following study is a condition of the marketing authorization for AL amyloidosis:  
54767414AMY3001  -  A  Randomized  Phase  3  Study  to  Evaluate  the  Efficacy  and  Safety  of 
Daratumumab  in  Combination  with  Cyclophosphamide,  Bortezomib  and  Dexamethasone 
(CyBorD) Compared with CyBorD in Newly Diagnosed Systemic AL Amyloidosis 
Purpose of the study: The initial efficacy assessment for Study AMY3001 was based on surrogate 
endpoints,  which  requires  verification  of  the  impact  of  the  intervention  on  clinical  outcome  or 
disease progression or confirmation of previous efficacy assumptions. The final overall survival 
(OS)  analysis  will  be  submitted  by  Q3  2025  to  further  evaluate  the  efficacy  of  subcutaneous 
daratumumab  in  combination  with  cyclophosphamide,  bortezomib  and  dexamethasone  for  the 
treatment of adult patients with newly diagnosed systemic light chain (AL) amyloidosis.  
 
 
II.C.2. 
Other Studies in Post-authorization Development Plan 
A  multicenter  prospective  study  of  daratumumab-based  therapy  in  patients  with  newly 
diagnosed AL amyloidosis. 
Purpose of the study: This is a study in AL amyloidosis patients to assess all serious cardiovascular 
adverse events on study treatment, all deaths on study treatment, and the risk factors for cardiac 
toxicity in patients treated with daratumumab subcutaneous. The primary objective of the study is 
to further characterize cardiac adverse events in patients with newly diagnosed AL amyloidosis 
treated with subcutaneous daratumumab-based therapy in terms of the incidence, severity, clinical 
presentation, management, and outcome. This study addresses use in patients with AL amyloidosis 
who have pre-existing serious cardiac involvement.  
 
