20 January 2020 
EMADOC-1700519818-468939 
EMA/OD/0000010020 Correction1 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Darzalex (daratumumab) 
Treatment of plasma cell myeloma 
EU/3/13/1153 
Sponsor: Janssen-Cilag International N.V.     
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
1 Correction of EMADOC-2005359794-218151: revision of second paragraph of Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 
141/2000 - Existing methods. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
2.1. Orphan medicinal product designation .............................................................................................. 4 
2.2. Review of orphan medicinal product designation at the time of marketing authorisation .............. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of type II variation
 .................................................................................................................... 5 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 5 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 6 
4. COMP list of issues .................................................................................. 8 
5. COMP position adopted on 16 December 2019 ........................................ 9 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 2/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substances at the time of orphan 
Daratumumab 
designation 
Other name(s) 
Anti-CD38-monoclonal-antibody-Genmab; Dara-SC; 
Darasarex; DARZALEX; Humanised anti-CD38 
monoclonal antibody; HuMax-CD38; HuMax®-CD38 - 
Genmab; JNJ-54767414 
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Daratumumab 
Tradename 
Orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details: 
Darzalex 
Treatment of plasma cell myeloma  
Janssen-Cilag International N.V.   
Turnhoutseweg 30 
2340 Beerse 
Belgium  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Janssen-Cilag International NV  
13 June 2013 
19 July 2013 
EU/3/13/1153 
Post-designation procedural history 
COMP opinion on review of orphan 
21 April 2016 
designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation  
Type II variation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
S.B. Sarac / J. Camarero Jiménez 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Janssen-Cilag International N.V.   
27 March 2019 
27 April 2019 
EMA/H/C/004077/II/0030 
Darzalex 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
In combination with bortezomib, thalidomide and 
dexamethasone for the treatment of adult patients 
with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who are 
eligible for autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT)  
Further information on <product> can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website 
ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/darzalex  
CHMP opinion date 
12 December 2019 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
F. Naumann-Winter / K. Penttila 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
22 May 2019 
COMP discussion  
3-5 December 2019 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 3/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMP opinion date (adoption via written 
16 December 2019 
procedure) 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
2.1.  Orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2013 designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing daratumumab was 
considered justified based on preliminary clinical studies showing responses in previously relapsed 
or refractory patients, treated with the product; 
the condition is life-threatening due to the development of hypercalcemia, renal insufficiency, 
anaemia and bone lesions, and life-threatening with an overall survival of up to approximately 45 
months for newly diagnosed patients; 
the condition was estimated to be affecting approximately 1.75 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time the application was made;  
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the medicinal 
product containing daratumumab may be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition. 
The sponsor has submitted preliminary clinical data in relapsed or refractory plasma cell myeloma 
patients; of the 12 patients treated in the higher dose cohorts, 5 partial responses according to the 
International Myeloma Working Group criteria have been reported. In addition, a prolongation of 
progression free survival is reported compared to the lower doses cohorts. The Committee 
considered that this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
2.2.  Review of orphan medicinal product designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation  
The COMP opinion on the initial review of the orphan medicinal product designation in 2016 was based 
on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan indication of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of plasma cell myeloma (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) is estimated to 
remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be less than 4 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is chronically debilitating in particular due to the development of hypercalcemia, renal 
insufficiency, anaemia and bone lesions, and life-threatening with an overall survival of 
approximately 6 years; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, the assumption that Darzalex will be of potential significant benefit to those affected by the 
orphan condition still holds. The sponsor has provided clinical data with the product in relapsed and 
refractory patients, whose prior therapy included a proteasome inhibitor and an 
immunomodulatory agent and who have demonstrated disease progression on the last therapy. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 4/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The studied population was refractory to most authorised products, and the overall response rate 
to treatment was approximately 31% and the estimated overall survival 20 months. Furthermore, 
an indirect comparison of clinical data supports that daratumumab monotherapy is more 
efficacious and less toxic than the authorised product panobinostat. The COMP concluded that this 
constitutes a clinically relevant advantage.  
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
type II variation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Plasma cell myeloma (also commonly referred to as multiple myeloma) is a bone-marrow based 
multifocal neoplasm associated with an M-protein in serum or urine. Chronic antigen stimulation from 
infection or other disease and exposure to specific toxic substances or irradiation have been implicated 
in the aetiology of the condition. Symptomatic plasma cell myeloma is defined by the presence of end-
organ damage (CRAB criteria: hypercalcemia, renal insufficiency, anaemia, bone lesions) in a patient 
with an M component and clonal BM cells. Asymptomatic, smouldering, non-secretory myeloma and 
Plasma cell leukaemia are variants of plasma cell myeloma.  
Darzalex (daratumumab) has already received marketing authorisation in the EU and is indicated:  
• 
• 
• 
as monotherapy for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma, 
whose prior therapy included a proteasome inhibitor and an immunomodulatory agent and who 
have demonstrated disease progression on the last therapy.  
in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone, or bortezomib and dexamethasone, for the 
treatment of adult patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy  
in combination with bortezomib, melphalan and prednisone for the treatment of adult patients with 
newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who are ineligible for autologous stem cell transplant 
The sponsor applies simultaneously for extensions of indication as follows:  
a) 
in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone (Rd) for the treatment of adult patients with 
newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who are ineligible for autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) 
and 
b)  in combination with bortezomib, thalidomide and dexamethasone for the treatment of 
adult patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who are eligible for autologous 
stem cell transplant (ASCT) (emphasis added). 
Both extensions fall entirely within the designated indication which is more broadly worded as 
“treatment of plasma cell myeloma”. Moreover, the first extension (first line in ASCT ineligible patients) 
targets the same population as the already authorised indication, thereby not-requiring further 
confirmation of the orphan criteria. Therefore, this report will discuss the maintenance of the criteria in 
the second extension highlighted above. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 5/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility is confirmed with reference to the positive benefit/risk assessment of the 
CHMP. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
The sponsor has not identified any changes since designation. It has previously been considered by the 
COMP that plasma cell myeloma (also referred to as multiple myeloma) is chronically debilitating in 
particular due to the development of hypercalcemia, renal insufficiency, anemia and bone lesions, and 
life-threatening with an overall survival of up to approximately 6 years (Kumar, Leukemia. 2014 
May;28(5):1122-8). The condition remains chronically debilitating and life-threatening. 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor provided estimates of 10-year prevalence projected to 2018, obtained for the 5 most 
populous EU countries from the CancerMPact® program, noting that this appears to be a close 
approximation of complete prevalence. The estimate provided was approximately 3.44 per 10,000 
persons, with the highest computed estimate in Italy also remaining under 4 per 10,000 persons. It 
was considered that this reference is a market analysis tool and not an epidemiological source, and as 
such not acceptable for the purpose of establishing prevalence. 
This limitation is mitigated by further estimates provided by the sponsor which refer to other credible 
data sources (NORDCAN and HMRN). Based on HMRN data from 2007 to 2016, the 10-year prevalence 
of multiple myeloma in the UK was estimated as 3 per 10,000. The sponsor also has referred to the 
NORDCAN database, citing a total point prevalence of approximately 3.5 per 10,000. 
The COMP recently considered that the condition affects less than 4 in 10,000 people which was still 
considered relevant for this procedure and in line with the above. 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
There are medicinal products authorised in the EU for the treatment of multiple myeloma. In addition 
to the centrally approved products (carfilzomib, bortezomib, doxorubicin HCl, interferon alfa-2b, 
lenalidomide, thalidomide, panobinostat), there are also products authorised at the national level 
(carmustin, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, epirubicin, melphalan and vincristine). The sponsor notes 
that bortezomib, in combination with VTd or Vd is indicated specifically for the target population. 
As per the ESMO guidelines on the diagnosis and treatment of multiple myeloma (Moreau et al. 2017 
Annals of Oncology Volume 28, Supplement 4, Pages iv52–iv61) first line treatment depends on the 
eligibility for autologous stem cell transplantation. For younger patients, induction with bortezomib-
dexamethasone plus one more drug (VTD, VCD, PAD, RVD) and then melphalan followed by 
autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) is the standard treatment.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 6/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With regards to second line treatment, the choice of therapy depends on several parameters such as 
age, performance status, comorbidities and the type, effects and tolerability of previous treatments. 
Significant benefit 
The COMP considered the scope of the extension, in first line adult patients who are eligible for 
autologous stem cell transplant. In those patients, induction with bortezomib-dexamethasone plus one 
more drug (VTD, VCD, PAD, RVD) and then melphalan followed by autologous stem cell transplantation 
(ASCT) is the standard treatment. 
The sponsor argued improved efficacy when the product is added on to VTd. This is based on the main 
study MMY3006. Study MMY3006 was a large randomized, open-label, active-control, parallel-group, 
multicenter, Phase 3 study comparing DVTd with VTd in the treatment of newly diagnosed multiple 
myeloma in subjects aged up to 65 years who were eligible for ASCT. The treatment phase of Study 
MMY3006 study consists of 2 stages:   
• 
• 
Part 1 (Induction/ASCT/Consolidation): subjects were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either 
DVTd or VTd. Planned enrolment was 1080 subjects. The number of planned cycles was 6 (4 cycles 
of induction therapy before ASCT and 2 cycles of consolidation therapy after ASCT). Response was 
assessed approximately 100 days post-ASCT and eligibility for the second randomization was 
determined.  
Part 2 (Maintenance): subjects with at least a partial response (PR) by Day 100 post-transplant 
were re-randomized in a 1:1 ratio to daratumumab maintenance or observation only. 
Approximately 800 subjects (400/arm) of the initial 1080 subjects were expected to be randomized 
to maintenance.  
The primary objective in Part 1 of Study MMY3006 was to determine if the addition of daratumumab to 
VTd increased the proportion of subjects achieving sCR 100 days post-ASCT compared to VTd alone. 
Key secondary endpoints in Part 1 of Study MMY3006 used a hierarchical testing procedure to 
determine if the addition of daratumumab to VTd improved:  
•  Minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity rate 100 days post-ASCT  
•  Complete response (CR) or better rate 100 days post-ASCT  
• 
PFS from first randomization  
•  OS from first randomization  
Randomization was stratified by site affiliation (IFM or HOVON), International Staging System (ISS) 
category (I, II, or III), and cytogenetics (standard risk or high risk as defined by presence of del17p or 
t(4;14), as centrally assessed during screening). Within each stratum, subjects were randomized using 
an equal allocation ratio of 1:1.  
Subjects in Study MMY3006 were diagnosed with multiple myeloma as defined by the IMWG 
guidelines. Specifically, all subjects had documented multiple myeloma satisfying CRAB criteria 
(calcium elevation, renal insufficiency, anaemia, and bone abnormalities) or biomarkers of malignancy, 
as well as evidence of measurable secretory disease (as determined by a central laboratory). 
Enrolment was limited to subjects with newly diagnosed disease who had not had any exposure to 
prior therapy for multiple myeloma and who were considered candidates for HDT with ASCT. Subjects 
with a poor performance status (i.e., Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group [ECOG] Performance Status 
Score of 3 or worse) were excluded mainly for safety reasons, as this population of patients generally 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 7/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
has a greater risk for toxicity. Also excluded were subjects with peripheral neuropathy or Grade 2 or 
higher neuropathic pain as neuropathy is a known toxicity associated with bortezomib and thalidomide. 
With regards to the Primary Efficacy Endpoint, the addition of daratumumab to VTd resulted in a 
statistically significant improvement in the sCR rate 100 days post-ASCT by validated computerized 
algorithm (28.9% vs. 20.3%; odds ratio=1.60 with 95% CI: 1.21, 2.12; p=0.0010) compared with 
VTd alone. Improvement in sCR rate at 100 days post-ASCT was robust across sensitivity analyses and 
consistent across predefined clinically relevant subgroups, except in the cytogenetic high-risk subgroup 
(odds ratio=0.83 with 95% CI: 0.42, 1.66) and ISS Stage III subgroup (odds ratio=1.07 with 95% CI: 
0.54, 2.12). However, both subgroups showed improved PFS (HR= 0.67 and 0.66, respectively), CR or 
better rates at Day 100 post-ASCT (odds ratio=1.11 and 1.54, respectively), and MRD negativity rates 
at Day 100 post-ASCT (odds ratio=1.88 and 2.14, respectively), favouring the DVTd treatment group 
compared with the VTd regimen.  
Results of a supplementary PFS analysis (during the CHMP assessment procedure), censoring patients 
who were randomized to daratumumab maintenance in the second randomization, were consistent 
with the previous result. The PFS analysis showed a hazard ratio [HR]=0.50; 95% CI: 0.34, 0.75; 
p=0.0005. 
In evaluation of the sponsor’s position, it can be acknowledged that addition of Darzalex to VTD results 
in improved efficacy in the target population, based on the results from study 3006. The COMP 
reflected on whether there is a need for additional comparisons (further to the VTD one). The ESMO 
guidelines were also taken into consideration towards this end. It was considered that the 
recommended therapy in younger patients would consist of bortezomib-dexamethasone plus one more 
drug (VTD, VCD, PAD, RVD) and then melphalan followed by autologous stem cell transplantation. 
It was also considered that Velcade (mentioned in the regimens above as V or P) is only authorised in 
combination with Td and that the other recommended regiments that contain V(P) can be considered 
off-label.  Therefore, significant benefit can be considered acceptable on the basis of the results from 
study 3006. 
4.  COMP list of issues 
Not applicable 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 8/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  COMP position adopted on 16 December 2019 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan condition of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of plasma cell myeloma (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated 
to remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded in to be less than 4 in 10,000 persons in the 
European Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is chronically debilitating in particular due to the development of hypercalcemia, renal 
insufficiency, anemia and bone lesions, and life-threatening with an overall survival of up to 
approximately 6 years; 
although satisfactory methods for the treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the assumption that Darzalex may be of potential significant benefit to those 
affected by the orphan condition still holds. The applicant has submitted clinical data that show 
improved progression free survival and complete response rates in newly diagnosed patients with 
multiple myeloma who are eligible for autologous stem cell transplantation, when the product is 
added on to bortezomib, thalidomide, and dexamethasone. The COMP considered that this 
constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Darzalex, daratumumab for 
treatment of plasma cell myeloma (EU/3/13/1153) is not removed from the Community Register of 
Orphan Medicinal Products. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
Page 9/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
