22 September 2011 
EMA/895265/2011  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Dasselta 
International nonproprietary name: desloratadine  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002310 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents 
1 
1.1 
1.2 
2 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
3 
4 
Background information on the procedure
Submission of the dossier
Steps taken for the assessment of the product
............................................. 3 
.................................................................................. 3 
...................................................... 4 
Scientific discussion
Introduction
Quality aspects
Non- Clinical aspects
Clinical Aspects
Pharmacovigilance
............................................................................... 4 
..................................................................................................... 4 
................................................................................................. 5 
......................................................................................... 7 
................................................................................................. 8 
.......................................................................................... 12 
Benefit-Risk Balance
............................................................................ 13 
Recommendation
.................................................................................. 14 
Dasselta Novo Mesto 
Assessment report  
EMA/895265/2011  
Page 2/14 
 
 
 
 
1  Background information on the procedure 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Krka, d.d., Novo mesto submitted on 03 February 2011 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Dasselta, through the centralised procedure 
under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The 
eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 23 March 2010. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has been 
granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 
2001/83/EC. . 
The applicant applied for the following indication: relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis 
and urticaria. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Aerius instead of non-clinical and clinical 
unless justified otherwise. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Not applicable. 
Information relating to Orphan Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable. 
Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable. 
The chosen reference product is: 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Aerius, 5 mg, Film-coated tablets 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: Schering-Plough Europe 
  Date of authorisation:  15/01/2001  
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Union 
  Union Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/160/001 
■  Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Aerius, 5 mg, Film-coated tablets 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: Schering-Plough Europe 
  Date of authorisation:  15/01/2001  
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
Dasselta Novo Mesto 
Assessment report  
EMA/895265/2011  
Page 3/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Union 
  Union Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/160/001 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Aerius, 5 mg, Film-coated tablets 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: Schering-Plough Europe 
  Date of authorisation: 15/01/2001   
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Union 
  Union Marketing authorisation number(s): EU/1/00/160/001 
  Bioavailability study number(s): Confidential 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
János Borvendég  
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 03 February 2011  
The procedure started on 23 February 2011. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 May 2011.  
  During the meeting on 20-23 June 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 27 
June 2011. 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 21 July 2011. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 02 September 2011.  
  During the meeting on 19-20 September 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
Marketing Authorisation to Dasselta on 20 September 2011.  
2  Scientific discussion 
2.1  Introduction 
The Marketing Authorization Application of Dasselta 5 mg film-coated tablets is made in the centralised 
procedure according to regulation (EC) No 726/2004, Article 3(3). It is in compliance with the article 
10(1) of directive 2001/83/EC. The drug product is a generic of the centrally authorised medicinal 
product Aerius 5 mg film-coated tablets. The reference medicinal products – 
Dasselta Novo Mesto 
Assessment report  
EMA/895265/2011  
Page 4/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aerius®/Azomyr®/Neoclarityn® 5 mg tablets (MA holder Schering-Plough Europe) was authorized on 
15th January 2001 via centralised procedure in accordance to Article 8 of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Reference medicinal product Aerius is indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with allergic 
rhinitis and urticaria, like those proposed for Dasselta. The recommended daily dose is 5 mg in adults 
and adolescents. 
The active substance of the medicinal product is desloratadine. Desloratadine is a non-sedating, long-
acting histamine antagonist with selective peripheral H1-receptor antagonist activity. After oral 
administration, desloratadine selectively blocks peripheral histamine H1-receptors. The selectivity is 
achieved because the substance is excluded from the entry into the central nervous system. 
This application is a generic application, therefore, demonstration of therapeutic equivalence is shown 
by means of pharmacokinetic studies. Then, new clinical studies are neither required nor submitted. In 
spite of this general rule the Applicant submitted a comprehensive overview of clinical data on 
desloratadine in clinical use based upon the conclusions of the relevant clinical studies published in the 
literature.  
The relative oral bioavailability of Dasselta 5 mg film-coated tablets (manufactured by KRKA d.d. Novo 
mesto, Slovenia) and the European brand product Aerius®  5mg  film-coated tablets (manufactured by 
SP Europe,  Belgium ) was established by comparing the single dose pharmacokinetics of desloratadine 
from the two formulations, under fasting conditions, in a randomised crossover study. 
An additional pack-size of 250 film-coated tablets containing more units than the pack size of the 
reference product is proposed. It is confirmed that this additional pack size is consistent with the 
dosage regimen and duration of use. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
2.2.1  Introduction 
Dasselta is available as 5 mg film-coated tablets for oral administration containing desloratadine as the 
active ingredient. The full list of ingredients is defined in section 6.1 of the SPC. The film-coated tablets 
are 
light  blue, 
round  with  bevelled  edges  are  stored 
in  polyamide/aluminium/polyvinyl 
chloride/aluminium  foil  blisters  or  a  high  density  polyethylene  container  and  polypropylene  closure 
bottles with desiccant. 
2.2.2  Active  Substance 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, the active substance desloratadine is not described in the European 
Pharmacopoeia. The ASMF procedure is applied.  
The  substance  is  freely  soluble  in  dichloromethane,  soluble  in  methanol  and  chloroform,  very  slightly 
soluble in acetone and ethyl acetate and practically insoluble in water. Desloratadine exists in different 
polymorphic forms.  
The manufacturing processes produce consistently the same form(s) of desloratadine. 
Manufacture 
The synthesis processes of desloratadine include one chemical step followed by purification. 
The quality of the starting material supplied by the different manufacturers is satisfactory supported by 
either  a  Certificate  of  Suitability  from  EDQM  or  by  an  ASMF.  In  the  detailed  description  of 
manufacturing  process  of  desloratadine  reaction  conditions,  equipments  and  quantities  of  the  used 
materials  are  provided  precisely.  Organic  impurities  and  residual  solvents  are  discussed.  Impurity 
profiles of drug substance batches from different manufacturers are also provided. A specific discussion 
Dasselta Novo Mesto 
Assessment report  
EMA/895265/2011  
Page 5/14 
 
 
 
 
is  provided  with  regard  to  genotoxic  impurities.  Based  on  the  synthetic  process,  raw  materials  used 
and impurity profile of desloratadine, no potential genotoxic impurities are identified.  
Specification 
Specifications  have  been  set  that  are  appropriate  in  view  of  the  Ph  Eur  Monograph  ‘Substances  for 
Pharmaceutical use’, the Q6A Guideline on Setting Specifications and the impurity discussion. 
Limits  of  specified  and  unspecified  related  substances  are  set  in  line  with  ICH  Q3A  guidelines.  The 
maximum level of total impurities is set at a level which is qualified with regard to safety. The limits for 
residual solvents are in line with ICHQ3C and Ph. Eur. requirements. The limits for assay are based on 
general pharmacopeial limits for active substances. 
Satisfactory data have been provided regarding PhEur and in-house analytical tests. 
Analytical results confirm batch to batch consistency and uniformity of the quality of the substance and 
indicate that the manufacturing process followed by both manufacturers is under control. 
Stability 
Satisfactory  stability  data  of  three  batches  from  each  manufacturer  of  the  active  substance  stored  in 
their proposed commercial packaging at 25° ± 2°C/ 60 % ± 5 % RH and 40° ± 2°C/ 75 % ± 5 % RH, 
have been  provided to support the proposed re-test period of  24 months without any special storage 
condition. All results comply with the specifications and no trends are observed. 
2.2.3  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Dasselta 5 mg film-coated tablets are a conventional immediate release pharmaceutical form. 
The excipients used are all standard and commonly used in the pharmaceutical industry. 
Satisfactory comparative impurity profiles have been presented for the test and reference products. 
Comparative  dissolution  profiles  of  reference  and  test  biobatches  were  performed  in  three  different 
dissolution media: 0.1 M Hydrochloric acid, Acetate buffer pH 4.5, Phosphate buffer pH 6.8. In all three 
media dissolution of the drug substance from the reference and test product is fast and complete and 
profiles are proved to be similar.  
Adventitious agents 
Lactose  monohydrate  is  derived  from  milk  and  is  therefore  compliant  with  the  Note  for  Guidance  on 
Minimising  the  Risk  of  Transmitting  Animal  Spongiform  Encephalopathy  Agents  Via  Human  and 
Veterinary  Medicinal  Products  (EMEA/410/01  Rev.  2).  No  excipients  derived  from  human  origin  have 
been used. 
No novel excipients are used in the manufacturing process of Dasselta. 
Manufacture of the product 
The  manufacturing  process  is  a  conventional  technology.  The  manufacturing  formula,  flow  chart  and 
description  of  the  manufacturing  process  are  presented.  The  main  process  steps  are  supervised  by 
suitable in-process controls and their acceptance criteria are specified.  
The manufacturing process has been validated on pilot batches. 
Product Specification  
The  specification  of  the  drug  product  are  acceptable.  The  finished  product  specifications are  standard 
for  immediate  release  tablets.  The  proposed  test  procedures  and  acceptance  criteria  comply  with  the 
requirements  of  the  Ph.Eur.  and  ICH  guidelines.  All  tests  included  in  the  specification  have  been 
satisfactorily described and validated. 
Dasselta Novo Mesto 
Assessment report  
EMA/895265/2011  
Page 6/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  batch  analysis  results  show  that  the  finished  product  meets  the  proposed  specifications  and 
confirm the consistency & uniformity of manufacture indicating that the process is under control. 
Stability of the product 
The  conditions  used  in  the  stability  studies  are  in  accordance  with  the  ICH  stability  guideline.  The 
control  tests  and  specifications  of  drug  product  are  adequately  drawn  up.  Photostability  tests  were 
performed on two batches.  
Based on the stability data provided the proposed shelf-life is granted, please see SmPC. 
2.2.4  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug product have 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance. 
2.2.5  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has been 
presented to give reassurance on viral/TSE safety. 
2.2.6  Recommendation(s) for future quality development   
Not applicable. 
2.3  Non- Clinical aspects   
2.3.1  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity 
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
2.3.2  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Dasselta manufactured by KRKA d.d. Novo Mesto, Slovenia is considered unlikely to 
result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all desloratadine containing 
products and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to 
be similar and not increased. 
Dasselta Novo Mesto 
Assessment report  
EMA/895265/2011  
Page 7/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.3  Discussion on Non-Clinical aspects 
The CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. The ERA is expected to be similar 
and not increased. 
2.3.4  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. The ERA is expected to be similar 
and not increased. 
2.4  Clinical Aspects  
2.4.1  Introduction 
This is an application for film-coated tablets containing desloratadine. To support the marketing 
authorisation application the applicant conducted one bioequivalence study with cross-over design 
under fasting conditions. This study was the pivotal study for the assessment. 
The applicant also provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics 
as well as efficacy and safety of desloratadine based on published literature.  
The SmPC is in line with the SmPC of the reference product. 
No formal scientific advice by the CHMP was given for this medicinal product. For the clinical 
assessment Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1 in its 
current version is of particular relevance. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study.  
Table 1.  Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Dasselta Novo Mesto 
Assessment report  
EMA/895265/2011  
Page 8/14 
 
 
 
 
2.4.2  Pharmacokinetics  
Methods 
Study design  
Study 10-282 was a  single-dose, randomized, open-label, two-period, two-sequence, two-treatment, 
single-centre, crossover study designed to evaluate the comparative bioavailability of desloratadine  
from Dasselta 5 mg Film-Coated Tablets (Manufactured by KRKA, d.d., Novo Mesto, Slovenia) and 
Aerius 5 mg Film-Coated Tablets (MA holder Schering-Plough Europe) under fasting conditions.  
Subjects were randomly assigned to one of the two dosing sequences. Subjects were administered the 
test or reference medication (as per the randomisation scheme) as a single oral dose of tablet 
containing 5 mg of desloratadine with 240 mL of water in the morning under fasting conditions and 
subsequently fasted for a period of at least 5 hours. They were not allowed to lie down or sleep for the 
first 6 hours after drug administration. At 5 and 10 hours post dose standard meals were served. 
During each study period, blood samples were taken at 0 (pre-drug administration), 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 
3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 7.5, 9, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 72 hours after dosing. Plasma was harvested from 
these samples and assayed for desloratadine. The wash-out period was 2 weeks. 
The study was conducted at a single study site outside the community. The bioanalytic analyses were 
performed by contract research organisation outside the community. The pharmacokinetic and 
statistical analysis was performed at KRKA d.d., R& D, Pharmacokinetics Department. 
Study was conducted in accordance to the study protocol (dated 10 February 2010) and under 
approval by the competent national authorities.  
Test and reference products  
Dasselta 5 mg film-coated tablets manufactured by KRKA d.d. Novo Mesto, Slovenia (batch No. 1252 
01 P003 1009, manufacturing date October 2009; retest date September 2010) has been compared to 
Aerius 5 mg film-coated tablets  (Batch No: 8STBAAFB01, exp. date August 2010).  
The batch size of the test product Dasselta 5 mg film-coated tablets was in accordance with the 
guideline. Composition of the test product was identical to the formulation intended to be marketed. 
Population studied   
Twenty four (24) healthy male volunteers were included in the study and there were no 
dropouts.Study population was defined as healthy male volunteers, aged 18-55 years, Caucasian race, 
non smoker, BMI within 18,5 and 30 kg/m2. The baseline characteristics are detailed below.  
Dasselta Novo Mesto 
Assessment report  
EMA/895265/2011  
Page 9/14 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2.  Demographic characteristics of subjects in study 10-282 
There were no protocol violations reported including no substantial difference between the planned and 
actual sampling times. 
Analytical methods   
An LC/MS/MS assay for the determination of desloratadine in human plasma was developed and 
validated by the contract research organisation outside the community. At the study site the plasma 
samples were frozen at -20°C ± 5°C until assayed at the analytical site. The calibration range for the 
bioanalytical method was 24.88 – 4976.00 pg/ml. A Re-analysis of part of the samples was conducted 
during the study, with all results within the predefined acceptance range of ±20.0% of the original 
value. 
The analytical method was developed for simultaneous determination of desloratadine and its 3-OH 
metabolite. However the protocol of the bioequivalence study required measuring only the 
desloratadine concentration. 
The bioanalytical method is considered adequately validated. 
Pharmacokinetic Variables  
The main pharmacokinetic parameters in this study were AUC0-72h, and Cmax. Other pharmakokinetic 
parameters, such as AUCinf, AUC t/AUCinf, Kel, Tmax and T1/2 were provided for information purpose 
only. 
Calculations of pharmacokinetic parameters were performed in Kinetica Version 5.0 and SAS Syste
m 
for Windows Release 9.1. The individual plasma levels of desloratadine obtained for the two 
formulations were used for the model-independent determination of pharmacokinetic parameters. 
Statistical methods   
ANOVA including sequence, subjects nested within sequence, period and treatment was to be 
performed on the ln-transformed data for AUC0-72h and C max and on the raw data for AUC0-72h, C ma
and Tmax. Tmax were to be analyzed using an additional non-parametric test (Wilcoxon test). The 90% 
confidence intervals (CI) of the Test/Reference ratios of geometric means for AUC0-72h and C max were 
to be calculated based on the least square means. The predefined a
cceptance range for the conclusion 
x 
on bioequivalence based on AUC0-72h and Cmax was 80.00-12
5.00 %.  
There were no missing values and no outliers in the study. 
Dasselta Novo Mesto 
Assessment report  
EMA/895265/2011  
Page 10/14 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
The results show that the test product is bioequivalent to the reference product. 
Table 3.  Pharmacokinetic parameters (non-transformed values; arithmetic mean ± SD, Tmax  median, 
range) 
Treatment 
AUC 0-72 
Test 
Reference 
*Ratio (90% 
CI) 
CV (%) 
pg/ml/h 
32432.74  
± 7322.33 
33230.67  
± 6261.88 
96.79% 
(91.89% - 
101.95%) 
14.4 
AUC inf 
pg/ml/h 
35337.88  
± 8015.73 
35707.58  
± 6964.83 
98.18% 
(93.02% - 
103.64%) 
15.4 
C max 
pg/ml 
2252.40  
± 570.09 
2249.60  
± 601.73 
100.39% 
(93.64% - 
107.63%) 
19.7 
Tmax 
h 
T1/2 
h 
2.50  
(1.00 – 6.00) 
2.00  
(1.00 – 6.00) 
- 
22.21  
± 10.23 
20.85  
± 2.92 
- 
- 
- 
AUC inf   area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
AUC 0-72   area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to 72 hours  
C max   maximum plasma concentration  
T max  
T 1/2  
time for maximum concentration  
half-life  
*ln-transformed values 
Safety data 
There were no adverse events reported in the study 10-282. 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Dasselta 5 mg film-coated tablets are considered 
bioequivalent with Aerius 5 mg film-coated tablets. 
2.4.3  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application. 
2.4.4  Additional data 
Dissolution profiles of both the reference and test product were fast and complete in three tested 
dissolution media: 0.1N Hydrochloric Acid, Acetate Buffer pH 4.5 and Phosphate Buffer pH 6.8. 
Dissolution profiles are assessed as being similar. 
2.4.5  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
Dasselta Novo Mesto 
Assessment report  
EMA/895265/2011  
Page 11/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.6  Discussion on Clinical aspects 
The design of the bioequivalence study is in line with the regulatory requirements, in particular 
Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1 in its current version. 
A two-sequence, two-period, cross-over design has been employed. The determination of the 
pharmacokinetic parameters and their statistical evaluation is acceptable. With regard to the AUC, 
truncated AUC over 72 h has been used for the evaluation which is generally acceptable for oral 
immediate release formulations. The study has been conducted according to GCP, and no important 
issues have been reported regarding the conduct of the study. The pre-defined acceptance criteria of 
80.00-125.00 % (for desloratadine AUC0-72h and Cmax) are in line with regulatory requirements and 
have been met. Choice of desloratadine as the analyte for establishing bioequivalence is acceptable; 
the bioanalytical method was adequately validated. Dasselta and the reference product have similar 
dissolution profiles. 
2.4.7  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
The bioequivalence of Dasselta 5 mg film-coated tablets to the reference medicinal product Aerius 
5 mg film-coated tablets can be regarded as established. 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP did not require the applicant to submit a risk management plan because of the well 
established safety profile of the reference product and proved bioequivalence between Dasselta and 
the reference product. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that routine pharmacovigilance 
was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. No additional risk minimisation activities were 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
PSUR submission 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product. The PSUR of 
the reference medicinal product is on a 2-yearly cycle. The last data lock point for the reference 
medicinal product was 15 July 2011. 
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
Dasselta Novo Mesto 
Assessment report  
EMA/895265/2011  
Page 12/14 
 
 
 
3  Benefit-Risk Balance  
This application concerns a generic version of desloratadine film-coated tablets. The reference product 
Aerius is indicated for relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis and urticaria. No 
nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a 
clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical 
overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was considered 
sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with a single-dose, randomized, open-label, two-
period, two-sequence, two-treatment, single-centre, crossover study under fasting conditions. The 
study design was considered adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of this formulation and was in 
line with the respective European requirements. Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sampling time 
as well as wash-out period were adequate. The analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and 
statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Dasselta 5 mg film-coated tablets met the protocol-defined criteria for 
bioequivalence when compared with the Aerius 5 mg film-coated tablets. The point estimates and their 
90% confidence intervals for the parameters AUC0-72 and C max were all contained within the protocol-
defined acceptance range of 80.00 to 125.00%. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was 
demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Dasselta Novo Mesto 
Assessment report  
EMA/895265/2011  
Page 13/14 
 
 
 
4  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Dasselta in the treatment of relief of symptoms associated with allergic 
rhinitis and urticaria is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Pharmacovigilance System  
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
Risk Management System  
Not applicable 
PSUR cycle 
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow PSURs submission schedule for the reference medicinal 
product. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable 
Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures 
Not applicable 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
Dasselta Novo Mesto 
Assessment report  
EMA/895265/2011  
Page 14/14 
 
 
 
 
