22 October 2012 
EMA/640225/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
DaTSCAN 
(ioflupane (123l)) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/266/P45 011 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 45 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
Disclaimer:  The assessment report was drafted before the launch of the European Medicines Agency’s new 
corporate identity in December 2009. This report therefore has a different appearance to documents currently 
produced by the Agency. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
On 03/10/2008, the MAH submitted 3 published paper thought to be paediatric study for 
DaTSCAN, in accordance with Article 45 of the Regulation (EC)No 1901/2006, as amended on 
medicinal products for paediatric use. 
The  MAH  stated  that  the  submitted  paediatric  study  does  not  influence  the  benefit  risk  for 
DaTSCAN and that there is no consequential regulatory action. 
In addition, the following documentation has been included as per the procedural guidance: 
-  An annex II including SPC  
II. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
II.1 
Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the clinical study(ies)  
None 
II.2 
 Non-clinical aspects  
None. 
II.3 
Clinical aspects 
1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted The MAH have submitted 4 published references 
2.  Clinical study(ies) 
Use in Adult Tourettes 
Dopamine  transporter  binding  in  Gilles  de  la  Tourestte  syndrome:  a  [123]FP-CIT/SPECT  study. 
Serra-Mestres: J Acta Psych 2004 
Background There have been conflicting studies in Tourettes with some PET and SPECT studies 
suggesting involvement of the striatal DOPA system and others being negative. Two PET studies have 
shown an increase in dopamine re-uptake sites and DOPA decarboxylase activity using [C11]WIN 35 428 
and [18 F ]-DOPA respectively and more recent ones using SPECT.These have been supported by 
postmortum studies which also suggest increased dopamimergic innervation within the striatum. 
Study  The study included 10 neuroleptic naïve Tourettes (1 had neuroleptic >1 year previously) and 10 
normal controls they received approximately 185 MBq of [123]FP-CIT. The age range was 18-64 years old. 
The methods used were able to give better definition to the different areas of the striatum distinguishing 
between caudate and putamen. It is not known if the increased binding is a primary or secondary problem. 
Results The Tourettes group showed higher binding in the caudate and putamen nuclei. The population of 
adult Tourettes studied may be atypical as it was recruited from a tertiary centre and likely to be severe. 
Reproducibity of a Standardized Quantitative Analysis Using Fixed Reions of Interest to 
Differentiate Movement Disorders on 123I-FP-CIT/SPECT. Marcel PM J Nuclear Medicine 
Technology 2007 
DaTSCAN 
EMEA/H/C/266/P45 011 
2/4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Background 
Study  this was a study of 52 adult patients (range 17-80 years) with clinical diagnoses of Parkinson’s 
disease (n=21), hypokinetic rigid syndrome (19), dystonia (8) or essential tremor (4). The results from 2 
different nalytic techniques were studied. Previous studies have used a dedicated cerebral camera. This 
study examines whether a non-dedicated camera can be reliably used in clinical practice. 
Results PD patients had lower ratios than the other groups. The final clinical diagnosis of the patients was 
established by a 2-year follow-up. A semi-automated technique gave more reliable results between 
technicians than a manual approach. 
SPECT imaging of the dopamine transporter in juvenile onset dystonia. O’Sullivan J: Neurology 
2001. 
Single case report of a clinically atypical dopa-responsive dystonia in a 22-year old with a normal study 
confirming that this was not a case of Juvenile parkinsonism. The diagnosis of dystonia was confirmed by 
family history and phenylalanine loading test. 
Imaging of dopaminergic dysfunction with 123I-FP-CIT/SPECT in early-onset parkin disease. 
Varrone A: Neurology 2004 
Background The paper refers to 2 earlier studies in parkin subjects one that was negative and one that 
showed an increase in severity of scan results. 
Study The study investigated whether the presence of the parkin gene in early onset parkinsons resulted in 
different scanning results. A total of 18 patients with early-onset Parkinsons were studied ( 9 with parkin 
gene, 9 without). The patients were aged 22-45 years. 
Results The subjects with the parkin gene showed a greater symmetry and a greater degree of 
niagrostriatal impairment compared to clinical severity than the non-parkin subjects. 
3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
There were 3 studies submitted (2 early onset PD and 1 adult Tourette’s) and 1 case report. The 
studies and case report were all conducted in adult and not paediatric patients. The references 
are not relevant to a paediatric submission. 
III. 
RAPPORTEUR’S OVERALL CONCLUSION AND 
RECOMMENDATION 
  Overall conclusion 
Overall Conclusion 
Tourettes The published paper is a first step in delineating changes in an adult population of Tourettes. 
The evidence submitted in this paper does not warrant any change to the SPC. 
Parkinsons disease This was an adult study of using a non-dedicated camera technique and does not 
require SPC update. 
Dopa-responsive dystonia  A single case report which does not warrant any change to the SPC. 
Early-onset parkin disease Although some differences in scan results between parkin and non-parkin 
patients were seen, clear discriminatory thresholds have not been established. In addition the consistency 
of these differences have not been robustly demonstrated with increased severity of scanning changes 
apparently noted in only 2/3 studies and symmetry in 1/3 studies according to the published paper. The 
evidence submitted in this paper does not warrant any change to the SPC. 
DaTSCAN 
EMEA/H/C/266/P45 011 
3/4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Recommendation 
x 
Fulfilled –  
No further action required 
IV. 
ADDITIONAL CLARIFICATIONS  REQUESTED 
 Not applicable 
DaTSCAN 
EMEA/H/C/266/P45 011 
4/4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
