ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
DaTSCAN 74 MBq/ml solution for injection 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each ml of solution contains ioflupane (123I) 74 MBq at reference time (0.07 to 0.13 μg/ml of ioflupane).  
Each 2.5 ml single dose vial contains 185 MBq ioflupane (123I) (specific activity range 2.5 to  
4.5 x 1014 Bq/mmol) at reference time. 
Each 5 ml single dose vial contains 370 MBq ioflupane (123I) (specific activity range 2.5 to  
4.5 x 1014 Bq/mmol) at reference time.   
Excipient(s) with known effect 
This medicinal product contains 39.5 g/l ethanol. 
For the full list of excipients see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection. 
Clear colourless solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only. 
DaTSCAN is indicated for detecting loss of functional dopaminergic neuron terminals in the striatum: 
• 
• 
In adult patients with clinically uncertain Parkinsonian Syndromes, for example those with early 
symptoms, in order to help differentiate Essential Tremor from Parkinsonian Syndromes related 
to idiopathic Parkinson’s Disease, Multiple System Atrophy and Progressive Supranuclear Palsy.  
DaTSCAN is unable to discriminate between Parkinson's Disease, Multiple System Atrophy and 
Progressive Supranuclear Palsy. 
In adult patients, to help differentiate probable dementia with Lewy bodies from Alzheimer’s 
disease. 
DaTSCAN is unable to discriminate between dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson’s disease 
dementia. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Prior to administration appropriate resuscitation equipment should be available. 
DaTSCAN should only be used in adult patients referred by physicians experienced in the management 
of movement disorders and/or dementia. DaTSCAN should only be used by qualified personnel with the 
appropriate government authorisation for the use and manipulation of radionuclides within a designated 
clinical setting. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posology 
Clinical efficacy has been demonstrated across the range 111 to 185 MBq. Do not exceed 185 MBq and 
do not use when the activity is below 110 MBq.  
Patients must undergo appropriate thyroid blocking treatment prior to injection to minimise thyroid 
uptake of radioactive iodine, for example by oral administration of approximately 120 mg potassium 
iodide 1 to 4 hours prior to injection of DaTSCAN. 
Special populations 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
Formal studies have not been carried out in patients with significant renal or hepatic impairment.  No 
data are available (see section 4.4). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of DaTSCAN in children aged 0 to 18 years has not been established.  No data 
are available. 
Method of Administration 
For intravenous use.  
DaTSCAN should be used without dilution. To minimise the potential for pain at the injection site 
during administration, a slow intravenous injection (not less than 15 to 20 seconds) via an arm vein is 
recommended. 
Image acquisition 
SPECT imaging should take place between three and six hours post-injection. Images should be 
acquired using a gamma camera fitted with a high-resolution collimator and calibrated using the 
159 keV photopeak and a ± 10% energy window. Angular sampling should preferably be not less than 
120 views over 360 degrees. For high resolution collimators the radius of rotation should be consistent 
and set as small as possible (typically 11-15cm). Experimental studies with a striatal phantom, suggest 
that optimal images are obtained with matrix size and zoom factors selected to give a pixel size of 
3.5-4.5 mm for those systems currently in use. A minimum of 500k counts should be collected for 
optimal images.  
4.3  Contraindications 
- 
- 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Pregnancy (see section 4.6). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
If hypersensitivity reactions occur, the administration of the medicinal product must be discontinued 
immediately and, if necessary, intravenous treatment initiated.  Resuscitative medicinal products and 
equipment (e.g. endotracheal tube and ventilator) have to be readily available.  
This radiopharmaceutical may be received, used and administered only by authorised persons in 
designated clinical settings. Its receipt, storage, use, transfer and disposal are subject to the regulations 
and the appropriate licences of the local competent official organisations. 
For each patient, exposure to ionising radiation must be justifiable on the basis of likely benefit.  The 
activity administered must be such that the resulting dose is as low as reasonably achievable bearing in 
mind the need to obtain the intended diagnostic result. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Formal studies have not been carried out in patients with significant renal or hepatic impairment. In the 
absence of data, DaTSCAN is not recommended in cases of moderate to severe renal or hepatic 
impairment. 
This medicinal product contains 39.5 g/l (5% volume) ethanol (alcohol), up to 197 mg per dose, 
equivalent to 5 ml beer or 2 ml wine. Harmful for those suffering from alcoholism. To be taken into 
account in high-risk groups such as patients with liver disease or epilepsy. 
Interpretation of DaTSCAN Images 
DaTSCAN images are interpreted visually, based upon the appearance of the striata.  
Optimum presentation of the reconstructed images for visual interpretation is transaxial slices parallel to 
the anterior commissure-posterior commissure (AC-PC) line. Determination of whether an image is 
normal or abnormal is made by assessing the extent (as indicated by shape) and intensity (in relation to 
the background) of the striatal signal. 
Normal images are characterised by two symmetrical crescent-shaped areas of equal intensity. 
Abnormal images are either asymmetric or symmetric with unequal or reduced intensity and/or loss of 
crescent. 
As an adjunct, visual interpretation may be assisted by semi-quantitative assessment using CE-marked 
software, where DaTSCAN uptake in the striatum is compared with uptake in a reference region and 
ratios are compared against an age adjusted healthy subjects’ database. The evaluation of ratios, such as 
the left/right striatum DaTSCAN uptake (symmetry) or caudate/putamen uptake, may further help with 
the image assessment. 
The following precautions should be taken when using semi-quantitative methods: 
•  Semi-quantification should only be used an adjunct to visual assessment 
•  Only CE marked software should be used  
•  Users should be trained in the use of CE marked software by the manufacturer and follow EANM   
 practice guidelines for image acquisition, reconstruction and assessment 
•  Readers should interpret the scan visually and then perform the semi-quantitative analysis 
according to manufacturer’s instructions including quality checks for the quantitation process 
o  ROI /VOI techniques should be used to compare uptake in the striatum with uptake in a 
reference region 
o  Comparison against an age adjusted healthy subjects database is recommended to 
account for age-expected decrease in striatal binding 
o  The reconstruction and filter settings (including attenuation correction) used can affect 
the semi-quantitative values.  The reconstruction and filter settings recommended by 
the manufacturer of the CE marked software should be followed and should match 
those used for semi-quantification of the healthy subjects database. 
o  The intensity of the striatal signal as measured by SBR (striatal binding ratio) 
and asymmetry and caudate to putamen ratio provide objective numerical values 
corresponding to the visual assessment parameters and can be helpful in difficult to read 
cases 
If the semi-quantitative values are inconsistent with the visual interpretation, the scan 
should be evaluated for appropriate placement of the ROIs /VOIs, correct image 
orientation and appropriate parameters for image acquisition and attenuation correction 
should be verified. Some software packages can support these processes to reduce 
operator-dependent variability 
o 
o  Final assessment should always consider both visual appearance and semi-quantitative 
results 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed in humans. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ioflupane binds to the dopamine transporter. Medicines that bind to the dopamine transporter with high 
affinity may therefore interfere with DaTSCAN diagnosis. These include amfetamine, benzatropine, 
buproprion, cocaine, mazindol, methylphenidate, phentermine and sertraline. 
Medicines shown during clinical trials not to interfere with DaTSCAN imaging include amantadine, 
trihexyphenidyl, budipine, levodopa, metoprolol, primidone, propranolol and selegiline. Dopamine 
agonists and antagonists acting on the postsynaptic dopamine receptors are not expected to interfere 
with DaTSCAN imaging and can therefore be continued if desired. Medicinal products shown in animal 
studies not to interfere with DaTSCAN imaging include pergolide. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Where it is necessary to administer radioactive medicinal products to women of childbearing potential, 
information should always be sought about pregnancy. Any woman who has missed a period should be 
assumed pregnant until proven otherwise. Where uncertainty exists, it is important that radiation 
exposure should be the minimum consistent with achieving satisfactory imaging. Alternative techniques 
which do not involve ionising radiation should be considered. 
Pregnancy 
Animal reproductive toxicity studies have not been performed with this product. Radionuclide 
procedures carried out on pregnant women also involve radiation doses to the foetus. Administration of 
185 MBq of ioflupane (123I) results in an absorbed dose to the uterus of 3.0 mGy. DaTSCAN is 
contraindicated in pregnancy (see section 4.3). 
Breastfeeding 
It is not known whether ioflupane (123I) is excreted in human milk.  Before administering a radioactive 
medicinal product to a breast-feeding mother, consideration should be given as to whether the 
investigation could be reasonably delayed until the mother has ceased breast-feeding and as to whether 
the most appropriate choice of radiopharmaceutical has been made, bearing in mind the secretion of 
radioactivity in breast milk. If administration is considered necessary, breast-feeding should be 
interrupted for 3 days and substituted by formula feeding. During this time, breast milk should be 
expressed at regular intervals and the expressed feeds should be discarded. 
Fertility 
No fertility studies have been performed. No data are available. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
DaTSCAN has no known influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
The following undesirable effects are recognised for DaTSCAN: 
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
The frequencies of adverse reactions are defined as follows: 
Very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100), rare (≥
1/10,000 to <1/1,000), very rare (<1/10,000) and not known (cannot be estimated from the available 
data).  Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness.   
Immune system disorders 
Not known: Hypersensitivity  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Uncommon: Appetite increased 
Nervous system disorders 
Common: Headache 
Uncommon: Dizziness, formication (paraesthesia), dysgeusia 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Uncommon: Vertigo 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Not known: Erythema, pruritus, rash, urticaria, hyperhidrosis 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Not known: Dyspnea 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Uncommon: Nausea, dry mouth 
Not known: Vomiting 
Vascular disorders 
Not known: Blood pressure decreased 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Uncommon: Injection site pain (intense pain or burning sensation following administration into small 
veins)  
Not known: Feeling hot 
Exposure to ionising radiation is linked with cancer induction and a potential for development of 
hereditary defects.  As the effective dose is 4.63 mSv when the maximal recommended activity of  
185 MBq is administered these adverse events are expected to occur with a low probability. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
In cases of overdose of radioactivity, frequent micturition and defaecation should be encouraged in 
order to minimise radiation dose to the patient. Care should be taken to avoid contamination from the 
radioactivity eliminated by the patient using such methods. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Diagnostic radiopharmaceutical central nervous system,  
ATC code: V09AB03. 
Due to the low quantities of ioflupane injected, pharmacological effects are not expected following 
intravenous administration of DaTSCAN at the recommended dosage. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mechanism of action 
Ioflupane is a cocaine analogue. Studies in animals have shown that ioflupane binds with high affinity to 
the presynaptic dopamine transporter and so radiolabelled ioflupane (123I) can be used as a surrogate 
marker to examine the integrity of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons. Ioflupane also binds to the 
serotonin transporter on 5-HT neurons but with lower (approximately 10-fold) binding affinity. 
There is no experience in types of tremor other than essential tremor. 
Clinical efficacy 
Clinical studies in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies 
In a pivotal clinical trial including evaluation of 288 subjects with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) 
(144 subjects), Alzheimer’s disease (124 subjects), vascular dementia (9 subjects) or other (11 subjects), 
the results of an independent, blinded visual assessment of the DaTSCAN images were compared to the 
clinical diagnosis as determined by physicians experienced in the management and diagnosis of 
dementias.  Clinical categorisation into the respective dementia group was based on a standardised and 
comprehensive clinical and neuropsychiatric evaluation.  The values for the sensitivity of DaTSCAN in 
determining probable DLB from non-DLB ranged from 75.0% to 80.2% and specificity from 88.6% to 
91.4%.  The positive predictive value ranged from 78.9% to 84.4% and the negative predictive value 
from 86.1% to 88.7%. Analyses in which both possible and probable DLB patients were compared with 
non-DLB dementia patients demonstrated values for the sensitivity of DaTSCAN ranging from 75.0% 
to 80.2% and specificity from 81.3% to 83.9% when the possible DLB patients were included as 
non-DLB patients. The sensitivity ranged from 60.6% to 63.4% and specificity from 88.6% to 91.4% 
when the possible DLB patients were included as DLB patients. 
Clinical studies demonstrating adjunctive use of semi-quantitative information for image interpretation 
The reliability of using semi-quantitative information as an adjunct to visual inspection was analysed in 
four clinical studies where sensitivity, specificity or overall accuracy between the two methods of image 
interpretation were compared. In the four studies (total n=578), CE-marked DaTSCAN 
semi-quantitation software was used. The differences (i.e., improvements when adding 
semi-quantitative information to visual inspection) in sensitivity ranged between 0.1% and 5.5%, in 
specificity between 0.0% and 2.0%, and in overall accuracy between 0.0% and 12.0%. 
The biggest of these four studies retrospectively assessed a total of 304 DaTSCAN exams from 
previously conducted Phase 3 or 4 studies, which included subjects with a clinical diagnosis of PS, 
non-PS (mainly ET), probable DLB, and non-DLB (mainly AD). Five nuclear medicine physicians who 
had limited prior experience with DaTSCAN interpretation assessed the images in 2 readings (alone and 
combined with semi-quantitative data provided by DaTQUANT 4.0 software) at least 1 month apart.  
These results were compared with the subject’s 1-to 3-year follow-up diagnosis to determine diagnostic 
accuracy. The improvements in sensitivity and specificity [with 95% confidence intervals] were 0.1% 
[-6.2%,6.4%] and 2.0% [-3.0%,7.0%]. Also, the results of the combined reading were associated with an 
increase in reader confidence. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Distribution 
Ioflupane (123I) is cleared rapidly from the blood after intravenous injection; only 5% of the administered 
activity remains in whole blood at 5 minutes post-injection.  
Organ uptake 
Uptake in the brain is rapid, reaching about 7% of injected activity at 10 minutes post-injection and 
decreasing to 3% after 5 hours. About 30% of the whole brain activity is attributed to striatal uptake.  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elimination 
At 48 hours post-injection, approximately 60% of the injected radioactivity is excreted in the urine, with 
faecal excretion calculated at approximately 14%. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data for ioflupane reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of 
safety pharmacology, single and repeated dose toxicity and genotoxicity. 
Studies on reproductive toxicity and to assess the carcinogenic potential of ioflupane have not been 
performed. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Acetic acid 
Sodium acetate 
Ethanol 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable 
6.3  Shelf-life 
2.5 ml vial: 7 hours from the activity reference time stated on the label.   
5 ml vial: 20 hours from the activity reference time stated on the label.    
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 25oC. Do not freeze. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
2.5  or  5  ml  solution  in  a  single  colourless  10 ml  glass  vial  sealed  with  a  rubber  closure  and  metal 
overseal.  
Pack size of 1. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling  
General warning 
Normal safety precautions for handling radioactive materials should be observed.  
Disposal 
After use, all materials associated with the preparation and administration of radiopharmaceuticals, 
including any unused product and its container, should be decontaminated or treated as radioactive 
waste and disposed of in accordance with the conditions specified by the local competent authority. 
Contaminated material must be disposed of as radioactive waste via an authorised route. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
GE Healthcare B.V. 
De Rondom 8 
5612 AP, Eindhoven  
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/00/135/001 (2.5 ml) 
EU/1/00/135/002 (5 ml) 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 27 July 2000 
Date of latest renewal:  28 July 2010 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
11  DOSIMETRY 
Iodine-123 has a physical half-life of 13.2 hours. It decays emitting gamma radiation with a predominant 
energy of 159 keV and X-rays of 27 keV. 
The estimated absorbed radiation doses to an average adult patient (70 kg) from intravenous injection of 
ioflupane (123I) are listed in the Table below. The values are calculated assuming urinary bladder 
emptying at 4.8-hour intervals and appropriate thyroid blocking (Iodine-123 is a known Auger electron 
emitter). Frequent bladder emptying should be encouraged after dosing to minimise radiation exposure.  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Target Organ 
Adrenals 
Bone surface 
Brain 
Breast 
Gallbladder wall 
Gastrointestinal tract 
      Stomach wall 
      Small intestine wall 
      Colon wall 
      (Upper large intestine wall 
      (Lower large intestine wall 
Heart wall 
Kidneys 
Liver 
Lungs 
Muscles 
Oesophagus 
Ovaries 
Pancreas 
Red marrow 
Salivary glands 
Skin 
Spleen 
Testes 
Thymus 
Thyroid 
Urinary bladder wall 
Uterus 
Remaining organs 
Effective Dose (µSv/MBq) 
Absorbed radiation dose 
µGy/MBq 
17.0 
15.0 
16.0  
 7.3  
 44.0 
 12.0 
  26.0 
  59.0 
   57.0) 
   62.0) 
  32.0 
  13.0 
  85.0 
  42.0 
   8.9 
   9.4 
 18.0 
 17.0 
   9.3 
 41.0 
  5.2 
 26.0 
  6.3 
  9.4 
  6.7 
 35.0 
 14.0 
 10.0 
 25.0  
Ref.: Publication 128 of the Annals of ICRP (Radiation dose to Patients from Radiopharmaceuticals: A Compendium  
of Current Information Related to Frequently Used Substances, 2015 
The effective dose (E) resulting from administration of 185 MBq of DaTSCAN injection is 4.63 mSv 
(per 70 kg individual). The above data are valid in normal pharmacokinetic behaviour. When renal or 
hepatic function is impaired, the effective dose and the radiation dose delivered to organs might be 
increased.  
12 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF RADIOPHARMACEUTICALS 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. See also section 6.6. 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND 
USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
GE Healthcare B.V. 
De Rondom 8 
5612 AP, Eindhoven 
The Netherlands 
B.   CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.   CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE 
USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Not applicable
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
5 ml presentation 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
DaTSCAN 74 MBq/ml solution for injection.  
Ioflupane (123I)  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml of solution contains ioflupane (123I) 74 MBq at reference time (0.07 to 0.13 μg/ml of ioflupane).  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
5% ethanol (see leaflet for further information), acetic acid, sodium acetate, water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection  
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 20 h post-ref. 
Ref.: 370 MBq/5 ml at 2300 CET on DD/MM/YYYY 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Do not freeze. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Handling and disposal – see package leaflet. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
GE Healthcare B.V. 
De Rondom 8 
5612 AP, Eindhoven  
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/00/135/002  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot  
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15.     INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE 
16.     INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted 
17.     UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable 
18.     UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
5 ml presentation 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
DaTSCAN 74 MBq/ml solution for injection. 
Ioflupane (123I)  
Intravenous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 20 h post-ref. 
Ref.: 370 MBq/5 ml ioflupane (123I) at 2300 CET on DD/MM/YYYY. 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot  
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
5 ml 
6. 
OTHER  
GE Healthcare B.V. 
De Rondom 8 
5612 AP, Eindhoven 
The Netherlands 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
2.5 ml presentation 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
DaTSCAN 74 MBq/ml solution for injection 
Ioflupane (123I)  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml of solution contains ioflupane (123I) 74 MBq at reference time (0.07 to 0.13 μg/ml of ioflupane).  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
5% ethanol (see leaflet for further information), acetic acid, sodium acetate, water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 7 h post-ref. 
Ref.: 185 MBq/2.5 ml at 1200 CET on DD/MM/YYYY 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Do not freeze. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Handling and disposal – see package leaflet. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
GE Healthcare B.V. 
De Rondom 8 
5612 AP, Eindhoven  
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/00/135/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot  
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15.     INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE 
16.     INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted 
17.     UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Not applicable 
18.     UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
Not applicable 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
2.5 ml presentation 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
DaTSCAN 74 MBq/ml solution for injection 
Ioflupane (123I)  
Intravenous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 7 h post-ref. 
Ref.: 185 MBq/2.5 ml ioflupane (123I) at 1200 CET on DD/MM/YYYY 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot  
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
2.5 ml 
6. 
OTHER  
GE Healthcare B.V. 
De Rondom 8 
5612 AP, Eindhoven 
The Netherlands 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
DaTSCAN 74 MBq/ml solution for injection 
Ioflupane (123I) 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
− 
− 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your nuclear medicine doctor who will supervise the 
procedure. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your nuclear medicine doctor. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
− 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What DaTSCAN is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before DaTSCAN is used 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How DaTSCAN is used 
Possible side effects 
How DaTSCAN is stored 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What DaTSCAN is and what it is used for  
DaTSCAN contains the active substance ioflupane (123I) which is used to help identify (diagnose) 
conditions in the brain. It belongs to a group of medicines called “radiopharmaceuticals”, which contain 
a small amount of radioactivity.  
• 
• 
• 
When a radiopharmaceutical is injected, it collects in a specific organ or area of the body for a 
short time.  
Because it contains a small amount of radioactivity it can be detected from outside the body using 
special cameras.  
A picture, known as a scan, can be taken. This scan will show exactly where the radioactivity is 
inside the organ and the body. This can give the doctor valuable information about how that organ 
is working. 
When DaTSCAN is injected into an adult, it is carried around the body in the blood. It collects in a small 
area of your brain. Changes in this area of the brain occur in: 
• 
• 
Parkinsonism (including Parkinson’s disease) and  
dementia with Lewy bodies.  
A scan will give your doctor information about any changes in this area of your brain. Your doctor may 
feel that the scan would help in finding out more about your condition and deciding on possible 
treatment. 
When DaTSCAN is used, you are exposed to small amounts of radioactivity. This exposure is less than 
in some types of X-ray investigation. Your doctor and the nuclear medicine doctor have considered that 
the clinical benefit of this procedure with the radiopharmaceutical outweighs the risk of being exposed 
to these small amounts of radiation. 
This medicine is used for diagnostic use only. It is used only to identify illness. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before DaTSCAN is used 
DaTSCAN must not be used  
• 
• 
if you are allergic to ioflupane or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
if you are pregnant  
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your nuclear medicine doctor before using DaTSCAN if you have a moderate or severe problem 
with your kidneys or liver.  
Children and adolescents 
DaTSCAN is not recommended for children aged 0 to 18 years  
Other medicines and DaTSCAN 
Tell your nuclear medicine doctor if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines.  
Some medicines or substances can affect the way that DaTSCAN works.  
These include: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
buproprion (used to treat depression (sadness)) 
benzatropine (used to treat Parkinson’s disease) 
mazindol (reduces appetite, as a means to treat obesity)  
sertraline (used to treat depression (sadness)) 
methylphenidate (used to treat hyperactivity in children and narcolepsy (excessive sleepiness)) 
phentermine (reduces appetite, as a means to treat obesity)  
amfetamine (used to treat hyperactivity in children and narcolepsy (excessive sleepiness); also a 
drug of abuse) 
cocaine (sometimes used as an anaesthetic for nose surgery; also a drug of abuse) 
• 
Some medicines may reduce the quality of the picture obtained. The doctor may ask you to stop taking 
them for a short time before you receive DaTSCAN.  
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Do not use DaTSCAN if you are pregnant or think you may possibly be pregnant. This is because the 
child may receive some of the radioactivity. Tell your nuclear medicine doctor if you think you might be 
pregnant.  Alternative techniques which do not involve radioactivity should be considered. 
If you are breast-feeding, your nuclear medicine doctor may delay the use of DaTSCAN, or ask you to 
stop breast-feeding. It is not known whether ioflupane (123I) is passed into breast milk.  
• 
• 
• 
You should not breast-feed your child for 3 days after DaTSCAN is given.  
Instead use formula feed for your child. Express your breast milk regularly and throw away any 
breast milk you have expressed.  
You will need to continue to do this for 3 days, until the radioactivity is no longer in your body.   
Driving and using machines 
DaTSCAN has no known influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
DaTSCAN contains alcohol (ethanol) 5 % by volume. Each dose contains up to 197 mg alcohol. This is 
about the same as 5 ml beer, or 2 ml wine. This is harmful for those suffering from alcoholism and needs 
to be taken into account in pregnant or breastfeeding women, children and high risk groups such as 
patients with liver disease or epilepsy. Tell your doctor if any of these apply to you.  
3.  How DaTSCAN is used 
There are strict laws on the use, handling and disposal of radioactivity. DaTSCAN will always be used 
in a hospital or a similar place. It will only be handled and given to you by people who are trained and 
qualified to use it safely. They should tell you anything you need to do for the safe use of this medicine. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your nuclear medicine doctor will decide the dose that is best for you.  
Before you receive DaTSCAN, your nuclear medicine doctor will ask you to take some tablets or liquid 
that contain iodine. These stop the radioactivity building-up in your thyroid gland. It is important that 
you take the tablets or liquid as the doctor tells you. 
DaTSCAN is given to you as an injection, usually into a vein in your arm. The recommended 
radioactivity given by injection is between 111 to 185 MBq (megabequerel or MBq is a unit used to 
measure radioactivity). A single injection is enough. The camera pictures are usually taken 3 to 6 hours 
after the injection of DaTSCAN. 
If you are given more DaTSCAN than you should 
Since DaTSCAN is given by a doctor under controlled conditions, it is unlikely that you will get an 
overdose. Your nuclear medicine doctor will suggest that you drink plenty of fluids to help the body get 
rid of the medicine. You will need to be careful with the water (urine) that you pass - your doctor will tell 
you what to do. This is normal practice with medicines like DaTSCAN. Any ioflupane (123I) which 
remains in your body will naturally lose its radioactivity. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your nuclear medicine doctor who 
supervises the procedure.  
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, DaTSCAN can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
The frequency of side effects is: 
Common:  may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
-  Headache 
Uncommon:  may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
-  Increased appetite 
-  Dizziness 
-  Taste disturbance 
-  Nausea 
-  Dry mouth 
-  Vertigo 
-  A brief irritating feeling similar to ants crawling over your skin (formication) 
-  Intense pain (or burning sensation) at the injection site. This has been reported among   
    patients receiving DaTSCAN into a small vein.  
Not known:  frequency cannot be estimated from the available data. 
-  Hypersensitivity (allergic) 
-  Shortness of breath   
-  Redness of the skin   
-  Itching   
-  Rash 
-  Hives (urticaria) 
-  Excessive sweating   
-  Vomiting 
-  Low blood pressure   
-  Feeling hot 
The amount of radioactivity in the body from DaTSCAN is very small. It will be passed out of the body 
in a few days without need for you to take special precautions.  
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your nuclear medicine doctor. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed 
in Appendix V.  By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine.  
5.  How DaTSCAN is stored 
You will not have to store this medicine. This medicine is stored under the responsibility of the specialist 
in appropriate premises. Storage of radiopharmaceuticals will be in accordance with national regulation 
on radioactive materials.  
The following information is intended for the specialist only: 
• 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not store above 25°C.  
Do not freeze. 
• 
• 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and vial after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month.  Hospital staff will ensure that the product is stored and 
thrown away correctly and not used after the expiry date stated on the label.  
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What DaTSCAN contains 
• 
The active substance is ioflupane (123I). Each ml of solution contains ioflupane (123I) 74 MBq at  
reference time (0.07 to 0.13 μg/ml of ioflupane).  
The other ingredients are acetic acid, sodium acetate, ethanol and water for injections. 
• 
What DaTSCAN looks like and contents of the pack 
DaTSCAN is a 2.5 or 5 ml colourless solution for injection, supplied in a single colourless 10 ml glass 
vial sealed with a rubber closure and metal overseal.   
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
GE Healthcare B.V. 
De Rondom 8 
5612 AP, Eindhoven  
The Netherlands 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien  
GE Healthcare  
Tél/Tel: +32 (0) 2 719 7410 
България 
GE Healthcare Bulgaria EOOD 
Teл: +359 2 9712040 
Lietuva 
VitaFARMA UAB 
Tel.: +370 37 225322 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg  
GE Healthcare  
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0) 2 719 7410 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Česká republika 
M.G.P. spol. s r.o. 
Tel.: +420 577 212 140 
Danmark 
GE Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 70 2222 03 
Magyarország 
Radizone Diagnost-X Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 787-5720 
Malta 
Pharma-Cos Ltd. 
Tel: + 356 22266300 
Deutschland 
GE Healthcare Buchler GmbH & Co. KG 
Tel: +49 (0) 5 307 93 00 
Nederland 
GE Healthcare B.V. 
Tel: +31 (0) 40 299 10 00  
Eesti 
GE Healthcare Estonia OÜ 
Tel: +372 6260 061 
Ελλάδα 
GE Healthcare A.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 8930600 
Norge 
GE Healthcare AS 
Tlf: +47 23 18 50 50 
Österreich 
GE Healthcare Handels GmbH 
Tel: +43 (0) 1 97272-0 
España 
GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences, S.A.U 
Tel: +34 91 663 25 00 
Polska 
GE Medical Systems Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +4822 330 83 00 
France 
GE Healthcare SAS 
Tél: +33 1 34 49 54 54 
Hrvatska 
BIOVIT d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385 42 260 001 
Ireland 
GE Healthcare Limited UK 
Tel: +44 (0) 1494 54 5306 
Ísland 
Icepharma 
Sími: + 354 540 8000 
Italia 
GE Healthcare S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 02 26001 111 
Κύπρος 
Phadisco Ltd 
Τηλ: +357 22 715000 
Portugal 
Satis – GE Healthcare 
Tel: +351 214251352 
România 
MagnaPharm Marketing & Sales Romania 
S.R.L. 
Tel: + 40 372 502 221 
Slovenija 
Biomedis M.B. trgovina d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 2 4716300 
Slovenská republika 
MGP, spol. s r. o. 
Tel: +421 2 5465 4841 
Suomi/Finland 
Oy GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences Ab 
Puh/Tel: +358 10 39411 
Sverige 
GE Healthcare AB 
Tel: +46 (0) 8 559 504 00 
Latvija 
General Electric International Inc. 
Tel: +371 6780 7086 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
GE Healthcare Limited 
Tel: +44(0)1494 54 5306 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This leaflet was last revised in <{MM/YYYY} 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site; 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
