SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION  
1.1. 
Introduction 
DaTSCAN  contains  the  active  ingredient  [123I]  ioflupane  (also  known  as  [123I]  FP-CIT),  which  is  a 
radioiodinated cocaine analogue. The product is an 123I-labelled synthetic tropane derivative that binds 
with high affinity to the pre-synaptic dopamine transporter protein (DAT) located on the presynaptic 
nerve  endings  (axon  terminals)  in  the  striatum.  The  axon  terminals  are  projections  of  the  dopamine 
neurones  in  the  substantia  nigra.  Therefore,  DaTSCAN  acts  as  a  biomarker  of  loss  of  functional 
dopaminergic  neuron  terminals  (e.g.,  for  detection  of  the  striatal  degeneration  that  is  present  in 
Parkinson’s disease [PD]). It has been developed as a dopamine transporter-imaging agent for single 
photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). 
The  efficacy  of  DaTSCAN  in  detecting  the  loss  of  functional  dopaminergic  neuron  terminals  in 
patients with parkinsonian syndromes (PS) has  been demonstrated. Two presentations of DaTSCAN 
(2.5  ml  and  5.0  ml)  are  registered  in  the  European  Union,  the  former  since  2000..  The  current 
indication is as follows:   
“DaTSCAN  is  indicated  for  detecting  loss  of  functional  dopaminergic  neuron  terminals  in  the 
striatum  of  patients  with  clinically  uncertain  Parkinsonian  Syndromes  (PS),  in  order  to  help 
differentiate  Essential  Tremor  from  Parkinsonian  Syndromes  related  to  idiopathic  Parkinson’s 
Disease,  Multiple  System  Atrophy  and  Progressive  Supranuclear  Palsy.  DaTSCAN  is  unable  to 
discriminate  between  Parkinson's  disease,  Multiple  System  Atrophy  and  Progressive  Supranuclear 
Palsy.” 
In  this  present  application,  the  MAH  is  proposing  to  extend  the  indication  to  use  DaTSCAN  as  an 
adjunct to the clinical diagnosis of Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) as follows: 
 “to help differentiate dementia with Lewy bodies from other forms of dementia”. 
Rationale for the proposed change 
DLB, the second most frequent cause of degenerative dementia in elderly adults (after Alzheimer 
disease), is a neurodegenerative disorder associated with abnormal structures (Lewy bodies) found in 
certain areas of the brain. Lewy bodies (LB) are intracytoplasmic, spherical, eosinophilic neuronal 
inclusion bodies. The areas of predilection for LB are brainstem, subcortical nuclei, limbic cortex and 
neocortex and their accumulation results in a loss of functional dopaminergic neuron terminals in the 
striatum1. 
In  1996,  an  international  workshop  published  consensus  guidelines  for  the  clinical  and  pathologic 
diagnosis of DLB1 [International Consensus Criteria (ICC)], revised in 20052 to describe the criteria 
for  the  clinical  diagnosis  of  DLB.  The  revised  criteria  already  include  low  dopamine  transporter 
uptake in basal ganglia demonstrated by SPECT or PET imaging” as a suggestive feature. Indeed, if 
one  or  more  of  the  suggestive  features  is  present  in  the  presence  of  one  or  more  core  features 
(fluctuating  cognition,  recurrent  visual  hallucinations  and  spontaneous  features  of  parkinsonism),  a 
diagnosis of probable DLB can be made”. The ICC for probable DLB, which have been prospectively 
validated on the basis of post-mortem data3, have demonstrated a sensitivity of 83% and a specificity 
of 95%. 
The  diagnosis  of  DLB  requires  thorough  clinical  assessment  including  a  detailed  medical  history 
(from  patient  and  carer)  and  a  full  mental  state,  cognitive  and  physical  examination  (including  a 
1 McKeith IG, and al. Consensus guidelines for the clinical and pathologic diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies. 
Neurology 1996;47:1113-1114 
2 McKeith IG, and al. Diagnosis and management of dementia with Lewy bodies. Neurology 2005;65(12):1863-72 
3 McKeith IG, and al. Prospective validation of consensus criteria for the diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies. 
Neurology.2000a;54:1050-8 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
neuropsychiatric examination with emphasis on eliciting core features) by a clinician experienced in 
dementia. The rationale of this new diagnostic extension put forward by the MAH is that DLB patients 
have specific treatment requirements and functional disabilities that differ from those of other forms of 
dementia and that require specialised, often multi-disciplinary treatment. 
Fluctuating cognition, hallucinations and/or sleep disorders, which are infrequent in Alzheimer disease 
(AD) and vascular dementia (VaD) patients, can be particularly disturbing to the DLB patient and their 
family members (or carer). DLB patients may deteriorate more quickly and/or require more intensive 
and more specialised care than do AD patients. This implies intense training of the family member(s) 
and/or in a nursing home of the caregiver(s) involved. 
The importance of correct diagnosis lies also in the pharmacological management. DLB patients often 
respond  well  to  cholinesterase  inhibitors  which  have  been  shown  to  substantially  improve  both 
cognitive  and  neuropsychiatric  symptoms4.  In  DLB  patients,  severe  sensitivity  reactions  (in  50%  of 
the  patients)  upon  administration  of  D2  antagonist  neuroleptics  are  associated  with  significantly 
increased  morbidity  and  a  2-  to  3-fold  increase  in  mortality5.  Sensitivity  reactions  to  the  newer 
atypical  anti-psychotics  have  also  been  documented  and  the  above  recently  published  treatment 
guidelines  recommend  that  even  these  newer  generation  neuroleptics  should  be  avoided  whenever 
possible. It should be noted, however, that no typical or atypical neuroleptic is formally indicated in 
dementia  and  all  atypical  neuroleptics  have  a  warning  in  their  SPC  about  the  increased  mortality  in 
this population. Recent studies show that some DLB subjects may benefit from levodopa treatment of 
extrapyramidal motor symptoms, although this should be titrated carefully and be administered at the 
lowest  possible  dose  to  minimise  side  effects  (most  notably  visual  hallucinations  or  increased 
confusion). 
3.2.  Non clinical aspects 
As  stated,  ioflupane  binds  with  high  affinity  to  striatal  pre-synaptic  dopamine  transporter  protein 
(DAT)  in  animals  and  in  humans  and  acts  as  a  biomarker  for  loss  of  functional  nigrostriatal  neuron 
terminals. 
In this variation it is proposed to expand the current indication to use DaTSCAN as an adjunct to the 
clinical  diagnosis  of  DLB.  DaTSCAN  will  be  administered  by  the  same  route  of  administration 
(intravenous injection) used in the currently approved indication, and targeted to the same brain region 
(dopamine transporters in the striatum). The administered pharmacological and radioactive doses will 
be  the  same,  and  the  mechanism  of  action  is  expected  to  be  the  same,  and  therefore  the  nonclinical 
documentation provided in the earlier application is also relevant to the current application.  
Recently  published  studies  in  animals  (primates  and  rats)  have  indicated  a  possible  interaction 
between ChE inhibitors and the availability of the DAT in the brain. This might constitute an efficacy 
issue in imaging with DaTSCAN if these drugs bind to or in other ways modulate the availability of 
the  DAT.  Possible  interactions  between  the  ChE  inhibitor  rivastigmine  used  for  DLB  patients  and 
DaTSCAN have therefore been evaluated.  
Pharmacodynamic drug interaction study 
The MAH investigated the effect of rivastigmine (a ChE inhibitor commonly administered to patients 
with  DLB)  on  the  uptake  and  retention  of  ioflupane  via  the  dopamine  transporter  in  brain  tissues 
(striatum, cerebellum and hypothalamus) of Wistar rats in vivo.. The CNS stimulant methylphenidate 
was used as a positive control in the study, since it is known to reduce DaTSCAN striatal uptake by 
binding  strongly  to  the  DAT  (i.e.  by  competing  with  ioflupane  binding  to  the  DAT).  The  dose  of 
methylphenidate  (10  mg/kg  b.wt.)  and  the  time  interval  between  the  oral  administration  of 
4 McKeith and al. Efficacy of rivastigmine in dementia with Lewy bodies: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
international study. Lancet 2000a; 356:2031-6 
5 McKeith, and al. 1992; Ballard and al. 1998 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
methylphenidate and injection of DaTSCAN (2 hours) were selected according to the known kinetics 
of striatal uptake of orally administered methylphenidate to rats. 
Three groups of rats were each given an oral dose of one of the following:  
1.  Methylphenidate  (10mg/kg/bw,  n=4)  -  positive  control;  known  to  reduce  ioflupane  striatal 
uptake by competitively binding to the DAT. 
2.  Rivastigmine (2.5mg/kg/bw, n=5) – the test agent. 
3.  Saline (1.2ml/kg/bw, n=5) – vehicle control  
An intravenous bolus injection of DaTSCAN (100μCi, 3.7 MBq; 4ng of ioflupane) was administered 
40 minutes after the methylphenidate and 2 hours after the rivastigmine and saline. 
All  rats  were  anaesthetised  with  a  mixture  of  xylazine/ketamine  (2/1:  v/v;  0.1  ml/100  g  b.wt. 
intramuscularly) before an intravenous injection of DaTSCAN in the tail vein was administered The 
use  of  anaesthetics  was  assumed  not  to  influence  the  outcome  of  the  study  since  the  test  substance 
(rivastigmine)  was  given  2  hours  before  anaesthesia.  Therefore,  based  on  known  kinetics  of 
rivastigmine  in  the  brain,  it  had  already  exerted its  effect  on  the  DAT  at  the  time  anaesthetics  were 
given. 
At  2  hours  after  administration  of  DaTSCAN,  the  animals  were  sacrificed  and  samples  of  selected 
brain tissues (striatum, hypothalamus, occipital cortex and cerebellum) were excised, weighed and the 
123I radioactivity was measured in a gamma counter.  
The  occipital  cortex  and  the  cerebellum  are  both  devoid  of  DAT  binding  sites.  The  uptake  in  the 
occipital  cortex  or  in  the  cerebellum  is  therefore  often  taken  to  reflect  non-specific  uptake.  The 
numerator in these ratios (striatum–cerebellum) and (striatum–occipital cortex) i.e. total uptake minus 
non-specific  uptake,  reflects  specific  DAT-mediated  uptake  in  the  striatum.  The  ratios  (striatum–
cerebellum)/cerebellum  and  (striatum–occipital  cortex)/occipital  cortex  i.e.  ratios  of  specific-to-non-
specific uptake, when stable in time, are assumed to be proportional to the number of available DAT 
binding  sites.  Similarly,  the  ratio  (hypothalamus–occipital  cortex)/occipital  cortex  is  assumed  to 
reflect  serotonin  transporter  (SET)  mediated  uptake  in  the  hypothalamus  versus  non-specific 
hypothalamic  uptake  (the  hypothalamus  expresses  SET  to  which  DaTSCAN  also  binds,  and  the 
hypothalamus does not express DAT). 
The  ratios  (striatum–cerebellum)/cerebellum  and  (striatum–occipital  cortex)/occipital  cortex  were 
found  to  be  statistically  significantly  lower  (p<0.05)  in  the  methylphenidate  group  versus  the  saline 
group and the rivastigmine group. The same ratios were not statistically significantly different between 
the  saline  group  and  the  rivastigmine  group.  No  statistically  significant  effect  (p<0.05)  between  the 
groups for the ratio (hypothalamus–cerebellum)/cerebellum was detected. 
3.3  Clinical aspects 
DaTSCAN is approved for use as an intravenous single dose between 111 and 185 MBq activity, and 
this  dose  is  also  recommended  for  the  new  claimed  indication.  No  additional  clinical  pharmacology 
studies  have  been  performed  for  this  application  because  distribution,  metabolism  and  excretion  of 
DaTSCAN are considered the same  as in the previous population and because the aim being still to 
visualize the loss of functional dopaminergic neuron terminals. 
3.3.1  Clinical efficacy 
Clinical Studies
The clinical development program of DaTSCAN included efficacy data obtained from 2 investigator-
initiated  studies,  so  called  “proof-of-concept  studies”,  and  1  pivotal,  clinical  open  phase  3  study 
(PDT301) performed by the MAH in adults who presented DLB or other forms of dementia depending 
of study and in healthy volunteers (control subjects).  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.3.1.1. Proof-of-concept studies 
There were 2 proof of concept studies designed to assess whether DaTSCAN SPECT imaging for 
DLB is a useful clinical diagnostic marker for discriminating DLB from Alzheimer’s disease (AD).  
Subjects diagnosed with DLB, AD, Parkinson’s disease (PD) and similarly aged controls were 
enrolled into both studies.  In the Newcastle study, patients were also recruited with Parkinson’s 
disease with dementia (PDD). 
SPECT (Single-Photon Emission Computed Tomography) imaging was undertaken after a bolus 
intravenous injection of 150-185 MBq of DaTSCAN.  Images were evaluated on-site using region of 
interest based analysis (ROI) and a blinded visual qualitative assessment of all images, undertaken by 
3 readers in the “Middlesex study” and by 3 readers in the “Newcastle study”. The images were 
independently randomised and blinded from clinical data before being presented to each reader. In 
both studies, images were graded independently by each reader and a consensus taken if there had 
been no complete agreement between all readers. 
•  Newcastle  Study  (2000/2002)  O'Brien  J.  Dopamine  transporter  loss  visualised  with  FP-CIT 
SPECT in Dementia with Lewy bodies. Archives of Neurology 2004;61:919-925.  
Study design 
This was a cross sectional study of cohorts of patients and similarly aged controls. Subjects underwent 
a  detailed  physical,  neurological  and  psychiatric  examination.  The  standard  of  truth  was  the  clinical 
diagnosis  determined  by  consensus  between  three  clinicians  (1  psychiatrist  and  2  neurologists). 
SPECT  imaging  was  undertaken  using a  triple-headed  rotating gamma  camera  4  hours  after  a  bolus 
intravenous injection of 150 MBq of DaTSCAN. 
This study pursued two aims:  
1.- validation of the International Consensus Criteria (ICC) for the clinical diagnosis of DLB  
2.- assessment of the relationship between DaTSCAN image findings and the clinical diagnosis.  
Study population 
The  number  of  subjects  in  this  study  was  164  subjects:  AD  (NINDS/ADRDA  National  Institute  for 
Neurological  and  Communication  Diseases  and  Society  and  the  Alzheimer’s  Disease  and  Related 
Disorders Association criteria) (n=34; mean age 78.9), PD (UK Brain Bank criteria) (n=38; mean age 
75.6), DLB (ICC 1996) (n=23; mean age probable DLB 75.9), PDD (International Consensus Criteria) 
(n=36; mean age 72.1) and elderly control subjects (n=33; mean age 74.8). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
Endpoints 
Semi-quantitative  analysis  of  DaTSCAN  uptake  using  ROI  based  analysis  in  the  caudate,  anterior 
putamen and posterior putamen. The uptake was normalised to the occipital lobe to account for non-
specific binding. 
Statistical analysis  
Diagnostic discrimination (sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and likelihood ratios) were 
calculated  against the clinical diagnosis for separation of DLB, PD and PDD from controls  and AD 
subjects using both ROI analysis and visual ratings. DaTSCAN uptake between groups using analysis 
of variance (ANOVA) with post-hoc Gabriel tests. 
Results 
The  cohort  of  patients  originally  stemmed  from  a  UK  Medical  Research  Council  (MRC)  study 
established  in  Newcastle  in  1995  to  evaluate  the  clinical  and  pathological  characteristics  of  patients 
with DLB. Interim results of the MRC study (supportive study) were published. In the 50 cases having 
reached autopsy, the ICC criteria for “probable DLB” could be prospectively validated on the basis of 
histopathological  findings.  Twenty-six  clinical  diagnoses  of  DLB,  19  of  AD,  and  5  of  VaD  were 
made.  At  autopsy,  29  DLB  cases,  15  AD,  5  VaD,  and  1  progressive  supranuclear  palsy  were 
identified. The sensitivity, specificity and positive predictive value (PPV) of the clinical diagnosis of 
probable  DLB  in  this  sample  were  83%,  95%  and  90%,  respectively,  with  autopsy  as  the  absolute 
standard of truth. 
Based  on  clinical  diagnosis  being  interpreted  as  the  standard  of  truth,  both  ROI  analysis  and  visual 
ratings of DaTSCAN provided the following sensitivity and specificity between DLB and AD:  
ROI: sensitivity 78%, specificity 94%;  
visual ratings: sensitivity 78%, specificity 85%.  
As expected, neither ROI analysis nor visual ratings could differentiate DLB from PD and PDD.  
The  multi-reader  κ  statistic  for  agreement  between  the  5  readers  was  0.88  ±  0.02.  The  degree  of 
agreement between each reader and the final consensus rating was also calculated (κ values for each 
individual reader were 0.91, 0.94, 0.91, 0.91 and 0.93). 
•  Middlesex  Study  (1996/1999)  Walker  Z.  Differentiation  of  dementia  with  Lewy  bodies  from 
Alzheimer’s disease using a dopaminergic presynaptic ligand. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 
2002;73:134–140 
Study design 
This was a proof-of-concept study with a first cross-sectional phase and a second, longitudinal phase. 
The  aim  of  the  first  stage  was  to  compare  DaTSCAN  radio-uptake  ratios  in  the  caudate  nucleus, 
anterior  and  posterior  putamen  as  determined  by  semi-quantitative,  ROI-based  image  assessment  in 
patients  with  the  clinical  diagnoses  of  DLB,  PD  and  AD  and  in  controls.  The  baseline  clinical 
diagnosis  as  established  by  an  old-age  psychiatrist  following  a  comprehensive  clinical,  neurological 
and neuropsychiatric examination and based on internationally accepted diagnostic criteria served as 
reference standard for this cross-sectional study phase. 
The  aims  of  the  second  stage  of  the  study  were  to  determine  the  sensitivity  and  specificity  of  the 
following: 
1)  the  ROI-based  semi-quantitative  analysis  of  DaTSCAN  radio-uptake  ratios  in  the  caudate 
nucleus, anterior and posterior putamen when compared to the neuropathological diagnosis at 
autopsy as the standard of truth 
2)  the visual assessment of the DaTSCAN images analysed by 3 readers (who were blinded to all 
clinical  information)  when  compared  to  the  neuropathological  diagnosis  at  autopsy  as  the 
standard of truth 
3)  the clinical diagnosis (reference standard of the cross-sectional study phase) when compared 
to the neuropathological diagnosis at autopsy as the standard of truth. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study population  
The total number of subjects in this study was 80 subjects meeting criteria for AD (NINDS/ADRDA 
criteria) (n=17; mean age 78.0), PD (UK Brain Bank criteria) (n=19; mean age 64.9), DLB (ICC 1996) 
(n=27; mean age probable DLB 77.3), corticobasal degeneration (n=1) (cross-sectional diagnosis) and 
older control subjects (n=16; mean age 66.6). 
Statistical analysis  
ANOVA and Student’s t-test were used to assess for differences between the different groups (DLB, 
AD, PD and controls) in the DaTSCAN binding within the caudate nuclei and anterior and posterior 
putamen  regions.  Relationships  between  various  clinical  variables  and  uptake  ratios  were  explored 
using  Spearman’s  rank  correlations  for  ordinal  data.  Diagnostic  discrimination  between  DLB  and 
other dementias (sensitivity and specificity) was determined using the results of both the ROI-based 
and visual assessments. 
Results 
DaTSCAN regional uptake (semi-quantitative method) 
Both the DLB and PD groups had significantly lower radioactivity uptake in all striatal areas than the 
AD  group  and  controls  (ANOVA:  p<0.001,  contralateral  and  the  ipsilateral  caudate  nucleus  and 
anterior and posterior putamen). There were significant differences between DLB and AD, and DLB 
and controls for all ipsilateral and contralateral binding measures (p<0.001).  
Visual assessment of scans 
The agreement between the independent assessments of the specialist in nuclear medicine, the old-age 
psychiatrist and the neurologist was estimated by κ values, which were 0.85, 0.89 and 0.90. The visual 
rating  was  compared  with  the  semi-quantitative  results  by  defining  as  “abnormal”  any  scan  with 
contralateral posterior putamen binding which was more than two standard deviations below the mean 
of the controls (<3.02). The consensus visual rating (two or all three raters in agreement) and the semi-
quantitative rating gave the same result (normal or abnormal scan) in 72/79 scans (91%), with κ 0.82. 
Autopsies 
The  aims  of  the  second  stage  of  the  study  were  to  compare  the  results  with  the  neuropathological 
diagnosis at autopsy as the standard of truth. Analysis of the 17/80 post mortem data available showed 
a  sensitivity  of  DaTSCAN  SPECT  imaging  of  100%  with  semi-quantitative  rating  (ROI)  and  86% 
with  visual  rating,  and  a  specificity  of  90%  and  80%,  respectively,  compared  to  the  post  mortem 
autopsy diagnosis.  
The values for the clinical diagnosis were 86% for sensitivity and 30% for specificity. This marginal 
specificity  might  be  explained  by  the  fact  that  the  subjects  participating  were  all  recruited  between 
1996 and 1999, a time period in which the ICC criteria were first introduced and being evaluated and 
in which clinical assessment scales facilitating the detection/absence of fluctuating cognition were not 
yet  available.  Furthermore,  since  the  Middlesex  study  recruitment  period  predated  the  ICC,  it  relied 
solely  upon  the  clinical  diagnosis  of  a  single  investigator  and  did  not  adopt  the  Consensus  Panel 
approach used both in the Newcastle studies and in the pivotal study PDT301. This 3-way consensus 
method has previously been shown to have high validity against neuropathological diagnosis. In light 
of  the  Consensus  Panel  approach,  the  reliance  on  a  single  clinician  to  establish  diagnosis  was  a 
methodological weakness in the Middlesex study, which resulted in suboptimal diagnostic accuracy. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.3.1.2. Confirmatory study PDT301 (2003/2005) 
Study design 
This was a phase 3, multi-centre, open-label, non-randomised, single dose clinical study to assess the 
diagnostic efficacy and safety of DaTSCAN in subjects with DLB. 
The primary objective was to determine the diagnostic efficacy of the visual assessment of DaTSCAN 
SPECT images in differentiating between “probable DLB” and non-DLB subjects when compared to 
the  clinical  diagnosis  established  by  a  consensus  panel  (CP)  as  the  “standard  of  truth”.  Secondary 
objectives included determining the positive and negative predictive values. 
The absence of structural abnormalities in the basal ganglia had to be ruled out by cerebral magnetic 
resonance  imaging  (MRI)  or  computed  tomography  (CT)  imaging  to  be  performed  within  6  months 
prior to screening and the results had to be negative for vascular abnormalities indicative of infarction 
in the region of the basal ganglia. 
The  injection  of  DaTSCAN  was  open  but  it  was  planned  that  clinical  diagnosis  and  image  analysis 
were blind. 
Methodology 
For the efficacy assessment, the results of the DaTSCAN image analysis were compared to the clinical 
diagnosis. 
Study population 
The study population consisted of demented subjects (between 55 - 90 years of age) with features of 
probable  or  possible  DLB  and  subjects  with  features  of  non-DLB  (e.g.,  AD  or  VaD).  The  DLB 
subjects  were  selected  for  screening  from  movement  disorder  clinic  databases,  dementia  services, 
memory clinics, and other general neurology clinics. The distribution of evaluable DLB and non-DLB 
subjects was assessed on an ongoing basis during the study as determined by the clinical diagnosis of 
the on-site physician. 
The  subjects  presented  positive  assessment  for  dementia  in  accordance  with  the  Diagnostic  and 
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorder – Fourth Edition (DSM-IV) criteria and fulfilled at least one of 
the following: the ICC for probable or possible DLB, the NINCDS-ADRDA for AD, or the National 
Institute  of  Neurological  Disorders  and  Stroke  -  Association  Internationale  Pour  la  Recherche  et 
l’Enseignement en Neurosciences (NINDS-AIREN) for VaD. PDD patients were excluded (dementia 
occuring at least one year after PD diagnosis). 
Clinical diagnosis and “standard of truth” 
The clinical diagnosis was established using the ICC and based on a standardised and comprehensive 
clinical  and  neuropsychiatric  evaluation.  The  “standard  of  truth”  was  the  clinical  diagnosis  of  DLB 
(“probable”  or  “possible”)  versus  non-DLB  (probable  or  possible  AD,  probable  or  possible  VaD) 
established  by  an  independent  CP  (ICP)  consisting  of  3  internationally  recognised  experts  in  the 
diagnosis of dementia and in DLB in particular. Indeed, 2 of the ICP members had a leading role in 
the  Newcastle  study  and  were  intrumental  in  the  prospective  validation  of  the  original  ICC  against 
post-mortem  (see  Introduction).  The  CP  itself  was  validated  in  the  Newcastle  study,  where  the 
sensitivity was 83% (24/29 patients) and specificity was 90% (18/20 patients) - in this calculation both 
“probable”  and  “possible”  DLB  patients  are  assumed  to  be  DLB  patients.  In  addition,  retrospective 
data  from  10  subjects  who  had  been  diagnosed  with  DLB  or  AD  by  autopsy  were  given  to  the  3 
Consensus  Panel  members  used  in  study  PDT301  (who  were  blinded  to  these  patient’s  autopsy 
diagnosis), and they correctly diagnosed all of these patients. 
DaTSCAN SPECT imaging 
DaTSCAN  SPECT  images  were  obtained  as  recommended  in  the  SPC.  The  images  were  acquired 
using  a  multi-headed  (2-  or  3-headed)  gamma  camera  and  imaging  lasted  approximately  40-60 
minutes.  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Images  were  evaluated  at  the  independent  image  review  centre  (IRC)  in  Oslo,  Norway,  as  part  of  a 
blinded image evaluation (BIE) performed by 3 independent readers (nuclear physicians with expertise 
in neuroimaging). Images were evaluated both visually and by a semi-quantitative assessment (ROI). 
During visual assessment, each of 3 blinded readers classified the images as normal, abnormal or other 
(an image that could not be assigned to one of the aforementioned classes) described below: 
Normal  images:  Normal  images  were  characterised  by  uptake  of  the  tracer  in  both  right  and  left 
putamen and caudate nuclei. The image was largely symmetrical with approximately equal levels of 
uptake on both left and right sides. Activity was contained close to the centre of the image forming 2 
crescent shaped areas of uptake. 
-  Abnormal image type 1: Uptake is asymmetric with normal or almost normal putamen activity in 
1 hemisphere and a more marked change on the other side. 
-  Abnormal image type 2: Uptake was significantly reduced in the putamen on both the right and 
left sides. Activity was confined to the caudate nuclei and forms 2 roughly symmetrical, circular areas. 
-  Abnormal  image  type  3:  Uptake  was  virtually  absent  from  both  putamen  and  caudate  nuclei  on 
each  side  of  the  brain  resulting  in  a  significant  reduction  in  contrast  and  the  visualisation  of 
background activity throughout the rest of the image. 
-  Other: Option provided if an image could not be assigned to any of the categories above. 
The  semi-quantitative  assessment  was  a  ROI-based  analysis  to  determine  the  striatal  DAT  density 
calculated as the ratio of total specific striatal activity/non-specific activity. The striatal ROI data were 
analysed by 1 reader to examine the whole striatal, caudate, and putamen uptake in each hemisphere. 
Analysis  of  the  co-primary  efficacy  endpoints,  sensitivity  and  specificity,  was  solely  based  on  the 
division  of  the  above  classes  into  normal  or  abnormal  based  on  the  result  of  the  BIE.  The  3 
independent  blinded  readers  interpreted  the  DaTSCAN  images  individually,  with  the  images  being 
presented  to  the  readers  in  random  order.  The  readers  were  blinded  to  the  subject’s  personal  and 
clinical  information  except  for  the  subject’s  age.  Age  is  required  for  appropriate  evaluation  of  the 
SPECT  images  because  with  increasing  age,  the  nigrostriatal  DaTSCAN  uptake  decreases  and  the 
non-specific uptake increases due to overall decreased circulatory capacity. 
Efficacy variables 
The co-primary efficacy endpoints were sensitivity and specificity. 
Sensitivity and specificity (with DaTSCAN SPECT visual assessments and Consensus Panel clinical 
diagnosis) were defined as follows: 
Sensitivity=TP/(TP+FN) i.e. the percentage of times that the image diagnosis was DLB given that the 
clinical diagnosis was DLB.  
Specificity=TN/(TN+FP) i.e. the percentage of times that the image diagnosis was non-DLB given 
that the clinical diagnosis was non-DLB.  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
1.  Accuracy =(TP+TN)/(TP+FP+TN+FN) i.e. the percentage of times the image diagnosis matched 
the clinical diagnosis,  
Positive Predictive Value (PPV)=TP/(TP+FP) i.e. the percentage of times that the clinical diagnosis 
was DLB given that the image diagnosis was DLB 
Negative  Predictive  Value  (NPV)=TN/(TN+FN)    i.e.  the  percentage  of  times  that  the  clinical 
diagnosis was non-DLB given that the image diagnosis was non-DLB 
2.  Semi-quantitative  analysis  (ROI)  of  the  DaTSCAN  images  to  compare  striatal  uptake  ratios  of 
DaTSCAN between the 3 groups of probable, possible and non-DLB in specific regions of interest 
(i.e., striatum, caudate, and putamen in both hemispheres) 
3.  Assessment  of  the  impact  of  DaTSCAN  SPECT  visual  assessment  findings  on  the  on-site 
investigator’s ability to establish a diagnosis, to  make  management decisions  and thereof on the 
confidence of diagnosis by comparing pre- and post-imaging results 
4.  Summary of the proportions of abnormal DaTSCAN SPECT visual assessment findings in relation 
to the groups of probable DLB, possible DLB, and non-DLB as established by an independent CP 
Statistical Analyses 
For both diagnostic parameters, an exact 1-sided binomial test was used to test the null hypothesis H0: 
p ≤ p0. In this case, p0 represented a pre-defined threshold for sensitivity or specificity. The alternate 
hypothesis was given by H1: p > p0. The parameter p represented the sensitivity or specificity for an 
independent  blinded  reader’s  diagnosis  with  access  to  DaTSCAN  SPECT  imaging.  The  thresholds 
(p0) for sensitivity and specificity under the null hypothesis were respectively 0.65 and 0.73. Each test 
was conducted at the 0.025 significance level. 
Results  
A total of 351 patients were enrolled into this study and the patient disposition is given in the figure 
below. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 25 subjects were excluded prior to dosing; of these patients 14 had a clinical diagnosis (10 
non-DLB,  3  probable  DLB,  and  1  possible  DLB).  Although  there  is  an  imbalance  between  clinical 
diagnoses, with only 14 patients for which a clinical diagnoses are available, it is unlikely that these 
would alter the conclusions from this study. 
Efficacy  results  were  based  on  the  performance  of  3  blinded  image  readers  relative  to  the  CP 
diagnosis. 
-  Results of the CP assessment (surrogate “standard of truth”) 
All  cognitive,  neuropsychiatric,  neurological,  clinical,  and  laboratory  data  including  the  on-site 
investigator’s  clinical  diagnosis  and 
(non-
recommended 
pharmacological  measures,  ChE  inhibitors,  parkinsonian  agents,  neuroleptic  agents,  or  other)  before 
DaTSCAN SPECT imaging along with the level of confidence thereof, as well as any available MRI, 
CT, or cerebral perfusion SPECT findings (if performed) were provided to the CP. Post-mortem data 
that  became  available  during  the  study  were  also  provided.  The  CP  was  not  provided  with  the 
subject’s DaTSCAN SPECT image results or with the on-site investigator’s post-imaging diagnosis or 
management decisions. 
subject  management  decision 
The  56  subjects  with  “possible  DLB”  were  not  included  in  the  analysis  of  the  primary  efficacy 
endpoint or in the analysis of secondary endpoints 1 and 3. Post-hoc analyses including these patients 
were  requested  by  CHMP.  The  11  subjects  with  a  diagnosis  of  “other”  were  verified  as  having 
dementia  (i.e.,  the  criteria  were  met  according  to  on-site  investigator’s  entries  into  the  CRF).  In  all 
cases the diagnosis was set to “non-DLB” for the statistical analysis. Twenty eight subjects could not 
be included in the efficacy population because a diagnosis of either probable DLB, possible DLB, or 
non-DLB could not be established by the CP based on the clinical data available or due to violation of 
study entry criteria. Without a definite CP diagnosis as the standard of truth the subjects could not be 
included in the statistical analysis of all planned endpoints. 
In addition, the CP was asked to state whether concomitant cerebral disease was present. According to 
the  CP  this  was  the  case  in  19  (6.6%)  of  the  288  subjects  included  in  the  efficacy  population.  The 
majority  of  these  subjects  (N  =  11,  57.9%)  was  diagnosed  by  the  CP  as  having  “possible  VaD”  in 
addition to their main diagnosis. Five subjects (26.3%) had “possible AD”. 
-  Results of the DaTSCAN independent blinded image evaluation (BIE) 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following figure shows the disposition of the efficacy population 
A total of 5 patients were classified as having either “unevaluable” or “other” images and no clinical 
diagnosis. Including these patients in a sensitivity analysis is unlikely to alter the conclusions from this 
study. 
Analysis of the co-primary efficacy endpoint 
A  total  of  232  subjects  with  a  diagnosis  of  either  “probable”  or  “non-DLB”  were  included  in  the 
analysis. Subjects with a diagnosis of “possible” DLB were excluded.  
12 
 
 
 
 
 
The sensitivity ranged between 75.0% and 80.2%. The pre-defined threshold value for sensitivity was 
65%.  The  LCL  was  below  (by  0.9%)  the  threshold  value  for  reader  B  (64.1).  The  specificity  was 
between 88.6% and 91.4%. The pre-defined threshold value for specificity was 73%.  
According to the study protocol, the projected achievable sensitivity and specificity values were 80% 
and 85%, respectively. For sensitivity, the expected rate was reached by reader C and was lower for 
the other 2 readers (by 2.2% and 5%). For specificity, the expected rate was exceeded by all 3 readers 
(by 3.6% to 6.4%). 
In addition, an intention-to-diagnose (ITD) analysis was performed, which included subjects with non-
evaluable  images  not  related  to  DaTSCAN.  Since  all  additional  subjects  had  to  be  treated  as 
mismatches to the CP diagnosis, this analysis resulted in a decrease of sensitivity (between 63.8% and 
69.1%) and specificity (between 84.9% and 87.0%), although the results remain acceptable.  
Thus, the study results show that DaTSCAN can  differentiate DLB from AD (Alzheimer’s disease). 
Given that patients with PDD were excluded and only 9 patients with VaD (Vascular Dementia) were 
included,  it  is  not  possible  to  extend  the  results  to  “other  forms  of  dementia”  as  claimed  by  the 
Applicant. This is reflected in the indication proposed by CHMP. 
Analysis of secondary efficacy endpoints 
- 
endpoint 1  
The results are acceptable and there is a good reliability between the 3 readers. 
endpoint  2- A  total  of  69  subjects  with  probable  DLB,  48  subjects  with  possible  DLB,  and  129 
- 
subjects with non-DLB were evaluable for the semi-quantitative assessment. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A markedly greater loss in the density of the presynaptic dopamine transporter protein (DaT), which is 
said  to  be  diagnostic  for  DLB,  should  be  reflected  by  a  corresponding  decrease  in  DaTSCAN  radio 
uptake. For each of the 3 regions and in each hemisphere there was a reduction in uptake ratio in the 
probable DLB compared to the non-DLB population. Subjects classified as “possible” DLB by the CP 
showed intermediate reductions in uptake and a bimodal distribution. This bimodal distribution could 
be  due  to  the  fact  that  some  “possible”  DLB  may  be  classified  as  “probable”  DLB  and  the  other 
“possible” DLB as non-DLB (i.e. AD). 
endpoint 3 - The ability of DaTSCAN to increase the investigator’s diagnostic performance was 
- 
assessed by comparing the investigator’s baseline diagnosis to the post-DaTSCAN diagnosis. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
endpoint 4-  
Further  to  a  Request  from  CHMP  for  additional  sensitivity  analyses  for  sensitivity,  specificity,  PPV 
and NPV, the MAH performed 2 additional analyses where the 56 patients diagnosed with “possible 
DLB”  were  all  assumed  to  have  a  clinical  diagnosis  of  DLB  and  an  analysis  in  which  they  were 
assumed  to  be  diagnosed  as  non-DLB.  When  the  “possible  DLB”  patients  were  included  as  DLB 
patients, the sensitivity ranged from 60.6-63.4% and specificity from 88.6-91.4%. When the “possible 
DLB”  patients  were  included  as  non-DLB  patients,  the  sensitivity  ranged  from  75-80.2%  and 
specificity  from  81.3-83.9%.  Patients  with  undeterminable  clinical  diagnosis  or  unevaluable/other 
images  were  then  included  by  assuming  that  they  were  ‘false’  diagnoses.  For  this  analysis  the 
sensitivity ranged from 46.5% - 49.7% and specificity from 81.6% - 84.1% when patients diagnosed 
with  “possible  DLB”  were  assumed  to  have  DLB.  The  sensitivity  ranged  from  52.2%  -  57.5%  and 
specificity  from  74.6%  -  77.1%  when  patients  diagnosed  with  possible  DLB  were  assumed  to  have 
non-DLB. 
Although these sensitivity analyses show that the results are not particularly robust to missing data, the 
MAH included two less conservative sensitivity analyses in which “possible DLB” patients were not 
included. In one of these analyses all subjects with images unevaluable were considered to be ‘false’ 
results (ITD) and in the other analysis the on-site diagnosis was considered to be the standard of truth 
in subjects whose Consensus Panel diagnosis was missing. For the ITD analysis the sensitivity ranged 
from 63.8% to 69.1% and specificity from 84.9% - 87%; and for the on-site diagnosis the sensitivity 
ranged from 74.1% to 79.1% and specificity from 89.5% to 92.1%. 
Given these sensitivity analyses it may be considered that the best use of DaTSCAN would be in those 
patients  with  a  “probable”  diagnosis  of  DLB.  The  results  of  the  sensitivity  analyses  that  included 
“possible DLB” patients have been included in section 5.1 of the SPC 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional efficacy analyses  
Inter-reader and intra-reader agreements 
On-site clinical diagnosis 
The  on-site  clinical  diagnosis  was  established  by  the  investigator  before  and  after  the  DaTSCAN 
imaging.  This  diagnosis  was  based  on  all  available  cognitive,  neuropsychiatric,  neurological,  and 
clinical  data.  After  the  baseline  testing  was  completed,  the  investigator  was  asked  to  establish  the 
diagnosis  as  to  probable  DLB,  possible  DLB,  or  other  forms  of  dementia  (e.g.,  AD,  VaD)  using 
internationally  accepted  diagnostic  criteria  (including  the  ICC).  The  on-site  investigators  were  then 
asked  for  a  final  clinical  diagnosis  to  be  made  on  the  basis  of  all  available  subject  information  – 
including DaTSCAN image findings. 
The  on-site  clinical  diagnosis  at  baseline  was  in  agreement  with  the  CP  diagnosis  in  89.8%  of  the 
cases  for  “probable”  DLB,  44.6%  of  the  cases  for  “possible”  DLB  and  92.4%  of  the  cases  for  non-
DLB. 
16 
 
 
 
  
 
Comparison of Results in Subpopulations in PDT301 
Analyses for  sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy were performed for the following subgroups: age, 
presence  of  parkinsonism  (as  justified  by  UPDRS),  severe  dementia/cognitive  impairment,  (as 
justified by MMSE), study centre, and dose of radioactivity administered.  
The results show a lower sensitivity (approximately 60% compared to the CP 85%) for the age groups 
<65 years and >80 years, but the number of patients in each subgroup (7 subjects < 65 years and 14 
subjects  >  80)  are  too  small  to  draw  any  meaningful  conclusion.  there  was  no  significant 
difference in sensitivity or specificity between injected activities related to doses > or < 185 MBq for 
each  of  3  Readers,  although  sensitivity  and  specificity  values  were  slightly  higher  when  the 
administered activity is >185 MBq,  
3.3.2  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
The  safety  review  submitted  by  the  MAH  includes  3  studies  with  529  patients:  2  proof-of-concept 
studies  (Middlesex  Study  &  Newcastle  study)  and  1  phase  III  study  (PDT301  study).  All  patients 
included in these studies received a single intravenous injection of DaTSCAN at the following doses: 
Study 
Proof of concept studies 
Pivotal Phase III trial (PDT 301) 
Overall dose range 
N° of subjects 
244 
326 
570 
Dose range 
150 to 185 MBq 
121 to 287 MBq 
121 to 287 MBq 
Death and Discontinuation due to adverse events (AEs) 
One subject was withdrawn in study PDT301 after receiving DaTSCAN because of the occurrence of 
a SAE (fractured neck of femur), which resulted in the subject’s death. This AE was considered as not 
related to DaTSCAN by the investigator.  
Adverse events including serious adverse events  
A total of 44 subjects experienced at least one AEs and 2 patients experienced a serious AE:  
1 subject in the Middlesex study experienced incontinence and 1 subject in the Newcastle study 
- 
experienced neck pain. Both AEs were considered as unrelated to DaTSCAN. 
- 
42 subjects among the 326 subjects included in the study PDT301 experienced a total of 51 AE. 
Two  subjects  experienced  a  SAE  (pyrexia  and  the  above  death  secondary  to  femoral  neck  fracture) 
and both were considered related to the subject’s medical condition and unrelated to DaTSCAN . . The 
AEs reported in more than 1 patient were: injection site haemorrhage (n=12), injection site erythema 
(n=9), nausea (n=5) and back pain (n=2). Ten out of the 51 AE were considered as related: 3 cases of 
nausea, 2 cases of injection site haemorrhage, 2 cases of injection site erythema, 1 case of dry mouth, 
1 case of vomiting and 1 case of headache. The other AE were considered as unrelated to DaTSCAN 
but related to procedural complication or to other cause. 
The  observed  AE  were  of  transient  nature,  considered  as  expected  for  this  disease  and  the  age  of 
patients. 
Others 
Assessment  of  laboratory  parameters  (haematology,  serum  biochemistry,  urinalyses),  vital  signs  and 
ECGs revealed no trends or signals indicative of a safety signal. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Post-marketing safety data 
A  total  of  5  non-serious  cases  were  reported  during  the  period  27  July  2000  –  31  January  2004  (4 
injection site pain and 1 case including dysgueusia immediately, headache, nausea and anxiety 3 hours 
after  DaTSCAN  injection).  Events  resolved.  In  the  study  PDT  304,  a  total  of  202  patients  were 
enrolled and no serious AE were reported. 
III.  DISCUSSION 
The  documentation  submitted  by  the  Applicant  contains  efficacy  data  obtained  from  2  investigator-
sponsored studies and 1 pivotal phase 3 study. The two investigator studies (the Middlesex study and 
the  Newcastle  study)  are  limited  because  of  the  non-independent  analysis  of  results,  the  absence  of 
specified inclusion and exclusion criteria and test hypothesis, and the unblinded image analysis of one 
of  the  experts.  These  two  studies,  which  include  autopsy  findings,  can  be  considered  as  proof-of-
concept for DaTSCAN imaging, as claimed by the MAH. 
The “standard of truth” in all 3 studies was the clinical diagnosis of DLB. The main pivotal study was 
designed  to  assess  the  diagnostic  accuracy  of  DaTSCAN  images  versus  clinical  diagnosis.  Both  the 
clinical  diagnoses  of  the  “standard  of  truth”  and  the  DaTSCAN  image  reading  were  carried  out 
independently  of  each  other,  thus  reducing  the  chance  of  artificially  increasing  the  sensitivity  and 
specificity of the results. The results for the primary endpoints (sensitivity and specificity) and main 
secondary  endpoints  (positive  predictive  value,  negative  predictive  and  accuracy)  are  considered 
acceptable and are included in section 5.1 of the SPC. 
One of the issues discussed by CHMP was whether  clinical diagnosis is of sufficient standard to be 
considered a “very good approximation to the true disease state” (as suggested in the CHMP Points to 
Consider on diagnostic agents CPMP/EWP/1119/98), especially given the findings of the Middlesex 
study,  where  the  specificity  for  clinical  diagnoses  was  only  30%  when  compared  with  autopsy  data 
(considered the “gold standard”). Indeed, it was suggested during the evaluation that, in absence of the 
autopsy  data,  the  best  reference  might  have  been  clinical  follow-up  of  patients  (e.g.  12  months  or 
longer) with an uncertain diagnosis in the beginning. However, the MAH argued that the Consensus 
Panel  approach  had  been  validated  and  actually  agreed  with  some  national  Regulatory  Agencies. 
Furthermore,  the  MAH  claim  that  using  12-month  follow  up  data  to  confirm  the  initial  diagnosis 
would  not  add  significant  value  as  it  becomes  more  difficult  to  distinguish  subtypes  as  dementia 
progresses, a view supported by published literature (Ballard et al). Moreover, the collection of post-
mortem  data  would  not  be  practical  due  to  the  low  incidence  of  mortality  in  this  population.  The 
CHMP accept these arguments but nonetheless wish to receive the data arising from the re-evaluation 
of the primary and secondary endpoints at 12 months and any post-mortem information that becomes 
available from study PDT301, as a post-approval commitment.  
Regarding the limited accuracy of clinical diagnosis observed in the Middlesex study, the Applicant 
has  explained  that  since  the  study  recruitment  period  predated  the  ICC,  it  relied  solely  upon  the 
clinical diagnosis of a single investigator and did not adopt the Consensus Panel approach used both in 
the Newcastle studies and in the pivotal study PDT301. This 3-way consensus method has previously 
been shown to have high validity against neuropathological diagnosis. In light of the CP approach, the 
reliance on a single clinician to establish diagnosis was a methodological weakness in the Middlesex 
study, which resulted in suboptimal diagnostic accuracy. Indeed this weakness in the Middlesex study 
illustrates the need for a consensus panel approach if the clinical diagnosis is to be used as a standard 
of truth, and illustrates the need for a biomarker such as DaTSCAN to improve diagnostic precision, 
given  that  diagnosis  established  by  a  CP  of  international  experts  in  the  field  of  dementia  does  not 
reflect  the  real  life  clinical  setting.  The  real  importance  of  the  Middlesex  study  was  in  providing 
longitudinal post-mortem data demonstrating a high correlation between abnormal DaTSCAN image 
findings and a neuropathological diagnosis of LBD. The ongoing analysis of these data (17 cases to 
date)  has  demonstrated  the  sensitivity  of  DaTSCAN  SPECT  imaging  to  be  100%  with  semi-
quantitative  analysis  and  86%  with  the  visual  assessment  and  the  specificity  to  be  90%  and  80%, 
respectively. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Another point extensively debated by the Committee was whether the Applicant had chosen the most 
appropriate  subpopulation  of  DLB  patients  for  the  main  efficacy  analyses,  given  that  the  diagnostic 
uncertainty  in  “probable”  DLB  patients  is  low,  whereas  subjects  with  “possible  DLB”,  whose 
diagnostic  uncertainty  is  higher  and  would,  a  priori,  derive  a  greater  benefit  from  the  use  of 
DaTSCAN, were excluded from the analyses. Post-hoc sensitivity analyses including “possible” DLB 
patients submitted by the Applicant at the request of CHMP show a decrease in the values for the main 
efficacy endpoints and have been reflected in section 5.1 of the SPC. While the MAH appreciates that 
the  greatest  utility  of  DaTSCAN  imaging  would  be  in  those  patients  with  clinical  uncertainty,  they 
claim  that  the  diagnosis  of  DLB  based  solely  on  clinical  criteria  remains  difficult  and  is  to  some 
degree  uncertain,  even  in  patients  with  probable  DLB,  as  reflected  in  recent  publications.  Study 
PDT301  was  designed  to  demonstrate  the  efficacy  of  DaTSCAN  within  the  confines  of  uncertainty 
defined by a clinical diagnosis of “probable DLB” as diagnosed by the CP. Here, the standard of truth 
had to be validated and as accurate as possible. The inclusion of patients meeting clinical criteria for 
“possible” DLB enabled the evaluation of DaTSCAN in a population in whom the degree of certainty 
of  the  clinical  diagnosis  based  on  validated  clinical  criteria  (i.e.,  the  ICC)  is  low  (accuracy  of 
approximately 50% or less). The Applicant also states that the inclusion of “possible” DLB patients 
into  the  primary  endpoint analysis  would  thus  have  had  a  misleading  effect  on  the  primary  efficacy 
parameters and as such these subjects were excluded from the efficacy analyses.. 
While  the  CHMP  acknowledges  the  arguments  put  forward  by  the  Applicant,  in  view  of  these 
sensitivity  analyses  it  may  be  considered  that  the  best  use  of  DaTSCAN  would  be  in  those  patients 
with  a  “probable”  diagnosis  of  DLB,  which  also  more  adequately  reflects  the  trial  results.  This  has 
been reflected in the approved indication and the results of the sensitivity analyses including “possible 
DLB” patients have been included in section 5.1 of the SPC. 
The third main point discussed by CHMP refers to the clinical utility of DaTSCAN as a diagnostic test 
for LBD given that the clinical consequences of accurate and earlier diagnosis would appear limited in 
terms  of  patient  prognosis  and  disease  management.  Indeed,  during  the  evaluation  it  was  put  to  the 
Applicant whether the DaTSCAN does not merely confirm what is already clinically known, namely 
that patients diagnosed as DLB already have parkinsonism as this is a core feature of the diagnosis, 
and  hence  a  decreased  uptake  of  dopamine  is  expected.  The  Applicant  argues  that  the  presence  of 
parkinsonism  is  not  only  related  to  DLB.  Up  to  25%  of  AD  patients  can  also  develop  levodopa-
resistant parkinsonism not related to the dopaminergic neurons. At autopsy, such patients demonstrate 
an  accumulation  of  neuro-tangles  in  the  basal  ganglia  rather  than  the  dopaminergic  degeneration 
characteristic  of  synucleopathies  such  as  DLB  [Ballard  et  al.  2004,  Ceravolo  et  al.  2004].  Thus, 
parkinsonism  can  be  absent  in  a  DLB  patient  and  can  also  be  present  in  a  subject  with  a 
neuropathological  diagnosis  of  AD,  making  DAT  scanning  particularly  useful  in  distinguishing 
between the two disorders, as explained by McKeith et al. Hence DaTSCAN can be of particular value 
in  detecting  the  presence  or  absence  of  nigrostriatal  involvement  in  these  populations  and  thus 
dictating future patient management, which can differ as detailed in the introduction to this report. 
To  conclude,  the  study  results  show  that  DaTSCAN  can  differentiate  DLB  from  AD  (Alzheimer’s 
disease).  Given  that  patients  with  PDD  were  excluded  and  only  9  patients  with  VaD  (Vascular 
Dementia)  were  included,  it  is  not  possible  to  extend  the  results  to  “other  forms  of  dementia”  as 
claimed  by  the  Applicant.  In  addition,  in  view  of  the  sensitivity  analyses  including  patients  with 
“possible DLB”, it may be considered that the best use of DaTSCAN would be in those patients with a 
“probable”  diagnosis  of  DLB,  which  also  more  adequately  reflects  the  trial  results.  Thus,  a  revised, 
more  restricted  indication  reflecting  the  main  study  population  and  results  has  been  approved  by 
CHMP. 
The  CHMP  considers  that  DaTSCAN  is  a  useful  diagnostic  agent  that  will  help  to  improve  the 
accuracy of the diagnosis of DLB, which appears to vary substantially from study to study, in the real 
life clinical setting and there is little apparent risk associated with its use. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IV. 
 CONCLUSION 
On  28  June  2006  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments to be introduced in the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet  
The Follow-Up Measure below has been agreed: 
Area1
Clinical 
Description 
Protocol -PDT301 
Due date2
Q1 2007 
Study Title-  An Open-label, Phase 3, Clinical Study to Assess 
the Striatal Uptake of an Intravenous Solution Containing the 
Dopamine Transporter Radio-ligand, DaTSCAN, in Subjects with 
Dementia with Lewy Bodies. 
Brief Description –To determine the diagnostic efficacy (i.e. 
sensitivity and specificity) of the visual assessment of DaTSCAN 
single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) images 
in differentiating between probable dementia with Lewy Bodies 
(DLB) and non-DLB subjects as determined by the clinical 
diagnosis of an independent consensus panel used as the standard 
of truth, and to examine the safety profile of a single intravenous 
injection of DaTSCAN. 
Data to be submitted – Data arising from re-evaluation of the 
primary and secondary endpoints at 12 months including any 
post-mortem data that is available. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
