SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  and  scientific  discussion  on  procedures, 
which  have  been  finalised  before  1  February  2004.  For  scientific  information  on  procedures 
after this date please refer to module 8B.  
 Introduction 
I 
DaTSCAN  is  a  diagnostic  medicinal  product  containing  the  active  substance  ioflupane  (  123I)  INN, 
(otherwise  referred to as  123I-FP-CIT  or   123I-β-CIT-FP) which is a radioiodinated cocaine  analogue. 
This  cocaine  analogue  is  a  ligand  with  high  affinity  to  dopamine  transporter  (DaT)  located  on  the 
presynaptic nerve endings (axon terminals) in the striatum. The axon terminals are projections of the 
dopamine neurones in the substantia nigra. Therefore, binding of DaTSCAN in the striatum is claimed 
to  reflect  the  number  of  dopaminergic  neurones  in  the  substantia  nigra.  It  has  been  developed  as  a 
dopamine transporter imaging agent for single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). The 
technique is claimed to be sensitive enough to differentiate changes in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic 
system in patients with Parkinsonism and healthy controls. 
The  indication  is  as  follows:  DaTSCAN  is  indicated  for  detecting  loss  of  functional  dopaminergic 
neuron terminals in the striatum of patients with clinically uncertain Parkinsonian Syndromes, in order 
to help differentiate Essential Tremor from Parkinsonian Syndromes related to idiopathic Parkinson’s 
Disease,  Multiple  System  Atrophy  and  Progressive  Supranuclear  Palsy.  DaTSCAN  is  unable  to 
discriminate  between  Parkinson's  Disease,  Multiple  System  Atrophy  and  Progressive  Supranuclear 
Palsy.  
Parkinson's disease is characterised by akinesia, rigidity and abnormal involuntary movements.  
True Parkinsonian syndrome includes conditions like multiple system atrophy (MSA) and progressive 
supranuclear  palsy  (PSP),  in  addition  to  Parkinson's  disease.  This  syndrome  is  characterised  by  the 
loss  of  dopaminergic  cells  and  the  resultant  decrease  in  striatal  dopamine.  The  prevalence  in  the 
community of Parkinson's disease, MSA and PSP are approximately 82%, 10% and 8% respectively. 
Essential tremor (ET) is often confused clinically with Parkinson's disease and related syndromes but 
is not associated with nigrostriatal degeneration. 
DaTSCAN is presented as a sterile 5% (v/v) ethanolic solution for intravenous injection and should be 
used without dilution. The recommended dose for adults and the elderly is 111-185 MBq. DaTSCAN 
is not recommended for use in children or adolescents, as data are not available for these age groups. 
Patients  must  undergo  appropriate  thyroid  blocking  treatment  prior  to  injection  to  minimise  thyroid 
uptake  of  radioactive  iodine.  SPECT  imaging  should  take  place  between  three  to  six  hours  post 
injection. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
DaTSCAN is presented as a sterile solution of Ioflupane (123I) for intravenous injection, 2.5 ml and 5 
ml in a  10 ml glass vial. The radioactivity is calibrated during manufacture to have a certain activity 
at a future reference time, in this case 74 MBq/ml. The product contains ethanol (5% v/v) as a 
solubiliser, acetic acid and sodium acetate as a buffer system and Water for Injections as a diluent. The 
non-radioactive analogue Ioflupane-(127I) is also present.  
Two presentations have been developed i.e. 2.5ml and 5ml vials, providing 185 MBq per vial and 370 
MBq per vial respectively, at the reference time. 
1/17 
                   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active substance 
Ioflupane (123I) is a cocaine analogue with the chemical name N-ω- fluoropropyl-2β- carbomethoxy-
3β-(4-iodophenyl) nortropane, or (123I)-FP-CIT. It is not isolated during manufacture of the product. 
It is synthesised from a key starting material Sn FP-CT via oxidative iododestannylation with sodium 
(123I)-iodide.  Specifications for sodium  (123I)-iodide  are  satisfactory  (e.g.  radionuclide  purity not less 
than 99.9% on calibration and information has been provided on the generation of this raw material by 
irradiation of a 124Xe target. 
The  dossier  contains  detailed  reports  on  the  preparation  and  characteristics  of  Sn  FP-CT  which 
determines  the  stereochemistry  of  the  active  substance.  150  µg  aliqots  of  Sn  FP-CT  are  set  aside  in 
vials for each manufacturing batch. (In mass terms the batch sizes of the active substance which carry 
through into the product are very small, in the submicrogram range). 
Proof  of  structure  has  been  shown  using  the  ‘cold’  analogue  (127I)-ioflupane  by  means  of  the  usual 
spectroscopic  techniques  and  correspondence  between  these  data  and  the  active  substance  has  been 
confirmed.  
The impurities arising from the synthesis have been well described and characterised, many of them 
present at the submicrogram level. Impurities have been qualified with reference to toxicology studies. 
Stability of the active substance has not been shown by means of conventional studies, since it is not 
isolated. It has been shown that aliquots of the key starting material Sn FP-CT are stable in glass vials 
at -20°C to -30°C, and a storage life of 24 months can be envisaged for this substance. 
Other ingredients 
The excipients ethanol, acetic acid, sodium acetate and water for injections are characterised according 
to PhEur specifications. 
Product development and finished product 
The formulation effectively allows the radiochemical purity of the injectable solution to be maintained 
throughout its storage life, and is compatible with the intravenous injection route. 
During the pharmaceutical development, the following issues were especially addressed: 
- 
The choice of active ingredient. 
This is justified as an agent for the visualisation of dopaminergic transporters. The choice was 
based  on  activity  levels  compatible  with  both  the  quality  control  appropriate  to  the 
manufacturing  process,  and  occupation  of  transporter  sites  without  producing  any  human 
pharmacological effect (1%). The choice of the radionuclide (123I) was because of its very short 
half life. 
- 
The problem of the ethanol content. 
Complete  removal  by  evaporation  would  significantly  reduce  the  radiochemical  purity.  A 
complete  study  was  carried  out  to  justify  the  5%  ethanol  remaining.  A  small  percentage  of 
ethanol  is  useful  for  the  solubility  of  the  ioflupane,  which  is  lipophilic  and  only  moderately 
soluble in water. 
The  pH was also thoroughly studied as a factor influencing the radiochemical  purity. An acid 
pH of 4.7 was found most favourable. 
The  choice  of  buffer  solution  concentration,  and  the  choice  of  the  vials  and  closures,  are 
justified. European Pharmacopoeia type I glass vials, and Teflon-coated closures were chosen, 
these latter attenuating unwanted binding of radioactivity.  
Syringes were also studied, justifying the use of plastic syringes for administration. 
- 
- 
- 
Concerning the sterilisation process, measurements of radiochemical purity were made on vials of the 
product  autoclaved  at  121°C  for  at  least  15  min.  The  results  of  these  measurements  proved 
unacceptable,  a  fall  in  radiochemical  purity  of  20%  being  recorded.  Therefore,  the  product  is 
manufactured by aseptic assembly, i.e. sterile filtration through a 0.2 µ filter (with relevant control of 
2/17 
                   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
bioburden and bubble point testing), and subsequent filling of the product into pre-sterilised containers 
under EU grade A environment in a grade B room. 
The product test methods and specification prior to release are acceptable for a product of this type, 
with  particular  attention  paid  to  radionuclidic  purity,  radiochemical  identity,  radiochemical  purity, 
total activity, specific activity and sterility. 
Stability of the product 
Whilst  the  chemical  stability  of  the  active  substance  is  not  a  major  issue,  the  half-life  of  123I 
determines the short shelf-life of the product. Stability studies have been carried out at 25°C for 10 h 
after the stated expiry time. In addition a transport study was conducted at temperatures up to 40°C. In 
summary,  all  batches  were  within  specifications,  and  the  results  endorse  the  storage  conditions  as 
defined in the SPC. Whilst the concentration of active substance is the same in both presentations, the 
5 ml vial has a higher amount of radioactivity present which takes longer to decay to ‘usable’ levels.  
Therefore the 5 ml vial has a longer  usable shelflife than the 2.5 ml vial.  
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacodynamics related to the proposed indication 
Six in vitro studies and nine in vivo bibliographic studies are presented, carried out in the rat, mouse, 
monkey and baboon. 
There  are  in  addition  two  in  vivo  studies  conducted  on  one  analogue,  and  the  other  on  several 
analogues of the active ingredient, respectively in the baboon and the rat. 
The  in  vitro  studies  all  demonstrated  the  specific  binding  of  the  active  ingredient  on  the  DaTs,  in 
particular in the striatum. 
Different substituted phenyltropanes (cocaine skeleton) had a high affinity for dopamine transporters 
(DaT), and high striatum/cerebellum binding ratios were found on sections of different brain tissues. 
Pharmacological inhibition studies confirmed binding on DaTs in the striatum. 
Two  studies  on  rat  striatum  and  frontoparietal  cortex  homogenates  placed  in  contact  with  these 
derivatives  of  β-carbomethoxy-3β-(4-iodophenyl)-tropane  (β-CIT)  confirmed  this  specificity  and 
suggested that if labelled with 11C, 18F or 123I, they could serve as PET or SPECT imaging agents. The 
fluoropropyl derivative (i.e. ioflupane) had the greatest selectivity and the highest affinity coefficient. 
Autoradiographic comparison of the binding of three N-substituted  125I-labelled ligands to the DaTs, 
on  human  brain  sections,  post  mortem,  confirmed  the  affinity  for  DaT-rich  areas.  The  highest 
specificity was found for the fluoropropyl derivative; the active ingredient of the specialty, compared 
with  the  fluoroethyl  derivative  and  the  methyl  derivative,  which  were  the  least  specific.  This  was 
confirmed by the use of inhibitors of the different amines. 
Besides these in vitro studies, in vivo studies are presented in the form of copies of different papers 
published in journals of ranging degrees of specialization.  
After administration of different N-substituted analogs of β-CIT, and in particular the fluoroethyl and 
fluoropropyl  derivatives,  locomotor  activity  was  significantly  increased  in  the  rat  at  doses  of  0.3  to  
3 mg/kg. After injection in the baboon and SPECT imaging, the striatum displayed the most binding, 
at all observation times between 1 h and 5 h after injection of the iodine-123 labelled compound. 
In the cynomolgus monkey, a study by SPECT imaging with the 11C-labelled compound showed that it 
accumulated in the striatum with a striatum/cerebellum binding ratio of about 8 at 60 min, steady state 
in the striatum being achieved in 70 to 90 min. The compound remained 80% intact in the plasma at 
20-25  min.  The  low  metabolism  minimized  the  risk  of  metabolites  crossing  the  blood-brain  barrier. 
After  injection  of  a  high  dose  of  β-CIT,  the  binding  was  found  to  be  reversible.  The  results  were 
confirmed by studies on human brain sections post mortem.  
3/17 
                   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Experiments in the rat confirmed the binding specificity to the striatum versus other areas of the brain. 
The striatum/cerebellum ratio was close to 6 at 1 h and remained stable from 2 to 6 h after injection. 
In  the  rhesus  monkey  in  which  the  dopaminergic  neurones  are  chemically  impaired,  the  specific 
binding to the striatum was markedly reduced. 
In addition, experiments in the baboon show that ioflupane had a particular sensitivity for DaTs; that 
for the 5HT transporters being more than three times lower. 
General pharmacodynamics / safety pharmacology 
Two  studies,  conducted  in  accordance  with  GLP,  were  performed  one  in  the  rat  to  study  the 
behavioural effects, and the other in the dog to investigate cardiovascular effects 
In  the  rat,  the  compound  administered  at  doses  of  10,  1,000  and  10,000  times  the  intended  human 
clinical  dose  was  labelled  with  non-radioactive  iodine  to  be  as  similar  as  possible  to  the  active 
ingredient. The modified Irwin test was used to assess the activity and the behaviour of the rats. After 
7  days  observation  respiration  was  observed  to  be  impaired  (accelerated  breathing  or  respiratory 
difficulties) at all three doses, and impaired muscle tone was found at only the highest dose. 
In  the  dog,  doses  of  10,  100  and  1,000  times  the  intended  human  clinical  dose  were  tested  after 
implantation  of  a  transmitter  for  telemetric  monitoring  of  cardiovascular  parameters,  which  were 
thereby measured regularly during the first hour and then every hour for 24 hours after administration. 
No cardiovascular effect was observed. Respiratory effects, such as were recorded in the rat, were not 
observed.  
A third general pharmacological report concerns possible drug interactions with the active ingredient 
in  the  rat.  The  drugs  investigated  were  administered  i.v.  in  a  single  dose,  and  subcutaneously  in 
repeated daily doses for two weeks, except for L-DOPA for which repeated injections were not tested. 
The  active  ingredient  itself  was  labelled  with  iodine-123  and  the  doses  of  psychotropic  drugs  were 
higher than those used in human therapy. 
Only fluvoxamine was observed to have a negative effect on the binding of the active ingredient in the 
striatum, and only in the areas rich in serotonin transporters. 
Dopamine agonists were not tested, because they act on postsynaptic receptors and not on transporters 
located presynaptically. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Trials  were  conducted  in  the  rat,  monkey  and  baboon  with  the  compound  labelled  in  different 
positions by one of the following radionuclides: 123I, 11C or 18F. 
The compound, although essentially and rapidly bound in the striatum, is also distributed in the liver, 
spleen,  kidney  and  lung.  A  striatum/cerebellum  ratio  of  6  was  found  1  h  post-injection.  The  time 
course of the binding ratios prompted the choice of 2 h as time limit for the study of binding inhibition 
or blocking effects. The active ingredient also binds on the serotonin transporter, but less strongly than 
on the dopamine transporters. 
The excretion route of ioflupane in the rat was sex-dependent. The females eliminated it mainly by the 
renal  route:  56.66%  in  72  h  against  24.22  in  feces.  For  males  these  percentages  were  respectively 
36.03% and 45.71%. 
In  the  baboon  (females  only),  it  was  found  that  the  thyroid,  even  when  not  blocked  by  prior 
administration of iodine, retained no radioactivity, implying no release of free iodine in the body from 
the active ingredient, which is 90% bound to serum proteins. 
The doses absorbed by the different organs were calculated by the MIRD method. The lower colon is 
the  main  target  organ,  followed  by  the  liver,  the  upper  colon,  the  bladder  wall,  the  thyroid,  the 
kidneys, etc. The doses delivered to these organs are about 0.2  mGy/MBq and the equivalent of the 
effective dose is 0.08 mSv/MBq. 
The biodistribution of the radioactivity after injection of ioflupane (123I) was also studied in the male 
rat. The organs that retained most radioactivity were the liver (up to 24 h post-injection), the lung (up 
to 3 h), and the striatum, which dislayed the highest labelling from the first hour post-injection. 
4/17 
                   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
The metabolism studies in the monkey and healthy human volunteers allowed a comparison between 
cocaine,  β-CIT  and  the  active  ingredient.  The  metabolites  were  different  according  to  the  site  of 
labelling with 18F, 11C or 123I. 
In  both  humans  and  monkeys,  the  main  metabolite  of  the  active  ingredient  is  FP-CIT  acid,  a  polar 
compound unable to cross the blood-brain barrier. It is eliminated as glycuronyl conjugates. The other 
metabolites  can  be  nor-β-CIT,  traces  of  which  have  been  detected,  and  free  iodine,  which  was  not 
detected.  Although  free  iodine  was  not  detected,  it  is  advisable  to  block  the  thyroid  by  preventive 
administration of iodide before injection of DaTSCAN, and this is reflected in the SPC.  
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
In  the  rat,  2  dose  levels  were  administered:  the  high  dose  was  chosen  because  it  was  the  LD50  for 
cocaine and the low dose represented 10,000 times the intended human dose. 
. at high dose : 17.5 mg/kg, i.v.: 
5/5 males and 3/5 females died within 24 h: clinical signs observed included lethargy, 
clonic  spasms,  ventro-lateral  recumbency,  hunched  posture, 
increased  activity, 
uncoordinated movements, laboured respiration, piloerection, shaking of the head. 
In the two surviving females the symptoms disappeared in 24 - 48 h. 
. at low dose : 0.06 mg/kg, i.v.: 
there was no mortality or signs of systemic toxicity, although intense movements of discomfort 
were observed during injection. Body weight gain was normal in all surviving animals. 
In the rabbit, only one dose level of 0.06 mg/kg in the marginal ear vein was used. 
During  the  treatment  intense  reactions  consisting  of  shaking  and  withdrawal  of  the  head  and  high 
tensions in the paws and body were observed in 3/5 animals. 
For  the  remaining  animals  the  test  solution  was  warmed  to  30°  C;  thereafter  less  severe  reactions 
occurred. It seemed that temperature and low pH were responsible for this behaviour reaction. In later 
studies the volume of injection was greatly reduced, from 2 to 0.5 ml/kg. 
Reactions at the injection site in some animals were attributed to the mechanical procedure or to the 
vehicle. In the absence of a control group no conclusion can be drawn. 
No animals died during the study and macroscopic post mortem examinations on day 15 did not reveal 
any abnormalities. 
Repeated dose toxicity 
In the rat, after a preliminary dose range finding study, 3 dose levels were selected and administered 
under a dosage volume of 2.5 ml to 10 animals/sex/group: 0-0.006-0.6 and 3.6 mg/kg. 
At the high dose (3.6 mg/kg) stereotype behaviour, hyperactivity, hypersensitivity to external stimuli, 
and piloerection were observed in both sexes. 
At the intermediate dose (0.6 mg/kg) similar signs but with less severe intensity were seen only in the 
female group. 
Body weight gain was decreased only in the high dose group. 
Biological  changes  were  noted  for  serum  protein  and  albumin  (3.6  mg/kg)  and  bilirubin  (0.6  and  
3.6 mg/kg), which were significantly reduced. 
At necropsy some organ weights were increased in both sexes (brain) and in females (kidney, ovaries, 
thymus) in the high dose group. 
Microscopic examination did not reveal any changes except at the injection site in all groups including 
controls: this tissue damage consisted of perivenous inflammation; fibrosis, haemorrhage, thrombosis, 
necrosis of veins and oedema. 
5/17 
                   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
In the rabbit, based on a preliminary dose ranging study, dose levels selected for the main study were: 
0.006 - 0.6 and 1.5 mg/kg were administered i.v. to 4 groups of 4 animals/sex for 14 days. 
In the high dose group 2 animals died, one male and one female. Clinical signs include stereotypic and 
aggressive behaviour, exaggerated response to external stimuli, exophthalmia with dilated pupils, fast 
and laboured respiration. 
In the other groups (0.6 and 0.006 mg/kg) similar but very moderate signs were observed.  
Vocalisation and violent reactions occurred in all groups including controls, during treatment. 
Weight gain and food consumption were lower in the high dose group than in controls. 
Increases in serum urea, CK and LDH values in all groups including controls were attributed to tissue 
damage at injection site. 
A  decrease  in  serum  bilirubin  was  observed  in  both  sexes,  statistically  significant  in  females  of 
intermediate and high groups. 
At necropsy no abnormality in organs were observed with the exception of injection site lesions in all 
groups  including  controls.  These  lesions  were  like  those  in  the  rat,  characterised  by  perivenous 
haemorrhage, oedema, inflammation, fibrosis, thrombus formation and endothelial necrosis. 
In  summary,  the  salient  findings  were  of  behavioural  type  and  attributed  to  the  pharmacological 
effects of this cocaine-like product. 
Reproductive Toxicity 
No studies have been conducted. 
The SPC contraindicates the use of DaTSCAN in pregnancy. 
In the CPMP’s opinion, since no gene mutations or chromosomal changes have been evidenced, and 
as well as no effects on reproductive organs in toxicity studies on 2 species after 14 daily intravenous 
administrations of up to 100,000 fold the clinical dose, the absence of a fertility study in rodents can 
be accepted, given that a very low single dose will be used (0.006 micro g/kg) in humans. 
Genotoxicity 
Mutagenicity 
As  in  toxicity  studies  the  genotoxic  potential  of  DaTSCAN  was  investigated  with  a  non-radioactive 
product. 
In  the  Ames  test  a  small  and  not  dose-dependent  increases  in  revertants  in  TA  100  and  TA  98  was 
observed in one independent experiment, which can be considered to be incidental. 
There was no sign of genotoxicity in the mouse micronucleus test.  
Overall there was no evidence of genotoxicity under the experimental conditions employed. 
Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted, which is acceptable for a product intended for single 
administration. This is mentioned in the SPC. 
Local tolerance 
A single dose study was conducted in the rabbit and the rat to assess the tolerance potential of FP-CIT 
by intravenous, intraarterial or perivenous route. 
All animals exhibited tachypnea after treatment and vocalised during injection. 
After 5 days observation injection site areas were examined macro and microscopically:  
erythema and oedema were seen at all injection sites in all groups, although the control ears were less 
injured than the treated ears. 
Microscopic  examination  revealed  periarterial  fibrosis,  oedema  and  haemorrhages  with  the  same 
severity in controls and treated samples. 
6/17 
                   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  tolerability  studies  with  the  vehicle  the  results  indicated  that  the  rabbit  was  more  sensitive  to 
injection that the rat. 
A blush discoloration and slight oedema was observed in all rabbits, whereas no local effect appeared 
in the rats. 
This poor tolerability in the rabbit may be partly attributed to the vehicle for probably 2 reasons: the 
low pH and the large injection volume. However, the product was well tolerated locally in rats. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No significant environmental risk is anticipated by the use of DaTSCAN in accordance with the SPC 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The clinical development program carried out by the company consists of two main efficacy studies 
(open) in support of the claimed indication: CY96.FP.II & DP 008-003. A total of 254 patients were 
evaluated in these studies. In addition, 4 published studies were presented as supportive evidence of 
diagnostic efficacy. 
The safety database consists of 454 patients exposed to DaTSCAN : (266 in the main studies above, 
88 in the supportive studies and 100 in ongoing studies ). 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
In patients with Parkinson's disease, a marked reduction in dopaminergic neurones in the striatum has 
been observed. The axon terminals are projections of the dopamine neurones in the substantia nigra. 
The  action  of  dopamine  at  the  synapse  is  terminated  by  rapid  reuptake  into  dopaminergic  nerve 
endings. This is achieved by the dopamine transporter (DaT) which is neurotransmitter-specific, high 
affinity,  sodium-dependent  transmembrane  transporter  protein.  This  can  be  blocked  by  psycho-
stimulant drugs (e.g. cocaine), neurotoxins (e.g.1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) 
and various specific pharmacological markers. 
Ioflupane (123I)’s affinity for the dopamine transporter has been shown in pre-clinical studies. 
High affinity for the dopamine transporter has been demonstrated by benzoyltropane cocaine. This is 
inactivated rapidly and metabolically by hydrolysis of the 3β-benzoyl ester. Cocaine analogues have 
been  developed  which  avoid  hydrolysis  of  the  ester  by  attaching  the  aromatic  ring  directly  to  the 
tropane system. 
In  a  published  study,  both  ioflupane  (123I)  and  (123I)β-CIT  showed  decreased  striatal  uptake  in 
Parkinson's disease patients compared to controls. 
Another  study  showed  the  order  of  specificity  to  be  β-CIT-FP  (ioflupane)  >  β-CIT-FE  >  β-CIT  by 
autoradiography  in  postmortem  human  brains.  In  another  study  in  postmortem  human  brains,  there 
was a high binding in the caudate and putamen and low binding in the cortex and other regions. 
Safety and tolerance of ioflupane (123I) has been demonstrated in phase II studies. 
Secondary pharmacology has not been investigated but in pivotal studies, no effects were observed on 
pulse and blood pressure. 
As the maximum degree of dopamine transporter occupancy in humans was <1%, no pharmacological 
effect was expected. 
The  evidence  for  primary  pharmacology  has  been  mainly  derived  from  pre-clinical  studies.  The 
rationale for development of the tracer has been provided.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Limited  kinetic  studies  were  performed.  In  view  of  the  I.V.  injection,  100%  availability  can  be 
assumed. The physical half life of 123I is 13.2 hours. 
7/17 
                   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biodistribution, safety and tolerability: In a phase I biodistribution and dosimetry study in 12 healthy 
volunteers,  whole  body  scans  were  performed  up  to  48  hours  following  injection  of  100  MBq 
ioflupane (123I).  
The  level  of  radioactivity  were  highest  in  the  lungs,  liver  and  brain.  The  images  showed  rapid  lung 
uptake and hepatobiliary excretion. The highest absorbed doses were in the urinary bladder wall and 
lungs. Brain uptake was approximately 7% of the % injected activity, with 30% of this concentrated in 
the striatum. The mean urinary excretion was 60% ± 9% and mean predicted faecal excretion was 14% 
± 1%. 
Radiation dose estimates confirmed an effective dose of 0.024 mSv/MBq. 
The tolerance was good and no adverse events were reported. 
Comparison of (123I)β-CIT and ioflupane (123I) for imaging of the dopamine transporter : 
In a pilot study, both tracers produced excellent images and effective dose equivalent of both tracers 
were similar. The faster striatal washout of FP-CIT resulted in 40% reduction in estimated radiation 
dose to the basal ganglia, compared to that for β-CIT. 
Human  biodistribution  and  dosimetry  of  123I-fluoroalkyl  analogues  of  (123I)β-CIT.:  In  a  study  in  six 
healthy volunteers, the peak percent injected dose uptake were:- 
Liver 
Lungs 
Brain 
Spleen 
Bladder 
FE-CIT 
28% ± 7% 
13% ± 5% 
8% ± 2% 
6% ± 2% 
5% ± 1% 
FP-CIT 
25% ± 6% 
19% ± 6% 
7% ± 2% 
8% ± 2% 
4% ± 1% 
Both showed similar pattern of distribution. Radiation dose estimates were lower for FP-CIT. 
Metabolism: Only one metabolite has been identified in human plasma, which was believed to be free 
carboxylic acid formed by enzymatic hydrolysis of the methyl ester group.  
Drug interactions: Drugs with high affinity for dopamine transporter may have an effect on the clinical 
efficacy  of  ioflupane  (123I).  Compounds  likely  to  interact  with  striatal  uptake  through  dopamine 
transporter should not be used (cocaine, amphetamine, mazindol, methylphenidate and benztropine).  
There  was  pre-clinical  evidence  that  drugs  like  levodopa,  selegiline,  haloperidol,  risperidone  and 
fluvoxamine were unlikely to affect the uptake of ioflupane (123I) by the dopamine transporter.  
As  dopamine  agonists  (bromocriptine,  pergolide  and  ropinirole)  target  the  post-synaptic  dopamine 
receptor, they were not expected to interfere with pre-synaptic dopamine transporter imaging.  
In  general,  kinetic  studies  were  limited  but  acceptable  for  the  proposed  indication,  i.e.  single 
administration.  Absorption  can  be  assumed  to  be  100%  and  excretion  profile  has  been  adequately 
described. There were no studies in special risk groups and none was considered essential, however, 
an appropriate statement has been included in the SPC under Section 4.4. Information relating to drug 
interaction is reflected in the SPC, Section 4.5. 
Dosimetry:  Effective Dose, calculated according to the ‘MIRD DOSE 3.1’ method, is 0.024 + 0.002 
mSv/MBq. The urinary bladder wall represents the critical organ (0.054 + 0.008 mGy/MBq) but lungs 
(0.043  +  0.002  mGy/MBq)  and  lower  large  intestine  wall  (0.042 mGy/MBq)  are  also  the  most 
concerned  by  radiation  absorption  doses.  The  self  dose  to  striatum  is  estimated  at  0.23  +  0.07 
mGy/MBq). These data do not give rise to concern. 
- 
- 
For a 70 kg individual, the effective dose (ED) resulting from injection of DaTSCAN, is 4.35 
mSv which is acceptable. As an indicative comparison, the ED of a cerebral perfusion SPECT is 
4.5 to 5 mSv, the ED of a bone scan is 5.6 mSv. 
The SPC includes relevant advice for accelerating intestinal clearance in case of overdosage.  
8/17 
                   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
Clinical efficacy: 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies 
Two main studies were submitted, both sponsored by the applicant: 
Study 
Methodology 
Number/ 
Population 
primary  efficacy 
parameter 
secondary 
parameter(s) 
efficacy 
CY96.
FP.II 
single 
Open, 
controlled, 
randomised, 
group, 
centre, 
non 
parallel 
10 
volunteers 
age = 53 )  
healthy 
  (mean 
**Time of uptake 
of ioflupane (123I) 
SPECT / methodology 
unspecified  
 ROIs 
methodology 
unspecified 
tracing 
clinically 
20 
diagnosed 
idiopathic 
patients  
(mean age = 57) 
PD 
Ratio  of  specific  to  non 
specific  uptake  up  to  6 
hours. 
i.e.  Ratio  = 
(striatum 
uptake  minus  occipital 
cortex***uptake) 
/ 
occipital cortex uptake ) 
DP 
008- 
003 
uncontrolled*, 
non 
Open, 
multicentre, 
randomized, 
parallel group 
160  PS  patients 
related 
PD, 
MSA,  PSP  (mean 
age =62.8) 
to 
SPECT / 
methodology 
unspecified 
comparison of PS versus 
ET patients 
29 Essential Tremor 
patients 
(mean age=64.1) 
healthy 
35 
volunteers*  
mean age =61.1) 
Unblinded  visual 
assessment 
of 
images  at  study 
centre 
(qualitative 
assessment ) 
-Blinded  read  ,  panel  of  5 
readers. 
(qualitative assessment) 
-Semi-quantitative 
assessment  of  regions  of 
interest  
(Ratio  of  specific  to  non 
specific uptake) 
* These volunteers were used in each centre to calibrate the SPECT and in semi quantitative analysis 
but not as controls. 
** Not actually defined as a primary efficacy parameter in the protocol. 
*** Occipital cortex is considered as a ‘non specific’ binding region. 
Study  CY96.FP.II:  In  this  Phase  II,  single  centre,  open  study,  uptake  kinetics  of  ioflupane  (123I)  in 
various  brain  regions  was  investigated.  A  comparison  was  made  between  patients  with  Parkinson's 
disease and healthy volunteers. A total of 30 subjects (20 patients and 10 healthy volunteers) received 
single injection of approximately 111MBq ioflupane (123I).  
Imaging between 3 - 6 hours showed ratio of specific to non-specific striatal uptake to be significantly 
different between Parkinson's disease group and healthy volunteers. Ipsilateral changes, i.e. clinically 
asymptomatic side, were seen in a subgroup analysis suggesting that the product has potential for early 
diagnosis of Parkinson's disease.  
Study DP008-003: This was a multicentre, open, non-controlled and non-randomised Phase III trial. 
The study compared the striatal uptake of ioflupane (123I) in patients diagnosed with true Parkinsonian 
syndrome  (Parkinson's  disease,  multiple  system  atrophy  and  progressive  supranuclear  palsy)  and 
definite essential tremor. The study period was six months. 
A total of 250 subjects were recruited (212 patients and 38 healthy volunteers) and 224 analysed (189 
patients and 35 healthy volunteers).  
9/17 
                   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Objectives/efficacy variables 
The primary efficacy criteria were visual assessment of ioflupane (123I) striatal uptake determined by 
institutional  read  (clinical  diagnosis  of  the  patient  by  the  study  site).  The  secondary  variable  was 
visual  assessment  of  striatal  uptake  determined  by  blinded  read  (consensus  diagnosis  of  a  panel 
composed of 5 readers, blinded to the clinical diagnosis). In addition, a semi-quantitative assessment 
of regional interest was also determined.  
In general, the objective was to compare the accuracy of diagnosis by DaTSCAN to the best possible 
clinical diagnosis, according to movement disorder specialists. 
Results 
In  this  study  a  high  degree  of  sensitivity  and  specificity  was  reported  with  reference  to  the  clinical 
diagnosis, both for institutional read and blinded read, as shown in the summary table below:- 
Considering  that  the  true  gold  standard  in  this  case  is  post-mortem  examination,  clinical  diagnosis 
according to movement disorder specialists was taken as the reference. 
‘Sensitivity’ 
per protocol analysis 
ITT analysis 
‘Specificity’ 
per protocol analysis 
ITT analysis 
Unblinded read (primary) 
% 
Lower  bound  of  the  95  % 
Confidence Limits (LCL) 
Blinded read(secondary) 
% 
Lower 
Confidence Limits 
bound 
of 
the 
95% 
111/115 = 96.5% 
LCL = 91.9% 
154/158 = 97.5 % 
LCL = 94.1 % 
109/115 = 94.8% 
LCL = 89.7% 
150/158 = 94.9 % 
LCL = 90.8% 
Unblinded read (primary) 
% 
Lower 
Confidence Limits (LCL) 
bound 
of 
Blinded read(secondary) 
% 
Lower  bound  of  the  Confidence 
Limits 
the 
16/16 = 100 % 
LCL = 80.6% 
27/27 = 100 % 
LCL = 87.8% 
15/16 = 93.8% 
LCL = 72.2% 
25/27 = 92.6 % 
LCL = 77.5% 
The  patients included in this trial were mostly established cases of true Parkinsonian syndrome, and 
these are probably not the whole patient population where the product is to be used. 
However,  the  striatal  uptake  of  ioflupane  (123I)  was  clearly  decreased  in  patients  with  Parkinson's 
disease  and  related syndromes, (some  patients with  multiple system atrophy (MSA)  and  progressive 
supranuclear  palsy  (PSP)  were  also  included).  Although  this  diagnostic  procedure  can  differentiate 
between  ET  (essential  tremor)  and  true  PS  (Parkinson’s  disease  and  related  syndromes),  there  is  no 
evidence  that  it  can  differentiate  between  PD,  MSA  or  PSP  and  this  is  reflected  in  the  SPC  section  
4.1, indication. 
10 ‘mismatch’ cases were observed (approx. 5% of the study population), i.e. the SPECT image did 
not  correlate  with  clinical  diagnosis.  This  led  to  a  re-diagnosis  in  5  cases  e.g.  from  PD  to  essential 
tremor,  non-parkinsonism,  vascular  disease,  neuroleptic-induced  parkinsonism  and  from  MSA 
(multiple  system  atrophy)  to  essential  tremor.  The  other  cases  are  under  ongoing  monitoring  and 
followup. This indicates that the symptomatology may not be as reliable a predictor of the underlying 
pathology as imaging by DaTSCAN. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No specific populations have been studied other than those reported in the main studies. 
10/17 
                   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supportive studies 
The  following  published  studies  were  submitted  as  supportive  of  diagnostic  efficacy.  All  used  the 
formulation intended for marketing and were published in peer-reviewed journals.  
Practical benefit of ioflupane (123I) SPECT in the demonstration of dopaminergic deficit in Parkinson’s 
Disease:  This  was  a  small  study  in  five  patients.  SPECT  images  were  acquired  at  3  hours  post-
injection  for  ioflupane  (123I)  and  24  hours  post-injection  for  (123I)  β-CIT.  Both  tracers  were  good 
markers for imaging of the DA transporter in PD patients, however ratios of specific to non-specific 
striatal ioflupane (123I) uptake were 2.5 fold lower than those observed following injection of (123I) β-
CIT.  The  mean  uptake  was  more  decreased  in  the  putamen  than  in  the  caudate  nucleus  with  both 
tracers. 
Striatal  dopamine  transporter  labelling  in  early  and  advanced  Parkinson’s  Disease:  This  study 
evaluated the use of ioflupane (123I) in early and late stage Parkinson’s disease. Eighteen patients with 
Parkinson’s disease (6 early and 12 late stage) and six healthy volunteers were recruited. 
There were significant differences in uptake, between control and early Parkinson’s group, control and 
late Parkinson’s group and between early and late Parkinson’s patients. 
This  study  gave  clear  indication  of  decreased  uptake  of  ioflupane  (123I)  in  patients  with  early 
Parkinson’s disease. 
ioflupane (123I) SPECT in healthy volunteers and early stage, drug naïve Parkinson’s disease: In this 
study,  the  ratio  of  specific  to  non-specific  striatal  binding  was  investigated  in  21  drug  naïve 
Parkinson’s disease patients and 14 healthy volunteers. 
All  striatal  ratios  were  lower  in  patients  with  Parkinson’s  disease,  compared  to  controls.  This 
difference was significant. The reduction was more marked in the putamen. 
Imaging  of  dopamine  transporters  with  ioflupane  (123I)  in  healthy  controls  and  patients  with 
Parkinson’s disease (test/retest variability).. 
In 10 patients with Parkinson’s disease and 6 healthy volunteers, reliability and reproducibility of the 
technique were investigated. 
No  significant  differences  were  noted  in  test/retest  studies.  The  results  in  PD  patients  are  shown 
below: 
11/17 
                   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Variability and reliability between test and retest in 10 patients with Parkinson’s Disease 
Age(y
r) 
76 
71 
68 
57 
68 
65 
71 
57 
63 
77 
Subject 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
Mean ± s.d. 
Reliability*
** 
ROI protocol 
Test* 
Retest* 
2.02 
1.43 
1.60 
1.77 
2.21 
1.88 
1.66 
1.79 
1.56 
1.94 
1.78 
0.23 
2.07 
1.35 
1.56 
1.90 
2.09 
1.95 
1.57 
1.62 
2.02 
1.75 
1.79 
0.25 
± 
1.00 
Variability*
* 
2.51 
5.45 
3.06 
7.13 
5.69 
3.52 
5.35 
9.94 
26.00 
10.34 
7.90 ± 6.89 
± 
3.1 
VOI protocol 
Test* 
Retest* 
2.34 
1.37 
1.57 
1.77 
2.20 
2.07 
1.68 
2.03 
1.61 
1.64 
1.83 
0.31 
± 
0.96 
2.30 
1.31 
1.43 
1.91 
2.27 
2.17 
1.72 
1.84 
2.02 
1.54 
1.85 
0.35 
± 
Variability
** 
2.07 
4.62 
9.51 
7.81 
3.40 
4.47 
2.19 
10.03 
22.95 
6.52 
7.36 ± 6.16 
* Data expressed as ratio of striatal to non specific binding 
**Absolute values of the test/retest difference expressed as percentage of the mean of the test and retest 
measures. 
***Intraclass correlation coefficient (p).  
      ROI = region of interest: VOI = volume of interest. 
This small study showed the reliability of the technique. 
SPECT  imaging  of  striatal  dopamine  transporters  and  D2  receptors  in  patients  with  autosomal 
recessive doparesponsive dystonia: The deficiency of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) has been reported in 
a  recessive  form  of  dopa-responsive  dystonia  (DRD).  The  ratio  of  specific  to  non-specific  striatal  
ioflupane (123I) binding were high in comparison with those reported for healthy adult volunteers. This 
indicated that extrapyramidal symptoms in this condition were unlikely to be due to degeneration of 
the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway. 
(This study was not directly relevant to the indications sought by the company). 
The  supportive  studies  confirmed  decreased  striatal  uptake  of  Iodine-123-ioflupane  in  patients  with 
Parkinson's disease and reliability of the technique in a one-day procedure.  
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
454  subjects  as  a  total  were  exposed  to  DaTSCAN:  266  enrolled  in  the  main  studies  (57  healthy 
volunteers and 209 patients, mainly PD patients), 88 from supportive studies and 100 from on going 
studies. 
The activity used in the applicant-sponsored (main) studies ranged from 88 to 200 MBq. 
Adverse events and serious adverse events/deaths 
Although a global safety summary has not been provided, the company expert's comments did include 
an overall view of the safety of the product.  
No deaths were reported.  
12/17 
                   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were two severe adverse events (headache and extrapyramidal syndrome - one case each). Both 
occurred in patients with true Parkinsonian syndrome. A total of 65 adverse events were reported out 
of  which  30  were  probably  or  possibly  related  to  the  product.  Most  of  these  events  were  headache, 
vertigo and increased appetite. 
There  were  no  adverse  events  in  Phase  I  and  II  studies.  No  significant  changes  were  noted  in  vital 
signs, ECG and clinical laboratory parameters.  
Safety in main study CY96.FP II: Only one out of 30 subject in this study reported an adverse event 
-  exacerbation  of  a  PD  symptom  at  approximately  two  hours  post  injection  (severe  `off  phase').  No 
other adverse events were recorded during this study. 
Safety  in  main  study  DP  008  -  003:  Out  of  224  patients/healthy  volunteers  in  this  study,  
65  adverse  events  were  reported  in  36  subjects.  Thirty  events  (46.2%)  were  probably  related  to  the 
injection. All adverse events reported in this study are shown in the table below: 
Summary of all adverse events 
Adverse Event 
Asthenia 
Chest Pain 
‘Flu’ Syndrome 
Headache 
Injection Site Haemorrhage 
Injection Site Reaction 
Lab Test Abnormal (CPK) 
Malaise 
Pain 
Constipation 
Dry Mouth 
Increased Appetite 
Nausea 
Thyroid Disorder 
Anaemia 
Hypoproteinemia 
Bursitis 
Extrapyramidal Syndrome 
Hypertonia 
Parasthesia (formication) 
Tremor 
Vertigo 
Cough Increased 
Dyspnea 
Albuminuria 
Hematuria 
Kidney pain 
Urinary Tract Infection 
HV 
(n = 35) 
0(0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (5.7%) 
2 (5.7%) 
1 (2.9%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (2.9%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (2.9%) 
1 (2.9%) 
1 (2.9%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
ET 
(n=29) 
1 (3.4%) 
1 (3.4%) 
1 (3.4%) 
1 (3.4%) 
2 (6.9%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (3.4%) 
1 (3.4%) 
1 (3.4%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (3.4%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (3.4%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (3.4%) 
0 (0.0%) 
PS 
(n=160) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
3 (1.9%) 
11 (6.9%) 
2 (1.3%) 
1 (0.6%) 
1 (0.6%) 
1 (0.6%) 
2 (1.3%) 
1 (0.6%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (0.6%) 
1 (0.6%) 
1 (0.6%) 
1 (0.6%) 
1 (0.6%) 
1 (0.6%) 
1 (0.6%) 
1 (0.6%) 
1 (1.3%) 
1 (1.3%) 
4 (2.5%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (0.6%) 
1 (0.6%) 
1 (0.6%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (0.6%) 
Multiple  occurrences  of  the  same  adverse  event  within  a  patient/volunteer  were  collapsed  to  the 
adverse event of maximum (worst) severity. 
13/17 
                   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laboratory findings 
Laboratory data were analysed in the pivotal studies.  
No significant abnormalities were observed in haematological and blood chemistry evaluations in the 
phase II study. 
Study DP 008-003 which had larger number of patients showed some abnormalities in platelet count, 
prothrombin time, creatinine, ASAT, ALAT, Gamma-GT, LDH, CPK, CK-MB and CK-MM. 
Platelet count The mean value of platelet count was marginally higher in patients with PS compared 
to  patients  with  ET  (essential  tremors)  and  HV  (healthy  volunteers).  The  minimum  values  in  these 
patients were lower and maximum values higher, compared to HV and ET group. 
Prothrombin  time  The  maximum  values  of  prothrombin  time  were  significantly  higher  in  PS 
patients, compared with HV and ET patients. 
Serum  creatinine  Although  the  mean  values  were  similar  in  all  three  groups,  the  minimum  and 
maximum values in patients with PS were lower and higher respectively, even at screening. 
ASAT: The maximum values were higher in PS patients even at screening. 
ALAT: Although there were no differences in mean values in three groups, the minimum values were 
lower and maximum values higher in PS patients. 
Gamma-GT: The mean values were similar in all the groups but the maximum values were higher in 
patients with PS, even at screening. 
LDH: In PS patients, the minimum values were lower and maximum values were higher compared to 
HV and ET patients. 
CPK: Higher values were noted in patients with PS even at screening. This was true for CK-MB also. 
The  mean  CK-MM  values  were  higher  at  imaging  in  patients  with  PS.  The  minimum  values  were 
lower and maximum values higher than other groups. 
Safety in special populations 
No specific populations have been studied other than those patients reported in the main studies. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The  applicant  has  developed  a  product  of  satisfactory  quality  in  relation  to  the  clinical  use,  i.e.  a 
stable,  sterile  solution  suitable  for  injection.  The  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  and 
provides  a  satisfactory  assurance  that  the  product  will  be  sterile  when  opened  for  the  first  time. 
Methods used for batch control and stability studies have been validated and should ensure a product 
of reproducible quality. 
Pre-clinical safety 
The preclinical dossier is satisfactory on the whole in that it demonstrates that the active ingredient of 
the  product  presented  has  the  pharmacological  properties  and  the  kinetics  suitable  for  the  intended 
application. 
The doses tested were well chosen and leave a wide safety margin for any unexpected side effects, not 
likely anyway given the low chemical dose administered (6 ng/kg). The vehicle was in most cases that 
intended for the product for marketing.  
The  general  pharmacology  trials  concerned  only  the  cardiovascular  domain,  and  general  behaviour. 
However,  the  toxicity  studies  do  not  suggest  any  likelihood  of  adverse  effects  on  digestive  or  other 
domains, given the low dose administered (6 ng/kg). 
14/17 
                   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
From the data submitted, DaTSCAN may be considered as safe and well tolerated. 
Overall there were no concerns relating to laboratory abnormalities. 
Clinical efficacy 
DaTSCAN is able to detect loss of functional dopaminergic neuron terminals in the striatum by means 
of visual assessment of SPECT images.  
Therefore it may have a role in helping specialists to differentiate Essential Tremor from Parkinsonian 
Syndromes  related  to  idiopathic  Parkinson’s  Disease,  Multiple  System  Atrophy  and  Progressive 
Supranuclear Palsy. There was no experience with types of tremor other than Essential Tremor. On the 
evidence available, it is unable to discriminate between Parkinson's Disease, Multiple System Atrophy 
and Progressive Supranuclear Palsy.  
The  specificity  and  sensitivity  were  high  with  reference  to  clinical  diagnosis  in  the  absence  of  a 
practical gold standard, i.e. post-mortem examination. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
During  the  evaluation  of  this  product,  there  were  concerns  over  its  clinical  usefulness,  i.e.  is  the 
differential diagnosis of Parkinsonian Syndromes related to PD, PSP or MSA versus ET useful for the 
patient or the health care provider? Furthermore there were methodological concerns related to the fact 
that the patients in the Phase III studies were mostly established cases of Parkinsonism, and these are 
probably not the patient population where the product is to be used. It was initially not clear whether 
ongoing studies could be modified to provide relevant and useful information.  
These concerns were summarised in the following list, and in order to assist the CPMP to come to an 
opinion, this list of issues was given to an ad hoc group of experts to consider. - 
1. 
Is there a rôle for a diagnostic product such as DaTSCAN in the early differential diagnosis by 
specialists of Parkinsonism versus Essential Tremor?  
2.  What would be the benefit to the patient and his/her management arising from the use  of this 
product? 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
Could the patient population which would benefit from this agent be defined, and are the data 
sufficient to support it?  
The  sensitivity  and  specificity  of  the  test  have  been  derived  from  a  population  in  which  the 
diagnosis of Parkinsonism was clinically very probable, i.e. derived from a population in which 
the diagnosis was established and in a later stage. The test will be used in patients in whom the 
diagnosis  is  difficult  and  uncertain.  The  group  should  consider  the  relevance  of  extrapolating 
sensitivity and specificity from one patient population to the other. 
Are  the  criteria  for  differentiating  normal  &  abnormal  scans  sufficiently  well  described  to 
establish a reliable ‘cutoff’ between positive and negative tests, thus enabling a valid estimation 
of the proportion of false positives and false negatives? 
The  applicant  will  supply  separate  details  on  currently  ongoing  studies.  If  there  are  doubts 
concerning the answers to questions 3, 4 and 5, is it likely that the results of the ongoing studies 
would be relevant and helpful in order to clarify the answer?  
If  the  response  to  question  6  is  “no”,  does  the  group  believe  that  it  is  feasible  to  undertake  a 
further  study  to  support  the  proposed  indication  and  obtain  useful  results  within,  say,  15 
months? 
15/17 
                   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Following  the  report  of  the  ad  hoc  group  and  further  discussion  by  CPMP,  the  CPMP  reached  the 
following conclusions -  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
There  is  a  role  for  a  diagnostic  product  such  as  DaTSCAN  in  the  differential  diagnosis  by 
movement disorder specialists. From the evidence available it is a good indicator of functional 
striatal dopaminergic neuronal loss. 
It was agreed that patients would benefit from the greater diagnostic confidence afforded by the 
use  of  DaTSCAN.  This  would  avoid  inappropriate  therapy  and  enable  better  patient 
information/advice  to  be  given.  The  degree  of  benefit  depends  on  the  predictability  and 
reliability of imaging with DaTSCAN, which appears to be good. 
It was considered by the experts in nuclear medicine and movement disorders that the data are 
sufficient to discriminate between patients with defective and intact nigrostriatal pathways. The 
patient population which would benefit from DaTSCAN and which was supported by the data 
in the dossier was described by the indication. 
In addition, it was agreed that there should be a statement in section 5.1 of the SPC to the effect 
that  there was no experience in patients with types of tremor other than essential tremor.  
The methodological issue was the most difficult to decide, i.e. the validity of extrapolation from 
the Phase III clinical trial population to the early stage patient population for which DaTSCAN 
would be indicated. The limitations of the Phase III study were discussed, in particular, the open 
design and the short duration of follow-up. However , the CPMP were reassured with regard to 
the following points : 
in all of the patients with Hoehn &Yahr stage 1 Parkinson’s disease (unilateral symptoms only) 
the DaTSCAN images were abnormal bilaterally.  
in these images striatal uptake was decreased on average by 50% on the contralateral side and 
30 - 35% on the ipsilateral side.  
it  is  accepted  amongst  experts  in  movement  disorders  that  by  the  time  that  patients  with 
Parkinson’s  disease  become  symptomatic  they  have  already  lost  30  –  50%  of  nigrostriatal 
dopaminergic  neurones.  Thus  any  symptomatic  patient,  however  early,  would  be  expected  to 
have an abnormal DaTSCAN image. 
Preliminary  information  was  available  from  an  ongoing  study  regarding  imaging  with 
DaTSCAN in patients with early Parkinson’s disease 
In  a  study  in  patients  with  clinical  diagnosis  of  Lewy  bodies  dementia,  DaTSCAN  diagnosis 
agreed  with  neuropathology  in  5  post-mortem  examinations.  The  clinical  diagnosis  was 
consistent with post-mortem findings in only one of these five cases. 
Discussion  of  the  above  information  persuaded  the  majority  of  CPMP  Members  that  it  was 
possible  in  this  case  to  extrapolate  from  one  patient  population  to  the  other.  Those  not 
persuaded felt that although the proof of concept was convincing, absolute confirmation was not 
yet available. 
With  respect  to  false  negative  scans,  because  significant  neuronal  loss  occurs  before  the 
appearance  of  symptoms  in  a  patient  with  Parkinson’s  disease,  it  was  felt  that  a  clear  cut  off 
between normal and abnormal scans should always be discernible. With respect to false positive 
and false negative scans, CPMP were reassured by the high degree of concordance between the 
blinded read and the institutional read in the Phase III study. 
It was agreed that ongoing studies could provide useful information. It was felt that one study in 
particular  (PDT  03004)  could  be  made  more  useful  by  protocol  amendments  to  increase  the 
sample  size,  to  increase  the  duration  of  follow  up,  and  to  ensure  independent  (and  blinded) 
clinical follow up. (This study includes patients with early features of parkinsonism compared 
with healthy volunteers). The CPMP requested the applicant to provide the results of this study 
as a post-authorisation follow-up measure - details are set out in Section II.3 of this report. (The 
long time allowed for submission of these results may be justified by the nature of the disease 
and its progression). 
16/17 
                   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Concerning safety, the risk is considered to be low; DaTSCAN appears to be safe and well-tolerated. 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by majority 
decision that the benefit/risk profile of DaTSCAN was favourable in the following indication: 
DaTSCAN is indicated for detecting loss of functional dopaminergic neuron terminals in the striatum 
of patients with clinically uncertain Parkinsonian Syndromes, in  order to  help differentiate Essential 
Tremor  from  Parkinsonian  Syndromes  related  to  idiopathic  Parkinson’s  Disease,  Multiple  System 
Atrophy  and  Progressive  Supranuclear  Palsy.  DaTSCAN  is  unable  to  discriminate  between 
Parkinson's Disease, Multiple System Atrophy and Progressive Supranuclear Palsy. 
17/17 
                   EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
