Summary of risk management plan for glasdegib (PF-04449913) 
This is a summary of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) for glasdegib. The RMP 
details important risks of glasdegib, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about glasdegib’s risks. Routine risk assessment and risk 
minimisation are considered sufficient to address glasdegib’s important risks. 
Glasdegib's proposed Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its Package 
Leaflet (PL) give essential information to Healthcare Professionals (HCPs) and 
patients on how glasdegib should be used.   
This summary of the RMP for glasdegib should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).   
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
glasdegib’s RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What It Is Used For 
Glasdegib is proposed to be used in combination with Low-Dose Cytarabine (LDAC) 
for the treatment of newly-diagnosed de novo or secondary Acute Myeloid 
Leukaemia (AML) in adult patients who are not candidates for standard induction 
chemotherapy; see the proposed glasdegib SmPC for the full indication. Glasdegib is 
proposed to be taken orally (PO) once daily (QD) with or without food; the proposed 
starting dose of glasdegib is 100 mg PO QD. Glasdegib oral, film-coated tablets are 
proposed to be available containing either 25 mg or 100 mg of glasdegib. 
Further information about the evaluation of glasdegib’s benefits can be found in 
glasdegib’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage. 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/daurismo     
II. Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of glasdegib, together with measures to minimise such risks, are 
outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in 
the PL and SmPC addressed to patients and HCPs; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g., 
with or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Page  1 
 
 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.   
In addition to these measures, information about Adverse Events (AEs) is collected 
continuously and regularly analysed so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary.    These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.   
II.A. List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of a medicinal product are risks that need special risk management 
activities in order to further investigate or minimise the risk so that the medicinal 
product can be safely taken.    Important risks can be regarded as identified or 
potential.    Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link 
with the use of a medicinal product.    Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of a medicinal product is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established and needs further evaluation.     
Missing information refers to information on the safety of a medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., the long-term use of the medicine).   
Table 1.  List of Important Risks and Missing Information of Glasdegib 
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Reproductive and Developmental Toxicity (injury to unborn baby/ decreased 
growth and ability to have children) 
Renal Toxicity (kidney injury) 
Missing information 
None 
II.B. Summary of Important Risks 
Table 2. 
Important Potential Risks of Glasdegib 
Important Potential Risk: Reproductive and Developmental Toxicity (injury to unborn baby/ decreased 
growth and ability to have children) 
Evidence for linking the 
Glasdegib studies in animals and other drugs in this class (Smoothened [SMO] 
risk to the medicine: 
inhibitor Hedgehog [Hh] pathway inhibitors) 
Studies in animals treated with glasdegib and other drugs in this class have shown 
injuries to their unborn; however, there is currently no data on foetal exposure in 
humans.    Glasdegib may cause foetal harm when administered to a pregnant 
woman. 
Risk factors and risk 
Risk factors and risk groups include women of childbearing potential, pregnant 
groups: 
women, male patients with female partners of childbearing potential, lactating 
Risk minimisation 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
women, and paediatric patients (age: <18 years). 
measures: 
SmPC Sections 4.4 (boxed warning), 4.6, 5.1, and 5.3; PL Sections 2 and 4 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Page  2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2. 
Important Potential Risks of Glasdegib 
Patient Alert Card for male patients 
Additional 
None proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
Important Potential Risk: Renal Toxicity (kidney injury) 
Evidence for linking the 
Glasdegib animal and human studies 
risk to the medicine: 
Studies in animals treated with glasdegib have shown kidney injury.    Kidney 
adverse events have been observed in patients treated with glasdegib, often due to 
other non-kidney factors or as a result of or made worse by other glasdegib effects 
(e.g., diarrhoea, vomiting, decreased oral intake); however, an imbalance in 
evidence of kidney injury (creatinine elevation) was not seen in patients with acute 
myeloid leukaemia who received glasdegib + low-dose cytarabine (a medicine 
used to treat cancer) compared to patients with acute myeloid leukaemia who 
received low-dose cytarabine alone. 
Risk factors and risk 
Patients with pre-existing or past history of kidney disease and patients receiving 
groups: 
potentially kidney-injuring agents may be at a greater risk of developing kidney 
injury with glasdegib treatment.    In addition, older patients, patients with 
diabetes, patients who smoke, and those who are inactive are at a greater risk of 
developing kidney dysfunction or of having a more rapid progression of kidney 
dysfunction. 
Risk minimisation 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
measures: 
SmPC Sections 4.2, 4.4, and 5.3 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None proposed 
None proposed 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
SmPC = Summary of Product Characteristics; PL = Package Leaflet 
II.C. Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1. Studies that are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation or that are 
specific obligations of glasdegib. 
II.C.2. Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for glasdegib. 
Page  3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
