26 June 2020 
EMADOC-1700519818-469095 
EMA/OD/0000020246 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Daurismo (glasdegib maleate) 
Treatment of acute myeloid leukaemia 
EU/3/17/1923 
Sponsor: Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 5 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 ............................................................. 5 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 ............................................................. 7 
4. COMP position adopted on 20 May 2020 ................................................ 13 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000020246 
Page 2/13 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Active substances(s) at the time of orphan 
Glasdegib maleate 
designation 
Other name(s) 
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Tradename 
Orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details 
- 
Glasdegib 
Daurismo 
Treatment of acute myeloid leukaemia  
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard De La Plaine 17 
1050 Brussels  
Brussels-Capital Region 
Belgium  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number 
Post-designation procedural history 
Pfizer Limited 
7 September 2017 
16 October 2017 
EU/3/17/1923 
Transfer of sponsorship  
Transfer from Pfizer Limited to Pfizer Europe MA EEIG - 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
EC decision of 3 October 2018 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
A. Moreau / S. B. Sarac 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG   
29 April 2019 
23 May 2019 
EMA/H/C/004878 
Daurismo 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
Daurismo is indicated, in combination with low-dose 
cytarabine, for the treatment of newly diagnosed de 
novo or secondary acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) in 
adult patients who are not candidates for standard 
induction chemotherapy. Further information on 
Daurismo can be found in the European public 
assessment report (EPAR) on the Agency’s website 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPA
CHMP opinion date 
R/Daurismo 
30 April 2020 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
K. Penttila / F. Naumann-Winter 
Sponsor’s report submission date 
14 October 2019 
COMP discussion, adoption of list of 
21-23 April, 4 May 2020 
questions (via written procedure)  
COMP cancelation of oral hearing date 
COMP opinion date 
18 May 2020 
20 May 2020 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000020246 
Page 3/13 
 
 
 
 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
Orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2017 designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
The sponsor Pfizer Limited submitted on 15 June 2017 an application for designation as an orphan 
medicinal product to the European Medicines Agency for a medicinal product containing glasdegib 
maleate for treatment of acute myeloid leukaemia (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”). The 
application was submitted on the basis of Article 3(1)(a) first paragraph of Regulation (EC) No 
141/2000 on orphan medicinal products. 
Having examined the application, the COMP considered that the sponsor has established the following: 
• 
• 
• 
the intention to treat the condition with the medicinal product containing glasdegib maleate was 
considered justified based on preliminary clinical data showing complete response when the 
product is used in combination with decitabine and cytarabine;  
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to the consequences of the bone 
marrow dysfunction, such as intracranial or gastro-intestinal haemorrhagic episodes, disseminated 
intravascular coagulation and the risk of severe infections. The condition progresses rapidly and is 
fatal within days to weeks or a few months if left untreated;  
the condition was estimated to be affecting approximately 1.1 in 10,000 persons in the European 
Union, at the time the application was made.  
Thus, the requirements under Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal 
products are fulfilled. 
In addition, although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition exist in the European Union, 
the sponsor has provided sufficient justification for the assumption that the medicinal product 
containing glasdegib maleate will be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition. The 
sponsor has provided preliminary clinical data that demonstrate a complete response in patients when 
the product was used in combination with decitabine and cytarabine. The Committee considered that 
this constitutes a clinically relevant advantage. 
Thus, the requirement under Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal 
products is fulfilled. 
The COMP concludes that the requirements laid down in Article (3)(1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EC) 
No 141/2000 on orphan medicinal products are fulfilled. The COMP therefore recommends the 
designation of this medicinal product, containing glasdegib maleate, as an orphan medicinal product 
for the orphan indication: treatment of acute myeloid leukaemia. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000020246 
Page 4/13 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation  
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) is a disease characterised by rapid, uncontrolled proliferation of 
malignant clonal haematopoietic stem cells that accumulate as immature, undifferentiated cells 
(blasts) and lead to impaired production of normal haematopoietic elements, which in turn leads to 
anaemia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia. The COMP continues to accept AML as an orphan 
condition for the purpose of orphan designation and maintenance. 
The approved therapeutic indication “Daurismo is indicated, in combination with low-dose cytarabine, 
for the treatment of newly diagnosed de novo or secondary acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) in adult 
patients who are not candidates for standard induction chemotherapy” falls within the scope of the 
designated orphan condition “treatment of acute myeloid leukaemia”. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been confirmed by a positive benefit/risk assessment from CHMP, please 
see EPAR. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
At the time of initial designation, the COMP agreed that the condition was chronically debilitating and 
life-threatening. At the time of this review, AML is presented to the COMP to remain chronically 
debilitating and life threatening. Outcomes are worse for patients aged ≥ 60 years, with CR rates in 
the range of 40% to 55% and poor long-term survival rates. 
The COMP concluded that the condition remains life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to the 
consequences of bone marrow dysfunction, such as intracranial or gastro-intestinal haemorrhagic 
episodes, disseminated intravascular coagulation, and the risk of severe infections. The condition 
progresses rapidly and is fatal within a few months if left untreated. 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The Sponsor has re-estimated the prevalence for overall acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) in the 
European Union (EU) for 2019 by accounting for the proportion of survival among patients diagnosed 
with AML. The prevalence of AML was estimated to be 1.3 cases per 10,000 population in 2019 based 
on regional registries and a systematic literature search. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000020246 
Page 5/13 
 
 
 
 
Table 1.   
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000020246 
Page 6/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall 1- and 5-year survival proportions across the EU were obtained from literature: 37% and 19%, 
respectively (Visser et al 2012). Because overall estimates for 2-, 3-, 4-, 6-, 7-, 8-, 9-, and 10-year 
survival proportions in Europe were not available in the literature, to be conservative the 1-year 
survival proportion was applied for 2- to 4- year survival and the 5- year survival proportion for 6- to 
10-year survival. 
The number of cases alive in 2019 according to the year of diagnosis (except 2019) was estimated by 
applying the number of incident AML cases in each year to corresponding survival proportions. For 
example, the number of incident AML cases in 2009 was multiplied by the 10-year survival proportion 
to obtain the number of AML cases diagnosed in 2009 who were alive in 2019. All incident cases 
diagnosed in 2019 were considered alive in 2019.Total number of AML cases in 2019 was the sum of 
cases alive from each year of diagnosis over a 10-year period. The total prevalent AML cases (i.e. 
68,965) were divided by the 2019 EU population. Therefore, the AML prevalence for 2019 is projected 
to be 1.3 per 10,000 population in the EU. 
The COMP accepted this final estimation. 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000020246 
Page 7/13 
 
 
 
 
 
Existing methods 
The following products were identified to be authorised for the treatment of the orphan condition: 
histamine dihydrochloride, decitabine, azacitidine, daunorubicin, idarubicin, mitoxantrone, etoposide, 
cytarabine (Ara-C), thioguanine, L-asparaginase, doxorubicin, vincristine sulphate, cyclophosphamide. 
Rydapt (midostaurin) has been authorised in combination with standard daunorubicin and cytarabine 
induction and high dose cytarabine consolidation chemotherapy, and for patients in complete response 
followed by Rydapt single agent maintenance therapy, for adult patients with newly diagnosed acute 
myeloid leukaemia (AML) who are FLT3 mutation positive. 
Vyxeos (daunorubicin and cytarabine) has been authorised for the treatment of adults with newly 
diagnosed, therapy-related acute myeloid leukaemia (t-AML) or AML with myelodysplasia-related 
changes (AML-MRC). 
Mylotarg (gemtuzumab ozogamicin) has recently been authorised and is indicated for combination 
therapy with daunorubicin (DNR) and cytarabine (AraC) for the treatment of patients age 15 years and 
above with previously untreated, de novo CD33-positive acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), except acute 
promyelocytic leukaemia (APL). 
Xospata (gilteritinib) has been recently authorised and is indicated as monotherapy for the treatment 
of adult patients who have relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) with a FLT3 
mutation. 
The COMP also considered the latest European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) treatment 
guideline from M. Heuser, Y. Ofran, N. Boissel, S. Brunet Mauri, C. Craddock, J. Janssen, A. 
Wierzbowska & C. Buske, on behalf of the ESMO Guidelines Committee Ann Oncol (2020); 31(0): 0-0. 
Significant benefit 
The sponsor is proposing that their product glasdegib when used in combination will offer a significant 
benefit in adult patients who are not candidates for standard induction chemotherapy. The therapeutic 
indication is: 
“Daurismo is indicated, in combination with low-dose cytarabine, for the treatment of newly diagnosed 
de novo or secondary acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) in adult patients who are not candidates for 
standard induction chemotherapy”. 
The table below summarises, within the current treatment algorithm, which patient population the 
sponsor is targeting. 
Table 2.   
Newly diagnosed 
R/R 
Maintenance 
Fit 
Induction 
Rydapt  
• 
• 
“7+3” AraC + daunorubicin 
[idarubicin 
•  Rydapt in combination with 7+3 
(FLT3 mutated) 
•  Mylotarg in combination with 
7+3 (CD33+) 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000020246 
Page 8/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Newly diagnosed 
R/R 
Maintenance 
Consolidation 
• 
intermediate-dose 
cytarabine or autoSCT 
•  alloSCT 
Non-fit 
Azacitidine 
Azacitidine 
Ceplene in combination 
Decitabine 
Low dose cytarabine 
GLASDEGIB+LDAC 
with interleukin 2 (not 
shown for patients >60) 
Fitness not 
Vyxeos (secondary AML; compared 
Xospata mono 
mentioned  
to 7+3) 
(FLT3) 
“Old” broad 
Cytarabine; Etoposide; L-
labels 
Asparaginase, cyclophosphamide, 
(neither line 
doxorubicin, daunorubucin, 
nor fitness 
idarubicin mercaptopurine, 
mentioned  
mitoxantrone, vincristine sulfate,  
The claim for significant benefit uses both clinically relevant advantage and major contribution to 
patient care claims although the greatest effort by the sponsor is made to prove a clinically relevant 
advantage. Daurismo is administered as an oral formulation. The other products used in the target 
patient population are given iv or sc. 
To support the significant benefit, data from the pivotal study B1371003 has been submitted. 
B1371003 was a multi-centre, open-label Phase 1b/2 study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 
glasdegib when administered in combination with first-line treatment regimens for AML and high-risk 
MDS. Efficacy of glasdegib + LDAC was mainly supported by the Phase 2 and especially the portion of 
the trial, in which patients unfit for intensive induction were recruited. Patients who were not 
candidates for intensive chemotherapy were randomised (2:1) to receive either glasdegib + LDAC or 
LDAC alone and were stratified by prognostic risk factor (good/intermediate or poor) based on 
cytogenetics. 
Although the sponsor came twice for Protocol Assistance, they did not raise a question on significant 
benefit. 
Claim for Significant benefit based on a clinically relevant advantage 
The proposed therapeutic indication the sponsor has submitted targets elderly adult patients who are 
unfit for standard chemotherapy. The 2020 ESMO Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of 
adult patients with AML, which have just appeared online (M. Heuser, Y. Ofran, N. Boissel, S. Brunet 
Mauri, C. Craddock, J. Janssen, A. Wierzbowska & C. Buske, on behalf of the ESMO Guidelines 
Committee Ann Oncol (2020); 31(0): 0-0), state the following with respect to the standard of care: 
Primary refractory and relapsed AML patients not eligible for standard chemotherapy (ChT) 
The therapeutic options in unfit AML patients aim at controlling disease progression and minimising 
treatment-related mortality (TRM). In FLT3-mutated patients, we recommend treatment with 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000020246 
Page 9/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
gilteritinib, which showed a favourable response rate and improved OS compared with ChT (mOS 9.3 
versus 5.6 months) [I, A] [89]. Quizartinib also showed a survival benefit in relapsed/refractory FLT3-
ITD-mutated patients but was not approved in Europe (mOS 6.2 versus 4.7 months) [100]. If the 
patient is considered ineligible, azacitidine or decitabine (HMA) should be applied if LDAC was given in 
first line, and LDAC may be applied in favourable- and intermediate-risk patients if an HMA was given 
initially [IV, C] (Figure below). In a cohort of 655 relapsed/refractory AML patients treated with 
azacitidine or decitabine, the CR/CRi rate was found to be 16.3% with mOS of 6.7 months, with no 
differences observed between agents [101]. If available, venetoclax in combination with HMA or LDAC 
is a promising second-line treatment with overall response rates of 21%–43% [87,88]. In 
IDH1/IDH2mut patients, inhibitors ivosidenib [102] and enasidenib [103], respectively, show 
considerable activity as single agents in relapsed/refractory patients, and will expand the treatment 
options once they become available. 
Figure 1.   
Treatment algorithm for second-line treatment in relapsed/refractory AML patients. alloHCT, allogeneic 
hematopoietic cell transplantation; AML, acute myeloid leukaemia; BSC, best supportive care; ChT, chemotherapy; 
CR, complete remission; CRi, complete remission with incomplete haematological recovery; DLI, donor lymphocyte 
infusion; HMA, hypomethylating agent; LDAC, low-dose cytarabine; PR, partial remission; R/R, relapsed/refractory; 
SD, stable disease. 
The combination of venetoclax, and ivosidenib or enasidenib in patients with IDH1/IDH2mut have not 
received a marketing authorisation in Europe for treatment in this target patient population. These 
products therefore are used off-label and are not considered in the assessment of significant benefit. 
Thus, the target patient population identified by the sponsor has three authorised options: LDAC, 
azacitadine and decitabine which are considered standard of care (SOC).  
Data submitted from the pivotal study B1371003 show a median overall survival in 78 AML patients 
treated with the combination was 8.3 months (95% CI 4.7, 12.2) compared to SOC in 38 patients with 
LDAC alone of 4.3 months (95 CI 1.9, 5.7); HR=0.463 with p=0.0002. In the 49 AML patients with 
good/intermediate cytogenetic prognostic risk group, the median overall survival was 11.1 months 
(95% CI 7.1, 14.9) in the active treatment arm compared to 4.4 (95% CI 1.8, 8.7) in 21 patients with 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000020246 
Page 10/13 
 
 
 
 
 
good/ intermediate prognoses in the standard arm; HR=0.417 with p=0.0011. The median overall 
survival in 29 patients with poor prognostics and newly diagnosed AML, treated by glasdegib + LDAC 
was 4.4 months (95% CI 3.4, 9.1) compared to a median overall survival of 3.1 months (95% CI 1.1. 
6.4) in 17 patients with poor prognostic features and treated by LDAC alone; HR=0.528 with 
p=0.0269. 
Figure 2.  Kaplan-Meier Plot of Overall Survival in AML Patients in the Study B1371003 Phase 2 Non-
Intensive Population 
Stratified per IVRS. Upper (blue) curve=glasdegib + LDAC; lower (red) curve=LDAC alone CI=confidence interval, 
LDAC=low-dose cytarabine; OS=overall survival; SCE=summary of clinical efficacy; IVRS=Interactive Voice 
Response System 
The clinical data provides the basis of a better overall survival when unfit patients receive combination 
treatment with glasdegib and LDAC than LDAC used alone. It can be accepted that a glasdegib + LDAC 
combination will offer a clinically relevant advantage in unfit elderly adult AML patients over LDAC 
alone.  
The clinically relevant advantage over LDAC was adequately supported by a head-to-head 
comparison in a randomised trial. For the demonstration of significant benefit over azacitidine and 
decitabine, the sponsor used two indirect methods.  
First, aggregate data were compared in an Indirect Trial Comparison (ITC) based on the clinical trials 
which compared one of the substances to LDAC. OS data from subgroups for each of the three selected 
studies were extracted. For glasdegib + LDAC, only patients with AML and not MDS were included 
(n=116). In the azacitidine trial, investigators decided for each patient what was the most appropriate 
azacitidine comparator: best supportive care (BSC), LDAC, or intensive chemotherapy (IC) prior to 
randomization. Patients were then randomly assigned to receive azacitidine or the investigator’s 
predetermined choice of treatment. To align patient populations most closely, the subgroup of 
azacitidine patients who were pre-selected for suitability to receive LDAC, and who were randomized to 
receive azacitidine (n=154), against the LDAC arm (n=158) were included in the ITC analysis. The 
decitabine trial only reported OS results for a pooled LDAC/BSC population, so results were included for 
patients receiving decitabine (n=242) and LDAC/BSC (n=243). This methodology is likely an 
overestimation of decitabine’s effect compared to LDAC and ultimately results in a conservative indirect 
comparison vis-à-vis glasdegib. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000020246 
Page 11/13 
 
 
 
 
 
With the selected studies, a network of RCTs was established that applied the LDAC treatment arm as 
the common point of reference. Results from the classical ITC showed a significant OS advantage of 
halving the risk (hazard) for glasdegib + LDAC compared with either azacitidine [HR 0.51, 95% CI, 
0.31, 0.85] or decitabine (HR 0.56, 95% CI, 0.35, 0.91). All 95% CIs are <1.0, indicating statistical 
significance in favour of glasdegib +LDAC for the OS endpoint (Figure 3).  
Figure 3.  ITC results for OS: Glasdegib+LDAC Versus Azacitidine or Decitabine 
This conclusion using aggregate data was further supported by using individual patient data (IPD) from 
the glasdegib trial and by comparing the reported aggregate outcomes from the AZA or DEC trials in the 
setting of a Simulated Trial Comparison (STC). Here, the populations were statistically adjusted (and 
hence matched) for differences in baseline covariates between the study populations. It does retain the 
full patient dataset which is important for small trials (as here). Different assumptions and statistical 
models were tested, and all conclude on a HR (95%CI) (OS) of well below 1.  
When conducting STC, the researcher is constrained by the ability only to use data that are actually 
reported for the published comparator trials. While it is not possible to mitigate every limitation that 
exists, each ITC and STC model that the sponsor applied resulted in a consistent, significant OS benefit 
for glasdegib +LDAC over both azacitidine and decitabine. 
Major Contribution to Patient Care  
While the sponsor makes a thorough overview of publications on the benefits for home care in general, 
as well as refers to interviews with AML patients, no data on PROs or QoL were actually reported from 
the pivotal study by the sponsor. As the study was open-label such data would anyway have been of 
limited value. The sponsor also highlighted the advantage of having home-based care especially during 
the COVID pandemic.  
The COMP considered that the justification on significant benefit was adequate, particularly with 
regards to a clinically relevant advantage.  
In conclusion the COMP considered they could recommend maintaining the orphan designation.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000020246 
Page 12/13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on 20 May 2020 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan condition of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of acute myeloid leukaemia (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was 
estimated to remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be 1.3 in 10,000 persons in the 
European Union, at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to the consequences of the bone 
marrow dysfunction, such as intracranial or gastro-intestinal haemorrhagic episodes, disseminated 
intravascular coagulation and the risk of severe infections. The condition progresses rapidly and is 
fatal within days to weeks or a few months if left untreated; 
although satisfactory methods for the treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the assumption that Daurismo may be of significant benefit still holds. The 
sponsor has established with direct comparison data that the combination of low dose cytarabine 
with Daurismo will offer an improved overall survival when compared to low dose cytarabine used 
as monotherapy. In addition, the sponsor has provided an indirect comparison to azacitadine and 
decitabine to the combination of low dose cytarabine with Daurismo showing the combination to 
offer a better overall survival to monotherapy with either azacitadine or decitabine. The COMP 
considered that this constituted a clinically relevant advantage.   
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Daurismo, glasdegib maleate, for 
treatment of acute myeloid leukaemia (EU/3/17/1923) is not removed from the Community Register of 
Orphan Medicinal Products. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000020246 
Page 13/13 
 
 
 
 
