EMA/261911/2020  
EMEA/H/C/004878 
Daurismo (glasdegib) 
An overview of Daurismo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Daurismo and what is it used for? 
Daurismo is a cancer medicine for treating adults with newly-diagnosed acute myeloid leukaemia 
(AML), a cancer of white blood cells. 
It is used in combination with a low dose of cytarabine (another cancer medicine) when the patient 
cannot be treated with standard chemotherapy.  
The active substance in Daurismo is glasdegib. 
Acute myeloid leukaemia is rare, and Daurismo was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used 
in rare diseases) on 16 October 2017. Further information on the orphan designation can be found 
here: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu3171923. 
How is Daurismo used? 
Daurismo can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be prescribed and supervised 
by a doctor experienced in using cancer medicines. 
Daurismo is available as tablets and the recommended starting dose is 100 mg once daily taken by 
mouth. The medicine is given together with a low dose of cytarabine, which is given by injection under 
the skin. Treatment can continue for as long as the patient benefits from it. If certain side effects 
occur, the doctor may reduce the dose of Daurismo or stop the treatment temporarily or permanently. 
Treatment with Daurismo together with other medicines that speed up the breakdown of Daurismo in 
the body called ‘moderate CYP3A4 inducers’ should be avoided, or if it cannot be avoided, the dose of 
Daurismo should be increased. 
For more information about using Daurismo, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Daurismo work? 
The active substance in Daurismo, glasdegib, blocks a protein called 'SMO'. When SMO is not working 
normally, it can play a role in growth of cancer cells and prevent cancer medicines from working. 
Blocking SMO reduces the ability of cancer cells to survive and grow while helping to make cancer 
treatment more effective.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Daurismo have been shown in studies? 
In a main study with 116 patients with newly-diagnosed AML who were not able to have standard 
chemotherapy, Daurismo with cytarabine prolonged patients’ lives compared with patients receiving 
cytarabine alone. Patients receiving Daurismo and low dose of cytarabine lived on average 8.3 months 
compared with 4.3 months for those receiving low-dose cytarabine alone.  
What are the risks associated with Daurismo? 
The most common side effects with Daurismo (which may affect more than 2 in 10 people) are 
anaemia (low red blood cell counts), bleeding, febrile neutropenia (low white blood cell counts with 
fever), nausea (feeling sick), decreased appetite, tiredness, muscle spasms, thrombocytopenia (low 
blood platelet counts), fever, diarrhoea, pneumonia (lung infection), dysgeusia (taste disturbances), 
peripheral oedema (swelling especially of the ankles and feet), constipation, abdominal (belly) pain, 
rash, dyspnoea (difficulty breathing), vomiting and decrease in weight. 
Daurismo can harm the unborn child, causing severe and life-threatening birth defects or death in the 
womb or shortly after birth. Daurismo must therefore never be used by women who are pregnant. 
Women who are able to become pregnant should always use effective contraception during treatment 
and for at least 30 days after the last dose. 
Daurismo may be present in semen. Male patients should always use effective contraception with their 
female partners, including a condom (with spermicide, if available), during treatment and for at least 
30 days after the last dose. 
Daurismo could impair fertility in men. Men may wish to consult their doctor about fertility preservation 
before starting treatment. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Daurismo, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Daurismo authorised in the EU? 
Daurismo has been shown to prolong patients’ lives when added to a low dose of cytarabine in patients 
with acute myeloid leukaemia who have a poor prognosis and few alternatives as they are not able to 
have standard chemotherapy as a first treatment. Side effects are considered manageable. The 
European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Daurismo’s benefits are greater than its risks and it 
can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Daurismo? 
The company that markets Daurismo will provide an alert card to be given to male patients informing 
them about the medicine passing into semen, measures to avoid risks of harm to the unborn child and 
the potential effects on fertility. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Daurismo have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Daurismo are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Daurismo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Daurismo (glasdegib)  
EMA/261911/2020 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Daurismo 
Daurismo received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 June 2020. 
Further information on Daurismo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/daurismo.  
This overview was last updated in 06-2020. 
Daurismo (glasdegib)  
EMA/261911/2020 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
