 PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
 
 
I. 
SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR 
DAXAS (ROFLUMILAST) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  DAXAS.  The  RMP  details 
important risks of DAXAS, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will 
be obtained about DAXAS’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
DAXAS’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how DAXAS should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for DAXAS should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of DAXAS's 
RMP. 
 
 
I.1 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
DAXAS is authorised for maintenance treatment of severe COPD (FEV1 post-bronchodilator 
less than 50% predicted) associated with chronic bronchitis in adult patients with a history of 
frequent  exacerbations  as  add  on  to  bronchodilator  treatment.  It  contains  roflumilast  as  the 
active  substance  and  it  is  given  by  oral  route  of  administration.  Roflumilast  is  available  as 
500 μg film-coated tablets and as 250 μg tablets in EU. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  DAXAS’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  DAXAS’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/daxas. 
 
 
I.2 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND 
ACTIVITIES TO MINIMISE OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE 
THE RISKS 
Important risks of DAXAS, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about DAXAS's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PBRER assessments so that immediate action can be taken 
as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of DAXAS is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
I.2.1 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks of DAXAS are risks that need special risk management  activities to  further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are  concerns  for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of roflumilast. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g. long-term use of the medicine). 
Table I-1 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Weight decrease 
Diarrhoea 
Important potential risks 
Malignant tumours 
Psychiatric disorders (depression, suicidal ideation and behaviour) 
Missing Information 
Long-term treatment 
Infections 
Major cardiovascular events 
 
I.2.2 
Summary of important risks 
Table I-2 
Important identified risk: Weight decrease 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine  
Risk factors and risk groups 
Weight decrease in patients taking roflumilast is related to PDE4 
inhibition, which is based on the interplay between the PDE4 and 
the regulation of glucagonlike peptide-1 (GLP-1), an incretin 
hormone with glucose and weight-lowering properties. 
In clinical studies (pivotal studies M2-124 and M2-125) weight 
decrease was more frequent in patients in the roflumilast groups. 
Weight loss associated with roflumilast was greater in patients with 
gastrointestinal adverse events or headache, or both. 
Risk minimisation measures 
SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.8 
PL sections 2 and 4 
SmPC section 4.4 recommends patients to check their body weight 
regularly and to discontinue roflumilast in case of unexplained and 
clinically concerning weight loss. 
PL section 2 advises to monitor body weight regularly and consult 
the physician in case of unintentional weight loss. 
Post-Authorisation Safety Study D7120R00003 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Table I-3 
Important identified risk: Diarrhoea 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine  
Risk factors and risk groups 
Diarrhoea may be caused by PDE4 (mainly PDE4D) inhibition in the 
gut,  considering  the  activation  by  roflumilast  of  the  cystic  fibrosis 
transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) in human colonic T84 
cells and the role of CFTR in intestinal fluid transport. 
In  clinical  studies  diarrhoea  was  more  frequent  in  patients  in  the 
roflumilast groups and there is a plausible mechanism of action for 
how  roflumilast  may  lead  to  diarrhoea.  In  the  COPD  safety  pool, 
10.1%  of  patients  receiving  roflumilast  500  μg  experienced 
diarrhoea.  In  clinical  studies  (pivotal  studies  M2-124  and  M2-125 
and  the  two  6-month  studies  M2-127  and  M2-128)  diarrhoea  was 
more  frequent  in  patients  in  the  roflumilast  groups  compared  to 
placebo / comparator + placebo. 
In  general,  risk  factors  of  diarrhoea  in  adults  are  gastroenteritis, 
hypersensitivity reactions and tumours located in the gastrointestinal 
tract,  elderly  patients  (e.g.  burden  of  acute  or  chronic  multisystem 
illnesses,  under-nutrition)  as  well  as  systemic  conditions  (e.g. 
hyperthyroidism) and medications (e.g. broad-spectrum antibiotics). 
Diarrhoea is one of the AEs reported due to consequence of increased 
exposure in special populations such as black, non-smoking females, 
or  in  patients  concomitantly  treated  with  CYP1A2/2C19/3A4 
inhibitors. 
Risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.4 and 4.8. 
PL sections 2 and 4. 
SmPC  section  4.4  recommends  the  physicians  to  discontinue 
roflumilast in case of persistent intolerability (diarrhoea) 
PL  section  2  recommends  the  patients  to  inform  the  physicians  if 
diarrhoea do not resolve within the first weeks of treatment. 
 
 
 
Table I-3 
Important identified risk: Diarrhoea 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Post-Authorisation Safety Study D7120R00003 
Table I-4 
Important identified risk: Psychiatric disorders (depression, suicidal 
ideation and behaviour) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine  
Risk factors and risk groups 
Psychiatric disorders (depression, suicidal ideation and behaviour) 
were more common in the roflumilast group compared to the placebo 
in the COPD clinical programme. In the clinical development 
programme, 3 cases of “completed suicide” were reported in the 
roflumilast groups compared to none reported on placebo. In addition, 
2 suicide attempts were reported in the roflumilast 500 μg group 
compared to none on placebo. 
The global prevalence of clinically relevant depression and anxiety is 
40% in patients with COPD compared with 10% in the general 
population. Cigarette smoking has long been recognized as the 
primary cause of COPD in developed countries, and individuals with 
psychiatric comorbidities are twice as likely to be cigarette smokers 
relative to those without psychiatric comorbidities, suggesting that 
psychiatric morbidity could precede the development of COPD.  
In the COPD safety pool, a slightly higher number of patients in the 
placebo group had a previous medical history of depression compared 
to the roflumilast 500 μg group (8.1% vs 7.4%). Risk factors include: 
mental disorders (particularly clinical depression) or history of mental 
disorders, family history of suicide, previous suicide attempt(s), 
history of alcohol and substance abuse, epilepsy, personality traits, 
loss (relational, social, work, or financial), physical illness and certain 
medications. 
There have been post marketing reports of depression, suicidal 
ideation, depression suicidal and panic attack in patients receiving 
roflumilast for COPD. 
Risk minimisation measures 
SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.8  
PL sections 2 and 4 
SmPC section 4.4 advises the physicians to assess the risks and 
benefits of roflumilast therapy in patients with previous or existing 
psychiatric symptoms or if the patients are taking concomitant 
medications which could cause psychiatric events. Also, patients and 
caregivers are instructed to notify the prescriber of any changes in 
behaviour or mood and of any suicidal ideation and to discontinue 
roflumilast in case of new or worsening psychiatric symptoms, or 
suicidal ideation or suicidal attempt. 
PL section 2 recommends the patients to inform the physicians if they 
have any symptoms sleeplessness, anxiety, nervousness, or 
depressive mood before initiation of roflumilast. Patients / care givers 
should inform the physicians in case of any changes in behaviour or 
mood and of any suicidal thoughts. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
AE follow-up questionnaire. 
Post-Authorisation Safety Study D7120R00003 
 
 
 
 
Table I-5 
Important potential risk: Malignant tumours 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Findings from long term observational studies in Europe and the USA 
have reported the incidence of lung cancer in patients with COPD 
between 2.9 and 16.7 per 1,000 person-years, with an overall risk of 
lung cancer at least four times higher than the general population.  
There have been post marketing reports of malignant tumours in 
patients receiving roflumilast for COPD. 
It is well known that COPD is a significant risk factor for lung 
cancer. Approximately 1% of COPD patients develop lung cancer 
every year, which may be associated with genetic susceptibility to 
cigarette smoke. Although a correlation of chronic inflammation and 
smoking has been well established, increasing evidence supports the 
association between COPD and lung cancer independent of smoking 
status. Chronic inflammation caused by toxic gases can induce COPD 
and lung cancer. Known risk factors include family history of cancer, 
advanced age, exposure to chemicals causing cancer, smoking, 
tobacco, and alcohol. 
Risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.4. 
PL section 2  
SmPC section 4.4 recommends not to initiate or existing treatment 
with roflumilast should be stopped in patients with cancers (except 
basal cell carcinoma)  
PL section 2 recommends not to take roflumilast in patients with 
cancer (except basal-cell carcinoma) 
Post-Authorisation Safety Study D7120R00003 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Table I-6 
Important potential risk: Infections 
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
The most common co-morbid conditions at the time 
of COPD diagnosis were related to respiratory 
infections including pneumonia. Compared to the 
non-COPD cohort, COPD patients are at increased 
risk for pneumonia (relative risk [RR] = 16.0) and for 
respiratory infections (RR = 2.2). Considering that 
TNF-α is involved in host defence, there are concerns 
of potential side effects such as the increased risk of 
infections associated with TNF-α blocker therapies.  
There have been post marketing reports of severe 
infections like pneumonia, herpes zoster and 
respiratory infections in patients receiving roflumilast 
for COPD. 
Elderly patients as well as typical concomitant 
medications in the target population (e.g. chronic 
corticosteroid intake potentially leading to immune 
suppression). 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.4 and 4.8 (frequency rare: 
Respiratory tract infections (excluding Pneumonia)) 
PL section 2. 
SmPC section 4.4 recommends not to initiate or 
existing treatment with roflumilast should be stopped 
in patients with severe acute infectious diseases. 
PL section 2 recommends not to take roflumilast in 
patients with severe acute infectious diseases such as 
tuberculosis, or acute hepatitis 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Post-Authorisation Safety Study D7120R00003 
Table I-7 
Important potential risk: Major cardiovascular events 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Results of a large cohort study showed that cardiovascular diseases 
are remarkably prevalent in COPD patients. Patients with COPD had 
high prevalence of coronary artery disease (33.6%), congestive heart 
failure (24.4%), and atrial fibrillation (14.3%), which were 
statistically significantly higher than those among the matched non-
COPD cohort (27.1%, 13.5%, and 10.4%, respectively; p < 0.001). 
There have been post marketing reports of major cardiovascular 
events such as myocardial infarction, atrial fibrillation cardiac failure, 
and cardiac failure congestive. 
Anticipated patient groups at risk of major cardiovascular events 
include the more elderly and those with a history of cardiac disease, 
hypertension, dyslipidaemia, hyperglycaemia or diabetes mellitus. No 
specific groups and risks were identified with regard to roflumilast. In 
particular, CVD and COPD share similar risk factors such as ageing, 
history of cigarette smoking, and both diseases frequently coexist. 
Risk minimisation measures 
SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.8. 
PL section 2. 
SmPC section 4.4 does not recommend roflumilast in patients with 
congestive heart failure (NYHA grades 3 and 4) 
PL section 2 recommends not to take roflumilast in patients with 
severe impairment of the heart function 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
AE follow-up questionnaire 
Post-Authorisation Safety Study D7120R00003 
Table I-8 
Missing information: Long-term treatment 
Risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.2 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Roflumilast has been studied in clinical trials for up to one year. 
Post-Authorisation Safety Study D7120R00003 
I.2.3 
Post-authorisation development plan 
I.2.3.1 
The following study is condition of the marketing authorisation. 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
 
 
 
Study  short  name:  Long-term  post-marketing  observational  study  of  roflumilast 
D7120R00003 (RO-2455-403-RD); Category 1. 
Purpose of the study: To investigate 5-year mortality and morbidity of roflumilast in the COPD 
patient  population.  The  secondary  objective  of  the  study  was  to  evaluate  potential  risks 
identified  during  the  clinical  trials  of  roflumilast  as  secondary  outcomes.  Specifically,  this 
study  aimed  to  compare  the  incidences  of  death  by  suicide  or  hospitalisation  for  suicide 
attempt, hospitalisation for any cause, major cardiovascular events, respiratory disease related 
hospitalisation, new diagnosis of depression, new diagnosis of malignant neoplasm, abnormal 
and unexplained weight loss, hospitalisation due to serious diarrhoea of non-infectious origin, 
and new diagnosis of tuberculosis or hepatitis B or C or other severe viral hepatitis infection 
(except hepatitis A). 
I.2.3.2 
There are no studies required for DAXAS. 
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
 
