Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for  
Deferiprone Lipomed 500 mg film-coated tablets 
(Deferiprone) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Deferiprone Lipomed 500 mg film-coated tablets. 
The RMP details important risks of the product and how these risks can be minimised. 
The summary of product characteristics (SmPC) for Deferiprone Lipomed 500 mg film-coated tablets and 
its  package  leaflet  (PL)  give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  the 
product should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Deferiprone Lipomed 500 mg film-coated tablets should be read in the context 
of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of the product's RMP. 
I.     
The medicine and what it is used for 
Deferiprone Lipomed 500 mg film-coated tablets is used to treat iron overload in patients with thalassaemia 
major when current chelation therapy is contraindicated or inadequate (see SmPC for the full indication). It 
contains deferiprone as the active substance and it is given as 500 mg film-coated tablets. 
Further information about the evaluation of the benefits of Deferiprone Lipomed 500 mg film-coated tablets 
can  be  found  in  the  product’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage 
(https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/deferiprone-lipomed).  
II.    
characterise the risks  
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
Important risks of Deferiprone Lipomed 500 mg film-coated tablets, together with measures to minimise 
such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about the product's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the  package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The  authorised  pack  size  −  the  amount  of  medicine  in  a  pack  is  chosen  so  to  ensure  that  the 
medicine is used correctly; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The medicine’s legal status − the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or without 
prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  the  case  of  Deferiprone  Lipomed  500  mg  film-coated  tablets,  these  measures  are  supplemented  with 
additional risk minimisation measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and regularly 
analysed,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A  List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Deferiprone  Lipomed  500  mg  film-coated  tablets  are  risks  that  need  special  risk 
management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there 
is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Deferiprone Lipomed 500 mg film-coated tablets. Potential risks 
are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. 
on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
•  Agranulocytosis 
•  Neutropenia 
•  Use in pregnancy 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
•  None 
•  None 
II.B  Summary of important risks 
Agranulocytosis 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  Routine risk communication in SmPC sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8 / 
PL sections 2 and 4 
•  Recommendation for specific clinical measures in 
SmPC section 4.4 regarding monitoring of patient’s neutrophil 
count and management of patients who experience agranulocytosis 
•  Prescription only 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  Wallet-sized patient card provided in the folding box 
 
 
 
 
Neutropenia 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  Routine risk communication in SmPC sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8 / 
PL sections 2 and 4 
•  Recommendation for specific clinical measures in 
SmPC section 4.4 regarding monitoring of patient’s neutrophil 
count and management of patients who experience neutropenia  
•  Prescription only 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  Wallet-sized patient card provided in the folding box 
Use in pregnancy 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  Routine risk communication in SmPC section 4.3, 4.6, 5.3 / PL 
section 2;  
•  Prescription only 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  Wallet-sized patient card provided in the folding box 
II.C  Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
Deferiprone Lipomed 500 mg film-coated tablets. 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Deferiprone Lipomed 500 mg film-coated tablets. 
 
 
 
 
