EMA/626874/2019 
EMEA/H/C/005156 
Deferasirox Accord (deferasirox) 
An overview of Deferasirox Accord and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Deferasirox Accord and what is it used for? 
Deferasirox Accord is a medicine used to treat chronic iron overload (an excess of iron in the body) in: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
patients from 6 years of age who have beta thalassaemia major (an inherited blood disorder in 
which patients do not have enough normal haemoglobin [protein that carries oxygen around the 
body] in the blood) and who receive frequent blood transfusions; 
children aged 2 to 5 years with beta thalassaemia major who receive frequent blood transfusions, 
when deferoxamine (another medicine used to treat iron overload) cannot be used or is 
inadequate; 
patients from 2 years of age with beta thalassaemia major who receive infrequent blood 
transfusions, when deferoxamine cannot be used or is inadequate; 
patients from 2 years of age who suffer from other types of anaemia (low levels of haemoglobin in 
the blood) and who receive blood transfusions, when deferoxamine cannot be used or is 
inadequate; 
patients from 10 years of age with non-transfusion-dependent thalassaemia syndromes, when 
deferoxamine cannot be used or is inadequate. Non-transfusion-dependent thalassaemia 
syndromes are blood disorders similar to beta thalassaemia major but which do not require blood 
transfusions. In these patients, iron overload is caused by excess absorption of iron from the gut. 
Deferasirox Accord contains the active substance deferasirox and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means 
that Deferasirox Accord contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Exjade. For more information on generic medicines, see 
the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Deferasirox Accord used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised 
by a doctor who is experienced in the treatment of chronic iron overload. 
Deferasirox Accord is available as film-coated tablets (90 mg, 180 mg and 360 mg), to be taken once a 
day at around the same time. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The starting dose of Deferasirox Accord depends on the patient’s body weight, what the medicine is 
used for, and the level of iron overload. The dose is then adjusted as needed, every 3 to 6 months, 
according to the iron levels in the blood. 
For more information about using Deferasirox Accord, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Deferasirox Accord work? 
When the body cannot remove iron effectively, the excess iron can cause damage. The active 
substance in Deferasirox Accord, deferasirox, is an ‘iron chelator’. It attaches to excess iron in the 
body to form a compound called a ‘chelate’ that can be removed by the body, mainly in the stool. This 
helps to correct the iron overload and prevents damage to organs such as the heart or liver from 
excess iron. 
How has Deferasirox Accord been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Exjade, and do not need to be repeated for Deferasirox 
Accord.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Deferasirox Accord. The 
company also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two 
medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body 
and are therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Deferasirox Accord? 
Because Deferasirox Accord is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Deferasirox Accord authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Deferasirox 
Accord has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Exjade. Therefore, the 
Agency’s view was that, as for Exjade, the benefits of Deferasirox Accord outweigh the identified risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Deferasirox Accord? 
The company that markets Deferasirox Accord must issue an education pack to healthcare 
professionals. This pack aims to inform them about the treatment recommendations with Deferasirox 
Accord, including choosing the right dose and the need to monitor the patient’s health, especially 
kidney function. The company will also prepare a similar pack for patients. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Deferasirox Accord have also been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Deferasirox Accord are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Deferasirox Accord are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Deferasirox Accord (deferasirox)  
EMA/626874/20199  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Deferasirox Accord 
Deferasirox Accord received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 09 January 2020. 
Further information on Deferasirox Accord can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/deferasirox-accord. Information on the reference medicine can 
also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 12-2020. 
Deferasirox Accord (deferasirox)  
EMA/626874/20199  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
