EMA/553501/2018 
EMEA/H/C/004710 
Deferiprone Lipomed (deferiprone) 
An overview of Deferiprone Lipomed and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Deferiprone Lipomed and what is it used for? 
Deferiprone Lipomed is an ‘iron chelator’ (a substance that attaches to iron) that is used to treat iron 
overload (an excess of iron in the body) in patients with thalassaemia major. This is an inherited 
disease in which patients are unable to make enough haemoglobin, the protein found in red blood cells 
that carries oxygen around the body.  
Deferiprone Lipomed is used: 
• 
• 
on its own, when standard iron chelator treatment cannot be used or is inadequate; 
in combination with another iron chelator, when treatment with one iron chelator on its own is 
ineffective or when prevention or treatment of life-threatening conditions requires rapid or 
intensive correction of iron levels.  
Deferiprone Lipomed contains the active substance deferiprone and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means 
that Deferiprone Lipomed contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Ferriprox. For more information on generic 
medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Deferiprone Lipomed used? 
Deferiprone Lipomed can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and 
maintained by a doctor who has experience in the treatment of patients with thalassaemia. 
Deferiprone Lipomed is available as 500 mg tablets to be taken by mouth. The usual dose of 
Deferiprone Lipomed is 75 mg per kilogram body weight each day, divided into three separate doses. 
Doses above 100 mg/kg a day are not recommended because of a potentially increased risk of side 
effects. The doctor may adjust the dose of Deferiprone Lipomed depending on the patient’s response, 
which should be measured every two to three months with blood tests. The doctor may interrupt 
treatment if iron levels in the body get too low.  
For more information about using Deferiprone Lipomed, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Deferiprone Lipomed work? 
Patients with thalassaemia major need frequent blood transfusions. When patients receive repeated 
transfusions, the transfused red cells bring iron into the body. However, the body does not have a 
natural way of removing excess iron, so it builds up. Over time, the excess iron can damage important 
organs such as the heart or liver. The active substance in Deferiprone Lipomed, deferiprone, is an iron 
chelator. It attaches to iron in the body to form a compound that can be excreted by the body, mainly 
in the urine, and to a lesser extent in the stools. This helps to correct the iron overload and prevent 
damage due to excess iron. 
How has Deferiprone Lipomed been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Ferriprox, and do not need to be repeated for Deferiprone 
Lipomed.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Deferiprone Lipomed. The 
company also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two 
medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body 
and are therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Deferiprone Lipomed? 
Because Deferiprone Lipomed is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Deferiprone Lipomed authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Deferiprone 
Lipomed has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Ferriprox. Therefore, 
the Agency’s view was that, as for Ferriprox, the benefit of Deferiprone Lipomed outweighs the 
identified risk and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Deferiprone Lipomed? 
The company that markets Deferiprone Lipomed will ensure that patients taking the medicine, or their 
carers, are provided with a reminder card with information on how to take the medicine safely. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Deferiprone Lipomed have also been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Deferiprone Lipomed are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Deferiprone Lipomed are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Deferiprone Lipomed 
Deferiprone Lipomed received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 20 September 
2018. 
Deferiprone Lipomed (deferiprone)  
EMA/553501/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Further information on Deferiprone Lipomed can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. 
Information on the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 09-2018. 
Deferiprone Lipomed (deferiprone)  
EMA/553501/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
