24 June 2020 
EMA/64561/2020 
Deferasirox Mylan: Measures to avoid medication errors  
Doses may differ from other deferasirox products  
Educational material will be given to patients and healthcare professionals using Deferasirox Mylan 
(deferasirox) to alert them that there are different forms of medicines containing deferasirox on the 
market. Deferasirox Mylan, available as film-coated tablets, is used to remove excessive iron from the 
blood of patients with beta thalassaemia or other blood disorders that result in excessive iron in the 
blood. 
The educational material will advise that the different deferasirox formulations available in the EU 
require different dosing: a smaller dose of the film-coated tablets is needed than that of dispersible 
tablets. If the dose is not adjusted when changing from one type of tablet to another, the patient may 
receive too little or too much of the medicine.  
Information for patients 
•  Deferasirox Mylan film-coated tablets have been introduced.  
• 
In the EU, medicines containing deferasirox are available as film-coated tablets and dispersible 
tablets marketed under different names. Both are taken once a day, preferably at the same time 
each day. A smaller dose of the film-coated tablets is needed than of the dispersible tablets. 
•  Whereas the dispersible tablets have to be taken on an empty stomach 30 minutes before food, 
the film-coated tablets can be taken on an empty stomach or with a light meal. 
• 
Your doctor will have worked out the dose of Deferasirox Mylan you need. The dose depends on 
your weight, the amount of iron in your blood, how well your liver and kidneys work and the 
number of blood transfusions you receive. 
•  Read the package leaflet and other information you have been given with your tablets. It has 
important information about your treatment and how to take the medicine. If you have any 
questions about your treatment, contact your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.  
• 
You will be given a handbook about these tablets and how to take them. 
Information for healthcare professionals 
•  Deferasirox Mylan (deferasirox) film-coated tablets will be available in the EU in addition to film-
coated tablets and dispersible tablets already marketed under other names.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
•  Bioavailability of deferasirox from film-coated tablets is higher than from dispersible tablets and 
the strength of film-coated tablets is correspondingly lower. Film-coated tablets containing 90, 180 
and 360 mg are equivalent to dispersible tablets containing 125, 250 and 500 mg, respectively. 
• 
• 
• 
The summary of product characteristics and the guide for healthcare professionals on Deferasirox 
Mylan contains important information on its use. 
Patients prescribed Deferasirox Mylan should be issued with a handbook about the tablets and how 
to take them. 
The following table describes the differences between the two formulations: 
Film-coated tablets 
Dispersible tablets 
Strength 
90 mg, 180 mg and 360 mg  
125 mg, 250 mg and 500 mg  
When to take tablets 
Once daily, may be taken on an 
Once daily, must be taken on an 
empty stomach or with a light 
empty stomach, at least 30 
meal 
minutes before food 
How to take tablets 
Swallowed whole with some 
Dispersed in water, orange juice 
water or crushed and sprinkled 
or apple juice. Not to be chewed 
on soft food (e.g. yogurt or 
or swallowed whole 
apple sauce) 
Dose range (adults and children)  7–28 mg/kg daily, rounded to 
10–40 mg/kg daily, rounded to 
the nearest whole tablet size 
the nearest whole tablet size 
More about the medicine 
Deferasirox Mylan is a medicine used to treat chronic iron overload (an excess of iron in the body) in 
patients with beta thalassaemia or other blood disorders in which patients do not have enough normal 
haemoglobin in the blood. These patients develop have high levels of iron in the blood because of 
blood transfusions or, sometimes, excess iron absorption from the gut. 
Deferasirox Mylan contains the active substance deferasirox which is an ‘iron chelator’. This means that 
it attaches to iron in the body to form a ‘chelate’ that can be excreted by the body, mainly in the stool. 
This helps to correct iron overload and prevent the extra iron from damaging organs such as the heart 
and liver. 
More information on Deferasirox Mylan, including its indications in full, can be found on the Agency’s 
website: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/deferasirox-mylan  
Deferasirox Mylan: Measures to avoid medication errors  
EMA/64561/2020  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
