Summary  of  risk  management  plan  for  Deferasirox  Accord 
90/180/360 mg film-coated tablets (deferasirox) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Deferasirox Accord 90/180/360 mg 
film-coated  tablets. The  RMP  details  important  risks  of  Deferasirox  Accord  90/180/360  mg 
film-coated  tablets,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be 
obtained about Deferasirox Accord 90/180/360 mg film-coated tablet’s risks and uncertainties 
(missing information). 
Deferasirox Accord 90/180/360 mg film-coated tablet’s product information and its package 
leaflet  give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how 
Deferasirox Accord 90/180/360 mg film-coated tablets should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Deferasirox Accord 90/180/360 mg film-coated tablets should 
be read in the context of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation 
and its plain-language summary, all which is part of European Public Assessment Report for 
Deferasirox. 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
Deferasirox Accord 90/180/360 mg film-coated tablet’s RMP. 
I. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Deferasirox Accord is indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to frequent blood 
transfusions  (≥7  ml/kg/month  of  packed  red  blood  cells)  in  patients  with  beta  thalassaemia 
major aged 6 years and older. 
Deferasirox Accord is also indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood 
transfusions  when  deferoxamine  therapy  is  contraindicated  or  inadequate  in  the  following 
patient groups: 
- 
In paediatric patients with beta thalassaemia major with iron overload due to frequent blood 
transfusions (≥7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells) aged 2 to 5 years, 
- 
In  adult  and  paediatric  patients  with  beta  thalassaemia  major  with  iron  overload  due  to 
infrequent blood transfusions (<7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells) aged 2 years and 
older, 
- 
In adult and paediatric patients with other anaemias aged 2 years and older. 
 
Deferasirox  Accord  is  also  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  chronic  iron  overload  requiring 
chelation therapy when deferoxamine therapy is contraindicated or inadequate in patients with 
non-transfusion-dependent thalassaemia syndromes aged 10 years and older. 
It contains deferasirox as the active substance and it is given by oral route. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Deferasirox  Accord  90/180/360  mg  film-coated 
tablets’  benefits  can  be  found  in  Deferasirox  Accord  90/180/360  mg  film-coated  tablets’ 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s  webpage:  https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/deferasirox-
accord  
II.  Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to  minimise  or 
further characterise the risks 
Important  risks  of  Deferasirox  Accord  90/180/360  mg  film-coated  tablets,  together  with 
measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about Deferasirox 
Accord 90/180/360 mg film-coated tablet’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package  leaflet  and  Product  Information  (PI)  addressed  to  patients  and  healthcare 
professionals. 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging. 
•  The authorised pack size -the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly. 
•  The  medicine’s  legal  status-  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (e.g.  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  the  case  of  Deferasirox  Accord  90/180/360  mg  film-coated  tablets,  these  measures  are 
supplemented with additional risk minimisation measures mentioned under relevant important 
risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment and signal management activity, so that 
immediate  action  can  be 
taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Deferasirox Accord 90/180/360 mg 
film-coated tablets is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Deferasirox Accord 90/180/360 mg film-coated tablets are risks that need 
special  risk  management  activities  to  further  investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the 
medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or 
potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use 
of  Deferasirox  Accord  90/180/360  mg  film-coated  tablets.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
Important identified risks 
•  Renal  disorders  (increased  serum  creatinine,  acute 
renal failure (ARF), renal tubular disorders [acquired 
Fanconi’s syndrome]) 
• 
Increased liver transaminases / Hepatic failure 
•  Gastrointestinal hemorrhage and ulcers; esophagitis 
•  Hearing loss 
•  Lens opacities, retinal changes and optic neuritis 
Important potential risks 
•  Compliance with posology and biological monitoring 
•  Medication  errors  due 
to 
switching  between 
Deferasirox  film  coated  tablets/granules  and  generic 
versions of deferasirox dispersible tablets 
Missing information 
•  Long term safety in paediatric NTDT patients aged 10 
to 17 years 
 
II.B  Summary of important risks with additional risk minimization measures 
The  safety  information  in  the  proposed  Product  Information  is  aligned  to  the  reference 
medicinal product. 
Important Identified Risks: Renal disorders (increased serum creatinine, acute renal 
failure (ARF), renal tubular disorders [acquired Fanconi’s syndrome]) 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.8, 4.9, 5.2 and 5.3  
•  PIL section 2 and 4 
•  Contraindication  use  in  patients  with  estimated 
creatinine clearance <60 ml/min are included in 
SmPC section 4.3 
•  Recommendation to monitoring renal function 
test and deferasirox dose adjustment are 
included in SmPC section 4.4 and PIL section 2. 
•  Prescription only status of the product 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None 
Important Identified Risks: Increased liver transaminases / Hepatic failure 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8  
•  PIL sections 2, 3 and 4 
•  Recommendation to monitoring of liver function 
test  are  included  in  SmPC  section  4.4  and  PIL 
section 2. 
•  Recommendation  on  not  to  use  deferasirox  in 
patients  with  severe  hepatic  impairment  are 
included in SmPC section 4.4. 
•  Prescription only status of the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
 
 
•  None 
Important Identified Risks: Gastrointestinal hemorrhage and ulcers; esophagitis 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC sections 4.4, 4.5 and 4.8  
•  Advise  to  monitor  signs  and  symptoms  of 
gastrointestinal  ulceration  and  haemorrhage 
during deferasirox therapy are included in SmPC 
section 4.4 
• 
Information  on  close  clinical  monitoring  when 
deferasirox 
is 
concomitantly 
used  with 
substances 
that  have  known  ulcerogenic 
potentials,  such  as  NSAIDs,  corticosteroids  or 
oral  bisphosphonates  are  include  in  SmPC 
section 4.4 and 4.5 
•  Prescription only status of the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None 
Important Identified Risks: Hearing loss 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.8  
•  PIL sections 2 and 4 
• 
Information  to  perform  auditory  (decreased 
hearing) testing at regular period of intervals as 
described in SmPC section 4.4 
•  Advise to dose reduction or stop the treatment if 
disturbances are observed during the deferasirox 
treatment, included in section 4.4  
•  Prescription only status of the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
 
 
•  None 
Important Identified Risks: Lens opacities, retinal changes and optic neuritis 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.3  
• 
Information 
to  perform  ophthalmic 
testing 
(including  fundoscopy)  at  regular  period  of 
intervals is included in SmPC section 4.4  
•  Advise to dose reduction or stop the treatment if 
disturbances are observed during the deferasirox 
treatment included in section 4.4  
•  Prescription only status of the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  None 
Important Potential Risk: Compliance with posology and biological monitoring 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC sections 4.2 and 4.4  
•  Deferasirox  dose  and  dose  adjustment  for 
transfusional iron overload and non-transfusion-
dependent thalassaemia syndromes are included 
in SmPC section 4.2 
•  Biological  laboratory  test  monitoring  for  serum 
creatinine,  serum 
transaminases  and  serum 
ferritin are include in SmPC section 4.4 
•  Prescription only status of the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Educational  materials  for  physicians  (which  also 
includes a prescriber checklist) and patients 
 
 
Important Potential Risk: •  Medication  errors  due  to  switching  between  Deferasirox 
film coated tablets/granules and generic versions of deferasirox dispersible tablets 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC Section 4.2 
•  PIL Section 3 
•  Dose information  of  switching  from  dispersible 
tablets to film-coated tablets is included in SmPC 
Section 4.2. 
•  Prescription only status of the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Educational  materials  for  physicians  (which  also 
includes a prescriber checklist) and patients 
Missing information: Long term safety in paediatric NTDT patients aged 10 to 17 years 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC sections 4.2 and 4.4 
• 
Information  on  deferasirox  dosing  in  paediatric 
patients 
with 
non-transfusion-dependent 
thalassaemia  syndromes  is  included  in  SmPC 
section 4.2 and 4.4 
•  Advise  to  monitor  laboratory  test  of  (liver  iron 
concentration and serum ferritin as per frequency 
included in SmPC section 4.2 and 4.4. 
•  Prescription only status of the product.  
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
 
 
 
II.C  Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Deferasirox Accord 90/180/360 mg film-coated tablets. 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Deferasirox Accord 90/180/360 mg film-coated tablets. 
