14 November 2019 
EMA/659255/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Deferasirox Accord  
International non-proprietary name: deferasirox 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/005156/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 6 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 7 
2.2.1. Introduction...................................................................................................... 7 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................... 8 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ............................................................................... 10 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ........................................... 13 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 13 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 13 
2.3.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 13 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 14 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects ..................................................................... 14 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 14 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 14 
2.4.1. Introduction.................................................................................................... 14 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 17 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 22 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ............................................................................... 22 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 22 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 23 
2.5. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 23 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 25 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 26 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 26 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 26 
4. Recommendation .................................................................................. 27 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 2/30 
  
  
 
List of abbreviations 
AE 
ANOVA 
AUC 
AUC0-t 
AUC0-∞ 
adverse event 
analysis of variance 
the area under the plasma concentration 
the area under the plasma concentration - time curve from time 0 to t hours 
the area under the plasma concentration - time curve from time 0 to infinity 
AUC_%Extrap_obs 
residual area in percentage 
BE  
BMI 
CHMP 
CI 
Cmax 
CV% 
ECG 
EC 
ERA 
GCP 
GLP 
GMP 
HCl 
LPI 
bioequivalence 
body mass index 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
confidence interval 
maximum plasma concentration 
the coefficient of variation 
electrocardiogram 
European Committee 
environmental risk assessment 
good clinical practice 
good laboratory practice 
good manufacturing practice 
hydrochloric acid 
labile plasma iron 
LC/MS/MS 
liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry 
LoOI 
MO 
NTDT 
OTC 
PK 
PL 
QC  
Rpm 
RSD  
SD  
SmPC 
Tmax 
t1/2 
TF 
λ z 
list of outstanding issues 
major objection 
non-transfusion-dependent thalassaemia 
over the counter 
pharmacokinetic 
package leaflet 
quality control  
rotation per minute 
relative standard deviation 
standard deviation 
summary of product characteristics 
time of the maximum measured plasma concentration 
the elimination or terminal half-life  
transferrin 
first order rate constant associated with the terminal portion of the curve 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 3/30 
  
  
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Accord Healthcare S.L.U. submitted on 3 November 2018 an application for marketing 
authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Deferasirox Accord, through the centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. 
The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 20 September 2018. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, for which a 
marketing authorisation is or has been granted in the Union the basis of a complete dossier in accordance 
with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Deferasirox Accord is indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to frequent blood transfusions 
(≥7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells) in patients with beta thalassaemia major aged 6 years and older. 
Deferasirox Accord is also indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions when 
deferoxamine therapy is contraindicated or inadequate in the following patient groups: 
- 
in paediatric patients with beta thalassaemia major with iron overload due to frequent blood 
transfusions (≥7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells) aged 2 to 5 years, 
- 
in adult and paediatric patients with beta thalassaemia major with iron overload due to infrequent 
blood transfusions (<7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells) aged 2 years and older, 
- 
in adult and paediatric patients with other anaemias aged 2 years and older. 
Deferasirox Accord is also indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload requiring chelation therapy 
when deferoxamine therapy is contraindicated or inadequate in patients with non-transfusion-dependent 
thalassaemia syndromes aged 10 years and older. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Exjade instead of non-clinical and clinical unless 
justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not less 
than 6/8/10 years in the EEA:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Exjade; 90 mg, 180 mg, 360 mg; film-coated tablets 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Novartis Europharm Limited, Vista Building Elm Park, Merrion Road, 
Dublin 4, Ireland 
•  Date of authorisation: 28-08-2006 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 4/30 
  
  
•  Union  
•  Marketing authorisation numbers:  
90 mg: EU/1/06/356/011-013 
180 mg: EU/1/06/356/014-016 
360 mg: EU/1/06/356/017-019 
Medicinal product authorised in the Union /Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Exjade; 90 mg, 180 mg, 360 mg; film-coated tablets 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Novartis Europharm Limited, Vista Building Elm Park, Merrion Road, 
Dublin 4, Ireland 
•  Date of authorisation: 28-08-2006 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
•  Union  
•  Marketing authorisation numbers:  
90 mg: EU/1/06/356/011-013 
180 mg: EU/1/06/356/014-016 
360 mg: EU/1/06/356/017-019 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force and to which 
bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Exjade, 360 mg, film-coated tablet 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Novartis Europharm Limited, Vista Building Elm Park, Merrion Road, 
Dublin 4, Ireland 
•  Date of authorisation: 28-08-2006   
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
•  Union 
•  Marketing authorisation numbers: EU/1/06/356/017-019 
•  Bioavailability study number: 0382-17 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 5/30 
  
  
 
 
 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised orphan 
medicinal products. 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek Scientific advice at the CHMP. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur:  Milena Stain 
Co-Rapporteur: N/A 
The application was received by the EMA on 
The procedure started on 
3 November 2018 
29 November 2018 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
18 February 2019 
members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
04 March 2019 
PRAC members on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to 
28 March 2019 
the applicant during the meeting on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
19 July 2019 
Questions on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
29 August 2019 
applicant's responses to the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to 
09 September 2019 
CHMP during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues > to be sent to the 
19 September 2019 
applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
14 October 2019 
Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the 
30 October 2019 
responses to the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on  
The outstanding issues were addressed by the applicant during an oral 
N/A 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 6/30 
  
  
 
 
explanation before the CHMP during the meeting on 
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting 
a marketing authorisation to Deferasirox Accord on  
14 November 2019 
The CHMP adopted a report on similarity of Deferasirox Accord with 
14 November 2019 
Revlimid and Zynteglo on (see Appendix 1) 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This centralised application for marketing authorisation concerns a generic application according to article 
10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC for Deferasirox Accord 90 mg, 180 mg and 360 mg film-coated tablets. The 
originator product is Exjade 90 mg, 180 mg and 360 mg film-coated tablets (MAA No: EU/1/06/356/011-019, 
Novartis Europharm Limited) for which marketing authorisation was granted in the European Union on 28 
August 2006 on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
To support the application, the applicant submitted one BE study No. 0382-17 of Deferasirox 360 mg film-
coated tablets with Exjade 360 mg film-coated tablets. A biowaiver is requested for additional lower strengths 
(90 mg and 180 mg) based on claims that pharmacokinetics is linear over dose range, used manufacturing 
process is the same, the same qualitative composition of different strengths, quantitatively proportional 
composition of the strengths, and appropriateness of submitted in vitro dissolution data. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as film-coated tablets containing 90 mg, 180 mg or 360 mg of deferasirox 
as active substance. 
Other ingredients of the tablet core are: cellulose, microcrystalline; croscarmellose sodium, low-substituted 
hydroxypropyl cellulose, povidone (K30), poloxamer 188, lactose monohydrate, silica colloidal anhydrous, 
sodium stearyl fumarate, hydrogenated castor oil. Other ingredients in the film coating are: hypromellose 
(E464), propylene glycol (E1520), talc (E553b), iron oxide yellow (E172) and titanium dioxide (E171). 
The finished product is available in PVC/PE/PVdC-Aluminium blisters as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC. 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 7/30 
  
  
 
 
 
 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
General Information 
The chemical name of deferasirox is 4-[3,5-Bis(2-hydroxyphenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl]benzoic acid 
corresponding to the molecular formula C21H15N3O4. It has a relative molecular mass of 373.36 g/mol and 
the following structure: 
Figure 1: active substance structure 
The chemical structure of deferasirox was elucidated by a combination of various analytical and spectral 
techniques likewise CHN analysis, DSC analysis, Ultraviolet, Infra-Red, 1H NMR, 13C NMR, and Mass 
spectroscopy analysis studies.  
Deferasirox appears as a white to slightly yellow coloured non hygroscopic crystalline powder. 
Deferasirox has very poor solubility in the majority of solvents.  
Deferasirox’ structure does not contain chiral or asymmetric carbon atoms. It exists in various polymorphic 
forms. The polymorph produced is prior art form-A. This has been confirmed by the powder XRD analytical 
technique. The data provided confirms that the manufacturing process of Deferasirox Accord consistently 
produces prior art form-A. 
Manufacture, process controls and characterisation 
For deferasirox an Active Substance Master File (ASMF) has been provided by the active substance 
manufacturer. 
The manufacturing site, including the micronization process, is listed as the manufacturer of the final active 
substance deferasirox. The analytical laboratory is placed at the same address as the manufacturing site.  
The manufacturing process and the chemical reaction, a two-step synthesis, has been sufficiently described. 
The synthesis of deferasirox active substance involves two stages. 
Reprocessing has been adequately described. The flow chart and a narrative description of the manufacturing 
process have also been provided. The critical steps have been defined and appropriate in-process controls 
have been established. Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided 
in the restricted part of the ASMF and it was considered satisfactory. The starting materials are well 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 8/30 
  
  
 
 
 
described, and sufficient data has been provided. The specifications for the reagents and solvents used in the 
process are considered suitable. 
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities have been confirmed by aid of various 
analytical and spectral techniques including UV, IR, IH NMR and 13C NMR. Sufficient data has been presented. 
The methods used for elucidation of structure are adequate. All residual solvents have been sufficiently 
discussed (including absence of benzene) and specified. 
Specification, analytical procedures, reference standards, batch analysis, and 
container closure 
The specifications include tests and limits for appearance, solubility (Ph. Eur.) identity (IR, HPLC), assay 
(HPLC), related substances (HPLC), residual solvents (GC) and identification of polymorph (PXRD). 
The specification for deferasirox has been established in line with ICH Q3A, Q3C, Q6A and the requirements 
of the general monograph Ph. Eur. 2034.  
All relevant parameters have been included in the specification with acceptable limits (description, solubility, 
identification, water content, residue on ignition, related substances, residual solvents and polymorphism). 
The active substance is for use in an oral film-coated tablet. It has been sufficiently justified that 
microbiological quality testing is not necessary. All tests and limits are appropriate to guarantee a sufficient 
quality of the active ingredient.  
According to SmPC the maximum daily dose (MDD) for deferasirox is up to 2.8 grams which corresponds to 
the following levels for reporting (RT): 0.03%, identification (IT) and qualification (QT): 0.05%. No impurity 
above the qualification threshold according to ICH Q3A has been observed. The limit for “highest individual 
unspecified impurity” is in-line with the identification limit. The limits are in line with the batch data and the 
stability results. Impurities have been evaluated and found to be acceptable from the point of view of safety. 
The overall control of related substances and potential impurities (including genotoxic impurities) is 
considered acceptable. Although the process contains no added elements, class 1 and class 2A elements have 
been tested (in line with the requirements of oral dosage forms according to ICH Q3D) and the level in three 
batches was less than 30% of the PDE for each element. Therefore, it is acceptable that no element is 
specified in the final API. A satisfactory elemental impurities risk assessment was conducted following the 
principles outlined in ICH Q3D. 
Analytical procedures and reference standards 
Several methods are adopted from official compendia (Ph. Eur.). For the assay an isocratic HPLC is used, with 
UV detection. For the related substances a gradient HPLC is used, with UV detection. For the residual solvents 
three different HS-GCs (equipped with FID) are used. Polymorphic identification is done by PXRD. In general, 
validation is done in accordance to ICH Q2. All methods have been suitably described and (non-compendial 
methods) appropriately validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines.  
Reference standards (primary and working standard of API) and impurity standards have been well 
described. 
Batch analysis  
Three batches from the proposed manufacturing site have been analysed according to the specification. 
Moreover, one micronized batch and one reprocessed batch have been analysed. All results are well within 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 9/30 
  
  
the specification. The results comply with the proposed specification and indicate that a consistent quality of 
the active substance can be obtained based on the proposed manufacturing process. 
Container closure 
Specifications and test procedures of the packaging materials, including IR spectra of the primary bag have 
been provided. Compliance of the primary packaging material with Ph. Eur. Monograph 3.1.3 and food grade 
has been stated. The information presented on the packaging materials is sufficient and adequate. 
Stability 
Stability data from several batches, commercial scale batches of active substance from the proposed 
manufacturer stored in a container closure system representative of that intended for the market for up to 60 
months under long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions 
(40 ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided.  
The following parameters were tested: description, identification, impurities, assay. The analytical methods 
used were the same as for release and were stability indicating. 
Stability studies have been conducted in accordance with the ICH guidelines. All results comply with the 
requirements. Long-term and accelerated stability study data indicate that all physical and chemical 
parameters were well within limits during different storage conditions without showing any sign of 
degradation. The active substance is photostable.  
Based on the stability data presented and given that all tested parameters were within the specifications, the 
proposed re-test period can be accepted. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical Development  
The finished product (Deferasirox Accord 90 mg, 180 mg and 360 mg film-coated tablets) is developed as 
yellow coloured, film coated oval, biconvex tablets with bevelled edges debossed with ‘D’ on one side and 
‘90’, ‘180’ or ‘360’ on the other side, corresponding to 90 mg, 180 mg or 360 mg deferasirox per tablet. 
The description and composition of the finished product have been satisfactorily described. The qualitative 
and quantitative composition of the excipients is different to the reference product. Nevertheless, dissolution 
and impurity levels are similar to the reference product.  
The different strengths come from the same blend, are dose-proportional and can be differentiated based 
upon their mass and their markings.  
Excipients are of Ph. Eur. quality and/or conform to the relevant guidance. The excipients have been 
sufficiently described, relevant functionality-related characteristics (FRC-s) are specified. 
Pharmaceutical development 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 10/30 
  
  
 
 
 
Formulation development was based on the reference product (Exjade) and the available literature. Due to 
the poor flowability of the micronized drug a wet granulation process was established. Key physico chemical 
properties of the active substance (such as polymorphism and solubility) and compatibility to excipients have 
been sufficiently discussed. 
The description of the manufacturing process development is sufficiently detailed. The choice of process 
variables has been adequately justified. 
The effect of the manufacturing process steps on the polymorphic stability of the active substance has been 
adequately investigated. 
A method for dissolution was established taking low solubility of Deferasirox (BCS class II) into consideration. 
The method has the discriminatory power to detect changes in the formulation. 
A batch of the highest tablet strength 360 mg of Deferasirox Accord was used for the bioequivalence study. 
The dissolution characteristics, assay and impurity profile of the biobatch was shown to be comparable to 
Exjade 360 mg film coated tablet. 
Comparative dissolution profiles data show, pH dependent dissolution and similar dissolution profiles of the 
test and reference products. Data on dissolution profiles show good dissolution and similar dissolution profiles 
across lower strengths. 
Crushing and administration by sprinkling the product onto soft food (as suggested in the SmPC), has been 
sufficiently discussed and tests on parameters, which might have an influence on crushing (e.g. hardness) 
suggest that there is no influence on crushing. Physical stability and compatibility data provided on mixtures 
of Deferasirox Accord and soft food/ vehicles i.e. apple sauce and yogurt has been sufficiently demonstrated. 
No overages were added during development as well as manufacturing of batches.  
Container closure system  
The container closure system (PVC/PE/PVDC-Aluminium Blister Pack) has been sufficiently described and is in 
conformance to Commission Regulation (EU) No. 10/2011 (including amendments). 
The choice of the primary packaging is adequate for this kind of product. The information provided on 
primary packaging (PVC/PE/PVdC – Alu Blister Pack), microbiological control and compatibility are sufficient. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The manufacturing process of the finished product can be considered as a standard process. The 
manufacturing process of deferasirox film-coated tablets comprises: sifting, dry mixing, preparation of binder 
solution, wet granulation, drying, milling and sifting of dried granules, pre-lubrication & lubrication, 
compression, coating and packaging as outlined in Figure 2. A detailed flow chart and a narrative description 
of the process have been provided.  
The critical steps of the manufacturing process are drying, lubrication, compression, coating and packing 
steps. In-process control (IPCs) of critical steps and acceptance criteria are described in sufficient detail. 
Limits are in line with the ranges proposed in pharmaceutical development. The proposed holding times were 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 11/30 
  
  
 
 
validated in a hold time study. The containers used for storage of the bulk product have been sufficiently 
described.  
Data on common blend has been presented, showing that after division of blend assay and blend uniformity 
results are within specifications, and a high yield in granulation stage was obtained. For process validation, 
data on three commercial batches have been presented, showing that a reproducible process was 
established, leading to a product that meets all limits as set in the specifications and a high yield. 
Product specification, analytical procedures, batch analysis 
The specification covers most of the relevant parameters for this kind of dosage form as described in the 
relevant guidance and includes appropriate tests for appearance (visual), identification (UV absorption and 
retention time), identification of colouring reagents, average mass (gravimetry), uniformity of dosage units 
(Ph. Eur. 2.9.40), water content (KF, Ph. Eur. 2.5.12), dissolution (HPLC), assay (HPLC), related substances 
(HPLC) and microbial quality (Ph. Eur. 2.6.12 and 2.6.13). 
Identification (UV), identification of colorants, uniformity of dosage units are performed only at release.  
The potential presence of elemental impurities in the finished product has been assessed on a risk-based 
approach in line with the ICH Q3D Guideline for Elemental Impurities. The information on the control of 
elemental impurities is satisfactory. 
Analytical procedures 
The methods proposed are adequate to control the finished product on a routine basis, i.e. for batch release. 
The analytical methods have been sufficiently described, suitably validated and the relevant analytical 
method validation protocols and reports have been provided. Satisfactory information regarding the reference 
standards has been presented. Detectability of impurities is shown by related substance HPLC and the 
method is validated for these impurities. Stress studies show that the method for is stability indicating.  
Batch analysis 
Certificates of Analysis (CoAs) of several batches per strength have been presented. The presented data are 
in line with the specifications, confirming the quality, consistency and uniformity of the product, and indicate 
that the process is under control. Impurities/degradation products have been evaluated and found to be 
acceptable from the point of view of safety. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data from several commercial scale batches of finished product stored for up to 24 months under 
long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 75% 
RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided. The batches of finished product are representative to 
those proposed for marketing and were packed in the primary packaging proposed for marketing. Batches of 
proposed commercial batch size have been used for the study in the commercial container closure system. 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 12/30 
  
  
 
 
 
An acceptable matrixing approach has been applied for stability analysis. At all relevant time-points the 
highest and lowest strength only are tested. The specification is based on the release-specification, using the 
same validated methods as for release. 
All tested parameters were within specification limits (at accelerated and long-term conditions). No obvious 
trends could be identified. Photostability was performed, showing that the product is not sensitive to light. 
Therefore, based on the stability data the claimed shelf-life of 24 months, without storage conditions is 
acceptable. 
A post-approval stability protocol and stability commitment has been provided by the applicant. 
Adventitious agents 
TSE/BSE certificates for the active pharmaceutical ingredient and excipients are enclosed in the dossier. No 
materials of animal origin/human origin are used except for lactose monohydrate. It is confirmed that the 
lactose is produced from milk from healthy animals in the same condition as those used to collect milk for 
human consumption and that the lactose has been prepared without the use of ruminant material other than 
calf rennet according to the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of Transmitting Animal Spongiform 
Encephalopathy Agents Via Human and veterinary medicinal products. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of 
important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should 
have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
Sufficiently detailed data and documents have been provided indicating that the product can be reproducibly 
manufactured and is adequately controlled. The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when 
used in accordance with the conditions defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant 
to the uniform clinical performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory 
way. In conclusion, the quality part of the dossier is sufficiently detailed and acceptable. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, which is 
based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no need to 
generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The non-clinical 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 13/30 
  
  
 
 
 
 
aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity profile has been 
discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
No Environmental Risk Assessment was originally submitted. This was justified by the Applicant as the 
introduction of Deferasirox Accord manufactured by drug substance manufacturer is considered unlikely to 
result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all deferasirox containing products and 
the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA was expected to be similar and not 
increased. 
To support the claim that there is no increase in the consumption, the applicant submitted the consumption 
data of the reference medicinal product that showed decrease in the consumption (see below). However, no 
data on generic medicinal products were submitted.  
The applicant also submitted experimentally-determined logkow: log Kow = log P = 3.52 (PubChem, 2019). 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment studies were submitted. This was justified by the Applicant as the 
introduction of Deferasirox Accord manufactured by drug substance manufacturer is considered unlikely to 
result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all deferasirox containing products and 
the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA was expected to be similar. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical sections of the SmPC are acceptable. The non-clinical overview on the pre-clinical 
pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology seems adequate. 
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The non-clinical sections of the SmPC are acceptable. The non-clinical overview on the pre-clinical 
pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology seems adequate. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for containing deferasirox. To support the marketing authorisation application the 
applicant conducted one bioequivalence study with cross-over design under fasting conditions. This study was 
the pivotal study for the assessment. 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 14/30 
  
  
 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Exemption  
A biowaiver is requested for the additional 90 mg and 180 mg strengths of Deferasirox Accord based on the 
conditions mentioned in the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence. All the conditions were met.  
The Applicant submitted a comparison of dissolution profiles of Deferasirox 360 mg vs. Deferasirox 180 mg 
and Deferasirox 90 mg in three different pHs without surfactant.  
Comparative dissolution testing of the three strengths of the test product was done using 75 rpm paddle 
apparatus in a volume of 900 ml in the following buffers: 0.1N HCl, pH 4.5 acetate buffer and pH 6.8 
phosphate buffer. Since deferasirox is a BCS class II compound that easily penetrates the relevant 
physiological barriers, and possesses poor solubility in the aqueous body fluids, the applicant investigated the 
dissolution also in presence of surfactant. 
- Comparing 360 mg strength of Deferasirox with 180 mg strength of Deferasirox, dissolution profiles were 
comparable in pH 4.5 and pH 6.8. The dissolution profiles were not comparable in 0.1 N HCl, therefore, 
applicant provided comparison of dissolution profiles of 1 tablet of Deferasirox 360 mg vs. 2 tablets of 
Deferasirox 180 mg in 0.1 N HCl with the presence of surfactant. Under these conditions, dissolution profiles 
were comparable.  
- Comparing 360 mg strength of Deferasirox with 90 mg strength of Deferasirox, dissolution profiles were 
comparable in pH 6.8. The dissolution profiles were not comparable in 0.1 N HCl and pH 4.5, therefore, 
applicant provided comparison of dissolution profiles of 1 tablet of Deferasirox 360 mg vs. 4 tablets of 
Deferasirox 90 mg in 0.1 N HCl and in pH 4.5 with the presence of surfactant. Under these conditions, 
dissolution profiles were comparable. 
Due to limited sink conditions, the Applicant provided also comparisons of dissolution profiles of Deferasirox 
180 mg vs. Exjade 180 mg and Deferasirox 90 mg vs. Exjade 90 mg in three different pHs without 
surfactant. In this case, dissolution profiles were comparable.  
As per the current BE guideline, where sink conditions may not be achievable for all strengths in vitro 
dissolution may differ between different strengths. However, the comparison with the respective strength of 
the reference medicinal product should then confirm that this finding is drug substance rather than 
formulation related. In addition, the applicant could show similar profiles at the same dose (e.g. as a 
possibility two tablets of 180 mg versus one tablet of 360 mg AND four tablets of 90 mg versus one tablet of 
360 mg could be compared). The applicant provided comparative dissolution profiles with the respective 
strengths of the reference medicinal product. The dissolution profiles at the same dose were provided by the 
applicant as well. 
The applicant used bootstrapping method to calculate f2 factor with the following justification: as f2 statistics 
cannot be applied due to incomplete drug release from both the formulations, bootstrapping technique was 
applied to show the similarity. However, incomplete drug release is not an obstacle in assessing similarity 
with the f2 calculations. Therefore, where RSDs were within the limits, f2 statistics should be used instead of 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 15/30 
  
  
bootstrapping method. As this was the case for both dissolution tests at pH 6.8, the applicant was asked to 
calculate f2 factor with f2 statistics here. 
Secondly, in the submitted dissolution profiles, not all prerequisites for calculating the similarity factor as 
stated in the BE guideline have been met. Several RSDs were not within the limits to enable the calculation of 
f2 factor. As per the current guideline, when the ƒ2 statistic is not suitable, similarity may be compared using 
alternative methods (e.g. bootstrapping). Therefore, the applicant used bootstrapping method for calculation 
of f2 factors where RSDs were not within the limits and calculated 90% confidence intervals of f2 factors by 
DDsolver using 5000 bootstraps. The applicant also calculated f2 factor with f2 statistics where use of 
bootstrapping was not appropriate. All of the calculated f2 factors were above 50. The dissolution profiles are 
therefore considered similar and the biowaiver for lower strengths is supported. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study. 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 16/30 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Table 1.  Tabular overview of clinical studies  
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Study No. 0382-17: An open label, balanced, randomised, two-treatment, two-period, two-sequence, single 
oral dose, two way crossover, bioequivalence study of Deferasirox tablets 360 mg of drug substance 
manufacturer with Exjade (deferasirox) film coated tablets 360 mg of Novartis Europharm Limited, United 
Kingdom in healthy adult, human subjects under fasting conditions. 
Methods 
Clinical, bioanalytical study site, as well as PK and statistical analysis was done at the Lambda Therapeutic 
Research Ltd. The study code was 0382-17. The Conscience-Independent Ethics Committee, Ahmedabad, 
India approved study protocol. 
A statement about conduction of the study in line with GCP is provided. 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 17/30 
  
  
 
Study design  
Study is designed as comparative, randomized, balanced, two-treatment, two-period, two-sequence, two-
way crossover open label bioequivalence study on healthy volunteers with a single dose administration under 
fasting conditions. In each study period, subjects received a single oral dose of 360 mg of a deferasirox tablet 
(test) or a reference with 240 ml of water after an overnight fast (10 hrs). Wash-out period was 8 days. 
Blood samples were collected at pre-dose (0.0) and at 0.50, 1.00, 1.333, 1.667, 2.000, 2.333, 2.667, 3.000, 
3.333, 3.667, 4.000, 4.500, 5.000, 5.500, 6.000, 7.000, 8.000, 10.000, 12.000, 16.000, 24.000, 36.000, 
48.000 and 72.000 hours post-dose. Deferasirox in human plasma was analysed by LC/MS/MS. 
Test and reference products  
Deferasirox Accord 360mg manufactured by Accord Healthcare S.L.U. has been compared to Exjade 360mg 
manufactured by Novartis. 
Population(s) studied 
The screening procedures to determine subjects' eligibility for participation in the study were to be performed 
within 28 days prior to the first dosing; they included medical- and drug history, demographic data including 
name, sex, age, weight (kg), height (cm), BMI, race, alcohol and tobacco consumption, complete physical 
examination and vital signs measurements, respiratory rate, blood pressure, pulse and body temperature, 
electrocardiogram 12 lead, haematology, biochemistry, serology and urinalysis. 37 subjects were checked-in. 
Enrolled subjects were free to withdraw at any time during the course of the study.  
The inclusion criteria were: Healthy male and female subjects, aged 18-45 years; BMI within 18.5-30 kg/m2 
(both inclusive); non-smoker, not pregnant, not having any significant diseases or clinically significant 
abnormal findings during screening, medical history, clinical examination, laboratory evaluations, 12-lead 
ECG and chest X-ray (postero-anterior view) recordings; having clinically acceptable laboratory value for liver 
function test and renal function test; no known allergy to the investigated product; able to understand and 
comply with the study procedures and having given their written informed consent were checked in for the 
study.  
The exclusion criteria complementing the inclusion criteria above were: Use of any prescribed medication 
during last four weeks (28 days) or OTC (over the counter) product during last two weeks (14 days) 
preceding the first dosing; recent history of harmful use of alcohol (less than 2 years) or consumption of 
alcohol or alcoholic products within 48 hours prior to receiving study medicine in Period-I; difficulty in 
swallowing solid dosage forms; an unusual diet, for whatever reason (e.g. low-sodium), for four weeks prior 
to receiving the study medicine in Period-I; consumption of grapefruit or grapefruit products within 72 hours 
prior to dosing in Period-I; nursing mothers (females); use of any recreational drugs or history of drug 
addiction or testing positive in pre-study drug scans; a history of difficulty in donating blood, donation of 
blood (1 unit or 350 mL) or receipt of an investigational medicinal product or participation in a drug research 
study within a period of 90 days prior to the first dose of study medication.  
All the subjects were instructed to abstain from any xanthine containing food or beverages (like tea, coffee, 
chocolates or cola drinks or any other), tobacco, tobacco containing products (like Gutkha, Pan / Pan Masala) 
for 24 hours prior to IMP administration in each period and throughout their stay in the clinical facility. 
A total of 36 Asian subjects were dosed and 34 completed the study. Data from these 34 subjects were used 
for pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis. Case report forms have been submitted. 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 18/30 
  
  
Analytical methods 
Bioanalytical report concerning LC/MS/MS method for the determination of deferasirox in human plasma 
(K2EDTA) was submitted. Analytical part of the study was conducted. Analysis was performed by Pravin 
Patel, M.Sc. Method used was validated, validation report (MV(I)-263-17) is included. GLP statement is 
enclosed.  
During the bioequivalence study, blood samples were collected into tubes containing K2EDTA as an 
anticoagulant and kept in ice cold water, then centrifuged at 3,000 rcf for 5 minutes. After centrifugation, the 
resulting plasma was transferred directly into two pre-labelled polypropylene tubes. These samples were 
stored at -65+/-10°C. The longest period of sample storage was 29 days, what is covered by the long-term 
stability data in biological matrix for 250 days.  
Total number of collected samples was 1,719. The total number of analysed analytical runs is 23 including 
one analytical run due to re-injection and two incurred samples batches. Total number of re-assayed samples 
was 33 due to the following reasons: significant variability of the internal standard response, concentration 
above the highest standard and poor chromatography as per SOP No. LTR.BA-03-03. 
Internal standard was deferasirox-D4, certificate of analysis is submitted. A set of 8 non-zero standards with 
calibration range (0.102 μg/mL to 25.045 μg/mL) and quality controls (0.104 μg/mL, 0.301 μg/mL, 2.279 
μg/mL, 9.909 μg/mL 19.899 μg/mL and 74.819 μg/mL) were prepared and stored at a nominal temperature 
of -65+/-10°C. 
The quality control sample data for deferasirox were assessed with between-run precision of 1.6 - 3.2% CV 
and accuracy of 93.8 – 104.4%.  
A total number of 140 incurred samples were re-analysed, corresponding to 8% of 1,719 study samples and 
88.6% of them met the acceptance criteria specified in the Guideline on bioanalytical method validation 
(EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/2009). 
Pharmacokinetic variables 
The pharmacokinetic calculations were performed with Phoenix® WinNonlin® Version 6.4 (Certara L.P.). 
Following pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated for deferasirox using standard non-compartmental 
methods: 
Primary:  
Cmax: maximum measured plasma concentration over the time span specified 
AUC0-t: the area under the plasma concentration versus time curve, from time (0) to the last measurable 
concentration (t), as calculated by the linear trapezoidal method. 
Secondary: 
AUC0-∞: the area under the plasma concentration versus time curve from time (0) to infinity. 
Tmax: time of the maximum measured plasma concentration. 
t1/2: the elimination or terminal half-life. 
λ z: first order rate constant associated with the terminal (loglinear) portion of the curve. 
AUC_%Extrap_obs: residual area in percentage. 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 19/30 
  
  
Statistical methods 
Statistical analysis was performed using PROC GLM of SAS® Version 9.3 (SAS Institute Inc., USA).  
The statistical evaluation of bioequivalence included following: analysis of variance (ANOVA) in all derived 
pharmacokinetic parameters, calculation of formulations ratios (point estimates) and parametric 90% 
confidence interval for ln-transformed AUC0-t and Cmax parameters. 
ANOVA: 5 % significance level for logarithmically transformed (with the 90% confidence intervals) and 
untransformed data of Cmax and AUC0-t. The influence of sequence, subject (sequence), formulation and 
period effect was tested. 
Descriptive statistics: all pharmacokinetic parameters: arithmetic mean, SD, CV%, median, min and max. 
90% Confidence intervals: logarithmically transformed Test/Reference ratios had to be within 80.00-125.00% 
for Cmax and AUC0-t. 
Handling of missing values is described in the comment to the population. No specific method for handling of 
outliers was reported. 
Results 
Table 5 The mean pharmacokinetic parameters of deferasirox after treatment with test product and 
reference product 
Table 6 90% confidence interval for ln-transformed AUC0-t and Cmax parameters 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 20/30 
  
  
 
 
Figure 1 Mean deferasirox plasma concentrations after single dose administration of one tablet of test 
product and one tablet of reference product to healthy subjects under fasting conditions 
Table 7 P-values obtained from deferasirox ANOVA results after single dose administration of test and 
reference product 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 21/30 
  
  
 
 
 
There were no pre-dose concentrations of deferasirox in the period II. Cmax was not observed in any case at 
the first time point after dosing. Extrapolated AUC less than 20% does not apply as AUC was followed until 72 
hrs time point. 
Safety data 
Three (03) adverse events (AEs) were reported by two (02) subjects during the conduct of the study. Two 
(02) AEs were reported in the Period-I in the subject No. 1027 (diarrhoea and abdominal pain, both resolved) 
and one (01) AE was reported during the post-study safety assessment in the subject No. 1028 (eosinophilia, 
the outcome unknown). All the AEs were reported in the subjects after administration of Reference Product-
R. All the AEs were mild in nature. 
Subject No. 1027 was followed up until resolution of his AEs and subject No. 1028 did not report for his AE 
follow-up and hence he was considered as lost to follow-up. 
The causality assessment was judged as possibly related for all the AEs. 
There were no deaths or serious AEs during the conduct of the study. 
However, out of the total reported three (03) AEs, two (02) AEs in the subject No. 1027 were significant. The 
subject was withdrawn from the study on medical grounds. He was treated appropriately and followed up 
until resolution of his AEs. The causality assessment was judged as possibly related for both the AEs. 
Other individual laboratory measurements (biochemistry, haematology, immunology and urine analysis) 
were, in some cases, outside their reference intervals but not to an extent to be considered clinically 
significant by the study physician. 
Pharmacokinetic Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Deferasirox Accord is considered bioequivalent with Exjade. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application.  
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
In this generic application, essential similarity is claimed to the reference medicinal product Exjade. To 
support this application, the applicant submitted the review of non-clinical and clinical data as well as a 
bioequivalence study (study 0382-17).  
Deferasirox Accord 360 mg film-coated tablets were compared with Exjade 360 mg film-coated tablets 
(Novartis Europharm Ltd. (IE) in a bioequivalence study in healthy adult volunteers under fasting conditions. 
The study design is deemed appropriate regarding the number of randomized subjects, wash-out period, 
sampling periods and test- and reference products.  
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 22/30 
  
  
The SmPC of the originator (Exjade 360 mg film coated tablets) allows to crush tablets and to administer 
them dispersed in a light meal in case patients are unable to swallow the whole. In line with the revised 
PKWP position, it is highly unlikely that the change in bioavailability will be different between test and 
reference, once bioequivalence has been shown between test and reference with the intact or non-dispersed 
tablet. Consequently, if the SmPC of the reference product allows for the possibility to administer the tablet 
crushed/disintegrated (and dispersed in food), bioequivalence does not need to be demonstrated with this 
additional mode of administration. Thus, based on the results of the presented bioequivalence study, 
Deferasirox Accord 360 mg film-coated tablets can be considered bioequivalent with Exjade 360 mg film-
coated tablets. 
A biowaiver was requested for the additional 90 mg and 180 mg strengths of Deferasirox Accord, based on 
the conditions mentioned in the Bioequivalence guideline. As all the conditions were met, the results of study 
No. 0382-17 with the 360 mg tablets can be extrapolated to the strengths of 90 mg and 180 mg. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
To support this generic application, the Applicant submitted one bioequivalence study. The results of this 
study support the claim of essential similarity of Deferasirox Accord 360 mg film-coated tablets to the 
reference medicinal product Exjade 360 mg tablets.  
The biowaiver requested for the additional 90 mg and 180 mg strengths of Deferasirox Accord is acceptable 
and thus, the results of study No. 0382-17 for the 360 mg tablets can be extrapolated to the other strengths, 
90 mg and 180 mg. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns  
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
•  Renal disorders (increased serum creatinine, acute renal failure 
(ARF), renal tubular disorders [acquired Fanconi’s syndrome])  
Increased liver transaminases / Hepatic failure 
• 
•  Gastrointestinal haemorrhage and ulcers; esophagitis  
•  Hearing loss  
• 
•  Severe cutaneous adverse reactions (SCARs) (including 
Lens opacities, retinal changes and optic neuritis 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome [SJS], Toxic epidermal necrolysis 
[TEN] and Drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic 
symptoms [DRESS]) 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
•  Compliance with posology and biological monitoring 
•  Medication errors 
• 
Long term safety in paediatric NTDT patients aged 10 to 17 
years 
Pharmacovigilance plan  
No additional pharmacovigilance activities. 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 23/30 
  
  
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
Important identified risks 
Renal disorders 
Routine risk minimization measures : 
(increased serum 
Sections 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.8, 5.2 and 5.3 of Deferasirox SmPC and corresponding 
creatinine, acute 
section of PL has information on this safety concern. 
renal 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
failure (ARF), renal 
the product. 
tubular disorders 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
[acquired Fanconi’s 
None 
syndrome]) 
Increased liver 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
transaminases / 
Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8 of Deferasirox SmPC and corresponding section of PL 
Hepatic 
failure 
has information on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Gastrointestinal 
hemorrhage and 
Sections 4.4, 4.5 and 4.8 of Deferasirox SmPC and corresponding section of PL 
ulcers; 
esophagitis 
has information on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Hearing loss 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Sections 4.4 and 4.8 of Deferasirox SmPC and corresponding section of PL has 
information on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Lens opacities, retinal 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
changes and optic 
Sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.3 of Deferasirox SmPC and corresponding section of PL 
neuritis 
has information on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Severe cutaneous 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
adverse 
Sections 4.4 and 4.8 of Deferasirox SmPC have information on this safety concern. 
reactions (SCARs) 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
(including SJS, TEN 
the product. 
and DRESS) 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 24/30 
  
  
Safety concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
Important Potential Risks 
None 
Compliance with 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
posology and 
Sections 4.2 and 4.4 of Deferasirox SmPC and corresponding section of PL has 
biological 
monitoring 
information on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Educational materials for physicians and patients 
Medication errors 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.2 of Deferasirox SmPC and corresponding section of PL has information 
on this safety concern. 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
the product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Educational materials for physicians and patients 
Missing information 
Long term safety in 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
pediatric NTDT 
Sections 4.2 and 4.4 of Deferasirox SmPC have information on this safety concern. 
patients 
Other routine risk minimisation measures include the prescription only status of 
aged 10 to 17 years 
the 
product. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.2 is acceptable. However, the 
applicant should submit a variation with one month of marketing authorisation, aligning the specific adverse 
reaction follow-up checklists with those described in the RMP of the originator and replacing “PIL” by “PL”. 
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 25/30 
  
  
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of deferasirox tablets. The reference product Exjade is indicated 
for: the treatment of chronic iron overload due to frequent blood transfusions (≥7 ml/kg/month of packed red 
blood cells) in patients with beta thalassaemia major aged 6 years and older. 
Exjade is also indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions when 
deferoxamine therapy is contraindicated or inadequate in the following patient groups: 
- in paediatric patients with beta thalassaemia major with iron overload due to frequent blood transfusions 
(≥7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells) aged 2 to 5 years, 
- in adult and paediatric patients with beta thalassaemia major with iron overload due to infrequent blood 
transfusions (<7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells) aged 2 years and older, 
- in adult and paediatric patients with other anaemias aged 2 years and older. 
Exjade is also indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload requiring chelation therapy when 
deferoxamine therapy is contraindicated or inadequate in patients with non-transfusion-dependent 
thalassaemia syndromes aged 10 years and older. 
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical 
perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as 
well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical 
aspects based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with a comparative, randomized, balanced, two-treatment, 
two-period, two-sequence, two-way crossover open label bioequivalence study on healthy volunteers with a 
single dose administration under fasting conditions. The study design was considered adequate to evaluate 
the bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with the respective European requirements. Choice of 
dose, sampling points, overall sampling time as well as wash-out period were adequate. The analytical 
method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied and adequately presented. 
The test formulation of Deferasirox Accord met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when 
compared with the Exjade. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the parameters AUC0-t, 
AUC0-∞, and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of 80.00 to 125.00%. 
Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 26/30 
  
  
 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those 
included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
benefit-risk balance of Deferasirox Accord is favourable in the following indication: 
the treatment of chronic iron overload due to frequent blood transfusions (≥7 ml/kg/month of packed red 
blood cells) in patients with beta thalassaemia major aged 6 years and older. 
Deferasirox Accord is also indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions when 
deferoxamine therapy is contraindicated or inadequate in the following patient groups: 
- 
in paediatric patients with beta thalassaemia major with iron overload due to frequent blood 
transfusions (≥7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells) aged 2 to 5 years, 
- 
in adult and paediatric patients with beta thalassaemia major with iron overload due to infrequent 
blood transfusions (<7 ml/kg/month of packed red blood cells) aged 2 years and older, 
- 
in adult and paediatric patients with other anaemias aged 2 years and older. 
Deferasirox Accord is also indicated for the treatment of chronic iron overload requiring chelation therapy 
when deferoxamine therapy is contraindicated or inadequate in patients with non-transfusion-dependent 
thalassaemia syndromes aged 10 years and older, 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP 
presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 27/30 
  
  
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Additional risk minimisation measures 
The MAH must inform the European Medicines Agency and the CHMP of the results of the surveillance 
programme in each Member State. 
As well as the requirements in the legislation, the following serious ADRs should be forwarded on an 
expedited basis to the appropriate competent authority as well as summarised in the periodic safety update 
reports: 
o 
Increase in hepatic enzymes >10x ULN 
o  Serious rise in creatinine 
o  Results of renal biopsies, if available 
o  Cataracts 
o  Hearing loss 
o  Gallstones 
Prior to launch of Deferasirox Accord in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) must 
agree about the content and format of the educational programme, including communication media, 
distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent Authority. 
The educational programme is aimed to inform healthcare professionals and patients to minimise the risks of: 
•  Non-compliance of the posology and biological monitoring 
Medication errors [due to switching between formulations available on the market by different MAHs 
(dispersible tablets and film-coated tablets/granules)] 
The MAH shall ensure that, at launch, in each Member State where Deferasirox Accord is marketed, all 
healthcare professionals and patients who are expected to prescribe, dispense and use Deferasirox Accord 
are provided with the following educational package for all available formulations (e.g. dispersible tablets, 
film-coated tablets and granules) for all indications: 
• 
• 
Physician educational material 
Patient information pack 
Additional periodic distributions after launch should be performed, notably after substantial safety 
modifications of the product information justifying educational material updates. 
The physician educational material should contain: 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 28/30 
  
  
 
 
• 
The Summary of Product Characteristics 
•  Guide for healthcare professionals 
The Guide for healthcare professionals shall contain the following key elements: 
•  Description of available deferasirox formulations on the market (e.g. dispersible tablets, film-coated 
tablets and granules) 
◦  Different posology regimen 
◦  Different conditions of administration 
◦  Dose conversion table when switching from one formulation to another 
The recommended doses and the rules for starting treatment 
The need to monitor serum ferritin monthly 
That deferasirox causes rises in serum creatinine in some patients 
o  The need to monitor serum creatinine 
•  On two occasions prior to initiation of treatment 
• 
• 
• 
•  Every week during the first month of initiation of treatment or after therapy  modification 
•  Monthly thereafter 
o  The need to reduce by 10 mg/kg the dose if serum creatinine rises: 
•  Adults: >33% above baseline and creatinine clearance <LLN (90 ml/min) 
• 
Paediatrics: either >ULN or creatinine clearance falls to <LLN at two consecutive visits. 
o  The need to interrupt treatment after a dose reduction if serum creatinine rises: 
•  Adults and Paediatrics: remain >33% above baseline or creatinine clearance 
•  <LLN (90 ml/min) 
o  The need to consider renal biopsy: 
•  When serum creatinine is elevated and if another abnormality has been detected (e.g. 
proteinuria, signs of Fanconi syndrome). 
• 
The importance of measuring creatinine clearance 
•  Brief overview of methods of measuring creatinine clearance 
• 
That rises in serum transaminases may occur in patients treated with Deferasirox Accord 
o  The need for liver function tests prior to prescription, then at monthly intervals or more often if 
clinically indicated 
o  Not to prescribe to patients with pre-existing severe hepatic disease 
o  The need to interrupt treatment if persistent and progressive increase in liver enzyme were noted. 
• 
The need for annual auditory and ophthalmic testing 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 29/30 
  
  
 
• 
The need for a guidance table highlighting pre-treatment measurements of serum creatinine, creatinine 
clearance, proteinuria, hepatic enzymes, ferritin, such as: 
Before initiating treatment 
Serum creatinine at Day – X 
Serum creatinine at Day – Y 
Value 1 
Value 2 
X and Y are the days (to be determined) when pre-treatment measurements should be performed. 
•  A warning on the risk of overchelation and on the necessity of close monitoring of serum ferritin levels 
and renal and hepatic function. 
• 
The rules for treatment dose adjustments and interruption when target serum ferritin +/− liver iron 
concentration are reached. 
•  Recommendations for treatment of non-transfusion-dependent thalassaemia (NTDT) syndromes: 
o 
Information that only one course of treatment is proposed for NTDT patients 
o  A warning on the necessity of closer monitoring of liver iron concentration and serum ferritin in the 
paediatric population 
o  A warning on the currently unknown safety consequences of long-term treatment in the paediatric 
population 
The patient information pack should contain: 
• 
• 
Patient information leaflet 
Patient guide 
Patient guide should contain the following key elements: 
o 
o 
Information on the need for regular monitoring, and when it should be carried out, of  serum 
creatinine, creatinine clearance, proteinuria, hepatic enzymes, ferritin 
Information that renal biopsy may be considered if significant renal abnormalities occur 
o  Availability of several oral formulations (e.g. dispersible tablets, film-coated tablets and  granules) 
and the main differences associated with these formulations (i.e., different  posology regimen, 
different conditions of administration notably with food) 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product to be implemented by the Member States 
Not applicable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/659255/2019 
Page 30/30 
  
  
 
 
