EMA/515414/2019 
EMEA/H/C/005014 
Deferasirox Mylan (deferasirox) 
An overview of Deferasirox Mylan and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Deferasirox Mylan and what is it used for? 
Deferasirox Mylan is a medicine used to treat chronic iron overload (an excess of iron in the body) in: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
patients from 6 years of age who have beta thalassaemia major (an inherited blood disorder in 
which patients do not have enough normal haemoglobin - the protein that carries oxygen around 
the body - in the blood) and who receive frequent blood transfusions; 
children aged 2 to 5 years with beta thalassaemia major who receive frequent blood transfusions, 
when deferoxamine (another medicine used to treat iron overload) cannot be used or is 
inadequate; 
patients from 2 years of age with beta thalassaemia major who receive infrequent blood 
transfusions, when deferoxamine cannot be used or is inadequate; 
patients from 2 years of age who suffer from other types of anaemia (low levels of haemoglobin in 
the blood) and who receive blood transfusions, when deferoxamine cannot be used or is 
inadequate; 
patients from 10 years of age with non-transfusion-dependent thalassaemia syndromes, when 
deferoxamine cannot be used or is inadequate. Non-transfusion-dependent thalassaemia 
syndromes are blood disorders similar to beta thalassaemia major but which do not require blood 
transfusions. In these patients iron overload is caused by excess absorption of iron from the gut. 
Deferasirox Mylan contains the active substance deferasirox and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means 
that Deferasirox Mylan contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Exjade. For more information on generic medicines, see 
the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Deferasirox Mylan used? 
Deferasirox Mylan can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and 
supervised by a doctor who is experienced in the treatment of chronic iron overload. 
Deferasirox Mylan is available as film-coated tablets (90 mg, 180 mg and 360 mg), to be taken once a 
day at around the same time. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The starting dose of Deferasirox Mylan depends on the patient’s body weight, what the medicine is 
used for, and on the level of iron overload. The dose is then adjusted as needed, every 3 to 6 months, 
according to the iron levels in the blood. 
For more information about using Deferasirox Mylan, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Deferasirox Mylan work? 
When the body cannot remove iron effectively, the excess iron can cause damage. The active 
substance in Deferasirox Mylan, deferasirox, is an ‘iron chelator’. It attaches to excess iron in the body 
to form a compound called a ‘chelate’ that can be removed by the body, mainly in the stool. This helps 
to correct the iron overload and prevent damage to organs such as the heart or liver from excess iron. 
How has Deferasirox Mylan been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Exjade, and do not need to be repeated for Deferasirox Mylan.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Deferasirox Mylan. The company 
also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two medicines 
are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body and are 
therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Deferasirox Mylan? 
Because Deferasirox Mylan is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Deferasirox Mylan authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Deferasirox 
Mylan has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Exjade. Therefore, the 
Agency’s view was that, as for Exjade, the benefits of Deferasirox Mylan outweigh the identified risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Deferasirox Mylan? 
The company that markets Deferasirox Mylan must issue an education pack to healthcare 
professionals. This pack aims to inform them about the treatment recommendations with Deferasirox 
Mylan, including choosing the right dose and the need to monitor the patient’s health, especially kidney 
function. The company will also prepare a similar pack for patients. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Deferasirox Mylan have also been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Deferasirox Mylan are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Deferasirox Mylan are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Deferasirox Mylan (deferasirox)  
EMA/515414/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Deferasirox Mylan 
Deferasirox Mylan received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 September 2019. 
Further information on Deferasirox Mylan can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/deferasirox-mylan. Information on the reference medicine can 
also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 09-2019. 
Deferasirox Mylan (deferasirox)  
EMA/515414/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
