EMA/549619/2019  
EMEA/H/C/002393 
Defitelio (defibrotide) 
An overview of Defitelio and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Defitelio and what is it used for? 
Defitelio is a medicine used to treat severe veno-occlusive disease (VOD) in patients undergoing 
haematopoietic (blood) stem cell transplantation. VOD is a condition in which the veins in the liver 
become blocked and stop the liver working properly. Defitelio is used in adults and in children from one 
month of age. 
Defitelio contains the active substance defibrotide.  
VOD is rare, and Defitelio was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 
29 July 2004. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation. 
How is Defitelio used? 
Defitelio can only be obtained with a prescription and it must be prescribed and given by a doctor 
experienced in the management of complications of blood stem cell transplantation. It is given by 
infusion (drip) into a vein over 2 hours 4 times a day. The dose depends on the patient’s bodyweight. 
Treatment should last for at least 3 weeks and continue until the patient no longer has symptoms. For 
more information about using Defitelio, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Defitelio work? 
VOD is usually a complication resulting from a treatment known as ‘myeloablative chemotherapy’ given 
before blood stem cell transplantation. Myeloablative chemotherapy is used to clear the patient’s bone 
marrow of cells before receiving healthy stem cells. The medicines used for this treatment can damage 
the lining of the blood vessels in the liver, leading to the formation of clots and obstruction of the 
vessels seen in VOD. 
The active substance in Defitelio, defibrotide, works by increasing the breakdown of clots in the blood. 
In addition, defibrotide may protect the cells that line blood vessels. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Defitelio have been shown in studies? 
Severe VOD has a high mortality rate of 75% or higher. In one main study involving 102 patients with 
severe VOD following blood stem cell transplantation, Defitelio was compared with past records of 
patients who had received standard supportive care. Defitelio lowered the mortality rate to 62% at 100 
days after transplantation, and 24% of patients had no symptoms of severe VOD after 100 days.  
Benefits of Defitelio were also seen in data from a United States patient registry (information about 
patients collected in a standard way), where patients with severe VOD after blood stem cell 
transplantation who received Defitelio plus standard care had better outcomes than those given 
standard care alone, including a higher 100-day survival rate (39% versus 31%) and a higher 
proportion of patients whose VOD resolved (51% versus 29%). 
What are the risks associated with Defitelio? 
The most common side effects with Defitelio are hypotension (low blood pressure) and bleeding. For 
the full list of side effects of Defitelio, see the package leaflet. 
Defitelio must not be used together with other medicines that break down blood clots. For the full list 
of restrictions, see the package leaflet.  
Why is Defitelio authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Defitelio’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. Defitelio had been shown to improve survival in patients with severe 
VOD. Although it was not possible to conduct a study directly comparing Defitelio with placebo (dummy 
treatment), the company had provided sufficient data to show that patients treated with the medicine 
had improved chances of survival. The side effects seen, such as bleeding, were considered 
manageable and it was not possible to determine with certainty whether they were caused by Defitelio. 
Defitelio has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This is because it has not been 
possible to obtain complete information about Defitelio due to the rarity of the disease. Every year, the 
Agency will review any new information that becomes available and this overview will be updated as 
necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Defitelio? 
Since Defitelio has been authorised under exceptional circumstances, the company that markets the 
medicine is required to provide results of an ongoing study on safety of the medicine when used for 
prevention of VOD in adults and children undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. The 
company will also analyse data on transplant outcomes in VOD patients who have and have not been 
treated with Defitelio.   
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Defitelio? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Defitelio have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Defitelio are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Defitelio are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Defitelio 
Defitelio received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union on 18 October 2013. 
Further information on Defitelio can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 10-2019.  
