Summary of risk management plan for DELSTRIGO (doravirine + lamivudine + 
tenofovir disoproxil)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for DELSTRIGO. The RMP details 
important risks of DELSTRIGO and how more information will be obtained about 
DELSTRIGO’s risks and uncertainties (missing information).
DELSTRIGO’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how DELSTRIGO should 
be used. 
This summary of the RMP for DELSTRIGO should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
DELSTRIGO’s RMP.
I.
The Medicine and What it is Used For
DELSTRIGO is authorised for the treatment of adults infected with HIV-1 without past or 
present evidence of resistance to the NNRTI class, lamivudine, or tenofovir.
DELSTRIGO is also indicated for the treatment of adolescents aged 12 years and older 
weighing at least 35 kg who are infected with HIV-1 without past or present evidence of 
resistance to the NNRTI class, lamivudine, or tenofovir and who have experienced toxicities 
which preclude the use of other regimens that do not contain tenofovir disoproxil.  It contains 
doravirine (+) lamivudine (+) tenofovir disoproxil as the active substances and it is given 
only by mouth.
Further information about the evaluation of DELSTRIGO’s benefits can be found in 
DELSTRIGO’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: link to product’s EPAR summary landing page on 
the EMA webpage.
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=/pages/medicines/human/medicines/004746/h
uman_med_002329.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124.
II.
Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of DELSTRIGO, together with measures to minimise such risks and the
proposed studies for learning more about DOR/3TC/TDF's risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
•
•
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly;
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of DELSTRIGO is not yet available, it 
is listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of DELSTRIGO are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of DELSTRIGO. Potential risks are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine);
Table II.A.1:
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Safety Concern for DELSTRIGO
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
None
None
Missing information
Safety during pregnancy
II.B
Summary of Important Risks
Table II.B.1:
Missing Information: Safety During Pregnancy
Risk minimisation measures
Routine risk minimisation measures:

Section 4.6 and Section 5.3 of the SmPC.
 What you need to know before you take DELSTRIGO section of the
Package Leaflet
Additional risk minimization measures:

None
II.C
Post-authorisation Development Plan
II.C.1
Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of DELSTRIGO.
II.C.2
Other Studies in Post-authorisation Development Plan
There are no studies required for DELSTRIGO.
