EMA/472076/2021  
EMEA/H/C/002552 
Deltyba (delamanid) 
An overview of Deltyba and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Deltyba and what is it used for? 
Deltyba is a medicine that  is used in adults, adolescents, children and infants weighing at  least 10  kg 
who have tuberculosis affecting the lung and that  is multi-drug resistant (resistant  to at least isoniazid 
and rifampicin, the two standard tuberculosis medicines).  
It is used together with other tuberculosis medicines and only when other standard medicine cannot be 
used either because the  disease is resistant to  them or because of their side effects.  
Deltyba contains the active substance delamanid. 
Tuberculosis is rare in the  EU, and Deltyba was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in 
rare diseases) on 1 February 2008.  Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu307524 
How is Deltyba used? 
Deltyba can only be obtained with  a prescription and treatment should be started and monitored by a 
doctor who is experienced in the treatment  of multi-drug  resistant tuberculosis. It should be used 
according to  official guidelines on treating multi-drug  resistant tuberculosis. 
The medicine is available as 50 mg tablets and 25 mg dispersible tables which are taken with  food. The 
25 mg dispersible tablets  are only for children and infants weighing between 10 and 30 kg. The 
recommended dose for adults  is 100 mg twice a day, while the  dose for children and infants depends 
on the patient’s body weight. 
Deltyba is given for 6 months  together with other tuberculosis medicines. Treatment with  these 
medicines should continue  after Deltyba treatment,  as recommended by official guidelines. For more 
information about using Deltyba, see the package leaflet or contact a doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Deltyba work? 
Tuberculosis is an infection caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M.  tuberculosis). The 
active substance in Deltyba, delamanid, is an antibiotic  active against M.  tuberculosis. Although  the 
way it works is unclear, delamanid is known to block the production of methoxy-mycolic and keto-
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
mycolic acids, two essential components of the cell walls of M. tuberculosis, which  will cause the 
bacteria to  die.  
What benefits of Deltyba have been shown in studies? 
The effects of Deltyba have been looked at in one main study involving 481  adults with  tuberculosis 
resistant to standard treatments. Patients in the  study were given Deltyba or placebo (a dummy 
treatment) for 2 months in addition  to their other treatments. The main measure of effectiveness was 
the proportion of patients who no longer had the  bacteria in their sputum  (phlegm). After 2 months  of 
treatment more than 40% of the patients  who were taking Deltyba no longer had the bacteria in their 
sputum compared with  30% of the patients  who were taking placebo. 
After the main study had finished, patients  had the option to receive treatment with  Deltyba for 6 
months in an extension study. In addition, a majority of patients who entered the main study were 
followed up for up to  24 months afterwards. Looking at the  results of these follow-up studies together, 
2 years after starting  treatment 75%  of patients  who received Deltyba for 6 months or more had no 
bacteria in  their sputum compared with  55% of patients who received Deltyba for 2 months or less. 
Additional data indicate that  the medicine will  be as effective in children, including infants,  as it  is in 
adults. 
What are the risks associated with Deltyba? 
The most common side effects with  Deltyba (which  may affect more than 1 patient  in 10) are nausea, 
vomiting, headache, insomnia (sleeping problems), dizziness, tinnitus  (ringing or buzzing in the ears), 
blood tests showing low potassium levels in the blood, gastritis  (inflammation of the stomach lining), 
decreased appetite and weakness. For the full  list of side effects of Deltyba, see the package leaflet. 
Deltyba must  not be used in patients  who have low levels of albumin (a blood protein). It must also 
not be used in patients who are taking  certain other medicines that  affect the way Deltyba is broken 
down in the body. For the full  list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Deltyba authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that  Deltyba’s benefits are greater than  its risks and it  can be 
authorised for use in the EU.  The Agency considered that  the benefits of Deltyba had been shown for 
patients with  multi-drug  resistant tuberculosis affecting the  lung. Although the  main study was of short 
duration and the follow-up studies had shortcomings, the Agency considered that  the effects shown 
after the initial 2  months of treatment are likely to be sustained for the full treatment duration. The 
Agency noted that  an on-going clinical study will provide confirmation on the long-term effectiveness. 
The safety profile was considered manageable and several measures were introduced to  minimise the 
risks, including  a study  to confirm the long-term safety. Furthermore, the medical need for new agents 
to treat multi-drug  resistant tuberculosis was highlighted. 
Deltyba has been given ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that there is more evidence to come 
about the medicine, which the company is required to provide. Every year, the European Medicines 
Agency will review any new information that  becomes available and this  overview will be updated as 
necessary. 
Deltyba (delamanid)  
EMA/472076/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What information is still awaited for Deltyba? 
Since Deltyba has been given conditional  authorisation, the company that  markets Deltyba will  carry 
out further studies to confirm the long-term effectiveness and safety of Deltyba. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Deltyba? 
The company that  markets Deltyba will provide educational material for healthcare professionals, 
explaining how to use the medicine safely to avoid problems such as the  development of resistance 
and side effects on the heart, as well as the risks in  pregnancy or women who are breast-feeding. 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Deltyba have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Deltyba are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Deltyba are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Deltyba 
Deltyba received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the  European Union on 28  April 2014. 
Further information on Deltyba can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/deltyba.  
This overview was last updated in  08-2021.   
Deltyba (delamanid)  
EMA/472076/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
