11 November 2021 
EMA/754271/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Dengvaxia  
Common name: dengue tetravalent vaccine (live, attenuated) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004171/II/0011 
Note  
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Type II variation ................................................................................................ 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 5 
2.1.1. Problem statement .......................................................................................... 6 
2.1.2. About the product ......................................................................................... 10 
2.1.3. General comments on compliance with GCP guidelines ........................................ 11 
2.2. Non-clinical aspects .......................................................................................... 11 
2.3. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 11 
2.3.1. Supportive aspects ........................................................................................ 11 
2.3.2. Introduction ................................................................................................. 11 
2.3.3. Specification of the indication to Previous dengue infection .................................. 12 
2.3.4. Eligibility Criteria for Vaccination ...................................................................... 14 
2.3.5. Use of the Vaccine in Individuals Not Living in Endemic Area ............................... 25 
2.3.6. Clinical safety ............................................................................................... 31 
2.3.7. Discussion .................................................................................................... 31 
2.3.8. Conclusions .................................................................................................. 33 
2.4. Update of the Product information ...................................................................... 34 
2.4.1. User consultation........................................................................................... 39 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance.............................................................................. 39 
3.1. Therapeutic Context ......................................................................................... 39 
3.1.1. Disease or condition....................................................................................... 39 
3.1.2. Available therapies and unmet medical need ..................................................... 40 
3.1.3. Main clinical studies ....................................................................................... 40 
3.2. Favourable effects ............................................................................................ 41 
3.3. Uncertainties and limitations about favourable effects ........................................... 41 
3.4. Unfavourable effects ......................................................................................... 41 
3.5. Uncertainties and limitations about unfavourable effects ........................................ 42 
3.6. Effects Table ................................................................................................... 42 
3.7. Benefit-risk assessment and discussion ............................................................... 42 
3.7.1. Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects ............................................ 42 
3.7.2. Balance of benefits and risks ........................................................................... 42 
3.7.3. Additional considerations on the benefit-risk balance .......................................... 43 
3.8. Conclusions ..................................................................................................... 43 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 43 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 2/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
CCDS 
Company Core Data sheet 
CCID50  
cell-culture infectious dose 50% 
CDP 
Clinical Development Programme 
ELISA   
Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
EMA 
FDA 
NS 
PDI 
European Medicines Agency 
Food and Drug Administration 
Non structural 
Past dengue infection 
PRNT 
plaque reduction neutralization test 
RDT 
RMP 
VCD 
VE 
Rapid diagnostic test 
Risk Management Plan 
virologically-confirmed dengue 
Vaccine efficacy 
WHO 
World Health Organization 
YF 
Yellow fever 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 3/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, on 20 August 2020 Sanofi Pasteur 
submitted an application for a variation to the European Medicines Agency.  
The following variation was requested: 
Variation requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.6.a  
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition 
Type II 
I and IIIB 
of a new therapeutic indication or modification of an 
approved one  
To modify the approved therapeutic indication to include conditions for the eligibility to pre-vaccination 
serostatus screening. As a consequence, sections 4.1, 4.2 and 4.4 of the SmPC and sections 1, 2 and 3 
of the Package Leaflet are updated accordingly. 
The variation requested amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included (an) EMA Decision(s) 
P/0065/2020 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP). 
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP EMEA-001545-PIP01-13-M02 was completed. 
The PDCO issued an opinion on compliance for the PIP EMA/PDCO/172848/2020. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000,  the  MAH  did  not  submit  a  critical  report  addressing  the  possible  similarity  with  authorised 
orphan  medicinal  products  because  there  is  no  authorised  orphan  medicinal  product  for  a  condition 
related to the proposed indication. 
Scientific advice 
The MAH did not seek Scientific Advice at the CHMP. 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 4/44 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
Christophe Focke 
Timetable 
Submission date 
Start of procedure: 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
CHMP members comments 
Actual dates 
20 August 2020 
12 September 2020 
10 November 2020 
30 November 2020 
Updated CHMP Rapporteur(s) (Joint) Assessment Report 
4 December 2020 
Request for supplementary information (RSI) 
10 December 2020 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
CHMP members comments 
Updated CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
Request for supplementary information (RSI) 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
CHMP members comments 
Updated CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
CHMP Opinion 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
27 April 2021 
n/a 
12 May 2021 
20 May 2021 
27 October 2021 
n/a 
5 November 2021 
11 November 2021 
In the EU, at the time of this application, Dengvaxia was indicated for the prevention of dengue disease 
caused by dengue virus serotypes 1, 2, 3, and 4 in individuals 9 to 45 years of age with prior dengue 
virus infection and living in endemic areas. The vaccination schedule consists of 3 injections 6-month 
apart. 
Large randomized controlled trials in dengue endemic regions revealed an overall efficacy of Dengvaxia 
in  preventing  virologically-confirmed  dengue  (VCD)  over  two  years  following  first  vaccination,  in 
individuals 9-16 years irrespective of serostatus. Efficacy was variable across the four dengue serotypes 
following vaccination. Dengvaxia also showed good efficacy in preventing severe dengue disease in that 
period. However, stratification by serostatus at baseline showed that vaccine efficacy in ≥9years of age 
individuals was actually lower in those who were seronegative than in those who were seropositive (39% 
vs. 76%, respectively) at baseline. Follow up of the subjects revealed an increased risk of severe dengue 
disease in vaccine recipients who were seronegative prior to vaccination. In contrast, vaccine efficacy 
was sustained in those seropositive at baseline, suggesting benefit of vaccination against more severe 
disease in this population. This lead in EU to the current indication with a restriction to individuals with 
prior dengue virus infection. 
To  maximize  the  positive  impact  of  the  vaccine,  while  maintaining  the  risk  of  vaccinating  false-
seropositive individuals to the minimum, the MAH proposed updates of the SmPC based on the following:  
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 5/44 
 
 
 
 
•  Removal from the indication (SmPC section 4.1) of the criterion limiting the use of the vaccine to 
individuals living in endemic areas or endemic transmission setting. The objective of this update is 
to address an unmet medical need in populations living in non-endemic areas with high probability 
of previous dengue infection, such as expatriates or people working for recurrent long-stay missions 
in endemic areas, who are likely to have been exposed to dengue in the past and could be re-exposed 
in the future. They would therefore be eligible to screening and vaccination, if tested positive. 
•  Update of the eligibility criteria for vaccination in SmPC section 4.2, by adding further details. 
•    Harmonization of the wording of the indication worldwide, limiting the use of the vaccine to individuals 
who tested positive to dengue. 
In their submission, the MAH presented additional knowledge accrued on the performance of existing 
serotests since the initial MAA, modelling data and a literature review. 
2.1.1.  Problem statement 
Disease or condition 
Dengue is an acute, systemic viral infection caused by a virus that is transmitted primarily by the Aedes 
aegypti mosquito bites. The infection may be asymptomatic, cause flu-like illness, and can develop into 
a  potentially  lethal  complication  called  severe  dengue  (including  dengue  hemorrhagic  fever 
[DHF]/dengue shock syndrome [DSS]).   
There are 4 types of closely related but antigenically distinct dengue virus serotypes (1, 2, 3, and 4). 
Primary  dengue  virus  infection  is  thought  to  provide  lifelong  protection  against  the  infecting  serotype 
and transient cross-protection against heterologous serotypes. Dengue haemorrhagic fever and dengue 
shock  syndrome  occur  mostly  in  individuals  during  secondary  dengue  virus  infection  with  a  different 
serotype. 
Proposed new therapeutic indication 
The  MAH  applied  for  an  extension  of  the  approved  indication  (SmPC  section  4.1)  to  individuals  who 
tested positive to dengue, living or not in endemic areas: 
Dengvaxia is indicated for the prevention of dengue disease caused by dengue virus serotypes 1, 2, 3 
and  4  in  individuals  9  to  45  years  of  age  with  test-confirmed  previous  dengue  infection  prior  dengue 
virus infection and living in endemic areas. 
To complement the proposed update of the indication, the MAH proposed to also include the following 
text  in  section  4.2:  ‘Dengvaxia  should  only  be  administered  to  individuals  with  a  previous  dengue 
infection.  Previous  dengue  infection  must  be  confirmed  by  a  test,  either  documented  in  the  medical 
history or performed prior to vaccination.’ 
The MAH considered that these proposed changes were supported by additional knowledge accrued on 
the performance of existing serotests to screen individuals, as well as on modeling data on the impact 
of  a  screen  and  vaccinate  approach  on  the  occurrence  of  dengue  disease  based  on  different  dengue 
endemicity levels and a literature review to further assess the burden of dengue in individuals not living 
in endemic areas and who had been exposed to the virus while residing or working in endemic areas. 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 6/44 
 
 
 
 
Epidemiology and risk factors 
Dengue is the most common mosquito-borne viral disease in humans, spreading globally during the past 
30 years as a result of changes in human ecology (Trop. Med. Infect. Dis 2020). The rapidly expanding 
global  footprint  of  dengue  inflicts  a  significant  public  health,  economic  and  social  burden  on  the 
populations of endemic areas. Half of the world's population is now considered at risk of infection by the 
dengue  viruses.  Worldwide,  an  estimated  390  million  dengue  infections  occur  every  year,  of  which 
around 100 million are associated with clinical manifestation of dengue. Around 500.000 hospitalizations 
are reported each year, and around 20.000 cases result in death. 
While  geographical  expansion  of  dengue  and  its  vector  are  evident,  the  true  burden  of  symptomatic 
dengue  disease  is  underestimated.  The  true  numbers  are  probably  far  worse,  since  significant 
underreporting  and  misclassification  of  dengue  cases  have  been  documented.  Constraints  inherent  to 
public health surveillance systems and challenges specific to dengue do not allow dengue cases to be 
fully captured by public health surveillance systems. 
The terms ‘endemicity’ and ‘hyperendemicity’ are used to indicate the simultaneous circulation of one or 
several Dengue virus serotypes, respectively (Trop. Med. Infect. Dis 2020). Dengue epidemiology varies 
across regions and seasons, meaning that simultaneous exposure to all 4 DENV serotypes is unlikely in 
a natural setting. An endemic region is defined as a region where cases are present over the majority of 
time during the year. This means that transmission is constantly ongoing. In contrast, an epidemic region 
is a region where cases are only present during a short period of time. Yearly epidemics can happen, or 
an epidemic can happen over several years. 
In endemic areas, the entire population is at risk of dengue infection. The disease affects all age groups. 
The age distribution of infected individuals varies between countries and no clear pattern of populations 
at  risk  has  been  identified.  Additionally,  the  population  at  highest  risk  can  shift  over  time,  as  was 
observed in Colombia and Thailand over the last decade. 
Seroprevalence is a proxy for endemicity. During an epidemic 70% of the population could be infected, 
hence  a  seroprevalence  of  70%  could  be  reached  for  that  circulating  serotype,  but  when  there  is  no 
transmission in the rest of the year(s), it is not considered an endemic region. Dengue epidemiology is 
dynamic  in  serotype  prevalence.  The  seroprevalence  of  each  serotype  fluctuates  over  time.  The  four 
dengue  virus  serotypes  are  genetically  diverse  and  share  limited  identity  (around  60-75%)  at  the 
aminoacid  level.  Genetic  variations  between  serotypes  and  clades  may  be  important  determinants  of 
differential viral fitness, virulence and epidemic potential. 
Geographical distribution 
Dengue disease is a major public health concern in more than 128 countries, with the four dengue virus 
serotypes found in tropical and sub-tropical regions, including some European territories. 
Dengue is endemic in Asia, the Pacific area, Africa, and Latin America (including the Caribbean). In 2017, 
more than 500.000 dengue cases were reported to the WHO South-East Asia office and in 2019 more 
than 1 million cases were reported to the WHO Western Pacific region main countries for dengue (i.e., 
Australia, Cambodia, Lao Popular Democratic Republic, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore and Viet Nam). 
A  decrease  of  75%  in  number  of  dengue  cases  was  reported  across  the  Americas  in  2017  and  2018, 
compared to 2016. However, the incidence of disease increased again in 2019 with a total of more than 
3 million cases reported for the WHO Americas region. 
After decades of absence in the United States of America (US), dengue has recently emerged with cases 
which were locally acquired.  
Sustained transmission of dengue fever does not naturally occur in continental Europe, though sporadic 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 7/44 
 
 
 
autochthonous dengue cases had been reported in Croatia in 2010 and in France in 2010, 2013, 2014, 
and  2015,  even  if  more  limited.  Dengue,  however,  is  endemic  in  the  overseas  territories  of  some 
European countries such as France (French Guiana, Martinique and Guadeloupe). 
In 2020, dengue continues to affect several countries, with reports of increases in the numbers of cases 
in  Bangladesh,  Brazil,  Cook  Islands,  Ecuador,  India,  Indonesia,  Maldives,  Mauritania,  Mayotte  (Fr), 
Nepal, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Thailand, Timor-Leste and Yemen. 
Risk factors for severe dengue  
Epidemiologic studies have identified young age, female sex, high body-mass index, virus strain, and 
genetic  variants  of  the  human  major-histocompatibility-complex  class  I–related  sequence  B  and 
phospholipase C epsilon 1 genes as risk factors for severe dengue.  
Young children in particular may be less able than adults to compensate for capillary leakage and are 
consequently at greater risk of dengue shock.  
Chronic  disease  (bronchial  asthma,  sickle  cell  anaemia  and  diabetes  mellitus)  and  ethnicity  may 
represent additional individual risk factors that determine the severity of disease. 
Secondary infection as risk factor for severe dengue 
Primary  dengue  virus  infection  is  thought  to  provide  lifelong  protection  against  the  infecting  serotype 
and transient cross-protection against heterologous serotypes. Dengue haemorrhagic fever and dengue 
shock  syndrome  occur  mostly  in  individuals  during  secondary  dengue  virus  infection  with  a  different 
serotype.  Increased  risk  in  secondary  infection  is  thought  to  be  linked  to  antibody-dependent 
enhancement of virus infection in Fc receptor–bearing cells and the generation of a large infected cell 
mass in vivo. The antibody-mediated enhancement of dengue seems to be related with the presence of 
suboptimal neutralizing heterotypic antibodies (that accelerate the rate of internalization of the virus and 
infection of host cells), and may also be related to the presence of memory T cells with low affinity for 
the present infecting virus but high affinity for previous infecting serotype(s). 
Clinical presentation and diagnosis 
- Clinical presentation 
Dengue  disease  has  a  wide  and  unpredictable  range  of  clinical  presentations,  from  asymptomatic  to 
severe  diseases.  According  to  CDC,  an  estimated  1  in  4  dengue  virus  infections  are  symptomatic. 
Symptomatic dengue virus infection most commonly presents as a mild to moderate, nonspecific, acute 
febrile illness. Approximately 1 in 20 patients with dengue virus disease progress to develop severe, life-
threatening  disease  called  severe  dengue.  Severe  dengue  is  a  potentially  fatal  complication,  due  to 
plasma leaking, fluid accumulation, respiratory distress, severe bleeding, or organ impairment. Dengue 
shock syndrome (DSS) is the most severe form of dengue disease and results from hypovolaemia caused 
by vascular leakage. Early clinical findings are nonspecific but require a high index of suspicion because 
recognizing early signs of shock and promptly initiating intensive supportive therapy can reduce risk of 
death among patients with severe dengue to <0.5%. 
- Diagnosis 
Diagnostic methods to confirm dengue virus infection may involve detection of viable virus, viral nucleic 
acid,  peripherally  circulating  viral  antigens  or  host  antibodies,  or  a  combination  of  these  techniques. 
Depending on the time of patient presentation, the application of different diagnostic methods may be 
more or less appropriate.  
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 8/44 
 
 
 
For the diagnosis of acute Dengue infection, tests are based on Dengue virus (DENV) isolation, presence 
of DENV antigens (NS1), detection of viral nucleic acids (RT-PCR), IgM seroconversion and/or 4-fold or 
greater rise in IgG antibody titre in paired blood samples collected at least 14 days apart. Virus detection 
and antigen detection are the most accurate diagnostic tools during the 5 first days of illness. IgG and 
IgM are not produced until 5-7 days after the onset of symptoms in primary infection. IgM levels can 
become undetectable after 3-6 months, while IgG levels often persist for lifetime and can be used to 
indicate  an  individuals’  previous  infection  with  DENV.  It  should  however  be  mentioned  that  people 
infected with or vaccinated against other flaviviruses (such as Zika, West Nile, yellow fever, and Japanese 
encephalitis  viruses)  may  have  cross-reactive  flavivirus  antibodies,  yielding  false-positive  serologic 
dengue diagnostic test results (WHO, CDC, Verhagen 2014). 
Determination of previous dengue virus exposure 
Measuring  anti-DENV  antibodies  (IgM  and  IgG)  can  be  done  using  conventional  ELISA  (most  widely 
used), using RDT or by plaque reduction neutralisation testing (PRNT). 
The gold standard test for previous dengue virus exposure (and vaccine immunogenicity) is the PRNT. 
PRNT is the most specific assay currently available, as cross-neutralisation with other flaviviruses is lower 
than with conventional IgM/IgG ELISAs. Unlike ELISA, the serotype specificity and sensitivity of PRNTs 
allows monitoring of dengue exposure history and population seroprevalence. PRNTs are costly, labour 
intensive  and  require  specialized  laboratory  expertise  and  equipment.  Despite  WHO  guidance  for 
standardization, variation in assay methodology exists (such as cell line used, viral strain and passage 
used, read out method etc.). Novel high-throughput pseudovirus-based neutralisation tests for multiple 
flaviviruses  have  been  develop  recently  that  have  reduced  the  turn-around  time  and  cost  of  PRNTs 
(Matsuda 2018). PRNT might be envisaged for pre-vaccination testing/testing strategy in settings where 
they can be performed, such as traveller setting. 
Even  if  performed  correctly,  antibody-capture  ELISAs  have  good  but  not  perfect  sensitivity  and 
specificity,  and  these  vary  between  commercial  kits.  There  are  two  major  limitations  associated  with 
antibody testing: (i) in endemic regions, IgM persists for about 60 days and IgG persists likely lifelong, 
meaning  that  positive  results  do  not  distinguish  recent  from  current  dengue  infections,  (ii)  cross-
reactivity with related flaviviruses increases uncertainty of serology testing in areas where flaviviruses 
co-circulate and/or where vaccination (such as YF or JEV) is done. 
RDTs (such as lateral flow tests) are rapid, simple and cheap tests detecting specific IgM/IgG that can 
be  done  at  the  point-of-care/point-of-vaccination.  The  short  turn-around  time  of  RDTs  could 
increase/maximize vaccine update. 
The problem with currently available RDTs is that they have not been validated yet for screening for past 
dengue  infection  and  may  lack  sensitivity  and  specificity  to  ensure  correct  serostatus  determination. 
Data on cross-reactivity are lacking. A recent systematic review (Luo 2019) evaluating the sensitivity 
and specificity of commercially available RDTs used to detect IgG against DENV as a marker of previous 
infection evidenced that, overall, there are no studies published that directly evaluated the use of RDTs 
(with  an  IgG  component)  for  DENV  serostatus  determination.  Since  then,  two  studies  evaluating  the 
performance of 4 commercialized RDTs (and 2 conventional ELISAs) for the detection of dengue past-
exposure have been published by the MAH (Bonaparte 2019 and 2020) and are part of this variation’s 
dossier. The MAH also provided the last performance of the RDT. 
Management and Prevention 
There is no specific treatment for dengue disease. The management of dengue disease is supportive, 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 9/44 
 
 
 
with rest, control of fever and pain with antipyretics/analgesics, and adequate fluid intake. Supportive 
intensive care and fluid management are the mainstays of therapy for severe disease. 
Up to the end of 2015, the only available prevention of dengue by vector control has proven to be of 
limited success, very difficult to sustain and costly. Vaccination provides a viable and practical alternative 
in disease control measures. The only vaccine currently on the market is Dengvaxia. 
Since the first marketing authorization obtained in Mexico on 8 December 2015, Dengvaxia has been 
licensed in 22 countries in total. However, due to a suspension for the license in the Philippines and the 
non-renewal  in  Malaysia,  at  the  time  of  this  application  the  vaccine  was  registered  by  21  regulatory 
authorities across the world. 
Based  on  EMA’s  CHMP  recommendation,  the  European  Commission  has  granted  the  marketing 
authorization in Europe on 12 December 2018.  
In the EU, Dengvaxia is indicated for the prevention of dengue disease caused by dengue virus serotypes 
1, 2, 3 and 4 in individuals 9 to 45 years of age with prior dengue virus infection and living in endemic 
areas. 
The prequalification by the World Health Organization (WHO) was granted on 25 March 2020.  
Despite registration in a certain number of countries, it should be noticed that there is a gap between 
the availability of Dengavxia and its use.  
As an example, in March 2019, the French authorities did not recommend Dengvaxia for people living in 
La  Réunion  and  Mayotte.  For  subjects  living  in  Guadeloupe,  Martinique  or  Guyana,  vaccination  is  not 
recommended  but  could  be  proposed  if  there  is  a  proof  of  documented  virologically-confirmed  past 
dengue infection. 
No  recommendations  were  found  for  the  Netherlands  (Netherlands  Antilles,  Aruba,  Curaçao,  Sint 
Maarten) and Portuguese (Madeira) populations living in dengue endemic areas. 
The WHO recommended a strategy of pre-vaccination screening and vaccination of seropositive persons. 
No specific assay or assay strategy was listed in the recommendations. To maximize vaccine uptake and 
applicability  in  endemic  regions,  a  serological  test,  and  ideally  a  rapid  diagnostic  test,  is  required  for 
serostatus screening. 
Medical need in non-endemic area 
Dengue can affect tourist travelers, business travelers and expatriates, migrants including those visiting 
friends  and  relatives  (VFR),  and  pilgrim;  both  in  adult  and  pediatric  travelers 1.  Vaccination  against 
Dengue could therefore provide a benefit for such specific populations. 
2.1.2.  About the product 
CYD  dengue  vaccine  is  a  tetravalent,  recombinant,  live  attenuated  viral  vaccine.  The  viruses  in  the 
1 Riddell A: Imported dengue fever in East London: a 6-year retrospective observational study. J Travel Med 2017, 24.  
Neuberger A, Turgeman A, Lustig Y, Schwartz E: Dengue fever among Israeli expatriates in Delhi, 2015: implications for dengue 
incidence in Delhi, India. J Travel Med 2016, 23. 
Chen LH, Leder K, Barbre KA, Schlagenhauf P, Libman M, Keystone J et al.: Business travel-associated illness: a GeoSentinel 
analysis. J Travel Med 2018, 25.  
Leder K, Tong S, Weld L, Kain KC, Wilder-Smith A, von Sonnenburg F et al.: Illness in travelers visiting friends and relatives: a 
review of the GeoSentinel surveillance network. Clin Infect Dis 2006, 43:1185-1193.  
Diagne CT, Barry MA, Ba Y, Faye O, Sall AA: Dengue epidemic in touba, senegal: implications for the grand Magal pilgrimage for 
travelers. J Travel Med 2018.  
Rabinowicz S, Schwartz E: Morbidity among Israeli paediatric travellers. J Travel Med 2017, 24. 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 10/44 
 
 
 
 
 
vaccine consist of the replicative engine of the attenuated yellow fever vaccine virus 17D (coding for the 
non-structural proteins and capsid), along with the genes coding for the pre-membrane and envelope 
proteins of each of the 4 wild-type dengue serotypes. 
CYD dengue vaccine consists of a sterile, freeze-dried powder formulation that is reconstituted with a 
sodium chloride solution (0.4% for the single-dose presentation, 0.9% for the multi-dose presentation) 
before injection and does not contain any adjuvant or preservative. Each dose contains 4.5-6.0 log-10 
Cell-Culture Infectious Dose 50% (CCID50) per serotype (as per CCDS and EU Product Information).  
After reconstitution, one dose (0.5 mL) is to be administered by the subcutaneous route. 
2.1.3.  General comments on compliance with GCP guidelines 
All clinical studies evaluating the CYD dengue vaccine complied with the guidelines in force during the 
CDP, such as: the Quality Standards of the International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) guidelines, 
the  Food  and  Drug  Administration  (FDA)  guidelines  for  Good  Clinical  Practice  (GCP),  EU  Directive 
2001/20/EC, and the EMA guidelines on clinical evaluation of new vaccines. 
2.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
No new non-clinical data have been submitted in this application, which was considered acceptable by 
the CHMP. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
No new clinical data were submitted with this application, but supportive literature data. 
2.3.1.  Supportive aspects 
2.3.2.  Introduction 
Since 2002, the MAH undertook an extensive clinical development programme (CDP) in subjects aged 9 
months  through  60  years  in  dengue  endemic  and  non-endemic  regions,  leading  to  marketing 
authorizations  in  21  countries,  including  the  US,  and  in  the  European  Economic  Area.  At  the  time  of 
submission of the dossier for this procedure, Dengvaxia was the only authorised dengue vaccine.  
The  CDP  was  conducted  to  characterize  the  vaccine  in  terms  of  efficacy,  safety  and  immunogenicity 
profiles,  when  assessed  in  different  regions,  in  different  age  groups  and  in  populations  with  various 
degrees of endemicity, from highly endemic to non-endemic. 
There is no established immunological correlate of protection. 
Data from 24 clinical studies (5 Phase I studies, 13 Phase II, and 6 Phase III) allowed the obtention of 
the first marketing authorizations.  
The  2  main pivotal  Phase  3  studies,  performed  in  10  countries  of  southeast Asia  Pacific  (CYD14)  and 
Latin  America  (CYD15),  were  conducted  to  demonstrate  the  efficacy  of  the  vaccine.  Vaccine  efficacy 
against severe dengue was demonstrated in those with prior dengue infection (PDI), whereas the use of 
the vaccine in subjects who did not yet acquire a natural immunity against dengue was associated with 
an identified risk for severe dengue. 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 11/44 
 
 
 
In Europe, at the time of submission of this application, Dengvaxia was indicated for the prevention of 
dengue disease caused by dengue virus serotypes 1, 2, 3, and 4 in individuals 9 to 45 years of age with 
prior dengue virus infection and living in endemic areas. 
In several other countries, the vaccination is not limited to individuals with prior dengue virus infection 
(e.g.  Mexico,  El  Salvador,  Costa  Rica,  Guatemala,  Bolivia,  Cambodia,  Thailand,  Venezuela,  Honduras, 
Myanmar, and Dominican Republic, Paraguay, Bangladesh, Singapore). 
For countries considering vaccination as part of their dengue control programme, WHO recommended a 
pre-vaccination screening as the best strategy. 
Dengue serological assays are thus required to identify individuals who are eligible for vaccination, except 
those with documented PDI. There are currently no approved serological tests to identify individuals with 
PDI. 
The MAH undertook the evaluation of existing dengue IgG assays to identify adequate performant test(s). 
The MAH has also co-developed a RDT, designed for the identification of PDI, in partnership with the 
diagnostic company CTK Biotech. 
2.3.3.  Specification of the indication to Previous dengue infection 
In  the  context  of  the  clinical  development  of  the  CYD  Dengue  vaccine  (hereafter  called  Dengvaxia), 
seropositivity  was  determined  by  the  antibody-mediated  virus  neutralization  by  plaque  reduction 
neutralization  test  (PRNT50),  the  reference  method  according  to  WHO.  Additional  analyses  were 
conducted on the efficacy trials using methods, such as PRNT90 and the anti-dengue NS1 IgG enzyme 
linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) with a threshold of 9 ELISA Unit (EU)/ml or 50 EU/ml (Th9 and 
Th50). 
The  results  of  the  post-hoc  analyses  classifying  the  subjects  with  these  various  methods  (PRNT50, 
PRNT90 and anti-NS1 ELISA Th9 and Th50), showed a protection against VCD cases, hospitalized and 
severe cases in seropositive subjects. 
The  test  positivity  or  seropositivity  criterion  to  determine  the  eligibility  to  receive  the  vaccine  was 
proposed as a predictive, measurable and practical criterion to determine history of past dengue infection 
(PDI) supporting the indication. Further description of the available tests that can potentially be used in 
the context of pre-vaccination screening is provided below. 
The  CHMP  noted  that  Dengvaxia  was  first  intended  to  be  used  in  endemic  countries  for  vaccinating 
infants, children and adults. Results of the pivotal clinical trials indicated that the use of the vaccine in 
subjects  previously  exposed  to  dengue  virus  (seropositives)  was  associated  with  protection  against 
dengue. On the other hand, and importantly, the use of the vaccine in subjects who did not yet acquire 
a natural immunity against dengue virus (seronegatives) was associated with an identified risk for severe 
dengue, which can be potentially fatal. 
In  the  context  of  the  clinical  development  of  the  CYD  dengue  vaccine,  seropositivity  was  defined  by 
PRNT50  measured  in  the  immunogenicity  subset  but  results  were  also  analysed  according  to 
seropositivity classification based on PRNT50 and PRNT90 (measured or imputed) or anti-NS1 IgG ELISA 
(with thresholds of 9 EU/ml or 50 EU/ml) in the NS1 Supplemental analyses. 
The PRNT assay is the gold standard test for identification of previous dengue virus exposure and vaccine 
immunogenicity.  The  validated  PRNT  assay  was  the  core  immunologic  assay  for  measuring  functional 
antibodies able to neutralize dengue virus in studies submitted at the initial MAA. This assay measures 
the serum titre needed for a specified reduction (typically 50%-90%) in virus infectivity of an in vitro 
cell culture incubated with a serial dilution of a test serum. Although gold standard for determining past 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 12/44 
 
 
 
exposure, the assay has limitations, particularly in terms of specificity due to cross-reactivity with other 
flaviviruses. Serological cross-reactivity amongst members of the Flaviviridae family (DENV, Yellow Fever 
(YF), West-Nile virus (WNV), Japanese Encephalitis virus (JEV) and Tick borne encephalitis virus (TBEV)) 
is a well-known problem, although to a lesser extent than with conventional ELISAs. PRNT90 is more 
specific than PRNT50 by decreasing the background serum cross-reactivity among flaviviruses. PRNT90 
is  therefore  associated  with  less  false-positive  dengue  classification  and  less  cross-reactivity  between 
serotypes. 
During the initial MAA, a new quantitative ELISA test based on the detection of dengue NS1-specific IgG 
antibodies as a biomarker of DENV exposure was used (Nascimento 2018). Since Dengvaxia does not 
express  DENV  NS1  but  YFV  NS1  from  the  vaccine  backbone,  measuring  DENV  anti-NS1-specific  IgG 
could then be utilized to evaluate dengue serological status pre- and post-vaccination with Dengvaxia. 
A thorough analysis showed that the DENV anti-NS1 IgG ELISA could be a suitable alternative to Dengue 
PRNT  for  identifying  seronegative  subjects  when  using  the  9  ELISA  Unit  (EU)/mL  threshold.  This 
threshold is near the lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) and minimizes the false negative rate, but does 
result  in  a  relatively  high  false  positive  rate.  By  applying  a  higher  threshold  of  50  EU/mL,  the  false 
positive  rate  is  minimized  and  consequently  those  previously  exposed  to  DENV  are  more  correctly 
identified by limiting the misclassification of those not previously exposed as seropositive. The real rate 
of misclassification is however unknown since specificity and sensitivity were established on the basis of 
samples  classified  as  seropositive  or  seronegative  with  the  imperfect  gold  standard  PRNT.  The  cross-
reactivity  with  other  flaviviruses  remain  to  be  determined,  particularly  with  Zika,  West  Nile  viruses, 
Ilheus virus, Rocio virus, and Murray Valley virus. Importantly, the levels and stability of anti-dengue 
NS1 IgG for longer than 3-4 years after dengue infection remain to be determined. 
Based  on  the  data  from  Phase  3  trials,  Dengvaxia  is  indicated  for  subjects  with  prior  dengue  virus 
infection (approved indication in the EU), and it was clarified in section 4.2 of the SmPC that ‘Previous 
dengue  infection  has  to  be  assessed  before  vaccination  by  laboratory  confirmed  history  of  dengue  or 
through an appropriately validated serological test.’ 
For countries considering vaccination as part of their dengue control programme, WHO recommended a 
pre-vaccination  screening  as  the  best  strategy.  The  testing  to  be  implemented  in  order  to  ascertain 
previous dengue infection prior to vaccination is in the remit of the local Public Health (PH) authorities. 
At  the  time  of  the  initial  MAA,  there  were  few  possibilities  available  to  them.  Knowledge  around  the 
performances of available tests that could be used as screening test before vaccinating subjects, such 
as conventional ELISAs and rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) were limited.  
Thus, there is a gap between the availability of Dengavaxia and its use. As an example, in March 2019, 
the French authorities did not recommend Dengvaxia for people living in La Réunion and Mayotte. For 
subjects living in Guadeloupe, Martinique or Guyana, the vaccination is not recommended but could be 
proposed if there is a proof of documented virologically-confirmed past dengue infection. 
To address this knowledge gap around the tests, the MAH further investigated the performance of the 
available tests that can potentially be used in the context of pre-vaccination screening, and results are 
presented below. Notably, the recommendations about pre-vaccination screening test or strategy tests 
is the responsibility of national health authorities.  
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 13/44 
 
 
 
2.3.4.  Eligibility Criteria for Vaccination 
Evaluation of currently available serotests for the identification of PDI 
Since  the  initial  Marketing  Authorisation  Application,  further  knowledge  on  the  ability  of  available 
serotests  to  detect  PDI  has  been  accrued,  showing  high  levels  of  specificity  (>98%)  and  therefore, 
according  to  the  MAH,  allowing  to  correctly  identify  individuals  who  should  not  be  vaccinated,  i.e. 
seronegative individuals, as detailed below. 
An evaluation of the performance of commercially available dengue IgG serological tests, including four 
rapid  diagnostic  tests  (RDTs)  and  two  conventional  ELISAs  (Bonaparte  2019),  was  performed  by  the 
MAH. The table below presents the diagnostic tests that were evaluated in Bonaparte 2019 (extracted 
from the publication). 
Table 1. Diagnostic tests evaluated (Bonaparte 2019) 
Different types of samples were tested to determine the sensitivity and specificity of the tests and are 
described in the table below (extracted from Bonaparte 2019). 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 14/44 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2. Samples panel for assay evaluation (Bonaparte 2019) 
The  major  conclusion  of  this  evaluation,  as  considered  by  the  MAH,  was  that  all  the  dengue  IgG 
components of the RDTs and one of the two ELISA tests exhibited high specificity > 98% for identifying 
PDI, including in samples collected from individuals not living in endemic areas. In addition, low to no 
cross-reactivity with several flaviviruses was reported in these evaluations (see figures below). 
An additional study evaluated two serotests available in Puerto Rico and provided similar conclusion, i.e.  
high test specificities (≥ 99%) (Bonaparte 2020). The tests evaluated were an IgG/IgM rapid diagnostic 
test (RDT) (Biocan Diagnostics Inc. Canada) and an IgG enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) 
(SciMedx, USA). Samples evaluated were from the same studies than those used in the previous study 
as indicated in the table below. Classification of the samples slightly differs from Bonaparte 2019. 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 15/44 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Sample panels for assay evaluation (Table 1, Bonaparte 2020) 
According  to  the  MAH,  these  findings  (Bonaparte  2019  and  2020)  indicate  that  the  use  of  these 
immunoassays  in  pre-vaccination  screening  would  successfully  minimize  the  risk  of  inadvertently 
vaccinating dengue seronegative individuals. 
Another important conclusion of these evaluations is the modest or moderate performance of RDTs in 
terms of sensitivity (see figure below, from 39.6 to 69.6%), and more precisely as seen in one of the 
exploratory analyses performed, their limited capacity for the detection of lower Ab titers ranging from 
100-500 in PRNT50 (from 0 to 32%) and even the absence of detection of very low titers below 100 in 
PRNT50  (Bonaparte  2019,  Figure  below).  These  findings  indicate  that  currently-available  RDTs  are 
unlikely to detect individuals who have been exposed only once and/or remotely without being boosted 
naturally, or individuals with basal titers of non-specific cross-reactive immunity to other flaviviruses or 
different  pathogens  (Figure  below).  This  also  partially  explains  the  low  level  or  even  the  absence  of 
cross-reactivity  reported  with  RDTs  in  these  evaluations.  Although  these  findings  justify  the  need  to 
improve  the  performance  of  these  proof  of  concept  (POC)  IgG  RDTs  to  detect  a  larger  proportion  of 
seropositive individuals who could benefit from vaccination, they also confirm the low risk of false positive 
results in low to non-endemic transmission settings where low antibody levels are expected. 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 16/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Specificity and sensitivity of selected available serological assay on samples from 
endemic and non-endemic areas 
Figure 2. False-positive rate in dengue-negative samples from individuals positive for other 
flaviviruses 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 17/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Detection of prior dengue infection cases according to dengue PRNT50 titre levels  
As part of the data submitted to support this application, the MAH summarized the performance of the 
RDT that was co-developed by the MAH and CTK Biotech for the identification of past dengue infection, 
through  the  detection  of  anti-dengue  IgG.  The  clinical  evaluation  of  this  new  dengue  IgG  RDT 
demonstrated, according to the MAH, performance characteristics allowing to reliably and safely identify 
people  who  can  benefit  from  dengue  vaccination  with  an  assay  specificity  of  98.0%  (95%  CI:  95.9, 
99.2), a sensitivity of 95.3% (95% CI:91.7, 97.6), a sensitivity for monotypics of 88.1%, a sensitivity 
of 94.4 % (95% CI: 87.5,98.2) for remote (3-4 years) dengue infection, and with minimal to no cross-
reactivity to other flaviviruses (Liberal 2020, poster). 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 18/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. Performance characteristics of the OneSite Dengue IgG RDT (Liberal, extract of the 
poster presented at the ASTMH 2020 Annual meeting) 
The CHMP acknowledged that the MAH performed an evaluation of the performance of 6 commercially 
available dengue IgG serological tests (of around 20 tests are commercialized worldwide), including four 
rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) based on immunochromatography and two conventional ELISAs (published 
in Bonaparte 2019). Most of these data were previously assessed during the initial MAA (05-09-2018 
report). The number of dengue-negative West-Nile- or Zika- positive samples is increased in these final 
results  (n=59  and  41  respectively)  when  compared  to  the  previous  submitted  data  (n=3  and  4 
respectively). The NS1-based IgG assay developed by the MAH was not included in this evaluation. The 
reason for not considering this test as screening test for the detection of previous dengue infection is 
unknown. 
Several limitations to results interpretation were evidenced during the initial assessment  in 2018 and 
were addressed in the study conducted by Bonaparte 2019 such as a better description of the samples 
or analyses of the sensitivity and specificity according to the different sets of reference dengue positive 
samples  (virologically-confirmed  vs  PRNT50,  1-13  months  vs  3-4  years  after  infection)  and  dengue-
negative samples (endemic vs non-endemic).  
Specificity was assessed using 534 dengue-negative serum samples from the US (n = 229) and dengue-
endemic regions (n = 305). The serostatus was determined by PRNT50 for non-endemic region, and by 
PRNT50  and  anti-NS1  IgG  (Th9)  for  endemic  regions.  Samples  for  both  non-endemic  and  endemic 
regions included JE or YF negative and positive samples. 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 19/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sensitivity  was  assessed  using  270  samples  from  recent  (n = 90)  or  remote  (n = 90)  virologically 
confirmed  prior  dengue  cases,  and  dengue  PRNT50-positive  samples  (n = 90).  The  latter  (PRNT50-
positive, no dengue infection documented, endemic region) were divided into 3 groups to better assess 
the test sensitivity (see table describing the sample characteristics). 
Cross-reactivity was assessed in dengue-seronegative samples that were seropositive for YF (n = 57), JE 
(n = 37), WN (n = 59) or Zika (n = 41).  
The CHMP considered that the study results demonstrated that all the dengue IgG components of the 
RDTs  and  one  of  the  two  ELISA  tests  (Panbio)  exhibited  high  specificity  (>  98%),  both  in  samples 
collected from individuals living and not living in endemic areas. However, using the 270 dengue positive 
samples from confirmed recent or remote PDI, the RDTs showed low to moderate sensitivities (40-70%) 
up to 3-4 years after infection. 
Both recent and remote infection were similarly detected but the dengue positivity rates with the RDTs 
or ELISAs declined as PRNT50 levels decreased. Cross-reactivity with other flaviviruses such as JEV, YFV, 
WNV and ZIKV was low for RDTs in contrast to both ELISAs. The RDT from CTK Biotech was the only 
one where no cross-reactivity to any of the 4 flaviviruses was observed. 
Although well-conducted, the Bonaparte study (2019) has several limitations, including some that are 
acknowledged by the authors themselves. 
Cross-reactivity with other flaviviruses such as JEV, YFV, WNV and ZIKV was apparently low for all tests, 
except for the Focus Diagnostics ELISA. For all the tests, this was concluded based on the analysis of a 
reasonable number of samples. The authors noted that JE-positive samples used in the study were from 
subjects who received the inactivated JE vaccine (30–60 days before sample collection), and that there 
was limited information on samples from clinical trials with regard to JE vaccination history or infection. 
It  is  therefore  possible  that  cross-reactivity  in  this  study  may  underestimate  the  cross-reactivity  rate 
arising from vaccination with the live attenuated JE vaccine or from natural JE infection. Additionally, as 
discussed by Bonaparte et al., the cross-reactivity of the assays would need to be further defined using 
sample panels that include patients with other common tropical diseases, including those infected with 
other viruses or microorganisms transmitted by mosquitoes such as Chikungunya, related flaviviruses 
Rocio, Ilheus and Murray Valley, or malaria. Cross-reactivity against the common microorganisms such 
as HIV, HCV, HSV1, CMV, EBV, ParvoB19 would also need to be evaluated (WHO PQ GL). Cross-reactivity 
to tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) should also have been evaluated since vaccination against TBE is more 
and more encouraged in Europe, so growing TBE vaccinated population of EU travellers that may benefit 
(or  not)  from  dengue  vaccination  when  traveling  to  endemic  regions.  Since  it  is  known  that  cross-
reactivity increase with more flavivirus exposure, testing sera from multiple exposed individuals (people 
with multiple different flavivirus infections or people vaccinated for YF, TBE and JE together) would be 
relevant. 
The limited data on viruses/microorganisms cross-reactivity are a limitation for using the tests as pre-
vaccination  screening,  as  false-positive  results  could  lead  to  incorrect  serostatus  determination  and 
consequently to inappropriate vaccination for dengue.  
Sensitivities of the RDTs (40-70%) were lower than those of the ELISAs (≥90 0%). This finding is not 
surprising because RDTs were developed to diagnose acute and actually ill patients with high IgG titres 
and  were  not  designed  to  detect  low  IgG  titres  commonly  observed  with  prior  dengue  infection.  The 
sensitivities of IgG ELISAs reported by Bonaparte et al. were higher than those reported in the publication 
of Rafaat et al. 2019 (56% for one of the tests and 89% for the other one).  
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 20/44 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Summary of commercially available antibody serology kit diagnostic performance 
The dengue positivity rates (sensitivity) of samples with high PRNT50 values were already low for 3 out 
of the 4 RDTs (43-77%). Moreover, it was observed that dengue positivity rates (sensitivity) with the 
ELISA  and  the  RDTs  declined  as  PRNT50  levels  decreased.  Some  samples  (n=23)  with  lower  PRNT50 
values (10-500) were however also negative by both PRNT90 and anti-NS1 IgG ELISA, indicating possible 
miss-classification by PRNT50 (false-seropositive samples). Data were not shown, and it is not clear if 
this applies to samples with PRNT50 values between 10-100 but also to those with values between 100-
500. Nevertheless, this shows that currently available tests may miss a high proportion of individuals 
who  have  been  exposed  only  once  and/or  remotely  without  being  boosted  naturally,  which  is  highly 
relevant for the EU setting. Determination of the sensitivity of the tests in true-seropositive subjects with 
low PRNT50 values is of utmost importance.  
Bonaparte et al. indicated that the sensitivity of the tests assessed in the study would be biased towards 
performance  in  individuals  with  documented,  symptomatic  dengue  infection  (such  population 
representing 2/3 of the inclusion). However, the majority of true-seropositive individuals that would be 
vaccinated  would  have  likely  experienced  asymptomatic  infection  sometime  in  the  past.  It  is  possible 
that antibody titres to dengue may be lower in the context of asymptomatic infection.  
In addition, Bonaparte et al. reported that the PRNT50 dengue-seropositive reference panel more likely 
corresponded to samples from individuals who experienced more than one dengue infection and, thus, 
may have also resulted in some overestimation of the sensitivity than would otherwise be representative 
of populations with higher proportions of individuals who have experienced only one dengue infection.  
Both recent and remote infection were similarly detected but, as indicated by the authors, no conclusions 
can however be drawn regarding detection of exposure to dengue 5 years or more previously. Even if it 
is acknowledged that anti-dengue IgG responses are reported to be long lived, the adequate detection 
of such samples remains to be proven. 
A second study retrospectively evaluated the performance of two tests used in Puerto Rico (one ELISA 
and one RDT) and confirmed the apparent high specificity of these immunoassays. The samples used for 
these evaluations were similar than those used in the study of Bonaparte 2019.  
As  indicated  by  the  authors,  prospective  confirmation  of  performance  characteristics  in  conditions 
replicating field use (endemic settings, targeted age) would be important to complement the work. 
Rodriguez-Barraquer et al. also argue that, if a key goal of pre-vaccination screening is to minimize harm 
to seronegative individuals, sensitivity and specificity might not be the most useful target metrics for 
assay development but, the PPV makes more sense, as this value directly quantifies the probability that 
a person who tests positive is truly seropositive, or the probability that they have been misclassified (1-
PPV).  
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 21/44 
 
 
 
 
 
Because  Bonaparte  et  al.  2019  found  that,  in  general,  dengue  IgG  RDTs  were  more  specific  and  less 
cross-reactive than ELISAs (but ELISAs were more sensitive in identifying PDI), the MAH concluded that 
currently available RDTs could be tools for rapid and safe pre-vaccination screening until improved RDTs 
with increased sensitivity for low IgG levels become available. This was not fully endorsed but will not 
be discussed in depth in the context of this assessment, as the choice of the testing strategy relies on 
local Public Health authorities.  
The  CHMP  acknowledged  that  with  the  very  high  specificity  of  RDTs,  a  high  PPV  could  potentially  be 
reached and hence the risk of vaccinating false-seropositives could potentially be low. Nevertheless, as 
PPV highly depends on the pre-test probability, with a specificity of 98% and a sensitivity of 50%, the 
risk of inadvertently vaccinating naïve subjects remains high if the pre-test probability is low (for ex. 
with a pre-test probability of 5%, as much as 43% of the vaccinated seropositive subjects would actually 
be naïve). Therefore, in contrast with the MAH proposal, if RDTs may be appropriate for highly endemic 
areas, this is not the case for areas of low endemicity/non endemic where much more specific approaches 
will likely be implemented by PH authorities, such as using several tests in series, or relying on an history 
of virologically-confirmed dengue (as illustrated for Guadeloupe, Martinique or Guyana).  
Moreover, the current RDTs have sensitivities of approximatively 50% which means that half of those 
with a prior dengue infection would test negative and thus would be wrongly excluded from vaccination 
and not be benefiting from the protection it provides (Hunsperger et al. 2019).The cost-effectiveness of 
pre-vaccination  strategy  which  such  test  will  also  enter  into  consideration  before  initiation  mass 
campaign vaccination. 
Hunsperger  et  al.  also  underlined  that  the  low  sensitivity  of  RDTs  would  produce  negative  predictive 
values (NPV) that are highly influenced by the prevalence of prior dengue infection in a given population 
and hence the seropositivity rate in that population. For example, over 80% of those who tested negative 
on an RDT with a 50% sensitivity would be incorrect. The impact of the seropositive rate in the NPV also 
indicates that RDTs produce more informative negative results in dengue endemic settings but with low 
seroprevalence (approx. 20%) without significant change to the PPV.  
The figure (by Hunsperger, 2019) below illustrates the above considerations. The graph represents the 
PPV  and  NPV  in  populations  with  different  baseline  seroprevalence  rate.  Data  calculated  using  a 
sensitivity of 50% and specificity of 99%, which are representative of the findings of Bonaparte 2019, 
are shown. 
Figure 5: The PPV and NPV of RDTs in populations with different baseline seroprevalence 
rate. Data calculated using a sensitivity of 50% and specificity of 99%, which are 
representative of the findings of Bonaparte et al. (in press), are shown 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 22/44 
 
 
 
  
 
The performance characteristics of the RDT co-developed by the MAH with CTK Biotech were provided. 
Results were only published in the form of a poster presented at the ASTMH annual meeting 2020, and 
not (yet) as a manuscript in a peer-reviewed journal. Both sensitivity and specificity were high. Cross-
reactivity was characterized on a broader panel of samples than for the other tests. As mentioned for 
the other tests, cross-reactivity against related flaviviruses Rocio, Ilheus and Murray Valley, or against 
TBE should also have been relevant. 
Post-hoc Evaluation of Vaccine Efficacy in Tested Positive Subjects 
These recent evaluations were completed by a post-hoc evaluation of the vaccine efficacy (VE) of the 
CYD  dengue  vaccine  in  seropositive  individuals  identified  using  the  same  dengue  IgG  immunoassays 
previously  evaluated,  except  one  RDT  which  was  no  longer  commercialized  (Bio-Rad,  RDT  Dengue 
IgG/IgA).  
The table below extracted from the abstract of DiazGranados 2020 summarizes the characteristics of the 
different immunoassays used in the study. 
Table 5. Characteristics of dengue immunoassays used in the study (DiazGranados 2020) 
The samples used were baseline samples from participants in the immunogenicity subsets of the Phase 
3 CYD14 and CYD15 efficacy trials. The table below summarizes the sample classification.  
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 23/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6. Algorithm for classification of reference dengue serostatus (Table 2, DiazGranados 
2020) 
The outcomes of the analysis confirmed that subjects aged 2 to 16 years who were identified as dengue 
seropositive  by  the  immunoassays  were  protected  against  VCD  following  vaccination  with  the  CYD 
dengue vaccine, with a high VE (over 25 months post-dose 1) against symptomatic VCD across all five 
immunoassays (83–90%), as well as against hospitalized VCD (73–92%) (over 6 years post-dose 1), 
and  severe  VCD  (73-100%)  (over  6  years  post-dose  1).  The  same  high  specificity  (≥  98%  for  all 
immunoassays  apart  from  one  RDT)  and  modest  sensitivity  (around  50%)  were  reported  for  the 
evaluated RDTs, as previously assessed. 
The  CHMP  acknowledged  the  performed  post-hoc  evaluation  of  the  VE  of  the  CYD  dengue  vaccine  in 
seropositive individuals identified using the above-mentioned 5 dengue IgG immunoassays, except one 
RDT (Bio-Rad). Samples used were baseline samples from participants in the immunogenicity subsets 
of  the  Phase  3  CYD14  and  CYD15  efficacy  trials.  VE  for  symptomatic  virologically-confirmed  dengue 
(VCD) regardless of severity and serotype in all test(+) subjects 2-16 years of age during active phase 
FU or the entire 6 years of FU period was calculated. VE was estimated in test(+) subjects using a Cox 
regression  model  with  the  treatment  group  and  study  as  fixed  effects,  with  corresponding  95%  CI 
calculated by the exact binomial method (Clopper-Pearson method). 
Samples were classified according to PRNT and anti-NS1 IgG ELISA results. Both PRNT50 and PRNT90 
and both anti-NS1 IgG thresholds of 9 and of 50 were combined to determine the serostatus as much 
as  correctly  possible.  This  reference  classification  of  the  samples  is  endorsed.  However,  neither  the 
number  of  subjects  classified  as  seropositives,  nor  the  concordance  of  each  test  with  the  reference 
classification were presented.  
The  VE  against  symptomatic  VCD  across  all  five  immunoassays  (83–90%),  against  hospitalized  VCD 
(73–92%) (over 6 years post-dose 1), and against severe VCD (73–100%) (over 6 years post-dose 1) 
was  variable,  reflecting  the  difference  in  the  performance  of  the  tests  (dependent  of  the  number  of 
subjects  included  in  the  analysis).  The  different  VE  values  were  not  given  for  the  2-16  yo  subjects 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 24/44 
 
 
 
 
classified as seropositive based on the reference status. 
95% CI interval of the VE against symptomatic VCD up to M25 in test(+) subjects 2-16 yoa were wider 
for RDTs compared to ELISAs. This is probably due to the lower number of subjects tested positive with 
the RDTs. 
The lower number of seropositive subjects by the RDTs confirmed the modest sensitivity of the RDTs 
observed in the Bonaparte studies (2019 and 2020). The One site RDT’s sensitivity was lower than the 
one found in Bonaparte 2019. High specificity (>98.5%) was found for four of the five assays.  
The authors conclude that ‘These findings indicate that use of these existing serotests for pre-vaccination 
screening  would  enable  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  CYD-TDV  and  could  thus  serve  as  suitable 
temporizing  tools  to  inform  vaccination  decisions  until  more  sensitive,  point-of-care  tests  become 
available.’  
The CHMP, however, considered that the data provided are not meant to support such conclusion. The 
data only allow concluding that efficacy varies according to test used, which is expected as the proportion 
of false positive varies. The data do not provide reassurance on the safe use of Dengvaxia. The PPV may 
remain  too  low,  depending  on  the  seroprevalence/pre-test  probability  of  past  dengue.  In  addition, 
because of this very low sensitivity of the RDTs, a large part of the population who might benefit from 
vaccination  will  not  be  detected.  Implementation  of  a  screening  before  vaccination  would  lead  to  a 
vaccination of around only half of the people that could benefit from it, and still with the uncertainty to 
vaccinate false-seropositive individuals. 
2.3.5.  Use of the Vaccine in Individuals Not Living in Endemic Area 
The condition living in endemic area was initially specified in the indication based on the rationale that 
the vaccine was developed to be used mainly in endemic countries, knowing that in these countries the 
level of disease transmission can vary from low to high intensity. After confirmation of a safety signal in 
seronegative subjects and the demonstration of a positive benefit/risk in seropositive individuals, this 
limitation  was  kept  in  the  indication  as  a  risk  minimization  measure.  The  reason  was  the  limited 
knowledge  around  the  performances  of  available  tests  to  correctly  identify  eligible  individuals  to 
vaccination,  i.e.  seropositive  individuals,  and  more  importantly,  to  correctly  identify  individuals  who 
should not be vaccinated, i.e. seronegative individuals.  
As detailed above, further knowledge has now been accrued on available serotests which all showed high 
levels of specificity (>98%) and their ability to correctly identify seronegative individuals who should not 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 25/44 
 
 
 
 
receive the CYD Dengue vaccine, therefore (in the view of the MAH), limiting the risk of inadvertently 
vaccinating false-positive individuals. 
In  addition  to  these  data,  modelling  results  were  published  on  the  impact  of  screen  and  vaccinate 
approach  in  different  endemic  settings,  and  a  literature  search  was  conducted  to  assess  the  risk  of 
dengue infection in those not living in endemic areas. These are described in the following sections to 
further support the use of the vaccine in some individuals not living in endemic areas. 
Modelling results of the screen and vaccinate approach 
The potential impact of a ‘screen and vaccinate’ approach was assessed based on a previously reported 
transmission  model  and  added,  for  the  screening  part,  three  rapid  diagnostic  tests  with  identical 
specificity  (99%)  but  alternative  sensitivities  (50-70-90%)  in  the  detection  of  PDI,  in  several  dengue 
endemic settings, at the population and at the individual levels (Coudeville 2018). 
The  results  show  that  for  a  given  level  of  vaccine  and  test  performances,  the  effect  of  a  screen  and 
vaccinate approach on the expected risk of an individual to develop dengue depends on both previous 
dengue  exposure  (i.e.  pre-test  probability,  which  is  the  probability  of  being  seropositive  before 
screening), and on the level of future exposure to dengue (i.e. the transmission level an individual will 
be exposed to in the future). Figure 6 below shows the risk reduction expressed in terms of the number 
of dengue hospitalizations avoided, for those vaccinated upon positive screening over a 10-year period 
for an RDT with a sensitivity at 70%, where it is assumed that there is only direct protection conferred 
by the vaccine. In the vast majority of cases, where the pre-test probability is >= 1%, regardless of the 
transmission setting, the risk of hospitalization for individuals tested positive was reduced with the screen 
and vaccinate approach. Similar results were observed for severe dengue. According to this model no 
increased risk of symptomatic dengue, regardless of the levels of dengue endemicity, was observed in 
tested-positive vaccinated individuals (Coudeville 2018). 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 26/44 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Absolute risk reduction (per 1000 individuals in dengue hospitalization of a screen 
and vaccinate strategy per individual vaccinated according to the pre-test probability and 
level of exposure to dengue. 
In  the  view  of  the  MAH,  that  these  results  show  that  across  all  settings,  when  individuals  are  tested 
seropositive  with  a  test  showing  a  specificity  of  99%  and  a  sensitivity  of  70%,  the  risk  of  dengue 
hospitalization and severe dengue is lower if they are vaccinated compared to their risk if not vaccinated. 
These results apply to a wide range of past exposure to dengue infection rates as low as 1%, showing 
that even individuals with a very low probability of being tested seropositive, such as those not living in 
endemic areas but who lived in endemic areas or spent significant time in endemic areas, would benefit 
from the screen and vaccinate approach. The magnitude of the reduction depends on the future exposure 
to  dengue;  therefore,  this  parameter  has  to  be  also  taken  into  account  when  deciding  to  screen  an 
individual not living in endemic areas. 
The CHMP considered that the results described above were not found in the referenced publication of 
Coudeville et al. of 2018 but in a paper published in 2020. The referenced study rather described analyses 
that  explored  the  benefits  and  risks  of  dengue  vaccination  according  to  baseline  serostatus.  In  the 
publication  of  2020,  Coudeville  et  al.  specifically  focus  on  the  potential  impact  of  various  screen  and 
vaccinate strategies. 
The  analysis  was  based  on  the  previously  reported  age-structured,  host-vector  and  serotype-specific 
deterministic  compartmental  transmission  model,  which  assessed  the  outcomes  of  dengue  vaccine  at 
individual  and  population  levels  (Coudeville  2016  and  2018).  The  analysis  also  uses  data  from  the 
Bonaparte’s  assessment  of  available  RDTs  used  to  determine  prior  dengue  infection.  Three  RDT 
characteristic  profiles  were  chosen  to  reflect  both  current  and  possible  future  test  performance  (for 
example an ‘RDT 70%’ scenario corresponding to a screening test for which the sensitivity was set at 
70% and the specificity at 99%). The impact of vaccination considered settings representing different 
levels of transmission intensity, ranging from 10% (very low) to 90% (very high). Three levels of disease 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 27/44 
 
 
 
 
 
severity  (dengue-related  hospitalization,  severe  dengue,  and  symptomatic  dengue)  were  considered. 
The authors considered strategies covering 80% of the age cohort targeted i.e. vaccination is given to 
the  all  individuals  detected  seropositive  among  the  80%  of  the  age  cohort  screened  for  their  dengue 
serostatus. The time horizon considered in these models was 10 years. 
The CHMP considered that the study shows that, across all settings, when a subject is detected as being 
seropositive through screening, their risk of dengue hospitalization and severe dengue is lower if they 
are vaccinated compared to their risk if not vaccinated. The magnitude of this reduction varies according 
to the level of future exposure to dengue. 
This  result  is  a  direct  consequence  of  the  assumed  high  specificity  of  the  RDT  used  (99%).  The 
interpretation of the findings is thus limited by the above-mentioned limitations on the accuracy of the 
test performance. 
The vaccination of people living in non-endemic area will be considered on a case by-case basis, since 
pre-  and  post-vaccination  exposure  are  highly  variable  from  one  individual  to  another  and  difficult  to 
ascertain.  
The CHMP agreed that seropositive subjects, even those living in low endemic areas, might benefit from 
vaccination. However, this requires an adequately validated test, with very high specificity to ensure a 
very high PPV (See also below). 
Literature Review of People not living in endemic areas and travelling to dengue endemic areas 
A literature review was performed to further assess the burden of dengue in those not living in endemic 
areas  and  who  have  likely  been  exposed  to  the  virus  while  residing  or  working  in  endemic  area.  The 
literature search was carried out in May 2020 on Embase, with the following query strategy. 
Figure 7. Literature query strategy 
A year restriction focusing only on papers from 2010 (because of the changing dengue situation change 
across ages) and on French and English languages was applied. 
This search led to 383 publications, to which 3 other publications of interest not found by the query were 
added. The selection was made based on the following the flow chart:  
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 28/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Flow chart of the selection of publication 
The literature search identified 18 publications of interest from 2010 onwards, which allowed to identify 
an unmet medical need as regards to dengue prevention in these populations. 
Among those, individuals who were born in endemic areas and moved to reside in non-endemic countries 
showed  the  highest  rates  of  dengue  seropositivity  or  PDI,  from  approximately  20%  up  to  95.8% 
depending on endemicity of the country of origin and depending on the age, which is consistent with 
seroprevalence generally reported in endemic areas (Humphrey 2019). For instance, a seroprevalence 
study  conducted  on  a  convenience  sample  of  first-generation  Surinamese  immigrants  living  in  the 
Netherlands,  reported  a  rate  of  81.3%  probably  comparable  to  Surinamese  inhabitants  (Overbosch 
2014). 
Individuals who were born in non-endemic settings and who resided or stayed without interruption for 
long periods, several months or years, in endemic areas were also associated with level of seropositivity 
or PDI comparable to that from endemic countries. For instance, a study conducted by Sanchez-Vegas 
et al. which enrolled 600 participants in travel clinics of the Boston Area, to assess the prevalence of 
dengue infection in individuals established in non-endemic settings and who have lived in or travelled to 
dengue
endemic  countries,  suggest  that  dengue  pre-test  probability  can  be  substantial,  especially  in 
individuals who have lived in or travelled for ≥ 1 year to dengue-endemic countries. Anti
dengue virus 
IgG  was  identified  in  40%  of  these  individuals,  versus  51%  in  the  group  of  people  born  in  endemic 
countries and 6.9% in the group of people who travelled for ≥ 2 weeks but < 1 year. Overall, 19% of 
‐
the entire study population had a positive dengue serology. In this study, individuals born in non-endemic 
countries and/or who have lived in or travelled for ≥ 1 year to endemic settings displayed background 
rates of past-dengue infection comparable to those seen classically in endemic areas. 
Overall,  studies  addressing  the  potential  risk  of  PDI  in  individuals  living  in  non-endemic  transmission 
settings reported rates of IgM and/or IgG dengue  serologies in the range of 6-40%, which confirmed 
that  there  is  an  unmet  medical  need  in  populations  living  in  non-endemic  areas  with  a  probability  of 
having  had  previous  dengue  infection,  such  as  expatriates  or  people  working  for  recurrent  long-stay 
missions in endemic areas (see Table below). 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 29/44 
‐
 
 
 
 
Table 7. Dengue seroprevalence in population from non-endemic countries with long-term 
stay in dengue endemic region 
The MAH concluded that this literature review supports the extension of the use of the vaccine to test-
positive individuals not living in endemic areas, who have likely been in contact with dengue virus (e.g. 
individuals  who  lived  before  or  had  recurrent  stay  in  endemic  areas)  considering  that  their  level  of 
seropositivity or PDI is comparable to individuals from endemic countries, addressing an unmet medical 
need. 
The CHMP acknowledged the MAH’s literature review to further assess the burden of dengue in those not 
living  in  endemic  areas  and  who  have  likely  been  exposed  to  the  virus  while  residing  or  working  in 
endemic area. 
The query strategy for the literature review by the MAH was considered overall appropriate and that the 
findings of the final selected publications were consistent. 
Overall, the seropositivity rate in people not living in endemic areas and travelling to dengue endemic 
areas ranges from 6-40% but can also be higher when focusing in very particular populations such as 
expatriates with long-term stay. The seropositivity rate in people born in endemic areas and who moved 
to reside in non-endemic countries ranges from 20% to 96%. This confirms, as indicated by the MAH, 
an unmet medical need in these types of population. 
As already discussed during the initial MAA, it is agreed that vaccination may be beneficial to specific 
population of individuals not living in endemic areas and travelling regularly to dengue endemic area, 
such as health care workers or any workers of non-governmental organisations. Not only travellers with 
laboratory confirmed dengue history could be vaccinated with Dengvaxia, but potentially also travellers 
with an history of travel in dengue endemic area, even if dengue infection was asymptomatic provided 
an adequate pre-vaccination testing strategy is applied. 
The vaccination of people living in non-endemic area will be considered on a case by-case basis, based 
on the recommendations from local Public Health authorities. Many variables can influence the previous 
exposure to dengue (and hence the pre-test probability) such as the country of origin, the number of 
months/years  spent  in  the  endemic  area,  the  age,  the  seroprevalence  of  travel  area,  the  frequency 
and/or  duration  of  the  travel.  True  seroprevalence  of  an  area  is  difficult  to  ascertain  (highly  locally 
variable, variable over time, variable according to demographic characteristics) and a true estimate of 
the probability to have been infected by dengue virus several years after might be challenging. All these 
parameters  make  the  evaluation  of  the  PPV  of  a  test  difficult/uncertain  for  the  above-mentioned 
populations.  A  test  with  very  high  specificity  (approaching  100%),  and  adequately  determined,  is 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 30/44 
 
 
 
 
therefore required. 
Effective  strategies  could  nevertheless  be  developed  to  correctly  identify  travellers  eligible  for 
vaccination. A multiple testing strategy resulting in a specificity approaching 100% might be developed 
and/or novel tests using new technologies allowing for a higher specificity. Test strategies with sequential 
testing  with  different  RDTs  and/or  ELISAs  and/or  PRNT  (where  possible)  to  get  the  highest  possible 
confidence  could  be  developed.  Therefore,  it  is  possible  that  in  the  future,  approaches  for  testing 
individuals living in non-endemic countries prior to vaccination may be included in the local Public Health 
recommendations. Till that time, the Public Health bodies may limit vaccination to those individuals who 
had previous laboratory confirmed dengue.  
Finally, as also already pointed out during assessment of the initial MAA, the current 3-dose schedule 
(with  the  current  interval  between  doses)  renders  the  use  of  Dengvaxia  in  a  travel  medicine  setting 
difficult,  and  the  results  of  studies  on  alternative  schedules  would  need  to  be  available  before  this 
approach becomes more widely available. 
2.3.6.  Clinical safety 
No  new  safety  data  were  submitted  with  this  application.  The  CHMP  invited  the  MAH  to  describe  the 
safety database for individuals living in non-endemic areas (size, age range, serostatus at baseline). 
As requested, the MAH provided a description of the safety database for individuals living in non-endemic 
areas, including size, age range, and serostatus at baseline.  
A total of 879 individuals, aged 6-60 years, living in non-endemic areas, were exposed to at least one 
injection of a tetravalent CYD dengue vaccine (with the final formulation and schedule) in studies CYD12 
and CYD51 conducted in the US, and CYD17 conducted in Australia. From these 879 individuals, 71 were 
seropositive (as assessed by PRNT50), 806 were seronegative, and 2 were undetermined. 
The  following  statement  from  the  MAH  was  endorsed  by  the  CHMP:  ‘Although  the  low  number  of 
seropositive subjects living in non-endemic areas does not allow to draw relevant conclusions, no safety 
signals were detected in this specific group.’ 
2.3.7.  Discussion 
The  efficacy  of  the  Dengvaxia  vaccine  against  dengue  disease  was  demonstrated  in  those  individuals 
with prior dengue infection, whereas the use of the vaccine in subjects who did not yet acquire a natural 
immunity against dengue was associated with an identified risk for severe dengue. 
As  a  result,  Dengvaxia  is  currently  indicated  for  the  prevention  of  dengue  disease  caused  by  dengue 
virus serotypes 1, 2, 3, and 4 in individuals 9 to 45 years of age with prior dengue virus infection and 
living in endemic areas (EU indication). 
For countries considering vaccination as part of their dengue control programme, WHO recommended a 
pre-vaccination screening as the best strategy. 
The testing to be implemented in order to ascertain previous dengue infection prior to vaccination is in 
the  remit  of  the  local  Public  Health  authorities.  At  initial  MA,  there  were  few  possibilities  available  to 
them. Knowledges around the performances of available tests that could be used as screening test before 
vaccinating subjects, such as conventional ELISAs and rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) were limited.  
Therefore, there is a gap between the availability of Dengvaxia and its use. As example, in March 2019, 
the French authorities did not recommend Dengvaxia for people living in La Réunion and Mayotte. For 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 31/44 
 
 
 
subjects living in Guadeloupe, Martinique or Guyana, the vaccination is not recommended but could be 
proposed if there is a proof of documented laboratory-confirmed past dengue infection.  
To address this knowledge gap around the tests, the MAH further investigated the performance of the 
commercially  available  tests  that  can  potentially  be  used  in  the  context  of  pre-vaccination  screening. 
The MAH has also co-developed a RDT for the identification of past dengue infection (PDI), through the 
detection  of  anti-dengue  IgG.  The  MAH  also  presented  published  modelling  results  on  the  impact  of 
screen and vaccinate approach (with various assay performance) in different endemic settings. Although 
important  to  follow,  and  as  above-mentioned,  the  recommendations  about  pre-vaccination  screening 
test or test strategies are the responsibility of the national health authorities. Therefore, these data were 
not assessed in depth, and are not considered to weigh in the conclusion of this report. 
Both studies of Bonaparte et al. demonstrated that, in general, dengue IgG RDTs were more specific and 
less  cross-reactive  than  ELISAs.  ELISAs  were  more  sensitive  in  identifying  PDI  than  RDTs.  Several 
limitations  were  evidenced,  including  with  regards  to  cross-reactivity  evaluation.  Although  better 
characterized,  limitations  with  regards  to  cross-reactivity  evaluation  also  applies  to  the  RDT  co-
developed by the MAH and the CTK Biotech. The identified limitations preclude the use of the tests as 
pre-vaccination screening, as false-positive results could lead to incorrect serostatus determination and 
consequently to inappropriate vaccination for dengue.  
Overall, a screening test should be both highly sensitive and highly specific to minimize false positives 
and  negatives.  Both  positive  predictive  value  (PPV)  and  negative  predictive  value  (NPV)  are  more 
meaningful indicators because they combine positive and negative pre-test probability and performance 
characteristics of a given test. Tests with a given sensitivity and specificity are more likely to misclassify 
truly seronegatives in a setting where low dengue virus transmission occurs (i.e. low seroprevalence) 
than in a setting with high transmission, simply because the pre-test probabilities are lower. For example, 
in populations where the seroprevalence is very low (5%), even tests with very high specificity (98%, 
sensitivity of 50%) will misclassify 43% of those who test positive. While PPV constraints test accuracy 
in  low  prevalence  settings,  NPV  constraints  do  so  for  high  prevalence  settings.  Specificity  is  a  higher 
priority  than  sensitivity  given  the  identified  increased  risk  of  severe  and/or  hospitalized  dengue  for 
inadvertently vaccinated dengue naïve individuals.  
These considerations are directly related to the main proposal of the MAH, which was the extension of 
the indication to individuals with test-confirmed previous dengue infection, i.e. either living in endemic 
or in non-endemic countries. 
The  MAH  conducted  a  literature  search  to  assess  the  risk  of  dengue  infection  in  those  not  living  in 
endemic areas. 
Overall, the seropositivity rate in people not living in endemic areas and travelling to dengue endemic 
areas ranges from 6-40% but can also be higher when focusing in very particular populations such as 
expatriates with long-term stay. The seropositivity rate in people born in endemic areas and who moved 
to reside in non-endemic countries ranges from 20% to 96%. This constitutes an unmet medical need 
in these types of populations.  
As already pointed out as part of the assessment of the initial MAA, it is agreed that vaccination may be 
beneficial  to  specific  population  of  individuals  not  living  in  endemic  areas  and  travelling  regularly  to 
dengue endemic area, such as health care workers or any workers of non-governmental organisations. 
Not only travellers with laboratory-confirmed dengue history could be vaccinated with Dengvaxia, but 
potentially also travellers with an history of travel in dengue endemic area, even if dengue infection was 
asymptomatic/not detected provided an adequate pre-vaccination testing strategy is applied. 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 32/44 
 
 
 
The vaccination of people living in non-endemic area will be considered on a case by-case basis, based 
on the recommendations from local Public Health authorities.  
Many variables can influence the previous exposure to dengue, and hence the pre-test probability, such 
as  the  country  of  origin,  the  number  of  months/years  spent  in  the  endemic  area,  the  age,  the 
seroprevalence of travel area, the frequency and/or duration of the travel. True seroprevalence of an 
area is difficult to ascertain (highly locally variable, variable over time, variable according to demographic 
characteristics)  and  a  true  estimate  of  the  probability  to  have  been  infected  by  dengue  virus  several 
years  after  might  be  challenging.  All  these  parameters  make  the  evaluation  of  the  PPV  of  a  test 
difficult/uncertain for the above-mentioned populations. A test with very high specificity (approaching 
100%), and adequately determined, is therefore required. 
Effective  strategies  could  nevertheless  be  developed  to  correctly  identify  travellers  eligible  for 
vaccination.  Test  strategies  with  sequential  testing  with  different  RDTs  and/or  ELISAs  and/or  PRNT 
(where  possible)  to  get  the  highest  possible  confidence  (approaching  100%  specificity)  could  be 
developed. Novel tests using new technologies allowing for a higher specificity could also be envisaged. 
Therefore,  it  is  possible  that  in  the  future,  approaches  for  testing  individuals  living  in  non-endemic 
countries  prior  to  vaccination  may  be  included  in  the  local  Public  Health  recommendations.  Until  that 
time, the Public Health bodies may limit vaccination to those individuals who had previous virologically-
confirmed dengue.   
Limited safety data following vaccination with the CYD dengue vaccine (final formulation) of individuals 
living  in  non-endemic  countries  are  available  from  the  early  phase  development  and  did  not  raise 
concern. At the time of the initial MA, it was concluded that the safety profile of the CYD dengue vaccine 
was acceptable within 6 months post any injection in all the populations studied, i.e. in all age groups 
and regions (non-endemic, endemic Asia Pacific, or endemic Latin America), and irrespective of gender 
and dengue, JE or YF status at baseline based on post-hoc analyses.  
It  is  unclear  to  which  extent  efficacy,  as  well  as  immunogenicity,  demonstrated  in  highly  endemic 
countries  can  be  extrapolated  to  areas  of  low  endemicity,  and  to  non-endemic  areas.  Efficacy  and 
immunogenicity levels in subjects living in non-endemic areas but who have been exposed in the past 
are likely depending on the level of exposure they experienced. Pre-existing immunity to dengue virus 
and other flaviviruses may affect immunogenicity and efficacy levels (cross-protection). Overall, higher 
baseline dengue virus-neutralizing Ab GMTs were associated with higher PD3 GMTs. Hence, there is an 
uncertainty around the level of efficacy and immunogenicity in EU vaccine recipients. Since there is no 
immune  correlate  of  protection,  the  clinical  relevance  of  the  vaccine–induced  immunogenicity  is  not 
known. 
The long-term efficacy of Dengvaxia in travellers residing in non-endemic areas might also differ from 
the one derived from endemic area and might vary among the diverse population of travellers. The effect 
of and adequate timing for a booster dose is unknown. The risk of severe dengue disease due to waning 
protection against dengue disease over time is included in the safety concern as important potential risk 
in the RMP.  
Finally,  the  current  3-dose  schedule  (with  the  current  interval  between  doses)  renders  the  use  of 
Dengvaxia in a travel medicine setting difficult. 
2.3.8.  Conclusions 
With this application, the MAH proposed a broader indication to vaccinate individual 9-45 yo with prior 
dengue  virus  infection  regardless  of  geographical  considerations  (i.e.  living  in  endemic  areas  or  not). 
The proposed indication addresses the unmet medical need for specific populations living in non-endemic 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 33/44 
 
 
 
areas (such  as travellers, expatriates  or migrants  with high probability of previous dengue infection). 
The proposed indication is endorsed.  
Dengvaxia is indicated for the prevention of dengue disease caused by dengue virus serotypes 1, 2, 3 
and  4  in  individuals  9  to  45  years  of  age  with  test-confirmed  previous  dengue  infection  prior  dengue 
virus infection and living in endemic areas. 
There is an identified risk of severe and/or hospitalized dengue for individuals not previously infected by 
dengue  virus.  The  safety  of  Dengvaxia  is  highly  dependent  on  the  approaches  used  to  identify  prior 
dengue  infection  before  vaccination.  Recommendations  for  screening  before  vaccination  have  been 
added  in  section  4.2  of  the  SmPC  to  minimize  the  risk  of  a  false  positive  test.  The  approaches  to  be 
implemented in order to ascertain previous dengue infection prior to vaccination is in the remit of the 
local Public Health authorities. It is not known how these recommendations will evolve. 
There is an uncertainty around the level of efficacy and immunogenicity in EU vaccine recipients.  
Persistence  of  efficacy  is even  more  uncertain.  It  was  shown  in  endemic  area  that  efficacy  decreases 
starting one year after the last dose, and appears to be low or absent thereafter. In addition, the long-
term efficacy of Dengvaxia in travellers residing in non-endemic areas might differ from the one derived 
from endemic area and might vary among the diverse population of travellers. The effect of and adequate 
timing for booster dose(s) is unknown.  
2.4.  Update of the Product information 
As a result of this variation, sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1 (the latter upon request from the CHMP) of 
the SmPC are being updated to modify the approved therapeutic indication to include conditions for the 
eligibility to pre-vaccination serostatus screening. The Package Leaflet (PL) is updated accordingly. 
Changes are  summarised  below. New text is shown as bold underlined and deleted text marked as 
strikethrough. 
- SmPC 
Section 4.1: 
Dengvaxia is indicated for the prevention of dengue disease caused by dengue virus serotypes 1, 2, 3 
and 4 in individuals 9 to 45 years of age with test-confirmed previous dengue infection prior dengue 
virus infection and living in endemic areas. 
Section 4.2 (under ‘Method of administration’):  
Dengvaxia  should  only  be  administered  to  individuals  with  a  previous  dengue  infection. 
Previous  dengue  infection  must  be  confirmed  by  a  test,  either  documented  in  the  medical 
history or performed prior to vaccination. 
Previous  dengue  infection  has  to  be  assessed  before  vaccination  by  laboratory  confirmed  history  of 
dengue or through an appropriately validated serological test (see section 4.4). 
Section 4.4: 
Traceability  
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 34/44 
 
 
 
 
 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch 
number of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Prior to vaccination 
Hypersensitivity 
Appropriate medical treatment and supervision must always be readily available in the event 
of an anaphylactic reaction following administration of the vaccine. 
Vaccination should be preceded by a review of the individual's medical history (in particular, previous 
vaccinations and possible adverse reactions which occurred after vaccination). 
The  tip  caps  of  the  prefilled  syringes  contain  a  natural  rubber  latex  derivative,  which  may 
cause allergic reactions in latex sensitive. 
Intercurrent illness 
Administration  of  Dengvaxia  must  be  postponed  in  individuals  suffering  from  moderate  to 
severe febrile or acute disease. 
Syncope  
Syncope  (fainting)  can  occur  following,  or  even  before,  any  vaccination  as  a  psychogenic 
response  to  injection  with  a  needle.  Procedures  should  be  in  place  to  prevent  injury  from 
falling and to manage syncopal reactions. 
Protection 
A protective immune response with Dengvaxia may not be elicited in all vaccinees. It is recommended 
to continue personal protection measures against mosquito bites after vaccination. 
Special patient groups 
Individuals  who  have  not  been  previously  infected  by  dengue  virus  or  for  whom  this  information  is 
unknown 
Prior dengue infection pre-vaccination screening 
Individuals  who  have  not  been  previously  infected  by  dengue  virus  or  for  whom  this  information  is 
unknown  should  not  be  vaccinated  because  of  an  increased  risk  of  hospitalisation  for  dengue  and 
clinically  severe  dengue  (predominantly  grade  1  or  2  Dengue  Hemorrhagic  Fever)has  been  observed 
during the long-term follow up of the pivotal clinical trials in these vaccinated individuals not 
previously infectedindividuals during the long-term follow up of clinical trials (see section 4.8). 
In the absence of documented prior dengue virus infection, previous infection has tomust be confirmed 
by a test before vaccination (see section 4.2). To avoid vaccination of false positives, only test methods 
with  adequate  performance  in  terms  of  specificity  and  cross-reactivity  based  on  the  local  disease 
epidemiology should be used in accordance with official recommendations. 
In  non-endemic  areas  or  low  transmission  settings,  the  lower  the  proportion  of  true  seropositive 
individuals, the higher the risk of false seropositives with any test used to determine dengue serostatus.  
Thus, testing performed prior to vaccination should be limited to individuals with high probability of past 
dengue infection (e.g. individuals who lived before or had recurrent stay in endemic areas) and who are 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 35/44 
 
 
 
 
 
likely to be exposed to dengue in the future. The objective is to minimize the risk of a false positive test., 
as in non-endemic areas, the proportion of individuals truly infected by dengue is considered generally 
very low.  
In non-endemic areas or low transmission settings, the use of the vaccine should be restricted 
to individuals who have high probability of future exposure to dengue. 
The  lower  the  proportion  of  true  seropositive  individuals,  the  higher  the  risk  of  false 
seropositives  with  any  test  used  to  determine  dengue  serostatus.  Thus,  pre-vaccination 
testing and vaccination should be limited to individuals with high probability of past dengue 
infection  (e.g.  individuals  who  lived  before  or  had  recurrent  stay  in  endemic  areas).  The 
objective is to minimize the risk of a false positive test. 
Special populations patient groups 
Women of childbearing potential  
Women  of  childbearing  potential  have  to  use  effective  contraception  during  at  least  one 
month after each dose (see section 4.6). 
Travellers 
There are no safety, immunogenicity or efficacy data to support vaccination of individuals living in non-
endemic  areas  and  travelling  to  endemic  areas,  therefore  vaccination  of  these  individuals  is  not 
recommended.  There  are  no  clinical  data  to  support  vaccination  of  individuals  living  in  non-
endemic areas with low probability of past dengue infection and who only occasionally travel 
to endemic areas, therefore vaccination of these individuals is not recommended. 
Outbreaks 
Dengvaxia should not be used in the context of dengue outbreak in non-endemic regions. 
Protection 
A  protective  immune  response  with  Dengvaxia  may  not  be  elicited  in  all  vaccinees.  It  is 
recommended  to  continue  personal  protection  measures  against  mosquito  bites  after 
vaccination. 
Others 
Administration of Dengvaxia must be postponed in individuals suffering from moderate to severe febrile 
or acute disease. 
Vaccination should be preceded by a review of the individual's medical history (in particular, previous 
vaccinations and possible adverse reactions which occurred after vaccination). 
Appropriate  medical  treatment  and  supervision  must  always  be  readily  available  in  the  event  of  an 
anaphylactic reaction following administration of the vaccine. 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 36/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Syncope (fainting) can occur following, or even before, any vaccination as a psychogenic response to 
injection  with  a  needle.  Procedures  should  be  in  place  to  prevent  injury  from  falling  and  to  manage 
syncopal reactions. 
The tip caps of the prefilled syringes contain a natural rubber latex derivative, which may cause allergic 
reactions in latex sensitive individuals. 
Women of childbearing potential have to use effective contraception during at least one month after each 
dose (see section 4.6). 
Dengvaxia must not be administered by intravascular injection under any circumstances. 
Dengvaxia contains phenylalanine, sodium and sorbitol 
Dengvaxia contains 41 micrograms of phenylalanine in each 0.5 ml dose. Phenylalanine may be harmful 
for people with phenylketonuria (PKU), a rare genetic disorder in which phenylalanine builds up because 
the body cannot remove it properly. 
Dengvaxia  contains  less  than  1mmol  of  sodium  (23  mg)  per  0.5  ml  dose,  that  is  to  say  essentially 
“sodium-free”. 
Dengvaxia contains 9.38 milligrams of sorbitol in each 0.5 ml dose. 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number of 
the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Section 5.1: 
[…] 
VE against hospitalized and severe VCD cases in subjects 6 to 16 years of age 
In subjects 6 to 16 years of age, dengue seropositive at baseline (immunogenicity subset), two clinically 
severe VCD cases in CYD14 and one in CYD15 were reported during the 25-month period after the first 
injection in the control group versus none in the vaccine group. Eight hospitalized VCD cases in CYD14 
were reported in the control group versus one in the vaccine group and two hospitalized VCD cases in 
CYD15 were reported in the control group versus none in the vaccine group. These data are inconclusive 
due to the low number of cases in the immunogenicity subset.  
Efficacy was assessed in moderate-high endemic areas. The magnitude of protection may not 
be extrapolated to other epidemiological situations. 
- Package Leaflet 
Section 1 
Dengvaxia is given to adults, young people and children (from 9 to 45 years of age) with prior dengue 
virus infection confirmed by a testand who live in endemic areas (also see sections 2 and 3).  
Endemic areas are areas where the disease has been continuously present among the people who live 
there and where outbreaks or epidemics have occurred. 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 37/44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2 
[…] Warnings and precautions 
If  you  or  your  child  have  never  been  infected  by  dengue  virus  before  vaccination,  you  may  have  an 
increased risk of a more serious dengue illness that may lead to hospitalisation if you are later bitten by 
a dengue-infected mosquito.  
Before the administration of Dengvaxia, your doctor, pharmacist or nurse will check if you or your child 
have ever been infected by dengue virus, and will tell you if a serotesting has to be performed. 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Dengvaxia if you or your child have: 
a mild to high fever or acute disease. You will not get Dengvaxia until you or your child have recovered. 
ever had any health problems when given a vaccine. Your doctor will carefully consider the risks and 
benefits of vaccination. 
ever  fainted  from  an  injection.  Fainting,  and  sometime  falling,  can  occur  (mostly  in  young  people) 
following, or even before, any injection with a needle.  
had any allergic reaction to latex. The tip cap of the pre-filled syringe contains a natural rubber latex 
which may cause an allergic reaction. 
Travellers 
Vaccination  is  not  recommended  if  you  have never  lived  in  an  area  where  dengue  infections  do  not 
regularly occur and if you plan to only occasionally travel to an area where dengue infections regularly 
occur. 
Outbreaks 
Dengvaxia should not be used in the context of dengue outbreak (sudden occurrence of disease) in non-
endemic regions. […] 
Section 3 
Previous  dengue  infection  must  be  confirmed  by  a  test,  either  documented  in  the  medical 
history or performed prior to vaccination. 
Dengvaxia is given by your doctor or nurse as an injection under the skin (subcutaneous injection) in 
the upper arm. It must not be injected into a blood vessel. 
You or your child will receive 3 injections of 0.5 mL – one every 6 months. 
The first injection will be given at the chosen or scheduled date. 
The second injection, 6 months after the first injection. 
The third injection, 6 months after the second injection. 
Dengvaxia should be used according to official recommendations. 
Previous  dengue  infection  has  to  be  assessed  by  laboratory  confirmed  history  of  dengue  or  through 
serotesting according to official recommendations. 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 38/44 
 
 
 
 
  
 
For the full list of changes, see Attachment 1. 
2.4.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
MAH show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance 
3.1.  Therapeutic Context 
3.1.1.  Disease or condition 
In the EU, at the time of this variation application, Dengvaxia was indicated for the prevention of dengue 
disease caused by dengue virus serotypes 1, 2, 3, and 4 in individuals 9 to 45 years of age with prior 
dengue virus infection and living in endemic areas.  
The MAH seeks an extension of the approved indication to individual tested positive to dengue, living or 
not in endemic areas: ‘Dengvaxia is indicated for the prevention of dengue disease caused by dengue 
virus serotypes 1, 2, 3 and 4 in individuals 9 to 45 years of age with test-confirmed previous dengue 
infection prior dengue virus infection and living in endemic areas.’ 
The current vaccination schedule consists of 3 injections 6-month apart. 
Dengue is an acute, systemic viral infection caused by a virus that is transmitted primarily by the Aedes 
aegypti mosquito bites. The infection may be asymptomatic, cause flu-like illness, and can develop into 
a  potentially  lethal  complication  called  severe  dengue  (including  dengue  hemorrhagic  fever 
[DHF]/dengue shock syndrome [DSS]).  According to CDC, an estimated 1 in 4 dengue virus infections 
are symptomatic. Symptomatic dengue virus infection most commonly presents as a mild to moderate, 
nonspecific, acute febrile illness. Approximately 1 in 20 patients with dengue virus disease progress to 
develop severe dengue. Severe dengue is a potentially fatal complication, due to plasma leaking, fluid 
accumulation,  respiratory  distress,  severe  bleeding,  or  organ  impairment.  Dengue  shock  syndrome 
(DSS)  is  the most  severe  form  of  dengue  disease  and  results  from  hypovolaemia  caused  by  vascular 
leakage. 
There are 4 types of closely related but antigenically distinct dengue virus serotypes (1, 2, 3, and 4). 
Primary  dengue  virus  infection  is  thought  to  provide  lifelong  protection  against  the  infecting  serotype 
and transient cross-protection against heterologous serotypes. Dengue haemorrhagic fever and dengue 
shock  syndrome  occur  mostly  in  individuals  during  secondary  dengue  virus  infection  with  a  different 
serotype.  Increased  risk  in  secondary  infection  is  thought  to  be  linked  to  antibody-dependent 
enhancement of virus infection in Fc receptor–bearing cells and the generation of a large infected cell 
mass in vivo. The antibody-mediated enhancement of dengue seems to be related with the presence of 
suboptimal neutralizing heterotypic antibodies (that accelerate the rate of internalization of the virus and 
infection of host cells), and may also be related to the presence of memory T cells with low affinity for 
the present infecting virus but high affinity for previous infecting serotype(s). 
Dengue is the most common mosquito-borne viral disease in humans, spreading globally during the past 
30  years  as  a  result  of  changes  in  human  ecology.  The  rapidly  expanding  global  footprint  of  dengue 
inflicts a significant public health, economic and social burden on the populations of endemic areas. Half 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 39/44 
 
 
 
of the world's population is now considered at risk of infection by the dengue viruses. Dengue disease is 
a major public health concern in more than 128 countries, with the four dengue virus serotypes found 
in tropical and sub-tropical regions, including some European territories. Dengue is endemic in Asia, the 
Pacific area, Africa, and Latin America (including the Caribbean). Sustained transmission of dengue fever 
does not naturally occur in continental Europe, though sporadic autochthonous dengue cases had been 
reported in Croatia and in France these last years, even if more limited. Dengue, however, is endemic 
in the overseas territories of some European countries such as France (French Guiana, Martinique, and 
Guadeloupe). 
3.1.2.  Available therapies and unmet medical need 
There is no specific treatment for dengue disease. The management of dengue disease is supportive, 
with rest, control of fever and pain with antipyretics/analgesics, and adequate fluid intake. Supportive 
intensive care and fluid management are the mainstays of therapy for severe disease. 
Up to the end of 2015, the only available prevention of dengue by vector control has proven to be of 
limited success, very difficult to sustain and costly. Vaccination provides a viable and practical alternative 
in disease control measures. The only vaccine currently on the market is Dengvaxia. 
Since the first marketing authorization obtained in Mexico on 08 December 2015, Dengvaxia has been 
licensed in 22 countries in total. Based on EMA’s CHMP recommendation, the European commission has 
granted the marketing authorization in Europe on 12 December 2018. The prequalification by the World 
Health Organization (WHO) was granted on 25 March 2020. 
Unmet need 
Data  of  the  literature  review  presented  by  the  MAH  demonstrated  that,  overall,  seropositivity  rate  in 
people not living in endemic areas and travelling to dengue endemic areas ranges from 6-40% but can 
also be higher when focusing in very particular populations such as expatriates with long-term stay. The 
seropositivity rate in people born in endemic areas and who moved to reside in non-endemic countries 
ranges from 20% to 96%.   
Vaccination may thus be beneficial to specific population of individuals not living in endemic areas and 
travelling regularly to dengue endemic area, such as tourist travellers, business travellers, expatriates 
or people working for recurrent long-stay missions in endemic area (such as health care workers). Not 
only could travellers with virologically-confirmed dengue history be vaccinated with Dengvaxia, but also 
potentially  travellers  with  an  history  of  travel  in  dengue  endemic  area,  even  if  dengue  infection  was 
asymptomatic, provided an adequate pre-vaccination testing strategy is applied. 
3.1.3.  Main clinical studies 
There were no new clinical data submitted. The available clinical data remain those from studies included 
in  the  Clinical  Development  Programme,  and  particularly  from  the  main  pivotal  studies  (CYD14  and 
CYD15) which were assessed at the time of the initial MAA.  
The recommendations about pre-vaccination screening and test(s) to be used are the responsibility of 
the national health authorities. Therefore, data on the performance of existing serotests including the 
MAH co-developed RDT to screen individuals as well as the modelling results on the impact of screen 
and vaccinate approach in different endemic settings were not assessed in depth and are not considered 
to weigh in the benefit/risk balance. 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 40/44 
 
 
 
A  literature  search  to  assess  the  risk  of  dengue  infection  in  those  not  living  in  endemic  areas  was 
presented in support to the removal from the indication of the criterion limiting the use of the vaccine to 
individuals living in endemic areas. The literature data documented the unmet need in specific population 
of individuals not living in endemic areas and travelling regularly to dengue endemic area (see unmet 
medical need above). 
3.2.  Favourable effects 
Results of the main pivotal Phase 3 studies, performed in 10 countries of southeast Asia Pacific (CYD14) 
and Latin America (CYD15) demonstrated the vaccine efficacy over one year post dose 3 against dengue, 
hospitalised and severe dengue in those 9-16 years with prior dengue infection (seropositives). 
3.3.  Uncertainties and limitations about favourable effects 
Efficacy data were generated in highly endemic populations (LatAm and Asia Pacific regions). There is 
no efficacy data in EU endemic territories or in travellers living in non-endemic areas. 
It is unclear to which extent efficacy demonstrated in highly endemic countries can be extrapolated to 
areas of low endemicity, and to EU travellers who have been previously infected with dengue. Efficacy 
and immunogenicity levels in subjects living in non-endemic areas but who have been exposed in the 
past are likely depending on the level of exposure they experienced. Pre-existing immunity to dengue 
virus and other flaviviruses may affect immunogenicity and efficacy levels (cross-protection). Overall, 
higher baseline dengue virus-neutralizing Ab GMTs were associated with higher PD3 GMTs. Hence, there 
is an uncertainty around the level of efficacy and immunogenicity in EU vaccine recipients. Since there 
is no immune correlate of protection,  the clinical relevance of the vaccine–induced  immunogenicity is 
not known.  
There  is  no  efficacy  data  over  16  yo  and  only  limited  immunogenicity  data  in  18-60  yo  individuals. 
Individuals living in non-endemic areas that may benefit from vaccination will be of all ages. 
It was shown in endemic area that efficacy decreases starting one year after the last dose and appears 
to  be  poor  or  absent  after  this  period.  Long-term  efficacy  (and  immunogenicity)  of  Dengvaxia  in  the 
travellers  populations  living  in  non-endemic  areas  is  not  known.  Persistence  of  efficacy  cannot  be 
extrapolated from endemic areas where pre-existing immunity is higher and regular natural re-boostings 
of immunity occur, which may contribute to maintain efficacy over time. Long term efficacy might vary 
among  the  diverse  population  of  travellers.  The  effect  of  and  adequate  timing  for  booster  dose(s)  is 
unknown.  
The current 3-dose schedule (with the current interval between doses) renders the use of Dengvaxia in 
a travel medicine setting difficult. 
3.4.  Unfavourable effects 
No new safety data has been generated specifically for this application. Briefly, in subjects 9 to 45 years 
of age, the most frequently reported reactions whatever the dengue serostatus prior to vaccination, were 
headache (54%), injection site pain (49%), malaise (44%), myalgia (43%), asthenia (34%), and fever 
(16%).  In  the  paediatric  population  9-17  yo,  fever  has  been  observed  with  a  higher  frequency  (very 
common) than in adults (common). 
Overall,  the  same  adverse  reactions  but  at  lower  frequencies  were  observed  in  dengue  seropositive 
subjects. 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 41/44 
 
 
 
 
There is an identified increased risk of severe and/or hospitalized dengue for individuals not previously 
infected by dengue virus (seronegatives) who are inadvertently vaccinated with Dengvaxia. This risk has 
been classified as an important identified risk in RMP and listed in the product information with a warning. 
3.5.  Uncertainties and limitations about unfavourable effects 
Limited safety data following vaccination with the CYD dengue vaccine (final formulation) of individuals 
living in non-endemic countries are available from the early phase development but did not raise concern. 
At initial MA, it was concluded that the safety profile of the CYD dengue vaccine was acceptable within 6 
months post any injection in all the populations studied, i.e. in all age groups and regions (non-endemic, 
endemic Asia Pacific, or endemic Latin America). 
The  use  of  the  vaccine  in  subjects  who  did  not  yet  acquire  a  natural  immunity  against  dengue  virus 
(seronegatives) was associated with an identified risk for severe dengue, which can be potentially fatal. 
The  safety  of  Dengvaxia  is  highly  dependent  on  the  testing  approaches  used  to  identify  prior  dengue 
infection  before  vaccination.  The  recommendations  about  pre-vaccination  screening  and  test(s)  to  be 
used are the responsibility of the local health authorities.  
As  for  individuals  living  in  endemic  areas,  a  risk  of  severe  dengue  disease  due  to  waning  of  vaccine-
protection over time is an important potential risk in the RMP. 
3.6.  Effects Table 
Not applicable 
3.7.  Benefit-risk assessment and discussion 
3.7.1.  Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects 
The proposed indication addresses the unmet medical need for specific populations living in non-endemic 
areas  with  high  probability  of  previous  dengue  infection,  such  as  expatriates  or  people  working  for 
recurrent long-stay missions in endemic areas, who are likely to have been exposed to dengue in the 
past and could be re-exposed in the future. 
There is an identified risk of severe and/or hospitalized dengue for individuals not previously infected by 
dengue  virus.  The  safety  of  Dengvaxia  is  highly  dependent  on  the  approaches  used  to  identify  prior 
dengue infection before vaccination. The approaches to be implemented in order to ascertain previous 
dengue infection prior to vaccination is in the remit of the local Public Health authorities. 
There is uncertainty around the level of efficacy in EU vaccine recipients. The long-term efficacy and the 
effect of and adequate timing for booster(s) dose is unknown. 
3.7.2.  Balance of benefits and risks 
Altogether, the benefit of Dengvaxia outweighs the unfavourable effects, linked mainly to reactogenicity. 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 42/44 
 
 
 
3.7.3.  Additional considerations on the benefit-risk balance 
It is considered that the main risk with Dengvaxia is to inadvertently vaccinate individuals who did not 
yet  acquire  a  natural  immunity  against  dengue  virus.  The  recommendations  about  pre-vaccination 
screening and test(s) to be used to avoid a false positive test are the responsibility of the local health 
authorities.  It  is  not  known  how  these  recommendations  will  evolve,  and  how  far  they  will  be 
appropriately  followed.  Some  approaches  are  not  associated  with  a  risk  (such  as  vaccination  of 
individuals  with  a  virologically-confirmed  prior  dengue  infection).  In  contrast,  approaches  relying  on 
serological assays are associated with a risk of false positives, depending on the epidemiological context 
and assay performances. 
3.8.  Conclusions 
The overall B/R of Dengvaxia is positive. 
The extension of indication is recommended for approval. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the following 
change: 
Variation accepted 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.6.a  
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition 
Type II 
I and IIIB 
of a new therapeutic indication or modification of an 
approved one  
Update of the PI impacting the Therapeutic Indications section to further detail the conditions for the 
eligibility to pre-vaccination serostatus screening. 
As a consequence, sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.4 and 5.1 of the SmPC and sections 1, 2 and 3 of the Package 
Leaflet are updated accordingly. 
Amendments to the marketing authorisation 
In view of the data submitted with the variation, amendments to Annexes I and IIIB are recommended. 
Conditions  or  restrictions  with  regard  to  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the 
medicinal product 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The Marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and 
interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and 
any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 43/44 
 
 
 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an important 
(pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Assessment report  
EMA/754271/2021  
Page 44/44 
 
 
 
 
