EMA/688282/2021  
EMEA/H/C/004171 
Dengvaxia (dengue tetravalent vaccine [live, attenuated]) 
An overview of Dengvaxia and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Dengvaxia and what is it used for? 
Dengvaxia is a vaccine used to help protect against dengue disease in people aged 6 to 45 years who 
have had a previous dengue virus infection. 
Dengue disease is a mosquito-borne tropical disease caused by the dengue virus, leading to mild, flu-
like symptoms in most people. However, a small number of patients develop severe disease, with 
potentially fatal bleeding and organ damage. The risk of severe disease is higher in people who have 
been infected a second time.  
There are several varieties (called serotypes) of dengue virus and Dengvaxia protects against 
serotypes 1, 2, 3 and 4.  
Dengvaxia contains attenuated (weakened) yellow fever viruses that have been modified so that they 
contain proteins from dengue virus.  
How is Dengvaxia used? 
Dengvaxia must only be given to people who have had a positive test result showing a previous 
infection with dengue virus. The vaccine is given as three doses, six months apart. The injection is 
given under the skin, preferably in the upper arm.  
Dengvaxia can only be obtained with a prescription and should be used according to official 
recommendations. For more information about using Dengvaxia, see the package leaflet or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Dengvaxia work? 
Vaccines work by ‘teaching’ the immune system (the body’s natural defences) how to defend the body 
against a disease. Dengvaxia contains weakened viruses that do not cause disease. When a person is 
given the vaccine, the immune system recognises the dengue proteins in the weakened viruses as 
‘foreign’ and makes antibodies against them. In the future, when the person comes into contact with 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
dengue virus, these antibodies together with other components of the immune system will be able to 
kill the virus and help protect against the disease. 
What benefits of Dengvaxia have been shown in studies? 
Three studies were carried out in Asia and Latin America involving over 35,000 children aged 2 to 16 
years. The studies included both children who had and had not been infected with dengue virus in the 
past. Children were given either three injections of Dengvaxia or three injections of placebo (a dummy 
vaccine) with six months between each injection. Cases of dengue disease were recorded for one year, 
starting from four weeks after the last injection.  
Overall, among children aged between 6 and 16 years and who had had previous dengue infection, 
there were close to 80% fewer cases of dengue disease in children vaccinated with three doses of 
Dengvaxia compared with those given placebo. This means that the vaccine had an efficacy of close to 
80% in children who had dengue in the past. However, among children who had not had previous 
dengue infection, the risk of severe dengue disease if they later became infected with the virus was 
higher in those vaccinated than in those given placebo.  
Additional studies suggest that the vaccine is also effective in people aged 16 to 45 years.  
Available data are not sufficient to confirm how well the vaccine works and whether it is sufficiently 
safe in children younger than 6 years of age and previously infected by dengue virus. 
What are the risks associated with Dengvaxia? 
The most common side effects with Dengvaxia (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
headache, redness and pain at the injection site, feeling generally unwell, muscle pain, weakness and 
fever. Allergic reactions, which may be severe, are a very rare side effect of Dengvaxia.  
Dengvaxia must not be given to people with weakened immune systems, including people whose 
immune system has been weakened by HIV infection or medicines such as cancer medicines or high 
doses of corticosteroids. Dengvaxia must also not be given to women who are pregnant or 
breastfeeding.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Dengvaxia, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Dengvaxia authorised in the EU? 
Dengvaxia is effective at reducing the number of cases of dengue disease in people aged between 6 
and 45 years who have had the infection in the past. However, people who have not had dengue 
infection in the past may have a higher risk of severe dengue disease if they become infected with the 
virus after vaccination with Dengvaxia. Therefore, the vaccine should only be given to people who have 
had a previous dengue infection, as confirmed by laboratory testing. 
There is no other vaccine for dengue disease and neither is there a specific treatment. Dengvaxia’s 
side effects are usually mild or moderate and do not last longer than three days. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Dengvaxia’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU in areas where dengue disease is endemic. 
Dengvaxia (dengue tetravalent vaccine [live, attenuated])  
EMA/688282/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Dengvaxia? 
The company that markets Dengvaxia will provide educational material for healthcare professionals 
with information on the use of Dengvaxia including the need to test for previous dengue infection and 
how to detect early dengue disease.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Dengvaxia have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Dengvaxia are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Dengvaxia are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Dengvaxia 
Dengvaxia received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 12 December 2018. 
Further information on Dengvaxia can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Dengvaxia.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2021. 
Dengvaxia (dengue tetravalent vaccine [live, attenuated])  
EMA/688282/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
