EMA/169100/2016  
EMEA/H/C/004094 
EPAR summary for the public 
Descovy 
emtricitabine / tenofovir alafenamide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Descovy. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Descovy. 
For practical information about using Descovy, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Descovy and what is it used for? 
Descovy is an antiviral medicine used in combination with other medicines to treat individuals infected 
with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), a virus that causes acquired immune deficiency 
syndrome (AIDS). It is used in adults and adolescents aged over 12 years and who weigh at least 
35 kg. 
Descovy contains the active substances emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide. 
How is Descovy used? 
Descovy can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor 
experienced in managing HIV infection.  
Descovy is available as tablets, each containing 200 mg of emtricitabine and either 10 or 25 mg of 
tenofovir alafenamide. The recommended dose is one tablet per day, and the strength of Descovy 
tablet chosen by the doctor depends on which other medicines it is given with. For further information, 
see the summary of product characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Descovy work? 
Tenofovir alafenamide is a ‘prodrug’ of tenofovir, meaning that it is converted into the active substance 
tenofovir in the body. Tenofovir and emtricitabine are related antiviral agents called reverse 
transcriptase inhibitors. They block the activity of reverse transcriptase, an enzyme made by the virus 
that allows it to reproduce itself in the cells it has infected. By blocking reverse transcriptase, Descovy 
reduces the amount of HIV in the blood and keeps it at a low level. It does not cure HIV infection or 
AIDS, but it can hold off damage to the immune system and avoid the development of infections and 
diseases associated with AIDS. 
What benefits of Descovy have been shown in studies? 
The active substances in Descovy (emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide) are already approved to 
treat HIV infection together with two other active substances (elvitegravir and cobicistat) as part of the 
combination medicine Genvoya. The company therefore presented data from the studies previously 
used to approve Genvoya, including 2 studies in 1,733 previously untreated adults, where around 90% 
of patients responded to treatment, and another study showing benefit was maintained when patients 
treated with other effective combinations were switched to Genvoya.  
The company also provided data from supporting studies including studies looking at the way Descovy 
was absorbed in the body. These studies showed that Descovy produces comparable levels of 
emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide in the body to Genvoya.  
What are the risks associated with Descovy? 
The most common side effect with Descovy (which may affect 1 in 10 people) is nausea (feeling sick). 
Other common side effects include diarrhoea and headache. For the full list of all side effects and 
restrictions with Descovy, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Descovy approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Descovy’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. Descovy contains 
tenofovir alafenamide which is effective at a lower dose than the established medicine tenofovir 
disoproxil and offers the possibility of reduced side effects. Similarly to Genvoya, Descovy offers an 
alternative option to giving emtricitabine with tenofovir disoproxil 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Descovy? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Descovy is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Descovy, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Descovy 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Descovy on 21 April 2016. 
Descovy  
EMA/169100/2016 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The full EPAR for Descovy can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Descovy, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 04-2016. 
Descovy  
EMA/169100/2016 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
