 SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR DESCOVY 
(EMTRICITABINE/ TENOFOVIR ALAFENAMIDE) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Descovy. The RMP details important 
risks of Descovy, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained 
about Descovy’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Descovy’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Descovy should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Descovy should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Descovy’s 
RMP. 
I. 
The Medicine and What is it Used for 
Descovy is indicated in combination with other antiretroviral agents for the treatment of human 
immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection in adults and adolescents (aged 12 years and 
older with body weight at least 35 kg) (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains 
emtricitabine (FTC) and tenofovir alafenamide (TAF) as the active substances and it is given 
orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of Descovy’s benefits can be found in Descovy’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/overview/descovy-epar-
summary-public_en.pdf 
II. 
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or Further 
Characterize the Risks 
Important risks of Descovy, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Descovy’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Descovy is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A. 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Descovy are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Descovy. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
Table Part VI.1. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information  
Important Identified Risks  None 
Important Potential Risks  None 
Missing Information 
Safety in pregnancy and lactation 
II.B. 
Summary of Important Risks 
Descovy has been assigned the legal status of a medicine subject to medical prescription in the 
European Union (EU), whereby therapy should be initiated by a doctor experienced in the 
management of HIV infection (as described in section 4.2 of the SmPC). 
Table Part VI.2. 
Summary of Important Risk(s) and Missing Information 
Missing information 
Safety in pregnancy and lactation 
Risk minimization 
measure(s) 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine risk communication: 
SmPC Section 4.6 
PL Section 2 
Antiretroviral pregnancy registry 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan 
 
 
II.C. 
II.C.1. 
Post-authorization Development Plan 
Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
Descovy. 
II.C.2. 
Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan 
Table Part VI.3. 
Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan 
Short Study Name 
Purpose of the Study 
Antiretroviral Pregnancy 
Registry (APR) 
To collect information on the risk of birth defects with 
antiretroviral drugs (ARVs), including DVY, during 
pregnancy 
 
