ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 5 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each tablet contains 5 mg desloratadine. 
Excipient(s) with known effect:  
Each tablet contains 14.25 mg lactose (as monohydrate).  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet. 
Round, biconvex, blue film-coated tablets. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Desloratadine ratiopharm is indicated in adults for the relief of symptoms associated with: 
- 
- 
allergic rhinitis (see section 5.1) 
chronic idiopathic urticaria as initially diagnosed by a physician (see section 5.1) 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The recommended dose is one tablet once a day. 
Duration of treatment 
The duration of treatment depends on the type, duration and course of symptoms. 
If symptoms persist for more than 7 days or deteriorate, patients should seek medical advice in order 
to minimise the risk of masking an underlying disease. 
Intermittent allergic rhinitis (presence of symptoms for less than 4 days per week or for less than 
4 weeks) should be managed in accordance with the evaluation of patient’s disease history and the 
treatment could be discontinued after symptoms are resolved and reinitiated upon their reappearance. 
In persistent allergic rhinitis (presence of symptoms for 4 days or more per week and for more than 
4 weeks), continued treatment may be proposed to the patients during the allergen exposure periods. 
For chronic idiopathic urticaria the symptoms may persist more than 6 weeks it is characterised by 
recurrent episodes and continued treatment may be necessary. 
Paediatric population 
Desloratadine ratiopharm is not recommended for use in children and adolescents below 18 years of 
age. 
There is limited clinical trial efficacy experience with the use of desloratadine in adolescents 
12 through 17 years of age (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety and efficacy of Desloratadine ratiopharm 5 mg film-coated tablets in children below the 
age of 12 years have not been established. 
Currently available data are described in sections 4.8 and 5.1 but no recommendation on a posology 
can be made. 
Method of administration 
Oral use. 
The tablet can be taken with or without food. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, to loratadine or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Chronic idiopathic urticaria 
Chronic idiopathic urticarial should initially be diagnosed by a physician. 
In case of symptom that indicate angioedema, the patient needs to seek medical help immediately. 
Hepatic impairment  
In the case of severe hepatic impairment, desloratadine should be used with caution, as hepatitis and 
jaundice are possible adverse reactions (see section 4.8). 
Renal impairment 
In the case of severe renal insufficiency, desloratadine should be used with caution (see section 5.2). 
Seizures 
Desloratadine should be administered with caution in patients with medical or familial history of 
seizures, and mainly young children, being more susceptible to develop new seizures under 
desloratadine treatment. Healthcare providers may consider discontinuing desloratadine in patients 
who experience a seizure while on treatment. 
Excipients 
Lactose 
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-
galactose malabsorption should not take this medicine. 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No clinically relevant interactions were observed in clinical trials with desloratadine tablets in which 
erythromycin or ketoconazole were co-administered (see section 5.1). 
In a clinical pharmacology trial desloratadine tablets taken concomitantly with alcohol did not 
potentiate the performance impairing effects of alcohol (see section 5.1). However, cases of alcohol 
intolerance and intoxication have been reported during post-marketing use. Therefore, caution is 
recommended if alcohol is taken concomitantly. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
A large amount of data on pregnant women (more than 1,000 pregnancy outcomes) indicate no 
malformative nor foeto/neonatal toxicity of desloratadine. Animal studies do not indicate direct or 
indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). As a precautionary 
measure, it is preferable to avoid the use of desloratadine during pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Desloratadine has been identified in breastfed newborns/infants of treated women. The effect of 
desloratadine on newborns/infants is unknown. A decision must be made whether to discontinue 
breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from desloratadine therapy taking into account the benefit of 
breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. Breast-feeding women shall seek 
medical advice before using desloratadine. 
Fertility 
There are no data available on male and female fertility. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Desloratadine has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines based on clinical 
trials. Patients should be informed that most people do not experience drowsiness. Nevertheless, as 
there is individual variation in response to all medicinal products, it is recommended that patients are 
advised not to engage in activities requiring mental alertness, such as driving a car or using machines, 
until they have established their own response to the medicinal product. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
In clinical trials in a range of indications including allergic rhinitis and chronic idiopathic urticaria, at 
the recommended dose of 5 mg daily, undesirable effects with desloratadine were reported in 3 % of 
patients in excess of those treated with placebo. The most frequent of adverse reactions reported in 
excess of placebo were fatigue (1.2 %), dry mouth (0.8 %) and headache (0.6 %).  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The frequency of the clinical trial adverse reactions reported in excess of placebo and other 
undesirable effects reported during the post-marketing period are listed in the following table. 
Frequencies are defined as very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 
to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare (< 1/10,000) and not known (cannot be estimated 
from the available data). 
System Organ Class 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Frequency 
Not known 
Adverse reactions seen with desloratadine 
Increased appetite 
Very rare 
Not known 
Common 
Very rare 
Not known 
Very rare 
Not known 
Hallucinations 
Abnormal behaviour, aggression, depressed mood 
Headache 
Dizziness, somnolence, insomnia, psychomotor 
hyperactivity, seizures 
Eye dryness 
Tachycardia, palpitations 
QT prolongation 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Frequency 
Common 
Very rare 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Very rare 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Investigations 
Paediatric population 
Adverse reactions seen with desloratadine 
Dry mouth 
Abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, dyspepsia, 
diarrhoea 
Elevations of liver enzymes, increased bilirubin, 
hepatitis 
Jaundice 
Photosensitivity 
Not known 
Not known 
Common 
Very rare 
Very rare 
Myalgia 
Fatigue 
Hypersensitivity reactions (such as anaphylaxis, 
angioedema, dyspnoea, pruritus, rash and 
urticaria) 
Asthenia 
Not known 
Not known  Weight increased 
In a clinical trial with 578 adolescent patients, 12 through 17 years of age, the most common adverse 
event was headache; this occurred in 5.9 % of patients treated with desloratadine and 6.9 % of patients 
receiving placebo. 
Other undesirable effects reported during the post-marketing period in paediatric patients with an 
unknown frequency included QT prolongation, arrhythmia, bradycardia, abnormal behaviour, and 
aggression. 
A retrospective observational safety study indicated an increased incidence of new-onset seizure in 
patients 0 to 19 years of age when receiving desloratadine compared with periods not receiving 
desloratadine. Among children 0-4 years old, the adjusted absolute increase was 37.5 (95% 
Confidence Interval (CI) 10.5-64.5) per 100,000 person years (PY) with a background rate of new 
onset seizure of 80.3 per 100,000 PY. Among patients 5-19 years of age, the adjusted absolute 
increase was 11.3 (95% CI 2.3-20.2) per 100,000 PY with a background rate of 36.4 per 100,000 PY. 
(See section 4.4.) 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
The adverse event profile associated with overdosage, as seen during post-marketing use, is similar to 
that seen with therapeutic doses, but the magnitude of the effects can be higher. 
Treatment 
In the event of overdose, consider standard measures to remove unabsorbed active substance. 
Symptomatic and supportive treatment is recommended. 
Desloratadine is not eliminated by haemodialysis; it is not known if it is eliminated by peritoneal 
dialysis. 
Symptoms 
Based on a multiple dose clinical trial, in which up to 45 mg of desloratadine was administered 
(nine times the clinical dose), no clinically relevant effects were observed. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
The adverse event profile associated with overdosage, as seen during post-marketing use, is similar to 
that seen with therapeutic doses, but the magnitude of the effects can be higher. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: antihistamines – H1 antagonist, ATC code: R06A X27 
Mechanism of action 
Desloratadine is a non-sedating, long-acting histamine antagonist with selective peripheral H1-receptor 
antagonist activity. After oral administration, desloratadine selectively blocks peripheral histamine H1-
receptors because the substance is excluded from entry to the central nervous system. 
Desloratadine has demonstrated antiallergic properties from in vitro studies. These include inhibiting 
the release of proinflammatory cytokines such as IL-4, IL-6, IL-8, and IL-13 from human mast 
cells/basophils, as well as inhibition of the expression of the adhesion molecule P-selectin on 
endothelial cells. The clinical relevance of these observations remains to be confirmed. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
In a multiple dose clinical trial, in which up to 20 mg of desloratadine was administered daily for 
14 days, no statistically or clinically relevant cardiovascular effect was observed. In a clinical 
pharmacology trial, in which desloratadine was administered at a dose of 45 mg daily (nine times the 
clinical dose) for ten days, no prolongation of QTc interval was seen. 
No clinically relevant changes in desloratadine plasma concentrations were observed in multiple-dose 
ketoconazole and erythromycin interaction trials. 
Desloratadine does not readily penetrate the central nervous system. In controlled clinical trials, at the 
recommended dose of 5 mg daily, there was no excess incidence of somnolence as compared to 
placebo. Desloratadine given at a single daily dose of 7.5 mg did not affect psychomotor performance 
in clinical trials. In a single dose study performed in adults, desloratadine 5 mg did not affect standard 
measures of flight performance including exacerbation of subjective sleepiness or tasks related to 
flying. 
In clinical pharmacology trials, co-administration with alcohol did not increase the alcohol-induced 
impairment in performance or increase in sleepiness. No significant differences were found in the 
psychomotor test results between desloratadine and placebo groups, whether administered alone or 
with alcohol. 
In patients with allergic rhinitis, desloratadine was effective in relieving symptoms such as sneezing, 
nasal discharge and itching, as well as ocular itching, tearing and redness, and itching of palate. 
Desloratadine effectively controlled symptoms for 24 hours.  
Paediatric population 
The efficacy of desloratadine tablets has not been clearly demonstrated in trials with adolescent 
patients 12 through 17 years of age. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the established classifications of seasonal and perennial, allergic rhinitis can 
alternatively be classified as intermittent allergic rhinitis and persistent allergic rhinitis according to 
the duration of symptoms. Intermittent allergic rhinitis is defined as the presence of symptoms for less 
than 4 days per week or for less than 4 weeks. Persistent allergic rhinitis is defined as the presence of 
symptoms for 4 days or more per week and for more than 4 weeks. 
Desloratadine was effective in alleviating the burden of seasonal allergic rhinitis as shown by the total 
score of the rhino-conjunctivitis quality of life questionnaire. The greatest amelioration was seen in the 
domains of practical problems and daily activities limited by symptoms. 
Chronic idiopathic urticaria was studied as a clinical model for urticarial conditions, since the 
underlying pathophysiology is similar, regardless of aetiology, and because chronic patients can be 
more easily recruited prospectively. Since histamine release is a causal factor in all urticarial diseases, 
desloratadine is expected to be effective in providing symptomatic relief for other urticarial conditions, 
in addition to chronic idiopathic urticaria, as advised in clinical guidelines. 
In two placebo-controlled six week trials in patients with chronic idiopathic urticaria, desloratadine 
was effective in relieving pruritus and decreasing the size and number of hives by the end of the first 
dosing interval. In each trial, the effects were sustained over the 24 hour dosing interval. As with other 
antihistamine trials in chronic idiopathic urticaria, the minority of patients who were identified as non-
responsive to antihistamines was excluded. An improvement in pruritus of more than 50 % was 
observed in 55 % of patients treated with desloratadine compared with 19 % of patients treated with 
placebo. Treatment with desloratadine also significantly reduced interference with sleep and daytime 
function, as measured by a four-point scale used to assess these variables. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Desloratadine plasma concentrations can be detected within 30 minutes of administration. 
Desloratadine is well absorbed with maximum concentration achieved after approximately 3 hours; the 
terminal phase half-life is approximately 27 hours. The degree of accumulation of desloratadine was 
consistent with its half-life (approximately 27 hours) and a once daily dosing frequency. The 
bioavailability of desloratadine was dose proportional over the range of 5 mg to 20 mg. 
In a pharmacokinetic trial in which patient demographics were comparable to those of the general 
seasonal allergic rhinitis population, 4 % of the subjects achieved a higher concentration of 
desloratadine. This percentage may vary according to ethnic background. Maximum desloratadine 
concentration was about 3-fold higher at approximately 7 hours with a terminal phase half-life of 
approximately 89 hours. The safety profile of these subjects was not different from that of the general 
population. 
Distribution 
Desloratadine is moderately bound (83 % - 87 %) to plasma proteins. There is no evidence of 
clinically relevant medicine accumulation following once daily dosing of desloratadine (5 mg to 
20 mg) for 14 days. 
Biotransformation 
The enzyme responsible for the metabolism of desloratadine has not been identified yet, and therefore, 
some interactions with other medicinal products cannot be fully excluded. Desloratadine does not 
inhibit CYP3A4 in vivo, and in vitro studies have shown that the medicinal product does not inhibit 
CYP2D6 and is neither a substrate nor an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elimination 
In a single dose trial using a 7.5 mg dose of desloratadine, there was no effect of food (high-fat, high 
caloric breakfast) on the disposition of desloratadine. In another study, grapefruit juice had no effect 
on the disposition of desloratadine. 
Renally impaired patients 
The pharmacokinetics of desloratadine in patients with chronic renal insufficiency (CRI) was 
compared with that of healthy subjects in one single-dose study and one multiple dose study. In the 
single-dose study, the exposure to desloratadine was approximately 2 and 2.5-fold greater in subjects 
with mild to moderate and severe CRI, respectively, than in healthy subjects. In the multiple-dose 
study, steady state was reached after Day 11, and compared to healthy subjects the exposure to 
desloratadine was ~1.5-fold greater in subjects with mild to moderate CRI and ~2.5-fold greater in 
subjects with severe CRI. In both studies, changes in exposure (AUC and Cmax) of desloratadine and 
3-hydroxydesloratadine were not clinically relevant. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Desloratadine is the primary active metabolite of loratadine. Non-clinical studies conducted with 
desloratadine and loratadine demonstrated that there are no qualitative or quantitative differences in 
the toxicity profile of desloratadine and loratadine at comparable levels of exposure to desloratadine. 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential, toxicity to reproduction 
and development. The lack of carcinogenic potential was demonstrated in studies conducted with 
desloratadine and loratadine. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core: 
Poloxamer type 188 
Citric acid monohydrate  
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Maize starch 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Lactose monohydrate 
Talc 
Film-coating: 
Polyvinyl alcohol (part. hydrolysed) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Macrogol/PEG 3350 
Talc 
Indigo carmine aluminium lake (E132) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 30 °C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
PVC/PVdC/aluminium blister: 
Pack sizes of 7, 10, 14, 15, 20 and 30 film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
No special requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
ratiopharm GmbH 
Graf-Arco-Straße 3 
89079 Ulm 
Germany 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/11/746/001 - Cartons of 7 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVdC/aluminium blisters 
EU/1/11/746/002 - Cartons of 10 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVdC/aluminium blisters 
EU/1/11/746/003 - Cartons of 14 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVdC/aluminium blisters 
EU/1/11/746/004 - Cartons of 15 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVdC/aluminium blisters 
EU/1/11/746/005 - Cartons of 20 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVdC/aluminium blisters 
EU/1/11/746/006 - Cartons of 30 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVdC/aluminium blisters 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 13 January 2012 
Date of latest renewal: 8 August 2016 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Merckle GmbH 
Ludwig-Merckle-Straße 3 
89143 Blaubeuren 
Germany 
TEVA Pharmaceutical Works Private Limited Company 
Pallagi út 13 
4042 Debrecen 
Hungary 
Pharmachemie B.V. 
Swensweg 5,  
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
Teva Czech Industries s.r.o 
Ostravska 29, c.p. 305,  
74770 Opava-Komarov 
Czech Republic 
Teva Operations Poland Sp. Z o.o. 
ul. Mogilska 80 
31-546 Krakow 
Poland 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product not subject to medical prescription  
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
•  Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
•  Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
12 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 5 mg film-coated tablets 
desloratadine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 5 mg desloratadine. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. Read the package leaflet before use. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
7 film-coated tablets 
10 film-coated tablets 
14 film-coated tablets 
15 film-coated tablets 
20 film-coated tablets 
30 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Swallow the tablet whole with water.  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30 °C. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
ratiopharm GmbH 
Graf-Arco-Straße 3 
89079 Ulm 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/11/746/001 - Cartons of 7 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVdC/aluminium blisters 
EU/1/11/746/002 - Cartons of 10 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVdC/aluminium blisters 
EU/1/11/746/003 - Cartons of 14 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVdC/aluminium blisters 
EU/1/11/746/004 - Cartons of 15 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVdC/aluminium blisters 
EU/1/11/746/005 - Cartons of 20 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVdC/aluminium blisters 
EU/1/11/746/006 - Cartons of 30 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVdC/aluminium blisters 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product not subject to medical prescription 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
For adults 
For treatment of allergic rhinitis 
For treatment of chronic idiopathic urticaria, initially diagnosed by a doctor  
Talk to your doctor if you do not feel better or if you feel worse after 7 days. 
Pregnancy and breastfeeding, please see package leaflet. 
Take one tablet per day.  
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
16. 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
<Not applicable.> 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
<Not applicable.> 
17 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 5 mg film-coated tablets 
desloratadine 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
ratiopharm 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 5 mg film-coated tablets 
desloratadine 
For adults 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
Always take this medicine exactly as described in this leaflet or as your doctor or pharmacist has told 
you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Ask your pharmacist if you need more information or advice. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
You must talk to a doctor if you do not feel better or if you feel worse after 7 days. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Desloratadine ratiopharm is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Desloratadine ratiopharm 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Possible side effects 
How to store Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Desloratadine ratiopharm is and what it is used for 
What Desloratadine ratiopharm is 
Desloratadine ratiopharm contains desloratadine which is an antihistamine. 
How Desloratadine ratiopharm works 
Desloratadine ratiopharm is an antiallergy medicine that does not make you drowsy. It helps control 
your allergic reaction and its symptoms. 
When Desloratadine ratiopharm should be used 
Desloratadine ratiopharm relieves symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis (inflammation of the 
nasal passages caused by an allergy, for example, hay fever or allergy to dust mites) in adults. These 
symptoms include sneezing, runny or itchy nose, itchy palate, and itchy, red or watery eyes. 
Desloratadine ratiopharm is also used to relieve the symptoms associated with chronic idiopathic 
urticaria (a skin condition with unknown cause), initially diagnosed by your doctor. These symptoms 
include itching and hives. 
Relief of these symptoms lasts a full day and helps you to resume your normal daily activities and 
sleep. 
You must talk to a doctor if you do not feel better or if you feel worse after 7 days. If you notice 
difficulties in breathing or swelling of lips, tongue or throat you must talk to a doctor immediately. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Desloratadine ratiopharm  
Do not take Desloratadine ratiopharm 
• 
if you are allergic to desloratadine, loratadine or any of the other ingredients of this medicine 
(listed in section 6). 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Desloratadine ratiopharm: 
• 
• 
if you have poor kidney function or severe liver disease. 
if you have medical or familial history of seizures. 
If you suffer from chronic idiopathic urticaria, this should be diagnosed by your doctor before taking 
Desloratadine ratiopharm. 
Use in children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to adolescents and children below 18 years of age.  
Other medicines and Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
There are no known interactions of Desloratadine ratiopharm with other medicines. 
Desloratadine ratiopharm with food, drink and alcohol 
Desloratadine ratiopharm may be taken with or without a meal.  
Use caution when taking Desloratadine ratiopharm with alcohol. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine.  
Taking Desloratadine ratiopharm is not recommended if you are pregnant.  
Your doctor will decide if you should stop breast-feeding your baby or stop treatment with 
Desloratadine ratiopharm. 
There is no data available on male/female fertility. 
Driving and using machines 
At the recommended dose, this medicine is not expected to affect your ability to drive or use 
machines. Although most people do not experience drowsiness, it is recommended not to engage in 
activities requiring mental alertness, such as driving a car or operating machinery until you have 
established your own response to the medicinal product.  
Desloratadine ratiopharm contains lactose and sodium 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicinal product. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’. 
3. 
How to take Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Always take this medicine exactly as described in this leaflet or as your doctor or pharmacist has told 
you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
The recommended dose is one tablet once a day with water. 
The tablet may be taken with or without food. Swallow the tablet whole. 
The duration of treatment depends on the type, duration and course of your complaints. You must talk 
to a doctor if you do not feel better or if you feel worse after 7 days. If you notice difficulties in 
breathing or swelling of lips, tongue or throat you must talk to a doctor immediately. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If your symptoms of allergic rhinitis used to last for less than 4 days per week or for less than 4 weeks 
in the past, please use this medicine until your symptoms are resolved. You can start again to use this 
medicine, when the symptoms return. 
If your allergic symptoms used to last for a longer period in the past (4 days or more per week and for 
more than 4 weeks), continued treatment during the allergen exposure period may be necessary. 
For chronic idiopathic urticaria, a treatment for more than 6 weeks may be necessary, depending on 
your symptoms. If symptoms return after stopping the treatment, you can take this medicine again. 
If you take more Desloratadine ratiopharm than you should 
No serious problems are expected with accidental overdose. However, if you take more Desloratadine 
ratiopharm than you should, tell your doctor or pharmacist immediately. 
If you forget to take Desloratadine ratiopharm 
If you forget to take your dose on time, take it as soon as possible and then go back to your regular 
dosing schedule. Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
The following side effects are very rare, but you must stop taking this medicine and seek urgent 
medical advice straight away if you notice them: 
• 
severe allergic reactions (difficulty in breathing, wheezing, itching, hives and swelling) 
Other side effects that may occur: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
fatigue 
dry mouth 
headache 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
rash 
pounding or irregular heartbeat, fast heartbeat 
stomach ache, feeling sick (nausea), vomiting, upset stomach, diarrhoea 
dizziness, drowsiness, inability to sleep, seizures, restlessness with increased body movement 
muscle pain 
hallucinations 
liver inflammation, abnormal liver function tests 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
• 
• 
unusual weakness 
yellowing of the skin and/or eyes 
increased sensitivity of the skin to the sun, even in case of hazy sun, and to UV light, for instance to 
UV lights of a solarium 
slow heartbeat, changes in the way the heart beats 
abnormal behaviour, aggression 
weight increased, increased appetite 
depressed mood 
dry eyes 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Reporting of side effects 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.  By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice any change in the appearance of the tablets. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Desloratadine ratiopharm contains  
- 
- 
The active substance is desloratadine. Each film-coated tablet contains 5 mg desloratadine. 
The other ingredients are: 
Tablet core: poloxamer type 188, citric acid monohydrate, microcrystalline cellulose, maize 
starch, croscarmellose sodium, lactose monohydrate (see section 2 “Desloratadine ratiopharm 
contains lactose and sodium”), talc. 
Film-coating: polyvinyl alcohol (part. hydrolysed), titanium dioxide (E171), 
macrogol/PEG 3350, talc and indigo carmine aluminium lake (E132). 
What Desloratadine ratiopharm looks like and contents of the pack 
Round, biconvex, blue film-coated tablets. 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 5 mg film-coated tablets are supplied in PVC/PVdC/aluminium blister packs 
of 7, 10, 14, 15, 20 and 30 film-coated tablets.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
ratiopharm GmbH 
Graf-Arco-Straße 3 
89079 Ulm 
Germany 
Manufacturer 
Merckle GmbH 
Ludwig-Merckle-Straße 3 
89143 Blaubeuren 
Germany 
or 
Teva Pharmaceutical Works Private Limited Company 
Pallagi út 13 
4042 Debrecen 
Hungary 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or 
Pharmachemie B.V. 
Swensweg 5 
2031 GA Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
or 
Teva Czech Industries s.r.o. 
Ostravaská  29, c.p. 305 
74770 Opava-Komárov 
Czech Republic 
or 
Teva Operations Poland Sp. z o.o. 
ul. Mogilska 80 
31-546 Kraków 
Poland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG 
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373 
Lietuva 
UAB Teva Baltics 
Tel: +370 52660203 
България 
Тева Фарма ЕАД 
Тел: +359 24899585 
Česká republika 
Teva Pharmaceuticals CR, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 251007111 
Danmark 
Teva Denmark A/S  
Tlf: +45 44985511 
Deutschland 
ratiopharm GmbH 
Tel: +49 73140202 
Eesti 
UAB Teva Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 6610801 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
ratiopharm GmbH 
Allemagne/Deutschland 
Tél/Tel: +49 73140202 
Magyarország 
Teva Gyógyszergyár Zrt. 
Tel: +36 12886400 
Malta 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
L-Irlanda 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Nederland 
Teva Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31 8000228400 
Norge 
Teva Norway AS 
Tlf: +47 66775590 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα 
Specifar Α.Β.Ε.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
España 
Teva Pharma, S.L.U. 
Tel: +34 913873280 
France 
Teva Santé 
Tél: +33 155917800 
Hrvatska 
Pliva Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 13720000 
Ireland 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Ísland 
Teva Pharma Iceland ehf. 
Sími: +354 5503300 
Italia  
Teva Italia S.r.l.  
Tel: +39 028917981 
Κύπρος 
Specifar Α.Β.Ε.Ε. 
Ελλάδα 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
Latvija 
UAB Teva Baltics filiāle Latvijā 
Tel: +371 67323666 
Österreich 
ratiopharm Arzneimittel Vertriebs-GmbH 
Tel: +43 1970070 
Polska 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 223459300 
Portugal 
ratiopharm - Comércio e Indústria de Produtos 
Farmacêuticos, Lda. 
Tel: +351 214767550 
România 
Teva Pharmaceuticals S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 212306524 
Slovenija 
Pliva Ljubljana d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 15890390 
Slovenská republika 
TEVA Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 257267911 
Suomi/Finland 
Teva Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 201805900 
Sverige 
Teva Sweden AB 
Tel: +46 42121100 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
