EMA/11520/2021 
EMEA/H/C/002404
Desloratadine ratiopharm (desloratadine)
An overview of Desloratadine ratiopharm and why it is authorised in the EU
What is Desloratadine ratiopharm and what it is used for?
Desloratadine ratiopharm is a medicine used in adults to relieve the symptoms of the following 
conditions:


allergic rhinitis (inflammation of the nasal passages caused by an allergy, for example hay fever or 
allergy to dust mites).
chronic idiopathic urticaria (a recurrent skin condition with symptoms including itching and hives) 
as diagnosed by a doctor. ‘Idiopathic’ means that the cause of the disease is unknown.
Desloratadine ratiopharm contains the active substance desloratadine and is a ‘generic medicine’. This 
means that Desloratadine ratiopharm contains the same active substance and works in the same way 
as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Aerius. For more information on generic 
medicines, see the question-and-answer document here.
How is Desloratadine ratiopharm used?
Desloratadine ratiopharm can be obtained without a prescription. The medicine is available as tablets.
The recommended dose is one tablet once a day. The duration of treatment depends on the condition 
being treated.
If symptoms persist for more than 7 days or worsen, patients should seek medical advice. For more 
information about using Desloratadine ratiopharm, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist.
How does Desloratadine ratiopharm work?
The active substance in Desloratadine ratiopharm, desloratadine, is an antihistamine. It works by 
blocking the receptors to which histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms, 
normally attaches itself. When the receptors are blocked, histamine cannot have its effect, and this 
leads to a decrease in the symptoms of allergy.
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
How has Desloratadine ratiopharm been studied?
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Aerius, and do not need to be repeated for Desloratadine 
ratiopharm. 
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Desloratadine ratiopharm. 
The company also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. 
Two medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the 
body and are therefore expected to have the same effect.
What are the benefits and risks of Desloratadine ratiopharm?
Because Desloratadine ratiopharm is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference 
medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s.
Why is Desloratadine ratiopharm authorised in the EU?
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Desloratadine 
ratiopharm has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Aerius. Therefore, 
the Agency’s view was that, as for Aerius, the benefits of Desloratadine ratiopharm outweigh the 
identified risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Desloratadine ratiopharm?
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Desloratadine ratiopharm have been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet.
As for all medicines, data on the use of Desloratadine ratiopharm are continuously monitored. Side 
effects reported with Desloratadine ratiopharm are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken 
to protect patients.
Other information about Desloratadine ratiopharm
Desloratadine ratiopharm received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 13 January 
2012.
Further information on Desloratadine ratiopharm can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/desloratadine-ratiopharm. 
Information on the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website.
This overview was last updated in 01-2021.
Desloratadine ratiopharm (desloratadine) 
EMA/11520/2021 
Page 2/2
