17 November 2011 
EMA/41222/2012  
Assessment report 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
International nonproprietary name: desloratadine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002404 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents 
List of Abbreviations.................................................................................... 3 
1 
1.1 
1.2 
2 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
3 
4 
Background information on the procedure
Submission of the dossier
Steps taken for the assessment of the product
............................................. 4 
.................................................................................. 4 
...................................................... 5 
Scientific discussion
Introduction
Quality aspects
Non- Clinical aspects
Clinical Aspects
Pharmacovigilance
............................................................................... 7 
..................................................................................................... 7 
................................................................................................. 7 
....................................................................................... 10 
............................................................................................... 11 
.......................................................................................... 17 
Benefit-Risk Balance
............................................................................ 18 
Recommendation
.................................................................................. 18 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Assessment report  
EMA/41222/2012  
Page 2/19 
 
 
 
 
List of Abbreviations 
AUC 0-72h 
AUC inf 
BE 
BMI 
CHMP 
CI 
C max 
CV 
ERA 
EU 
GCP 
K el 
LC 
MA 
MS 
SmPC 
T1/2 
Tmax 
Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to 72 hours 
Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity 
Bioequivalence 
Body Mass Index 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
Confidence Interval 
Maximum plasma concentration 
Coefficient of variation 
Environmental Risk Assessment 
European Union 
Good Clinical Practice 
Elimination rate constant 
Liquid chromatography 
Marketing Authorisation 
Mass spectrometry 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Elimination half-life 
Time to maximum plasma concentration 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Assessment report  
EMA/41222/2012  
Page 3/19 
 
 
 
 
1  Background information on the procedure 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant ratiopharm GmbH submitted on 31 January 2011 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Desloratadine ratiopharm, through the 
centralised procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally 
authorised product’. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 
28 September 2010. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has been 
granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 
2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: Relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis 
and urticaria. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Aerius instead of non-clinical and clinical 
data unless justified otherwise. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Not applicable. 
Information relating to Orphan Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable. 
Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable. 
The chosen reference product is: 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Aerius, 5 mg, Film-coated tablets 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: Schering-Plough Europe 
  Date of authorisation:  15/01/2001  
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Union 
  Union Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/160/001 
■  Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Aerius, 5 mg, Film-coated tablets 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: Schering-Plough Europe 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Assessment report  
EMA/41222/2012  
Page 4/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Date of authorisation:  15/01/2001  
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Union 
  Union Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/160/001 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Aerius, 5 mg, Film-coated tablets 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: Schering-Plough Europe 
  Date of authorisation: 15/01/2001   
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Union 
  Union Marketing authorisation number(s): EU/1/00/160/001 
  Bioavailability study number(s): Study DEV353901-3DES08 80188 & 90044 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was Pieter Neels. 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 31 January 2011.  
The procedure started on 23 February 2011. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 May 2011.  
  During the meeting on 20-23 June 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 27 
June 2011. 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 22 July 2011. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 02 September 2011.  
  During the CHMP meeting on 19 – 22 September 2011, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 28 
September 2011. 
 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 05 October 2011.  
  During the CHMP meeting on 17 – 20 October, the CHMP agreed on a revised list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and by the applicant. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP revised consolidated List of Outstanding Issues 
on 26 October 2011. 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Assessment report  
EMA/41222/2012  
Page 5/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the revised List 
of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 03 November 2011.  
  During the meeting on  14 -17 November 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data 
submitted and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting 
a Marketing Authorisation to Desloratadine ratiopharm on 17 November 2011.  
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Assessment report  
EMA/41222/2012  
Page 6/19 
 
 
 
2  Scientific discussion 
2.1  Introduction 
The Marketing Authorization Application of Desloratadine ratiopharm 5 mg film-coated tablet is made 
under article 10(1) of directive 2001/83/EC. The drug product is a generic of the centrally authorised 
medicinal product Aerius 5 mg film-coated tablet. This reference medicinal product (MA holder 
Schering-Plough Europe) was authorised on 15th January 2001 via the centralised procedure in 
accordance to Article 8 of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The reference medicinal product Aerius is indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with allergic 
rhinitis and urticaria, like those proposed for Desloratadine ratiopharm. The recommended daily dose is 
5 mg in adults and adolescents. 
The active substance of the medicinal product is desloratadine. Desloratadine is a non-sedating, long-
acting histamine antagonist with selective peripheral H1-receptor antagonist activity. After oral 
administration, desloratadine selectively blocks peripheral histamine H1-receptors. The selectivity is 
achieved because the substance is excluded from the entry into the central nervous system. 
This application is a generic application, therefore, demonstration of therapeutic equivalence is shown 
by means of pharmacokinetic studies. The relative oral bioavailability of Desloratadine ratiopharm 5 
mg film-coated tablets and the European brand product Aerius 5mg  film-coated tablets (manufactured 
by SP Europe, Belgium) was established by comparing the single dose pharmacokinetics of 
desloratadine from the two formulations, under fasting conditions, in a randomised crossover study. 
Desloratadine ratiopharm is presented in twelve pack sizes: blisters of 7, 10, 14, 15, 20, 30, 40, 50, 
60, 90 and 100 tablets and bottles containing 250 tablets. At the time of the CHMP opinion, the 250 
tablets pack size does not exist for the reference product. The highest pack size of the reference 
product contains 100 tablets. Nevertheless, the proposed pack sizes are consistent with the dosage 
regimen and duration of use. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
2.2.1  Introduction 
Desloratadine  ratiopharm  is  available  as  5  mg  film-coated  tablets  for  oral  administration  containing 
desloratadine as the active ingredient. The full list of ingredients is defined in section 6.1 of the SPC. 
The  film-coated  tablets  are  blue,  round  biconvex  plain  on  both  sides  packed  either  in  PVC/PVdC/Alu 
blister or HDPE bottles with PP caps with desiccant. 
2.2.2  Active Substance 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, the active substance desloratadine is not described in the European 
Pharmacopoeia. The ASMF procedure is applied.  
The substance is freely soluble in dichloromethane, soluble in methanol and chloroform, very slightly 
soluble in acetone and ethyl acetate and practically insoluble in water. Desloratadine exists in two 
different polymorphic forms: Form I and Form II, but this has no clinical relevance as they are 
bioequivalent and have the same dissolution and stability profile. 
The active substance is sourced from two different manufacturers. The manufacturing processes 
produce consistently the same ratio of crystalline forms of desloratadine.  
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Assessment report  
EMA/41222/2012  
Page 7/19 
 
 
 
Manufacture 
The synthetic processes of desloratadine include one chemical step followed by purification. 
The satisfactory quality of the starting material (loratadine) supplied by different manufacturers is 
supported by either a Certificate of Suitability from EDQM or by the ASMF. In the detailed description 
of manufacturing process of desloratadine reaction conditions, equipments and quantities of the used 
materials are provided precisely. Organic impurities and residual solvents are discussed. Impurity 
profiles of drug substance batches from both manufacturers are also provided. A specific discussion is 
provided with regard to genotoxic impurities. Based on the synthetic process, raw materials used and 
impurity profile of desloratadine, no potential genotoxic impurities are identified.  
Specification 
Specifications have been set that are appropriate in view of the Ph Eur Monograph ‘Substances for 
Pharmaceutical use’, ICH guidance. 
The specifications of the active substance as tested by the finished product manufacturer include the 
following test parameters: description, solubility, identification (HPLC and IR), water content (KF), 
residue on ignition, heavy metals, related substances (HPLC), assay (HPLC), particle size and residual 
solvents (GC). 
Batch analysis results of at least 3 batches from each manufacturer demonstrate compliance with the 
proposed specification and indicate that the manufacturing process followed by both manufacturers is 
under control. 
Stability 
Satisfactory stability data of three batches from each manufacturer of the active substance stored in 
their proposed commercial packaging at 25°C/ 60 % RH or 30°C/ 65 % RH and 40°C/ 75 % RH, have 
been provided to support the proposed re-test period of 24 months and 36 months without any special 
storage condition. All results comply with the specifications and no trends are observed. 
2.2.3  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 5 mg film-coated tablets are a conventional immediate release 
pharmaceutical form. The objective was to develop a tablet formulation containing desloratadine that is 
essentially similar to the reference product Aerius 5mg film-coated tablets.  
The drug substance desloratadine is slightly soluble in water, soluble in toluene, isopropanol, 0.1M HCl, 
ethanol and very soluble in methanol. Desloratadine can exist in two known polymorphic forms (i.e. 
form I & II). Both forms are stable and bioequivalent. The two forms have been characterized with 
infrared spectroscopy and differential scanning calorimetry.  Particle size distribution is controlled by 
the drug product manufacturer in the drug substance.  
The chosen excipients are microcrystalline cellulose and lactose monohydrate, maize starch, 
poloxamer, citric acid monohydrate, sodium croscarmellose, talc, purified water and Opadry II Blue 
film-coating including indigo carmine (E132) as colorant for product identification. All the excipients are 
compendial grade. There are no compatibility concerns with the proposed excipients, as is 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Assessment report  
EMA/41222/2012  
Page 8/19 
 
 
 
 
demonstrated in long-term and accelerated testing and supporting compatibility screening studies 
during 4 weeks at 50°C & 40°C/75% RH. 
The primary packaging for Desloratadine Ratiopharm 5mg film-coated tablets consists of PVC/PVdC/Alu 
blister packs.. The two are sealed together to form the blister pack. Technical specifications describe 
the requirements to which the specified blister pack lid and bottom foils have to comply: visual 
inspection of material and dimensions. IR-spectra are provided. Certificates of analysis of the 
packaging materials issued from the supplier are presented. 
The drug product is also packed in white 50 ml HDPE bottles closed with twist-off cap in PP with 
desiccant. Technical specifications describe the requirements to which the HDPE bottles and twist-off 
caps have to comply: dimensions. IR-spectra are provided. Certificates of conformance of the 
packaging materials issued from the supplier are presented. The HDPE and PP materials fulfill the Ph. 
Eur. requirements 3.1.3. & 3.2.2. and EC regulation 2002/72 EEC. 
Adventitious agents 
The applicant declares that lactose monohydrate is derived from milk and is therefore compliant with 
the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of Transmitting Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy 
Agents Via Human and Veterinary Medicinal Products (EMEA/410/01 Rev. 2). No excipients derived 
from human origin have been used. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process is a conventional granulation technology consisting of granulation followed 
by mixing and tabletting steps and film coating. The manufacturing formula and flow chart are 
presented. The main process steps are supervised by suitable in-process controls and their acceptance 
criteria are specified.  
The process validation results of production batches were not provided, the process validation protocol 
at production scale is however provided. The first three commercial batches will be produced and 
subjected to validation as outlined in the validation protocol. Process evaluation has been carried out 
on pilot scale batches. Results of tested parameters are batch to batch comparable and are within 
proposed limits. The results verify that the process assures adequate batch to batch consistency. 
Product Specification  
The specification of the drug product are acceptable and include: appearance, assay (HPLC), uniformity 
of dosage units, identification by HPLC and UV, related substances (HPLC), dissolution and 
microbiological purity. The finished product specifications are standard for immediate release tablets. 
The proposed test procedures and acceptance criteria comply with the requirements of the Ph.Eur. and 
ICH guidelines. All tests included in the specification have been satisfactorily described and validated. 
Certificates of analysis of pilot batches manufactured with the source of active substance are provided. 
The batch analysis results show that the finished product meets the proposed specifications and 
confirm the consistency & uniformity of manufacture indicating that the process is under control. 
Stability of the product 
The conditions used in the stability studies are in accordance with the ICH stability guideline (25°C/ 60 
% RH and 40°C/ 75 % RH) and the packaging similar to that proposed for the market. The control 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Assessment report  
EMA/41222/2012  
Page 9/19 
 
 
 
 
tests and specifications of drug product are adequately drawn up. Photostability tests were performed 
on two batches and showed no significant degradation. Based on the stability data provided the 
proposed shelf-life of 3 years can be granted.  
In-use stability study has been performed on 2 pilot batches packed in open HDPE bottles stored for 6 
months at 25°C/60%RH. The tested parameters are appearance, identity, moisture content, assay and 
degradation products, dissolution and microbial purity. No trend in stability is observed during storage 
in open bottles. Based on these stability data in open bottles, an in-use shelf life of 6 months is set. 
2.2.4  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug product have 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance. 
2.2.5  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has been 
presented to give reassurance on viral/TSE safety. 
2.2.6  Recommendation(s) for future quality development   
Not applicable. 
2.3  Non- Clinical aspects   
2.3.1  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity 
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Assessment report  
EMA/41222/2012  
Page 10/19 
 
 
 
2.3.2  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Desloratadine ratiopharm 5 mg film-coated tablets manufactured by ratiopharm GmbH 
is considered unlikely to result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all 
desloratadine containing products and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, 
the ERA is expected to be similar and not increased. 
2.3.3  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. The ERA is expected to be similar 
and not increased. 
2.4  Clinical Aspects  
2.4.1  Introduction 
This is an application for film-coated tablets containing desloratadine. To support the marketing 
authorisation application the applicant conducted one pivotal single dose bioequivalence study with 
cross-over design under fasting conditions. This study was the pivotal study for the assessment. In 
addition, one pilot comparative bioavailability study was conducted. 
No formal scientific advice by the CHMP was given for this medicinal product. For the clinical 
assessment the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1) in 
its current version is of particular relevance. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. The applicant 
has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were 
carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted one pilot bioavailability study and one pivotal 
bioequivalence study.  
The pilot bioavailability study, which was a single center, randomised, single-dose, open-label, 3-way 
crossover study, was performed to compare the rate and extent of absorption of two test desloratadine 
formulations versus Aerius, the reference 5 mg desloratadine tablet, under fasting conditions.. The 
objective was to assess the variability of the drug and to optimize the study design for the definitive 
bioequivalence study. The formulation of Test 1 (A) in the pilot study was identical to the formulation 
of the test medication in the pivotal study. 
The design of the pivotal bioequivalence study is described in Table 1. It should be noted that two 
reference products were investigated, one of which was from the EU which is therefore the only one 
relevant for the present application.  
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Assessment report  
EMA/41222/2012  
Page 11/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1.  Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Type of Study 
BE 
Study Identifier 
90044  
Objective(s) of the 
Study 
Compare the rate and extent of absorption of desloratadine ratiopharm 5 
mg film-coated tablet and Aerius 5 mg film-coated tablet (Reference 1 
from Schering Canada Inc., Canada and Reference 2 from Schering-
Plough, France), administered as a 1 x 5 mg tablet, under fasting 
conditions. 
Study Design and Type 
of control 
Single centre, randomised, single-dose, blinded, 3-way crossover 
bioequivalence study 
Test Product(s); 
Dosage Regimen; 
Route of 
Administration 
Test (A): Desloratadine ratiopharm 5 mg film-coated tablets; 
Dose: 1 x 5 mg 
Route of Administration: Oral 
Reference 1 (B): Aerius 5 mg film-coated tablets; (Schering-Plough 
Canada Inc., Canada) 
Dose: 1 x 5 mg 
Route of Administration: Oral 
Reference 2 (C): Aerius 5 mg immediate-release film-coated tablets; 
(Schering-Plough, France) 
Dose: 1 x 5 mg 
Route of Administration: Oral 
Number of subjects 
Enrolled and randomised: 24 (15 females and 9 males) 
Drop-out: 0 (elected to withdraw) 
Withdrawal: 0 (was withdrawn) 
Completed: 24 
Safety population: 24 
Pharmacokinetic population : 24 
Healthy Subjects or 
Diagnosis of Patients 
The 24 subjects enrolled and randomised were healthy, adult subjects, 
aged ≥ 18 and ≤ 55 years; body mass indices ≥ 19.0 and < 29.0 kg/m2. 
Duration of Treatment 
A single oral dose of desloratadine as a 1 x 5 mg tablet was administered 
in each study period. The treatment phases were separated by washout 
periods of 21 days. 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Assessment report  
EMA/41222/2012  
Page 12/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study status; Type of 
Report 
Complete 
2.4.2  Pharmacokinetics  
Methods 
Study design  
Study 90044 was a single centre, randomised, single-dose, blinded, 3-way crossover bioequivalence 
study under fasting conditions.  
Twenty-four healthy male (n=9) and female (n=15) subjects, aged 21-55 years, were enrolled into the 
study. Each subject received a single dose (5 mg) of the test (A), reference 1 (B) and reference 2 (C) 
desloratadine formulations. The subjects were confined within the facility at least 10 hours prior to 
dose and until 24 hours post-dose during each period. A randomisation scheme was included in the 
report. After an overnight fast of at least 10 hours, subjects were administered the study drug (a 
single oral dose of test or the reference product as per randomization schedule) with approximately 
240 mL of drinking water in each period. Fasting was continued for 4 hrs after dosing. Drinking water 
was not allowed for 2 hour pre-dose to 2 hours post-dose. Thereafter, it was allowed at all times. For 
each subject, there were 3 dosing periods, separated by a washout period of 21 days. 
All blood samples were drawn into blood collection tubes (1 x 6 mL) containing EDTA prior to drug 
administration and 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 5, 5.5, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48, and 72 hours post-dose 
in each period. There were two ambulatory visits at 48.00 and 72 hours post dose in each period. 
Blood samples were cooled in an ice bath and centrifuged. Aliquots were transferred to a freezer, 
pending transfer to the bioanalytical facility.  
The study was conducted by Anapharm Inc., Québec, Canada,  between 20/4/2009 and 4/6/2009. 
Test and reference products  
Desloratadine 5 mg film-coated tablets (Test (A) manufactured by ratiopharm Private Limited, GOA, 
India for ratiopharm GmbH, Germany (batch number V0350803, manufacturing date: November 2008, 
expiry date: October 2009, retest date: October 2009) have been compared to Aerius 5 mg film-
coated tablets (Reference 1 (B): manufactured by Schering-Plough Canada Inc., Canada (batch 
number 8STBC20, manufacturing date: not available, expiry date: May 2010) and Aerius 5 mg film-
coated tablets (Reference 2 (C): manufactured by Schering-Plough, France (batch number 8048, 
manufacturing date: not available, expiry date: January 2010). 
For the present application, only Reference 2 (c) is relevant and will be reported, as this is a reference 
product from the EU. 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Assessment report  
EMA/41222/2012  
Page 13/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Population studied   
Twenty-four (24) adult, male and female white,healthy human subjects, who met the inclusion and 
exclusion criteria as described in the protocol, were enrolled in study 90044. The mean age, weight, 
height and BMI of the study subjects was 41 years (range 21 to 55 years), 68.2 kg (range 51.3 to 93.4 
kg), 165.7 cm (range 152.5 to 181.5 cm) and 24.6 kg/m2 (range 20.0 – 28.7 kg/m2) respectively.  
Of the 24 subjects who were dosed, all completed the study. In accordance with the study protocol, 
data from all subjects who completed at least 2 periods, including one test and one reference products, 
and for whom the pharmacokinetic profile was adequately characterised were used for pharmacokinetic 
and statistical analysis. 
Analytical methods   
Plasma samples were analysed for desloratadine using a validated gas-liquid chromatographic/nitrogen 
phosphorus detection method  with desloratadine-d5 as internal standard. Automated solid phase 
extraction (with Oasis MCX 10 mg extraction plates) was used for sample preparation. The method was 
validated for both desloratadine and 3-hydroxy desloratadine in human plasma and a validation report 
was provided (Project number 45081GNC (revision 05). Different partial validations were performed 
including the transfer of the method to another laboratory, changes in the original calibration range 
and a change in anticoagulant (EDTA K2 plasma instead of EDTA K3 plasma). The results shown below 
for accuracy and precision, long-term stability of desloratadine and IS in solution at -20°C and long-
term stability of desloratadine in matrix at -20°C and at -80°C are those obtained in EDTA K2 plasma; 
the other results were obtained in EDTA K3 plasma.  
The calibration curve for desloratadine ranged from about 25.00 pg/mL to 5000 pg/mL. A weighted 
linear regression (1/C²) was performed to determine the concentrations of the samples. Intra-assay 
and inter-assay precision and accuracy were tested. 
The results of the stability investigations were satisfactory. Overall, the bioanalytical method was 
considered adequately validated. 
Pharmacokinetic Variables  
The pharmacokinetic variables for Study 90044 were AUC0-72h, AUC0-inf, Cmax, Tmax, residual area, 
T1/2el and Kel. The bioanalytical analyte was desloratadine. 
The area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC0-t) was determined by the linear 
trapezoidal rule.  
Statistical methods   
ANOVA was performed on ln-transformed AUC0-72h, AUC0-inf, and Cmax and untransformed Kel and 
T1/2 el. A non-parametric test (Friedman’s test) was carried out to compare the Tmax between 
treatments. Ratios of least-squares means (LSM) (A/B and A/C) and 90% geometric confidence 
intervals were calculated for ln-transformed AUC0-72h, AUC0-inf, and Cmax, for both uncorrected and 
potency-corrected data. Inter- and intra-subject CVs were also calculated.  
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Assessment report  
EMA/41222/2012  
Page 14/19 
 
 
 
 
 
Bioequivalence was to be concluded if the 90% geometric confidence intervals of the ratio of least-
squares means for ln-transformed AUC0-72h and Cmax were within the acceptable range of 80.00% to 
125.00%. 
All ANOVAs were performed with the SAS General Linear Models Procedure (GLM). The model included 
sequence, subject within sequence, period and treatment as factors. The sequence effect was tested 
using subjects within sequence effect as the error term. The treatment and period effects were tested 
against the residual mean square error. 
Results 
Summary of the pharmacokinetic results and the statistical analysis: 
Table 2.  Pharmacokinetic parameters (non-transformed values; arithmetic mean ± SD, tmax  median, 
range) 
Treatment 
AUC 0-t 
AUC 0-∞ 
xg/ml/h 
xg/ml/h 
Cmax 
xg/ml 
tmax 
h 
T1/2 
h 
Test 
(Desloratadine 
(A)) 
Reference 2 
(Aerius (C)) 
*Ratio (90% 
CI) 
CV (%) 
46849.39 ± 
54613.84 ± 
2379.88 ± 
3.26 (1.00-
21.07 ± 11.65 
22219.86 
36916.11 
880.26 
12.00) 
43784.02 ± 
51423.00 ± 
2212.70 ± 
4.50 (1.50-
21.40 ± 11.60 
22615.54 
37421.07 
826.16 
12.00) 
107.49 
(103.47-
111.66) 
7.72 
107.48 
(103.36-
111.77) 
7.93 
106.92 
(100.42-
113.84) 
12.98 
- 
- 
- 
- 
AUC 0-∞   area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
AUC 0-t   area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours  
C max   maximum plasma concentration  
T max  
T 1/2  
time for maximum concentration  
half-life  
*ln-transformed values 
# Reference 2(C), Aerius 5 mg film-coated tablets manufactured by Schering-Plough, France  
Safety data 
All formulations were well tolerated, with no major side effects and no relevant differences in safety 
profiles were observed between the preparations, particularly with respect to the number and pattern 
of adverse events. 
A total of 9 treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were reported by 5 of the 24 subjects who 
received at least one dose of the study medication (safety population). The breakdown by treatment 
group is as follows: 3 TEAEs reported by 12.5% (n=3) of the 24 subjects who received Treatment A, 2 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Assessment report  
EMA/41222/2012  
Page 15/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TEAEs reported by 8.3% (n=2) of the 24 subjects who received Treatment B, and 4 TEAEs reported by 
12.5% (n=3) of the 24 subjects who received Treatment C. 
The most commonly reported TEAEs were related to procedures (including "Procedural pain", “Post-
procedural swelling", and "Post- procedural haematoma") and were reported by 16.7% (n=4) of 
subjects who constituted the safety population (n=24). In addition, "Erythema" and "Headache" were 
also reported by 8.3% (n=2), each, of subjects who constituted the safety population. Of the 9 TEAEs 
reported, all were graded as mild. Of the 9 TEAEs reported, the relationship of 2 was judged as 
"possible" and 7 as "not related". 
No deaths, serious or significant adverse events were reported during this study. 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Desloratadine ratiopharm 5 mg film-coated tablets is 
considered bioequivalent with Aerius 5 mg film-coated tablets. 
2.4.3  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this  
application. 
2.4.4  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5  Discussion on Clinical aspects 
To support this generic application, one pilot bioavailability study and one pivotal bioequivalence study 
were performed.  
The pilot bioavailability study was performed to assess the variability of the drug and to optimize the 
study design for the definitive bioequivalence study. This single center, randomised, single-dose, open-
label, 3-way crossover study performed to compare the rate and extent of absorption of desloratadine 
5 mg tablets from two different batches of desloratadine ratiopharm with Aerius 5 mg tablets. The 
formulation of Test 1 (A) in the pilot study was identical to the formulation of the test medication in the 
pivotal study. 
The bioequivalence study, which is pivotal for the assessment, was a cross-over, two-period, two-
sequence, open-label study. This design was considered adequate. The study was conducted in fasting 
state, which is generally considered the most discriminatory approach for such immediate release 
preparations, and desloratadine (i.e. the parent compound) was the analyte for the pharmacokinetic 
assessment including conclusions on bioequivalence. 
The CHMP noted that light smokers (i.e. smoking less than 10 cigarettes per day) were allowed to 
participate in this study. This was acceptable since desloratadine is not reported to be neither a 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Assessment report  
EMA/41222/2012  
Page 16/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
substrate nor an inhibitor of CYP 1A2, the enzyme which is known to be induced during cigarettes and 
cigars smoking. 
The calculation of the pharmacokinetic parameters as well as their statistical evaluation is acceptable. 
Using truncated AUC (0-72h) is deemed appropriate. Relevant for the assessment was the comparison 
of the test product with the EU reference product. 
Overall, the study is in line with the requirements of the applicable Guideline on the Investigation of 
Bioequivalence.  
The 90% confidence interval for the ratio (test/reference) of the geometric least squares means for the 
log-transformed parameters AUC0-72h and C max were within the range of 80.00% to 125.00%. 
Bioequivalence between test product Desloratadine ratiopharm 5mg film-coated tablets with the 
reference product Aerius 5mg film-coated tablets was therefore established. 
The Applicant presented comparative dissolution profiles between the test and reference products used 
for bioequivalence study (biobatches n° V0350803 and n° 8048). Dissolution was found to be pH-
independent. The in vitro dissolution tests were carried out using the following analytical method:  
paddle apparatus, 900 mL, 50 rpm, 37°C, three pHs. 
For the test product, more than 85% of the drug substance was dissolved within 15 minutes at each 
pH; however, this was not true for the reference product (< 85% dissolved at each pH). Mathematical 
evaluation of the dissolution profiles using the similarity factor f2 showed a value below 50 at pH 4.5 
and 6.8.  
The dissolution studies supported that the test and the reference product have similar dissolution 
profiles.   
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP did not require the applicant to submit a risk management plan because the application 
concerns a medicinal product containing a known active substance for which no safety concern 
requiring additional risk minimisation activities has been identified. 
PSUR submission 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product. The PSUR of 
the reference medicinal product is on a 2-yearly cycle. The last data lock point for the reference 
medicinal product was 15.07.2011. 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Assessment report  
EMA/41222/2012  
Page 17/19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the 
basis of a double bridging making reference to Xylometazoline hydrochloride 0.1% nasal spray and 
Desloratadin Teva 5mg film-coated tablets. The bridging report submitted by the applicant has been 
found acceptable. 
3  Benefit-Risk Balance  
This application concerns a generic product. The reference product is indicated for the relief of 
symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis and urticaria. No non-clinical studies have been provided for 
this application but an adequate summary of the available non-clinical information for the active 
substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical perspective, this application does 
not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and 
safety of the active substance. The applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical aspects based on 
information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with a single centre, randomised, single-dose, 
blinded, 3-way crossover bioequivalence study. The study design was considered adequate to evaluate 
the bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with the respective European requirements.  
The products were studied using a crossover design with 24 healthy volunteers being administered an 
oral dose of 1 × 5 mg under fasting conditions in each study period. For each subject, there were 3 
dosing periods, separated by a washout period of 21 days. Subjects were confined to the clinic at least 
10 hours prior to dose and until 24 hours post-dose during each period. Each study period included a 
single-dose drug administration of either the test or the reference product. Choice of dose, sampling 
points, overall sampling time as well as wash-out period were adequate. 
The analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Desloratadine ratiopharm met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence 
when compared with Aerius. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the 
parameters AUC0-72h and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of 
80.00 to 125.00%. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded.  
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
4  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Desloratadine ratiopharm in the treatment of relief of symptoms 
associated with allergic rhinitis and urticaria is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of 
the marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Assessment report  
EMA/41222/2012  
Page 18/19 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Pharmacovigilance System  
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
Risk Management System  
Not applicable 
PSUR cycle 
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow PSURs submission schedule for the reference medicinal 
product. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable. 
Obligation to complete post-authorisation measures 
Not applicable. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States 
Not applicable. 
Desloratadine ratiopharm 
Assessment report  
EMA/41222/2012  
Page 19/19 
 
 
 
 
