EMEA/H/C/002435 
EPAR summary for the public 
Desloratadine Actavis 
desloratadine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Desloratadine Actavis. It 
explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Desloratadine Actavis. 
What is Desloratadine Actavis? 
Desloratadine Actavis is a medicine containing the active substance desloratadine. It is available as 
tablets (5 mg).  
Desloratadine Actavis is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Desloratadine Actavis is similar to a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Aerius. For more information 
on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Desloratadine Actavis used for? 
Desloratadine Actavis is used to relieve the symptoms of allergic rhinitis (inflammation of the nasal 
passages caused by an allergy, for example, hay fever or allergy to dust mites) or urticaria (a skin 
condition caused by an allergy, with symptoms including itching and hives). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Desloratadine Actavis used? 
The recommended dose for adults and adolescents (12 years of age and over) is 5 mg once a day. 
How does Desloratadine Actavis work? 
The active substance in Desloratadine Actavis, desloratadine, is an antihistamine. It works by blocking 
the receptors to which histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms, normally 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
attaches itself. When the receptors are blocked, histamine cannot have its effect, and this leads to a 
decrease in the symptoms of allergy. 
How has Desloratadine Actavis been studied? 
Because Desloratadine Actavis is a generic medicine, studies in patients have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Aerius. Two medicines are bioequivalent 
when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Desloratadine Actavis? 
Because Desloratadine Actavis is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Desloratadine Actavis been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Desloratadine Actavis has been shown 
to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Aerius. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as 
for Aerius, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Desloratadine 
Actavis be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Desloratadine Actavis 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Desloratadine Actavis on 13 January 2012. 
The full EPAR for Desloratadine Actavis can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Desloratadine Actavis, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 12-2011. 
Desloratadine Actavis  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
