EMEA/H/C/002419 
EPAR summary for the public 
Desloratadine Teva 
desloratadine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Desloratadine Teva. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Desloratadine Teva. 
What is Desloratadine Teva? 
Desloratadine Teva is a medicine containing the active substance desloratadine. It is available as 
tablets (5 mg). 
Desloratadine Teva is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Desloratadine Teva is similar to a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Aerius. For more information 
on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Desloratadine Teva used for? 
Desloratadine Teva is used to relieve the symptoms of allergic rhinitis (inflammation of the nasal 
passages caused by an allergy, for example, hay fever or allergy to dust mites) or urticaria (a skin 
condition caused by an allergy, with symptoms including itching and hives). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription.  
How is Desloratadine Teva used? 
The recommended dose for adults and adolescents (12 years of age and over) is one tablet once a day.  
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Desloratadine Teva work? 
The active substance in Desloratadine Teva, desloratadine, is an antihistamine. It works by blocking 
the receptors on which histamine, a substance in the body that causes allergic symptoms, normally 
fixes itself. When the receptors are blocked, histamine cannot have its effect, and this leads to a 
decrease in the symptoms of allergy. 
How has Desloratadine Teva been studied? 
Because Desloratadine Teva is a generic medicine, studies in patients have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Aerius. Two medicines are bioequivalent 
when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Desloratadine Teva? 
Because Desloratadine Teva is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Desloratadine Teva been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Desloratadine Teva has been shown to 
have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Aerius. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for 
Aerius, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Desloratadine Teva 
be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Desloratadine Teva 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Desloratadine Teva on 24 November 2011. 
The full EPAR for Desloratadine Teva can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Desloratadine Teva, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 10-2011. 
Desloratadine Teva  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
 
