Summary of the Risk Management Plan  
Summary of Risk Management Plan for DESLORATADINE RATIOPHARM 
5 mg film-coated tablets 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for DESLORATADINE RATIOPHARM 
5 mg film-coated tablets (hereinafter referred to as Desloratadine). The RMP details important 
risks of Desloratadine, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be 
obtained about Desloratadine's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Desloratadine's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Desloratadine should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Desloratadine should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Desloratadine's RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What It is used for 
Desloratadine is authorised in adults for the relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis, 
and chronic idiopathic urticaria initially diagnosed by a physician (see SmPC for the full 
indication). It contains desloratadine as the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of Desloratadine’s benefits can be found in 
Desloratadine’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, 
under the medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/desloratadine-ratiopharm. 
II. Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise the Risks  
Important risks of Desloratadine, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Desloratadine's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of desloratadine is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Desloratadine are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Desloratadine. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table 4: 
Summary of Safety Concerns 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
•  None 
Important potential risks 
•  Supraventricular tachyarrhythmia 
Missing information 
•  Use in lactation 
II.B Summary of Important Risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Desloratadine. 
II.C.2 Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for Desloratadine. 
 
