17 November 2011 
EMA/11666/2012 
Committee for medicinal products for human use (CHMP)  
Assessment report 
Desloratadine Actavis  
International nonproprietary name: Desloratadine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002435  
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all 
information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 6 
2.2 Quality aspects ................................................................................................... 6 
2.3 Non- clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 9 
2.4 Clinical aspects ................................................................................................. 10 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 15 
4. Recommendation................................................................................... 16 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use ..................................................... 16 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation ......................................... 16 
Desloratadine Actavis 
Assessment report  
EMA/11666/2012  
2
Page /16
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
CHMP  Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use 
EMA 
European Medicines Agency 
ERA  
Environmental Risk Assessment 
MA 
Marketing Authorisation 
MAH  Marketing Authorisation Holder 
PL 
Package Leaflet 
PSUR  Periodic Safety Update Report 
RMP 
Risk Management Plan 
Desloratadine Actavis 
Assessment report  
EMA/11666/2012  
3
Page /16
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Actavis  Group  PTC  ehf,  submitted  on  31  January  2011  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  for  Desloratadine  Actavis,  through  the 
centralised  procedure  under  Article  3  (3)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No.  726/2004–  ‘Generic  of  a  Centrally 
authorised product’. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 
21 October 2010. 
The  application  concerns  a  generic  medicinal  product  as  defined  in  Article  10(2)(b)  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC  and  refers  to  a  reference  product  for  which  a  Marketing  Authorisation  is  or  has  been 
granted  in  the  Union  on  the  basis  of  a  complete  dossier  in  accordance  with  Article  8(3)  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC.  
The  applicant  applied  for  the  following  indication:  relief  of  symptoms  associated  with  allergic  rhinitis 
and urticaria. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The  application  submitted  is  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete  quality  data  and  a 
bioequivalence  study  with  the  reference  medicinal  product  Aerius  instead  of  non-clinical  and  clinical 
unless justified otherwise. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Not applicable. 
Information relating to Orphan Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable. 
Market Exclusivity  
Not applicable. 
The chosen reference product is:  
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Aerius 5mg film-coated tablets 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: Schering-Plough Europe 
  Date of authorisation:  15-01-2001 
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/00/160/001-013 
■  Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Aerius 5mg film-coated tablets 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: Schering-Plough Europe 
  Date of authorisation:  15-01-2001 
Desloratadine Actavis 
Assessment report  
EMA/11666/2012  
4
Page /16
 
 
 
 
 
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation number: : EU/1/00/160/001-013 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force 
and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Aerius 5 mg Film-Coated Tablets 
 
  Marketing authorisation holder: Schering-Plough Europe 
  Date of authorisation: 15-01-2001 
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation number(s): EU/1/00/160/001-013 
  Bioavailability study number(s): 2007/10 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status  
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was:   János Borvendég 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 31 January 2011.  
The procedure started on 23 February 2011. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 May 2011. 
  During the meeting on 20-23 June 2011 the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 23 
June 2011. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 10 August 
2011. 
 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on  29 September 2011. 
  During the meeting on 17-20  October 2011 the CHMP agreed on a List of Outstanding Issues to be 
addressed in writing by the applicant.  
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 26 
October 2011. 
 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 4 November 2011. 
  During the meeting on 14-17 November 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
Marketing Authorisation to Desloratadine Actavis on 17 November 2011.  
Desloratadine Actavis 
Assessment report  
EMA/11666/2012  
5
Page /16
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
The Marketing Authorization Application of Desloratadine Actavis 5 mg film-coated tablet was 
submitted to the centralised procedure according to regulation (EC) No 726/2004, Article 3(3). The 
application has been made under Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. The drug product is a generic 
of the centrally authorised medicinal product Aerius 5 mg film-coated tablets. The reference medicinal 
products Aerius 5 mg tablets (MA holder Schering-Plough Europe) was centrally authorised on 15 
January 2001. 
The reference medicinal product is indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis 
and urticaria. The recommended daily dose is 5 mg in adults and adolescents. 
The active substance of the medicinal product is desloratadine. Desloratadine is a non-sedating, long-
acting histamine antagonist with selective peripheral H1-receptor antagonist activity. After oral 
administration, desloratadine selectively blocks peripheral histamine H1-receptors. The selectivity is 
achieved because the substance is excluded from the entry into the central nervous system. 
This application is a generic application, therefore, demonstration of therapeutic equivalence is shown 
by means of bioequivalence.  No new clinical studies are either required or submitted with this 
application. The Applicant provided a comprehensive overview of clinical data on desloratadine in 
clinical use based upon the conclusions of the relevant clinical studies published in the literature.  
The relative oral bioavailability of Desloratadine Actavis 5 mg film-coated tablets and the European 
brand product Aerius 5mg film-coated tablets (manufactured by SP Europe, Belgium ) was established 
by comparing the single dose pharmacokinetics of desloratadine from the two formulations, under 
fasting conditions, in a randomised crossover study. 
2.2 Quality aspects 
2.2.1 Introduction 
Desloratadine is available as 5 mg film-coated tablets for oral administration containing desloratadine 
as the active ingredient. The full list of ingredients is defined in section 6.1 of the SPC. The tablets are 
stored in polyamide/aluminium/polyvinyl chloride/aluminium foil blisters. 
2.2.2 Active Substance 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, the active substance desloratadine is not described in the European 
Pharmacopoeia. The Active substance Master File (ASMF) procedure is applied.  
The active substance is sourced from one manufacturer. 
Desloratadine is slightly soluble in water, sparingly soluble in methanol, ethanol, propylene glycol, 
acetonitrile and toluene. In acidic environments the solubility increases. Desloratadine exists in two 
different polymorphic forms: Form I and Form II. The manufacturing process produces consistently the 
same crystalline form or ratio of crystalline forms of desloratadine. Both crystalline forms have similar 
Desloratadine Actavis 
Assessment report  
EMA/11666/2012  
6
Page /16
 
 
 
 
 
solubility and therefore no difference in the bioavailability and performance of the product are 
expected.  
Manufacture 
During evaluation of this dossier, the starting materials have been re-defined to an earlier point of the 
synthesis and consequently additional information has been included in the Restricted and Applicant’s 
parts of the ASMF. The sources of the starting material have been provided. In the detailed description 
of the manufacturing process of desloratadine reaction conditions, equipments and quantities of the 
used materials are appropriately described. Organic and inorganic impurities as well as residual 
solvents of desloratadine drug substance are well discussed. Adequate in process controls are in place 
and appropriate specifications have been adopted for the starting materials, solvents and reagents.  
The validation procedures are in compliance with ICH Q2 requirements, so the methods are considered 
adequate for the control of the active substance on a routine basis.  
Specification 
The set specifications are appropriate in view of the Ph Eur Monograph ‘Substances for Pharmaceutical 
use’, the Q6A Guideline on Setting Specifications and the impurity discussion. The specification 
includes tests for appearance, identification (IR), loss on drying, melting range, sulphated ash, heavy 
metals, related substances (HPLC), residual solvents, polymorphism (XRD) and particle size. 
Limits of specified and unspecified related substances are set in line with ICH Q3A guidelines.  
Analytical tests are correctly drawn up and validated according ICH. Batch results confirm batch to 
batch consistency and uniformity of the quality of the substance and indicate that the process is under 
control. 
Stability 
The stability results of accelerated and long-term studies carried out under ICH conditions demonstrate 
the stability of the drug substance. The results of the long-term and accelerated studies on samples of 
6 representative batches stored for up to 48 months fulfil the proposed specification and justify the 
proposed retest period. The active substance is packed in primary clear PE bags and secondary black 
PE bags placed into fibre board drums. 
2.2.3 Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The aim of the product development was to formulate Desloratadine 5 mg tablets essentially similar, 
robust, stable and bioequivalent to the reference product. Desloratadine Actavis has the same 
qualitative composition and the same pharmaceutical form (film coated tablet) as the reference 
medicinal product Aerius. 
All excipients are described in the European Pharmacopoeia and its specifications and analytical 
procedures are also in accordance with the European Pharmacopoeia standards with the exception of 
Desloratadine Actavis 
Assessment report  
EMA/11666/2012  
7
Page /16
 
 
 
 
Opadry Blue which complies with an In-house monograph. Compliance with EU directive 2008/128/ EC 
has also been declared for Indigo Carmine Aluminium lake. 
Microcrystalline cellulose and pregelatinised maize starch used intragranular, colloidal anhydrous silica 
and talc used extragranular are applied in the tablet core. Opadry II Blue is a hypromellose based film 
coating. 
The active substance exists in different polymorphic forms. Both known polymorphic forms (I and II) 
have almost the same solubility characteristics, therefore the differences in the two drug substance 
sources are not relevant for the product performance.  
Satisfactory comparative impurity profiles have been presented for the test and reference products. 
Comparative in vitro dissolution profiles of the reference and test biobatches were performed using 
three dissolution medium and the results are comparable. Similar dissolution profiles were also 
observed at all three pH tested (pH 1.2, pH 4.8 and pH 6.8).  The dissolution profiles at pH 1.2 and 6.8 
proved to be similar without mathematical evaluation since more than 85% of desloratadine dissolved 
in 15 minutes.  
OPA/  Aluminium/  PVC  /Aluminum  blisters  were  selected  as  the  primary  packaging.  The  suitability  of 
this container closure system has been demonstrated by means of stability studies. 
Adventitious agents 
Not applicable 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process is a conventional direct compression technology where the main 
manufacturing steps are dry blending and compression followed by a coating step. 
The manufacturing formula, flow chart and description of the manufacturing process are presented 
The main process steps are supervised by suitable in-process controls and their acceptance criteria are 
specified.  
Batch analysis data on three pilot batches were within the specification limits and confirm both the 
consistency of production and good performance of the analysis methods. Therefore, the analytical 
tests are considered suitable, manufacturing process and analysis are well controlled.  
Product Specification  
The specification of the finished medicinal product is acceptable and includes tests for description, 
identification (HPLC, HPLC-DAD), uniformity of dosage units, average tablet mass, assay (HPLC), 
dissolution, impurities/degradation products and microbiological quality.  
The proposed test procedures and acceptance criteria comply with the requirements of the Ph.Eur. and 
ICH guidelines. All tests included in the specification have been satisfactorily described and validated. 
Certificates of analysis and typical IR spectra are presented. The batch analysis results of pilot batches 
confirm that the finished product meets the proposed specification. 
Stability of the product 
Desloratadine Actavis 
Assessment report  
EMA/11666/2012  
8
Page /16
 
 
 
 
Stability studies were carried out according to relevant CHMP/ICH stability guidelines. The control tests 
and specification of the drug product are adequately drawn up.  
3 pilot scale batches were stored for up to 12 and 6 months at long term (30±2°C/75±5%RH) and 
accelerated (40±2°C/75±5%RH) ICH conditions respectively. In addition to this, one production batch 
was stored for photostability at ICH conditions and the results demonstrated that the product is not 
sensitive to light.  
Based on these stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SPC are 
acceptable. It is confirmed that the start of shelf-life complies with the CHMP guideline Start of shelf-
life of the finished dosage form. 
2.2.4 Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Satisfactory information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug 
product has been presented. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of 
important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product 
should have a satisfactory and uniform performance. 
2.2.5 Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are satisfactorily controlled.  
2.2.6 Recommendation(s) for future quality development   
Not applicable. 
2.3 Non- clinical aspects   
2.3.1 Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity 
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2 Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Desloratadine Actavis manufactured by Actavis Group PTC ehf is considered unlikely to 
result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all desloratadine containing 
Desloratadine Actavis 
Assessment report  
EMA/11666/2012  
9
Page /16
 
 
 
 
 
 
products and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to 
be similar and not increased. 
2.3.3 Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. The ERA is expected to be similar 
and not increased. 
2.3.4 Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. The ERA is expected to be similar 
and not increased. 
2.4 Clinical aspects  
2.4.1 Introduction 
This is an application for film-coated tablets containing desloratadine. To support the marketing 
authorisation application the applicant conducted one bioequivalence study with cross-over design 
under fasting conditions. This study was the pivotal study for the assessment. 
No formal scientific advice by the CHMP was given for this medicinal product. For the clinical 
assessment the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1) in 
its current version is of particular relevance. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study.  
Table 2.  Tabular overview of clinical study  
Desloratadine Actavis 
Assessment report  
EMA/11666/2012  
10
Page /16
 
 
 
 
Type of Study 
BE 
Study Identifier 
2007/10 
Objective(s) of the 
To assess the bioequivalence of desloratadine 5 mg film-coated tablets of 
Study 
Actavis Group PTC ehf, Iceland and Aerius 5 mg film-coated tablets 
(Manufactured by Schering- Plough Europe, Belgium) in healthy adult 
subjects, under fasting conditions. 
Study Design and Type 
of control 
Single-dose, randomized, open-label, two treatment, two sequences, two 
period, cross-over study.   
Test Product(s); 
Test: 
Dosage Regimen; 
Route of 
Administration 
Desloratadine Actavis 5 mg film-coated tablets  
Reference: 
Aerius® 5 mg film-coated tablets  
Dose: 1 x 5 mg 
Mode of Administration: Oral under fasting conditions 
Number of subjects 
24 healthy adult male subjects were enrolled of which 21 were included in 
the statistical analysis.  
Healthy Subjects or 
Healthy male subjects; all non-smokers   
Diagnosis of Patients 
Duration of Treatment 
The study consisted of two study periods. All subjects were housed from 
at least 11 hours before dosing until after 72 hours post dose blood draw 
in both periods. Subjects were dosed with the test or the reference 
product in each period as determined by the randomization schedule.  
There was a washout period of 17 days between each drug 
administration. 
Study status; Type of 
Complete 
Report 
2.4.2 Pharmacokinetics  
Methods 
Study design  
Study 2007/10 was a single-dose, randomized, open-label, two-period, two-sequence, two-treatment, 
single-centre, cross-over, comparative bioavailability study of desloratadine 5 mg film-coated tablets of 
Actavis Group PTC ehf, Iceland and Aerius 5 mg film-coated tablets of SP Europe, Belgium, in healthy, 
adult subjects, under fasting conditions .  
Desloratadine Actavis 
Assessment report  
EMA/11666/2012  
11
Page /16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subjects were randomly assigned to the test or reference product and administered with a single oral 
dose of 5mg.  Treatments were separated by a washout period of 17 days. 
Prior to dosing subjects fasted overnight for at least 10 hours. Both formulations were taken with 240 
ml of water. Subjects were served meals/snacks 4 hours after dosing and at appropriate times 
thereafter. Water was not permitted 1 hour before dosing and until 1 hour after dosing, but was 
allowed at all other times.  
Twenty-four (24) healthy adult male subjects were enrolled in the study. Twenty (20) subjects 
completed the study. 
During each study period, blood samples were taken pre-dose and at 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5, 
5, 5.5, 6, 8, 10, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 72 h post dose in both periods. Plasma was harvested from these 
samples and analysed for desloratadine using validated LC/MS/MS method.  
The study was conducted at a single site at Lotus Labs Pvt. Ltd.; No. 02, M.M Towers; Jakkur 
Plantations; Yelahanka Hobli; Bangalore - 560 064, India. 
Test and reference products  
Desloratadine Actavis 5 mg film-coated tablets manufactured by Actavis Group PTC ehf, Iceland (batch 
no: F23183 (S47681, manufacturing date 13 March 2010; exp. date not communicated) has been 
compared to Aerius 5 mg film-coated tablets  manufactured by SP Europe, Belgium (batch no: 
9STBAB3B01, exp. Date August 2011). 
Population(s) studied   
Twenty-four (24) healthy male subjects were enrolled of which 20 completed the study. Three subjects 
voluntarily dropped-out while not completing the period II of treatment and one dropped out for 
personal reasons and his 72 hour sample was not collected. Twenty-one subjects were included in the 
pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis. 
The study population was defined as healthy male volunteers, aged between 18-55 years, having a 
body mass index between 18.5-30kg/m2, non-smokers, South-Asian race.  
There was no protocol violation reported including no substantial difference between the planned and 
actual sampling times. 
Analytical methods   
An LC/MS/MS assay for the determination of desloratadine in human plasma was developed and 
validated. The analytical method was calibrated between 21.3 to 4917  pg/mL  Precision and accuracy 
criteria were met.   
Planned stability study was mentioned in the bioanalytical report. 
Pharmacokinetic variables  
The primary pharmacokinetic parameters were AUC0-72h and C max. Other pharmacokinetic parameters, 
such as Kel, T1/2 and Tmax  . 
Desloratadine Actavis 
Assessment report  
EMA/11666/2012  
12
Page /16
 
 
Statistical methods   
ANOVA including sequence, subjects nested within sequence, period and treatment was to be 
performed on the ln-transformed data for AUC72 and Cmax and on the raw data for AUC72, Cmax. Tmax
were to be analyzed using an additional non-parametric test (Wilcoxon test).  
The 90% confidence intervals (CI) of the Test/Reference ratios of geometric means for AUC72 and C max 
were to be calculated based on the least square means. The predefined acceptance range for the 
conclusion on bioequivalence based on AUC0-72h and C max was 80-125 %. 
The contract research organisation that performed the study used the standard statistical model with 
industry standard statistical software (SAS). 
Results 
The summary of the pharmacokinetic results and statistical analysis are illustrated in the tables below. 
Table 3 
Pharmacokinetic parameters for desloratadine  
The geometric 90% confidence intervals for the ratios of AUC0-72 and C max for the test reference 
products versus the reference product fall within the pre-specified acceptance range for bioequivalence 
of 80-125%. 
The results show that the test product is bioequivalent to the reference product. 
Safety data 
There was one adverse event during the conduct of the study. The laboratory abnormality 
(documented as adverse event) detected during the end of the study safety analysis was raised liver 
enzymes (serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase and serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase). This 
adverse event was detected during the end of study safety analysis and hence could not be attributed 
Desloratadine Actavis 
Assessment report  
EMA/11666/2012  
13
Page /16
 
 
 
 
to either the test or the reference product. No serious adverse events were reported during the 
conduct of this study. 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study desloratadine Actavis 5 mg film-coated tablets is 
considered bioequivalent with Aerius 5 mg film-coated tablets. 
2.4.3 Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application.  
2.4.4 Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5 Discussion on clinical aspects 
A single bioequivalence study was performed to support this generic application.  The study has been 
conducted according to GCP. 
The study was a cross-over, two-period, two-sequence, open-label study. It was conducted in fasting 
state and the parent compound desloratadine was the analyte for the pharmacokinetic assessment 
including the conclusions on bioequivalence. Overall, the study design is in line with the regulatory 
requirements, in particular with the applicable Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1). 
The bioequivalence guideline sets the minimal sample size to 12 hence this requirement was met. 
Furthermore, the Applicant gave satisfactory explanations why data of three subjects (four for AUC) 
were not included into the final analysis.  
Truncated AUC (AUC0-72h) has been used as sampling period. This is in accordance with the 
bioequivalence guideline which considers a sampling period up to 72 hours is generally acceptable for 
oral immediate release formulations. The duration of the wash-out period was sufficiently long. 
The 90% confidence intervals for the ratio (test/reference) of the geometric least squares means for 
the log-transformed parameters AUC0-72h and C max were within the range of 80.00% to 125.00%.  
The bioanalytical method was adequately validated. Furthermore, the dissolution studies supported 
that the test and the reference product have similar dissolution profiles.   
Bioequivalence between the test product desloratadine Actavis 5mg film-coated tablets with the 
reference product Aerius 5mg film-coated tablets is considered established.  
2.4.6 Conclusions on clinical aspects 
The  bioequivalence  of  desloratadine  Actavis  5  mg  film-coated  tablets  to  the  reference  medicinal 
product Aerius 5 mg film-coated tablets by SP Europe can be regarded as established.  
Desloratadine Actavis 
Assessment report  
EMA/11666/2012  
14
Page /16
 
 
 
 
2.5 Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP did not require the applicant to submit a risk management plan because the application 
concerns a medicinal product containing a known active substance for which no safety concern 
requiring additional risk minimisation activities has been identified. 
PSUR submission 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product. The PSUR of 
the reference medicinal product is on a 2-yearly cycle. The last data lock point for the reference 
medicinal product was 15.07.2011 
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance  
This application concerns a generic version of desloratadine film-coated tablets. The reference product 
Aerius is indicated for relief of symptoms associated with allergic rhinitis and urticaria. No 
nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available 
nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a 
clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical 
overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was considered 
sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with a single-dose, randomized, open-label, two-
period, two-sequence, two-treatment, single-centre, crossover study under fasting conditions. The 
study design was considered adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of this formulation and was in 
line with the respective European requirements. Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sampling time 
as well as wash-out period were adequate. The analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and 
statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of desloratadine Actavis 5 mg film-coated tablets met the protocol-defined criteria 
for bioequivalence when compared with the Aerius 5 mg film-coated tablets. The point estimates and 
their 90% confidence intervals for the parameters AUC0-72 and Cmax were all contained within the 
protocol-defined acceptance range of 80.00 to 125.00%. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was 
demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
Desloratadine Actavis 
Assessment report  
EMA/11666/2012  
15
Page /16
 
 
 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Desloratadine Teva in the treatment of relief of symptoms associated 
with allergic rhinitis and urticaria is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Pharmacovigilance System  
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
Risk Management System  
Not applicable 
PSUR cycle 
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow PSURs submission schedule for the reference medicinal 
product.  
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
Desloratadine Actavis 
Assessment report  
EMA/11666/2012  
16
Page /16
 
 
 
 
