22 September 2011 
EMA/789509/2011  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Dexdor 
dexmedetomidine   
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/002268 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents 
Background information on the procedure
1. 
............................................ 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 5 
Information on Paediatric requirements ....................................................................... 5 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity.......................................................... 5 
Scientific Advice ....................................................................................................... 5 
Licensing status ....................................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 6 
Scientific discussion
.............................................................................. 6 
2. 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 8 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects .......................................................................................... 12 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 19 
2.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 29 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 64 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 72 
2.8. Significance/ Non-Conformity of paediatric studies ................................................ 76 
2.9. User consultation ............................................................................................. 76 
3. 
Benefit-Risk Balance
........................................................................... 76 
Benefits ..................................................................................................... 76 
Risks .................................................................................................................... 77 
Benefit Risk Balance................................................................................................ 78 
Recommendations
4. 
............................................................................... 78 
Outcome ............................................................................................................... 78 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use ..................................................... 79 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation ......................................... 79 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 2/79
 
 
 
 
  
List of abbreviations 
5 HT 
AE 
ASMF 
AUC 
AV 
BIS 
CABG  
CAM-ICU 
cAMP  
CFFT 
Cmax 
CNS 
CO 
CV 
CYP 
DBT 
dP/dT 
EC50 
ECG 
ED 50  
EMA 
GCP 
Gdex 
GLP 
GS 
H-1 
H-3 
hERG  
HPLC 
HR 
IC 50  
ICU 
IP 
IT 
ITT 
IV 
K i 
LLD 
MAH 
MAP 
MS 
NA 
NOAEL 
NONMEM 
PBT 
PD 
PEC SW 
P-gp 
PK 
PP 
RASS 
RM 
RR 
RSS 
SAE 
SAP II 
SC 
SD 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
5-hydroxytryptamine 
Adverse Event 
Active Substance Master File 
area under the concentration time curve 
Atrioventricular 
bispectral index 
Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting 
Delirium and confusion assessment method adapted for ICU 
cyclic 3’, 5’adenosine monophosphate 
Critical Flicker Fusion Treshold 
Maximum plasma concentration level 
Central Nervous System 
Cardiac Output 
Cardiovascular 
cytochrome P450 
Double blind treatment 
first derivative of left ventricular pressure 
half maximal effective concentration 
electrocardiogram 
dose producing 50% of the maximum effect  
European Medicines Agency 
Good Clinical Practice 
dexmedetomidine N-glucuronide metabolites 
Good Laboratory Practice 
gas chromatography 
O-glucuronide of hydroxylated N-methyl dexmedetomidine 
oxidised metabolite of dexmedetomidine 
human ether-à-go-go related gene  
High-performance liquid chromatography 
Heart Rate 
half maximal inhibitory concentration  
Intensive Care Unit  
Intraperitoneal 
Intratechal 
Intent to Treat 
Intravenous 
dissociation constant 
Lowest lethal dose 
marketing authorisation holder 
Mean Arterial Pressure 
mass spectrometry 
Noradrenaline 
No Observed Adverse Effect Level 
using nonlinear mixed effects modeling methodology  
Persistence, bioaccumulation and toxicity 
Pharmacodynamics 
Predicted Environmental Concentration in the Surface Water 
P-glycoprotein 
Pharmacokinetics 
Per Protocol 
Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale 
Repeated Measure 
Respiratory Rate 
Ramsay Sedation Scale 
Serious Adverse Event 
Simplified Acute Physiology Score II 
subcutaneous  
Standard Deviation 
Page 3/79
 
 
 
 
SmPC 
SOFA 
Sp02 
T1/2 
Tmax 
VAS 
Vss 
Summary of product characteristics 
Sequential Organ Failure Assessment 
Sturation of peripheral oxygen 
Eimination half life (biological half-life) 
time to reach maximum concentration following drug administration 
Visual Analogue Scale 
Volume of distribution at steady state 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 4/79
 
 
 
 
1. Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Orion  Corporation  submitted  on  29  September  2010  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Dexdor, through the centralised procedure 
under Article 3 (2)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was 
agreed  upon  by  the  EMA/CHMP  on  18  December  2005.  The  eligibility  to  the  centralised  procedure 
under  Article  3(2)(b)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004  was  based  on  demonstration  of  significant 
therapeutic innovation. 
The  applicant  applied  for  the  following  indication:    Dexdor  is  indicated  for  patients  requiring  light  to 
moderate sedation in intensive care during or after intubation. Dexdor is indicated in adults aged over 
18 years. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC.  
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature 
substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Not applicable. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Not applicable. 
Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 19 October 2000. The Scientific Advice 
pertained to clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
Dexmedetomidine  has  been  given  a  Marketing  Authorisation  in  Poland  on  19  December  2001.  This 
marketing authorisation was subsequently withdrawn in April 2011. 
Dexmedetomidine has also been given Marketing Authorisations in several countries outside EEA since 
1999. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 5/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Ian Hudson 
Co-Rapporteur: Tomas Salmonson 
 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 29 September 2010. 
Procedure was agreed upon by CHMP on 18 December 2005. 
The procedure started on 20 October 2010. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 10 January 
2011. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 5 
January 2011.  
  During the meeting on 14-17 February 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 17 February 2011. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 19 April 
2011. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 3 June 2011. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 20-23 June 2011, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to 
be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 30 June 2011. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the list of 
outstanding issues to all CHMP members on 7 July 2011. 
  During the meeting on 18-21 July 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Dexdor on 21 July 2011.  
2. Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
The  intensive  care  unit  (ICU)  population  consists  of  heterogeneous  patients,  including  for  instance, 
post-operative,  post-traumatic  or  medically  disabled  patients,  patients  under  either  controlled  or 
spontaneous  ventilation,  patients  with  various  underlying  diseases  such  as  cardiac,  renal  or  hepatic 
insufficiency.  Patients  requiring  intensive  care  commonly  need  sedation.  The  mode  of  sedation  thus 
varies according to the settings and the type of patient. 
In these patients, sedation has several objectives, e.g. improving patient comfort with pain relief and 
relief  of  anxiety,  treating  agitation,  guaranteeing  its  efficiency,  optimising  mechanical  ventilation 
condition,  facilitating  uncomfortable  short-term  diagnostic  or  therapeutic  procedures,  and  decreasing 
the neuroendocrine response to stress.  
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 6/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Many  different  pharmacological  agents  and  combinations  of  agents  are  employed  in  intensive  care 
patients  to  produce  sedation  and  analgesia  and  to  reduce  anxiety.  These  are  benzodiazepines  (e.g. 
midazolam)  because  of  their  anxiolytic,  sedative,  myorelaxant,  and  amnestic  properties,  general 
anaesthetics (e.g. propofol) because of their sedative property, opioids because of their analgesic and 
to  a  lesser  extent  sedative  properties.  Sedative  protocols  commonly  include  benzodiazepines  or 
propofol combined with an opioid agent. 
Dexmedetomidine acts as a selective alpha-2 receptor agonist with a broad range of pharmacological 
properties.  The  sedative  effects  are  claimed  to  be  mediated  through  decreased  firing  of  locus 
coeruleus,  the  predominant  noradrenergic  nucleus,  situated  in  the  brainstem.  Dexmedetomidine  has 
shown some analgesic and anaesthetic/analgesic-sparing effects.  
In  1998,  an  application  for  a  Marketing  Authorisation  for  dexmedetomidine  was  submitted  to  the 
European  Medicine  Agency  (EMA)  for  use  in  an  intensive  care  setting  as  an  alpha-2  sedative  with 
analgesic  properties.  Major  objections  regarding  the  claimed  indication,  the  clinical  relevance  of  the 
sparing effect, the absence of comparison to reference therapy, the cardiovascular safety were raised. 
Subsequently the application was withdrawn. 
A scientific advice for dexmedetomidine was received from the CHMP on 19 October 2000 pertaining to 
clinical aspects of the dossier. 
In September 2010, the applicant submitted to the EMA a complete new Marketing Authorisation based 
on  a  full  documentation  dossier  for  dexmedetomidine  (Dexdor)  through  the  centralised  procedure, 
according  to  article  8(3)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  a  “known  active  substance”.  At  the  time  of  this 
submission,  dexmedetomidine  was  authorised  as  100  μg  /ml  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  in 
Poland  under  the  name  of  Precedex.  The  authorised  indication  was  sedation  of  previously  intubated 
and  artificially  ventilated  patients  hospitalised  in  intensive  care  units  (ICU).  Precedex  should  be 
administered  as  a  continuous  infusion  for  no  longer  than  24  hours.  This  marketing  authorisation  was 
subsequently withdrawn in April 2011. 
The new application has been completed by additional data including 3 comparator-controlled studies 
(3005011,  3005012,  3005013)  and  a  further  phase  IV  study  comparing  dexmedetomidine  to 
midazolam (2001-001). 
The  following  indication  is  initially  applied  for:  Dexdor  is  indicated  for  patients  requiring  light  to 
moderate sedation in intensive care during or after intubation. Dexdor is indicated in adults aged over 
18 years. 
The  final  recommended  indication  by  the  CHMP  is:  for  sedation  of  adult  ICU  (Intensive  Care  Unit) 
patients  requiring  a  sedation  level  not  deeper  than  arousal  in  response  to  verbal  stimulation 
(corresponding to Richmond Agitation-Sedation Scale (RASS) 0 to -3). 
Dexdor is presented as 100 μg /ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The recommended dose is an 
initial infusion rate of 0.7 μg /kg/h which may then be adjusted stepwise within the dose range 0.2 to 
1.4 μg /kg/h in order to achieve the desired level of sedation. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 7/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Dexdor  is  a  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  and  contains  118  µg  /ml  of  dexmedetomidine 
hydrochloride  equivalent  to  100  micrograms/ml  of  dexmedetomidine.  Three  presentations  of  the 
finished  product  are  available:  200 µg/2  ml  ampoules,  400 µg/4  ml  and  1000 µg/10  ml  single-use 
vials.  The  container  closure  system  for  2  ml  nominal  fill  volume  is  type  I  colourless  glass  ampoules. 
The  other  containers  (4 ml  and  10  ml nominal  fill volumes)  are  type  I  colourless  glass vials  with  two 
alternative  fluoropolymer  coated  bromobutyl  rubber  stoppers  (omniflex  plus  and  ETFE),  sealed  with 
aluminium seals and polypropylene flip-off caps. 
The other ingredients of this medicine are water for injections and sodium chloride. 
Dexdor must be administered only as a diluted intravenous infusion using a controlled infusion device. 
Compatible  admixture  fluids  and  administration  devices/bags  have  been  investigated  and  use-times 
and storage conditions for diluted solutions for infusion have been established. 
Dexdor  can  be  diluted  in  glucose  50 mg/ml  (5%),  Ringers,  mannitol  200  mg/ml  (20%)  or  sodium 
chloride  9 mg/ml  (0.9%)  solution 
for 
injection  to  achieve  the  required  concentration  of 
4 micrograms/ml prior to administration. Dexdor has been shown to be compatible when administered 
with  the  following  intravenous  fluids  and  medicinal  products:  Lactated  Ringers,  5%  glucose  solution, 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection, mannitol 200 mg/ml (20%), thiopental sodium, 
etomidate,  vecuronium  bromide,  pancuronium  bromide,  succinylcholine,  atracurium  besylate, 
mivacurium  chloride,  rocuronium  bromide,  glycopyrrolate  bromide,  phenylephrine  HCl,  atropine 
sulphate,  dopamine,  noradrenaline,  dobutamine,  midazolam,  morphine  sulphate,  fentanyl  citrate,  and 
a plasma-substitute.  
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
The  chemical  names  of  dexmedetomidine  are  1H-imidazole,  4-[1-(2,3-dimethylphenyl)ethyl]-,  (S)-, 
hydrochloride,  or  (+)-4-[(S)-α,2,3-trimethylbenzyl]-imidazole  hydrochloride,  corresponding  to  the 
molecular formula C13H 16N2.HCl. The structure of this active substance is described in figure 1. 
Figure 1: Dexmedetomidine hydrochloride 
It appears as an almost white, or white, crystalline powder that is freely soluble in water, chloroform, 
ethanol and methanol; slightly soluble in acetonitrile and  practically soluble in ethe. Dexmedetomidine 
has one chiral centre and is therefore optically active. During the synthesis only one (S)-enantiomer is 
manufactured  and  used  in  the  manufacture  of  the  finished  product.  There  are  two  recognised 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 8/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
polymorphic  forms  of  dexmedetomidine:  anhydrous  (form  A)  and  monohydrate  (form  B).  Form  A  is 
consistently obtained during synthesis and is used in the manufacture of the finished product.  
2.2.2.1. 
 Manufacture 
The  Active  Substance  Master  File  (ASMF)  procedure  was  followed  for  the  active  substance.  The 
manufacturing process of dexmedetomidine is a three step synthesis followed by purification (filtration 
and crystallisation). A full description of the synthetic route was provided in the restricted part of the 
ASMF.  Adequate  controls  of  critical  steps  and  intermediates  are  in  place  to  ensure  the  quality  of  the 
active substance, and adequate specifications for starting materials, reagents, and solvents have been 
provided.  The  purified  active  substance  is  packed  in  white  polyethylene  containers  that  are  sealed 
within  aluminium  laminate  bags.  Statements  from  the  Qualified  Persons  of  the  finished  product 
manufacturers  confirming  that  the  manufacturing  of  the  active  substance  is  performed  in  compliance 
with  current  EU  GMP  or  ICH  Q7A  were  provided.  The  chemical  structure  of  the  active  substance  has 
been confirmed by spectroscopy (IR, 1H-NMR, 13C-NMR, UV and MS). In addition the molecular weight 
was  determined  by  elemental  analysis  and  the  absolute  configuration  and  crystal  structure  was 
determined by X-ray diffraction. 
2.2.2.2. 
 Specification 
The  active  substance  specification  as  tested  by  the  finished  product  manufacturer  includes  tests  for 
appearance  (visual),  identification  (IR,  chlorides  and  HPLC),  loss  on  drying  (Ph.Eur.),  sulphated  ash 
(Ph.Eur.), heavy metals (Ph.Eur.), pH, colour of solution (Ph.Eur.), clarity of solution (Ph.Eur.), optical 
purity  (Ph.Eur.),  impurities  (HPLC),  residual  solvents  (GC),  assay  (HPLC)  and  microbiological  purity 
(Ph.Eur.).  A  detailed  description  for  all  analytical  methods  was  provided.  Full  method  validation  data 
was  provided  for  the  in-house  analytical  methods  and  are  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  ICH 
guidelines. In general, the analytical methods proposed are suitable to control the quality of the active 
substance. The impurity limits are acceptable and there is no concern from the point of view of safety. 
Batch  analysis  data  have  been  provided  and  show  compliance  with  the  predefined  active  substance 
specification. 
2.2.2.3. 
 Stability 
The  stability  results  from  long-term  (25°C/60%RH)  for  6  production  scale  batches  and  accelerated 
studies  (40°C/75%RH)  for  five  production  scale  batches  were  completed  according  to  ICH  guidelines 
demonstrated  adequate  stability  of  the  active  substance.  The  following  parameters  were  monitored 
during the stability studies: appearance (visual), loss on drying, assay (HPLC), impurities (HPLC) and 
optical purity (HPLC), employing the test methods applied as used for release of the active substance. 
It can be concluded that the proposed re-test is justified based on the stability results when the active 
substance is stored in the original packaging material.  
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
2.2.3.1. 
 Pharmaceutical Development 
All  information  regarding  the  choice  of  the  drug  substance  characteristics  and  the  excipients  are 
sufficiently justified. The excipients selected for this formulation are commonly used in pharmaceutical 
formulations  and  are  described  in  the  European  Pharmacopeia.  The  main  objective  was  to  develop  a 
stable, sterile, aqueous solution of dexmedetomidine hydrocloride for intravenous administration. Since 
it  is  freely  soluble  in  water  at  room  temperature,  it  was  possible  to  develop  a  final  formulation  of  a 
homogenous solution at the proposed concentration (100 µg/ml). Terminal sterilisation of the finished 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 9/79
 
 
 
 
product  was  considered  and  studied  during  drug  development. The  vials  are  sealed  with coated  butyl 
rubber  stoppers.  Since  the  product  is  intended  for  single  use  only,  no  preservative  system  has  been 
considered.  The  manufacturing  process  employed  is  simple  and  has  not  changed  significantly  during 
product development.  
2.2.3.2. 
 Manufacture of the product 
This  Manufacturing  process  consists  of  the  following  steps:  mixing  and  dissolution  of  ingredients, 
filtration,  filing,  terminal  sterilization,  inspection  of  ampoules/vials,  assembly  process  (labeling  and 
packaging).The  critical  steps  of  this  particular  manufacturing  process  have  been  identified  and 
optimised during drug development.  
Satisfactory  process  validation  data  have  been  provided  for  the  major  steps  of  the  manufacturing 
process. The batch analysis results show that the medicinal product can be manufactured reproducibly 
according to the agreed finished product.  
2.2.3.3. 
 Product specification 
The  product  specification  is  standard  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  and  contains  tests  with 
suitable  limits  for  colour  of  solution  (Ph.Eur),  clarity  of  solution  (Ph.Eur),  particulate  matter  (Ph.Eur), 
extractable  volume  (Ph.Eur),  pH  (Ph.Eur),  identification  of  dexmedetomidine  (HPLC,  UV),  assay 
(HPLC),  optical  purity,  impurities  (HPLC),  assay  of  sodium  chloride,  test  for  sterility  (Ph.Eur)  and 
bacterial endotoxins (Ph.Eur). Impurities and degradation products have been evaluated and found to 
be acceptable from the point of view of safety. All analytical procedures that were used for testing the 
finished  product  were  properly  described  and  satisfactorily  validated  in  accordance  with  the  relevant 
ICH guidelines. The batch analysis data for 5 production scale batches confirm that the concentrate for 
solution  for  infusion  can  be  manufactured  reproducibly  according  to  the  agreed  finished  product 
specifications. 
2.2.3.4. 
 Stability of the product 
Stability  studies  under  ICH  long-term  and  accelerated  conditions  (i.e.  25°C/60%  RH  and  40°C/75% 
RH) have been carried out for pilot and production batches  covering all three proposed  presentations 
(200 µg/2 ml, 400 µg/4 ml and 1000 µg/10 ml). 
The  results  of  the  following  tests  were  submitted:  appearance  (colour  and  clarity  of  solution), 
impurities,  assay,  pH,  microbiological  purity  (Ph.Eur)  and  optical  purity.  The  analytical  methods  used 
for  the  stability  studies  are  identical  with  the  methods  proposed  for  routine  testing  of  the  finished 
product. During the stability studies the product did not show any significant change in its quality. All 
the results remained well within the specification limits during all the stability studies.  
A  Photostability  testing  program  was  conducted  in  accordance  with  the  recommendations  of  ICH 
guideline  Q1B.  The  results  were  found  to  meet  the  specifications  and  the  finished  product  does  not 
require any special light protection. 
The  stability of  Dexmedetomidine  100  μg/ml  concentrate  for  solution  for infusion  has  been  evaluated 
on repeated freezing and thawing. The freeze-thaw study of Dexmedetomidine 100 μg/ml concentrate 
for solution for infusion was carried out by storing 2 ml ampoules in a freezer at approximately -20 °C 
at  least  for  24  hours.  Freezing  and  thawing  was  carried  out  four  times.  All  results  complied  with  the 
specification confirming that repeated freezing and thawing does not have an impact on the quality and 
stability of the finished product. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 10/79
 
 
 
 
During  the  development  work  the  stability  and  compatibility  studies  of  the  diluted  solutions  of 
Dexmedetomidine  100  μg/ml  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  in  different  infusion  solutions  have 
been investigated. Stability of the drug product after dilution in 0.9 % sodium chloride infusion solution 
to concentration 4 μg/ml has been demonstrated for 48 hours. Drug product has also been studied to 
be stable in dilutions with 5 % glucose (dextrose), 0.9 % sodium chloride solution, ringers solution and 
20 % mannitol as the concentration of 1 and 50 μg/ml for 24 hours. 
The  stability  of  the  diluted  solutions  of  Dexmedetomidine  100  μg/ml  concentrate  for  solution  for 
infusion  has  been  repeated  at  the  end  of  shelf  life  in  different  infusion  solutions  in  syringes  after 
storage  of  24  hours  at  ambient  room  temperature  and  at  2  to  8ºC.  All  results  complied  with  the 
specification  confirming  that  the  dilution  does  not  have  an  impact  on  the  quality  and  stability  of  the 
finished product. Furthermore, the results demonstrate that the diluted finished product is stable for 24 
hours. In accordance with this study Dexmedetomidine 100 μg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
is  compatible  with  sodium  chloride,  glucose,  Ringer-acetate  and  mannitol  infusion  solutions  as  a 
concentration 4 μg/ml for 24 hours at ambient room temperature and at 2 to 8ºC. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SmPC 
are acceptable.  
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
2.2.4.1. 
 Quality Development 
The  pharmaceutical  development  of  the  formulation, the  manufacturing  process,  control  of  the  active 
substance  and  the  finished  product  have  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner  and  justified  in 
accordance  with  relevant  CHMP  and  ICH  guidelines.  The  manufacturing  flow-chart  was  provided  with 
suitable  in-process  controls.  The  manufacturing  process  is  adequately  validated  for  production  scale 
batches of each presentation at the proposed manufacturing site.  
The routine specifications and tests methods proposed for the finished product will adequately control 
the quality of the finished product. Analytical methods were well described and validated in agreement 
with relevant guidelines.  
Batch  analyses  were  presented  and  the  results  showed  that  the  finished  product  meets  the 
specifications proposed.  
The container-closure system was found to be suitable to ensure the quality of the finished product as 
shown by the stability data.  
The  conditions  used  in  the  stability  studies  comply  with  the  ICH  stability  guideline.  The  control  tests 
and specifications for finished were adequately established. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished have been 
presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory  consistency 
and  uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the  conclusion 
that  the  medicinal  product  should  have  a  satisfactory  and  uniform  performance  in  the  clinic.  At  the 
time of the CHMP opinion, all quality issues have been resolved. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 11/79
 
 
 
 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
All  main  safety  pharmacology  and  pivotal  toxicology  studies  were  performed  according  to  Good 
Laboratory Practices (GLP), as stated by the applicant. 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Dexmedetomidine  has  been  evaluated  in  a  series  of  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies  to  characterise  its 
mechanism  of  action  and  sedative,  anaesthetic-sparing,  analgesic,  anxiolytic  effects.  Effects  on  
noradrenaline  release  and 
intracellular  signalling  were  also  studied. 
  In  vivo  secondary 
pharmacodynamic  studies  were  also  performed  to  investigate  the  effects  on  cardiovascular  function 
(e.g on blood pressure/flow, heart rate, vascular resistance/contractility), cerebral vascular system and 
nerve cells. 
Dexmedetomidine 
is 
the  dextro-enantiomer  of  medetomidine,  a  compound  marketed  as 
sedative/analgesic for veterinary use in several countries in the European Union.  
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
2.3.2.1. 
 Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
Dexmedetomidine has shown to be a potent and selective α2-adrenoceptor agonist. It is not selective 
for any specific α2-adrenoceptor subtype and has very low affinity for α1 adrenoceptors with a α2/α1 
ratio  of  1300/1.  Similar  pharmacological  profiles 
for  dexmedetomidine  and  the  racemate, 
medetomidine  were  observed;  however, 
the 
levo-rotatory  enantiomer  was  shown 
to  be 
pharmacologically inactive. 
The  principal  human  metabolites,  H3  (imidazole  oxidation  product)  and  G-Dex  (mixture  of  two 
N-glucuronide  isomers)  were  >183  and  >745-fold  less  potent  at  the  α2-adrenoceptors,  respectively 
and  were  not  considered  to  have  a  significant  contribution  to  the  pharmacological  effects  of  the 
compound. 
In  rats,  dexmedetomidine  caused  a  concentration–dependent  inhibition  of  noradrenaline  release 
(EC 50:4 nM) in locus  coeruleus  cells.  At  dose  >30 g/kg,  it  caused  a  dose-dependent  decrease  in  the 
levels of the principal noradrenaline metabolite and increased the levels of noradrenaline. Inhibition of 
noradrenaline  turnover  was  observed  at  low  doses  (30 g/kg)  with  a  maximal  effects  at  100  and 
300 g/kg. Dexmedetomidine also reduced the turnover of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and dopamine 
at  >30 g/kg  and  >100 g/kg,  respectively.  The  sympathoinhibitory  effect  of  dexmedetomidine  was 
also  observed  in  dogs  at  0.25-20 g/kg  resulting  in  a  significant,  dose-dependent  decrease  in  the 
plasma levels of noradrenaline and/or adrenaline. 
Dexmedetomidine has also shown to inhibit adenylate cyclase (possibly via activation of the G i protein) 
causing  a  decrease  in  the  levels  of  cAMP.  Studies  also  suggested  inwardly-rectifying  activation  of 
potassium  channels  causing  hyperpolarisation  of  the  cell  membrane  and  subsequent  inhibition  of 
neuronal cell firing rate.  In addition, there is also evidence to suggest that dexmedetomidine causes a 
decrease  in  intracellular  calcium  via  inhibition  of  N-type  calcium  channels,  which  in  turn  inhibits 
neurotransmitter release. 
Similarly  to  all  α2-adrenoceptor  agonists,  dexmedetomidine  has  sedative,  analgesic  and  anxiolytic 
activity,  the  latter  only  being  apparent  at  sub-sedative  doses.  Dexmedetomidine  has  been  shown  to 
produce dose dependent sedative and hypnotic effects in rats, dogs and in a variety of other species. 
These  effects  are  likely  to  be  mediated  by  α2-adrenoceptors  located  in  the  locus  coeruleus.  After 
chronic  subcutaneous  administration  (1-10 g/kg/h  for  7  days),  desensitization  to  the  sedative  and 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 12/79
 
 
 
 
hypnotic/anaesthetic  effects  were  observed  in  rats,  although  tolerance  did  not  appear  to  develop  for 
the  sympatholytic  or  anaesthetic-sparing  effects  in  clinical  settting.      Dexmedetomidine  has  also 
anxiolytic  activity  in  the  rat.  The  analgesic  and  antinociceptive  effects,  both  after  systemic  and 
intrathecal  administration,  have  been  shown  in  a  number  of  species.  These  effects  are  likely  to  be 
mediated by the activation of both pre- and postsynaptic α2-adrenoceptors that have a central as well 
as a spinal component. 
2.3.2.2. 
 Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
The cardiovascular effects of dexmedetomidine have been extensively studied in a variety of species, 
in  both  the  conscious  and  anaesthetised  states.  Intravenous  (iv)  administration  of  dexmedetomidine 
can  be  expected  to  produce  transient  hypertension  and  coronary  vasoconstriction  (peripheral  post-
synaptic  effects),  which  will  be  dependent  of  the  dose  and  rate  of  delivery,  followed  by  hypotension 
and bradycardia (central and peripheral pre-synaptic sympatholytic effects and increased vagal tone). 
Depressed  cardiac  function  was  also  characterised  by  an  increase  in  left  ventricular  end  diastolic 
pressure that have been observed in dogs after iv dexmedetomidine (2.5 and 5 μg/kg). In general, no 
adverse effects were observed on cardiac function as cardiac oxygen demand was reduced as a result 
of  the  reduced  heart  rate,  contractility  and  cardiac  output.  It  should  be  noted  however,  that  the 
depressive  effects  on  contractility  might  be  deleterious  in  heart  failure  or  left  ventricular  dysfunction. 
In  some  studies,  anti-steal  (reversal  of  abnormal  myocardial  blood  flow)  and  anti-ischemic  effects  of 
dextemetomidine were also suggested.  
Other secondary effects have been identified. In dogs, reduced cerebral blood flow was observed after 
concomitant  administration  of  a  number  of  anaesthetics.  In  rabbits  and  rats,  some  neuroprotective 
effects were observed and thought to be mediated via the 2A-receptors.  
Dexmedetomidine was also shown to inhibit in vitro human platelet adenylate cyclase via 2A-receptors 
and effects on platelet (human) aggregation have been noted at 3 μM. Dexmedetomidine did not cause 
a full aggregatory response alone and is considered to act as partial agonist. 
In  rats,  intraperitoneally  administered  dexmedetomidine  (10-300  g/kg)  increased  growth  hormone 
and prolactin release and these effects appear to be mediated via the  2-receptor. 
In dogs, no effect was observed on cortisol response after chronic administration dexmedetomidine (50 
g/kg/day) as a 6-hour infusion. A slightly lower response was seen at higher dose (100 g/kg/day). 
Dexmedetomidine (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg) caused a significant reduction in insulin secretion, an increase 
in plasma glucose, but had no effect on the serum levels of free fatty acids.  
In  mouse  and  rat  models  of  sepsis,  dexmedetomidine  (40 g/kg  i.p.  and  2.5-10 g/kg  i.v., 
respectively)  was  suggested  to  improve  survival  and  attenuate  the  plasma  levels  of  inflammatory 
mediators.  
2.3.2.3. 
 Safety pharmacology programme 
Central nervous system 
In rats, dexmedetomidine has shown anticonvulsant activity against kainic acid-induced and amygdala 
kindled  seizures  at  3-5 g/kg  s.c.,  bupivacaine  and  levobupivacaine-induced  seizures  at  3.6 g/kg/h 
i.v.  and  cocaine  induced  seizures  at  20  g/kg/h  followed  by  1  g/kg/h  i.v.    Intraperitoneal 
administration  of  up  to  300 g/kg,  had  no  effect  on  pentylenetetrazol-induced  convulsions  in  mice; 
however,  high  intravenous  doses  (100  and  500 g/kg)  reduced  the  pentylenetetrazol-induced  seizure 
threshold in rats. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 13/79
 
 
 
 
In  rhesus  monkeys,  dexmedetomidine  (0.25  and  1  g/kg/infusion)  demonstrated  high  rates  of 
self-administration  that  were  comparable  to  pentazocine  (125  and  250 g/kg/infusion).  In  rats, 
cessation  of  repeated-intravenous  administration  of  dexmedetomidine  (hourly  injections  of  8 and  16 
g/kg  for  3-7  days)  was  associated  with  reduced  weight  gain  and  behavioural  withdrawal  signs 
(including  hyperreactivity  and  piloerection);  however,  the  degree  of  physical  dependence  was 
substantially  less  than  that  observed  with  morphine.  Dexmedetomidine  caused  a  dose-dependent 
decrease in body temperature in both rats and dogs. In dogs, cessation of a 7-day dexmedetomidine 
infusion (10 g/kg/h s.c.) was also associated with tachycardia. 
Cardiovascular system 
Dexmedetomidine and its primary metabolites (H-3, G-Dex-1 and G-Dex-2) inhibited the hERG channel 
current  at  high  concentrations  in  human  embryonic  kidney  cells  (IC50  values  > 10-30 M)  No 
significant  binding/affinity  to  L-Ca2+,  KATP
+,  voltage  gated  K+  or  Na+  and  chloride  channels  were 
observed with dexmedetomidine and its H-3 metabolite (1 M). 
No  effects  on  cardiac  conduction  were  observed  in  dogs  and  rabbits  at  0.01 M  and  0.03-3 M, 
respectively. At higher doses (0.1 and 1 M), a small dose-dependent increase in action potential was 
observed  in  dog  Purkinje  fibres.    At  higher  supra-therapeutic  concentration  of  10  M,  a  decrease  in 
action  potential  duration  was  noted  that  was  associated  with  a  decrease  in  the  maximal  rate  of 
depolarisation. Early or delayed afterdepolarisations were not observed.  In anaesthetised guinea pigs, 
cumulative  intravenous  infusion  of  dexmedetomidine  at  9,  27  and  90 g/kg/h  at  20 min  intervals  did 
not induce any effects on the duration of ventricular repolarisation. In dogs, a number of studies were 
performed  suggesting  that  observed  QT  prolongations  were  caused  by  hypothermia  rather  than 
torsadogenic effect.  
Respiratory system 
Respiratory  depressive  effects  were  observed 
in  a  number  of  studied  species.  In  rats, 
dexmedetomidine  decreased  minute  ventilation  and  respiratory  frequency  after  i.p  administration  of 
250 g/kg followed by 0.5 g/kg/h i.v. In dogs, respiratory rate was reduced at iv dose of < 2.5 g/kg 
while  a  dose  dependent  increase  in  respiratory  depression  was  observed  at  10-  100 g/kg.  Moderate 
respiratory  depression  has  also  been  noted  in  conscious  rabbits  and  monkeys  following  intravenous 
and  subcutaneous  administration  at  > 80 g/kg  and  > 3  g/kg,  respectively.  In  sheep  and  goats, 
dexmedetomidine  significantly  increased  respiratory  resistance  and  induced  arterial  hypoxia  and 
pulmonary  oedema,  particularly  after  rapid  bolus  administration  (2  g/kg).  Significant  increase  in 
respiratory resistance was also observed. 
Other systems 
In mice, dexmedetomidine (1-100 g/kg/s.c) caused a transient (<3 hours) dose-dependent reduction 
in  intestinal  motility.  In  rats,  inhibition  of  gastrointestinal  transit  (ED50  value:  40 g/kg)  and  gastric 
emptying (slightly) was observed after i.p administration.  
In  rats,  dexmedetomidine  (10   and  30 g/kg/s.c)  caused  diuresis,  naturesis  and  kaliuresis.  These 
effects  are  thought  to  be  partly  mediated  via  reduced  arginine  vasopressin-stimulated  water  and 
sodium transport.  
Dexmedetomidine (3 g/kg s.c.), when administered as a bolus alone or bolus dose plus infusion also 
reduced renal impairment in rat models of renal ischaemia and reperfusion. These effects appear to be 
mediated via preservation of blood flow within the outer medulla. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 14/79
 
 
 
 
2.3.2.4.  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Dexmedetomidine  acts  synergistically  when  given  in  combination  with  midazolam,  diazepam  and 
fentanyl. In rats and dogs, it enhanced the anxiolytic, sedative and hypnotic effects of benzodiazepines 
and  the  antinociceptive  effects  of  opioids.  It  reduced  the  anaesthetic  requirements  by  up  to  90%.  In 
guinea  pigs,  it  prolonged  the  spinal  anaesthesia  induced  by  levobupivacaine  and  enhanced  the  local 
anaesthetic action of lidocaine. 
In  dogs,  dexmedetomidine  (10-50 g/kg  p.o  or  10 g/kg  i.v)  counteracted  the  increased  heart  rate, 
rate of increase of left ventricular pressure at 50 mmHg (dP/dt50), rate-pressure product and/or cardiac 
output  caused  by  ketamine  and  attenuated  the  decrease  in  mean  arterial  blood  pressure  caused  by 
halothane  and  isofluorane.    In  addition,  dexmedetomidine  prevented  the  increased  heart  rate  and 
blood pressure observed  during emergence from enfluorane anaesthesia with enfluorane and the loss 
of baroceptor reflex that occurs with halothane anaesthesia. 
In several species (rats, cats and dogs), anti-cholinergics such as atropine and glycopyrrolate inhibited 
the  reduced  heart  rate  observed  with  dexmedetomidine  and  also  increased  the  myocardial  oxygen 
consumption  and  the  severity  and  duration  of  hypertension.    Dexmedetomidine  had  no  effect  on  the 
neuromuscular blocking actions of pancuronium, vecuronium or suxamethonium in rats. 
Effects  of  calcium  channel  blockers  on  dexmedetomidine  were  noted.  Isradipine  attenuated 
dexmedetomidine-induced  (0.1-10 g/kg  i.v.)  decrease  in  heart  rate/cardiac  output  and  increase  in 
blood  pressure  without  any  effect  on  the  decreased  plasma  levels  of  adrenaline  and  noradrenaline. 
Nifedipine  normalised  all  dexmedetomidine-induced  (20 g/kg  i.v.)  haemodynamic  changes  observed 
during  isoflurane  anaesthesia,  without  decreasing  its  anaesthetic  sparing  activity.  Nifedipine  also 
enhanced the dexmedetomidine-induced (300 mg/kg) hypnosis, anaesthesia and diuresis. 
In  ethanol-fed  rats,  dexmedetomidine  (10  mg/kg  s.c.)  has  shown  to  relieve  withdrawal  reactions 
(rigidity, tremor, irritability) and prevent overactivity and degeneration of catecholaminergic neurons. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  and  metabolism  of  dexmedetomidine  were  predominantly  investigated  in  rats 
and  dogs  following  different  routes  of  administration  (subcutaneous,  intravenous,  intramuscular, 
intrathecal  and  epidural).  Additional  studied  species  were  also  referred  to  (e.g  rabbits,  cats  and 
sheeps). 
Dexmedetomidine was readily absorbed following subcutaneous or intramuscular administration in rats 
and  dogs.  Cmax  was  reached  within  less  than  an  hour  and  the  half-life  of  elimination  was  up  to 
approximately  2 hours  after  single  administration.  In  these  species,  the  pharmacokinetics  was  non-
linear  with  Cmax  and  AUC  increasing  with  the  dose  in  a  supra-proportional  manner.  No  evidence  of 
accumulation was observed upon repeated-dosing. 
The  radioactive  drug  was  rapidly  and  widely  distributed  over  the  body.  The  apparent  volume  of 
distribution ranged from 0.8-2.16 L/kg in the studied species.  Tissue concentrations were higher than 
plasma  in  the  liver,  adrenal  glands,  kidneys,  lungs,  intestine,  stomach,  pancreas  and  eyes.  Some 
binding  to  melanin  was  evidenced  in  eyes.  Radioactivity  in  plasma  and  most  tissues  had  decreased 
substantially  within  72  hours  with  the  exception  of  adrenals.    Low  binding  to  red  blood  cells  was 
observed.  Dexmedetomidine-related  radioactivity  crossed  the  placenta  barrier  in  pregnant  rats,  with 
highest  fetal  levels  in  blood,  liver  and  kidneys.  Foetal  levels  of  dexmedetomidine  were  similar  to 
maternal plasma levels. It was also excreted into the milk of lactating rats and the plasma/milk ratios 
were less than 1 at all time points. The plasma protein binding was 88% in rats, 95% in mice, 93% in 
dogs, 90% in cats and about 85% in monkeys. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 15/79
 
 
 
 
Biotransformation  plays  a  major  role  in  the  elimination  of  dexmedetomidine  with  <1%  excreted 
unchanged.  Carboxy  metabolite,  hydroxy  metabolite,  its  corresponding  glucuronide  and  sulphate 
conjugates  as  well  as  unidentified  metabolites  were  detected  in  rats  and  dogs  plasma.  The  main 
metabolite  was  the  3-hydroxyderivative.  This  metabolite  is  present  in  human  and  is  not 
pharmacologically active. The patterns of plasma and urinary metabolites were very similar in rats and 
dogs and different from humans. Elimination seemed to be relatively rapid with half lives ranging from 
0.6  in  dogs  to  2.6  hours  in  humans,  the  urine  being  the  major  route  of  excretion.  In  rats,  total 
excretion  of  radiolabelled  material  was  93%  of  the  dose  in  72  hours  and  the  majority  was  excreted 
during the first 24 hours (52-74% in urine and 14-27% in faeces). 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
The studies were conducted with dexmedetomidine hydrochloride and were performed predominantly 
in rats and dogs, using different routes of administration (intravenous: i.v, subcutaneous: s.c, 
intramuscular: i.m and intrathecal: i.t).  In addition, studies were performed in the mice, guinea pigs 
and rabbits. The toxicity profiles of the 4 major (human) metabolites and the impurity, 
levomedetomidine, were also investigated. 
2.3.4.1. 
 Single dose toxicity 
Acute  toxicity  studies  were  performed  in  mice,  rats  and  dogs  using  subcutaneous  or  intravenous 
routes.  The  lowest  lethal  dose  (LLD)  for  acute  toxicity  of  dexmetomidine  in  mice  was  5  mg/kg  for 
males  and  10  mg/kg  for  females  using  the  intravenous  route  and  20  mg/kg  or  greater  (for  females 
only) using the subcutaneous route. . The LLD for acute toxicity in rats was 5 mg/kg for both routes of 
administration  for  females  and  5  mg/kg  and  10  mg/kg  for  males  for  intravenous  and  subcutaneous 
routes,  respectively.  The  main  findings  were  dose  dependent  clinical  signs  consistent  with  the 
pharmacology of dexmedetomidine including sedation, piloerection, exophthalmos, tachypnoea, clonic 
convulsion, salivation, muscle twitching, decreased body temperature and tremors. The cause of death 
in  rats  (doses  of  >5  mg/kg)  and  dogs  (doses  of  2  mg/kg)  were  related  to  congestive  heart  failure, 
hyperpyrexia or gastrointestinal atony.  
2.3.4.2. 
 Repeat dose toxicity 
Repeated-dose toxicity studies of up to 4 weeks were performed in rats and dogs by i.v., s.c. and i.m. , 
i.t. routes of administration. Dose ranges tested in these studies were 20-500 μg/kg/day (rats, s.c. and 
i.m.), 10-1250 μg/kg/day (rat, i.v.) and 10-250 μg/kg/day (dogs, i.m. and i.v.), 2-80 μg/kg/day (dogs, 
i.t.). Dose-related sedation and piloerection were seen at all doses in both species. Rats also presented 
exophthalmos,  while  dogs  showed  signs  of  sporadic  muscle  twitches  and  irregular  respiration  rate. 
Atrioventricular block were also observed in dogs and considered to be related to the pharmacological 
profile of dexmedetomidine. The corneal keratitis/opacity observed in both species were considered to 
be due to a reduction in the tear film and the blink reflex during sedation. 
In  lungs  of  rats,  the  presence  of  hemosiderin-laden  macrophages  was  observed  after  chronic 
administration  using  different  routes  and  were  reversible  over  time.  After  iv  bolus  administration, 
changes in the levels of alkaline phosphatase and other hepatic enzymes, were noted in both species 
and  liver  weight  and  hepatocytes  changes  (i.e  eosinophilic  intracytoplasmic  inclusions)  were  also 
observed in rats and dogs, respectively. These laboratory and histological changes were not observed 
using iv 6 hour infusion.  
In  addition,  a  juvenile  animal  study  was  performed  in  dogs  using  a  6  hour  infusion/day.  No  deaths 
occurred  and  no  changes  in  body  weight  or  food  consumption  were  observed.    A  sedative  effect  was 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 16/79
 
 
 
 
noted  at  all  dose  levels  and  the  depth  of  sedation  increased  with  dose.    Induction  and  reversal  of 
sedation  occurred  rapidly  following  the  onset  and  termination  of  dexmedetomidine  infusion, 
respectively. Decreased body temperature was noted during infusion at all doses, Decreased heart rate 
was observed during infusion for all dose groups, which was accompanied by a prolonged QT interval; 
both effects resolved within 1-2 hours after the completion of daily dosing. 
2.3.4.3. 
 Genotoxicity 
The mutagenicity and clastogenicity of dexmedetomidine was evaluated using the standard battery of 
in vitro and in vivo tests: Ames test, DNA repair test, gene mutation assay in mouse lymphoma cells, 
mouse micronucleus test. All of these studies had negative results. 
2.3.4.4. 
 Carcinogenicity 
No carcinogenicity studies were performed. 
2.3.4.5. 
 Reproduction Toxicity 
The effect of dexmedetomidine on fertility and early embryonic development was assessed in male and 
female  rats  and  in  female  rabbits  using  s.c  or  i.v  administration.  Dexmedetomidine  had  no  effect  on 
male  or  female  fertility  at  all  tested  doses  up  to  54  μg/kg/s.c.  Maternal  and  foetal  toxicity  (including 
embryo-foetal  deaths)  were  observed  in  most  studies  with  the  exception  of  the  teratogenicity  study 
performed in rabbits. In rats, 200 μg/kg/day/s.c caused an increase in embryofetal death and reduced 
the fetal body weight. This was associated with clear maternal toxicity. Reduced fetal body weight also 
was noted in rats at dose 18 μg/kg/day/s.c and was accompanied with delayed ossification at dose 54 
μg/kg/day/s.c. 
2.3.4.6. 
 Toxicokinetic data 
Toxicokinetic  data  on  dexmedetomidine  and  metabolites  were  collected  from  pharmacokinetic  or 
toxicology studies previously described. In rats and dogs, kinetics were non-linear, with Cmax and AUC 
increasing with dose in a supra proportional manner.  No evidence of accumulation was observed upon 
repeated-dosing. 
2.3.4.7. 
 Local Tolerance  
Dexmedetomidine  has  shown  some  haemolytic  potential  and  local  arterial/intramuscular  irritancy. 
Perivascular  fibrosis  was  also  noted  at  the  injections  sites  in  previous  described  toxicology  studies 
performed in rats and dogs. 
2.3.4.8. 
 Other toxicity studies 
Dexmedetomidine did not absord light at ≥ 290 nm. No specific photoxicity study has been performed.  
It did not cause any sign of anaphylaxis and/or hypersensitivity in guinea pigs. Other findings related 
to dependence have been previously described in the safety pharmacology studies.  
The toxicity profiles of a number of metabolites were studied and did not show any relevant findings. 
Although  levometedomidine  was  found  pharmacologically  inactive,  similar  toxicity  profile  has  been 
observed as compared to dexmedetomidine. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 17/79
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The results are summarised in Table 1. 
Table 1 Summary of main study results  
Substance (INN/Invented Name): dexmedetomidine/dexmedetomidine hydrochloride 
CAS-number : CAS-145108-58-3 (hydrochloride salt) 
PBT screening 
Bioaccumulation potential- log 
K ow 
Phase I Calculation 
PEC  surfacewater refined (e.g. 
prevalence, literature) 
Value 
0.00012738  
Result 
2.89 
Unit 
g/L 
Conclusion 
Potential PBT : No 
Conclusion 
> 0.01 
threshold : No 
Dexmedetomidine  PEC  surfacewater  value  is  below  the  action  limit  of  0.01  g/L.  and  is  not  a  PBT 
substance as log Kow does not exceed 4.5.Therefore dexmedetomidine is not expected to pose a risk 
to the environment.  
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The  pharmacological  studies  adequately  characterised  the  properties  and  principal  effects  of 
dexmedetomidine  as  well  as  potential  harmful  effects  on  vital  organ  systems.  Receptor  binding  and 
functional studies in several in vitro and in vivo models demonstrated that dexmedetomidine acts as a 
potent  and  selective  α2  adrenoceptor  agonist.  Sedative,  analgesic  and  hypnotic  effects  were 
demonstrated  in  animals.  Sedation  and  hypnotic  effects  were  dose-dependent  and  enhanced  by 
benzodiazepines  and  opioids.  Anxiolytic  effect  appeared  at  sub  sedative  doses.  Tolerance  to  the 
sedative  and  hypnotic  effects  was  evidenced.  The  cardiovascular  effects  depend  on  the  dose;  with 
lower infusion rates the central effects dominate leading to decrease in heart rate and blood pressure. 
With  higher  doses,  peripheral  vasoconstriction  prevailed  leading  to  an  increase  in  systemic  vascular 
resistance and blood pressure, while bradycardia is further emphasised.  
The safety pharmacology identified mainly drug dependence and cardiac effects as possible targets for 
dexmedetomidine regarding potential adverse effects in man. Warnings related to abuse potential and 
withdrawal reactions and effect on seizures have been added in the SmPC to address the issue on drug 
dependence.  Cardiovascular  risk  is  also  further  discussed  under  the  clinical  safety  2.6.  Respiratory 
depressive  effects  were  observed  in  a  number  of  studied  species.  The  significant  findings  related  to 
glucose metabolism were considered clinically manageable and not observed in clinical setting. 
The  results  of  pharmacokinetic  studies  in  animals  showed:  rapid  absorption;  extensive  tissue 
distribution (crossed the blood brain and placenta barriers), high protein binding and rapid elimination. 
Dexmedetomidine  drug  related  material  is  excreted  both  in  urine  and  faeces  and  notably  in  milk. 
However,  while  the  patterns  of  plasma  and  urinary metabolites were  very  similar in  rats and  dogs,  it 
substantially differs from the human pattern. On this basis, extrapolation from animal data to man was 
considered limited. 
However,  further  investigation  on  the  potential  for  drug  interactions  with  drug  products  that  either 
inhibit  or  induce  the  levels  of  CYP2A6,  CYP1A2,  CYP2E1,  CYP2D6  and  CYP2C19  and  on  whether 
dexmedetomidine is a substrate or an inhibitor of the P-glycoprotein transport pathway was required. 
This is discussed under the clinical pharmacokinetics 2.4.2. 
The majority of the findings in the repeated dose toxicity studies were related to the pharmacological 
activity of dexmedetomidine. Liver and cornea were identified as additional target organs in animals. In 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 18/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
these studies, the plasma concentrations observed at the No-Observe Adverse Effect Levels (NOAELs) 
in  rats  and  dogs  were  higher  (1.9  to  7.8  fold)  than  the  proposed  clinical  plasma  concentration  of  2.5 
ng/ml.  Considering  the  intended  clinical  use,  these  safety  margins  were  considered  at  an  acceptable 
level. 
In  addition,  a  juvenile  animal  toxicity  study  was  performed  in  dogs  using  a  6  hour  infusion/day  and 
show similar findings than those observed in adults.  
There was no evidence of genotoxicity in a standard package of tests. 
No  carcinogenicity  studies  were  performed  and  this  can  be  considered  acceptable  in  view  of  the 
proposed and anticipated maximum duration of treatment (14 days). 
Dexmedetomidine had no effect on male or female fertility and no teratogenic effects were observed in 
animals.  However,  maternal  and  foetal  toxicity  (including  embryo-foetal  deaths)  were  noted.  As  a 
result, dexmedetomidine should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary. The potential 
effect  of  dexmedetomidine  on  foetal  heart  rate  was  discussed.  There  is  currently  no  evidence  to 
suggest such effect with dexmedetomidine. 
Appropriate  recommendations  concerning  pregnancy,  lactation  and  breastfeeding  are  included  in  the 
SmPC. 
An  ERA  according  to  CHMP  guideline  on  the  environmental  risk  assessment  of  medicinal  products  for 
human use (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00, June 2006) was submitted. The physiochemical properties of 
dexmedetomidine are: Molecular mass: 236.7 and freely soluble in water. Based its intended ICU use 
and  maximum  treatment  duration  of  14  days,  the  predicted  environmental  concentration  in  surface 
water  was  0.00012738  μg/L  (<  0.01  μg/L).  No  Phase  II  studies  were  performed.  However,  basis  for 
the refined of Fpen and Log D determination were questioned by the CHMP prior to any conclusion on 
the  persistent,  bioaccumulative  and  toxic  (PBT)  properties  of  dexmedetomidine  and  its  risk  for  the 
environment. Following clarifications provided by the applicant, the CHMP considered that a risk for the 
environment due to the intended use of dexmedetomidine in ICU patients is not expected. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
Overall, the non-clinical aspects of dexmedetomidine have been adequately documented and meet the 
requirements to support this application. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic (PK) data were derived from phase I clinical pharmacology studies, that included 333 
healthy subjects, 20 with hepatic impairment, 6 with renal impairment and 60 paediatric subjects. In 
addition,  studies  have  been  performed  in  order  to  investigate  the  potential  for  drug-drug  interaction 
and  included  healthy  subjects  (midazolam:  n=19;  alfentanil:n=9;  propofol:n=9;  rocuronium:  n=10; 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 19/79
 
 
 
 
isoflurane:n=9, 
esmolol:n=11/12). 
The 
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic 
profile 
of 
dexmedetomidine was also investigated in some specific studies. 
Concentrations of dexmedetomidine and its analysed metabolites were measured in plasma and urine 
using  both  GC/MS  and  HPLC-MS/MS  methods  in  the  PK  studies.  Dexmedetomidine  and  metabolites 
were  also  measured  in  faeces  by  radiolabel  detection.  Pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  determined 
using  non  compartmental  models.  In  addition,  population  PK  analyses  using  nonlinear  mixed  effects 
modeling  methodology  (NONMEM)  were  also  performed  including  data  from  patients  at  the  highest 
infusion rate (1.4 μg/kg/h) and also following infusion rate duration exceeding 24 hours. 
2.4.2.1. 
 Absorption  
No  bioavailability,  bioequivalence  and  food  interaction  studies  were  performed.  This  was  considered 
acceptable by the CHMP considering the proposed formulation is a clear, colourless solution containing 
dexmedetomidine, sodium chloride and water for injection and is intended for intravenous infusion. 
2.4.2.2. 
 Distribution 
Dexmedetomidine exhibits a rapid distribution phase with a central estimate of the distribution half-life 
of  about  6  minutes.  The  mean  estimate  of  the  Vss  is  approximately  1.16  to  to  2.16  l/kg  (90  to  151 
litres).  Dexmedetomidine  is  highly  bound  (94%)  to  human  plasma  proteins  including  α1-  acid 
glycoprotein  and  albumin,  the  latter  being  the  major  binding  protein.  No  apparent  concentration 
dependency  or  sex  related  differences  were  observed  in  the  range  of  0.85-85  ng/ml.    Up  to  1  % 
decrease  in  the  protein  binding  for  dexmedetomidine  was  noted  with  lidocaine,  for  the  other 
substances  (fentanyl,  ketorolac,  theophylline  and  digoxin),  the  decrease  in  protein  binding  was 
between  0.13-0.30  %.  Displacement  of  other  medicinal  products  (phenytoin,  warfarin,  ibuprofen, 
propranolol,  theophylline  and  digoxin)  by  dexmedetomidine  was  not  observed.  In  a  concentration 
range of 1-100 ng/ml, the total plasma protein bound fraction was 83 % the metabolite H-3. The free 
fraction of H-3 in plasma is observed to be three times higher than for dexmedetomidine.  
2.4.2.3. 
 Elimination 
Dexmedetomidine  is  primarily  eliminated  by  metabolism.  Direct  glucuronidation  (main  pathway),  N-
methylation and oxidation occurred. In a mass balance study, the majority of the radioactive dose was 
mainly recovered in urine (about 94%) with a dose identified for approximately 66%. Approximately 6 
% of the radioactivity was not identified in plasma. Unchanged parent drug was not observed in urine 
and only trace amounts were noted in faeces. The radioactivity declined over a period of 9 days, traces 
were  still  present  up  to  24  days.  The  majority  of  the  total  radioactivity  in  plasma  constituted  of 
dexmedetomidine (14.7 %), G-Dex-1 (35 %), G-Dex-2 (6%), H-1 (21 %) and H-3 (10 %). In urine, 
the majority of the dose was excreted as G-Dex-1 and G-Dex-2 (20 % and 14 % respectively) and H-1 
(15  %).  Some  secondary  metabolites  formed  from  another  oxidative  metabolite  3-OH  were  also 
observed in urine (G-OH and COOH), with 8 and 5 % respectively. Dexmedetomidine was not detected 
in urine and only trace amounts in faeces were observed. A large part of the dose in urine, 28 %, was 
not  identified.  In  faeces,  only  trace  amounts  of  the  known  metabolites  were  detected  and  with 
approximately 2 % of the dose unidentified.  
After intravenous infusion, the mean estimate of the elimination t1/2 is approximately 1.9 to 2.5 hours 
(min 1.35 h and max 3.68 h) and total plasma clearance, the PK parameter interrelating i.v. infusion 
rate with steady-state plasma concentration, has mean estimated values of 0.46 to 0.73 l/h/kg (35.7 
to  51.1  l/h).  In  healthy  volunteers,  the  clearance  values  observed  suggested  that  dexmedetomidine 
was a medium to high extraction ratio substance. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 20/79
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.2.4. 
 Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Although  clearance  appeared  to  be  higher  at  2.5  μg/kg/h,  dose  proportionality  has  been  shown  for 
dexmetomidine  up  to  this  dose  covering  thus  the  therapeutic  dose  range  of  interest,  i;e  0.2-1.4 
μg/kg/h.  No  convincing  time  dependency  has  been  observed  in  dexmetomidine  PK  while  high  inter-
individual  variability  has  been  noted:  57%  to  63%  for  clearance  and  60-68%  for  volume  of 
distribution. This is suggested to be mainly due to the differences in the severity of the disease in ICU 
patients  and  is  considered  manageable  given  dexmetomidine  is  dosed  to  its  effects  and  administered 
under close surveillance. 
2.4.2.5. 
 Special populations 
Specific phases I studies evaluating renal and hepatic functions, paediatric population, effects of race 
and age were conducted. Other data related to age, gender and weight were derived from population 
PK analyses.  
A  specific  study  was  conducted  in  subjects  with  stable  severe  renal  impairment  (creatinine  clearance 
<30 ml/min)  after  a  single  10-minute 
i.v. 
infusion  of  dexmedetomidine  0.6  μg/kg.  The 
pharmacokinetics  of  dexmedetomidine  in  these  subjects  was  not  altered  relative  to  healthy  subjects 
(creatinine clearance >80 ml/min).  
A specific study was conducted in subjects with mild, moderate and severe hepatic impairment based 
on Child-Pugh classification (sum Child Pugh scores of 5-6, 7-9 and 10-15) after a single 10-minute i.v. 
infusion  of  dexmedetomidine  0.6  μg/kg.  Dexmedetomidine  plasma  protein  binding  is  decreased  in 
subjects  with  hepatic  impairment  compared  with  healthy  subjects.  The  mean  percentage  of  unbound 
dexmedetomidine  in  plasma  ranged  from  8.5%  in  healthy  subjects  to  17.9%  in  subjects  with  severe 
hepatic  impairment.  Subjects  with  varying  degrees  of  hepatic  impairment  had  decreased  hepatic 
clearance  of  dexmedetomidine  and  prolonged  plasma  elimination  t1/2.  The  mean  plasma  clearance 
values of unbound dexmedetomidine for subjects with mild, moderate, and severe hepatic impairment 
were  59%,  51%  and  32%  of  those  observed  in  the  normal  healthy  subjects,  respectively.  The  mean 
t1/2 for the subjects with mild, moderate or severe hepatic impairment was prolonged to 3.9, 5.4, and 
7.4 hours, respectively. 
Single  and  multiple  dose  studies  were  conducted  in  children  and  adolescent  including  24  pediatric 
subjects (age 2.3-11.5 years of age) and 36 paediatric subjects (12 patients in the age range of 2 to 
<6  months,  17  patients  in  the  age  range  6  to  <12  months  and  7  patients  in  the  range  of  12  to  20 
months),  respectively.  Dexmedetomidine  half  life  appears  similar  to  that  seen  in  adults.  In  the  age 
groups 2-20 months and 2-6 years, body weight-adjusted plasma clearance appeared higher (1.2 and 
1.0  l/h/kg, respectively) but decreased in older children (0.8 l/h/kg) to be comparable to adults (0.5-
0.6 l/h/kg).  
A  specific  study  was  conducted  to  evaluate  the  effect  of  age  after  a  single  10-minute  i.v.  infusion  of 
dexmedetomidine  0.6  μg/kg  and  included  20  subjects  >65  years.  Nine  subjects  out  of  20  were  74 
years or older (up to 83 years). The Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) scores for sedation indicated a higher 
sensitivity in young subjects, and also females had a tendency to report higher level of sedation than 
males  during  the  infusion  and  immediately  after.  Age  did  not  appear  to  influence  on  the 
pharmacokinetics of dexmedetomidine. 
Population  pharmacokinetic  analyses  did  not  reveal  any  significant  effect  of  age.  In  these  analyses, 
there  was  a  tendency  to  increased  sedation  in  female  subjects.  Although  variability  was  large,  a 
relationship between weight and both clearance and volume of distribution of dexmetomidine was also 
noted. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 21/79
 
 
 
 
 
Specific  studies  were  conducted  in  Caucasian,  South  Korean  and  Japanese  subjects  to  evaluate  the 
effect of race. There were no significant differences observed between these populations after multiple 
dosing.  The  population  PK  analyses  provided  no  further  information  with  respect  to  race,  since  the 
major proportion of subjects in these analyses were Caucasians. 
2.4.2.6. 
 Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
In  vitro  studies  suggested  that  the  oxidative  metabolism  of  dexmetomidine  is  mediated  by  several 
enzymes (CYP2A6, CYP1A2, CYP2E1, CYP2D6 and CYP2C19) with no apparent predominant pathways. 
Dexmetomidine  has  shown  strongest  properties  for  inhibition  of  CYP2D6,  CYP3A4  and  CYP2B6.  Thus, 
interaction  potential  in  vivo  may  exist  between  dexmedetomidine  and  substrates  with  dominant 
CYP2B6  metabolism.  Inducing  properties  were  also  shown  for  dexmetomidine  on  CYP1A2,  CYP2B6, 
CYP2C8, CYP2C9 and CYP3A4. Induction in vivo cannot be excluded although the clinical significance is 
unknown. Studied metabolites (H-1 analogue and H-3) appeared to inhibit CYP2B6 and CYP2C19 to a 
level  suggesting  a  limited  interaction  potential  in  vivo.  In  addition,  In  vitro  studies  indicated  that 
dexmetomidine was not regulated via the p-glycoprotein pathway. 
The  potential  interactions  were  studied  in  humans  for  the  following  drugs:  isoflurane,  propofol, 
alfentanil,  midazolam. Although  no  pharmacokinetic interactions  were  observed  with  these  drugs,  co-
administration led to an enhancement of the pharmacodynamic effects. 
Furthermore,  a  slight  increase  in  the  concentrations  of  rocuronium  after  administration  of 
dexmedetomidine was initiated, likely due to  steady state concentration of rocuronium  that was not 
reached (t ½ between 66-80 minutes).  The infusion rate was higher than the anticipated elimination 
rate, and a higher than targeted dexmedetomidine concentration was therefore observed. 
Co-administration with esmolol suggested modest enhancement of hypotensive and bradycardic effects. 
2.4.2.7. 
 Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
See above. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
2.4.3.1. 
 Mechanism of action 
Dexmedetomidine  is  a  selective  alpha-2  receptor  agonist  with  a  broad  range  of  pharmacological 
properties.  It  has  a  sympatholytic  effect  through  decrease  of  the  release  of  noradrenaline  in 
sympathetic nerve endings. Unlike other sedative agents used in standard of care and acting as GABA 
receptor  antagonists  (e.g  midazolam,  propofol),  its  effects  are  claimed  to  be  mediated  through 
decreased firing of locus coeruleus, the predominant noradrenergic nucleus, situated in the brainstem 
conferring a mechanism of arousal and different form of sedation. 
2.4.3.2. 
 Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamic  effects  of  dexmedetomidine  were  studied  on  haemodynamic  variables,  respiratory 
system,  gastrointestinal  tract  and  endocrine  systems.  Sedative  and  analgesic  effects  were  also 
investigated.  Mechanistical  studies  covering  the  effects  of  dexmedetomidine  on  the  function  of  the 
sympathetic  nervous  system  were  done  to  characterise  pharmacological  mechanisms  underlying  the 
observed  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  dexmedetomidine.  Some  of  these  studies  were  previously 
discussed in relation to the pharmacokinetic profile of dexmedetomidine. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 22/79
 
 
 
 
 
Sedative Effects 
Following a two-stage dexmedetomidine infusion continued for up to 24 h, after an initial loading dose, 
dexmedetomidine-treated  subjects  consistently  exhibited  greater  average  sedation  than  placebo-
treated  subjects.  In  one  study,  VAS  sedation  scores  revealed  no  statistically  significant  difference 
between  0.6  ng/mL  and  1.25  ng/mL  dexmedetomidine  groups.  The  percentage  of  time  at  Ramsay 
sedation  scale  (RSS)  scores  of  3,  4,  or  5  revealed  a  dose-response  among  dexmedetomidine-treated 
subjects, with 0.6 ng/mL and 1.25 ng/mL groups exhibiting a longer duration of sedation than the 0.3 
ng/mL  group  during  the  12-  and  24-hour  infusions.  Results  on  Critical  Flicker  Fusion  Treshold  (CFFT) 
suggested  an  arousal  effect  easily  achieved  with  dexmetomidine  as  no  differences  were  observed  as 
compared to placebo. Overall, the rate of development of sedation (measured by the median time to a 
RSS score of 4 or higher within the first hour) was rapid during dexmedetomidine administration when 
the infusion was initiated with a rapid loading dose, ranging from a median of 15 minutes (0.6 ng/ml 
group)  to  33  minutes  (0.3  ng/ml  group)  after  the  start  of  the  infusion.  Sedation  in  the  1.25  ng/ml 
group developed at a slower rate than in 0.6 ng/ml group possibly due to the loading dose infused at a 
slower rate. The rate of onset of sedation in the absence of a loading dose has not been studied. The 
mean  RSS  score  of  3  or  higher  was  constantly  rated  starting  from  a  dexmedetomidine  plasma 
concentration  range  of  0.2  to  0.3  ng/ml.  It  also  appears  that  a  plateau  in  the  level  of  sedation  was 
achieved  between  0.7  ng/ml  and  1.25ng/ml  target  concentration  for  dexmedetomidine  groups, 
corresponding  to  maintenance  infusion  rates  between  0.337-0.7µg/kg/hr,  and  sedation  did  not 
increase further at higher dexmedetomidine concentration ranges. In another study including Japanese 
subjects, mean VAS sedation scores were statistically significantly greater than placebo at all targeted 
concentrations  (ranging  from  0.3-1.25  ng/ml)  except  0.1  ng/ml.  Only  the  1.25  ng/ml  concentration 
differed significantly from placebo, suggesting that treated subjects were easily arousable and able to 
complete the test. The four highest dose groups spent most of the treatment period with RSS score  of 
3,  4  or  5.  No  statistically  significant  differences  were  seen  between  active  or  placebo  groups  with 
regard to RSS scores of 6 (i.e. asleep) suggesting that patients although sedated, were not rendered 
unconscious with the active treatment. 
Haemodynamic, cardiovascular effects 
Several  cases  of  bradycardia  and  sinus  pauses  have  been  reported  after  dexmedetomidine 
administration in healthy volunteers. The reported sinus pauses have lasted up to 30 seconds. Some of 
the  reported  sinus  pauses  have  been  associated  with  unconsciousness,  convulsions,  collapse  and 
bradycardia, but all reported sinus pauses have resolved without sequelae. 
A biphasic change on blood pressure has been observed with dexmedetomidine, with decreases at the 
low concentrations, followed by a return to baseline, and increases over the mean baseline level when 
the plasma concentration of dexmedetomidine was > 3.2 ng/ml. Heart Rate  (HR) decreased until the 
actual mean plasma concentration of dexmedetomidine ranged from 3.2 to 5.1 ng/ml, after which HR 
reached a plateau. 
Dexmedetomidine  administration  caused  dose-related  decreases 
in  cardiac  output  (CO)  of 
approximately 20% to 30% at dexmedetomidine plasma concentrations of 2 to 4 ng/ml, but at higher 
concentrations  no  further  decrease  in  CO  was  observed.  Decreases  in  CO  have  been  associated  with 
reduced hepatic elimination clearance of dexmedetomidine and decreased cerebral blood flow velocity. 
The  safety  of  dexmedetomidine  has  not  studied  in  patients  requiring  maintenance  of  normal  cerebral 
blood flow. 
Respiratory effects 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 23/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dexmedetomidine has caused a modest reduction in respiratory rate (RR) and/or ventilation in several 
clinical  pharmacology  studies,  and  in  some  cases  supplementary  oxygen  has  been  administered  to 
maintain  blood  oxygen  saturation  levels.  There  are  also  several  reports  of  apnoea  and  abnormal 
breathing  pattern  associated  with  dexmedetomidine  administrations,  but  no  ventilatory  support  has 
been  needed.  However,  results  on  respiratory  effects  are  not  consistent  throughout  all  clinical 
pharmacology  studies,  e.g.  low  saturation  of  peripheral  oxygen  (SpO2)  values  observed  after 
dexmedetomidine  in  some  studies  have  been  attributed  to  upper  airway  obstruction  during  sedation 
rather  than  to  direct  effects  on  respiratory  system.  Dexmedetomidine  has  potentiated  the  respiration 
depressant  effect  of  alfentanil,  when  the  drugs  were  given  concomitantly,.  Dexmedetomidine  did  not 
cause significant respiratory depression when compared to remifentanil in healthy volunteers, despite 
clearly deeper sedation (Hsu Y et al., 2004). 
Analgesic effects 
In human pharmacology, a decrease of pain perception has been generally observed with an increase 
of dexmedetomidine concentration ranging from 0.7-8.4 ng/ml. 
In  an  interaction  study  with  alfentanil,  dexmedetomidine  was  analgesic  at  the  target  plasma 
concentrations of 0.3 and 0.6 ng/ml, which effect was additive with the analgesic action of alfentanil. 
In  addition,  dexmedetomidine  has  not  shown  to  be  as  effective  analgesic  as  some  opioids  (e.g  
fentanyl,  remifentanil)  reaching  a  maximal  analgesic  effect  after  an  injected  dose  of  0.50  μg/kg. 
However, some literature data suggest that no analgesic effect is observed with  dexmedetomidine as 
compared  with  placebo  (Angst  MS  et  al.,  2004),  others  indicate  that  dexmedetomidine  reduced 
consumption of other analgesic drugs postoperatively (Cicek M et al., 2006, Gunes Y et al., 2008). 
Effect on Noradrenaline (NA) 
In  a  study  using  dexmetomidine  as  a  0.375  µg/kg  bolus  over  1  minute,  followed  immediately  by  a 
0.375 µg/kg/h infusion, the concentration of NA in plasma decreased to about 0.1-0.2 nmol/l in all 4 
healthy subjects from a baseline concentration of 1.62±0.45 nmol/l. Maximal effects were noted about 
2  hours  after  the  beginning  of  the  infusion.  After  termination  of  the  infusion,  NA  levels  gradually 
increased, although they were still below baseline 2 hours after termination of the infusion. 
In  another  study  using  three  different  doses  of  dexmetomidine (0.10,  0.30  and  0.60  µg/kg),  a  dose-
dependent decrease in NA concentrations was observed. After the highest dexmedetomidine dose (0.6 
ug/kg), average peak drug concentrations were 1.068 ng/mL, which were associated with a decline in 
the  NA  concentrations  from  a  baseline  value  of  0.11  ng/mL  to  0.04  ng/mL  at  0.25  hours  postdosing. 
Effects  at  the  0.1  ug/kg  dose  level  were  minimal.  NA  levels  returned  to  baseline  values  or  higher  8 
hours after dosing. 
Endocrine and metabolic effects 
After  single  dosing  of  dexmetomidine  in  5  healthy  males,  significant  and  transient  dose  dependent 
increase  in  plasma  human  growth  hormone  (hGH)  concentrations  was  seen  but  no  significant 
alterations in cortisol plasma concentrations were noted after rapid dexmedetomidine injections (12.5-
75  μg)  when  compared  with  placebo.  No  significant  dexmedetomidine  induced  effects  could  be 
observed in plasma renine activity. 
After rapid dexmedetomidine i.v. dosing (0.25-2.0 μg/kg), a significant and dose related increase (up 
to 26% increase from baseline) in arterial glucose concentrations has been measured after 10 minutes. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 24/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  same  study,  dose  dependent  and  persistent  decreases  in  body  temperature  up  to  0.74°C  that 
were significant when compared with placebo (0.02°C) were noted. 
Relationship between the infusion rate and the target plasma concentration/sedative effect 
Further  analyses 
from  PK/PD  studies  were  presented  supporting  a  dose  relationship 
for 
dexmedetomidine. Results are summarised in Table 2, Figures 2,3 and 4. 
Study DEX95-007 
Table 2 
Subjects were increasingly sedated by incremental rises in plasma dexmedetomidine concentration. 
Figure 2 
A dose-response curve for VAS Sedation and for OAA/S is observed. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 25/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 
A dose-response over the range tested (note that Log10 of 2.5 ng is 0.4), which equates to an infusion 
of 1.4 μg/kg/h in the target population is also noted. 
Study DEX95-028 
Figure 4 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 26/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An analysis of the median Ramsay scores at each time interval by target plasma concentration group 
revealed  initial  dose  dependency  with  convergence  due  to  diurnal  placebo  effects  towards  the  end  of 
the infusion, after 15 hours. There is a dose-response over the first 15 hours which does not indicate 
that a sedation plateau has been reached over this concentration range. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The pharmacokinetic profile (absorption, distribution, metabolism and elimination) of dexmedetomidine 
has been studied following short term IV administration in healthy volunteers and long term infusion in 
ICU population.  
The pharmacokinetic profile dexmedetomidine in stable severe renal impaired subjects was not altered 
relative  to  healthy  subjects  (creatinine  clearance  >80  ml/min)  and  therefore  no  dose  adjustment  is 
required in case of renal impairment.  
Changes in the pharmacokinetic profile of dexmedetomidine in patients with various degrees of hepatic 
impairment  (Child-Pugh  Class  A,  B,  or  C)  were  observed  as  compared  to  healthy  subjects. 
Dexmedetomidine plasma protein binding is decreased in subjects with hepatic impairment.The mean 
percentage of unbound dexmedetomidine in plasma ranged from 8.5% in healthy subjects to 17.9% in 
subjects  with  severe  hepatic  impairment.  Subjects  had  also  decreased  hepatic  clearance  of 
dexmedetomidine  and  prolonged  plasma  elimination  t1/2.  On  this  basis,  section  4.2  of  the  SmPC 
recommends  that  dexmedetomidine  should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment 
and  that  a  dose  reduction  may  be  considered  in  this  population.  At  the  CHMP  request,  a  warning  in 
section 4.4 of the SmPC was also added on severe hepatic impairment and possible excessive dosing 
that may  lead to over sedation and increase risk of adverse reactions. 
There are limited data in children and adolescents from 2 month to 17 years of age. Dexmedetomidine 
half  life  appears  similar  to  that  seen  in  adults.  In  the  age  groups  2-20  months  and  2-6  years,  body 
weight-adjusted plasma clearance appeared higher (1.2 and 1.0  l/h/kg, respectively) but decreased in 
older  children  (0.8 l/h/kg)  to  be  comparable  to  adults  (0.5-0.6 l/h/kg).  At  the  CHMP  request,  this 
information has been reflected in the SmPC  and a statement  was also included to reflect that plasma 
clearance may be lower in children < 2 months due to immaturity. However, the safety and efficacy of 
dexmedetomidine in children and adolescents has not been established (see clinical safety 2.6.9). 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 27/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect of age was specifically investigated and 20 subjects >65 years were studied. Nine subjects out 
of 20 were 74 years or older (up to 83 years). Age did not appear to influence on the pharmacokinetic 
profile of dexmedetomidine and therefore no dose adjustment is required in elderly population.  
There  were  no  significant  PK  differences  between  Caucasian  South  Korean  and  Japanese  subjects. 
Additional  population  PK  analyses  did  not  provide  further  information  as  the  majority  of  the  subjects 
were Caucasians. 
Population  pharmacokinetic  analyses  did  not  reveal  any  significant  effect  of  age.  In  these  analyses, 
there  was  a  tendency  to  increased  sedation  in  female  subjects.  Although  variability  was  large,  a 
relationship between weight and both clearance and volume of distribution of dexmetomidine was also 
noted. 
Interaction  studies  have  only  been  performed  in  adults.  Co-administration  of  dexmedetomidine  with 
anaesthetics, sedatives, hypnotics, and opioids is likely to lead to an enhancement of effects. Specific 
studies  have  confirmed  these  effects  with  isoflurane,  propofol,  alfentanil,  and  midazolam.  No 
pharmacokinetic  interactions  between  dexmedetomidine  and  isoflurane,  propofol,  alfentanil  and 
midazolam  have  been  observed.  A  modest  enhancement  of  hypotensive  and  bradycardic  effect  was 
observed  with  esmolol.  In  vitro  study  suggests  that  interaction  potential  in  vivo  exists  between 
dexmedetomidine and substrates with dominant CYP2B6 metabolism while induction in vivo cannot be 
excluded  on  CYP1A2,  CYP2B6,  CYP2C8,  CYP2C9  and  CYP3A4.  This  information  has  been  considered 
relevant and reflected in the SmPC. 
No  relevant  changes  in  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  rocuronium  were  noted  when  co-administered 
with dexmedetomidine. 
Specific  pharmacodynamic  studies  and  literature  data  confirmed  the  effects  of  dexmedetomidine  as 
typical of an alpha-2 adrenoceptor agonist in humans. The moderate sedative effects accompanied by 
analgesic  properties  are  of  benefits  for  its  intended  clinical  use  in  the  post  surgical,  intensive  care 
setting.  Dexmedetomidine  can  be  considered  relatively  free  from  respiratory  depressive  effects  in 
humans.  Nevertheless,  a  plateau  effect  was  observed  between  0.7  ng/ml  and  1.25ng/ml  target 
concentration  for  dexmedetomidine,  corresponding  to  maintenance  infusion  rates  between  0.337-
0.7µg/kg/hr,  and  sedation  did  not  increase  further  at  higher  dexmedetomidine  concentration  ranges. 
On  this  basis,  further  analyses  on  the  relationship  between  the  infusion  rate  and  the  target  plasma 
concentration/effect were provided to support the proposed dose range of 0.2-1.4 µg/kg/hr and were 
considered satisfactory (see Table 2, Figures 2,3 and 4). 
In  line  with  pre  clinical  findings,  effects  on  haemodynamic,  cardiovascular  systems  were  observed. 
Following  administration  of  dexmedetomidine,  a  dose  dependent  reduction  in  plasma  noradrenaline 
level  was  also  shown  accompanied  by  significant  reductions  in  cardiac  output  and  mean  arterial 
pressure.  A  number  of  warnings  had  been  initially  included  in  the  SmPC  regarding  these  effects. 
However,  considering  the  clinical  intended  use  in  ICU  setting,  the  CHMP  was  concerned  about  the 
haemodynamic  changes  observed  with  dexmedetomidine  and  the  high  risk  population  (e.g  with 
cardiovascular  conditions  or  requiring  stable  cerebral  blood  flow).  Contraindications  in  patients  with 
advanced heart block (grade 2 or 3) unless paced, uncontrolled hypotension and acute cerebrovascular 
conditions  were  subsequently  added  and  reinforcement  of  the  warnings  were  made.  These  changes 
were considered sufficient to ensure safe use of the product in the intended ICU setting. 
On  the  basis  of  available  literature  data,  the  CHMP  questioned  the  observed  lack  of  effect  on  cortisol 
suppression  in  humans  and  required  further  discussion  on  this  finding.  This  is  reported  under  the 
clinical safety 2.6. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 28/79
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Overall,  the  pharmacological  profile  of  dexmedetomidine  in  human  studies  has  been  adequately 
documented and meet the requirements to support this application.  
2.5.  Clinical efficacy  
The  following  indication  is  initially  applied  for:  Dexdor  is  indicated  for  patients  requiring  light  to 
moderate sedation in intensive care during or after intubation. Dexdor is indicated in adults aged over 
18 years. 
The  clinical  development  program  to  support  the  claimed  indication  consisted  of  early  studies 
comparing  dexmedetomidine  with  placebo  (W97-249,  W98-274,  J-DEX-99-001,  W97-245  and 
W97-246)  and    more  recent  studies  comparing  dexmedetomidine  to  either  midazolam  or  propofol 
(3005011,  3005012)  following  the  CHMP  advice  in  October  2000.  Midazolam  and  propofol  account 
for 95% of sedative treatments in the ICU.  
In addition, 3 open label studies (1999-016, W99-314 and W99-302) and a phase IV study (2001-
001)  were  presented  in  the  dossier  (1999-016,  W99-314  and  W99-302)  and  their  results  are 
briefly summarised below.  
2.5.1.  Dose response study 
There  are  no  ICU  studies  that  specifically  evaluated  the  relationship  between  dose/concentration  and 
sedative  effect.  In  all  studies,  dexmedetomidine  has  been  titrated  to  effect,  i.e  patients  were  not 
randomised to different dexmedetomidine doses or the effect of different doses were not systematically 
investigated for the same patient. This was considered acceptable by CHMP. 
2.5.2.  Main studies 
2.5.2.1. 
 Placebo controlled studies 
The placebo controlled studies were designed as follows: 
- W97-249: a Phase II, single centre, two part study (part I: open-label, part II randomised, placebo 
controlled, double-blind) with the primary objective of evaluating the safety, efficacy and titratability of 
dexmedetomidine  versus  placebo,  with  midazolam  in  post-operative  coronary  artery  bypass  grafting 
(CABG)  patients  requiring  ventilation,  sedation  and  intensive  care.  The  study  was  conducted  in  the 
Netherlands. 
-  W98-274:  a  Phase  II,  multicentre,  randomised,  placebo  controlled,  double-blind  study  with  the 
primary  objective  of  evaluating  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  dexmedetomidine  versus  placebo,  with 
midazolam,  in  post-operative  patients  requiring  ventilation,  sedation  and  intensive  care  following 
surgery. The study was conducted in Germany. 
-  J-DEX-99-001:  a  Phase  III,  multicentre,  two  part  study  (part  I:  open-label,  part  II  randomised, 
placebo  controlled,  double-blind)  with  the  primary  objective  of  evaluating  the  safety,  efficacy  and 
titratability  of  dexmedetomidine  versus  placebo  in  post-operative  ICU  patients  requiring  intubation 
ventilation after cardiac and upper abdominal surgery. The study was conducted in Japan. 
- W97-245: a Phase III, multicentre, two part study (part I: open-label, part II randomised, placebo 
controlled, double-blind) with the primary objective of evaluating the safety, efficacy and titratability of 
dexmedetomidine  versus  placebo,  with  midazolam,  in  ICU  patients  requiring  intubation  ventilation 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 29/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
following  surgery.  The  study  was  conducted  in  Austria,  Belgium,  France,  Germany,  Greece,  Italy,  the 
Netherlands, Spain, the United Kingdom and Canada. 
- W97-246: a Phase III, multicentre, two part study (part I: open-label, part II randomised, placebo 
controlled, double-blind) with the primary objective of evaluating the safety, efficacy and titratability of 
dexmedetomidine  versus  placebo,  with  propofol,  in  ICU  patients  requiring  intubation  ventilation 
following surgery. The study was conducted in in Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, the 
Netherlands, Spain, the United Kingdom and Canada. 
The maximum duration of infusion was 30 or 72 hours for W97-249 and W98-274, respectively and 24 
hours in all phase III studies. 
2.5.2.1.1. 
 Methods 
Study participants 
Main inclusion criteria 
Males or females requiring ventilation for a minimum of 6 except for study  W97-249 (8  hours), aged 
over 18 except for study J-DEX-99-001 (over 20 years) and sedation to a Ramsay score of ≥3 except 
for  study  W98-274  using  a  bispectral  index  (BIS)  score  of  60-70  (deep  sleep)  then  70-95  when 
weaning appeared imminent. 
Main exclusion criteria 
In  study  W97-249,  these  were  CNS  trauma  or  intracranial  surgery,  subjects  requiring  neuromuscular 
blocking  agents  or  epidural/spinal  anaesthesia  or  who  were  grossly  obese.  In  all  other  placebo 
controlled  studies,  exclusion  criteria  mainly  included:  serious  CNS  trauma  or  intracranial  surgery, 
unstable  diabetes,  severe  hepatic  failure,  grossly  obese,  excessive  bleeding  likely  to  result  in  re-
surgery and clinically significant arrhythmia or other important cardiac condition or factor. 
Treatment 
Placebo- controlled studies consisted of an open phase (part I) followed by a randomised double-blind 
placebo controlled phase (part II) apart from study W97-274. Dexmedetomidine administration was to 
begin  within  1  hour  of  admission  to  ICU.  In  phase  II  and  III  studies,  subjects  were  to  receive 
dexmedetomidine  1µg/kg  or  6  µg/kg/h  loading  dose  over  10  minutes,  respectively  followed  by  an 
initial  maintenance  infusion  of  0.2  µg/kg/h  or  0.4  µg/kg/h.  Thereafter,  subjects  were  to  be  titrated 
between 0.2 and 0.7 µg/kg/h (in increments of 0.1 µg/kg/h) to maintain sedation: Ramsay score of ≥ 3 
during  intubation  or  2  or  higher  after  extubation; BIS  score  of  60-70  while  intubated,  a  BIS  score  of 
70-95 during weaning and a BIS score of 85-95 after extubation (W97-274). In part II, midazolam or 
propofol were used as rescue medication for sedation and morphine as treatment for pain.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  the  amount  of  rescue  medication  used  to  maintain  sedation. 
Sedation assessments (Ramsay or BIS scores) were made every 10 minutes for 30 minutes for 1 hour 
then  hourly  thereafter,  prior  to  and  10  minutes  after  each  rate  change  or  administration  of  rescue 
medication and during recovery Pain was assessed by direct communication or by autonomic signs. 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  the  amount  of  rescue  propofol  (J-DEX-99-001,  W97-245)  or 
midazolam  (W97-246)  used  maintain  the  Ramsay  score  ≥  3  or  BIS  score  of  60-70  while  intubated,  a 
BIS score of 70-95 during weaning and a BIS score of 85-95 after extubation (W97-274). 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 30/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.2.1.2.  Results 
In  study  W97-249,  twelve  patients  were  enrolled  in  Part  I;  one  prematurely  discontinued  due  to 
circulatory  collapse  and  subsequently died  of  multi  organs  failure,  thus  11  subjects  completed  part  I. 
Twelve  new  subjects  enrolled  and  completed  part  II.  In  part  I,  all  subjects  remained  successfully 
sedated through intubation and post extubation. The mean hourly RSS score was 3.9 (by AUC) and the 
mean  (±SD) dose  of  dexmedetomidine  was  5.4  (±1.58)  µg/kg  over  mean  duration  of  13.8  (±1.48)  h. 
One patient received midazolam 0.00057 mg/h as an infusion for additional sedation. In part II , the 6 
dexmedetomidine  patients  required  no  additional  midazolam  (0.00  mg/kg/h)  whereas  5  of  the  6 
placebo  patients  required  midazolam  (0.18  (±0.005)  mg/kg/h);  p  =  0.010).  The  mean  hourly  RSS 
scores were similar (dexmedetomidine 3.5, placebo 3.4). The total dose of morphine used was higher 
in  the  placebo  (0.008mg/kg/h)  group  than  in  the  dexmedetomidine  group  (0.001  mg/kg/h);  p  = 
0.040. Time to spontaneous breathing was similar. 
In  study  W98-274,  30  subjects  entered  the  randomised  trial:  15  on  dexmedetomidine  and  15  on 
placebo.  Patients  were  post-operative  to  cardiac  surgery  (53%),  cancer  (>  20%  in  each  group)  head 
and  aneurysm  requiring  prosthesis  (13%).  Two  patients  in  the  placebo  group  were  prematurely 
withdrawn  :  one  could  not  be  managed  with  BIS  and  one  took  a  disallowed  medication.  There  was  a 
significant  difference  in  the  primary  efficacy  variable,  amount  of  rescue  propofol  used,  in  favour  of 
dexmedetomidine.  During  intubation  the  dexmedetomidine  group  required  0.87  mg/kg/h  of  propofol 
compared to the placebo group which required 1.52 mg/kg/h of propofol (p = 0.0058). During weaning 
the dexmedetomidine group required 0.17 mg/kg/h of propofol compared to the placebo group which 
required 0.62 mg/kg/h of propofol (p = 0.0003). Mean BIS scores were comparable during intubation 
(dexmedetomidine:  63,  placebo:    66.6),  weaning  (dexmedetomidine:  67.8,  placebo:  71.7)  and 
extubation  (dexmedetomidine:  89.0,  placebo:  88.0),  where  the  lower  number  indicates  deeper 
sedation.During  intubation  the  total  dose  of  morphine  required  was  not  significantly  lower  for 
dexmedetomidine  patients  than  for  placebo  patients  during  drug  administration  (dexmedetomidine 
0.48 mg/h of morphine, placebo 0.76 mg of morphine, p=0.1741). 
In  study  J-DEX-99-001,  one  hundred  and  thirteen  subjects  entered  the  randomised  trial:  57  on 
dexmedetomidine and 56 on placebo were included. Patients were post-operative to cardiac surgery (> 
85%)  or  abdominal  surgery  (>  14%).  A  total  of  5  patients  in  the  dexmedetomidine  group  and  3 
patients  in  the  placebo  group  were  prematurely  withdrawn.  There  was  a  significant  difference  in  the 
primary  efficacy  variable;  the  results  showed  that  85.5%  (47/55)  of  the  patients  in  the 
dexmedetomidine treated group, compared with 37.5% (21/56) in the placebo treated group, did not 
require  propofol  rescue  medication.    There  was  a  significant  difference  in  the  amount  of  rescue 
propofol  used,  in  favour  of  dexmedetomidine;  the  dexmedetomidine  group  required  84.6  mg  of 
propofol  compared  to  the  placebo  group  which  required  330.5  mg  of  propofol  during  the  intubation 
period (p = 0.0005) to maintain a RSS score ≥ 3. The RSS score was higher for dexmedetomidine than 
for placebo (dexmedetomidine 3.387, placebo 3.089, p = 0.032). Patients on dexmedetomidine (n=8) 
reached  a  RSS  score  of  1  (anxious,  agitated  or  restless)  on  less  occasions  compared  to  placebo  (n= 
15);  but  this  result  did  not  achieve  significance.    The  total  dose  of  morphine  required  was  lower  for 
dexmedetomidine  patients  than  for  placebo  patients  during  drug  administration  (dexmedetomidine 
0.097 mg/h of morphine, placebo 0.225 mg of morphine, p = 0.012). There was a difference in time to 
the  patient  being  ready  for  extubation  both  from  admission  to  ICU  (dexmedetomidine  median  427 
minutes,  placebo  median  395  minutes;  p  =  0.0317)  and  from  start  of  study  treatment 
(dexmedetomidine median 405 minutes, placebo median 376 minutes; p = 0.0319). 
In study W97-245, 353 postoperative (cardiac surgery, laparotomy or head and neck surgery) subjects 
were  randomised  to  receive  dexmedetomidine  (n  =  178)  or  placebo  (n  =  175)  in  part  II. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 31/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dexmedetomidine-treated subjects required significantly less midazolam for sedation (RSS score ≥ 3) 
compared to placebo-treated subjects during the intubation period (mean dose of midazolam: 4.83 vs. 
18.61  mg,  p  =  0.0011).  During  the  study  drug  infusion  period,  dexmedetomidine-treated  subjects 
required  less  midazolam  for  sedation  (mean  dose:  0.29  mg/h  vs.  1.19  mg/h,  p  =  0.0001)  and  less 
morphine  for  pain  (mean  dose:  0.47  mg/h  vs.  0.83  mg/h,  p  <  0.0001)  than  subjects  in  the  placebo 
group. 
In study W97-246, 403 postoperative (cardiac surgery, laparotomy or head and neck surgery) subjects 
were randomised to receive dexmedetomidine (n = 203) or placebo (n = 198) in part II. There was a 
significant  difference  in  the  primary  efficacy  variable;  the  results  showed  that    patients  in  the 
dexmedetomidine  treated  group  required  significantly  less  propofol  for  sedation  during  intubation 
compared  with  the  placebo  treated  group  (mean  dose  of  propofol  72.59  mg  versus  504.69  mg, 
p<0.0001).  Significantly  less  morphine  was  required  in  the  dexmedetomidine  group  (0.43  mg/h  vs 
0.89 mg/h, p<0.0001).  
2.5.2.2. 
 Active controlled studies 
The active controlled studies were designed as follows: 
-  3005011:  A  phase  III,  multi-centre,  randomised,  double-blind  comparison  of  intravenous 
dexmedetomidine  with  propofol/midazolam  for  continuous  sedation  (24  hours  to  14  days)  of 
ventilated patients in intensive care unit. The study was conducted in Finland and Switzerland. 
-  3005012:  A  phase  III,  multi-centre,  randomised,  double-blind  comparison  of  intravenous 
dexmedetomidine  with  propofol  for  continuous  sedation  (24  hours  to  14  days)  of  ventilated 
patients  in  intensive  care  unit.  The  study  was  conducted  in  Belgium,  Finland,  Germany,  The 
Netherlands, Switzerland, Russia and the United Kingdom. 
-  3005013:  A  phase  III,  multi-centre,  randomised,  double-blind  comparison  of  intravenous 
dexmedetomidine with midazolam for continuous sedation (24 hours to 14 days) of ventilated 
patients in intensive care unit. The study was conducted in Belgium, Estonia, Finland, France, 
Germany; The Netherlands, Norway; Switzerland and the United Kingdom. 
According  to  protocol,  study  3005011  was  to  recruit  90  patients  as  a  pilot  phase  and  continue 
recruiting  up  to  900  patients  (450  in  the  dexmedetomidine  and  450  in  the  current  sedative  agent  , 
midazolam or propofol groups). However, only the pilot phase was conducted and the actual enrolment 
was 85 study subjects: 41 in the dexmedetomidine and 44 in the midazolam or propofol group. Due to 
slow recruitment rate, the pilot was terminated with 85 subjects recruited and, given the limitations of 
comparison with a combined standard of care group, the decision was made to close this study at the 
end of the pilot phase. Results of this study are briefly presented in this report. 
The  designs  of  3005011  and  3005012  are  presented  in  Figure  5  and  6.  Similar  design  as  study 
3005012 has been used for study 3005013, except that propofol was replaced by midazolam. 
Figure 5 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 32/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 
2.5.2.2.1.  Methods 
Study participants 
Main inclusion criteria 
These  included  subjects  with  age  ≥  18  years,  requiring  clinical  need  for  sedation  and  mechanical 
ventilation, who were expected to stay in ICU for ≥ 48 hours from admission, requiring sedation ≥ 24 
hours  from  time  of  randomisation,  with  written  informed  consent  obtained  from  legal  patient’s 
representative. 
In studies 3005012 and 3005013, subjects were prescribed light to moderate sedation (target RASS = 
0 to -3) and were initially intubated (or tracheotomised) and ventilated (with inspiratory assistance). 
Main exclusion criteria 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 33/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These  included  subjects  with  acute  severe  intracranial  or  spinal  neurological  disorder  due  to  vascular 
causes,  infection, intracranial  expansion  or  injury; uncompensated  acute  circulatory  failure  at  time  of 
randomisation (severe hypotension with mean arterial pressure [MAP] < 55 mmHg despite volume and 
pressors);  severe  bradycardia  (HR  <  50  beats/min);  atrioventricular  (AV)  conduction  block  II-III 
(unless  pacemaker  installed);  severe  hepatic  impairment  (bilirubin  >  101  μmol/L);  requiring  muscle 
relaxation  at  the  time  of  randomisation  (except  for  intubation  and  initial  stabilization);  with  a  loss  of 
hearing  or  vision,  or  any  other  condition  which  would  significantly  interfere  with  RASS  assessment; 
who  have  used  α2-agonists  or  antagonists  within  24  hours  prior  to  randomisation;  with  positive 
pregnancy test or currently lactating; receiving any investigational drug within the preceding 30 days; 
with  concurrent  participation  in  any  other  interventional  study  (any  study  in  which  patients  were 
allocated  to  different  treatment  groups  and/or  non-routine  diagnostic  or  monitoring  procedures  were 
performed) or previous participation in the study. 
In  studies  3005012  and  3005013,  additional  exclusion  criteria  were  subjects  with  burn  injuries  and 
other injuries requiring regular anaesthesia or surgery; who had or were expected to have treatment 
withdrawn or withheld due to poor prognosis; receiving sedation for therapeutic indications rather than 
to  tolerate  the  ventilator  (e.g.  epilepsy);  unlikely  to  require  continuous  sedation  during  mechanical 
ventilation  (e.g.  Guillain-Barré  syndrome);  unlikely  to  be  weaned  from  mechanical  ventilation;  e.g. 
diseases/injuries  primarily  affecting  the  neuromuscular  function  of  the  respiratory  apparatus  such  as 
clearly  irreversible  disease  requiring  prolonged  ventilatory  support  (e.g.  high  spinal  cord  injury  or 
advanced amyotrophic lateral sclerosis); with distal paraplegia. 
Treatments 
Treatment duration was to be at least for 24 hours and was limited to a maximum of 14 days. 
Dexmedetomidine  was  infused  without  a  loading  dose  at  an  initial  rate  of  0.8  μg/kg/h  for  1  hour. 
Previous  sedative  treatment  was  stopped  simultaneously  with  the  start  of  randomised  sedative 
treatment.  During  the  first  hour  of  randomised  treatment,  no  dosage  adjustments  were  allowed.  If 
necessary, rescue medication was given. Thereafter, the infusion rate of dexmedetomidine was varied 
as needed between 0.25 and a maximum of 1.4 μg/kg/h in order to maintain the target RASS score.  
Dosage steps for dexmedetomidine were: 0.25, 0.5, 0.8, 1.1, 1.4 μg/kg/h for study 3005011 and 0.2, 
0.45, 0.7,0.95, 1.2 and 1.4 μg/kg/h for studies 3005012 and 300513. 
After an initial bolus the infusion rate of rescue medication was varied as needed: between 0.8 and 4 
mg/kg/h for propofol and  between 0.04 mg/kg/h and 0.2 mg/kg/h for midazolam in study 3005011; 
between  0.3  and  4  mg/kg/h  for  propofol  in  study  3005012  and  between  0.03  mg/kg/h  and  0.2 
mg/kg/h  for  midazolam  in  study  3005013  Rescue  medication  was  also  counted  as  the  use  of  any  of 
opiates given for sedation and neuromuscular paralysis (this would lead to withdrawal). 
In each treatment group, the dose of infusion used was the nearest to the pre-randomisation does of 
propofol or midazolam, not exceeding the dose level 3 in studies 3005012 and 3005013. 
Dose levels for each study are presented in Tables 3 and 4. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 34/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3. Dose levels for study 3005011 
Dose level 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
Dexmedetomidine 
Infusion rate 
0.25 μg/kg/h 
0.5 μg/kg/h 
0.8 μg/kg/h 
1.1 μg/kg/h 
1.4 μg/kg/h 
Propofol 
Infusion rate 
0.8 mg/kg/h 
1.6 mg/kg/h 
2.4 mg/kg/h 
3.2 mg/kg/h 
4.0 mg/kg/h 
Table 4.  Dose levels for studies 3005012 and 3005013 
Dose level 
Infusion rate 
Dexmedetomidine 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
0.2 μg/kg/h 
0.45 μg/kg/h 
0.7 μg/kg/h 
0.95 μg/kg/h 
1.2 μg/kg/h 
1.4 μg/kg/h 
Propofol 
Infusion rate 
0.3 mg/kg/h 
0.8 mg/kg/h 
1.6 mg/kg/h 
2.4 mg/kg/h 
3.2 mg/kg/h 
4.0 mg/kg/h 
Main Objectives 
All active controlled studies had hierarchical co-primary objectives.  
3005011 
Midazolam 
Infusion rate 
0.04 mg/kg/h 
0.08 mg/kg/h 
0.12 mg/kg/h 
0.16 mg/kg/h 
0.20 mg/kg/h 
Midazolam 
Infusion rate 
0.03 mg/kg/h 
0.06 mg/kg/h 
0.09 mg/kg/h 
0.12 mg/kg/h 
0.16 mg/kg/h 
0.2 mg/kg/h 
First  co-primary  objective  was  to  evaluate  non-inferiority  of  dexmedetomidine  compared  with  current 
sedative  agent  (midazolam/propofol)  with  daily  sedation  stops,  in  maintaining  a  target  depth  of 
sedation in long stay ICU patients without rescue medication. The second co-primary objective was to 
evaluate  superiority  of  dexmedetomidine  compared  with  the  current  sedative  agent,  reducing  the 
length of ICU stay. To follow the hierarchy of co-primary endpoints, superiority was evaluated only if 
non-inferiority was shown. 
3005012 and 3005013  
First co-primary objective was to evaluate non-inferiority of dexmedetomidine compared with first line 
rescue  medication  (propofol  or  midazolam)  in  maintaining  a  target  depth  of  sedation  with  daily 
sedation  stops.  Second  co-primary  objective  was  to  evaluate  superiority  of  dexmedetomidine 
compared  with  first  line  rescue  medication  (propofol  or  midazolam),  in  reducing  the  duration  of 
mechanical  ventilation.  To  follow  hierarchy  of  the  co-primary  endpoints,  superiority  of  mechanical 
ventilation  was  evaluated  only  if  non-inferiority  of  maintaining  a  target  depth  of  sedation  was  first 
shown. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Co-Primary efficacy variables 
In study 3005011: 1) maintenance of target depth of sedation in long-stay ICU patients defined as the 
proportion of time during sedative infusion with a Richmond Agitation Sedation (RASS) score within the 
individually-prescribed target range without any rescue medication); 2) length of ICU stay in long-stay 
ICU patients, defined as time from randomisation to ‘medically fit for discharge’ based on the treating 
clinician’s decision that the study subject was medically fit for discharge  
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 35/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In studies 3005012 and 3005013: 1) maintenance of target depth of sedation in long-stay ICU patients 
defined  as  the  proportion  of  time  during  sedative  infusion  with  a  RASS  score  within  the  individually-
prescribed  target  range  (0  to  3)  without  first  line  rescue  medication;  2)  Duration  of  mechanical 
ventilation  defined  as  time  (hours)  from  randomisation  to  being  free  from  any  kind  of  mechanical 
ventilation provided that is not re-instituted within 48 hours. 
Secondary efficacy variables 
In study 3005011  : nurse’s assessment of subject  communication; duration of mechanical ventilation 
defined as time from randomisation to being free from any kind of mechanical ventilatory support for 
48 hours; weaning time defined as the time from decision to commence weaning to be being free from 
any  ventilatory  support;  ventilator-free  days  in  ICU  defined  as  number  of  days  during  the  ICU-stay 
without any mechanical ventilatory support, length of total hospital stay; actual length of stay (counted 
from  admission  and  randomisation);  time  to  ‘medically  fit  for  discharge’  from  hospital;  functional 
recovery during hospitalization; need for rescue medication to maintain sedation. 
In studies 3005012 and 3005013: nurse’s assessment of subject communication, length of ICU stay in 
long-stay ICU patients, defined as time from randomisation to ‘medically fit for discharge’ based on the 
treating clinician’s decision that the study subject was medically fit for discharge. 
Other efficacy variables 
Mainly,  addition  variables  were  related  to  ICU  cost  e.g  based  on  Treatment  Intervention  Scoring 
System (TISS). 
Sample size 
In study 3005011: for the first co primary endpoint, the non inferiority margin was set to a difference 
of 10%. Based on assumptions, about 420 patients per group would provide 90% power at one-sided 
0.025  significance  level.  For  the  second  co  primary  endpoint,  the  sample  size  calculation  was  450 
patients  per  group,  i.e  98%  power  to  detect  a  difference  in  length  of  ICU  stay  at  a  two-sided  0.05 
significance  level.  Therefore,  450  subjects  per  group  (450  on  dexmetomidine,  450  on  midazolam  or 
propofol) were planned for randomisation. 
In study 3005012 and 3005013: for the first co primary endpoint, the non inferiority margin was set to 
a difference of 15%. Based on assumptions, about 225 patients per group would provide 90% power at 
one-sided 0.025 significance level; For the second co primary endpoint, the sample size calculation was 
197  per  group,  i.e    90%  power  to  detect  a  difference  in  proportion  of  subjects  still  mechanically 
ventilated. Therefore, 250  subjects per group (250 on dexmetomidine, 250 on midazolam or propofol) 
were planned for randomisation. 
Randomisation 
The random allocation of treatments to subject numbers was performed according to the design of the 
study  by  a  two-step  procedure.  Firstly,  the  vials  containing  the  study  drugs  were  assigned  a  random 
package  number  using  the  randomly  permuted  blocks.  A  detailed  description  of  the  randomisation 
method, including the size of randomly permuted blocks used to balance the randomisation, is stored 
in  the  Department  of  Biostatistics  and  Data  Management.  Secondly,  study  subjects  were  randomised 
centrally, using an Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS), either to continue their current sedative 
agent  or  switch  to  dexmedetomidine  in  an  equal  allocation  ratio  1:1.  The  package  number  was  then 
assigned to the unique subject number allocated by the investigator.  
Blinding (masking) 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 36/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A double-dummy procedure was used to mask the identities of the study drugs. In order to maintain 
the  blind  for  all  study  personnel  involved  in  the  care  and  assessment  of  study  subjects,  all  stages  of 
the  preparation  of  all  study  drugs,  including  connection  and  disposal  of  syringes  and  infusion  lines, 
were  carried  out  in  confidence  only  by  nominated  independent  persons  who  were  not  involved  in 
making study-related assessments (except for study 3005013). None of the persons directly involved 
in  the  conduct  of  the  study  were  to  have  access  to  the  treatment  codes,  with  the  exception  of  the 
investigator  in  case  of  an  emergency.  In  such  case,  the  unblinding  of  the  treatment  code  for  an 
individual study subject was possible via the IVRS. 
Statistical methods 
In all active controlled studies, the Per Protocol (PP) population was used as primary analysis and (ITT) 
population as secondary analysis for the first co-primary efficacy variable evaluating non inferiority. For 
the other efficacy variables, the ITT population was used as primary analysis and a sensitivity analysis 
was performed using PP population, according to study protocol. For the efficacy variables other than 
co-primary or secondary, the following statistical methods were used:  Kaplan-Meier curves and Cox’s 
proportional  hazards  regression  model,  unless  the  proportional  hazards  assumption  was  violated  (in 
which  case  Gehan-  Wilcoxon  test  was  used)  for  survival  data;  descriptive  statistics  and  applicable 
ANCOVA for continuous data, generalized linear models with appropriate distribution and link function 
(e.g Fisher’s exact test or chi square’s test) for count data or categorical data. 
Missing values in the efficacy variables were replaced using the imputation method depending on the 
type  of  analysis  performed.  In  studies  3005012  and  3005013,  the  following  applied  for  co-primary 
efficacy missing values: If subject does not start study drug infusion, time on target is considered nil; 
If subject dies while on study drug, time of death is used as end of study drug infusion; If RASS target 
is  not  set  at  baseline,  mild  to  moderate  (RASS  0  to  -3)  is  assumed.  If  RASS  assessment  is  missing 
during the study drug infusion, value is not imputated but interpolated from preceding and consequent 
assessments. If gap between the two RASS assessments is more than 7 hours and more than 30% of 
anticipated  assessments  are  missing,  subject  will  be  excluded  from  PP  analysis  set;  if  time  of 
randomisation  is  missing,  then  the  time  of  decision  of  entry  will  be  used  instead ;  if  end  time  of 
mechanical  ventilation  is  missing  then  time  being  medically  fit  for  discharge  from  study  hospital  ICU 
will be used. 
3005011 
For  the  first  co-primary  efficacy  variable,  comparison  between  the  treatment  groups  was  done  using 
analysis of co-variance (ANCOVA) for the outcome variable. Non-inferiority of dexmedetomidine versus 
rescue  medication  (midazolam  or  propofol)  was  evaluated  using  1-sided  97.5%  confidence  intervals 
(CIs)  and  less  than  10%  (non-inferiority  criterion)  difference  between  the  treatment  groups.  For  the 
second  co-primary  efficacy  variable,  comparison  between  the  treatment  groups  was  done  using 
Kaplan-Meier method and Cox’s proportional-hazards regression model. The hazard ratio between 
treatment groups was estimated together with corresponding 95% CI. 
3005012 and 3005013 
For  the  first  co-primary  efficacy  variable,  comparison  between  the  treatment  groups  was  done  using 
analysis of co-variance (ANCOVA) for the outcome variable with effect for treatment and country in the 
model.  Non-inferiority  of  dexmedetomidine  versus  propofol  was  evaluated  using  1-sided  97.5% 
confidence  intervals  (CIs)  and  less  than  15%  (non-inferiority  criterion)  difference  between  the 
treatment  groups.  For  the  second  co-primary  efficacy  variable,  time  to  being  free  from  mechanical 
ventilation  was  compared  between  the  treatment  groups  by  Kaplan-Meier  curves  and  the  Cox ’ s 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 37/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
proportional-hazards  regression  model  with  effect  for  treatment  and  stratified  by  country.  As  the 
proportionality  assumption  was  violated,  the  Gehan-Wilcoxon  test  was  also  applied  according  to  the 
statistical analysis plan.  
2.5.2.2.2.  Results 
2.5.2.2.2.1.  Study 3005011 
Around sixty-six % (27/41) of subjects received dexmedetomidine longer than 24 hours. The longest 
exposure  to  dexmedetomidine  was  8  days  6  hours  (198  hours).  The  longest  exposure  to  midazolam 
bolus  was  3  days  11  hours  (83  hours),  to  midazolam  infusion  4  days  9  hours  (105  hours)  and  to 
propofol 10 days 16 hours (256 hours), respectively. 
Maintenance of target depth of sedation  
First co-primary efficacy results are presented in Table 5. 
Table 5 
There  was  a  statistically  significant  (p=0.057)  interaction  in  treatment  effect  with  regard  to  baseline 
target RASS score. In subjects requiring light to moderate sedation (target RASS score 0 to -3; n=63), 
the  proportion  of  time  at  target  sedation  level  without  rescue  medication  was  67.6%  in  the 
dexmedetomidine and 63.7% in the midazolam/propofol group. The lower limit of the 95% CI for the 
estimated ratio (0.87) approached the pre-defined non-inferiority margin, although still failed to reach 
the  pre-defined  margin.  In  subjects  requiring  deep  sedation  (target  RASS  score  -4;  n=16), 
dexmedetomidine was less effective than midazolam/propofol (30.7% vs. 63.0%, p = 0.006). 
Length of Stay in ICU  
Second co-primary efficacy results are presented in Table 6. 
Table 6 
There were significant differences in favour of dexmedetomidine with regard to the secondary outcome 
measures  of  nurse’s  assessment  of  subject  communication  and  the  number  of  ventilator-free  days  in 
ICU.  There  were  no  differences  between  treatment  groups  with  regard  to  any  of  the  other  secondary 
variables.  
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 38/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.2.2.2.2.  Studies 3005012 and 3005012 
Participant flow 
This is presented in Figures 7 and 8. 
Figure 7 – Study 3005012 
Figure 8 – Study 3005013 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 39/79
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, disposition of subjects and premature discontinuations of study treatments in both studies 
are presented in Table 7. 
Table 7 
Variable 
Randomised 
Discontinued study 
Completed study 
Reason for discontinuation of study 
     Lost to follow-up 
     Other reason 
     Withdrawal of consent 
Started study treatment 
Discontinued study treatment 
Completed study treatment 
Reason for discontinuation of study 
treatment 
     Lack of efficacy 
     AE/SAE 
     Other reason 
     Protocol violation 
     Non-pharmacological 
intervention 
Recruitment 
Dexmedetomidine 
N = 251 (ITT) 
N = 246 (Safety) 
Propofol 
N = 247 (ITT) 
N = 247 (Safety) 
Dexmedetomidine 
N = 249 (ITT) 
N = 247 (Safety) 
Midazolam 
N = 251 (ITT) 
N = 250 (Safety) 
Number (%) of subjects 
251 (100) 
12 (4.8) 
239 (95.2) 
7 (58.3) 
4 (33.3) 
1 (8.3) 
246 
66 (26.8) 
180 (73.2) 
36 (54.5) 
29 (43.9) 
7 (10.6) 
1 (1.5) 
1 (1.5) 
249 (100) 
13 (5.3) 
234 (94.7) 
9 (69.2) 
3 (23.1) 
1 (7.7) 
247 
58 (23.5) 
189 (76.5) 
13 (22.4) 
28 (48.3) 
16 (27.6) 
3 (5.2) 
4 (6.9) 
249 (100) 
2 (0.8) 
247 (99.2) 
251 (100) 
3 (1.2) 
248 (98.8) 
2 (100) 
3 (100) 
- 
- 
247 
- 
- 
250 
58 (23.5) 
189 (76.5) 
49 (19.6) 
201 (80.4) 
23 (39.7) 
23 (39.7) 
16 (27.6) 
2 (3.4) 
- 
10 (20.4) 
19 (38.8) 
21 (42.9) 
2 (4.1) 
- 
Study periods were: from 9 Jun 2007 to 3 March 2010 for study 3005012 and from 28 June 2007 to 7 
October 2009 for study 3005013. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 40/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conduct of the study 
In  both  studies,  changes  to  protocol  were  made  during  the  study  and  were  related  to  study  design, 
handling  of  data  and  conduct  of  exploratory  pharmacogenetic  analysis.  In  term  of  study  design, 
existing exclusion criteria were modified and primary efficacy evaluation was also changed to allow  the 
investigator  to  amend  the  subjects’s  target  RASS  from  0  to  -3  to  -4  or  -5,  if  required  for  clinical 
reasons. Two sensitivity analyses handling the target RASS other than 0 to -3 were also added. These 
changes were not considered to affect the conduct of the study. 
In boths studies, a number of major protocol deviations were identified in dexmedetomidine (3005012: 
49; 3005013: 34) and active comparator groups (propofol: 57; midazolam: 32) which excluded some 
patients from the PP population.  
Baseline data 
These are presented in Table 8. 
Table 8 
Dexmedeto-
midine 
(N = 251) 
Propofol 
(N = 247) 
Dexmedeto-
midine 
(N = 249) 
Midazolam 
(N = 251) 
Subject demographics (ITT) 
Male 
Female 
160 (63.7) 
91 (36.3) 
166 (67.2) 
81 (32.8) 
153 (61.4) 
96 (38.6) 
175 (69.7) 
76 (30.3) 
Mean ± SD 
61.8 ± 15.4 
61.7 ± 15.7 
63.0 ± 14.4 
63.0 ± 13.9 
Range 
18-45 
46-65 
66-75 
> 75 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
18 - 94 
38 (15.1) 
89 (35.5) 
72 (28.7) 
52 (20.7) 
20 - 88 
41 (16.6) 
90 (36.4) 
66 (26.7) 
50 (20.2) 
19 - 97 
31 (12.4) 
96 (38.6) 
70 (28.1) 
52 (20.9) 
19 - 88 
27 (10.8) 
100 (39.8) 
73 (29.1) 
51 (20.3) 
ICU admission characteristics (ITT) 
239 (95.2) 
240 (97.2) 
234 (94.0) 
244 (97.2) 
228 (90.8) 
227 (91.9) 
226 (90.8) 
231 (92.0) 
230 (91.6) 
231 (93.5) 
229 (92.0) 
233 (92.8) 
Gender, n (%) 
Age, years 
Age categories, years, n (%) 
Clinical need for sedation 
Subjects initially intubated (or 
tracheotomised) 
Subjects initially ventilated (with 
inspiratory assistance) 
SAPS II score 
Mean ± SD 
46.6 ± 14.6 
45.2 ± 15.2 
47.3 ± 16.6 
46.3 ± 16.5 
Time category from ICU 
admission to randomisation, n 
(%) 
Main reason for admission to ICU, 
n (%) 
0-6 h 
6-24 h 
>24 h 
Medical 
Surgical 
Trauma 
19 (7.6) 
87 (34.7) 
27 (10.9) 
78 (31.6) 
18 (7.2) 
94 (37.8) 
11 (4.4) 
84 (33.5) 
145 (57.8) 
142 (57.5) 
137 (55.0) 
156 (62.2) 
Reason for ICU admission (ITT) 
137 (54.6) 
143 (57.9) 
182 (73.1) 
171 (68.1) 
92 (36.7) 
22 (8.8) 
77 (31.2) 
27 (10.9) 
218 (88.3) 
29 (11.7) 
ICU admission type, n (%) 
Emergency 
228 (90.8) 
Planned 
23 (9.2) 
Categorised primary diagnoses for ICU admission (ITT) 
Infections and infestations 
Sepsis 
Respiratory failure 
Other respiratory 
Cardiac and vascular 
Renal failure 
Other 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
94 (37.5) 
60 (23.9) 
39 (15.5) 
68 (27.1) 
53 (21.1) 
28 (11.2) 
50 (19.9) 
96 (38.9) 
58 (23.5) 
49 (19.8) 
55 (22.3) 
57 (23.1) 
32 (13.0) 
46 (18.6) 
Numbers analysed 
These are presented in Table 9. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
55 (22.1) 
12 (4.8) 
237 (95.2) 
12 (4.8) 
97 (39.0) 
86 (34.5) 
85 (34.1) 
74 (29.7) 
53 (21.3) 
22 (8.8) 
26 (10.4) 
58 (23.1) 
22 (8.8) 
239 (95.2) 
12 (4.8) 
79 (31.5) 
77 (30.7) 
87 (34.7) 
80 (31.9) 
61 (24.3) 
33 (13.1) 
26 (10.4) 
Page 41/79
 
 
 
 
  
 
Table 9 
Data set 
ITT 
PP 
Dexmedetomidine 
(N = 251) 
Propofol 
(N = 249) 
Dexmedetomidine 
(N = 249) 
Midazolam 
(N = 251) 
Number (%) of subjects 
251 (100) 
218 (86.9) 
247 (99.2) 
213 (86.2) 
249 (100) 
217 (87.1) 
251 (100) 
227 (90.4) 
In  addition,  data  from  5  dexmedetomidine-treated  (resulting  in  223  PP  subjects)  and  1  propofol-
treated (resulting in 214 PP subjects)  were included to the 1st  co-primary endpoint analysis until the 
onset  of  non-compliance.  Data  from  the  10  dexmedetomidine-treated  (resulting  in  227  PP  subjects) 
and  6  midazolam-treated  (resulting  in  233  PP  subjects)  subjects  were  included  in  the  1st  co-primary 
endpoint  analysis  until  onset  of  non  compliance.  Percentages  are  based  on  numbers  of  subjects 
randomized 
Outcomes and estimation 
3005012  
First co-primary efficacy results are presented in Tables 10, 11 and 12. 
Table 10- PP set, Mean percentage of time at the target sedation level without use 
of rescue treatment  
Table 11  
Table  12  –  ITT  set,  Mean  percentage  of  time  at  the  target  sedation  level  without 
use of rescue treatment  
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 42/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Second co-primary efficacy results are presented in Table 13 and figure 9. 
Table 13 
Figure 9 
Other results (including secondary efficacy) are presented in Tables 14 and 15 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 43/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14 Secondary efficacy results 
Secondary variables (ITT) 
Nurse’s total VAS scores, mean 
Length of ICU stay, median (d) 
     Cox’s proportional-hazard model 
Table Other efficacy results 
Mean and 
median 
P-value  Difference 
95% CI 
or ratio 
DEX 
(N=251) 
PRO 
(N=247) 
51.3 
6.8 
40.1 
7.7 
Lower 
Upper 
<0.0012 
11.2 
6.4 
15.9 
0.535 
0.941 
0.778 
1.139 
Mean and 
median 
P-value  Difference 
95% CI 
or ratio 
Additional variables (ITT) 
Ventilator free days, median (d) 
Time to extubation from randomisation, median (h) 
     Gehan-Wilcoxon test* 
Cox’s proportional-hazard regression 
DEX 
(N=251) 
PRO 
(N=247) 
1.0 
69.0 
1.0 
93.0 
0.7563 
0.041 
0.109 
Lower 
Upper 
Time to extubation from end of infusion, median (h) 
4.0 
7.0 
     Cox’s proportional-hazard regression 
0.662 
0.960 
0.810 
1.152 
Length of hospital stay, median (d) 
33.0 
38.0 
     Gehan-Wilcoxon* 
0.750 
* As the assumption for the proportionality of hazards was not valid, the statistically more appropriate Gehan-Wilcoxon test, which 
gives more weight to events of interest at early time points, was applied. 
Around  seventy-  three  %  of  subjects  in  the  dexmedetomidine  group  and  64.4%  of  subjects  in  the 
propofol group used first-line rescue treatment (i.e. midazolam boli) for inadequate sedation during the 
study treatment period (Fisher’s exact text, p = 0.054). The total number of doses of rescue treatment 
used  was  2495  and  1986  doses  in  the  dexmedetomidine  and  propofol  groups,  respectively.  The 
distribution of the number of rescue treatment doses used per subject during the study treatment was 
statistically  significant  between  the  treatment  groups  (exponentiated  Poisson  estimate  1.67,  95%  CI 
1.64  to  1.69,  p  <  0.001),  indicating  that  first-line  rescue  treatment  was  given  more  frequently  for 
subjects in the dexmedetormidine group than in the propofol group. Duration of the infusion had to be 
at least 13 hours at a constant rate to reach steady-state concentration. 
Both the mean total amount of rescue treatment (repeated measure (RM)-ANOVA, p < 0.001) and the 
average dose of rescue treatment (RM-ANOVA, p < 0.001) were higher in the dexmedetomidine group 
than in the propofol group over time. 
Overall, 13.9% of subjects in the dexmedetomidine group 16.2% of subjects and in the propofol group 
used  a  second-line  rescue  treatment  for  inadequate  sedation  during  study  treatment  period,  with  no 
significant  (Fisher’s  exact  text,  p  =  0.532)  difference  between  the  treatment  groups.  The  most 
common  second-line  rescue  treatment  was  fentanyl,  which  was  used  218  times  in  32  subjects  in  the 
dexmedetomidine  group  and  107  times  in  34  subjects  in  the  propofol  group.  The  distribution  of  the 
number  of  second-line  rescue  doses  used  per  subject  during  the  study  treatment  was  statistically 
significant between the treatment groups (exponentiated Poisson estimate 4.19, 95% CI 3.77 to 4.65, 
p < 0.001), indicating that second-line rescue treatment was given more frequently for subjects in the 
dexmedetomidine group than in the propofol group. 
A  comparable  percentage  of  subjects  used  fentanyl  during  the  study  (78.5%  dexmedetomidine  vs. 
80.6% propofol, Fisher’s exact test, p = 0.580). Of all subjects (n = 498), the majority of subjects in 
both  treatment  groups  received  fentanyl  for  analgesia  (78.1%  dexmedetomidine  vs.  80.2%  propofol) 
and  15.5  and  15.4%  of  subjects  in  the  dexmedetomidine  and  propofol  groups,  respectively,  received 
fentanyl for sedation. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 44/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No statistically significant difference between the dexmedetomidine and propofol groups, respectively, 
was observed in the mean total amount of fentanyl (5.5 vs. 6.3 mg, p = 0.511) or the average dose of 
fentanyl (0.10 vs. 0.08 mg/h, p = 0.153). 
The  mean  cumulative  sum  of  TISS  points  was  28.6  points  lower  (354  vs.  382)  in  the 
dexmedetomidine-treated subjects than in the propofol-treated subjects from randomisation until day 
45. The ICU costs were 1141.2 euros lower in the dexmedetomidine group than in the propofol group. 
3005013  
First co-primary efficacy results are presented in Tables 16 and 17. 
Table 16- PP set, Mean percentage of time at the target sedation level without use 
of rescue treatment  
Table  17  –  ITT  set,  Mean  percentage  of  time  at  the  target  sedation  level  without 
use of rescue treatment  
Second co-primary efficacy results are presented in Table 18 and figure 10. 
Table 18 Duration of mechanical ventilation (ITT) 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 45/79
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10 
Other results (including secondary efficacy) are presented in Tables 19 and 20 
Table 19. Secondary efficacy results 
Secondary variables (ITT) 
Nurse’s total VAS scores, mean 
Length of ICU stay, median (d) 
     Cox’s proportional-hazard model 
Table 20 Other efficacy results 
Additional variables (ITT) 
Ventilator free days, median (d) 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Mean and 
median 
P-value  Difference 
95% CI 
or ratio 
DEX 
(N=249) 
MDZ 
(N=251) 
49.7 
8.8 
30.0 
10.1 
Lower 
Upper 
< 0.001 
19.7 
15.2 
24.2 
0.876 
1.016 
0.835 
1.235 
Mean and 
median 
P-value  Difference 
95% CI 
or ratio 
DEX 
(N=249) 
MDZ 
(N=251) 
1.0 
1.0 
0.924 
Lower 
Upper 
Page 46/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Time to extubation from randomisation, median (h) 
101.0 
147.0 
     Gehan-Wilcoxon test* 
0.012 
Time to extubation from end of infusion, median (h) 
35.0 
53.5 
     Cox’s proportional-hazard regression 
0.156 
0.875 
0.727 
1.053 
Length of hospital stay, median (d) 
42.0 
38.0 
     Cox’s proportional-hazard regression 
0.288 
1.119 
0.909 
1.378 
* As the assumption for the proportionality of hazards was not valid, the statistically more appropriate Gehan-Wilcoxon test, which 
gives more weight to events of interest at early time points, was applied. 
The percentage of subjects using first-line rescue treatment (i.e. propofol boli) for inadequate sedation 
during  the  study  treatment  period  was  similar  in  the  dexmedetomidine  and  midazolam  groups  (43.8 
vs. 45.4%; Fisher’s exact text, p = 0.720). The total number of doses of rescue treatment used was 
also  similar:  1100  doses  in  the  dexmedetomidine  vs.  1008  doses  in  the  midazolam  group.  The 
distribution of the number of rescue treatment doses used per subject during the study treatment was 
statistically  significant  different  between  the  treatment  groups  (exponentiated  Poisson  estimate  0.90, 
95%  CI  0.88  to  0.92,  p  <  0.001),  indicating  that  more  subjects  received  rescue  treatment  more 
frequently  in  the  midazolam  group  than  in  the  dexmedetomidine  group.  However,  the  numbers  of 
subjects receiving rescue treatment in the higher frequency categories (> 100 times and > 200 times) 
were small in both treatment groups, with no notable differences between the groups. Hypothetically, 
the 2 subjects in the midazolam group using > 200 rescue treatment doses compared with none in the 
dexmedetomidine group can have skewed the results.  
Similar  time  to  reach  steady  state  concentration  than  previous  study  3005012  was  observed  i.e 
duration  of  the  infusion  had  to  be  at  least  13  hours  at  a  constant  rate  to  reach  steady-state 
concentration. 
No  statistically  significant  differences  between  the  treatment  groups  were  observed  over  time  with 
regard the total amount (RM-ANOVA, p = 0.213) or the average daily dose (RM-ANOVA, p = 0.221) of 
the first-line rescue treatment. 
Overall, 5.6% of subjects in the dexmedetomidine group and 4.8% of subjects in the midazolam group 
used  a  second-line  rescue  treatment  for  inadequate  sedation  during  study  treatment,  with  no 
significant  (Fisher’s  exact  text,  p  =  0.692)  difference  between  the  treatment  groups.  The  most 
common  second-line  rescue  treatment  was  fentanyl,  which  was  used  23  times  in  6  subjects  in  the 
dexmedetomidine  group  and  31  times  in  9  subjects  in  the  midazolam  group.  The  distribution  of  the 
number of second-line rescue doses used per subject during the study treatment was similar between 
the treatment groups (exponentiated Poisson estimate 1.04, 95% CI 0.81 to 1.32, p = 0.779). 
A  comparable  percentage  of  subjects  used  fentanyl  (77.9%  dexmedetomidine  vs.  82.9%  midazolam, 
Fisher’s exact test, p = 0.177) (Table 14.2.3.9). Of all subjects (n = 500), the majority of subjects in 
both  treatment  groups  received  fentanyl  for  analgesia  (77.5%  dexmedetomidine  vs.  81.7% 
midazolam)  and  3.2  and  4.4%  of  subjects  in  the  dexmedetomidine  and  midazolam  groups, 
respectively, received fentanyl for sedation. 
No  statistically  significant  difference  between  the  dexmedetomidine  and  midazolam  groups, 
respectively, was observed in the mean total amount of fentanyl (10.6 vs. 15.8 mg, p = 0.590) or the 
mean average dose of fentanyl (0.3 vs. 0.6 mg/h, p = 0.570). 
The  mean  cumulative  sum  of  TISS  points  was  63.6  points  lower  (346  vs.  409)  in  the 
dexmedetomidine-treated  subjects  than  in  the  midazolam-treated  subjects  from  randomisation  until 
day 45. The ICU costs were 2541.5 euros lower in the dexmedetomidine-treated subjects than in the 
midazolam-treated subjects. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 47/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.2.3.  Ancillary analyses 
In  responses  to  CHMP  request,  the  applicant  provided  post-hoc  analyses  on  co-primary  endpoints, 
accounting  for  subjects  prematurely  withdrawn  for  the  non  inferiority  analysis,  and  using  time  to 
extubation  for  the  second  co-primary  analysis.  In  addition,  further  analysis  was  conducted  to  clarify 
the  increased  use  of  rescue  medication  in  the  dexmedetomidine  group  as  compared  to  propofol  in 
study 3005012. 
First co-primary analysis: non inferiority versus standard of care (SOC) 
Subjects prematurely withdrawn for any reason were additionally assumed after withdrawal to be out 
of  range  and  to  remain  out  of  range  until  extubation  (or  end  of  inspiratory  assist  if  tracheostomy 
inserted),  death  or  the  end  of  the  study  (45  days).  A  further  post  hoc  sensitivity  analysis  was 
performed where the extubation was assumed to be at insertion of tracheostomy (i.e. removal of the 
endotracheal  tube)  for  those  subjects  receiving  a  tracheostomy  (Onset),  rather  than  at  removal  of 
inspiratory assist. Results are presented in Table 21. 
Table 21 
Second co-primary analysis: duration of mechanical ventilation 
Post-hoc analysis of the mechanical ventilation was performed  censoring  at 14 days (longest infusion 
of investigational treatment) or death confirmed the benefits of dexmedetomidine. See Table 22. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 48/79
 
 
 
 
 
Table 22 
Increased use of rescue medication compared to propofol (study 3005012) 
When subjects who are withdrawn for lack of efficacy are removed from the analysis, the difference in 
use  of  rescue  medication  is  markedly  diminished.  The  number  of  subjects  requiring  rescue  sedation 
(midazolam) was 121 on dexmedetomidine and 122 on propofol for those subjects not withdrawn for 
lack of efficacy (Table 23). The frequency distribution appeared similar between the treatment groups 
(Table 24). The total amount of (mean) rescue used was 26.3 mg in the dexmedetomidine group and 
22.1 mg in the propofol group (Table 25). It appears that the excess use of rescue medication in the 
dexmedetomidine group is mainly associated with subjects who subsequently are withdrawn for lack of 
efficacy. 
Table 23 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 49/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tables 24, 25 
This  finding,  that  the  excess  use  of  rescue  medication  is  associated  with  the  subjects  prematurely 
withdrawn for lack of efficacy, is in line with the finding that the dexmedetomidine subjects withdrawn 
for  lack  of  efficacy  performed  less  effectively  in  the  sedation  analysis  prior  to  withdrawal.  In 
conclusion, a large majority of subjects who were successfully managed on  dexmedetomidine did not 
require more rescue sedation than did subjects receiving propofol. 
2.5.2.4.  Summary of main studies 
The  following  tables  summarise  the  efficacy  results  from  the  main  studies  supporting  the  present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 50/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 26. Summary of Efficacy for trial 3005012 
Title:  
A prospective, multi-centre, randomised, double-blind comparison of intravenous dexmedetomidine with propofol 
for continuous sedation of ventilated patients in intensive care unit 
Study identifier 
3005012 
Design 
Phase  III,  Multicenter,  Prospective,  Randomized,  Double-Blind,  Double-Dummy,  Active 
Comparator controlled  
Duration of main phase: 
24  hours  –  14  days  (depending  on  the  need  of 
sedation;  following  the  withdrawal  of  sedation,  the 
study  subjects  were  monitored  for  48  hours  and 
contacted  by  telephone  31  and  45  days  after 
randomization.) 
Not applicable 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Duration of Extension phase: 
Not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Non-inferiority 
Treatments groups 
Dexmedetomidine 
(+ placebo for Propofol) 
Propofol 
(+ placebo for 
Dexmedetomidine) 
Endpoints 
definitions 
and 
Co-primary 
endpoint 
Maintaining  a 
target  depth 
of sedation 
Co-primary 
endpoint 
of 
Duration 
mechanical 
ventilation  
that  of 
that  best  matched 
Dexmedetomidine  was  infused  at  the  numeric  dose 
level 
the  pre-
randomisation  dose  of  propofol  not  exceeding  the 
dose-level  3  (i.e.  0.7  μg/kg/h)  for  1  hour.  A  lower 
starting  dose  could  be  used  for  subjects  who  were 
considered particularly frail. After the first hour, the 
infusion  rate  of  dexmedetomidine  was  titrated 
stepwise  (±  1  dose  level)  as  needed  between  0.2 
and a maximum of 1.4 μg/kg/h in order to maintain 
the 
target  Richmond  Agitation-Sedation  score 
(RASS) range. Allowable dose levels were 0.2, 0.45, 
0.7,  0.95,  1.2,  1.4  μg/kg/  h.  The  study  treatments 
were administered and titrated in parallel.  
Number of randomized patients: 251 
Propofol was infused with the dose that was nearest 
to  the  pre-randomisation  dose  of  propofol  not 
exceeding the  dose level 3 (i.e. 1.6 mg/kg/h) for 1 
hour.  A  lower  starting  dose  could  be  used  for 
subjects  who  were  considered  particularly  frail. 
After the first hour, the infusion rate of propofol was 
titrated  stepwise  (±  1  dose  level)  as  needed 
between  0.3  and  a  maximum  of  4.0  mg/kg/h,  in 
order to maintain the target RASS range. Allowable 
dose  levels  were:  0.3,  0.8,  1.6,  2.4,  3.2,  4.0 
mg/kg/h. 
Number of randomised patients: 249 
Proportion  of  time  during  study  treatment  with  a 
RASS  within  the  initial  target  range  (0  to  -3) 
without 
rescue  medication.  Use  of 
midazolam  boli  was  considered  as  the  first-line 
rescue  medication  and  the  time  from  bolus  to  next 
RASS  assessment  was  considered  being  off  target 
despite the observed value.  
The comparison between the treatment groups was 
done  using  analysis  of  co-variance  (ANCOVA)  for 
the  outcome  variable  with  effect  for  treatment  and 
country 
of 
dexmedetomidine  versus  propofol  was  evaluated 
using  1-sided  97.5%  confidence  intervals  (CIs). 
Less  than  15%  (non-inferiority  criterion)  difference 
between  the  treatment  groups  was  considered 
acceptable from clinical and statistical standpoint. 
Time  from  randomisation  to  being  free  from  any 
mechanical  ventilatory  support  at  least  for  48 
hours. If a subject died while ventilated the duration 
was  assumed  to  last  until  45  days,  the  end  of  the 
study period.  
the  model.  Non-inferiority 
first-line 
in 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 51/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Database lock 
not available in the dossier 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description 
Primary Analysis of the co-primary endpoints 
Analysis population 
A  per-protocol  (PP)  population  was  used  to  evaluate  the  first  co-primary  objective, 
maintaining a target depth of sedation. 
Descriptive statistics and 
estimate variability 
The  intention-to-  treat  (ITT)  population  was  used  to  evaluate  the  second  co-primary 
endpoint, duration of mechanical ventilation. 
Treatment group 
Dexmedetomidine 
Propofol 
Number  of  subjects  - 
PP 
Maintaining  a  target 
sedation 
depth  of 
(PP) 
Adjusted Mean 
223 
214 
64.6% 
64.7% 
95% CI 
60.0%;69.1% 
59.9%; 69.4% 
Number  of  subjects  - 
ITT 
251 
247 
in 
of 
Duration 
mechanical 
ventilation 
(ITT) 
Median  
Maintaining  a  target 
depth of sedation 
hrs 
Effect 
comparison 
estimate 
per 
96.5  
Comparison groups 
117.5  
Dexdor vs Propofol 
Ratio DEX/Propofol 
1.00 
Duration 
mechanical 
ventilation 
95% CI 
of 
Comparison groups 
0.922*;1.075  (LL  of  the  95%CI 
> 0.85 non-inferiority margin) 
vs 
Dexdor 
Propofol 
Gehan-Wilcoxon test** 
P-value 
Cox´s  proportional-hazard 
regression 
P-value 
Cox´s  proportional-hazard 
regression 
Hazard ratio*** 
Cox´s  proportional-hazard 
regression 
95% CI for Hazard ratio 
0.24 
0.492 
0.936  
0.774; 1.131 
Notes 
*ANCOVA  with  effects  for  treatment  and  country;  lower  CI  of  the  ratio  >0.85  shows 
that DEX is non-inferior to Propofol 
**Gehan-Wilcoxon  test  was  applied  when  the  proportionality  assumption  for  the  Cox 
model was not met (p-value for the treatment by time 
interaction < 0.1).  
***Cox´s  proportional-hazards  regression  model  with  effects  for  treatment  and 
country; hazard ratio < 1 favours DEX 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 52/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 27.Summary of Efficacy for trial 3005013 
Title:  
A  prospective,  multi-centre,  randomised,  double-blind  comparison  of  intravenous  dexmedetomidine  with 
midazolam for continuous sedation of ventilated patients in intensive care unit 
Study identifier 
3005013 
Design 
Phase  III,  Multicenter,  Prospective,  Randomized,  Double-Blind,  Double-Dummy,  Active 
Comparator controlled  
Duration of main phase: 
24  hours  –  14  days  (depending  on  the  need  of 
sedation;  following  the  withdrawal  of  sedation,  the 
study  subjects  were  monitored  for  48  hours  and 
contacted  by  telephone  31  and  45  days  after 
randomization.) 
Not applicable 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Duration of Extension phase: 
Not applicable   
Hypothesis 
Non-inferiority 
Treatments groups 
Dexmedetomidine 
(+ placebo for Midazolam) 
Midazolam 
(+ placebo for 
Dexmedetomidine) 
Endpoints 
definitions 
and 
Co-primary 
endpoint 
Maintaining  a 
target  depth 
of sedation 
Co-primary 
endpoint 
of 
Duration 
mechanical 
ventilation  
Database lock 
not available in the dossier 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
that  of 
that  best  matched 
Dexmedetomidine  was  infused  at  the  numeric  dose 
level 
the  pre-
randomisation dose of midazolam not exceeding the 
dose-level  3  (i.e.  0.7  μg/kg/h)  for  1  hour.  A  lower 
starting  dose  could  be  used  for  subjects  who  were 
considered particularly frail. After the first hour, the 
infusion  rate  of  dexmedetomidine  was  titrated 
stepwise  (±  1  dose  level)  as  needed  between  0.2 
and a maximum of 1.4 μg/kg/h in order to maintain 
the  target  RASS  range.  Allowable  dose  levels  were 
0.2,  0.45,  0.7,  0.95,  1.2,  1.4  μg/kg/  h.  The  study 
treatments  were  administered  and  titrated 
in 
parallel.  
Number of randomized patients: 249 
Midazolam  was  infused  with  the  dose  that  was 
nearest  to  the  pre-randomisation  dose  of  propofol 
not  exceeding  the  dose  level  3  (i.e.  0.09  mg/kg/h) 
for  1  hour.  A  lower  starting  dose  could  be  used  for 
subjects  who  were  considered  particularly  frail. 
After  the  first  hour,  the  infusion  rate  of  midazolam 
was  titrated  stepwise  (±  1  dose  level)  as  needed 
between  0.03  and  a  maximum  of  0.2  mg/kg/h,  in 
order to maintain the target RASS range. Allowable 
dose  levels  were:  0.03,  0.06,  0.09,  0.12,  0.17  and 
0.2 mg/kg/h. 
Number of randomised patients: 251 
proportion  of  time  during  study  treatment  with  a 
RASS  score  within  the  initial  target  range  (0  to  -3) 
without first-line rescue medication. Use of propofol 
boli  was  considered  as 
first-line  rescue 
medication  and  the  time  from  bolus  to  next  RASS 
assessment was considered being off target despite 
the observed value.  
The comparison between the treatment groups was 
done  using  analysis  of  co-variance  (ANCOVA)  for 
the  outcome  variable  with  effect  for  treatment  and 
country 
of 
dexmedetomidine  versus  propofol  was  evaluated 
using  1-sided  97.5%  confidence  intervals  (CIs). 
Less  than  15%  (non-inferiority  criterion)  difference 
between  the  treatment  groups  was  considered 
acceptable from clinical and statistical standpoint. 
time  from  randomisation  to  being  free  from  any 
mechanical  ventilatory  support  at  least  for  48 
hours. If a subject died while ventilated the duration 
was  assumed  to  last  until  45  days,  the  end  of  the 
study period.  
the  model.  Non-inferiority 
the 
in 
Page 53/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description 
Primary Analysis of the co-primary endpoints 
Analysis population 
A  per-protocol  (PP)  population  was  used  to  evaluate  the  first  co-primary  objective, 
maintaining a target depth of sedation. 
Descriptive statistics and 
estimate variability 
The  intention-to-  treat  (ITT)  population  was  used  to  evaluate  the  second  co-primary 
endpoint, duration of mechanical ventilation. 
Treatment group 
Dexmedetomidine 
Midazolam 
Number  of  subjects  - 
PP 
Maintaining  a  target 
depth  of 
sedation 
(PP) 
Adjusted Mean 
227 
233 
60.7% 
56.6% 
95% CI 
55.4%;66.1% 
51.2%; 61.9% 
Number  of  subjects  - 
ITT 
249 
251 
in 
of 
Duration 
mechanical 
ventilation 
(ITT) 
Median  
Maintaining  a  target 
depth of sedation 
hrs 
Effect 
comparison 
estimate 
per 
123.0  
Comparison groups 
164.0 
Dexdor vs Midazolam 
Ratio DEX/Midazolam 
1.07 
Duration 
mechanical 
ventilation 
95% CI 
of 
Comparison groups 
0.971*;1.176  (LL  of  the  95%CI 
> 0.85 non-inferiority margin) 
vs 
Dexdor 
Midazolam 
Gehan-Wilcoxon test** 
P-value 
Cox´s  proportional-hazard 
regression 
P-value 
Cox´s  proportional-hazard 
regression 
Hazard ratio*** 
Cox´s  proportional-hazard 
regression 
95% CI for Hazard ratio 
0.033 
0.265  
0.896 
0.738; 1.087 
Notes 
*ANCOVA  with  effects  for  treatment  and  country;  lower  CI  of  the  ratio  >0.85  shows 
that DEX is non-inferior to Propofol 
**Gehan-Wilcoxon  test  was  applied  when  the  proportionality  assumption  for  the  Cox 
model was not met (p-value for the treatment by time 
interaction < 0.1).  
***Cox´s  proportional-hazards  regression  model  with  effects  for  treatment  and 
country; hazard ratio < 1 favours DEX 
2.5.2.5.  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Data  from  studies  3005011,  3005012  and  3005013  were  pooled  for  analyses  of  efficacy  endpoints, 
specifically  for  subgroup  analyses  by  gender,  age,  ICU  admission  reason,  simplified  acute  physiology 
score  II  (SAP  II),  pre  admission  length  of  stay,  and  to  investigate  the  effect  of  alcohol  or  chemical 
addiction, Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) CV score, SOFA renal score. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 54/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There was no treatment by age (>75 years) interaction for the sedation or outcome measures,. Median 
values  did  not  show  major  differences  in  therapeutic  effect  by  age,  with  the  exception  of  mechanical 
ventilation. The median time to extubation is lower for dexmedetomidine in the >75 year-old group but 
the  medians  are  similar  for  mechanical  ventilation;  this  observation  was  not  significant  for  treatment 
by interaction (p = 0.151). 
There  was  no  treatment  by  ICU  admission  reason  interaction  for  the  sedation  or  outcome  measures. 
Median  values  did  not  show  major  differences  in  therapeutic  effect  by  admission  reason,  with  the 
exception  of  trauma  patients,  who  did  not  show  a  benefit  in  mechanical  ventilation  or  ICU  length  of 
stay,  rather  a  reverse,  this  is  likely  to  be  artefact  as  the  trauma  group  is  small  compared  to  the 
medical  and  surgical  groups.  The  same  is  true  of  length  of  hospital  stay  for  which  the  interaction 
approached significance (p = 0.107). 
There was no treatment by SAPS II interaction for the sedation or outcome measures, except hospital 
stay (p = 0.066), for which the medians were unremarkable. The cut-off for SAPS II was the median 
value,  46.  Median  values  suggested  higher  SAPS  II  score  was  associated  with  higher  medians  for 
mechanical  ventilation,  length  of  stay  and  time  to  extubation  compared  to  lower  SAPS  II  scores  and 
the effect of dexmedetomidine may have been better where there is a high SAPS II score. 
There  was  no  treatment  by  pre-admission  length  of  stay  interaction  for  the  sedation  or  outcome 
measures,  except  for  length  of  hospital  stay  (p  =  0.086);  this  appears  due  to  reversal  of  effect 
between  the  admission  groups  and  is  highly  unlikely  to  be  a  real  effect.  Median  values  did  not  show 
major differences in therapeutic effect of dexmedetomidine by reason of pre-admission length of stay 
(except  for  aforementioned  length  of  hospital  stay).  The  cut-off  for  pre-admission  length  of  stay  was 
the median value, 30 hours. 
There was no treatment by alcohol or chemical addiction interaction for the outcome measures , except 
sedation corrected for additional (rescue) sedative and nurses VAS. Sedation (p = 0.037) and nurses 
VAS (p = 0.041) showed an interaction, dexmedetomidine and addiction result to lower response than 
dexmedetomidine  without  addiction  (suggestive  of  extra  use  of  rescue  sedation  in  the  alcohol  or 
chemically  addicted  group).  The  reduction  in  mechanical  ventilation  and  time  to  extubation  is,  if 
anything, more pronounced on dexmedetomidine in the group with alcohol or chemical addiction.  
There was no treatment by baseline SOFA CV score interaction for the sedation or outcome measures , 
except for mechanical ventilation (p = 0.067); median differences showed mechanical ventilation was 
shortened on dexmedetomidine compared to standard of care in both SOFA groups. Median values did 
not show major differences in therapeutic effect of dexmedetomidine by reason of baseline high SOFA 
CV score.  
There  was  no  treatment  by  baseline  SOFA  renal  score  interaction  for  the  sedation  or  outcome 
measures,  except  for  hospital  length  of  stay  (p  =  0.078),  which  was  unremarkable  in  the  medians. 
Median values does not show major differences in therapeutic effect of dexmedetomidine by reason of 
baseline  high  SOFA  renal  score,  if  anything  dexmedetomidine  had  a  more  pronounced  effect  for 
sedation, mechanical ventilation, time to extubation and ICU length of stay in subjects with high SOFA 
renal score at baseline. 
2.5.2.6. 
 Clinical studies in special populations 
See clinical pharmacology studies. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 55/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.2.7. 
 Supportive studies 
These consisted of 3 open label studies (1999-016, W99-314  and W99-302)  and a phase IV study 
(2001-001) that were designed as follows: 
-  1999-016: A phase II, randomised, multicentre, open-label, comparator study evaluating the 
safety  and  effectiveness  of  dexmedetomidine  compared  to  IV  midazolam  in  ICU  patients 
requiring greater than twenty four hours of continuous sedation. 
-  W99-314:    A  phase  IIIb,  multi-centre,  open-label,  randomised  study  comparing  the  safety 
and efficacy of dexmedetomidine to propofol based standard of care, for ICU sedation following 
coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery. 
-  W99-302:  A  phase  IIIb,  multicentre,  open-label,  randomised  study  comparing  the 
safety  and  efficacy  of  dexmedetomidine  to  Propofol  based  standard  of  care  for  ICU 
sedation following CABG surgery. 
-  2001-001:  a  phase  IV,  randomized,  double-blind,  multicentre,  comparator  study  evaluating 
the  safety  and  efficacy  of  dexmedetomidine  compared  to  iv  midazolam  in  ICU  subjects 
requiring greater than twenty-four hours of continuous sedation. 
Their results are summarised below. 
2.5.2.7.1. 
 Study 1999-016 
Fourteen  subjects  received  dexmedetomidine  and  13  received  midazolam.  There  were  10  premature 
discontinuations  on  dexmedetomidine  (5  AEs  including  2  subjects  with  hypotension,  3  protocol  errors 
including  the  subject  who  did  not  receive  drug  and  2  subjects  who  could  not  be  sedated  in  this  dose 
range) and one subject on midazolam who could not be sedated.  
There was no statistically significant difference in the primary efficacy variable, (percentage of time in 
a Ramsay range of 2-4); dexmedetomidine 71.7% (mean), 83.1% (median), midazolam 77.2% (mean) 
86.6%  (median).  Similar  results  were  noted  in  a  subgroup  analysis  of  subjects  receiving  >  24h 
sedation:  dexmedetomidine  84.6%  (mean),  87.8%  (median);  midazolam  77.2%  (mean)  86.6% 
(median). Bolus use of midazolam was similar between groups, hourly rate of morphine was similar, no 
evidence of reduced effect for dexmedetomidine over time and for the data available there was a trend 
to faster ICU discharge post extubation on dexmedetomidine (1 day) compared to midazolam (3 days). 
2.5.2.7.2. 
 Study W99-314  
Eighty three subjects entered the open-label randomised trial (32 in South Africa and 51 in Taiwan). In 
South  Africa 16  received  dexmedetomidine  and  16  received  propofol  standard  of  care  .  In  Taiwan  26 
received  dexmedetomidine  and  25  received  propofol  standard  of  care.  A  total  of  1  subject  in  the 
dexmedetomidine group and 1 subject in the propofol group were prematurely withdrawn. 
Mean  RSS  scores  were  similar  for  the  dexmedetomidine  (4.39)  and  propofol  (4.49)  standard  of  care 
groups  in  South  Africa,  p=0.730,  and  similar  for  the  dexmedetomidine  (3.65)  and  propofol  (3.68) 
standard of care groups in Taiwan, p = 0.855. 
Subjects requiring morphine in South Africa were dexmedetomidine 25.0%, propofol 68.8% (p=0.014) 
during  mechanical  ventilation.  Subjects  requiring  morphine  in  Taiwan  were  dexmedetomidine  23.1%, 
propofol 44.0% (p=0.051) during mechanical ventilation. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 56/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  amount  of  morphine  used  was  reduced;  0.0035  mg/kg/h  on  dexmedetomidine  and  0.0072 
mg/kg/h  on  propofol  standard  of  care  up  until  extubation  (p=0.090)  in  South  Africa.  The  amount  of 
morphine  used  was  reduced;  0.0025  mg/kg/h  on  dexmedetomidine  and  0.0046  mg/kg/h  on  propofol 
standard of care up until extubation (p=0.075) in Taiwan. 
In  South  Africa,  there  was  a  statistical  difference  in  time  to  weaning  and  time  to  extubation,  the 
dexmedetomidine  patients  were  ready  for  weaning  at  193  minutes  compared  to  315  minutes  for 
Propofol  (p=0.012)  the  dexmedetomidine  patients  were  extubated  at  316  minutes  compared  to  415 
minutes for propofol (p= 0.011). Time to weaning and extubation was similar in Taiwan. 
Mean total length of ICU stay was comparable as was patient satisfaction and nursing assessment. 
2.5.2.7.3. 
 Study W99-302  
Three hundred and eight subjects entered the open-label randomised trial; 153 randomised to and 148 
received dexmedetomidine and 155 randomised to and 147 received propofol standard of care. A total 
of  14  patients  in  the  dexmedetomidine  group  and  6  patients  in  the  propofol  group  were  prematurely 
withdrawn. 
Mean  RSS  scores  were  similar  for  the  dexmedetomidine  (4.5)  and  propofol  (4.7)  standard  of  care 
groups  p=0.259.  11%  of  the  dexmedetomidine  group  required  additional  propofol  to  maintain  the 
Ramsay  scores  while  mechanically  ventilated.  The  median  time  from  stopping  the  drug  to  extubation 
was  longer  on  propofol  (145  min)  compared  to  dexmedetomidine  (0  min)  due  to  the  requirement  to 
stop  propofol  prior  to  extubation  to  allow  recovery  of  the  patient’s  respiratory  function.  Subjects  not 
requiring  morphine  were  dexmedetomidine  72%,  propofol  37%  (p<0.001)  during  mechanical 
ventilation; dexmedetomidine 69%, propofol 24% (p<0.001) during the 6 hours after extubation and 
dexmedetomidine 50%, propofol 12% (p<0.001) from start of study drug to 6 hours after extubation. 
The  amount  of  morphine  used  was  reduced;  0.16  mg/h  on  dexmedetomidine  and  0.61  mg/h  on 
propofol standard of care up until extubation (p=0.0003). There was no statistical difference in time to 
weaning or time to extubation. Mean total length of ICU stay was comparable. 
2.5.2.7.4. 
 2001-001 
Participant flow is presented in Figure 11. 
Figure 11 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 57/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 224 (61%) subjects completed study drug infusion, and of these, 144 (59%) subjects in the 
dexmedetomidine group and 55 (45%) subjects in the midazolam group were extubated or were ready 
for  extubation,  and  10  (4%)  subjects  in  the  dexmedetomidine  group  and  15  (12%)  subjects  in  the 
midazolam group no longer required sedation. 
A slightly higher incidence of subjects in the midazolam group (52 [43%] subjects) than subjects in the 
dexmedetomidine group (90 [37%] subjects) prematurely discontinued study drug infusion; however, 
this  difference  between  the  treatment  groups  was  not  statistically  significant  (p=0.3070).  The  most 
common reasons for study drug discontinuation were the occurrence of AEs (dexmedetomidine group: 
36  [15%]  subjects,  midazolam  group: 14  [12%]  subjects),  lack of  efficacy  (dexmedetomidine  group: 
20  [8%]  subjects,  midazolam  group:  18  [15%]  subjects),  and  investigator’s  reason/decision 
(dexmedetomidine group: 10 [4%] subjects, midazolam group: 10 [8%] subjects). One subject in the 
midazolam  group  (109/16)  was  discontinued  because  of  oversedation.  This  subject  was  treated  with 
flumazenil and the blind on this subject was broken following discontinuation of study drug during the 
48 hour follow-up period. There was no serious adverse event reported for this discontinuation. 
Baseline data for the dexmedetomidine and midazolam groups of the ITT population were similar. The 
mean  ages  were  61.6  and  63.8  years  for  the  dexmedetomidine  and  midazolam  groups,  respectively. 
The  mean  weights  were  91.33  and  87.42  kg  for  the  dexmedetomidine  and  midazolam  groups, 
respectively. The majority of subjects were Caucasian men < 65 years of age with a Child-Pugh score 
of either A (5 to 6) or B (7 to 9). The mean Acute Physiology And Chronic Health Evaluation (APACHE 
II) scores were 19.4 and 18.3 for the dexmedetomidine and midazolam groups, respectively. The time 
from ICU admission to start of study drug was not different between treatment groups with 29% of the 
total subjects ≤ 24 hours and 24% of the total subjects > 72 hours. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 58/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  of  this  study  was  the  percentage  of  time  subjects  were  adequately 
sedated  within  the  target  RASS  range  of  -2  to  +1  during  the  double  blind  treatment  period  (DBT). 
Dexmedetomidine  and  midazolam  were  both  effective  at  adequately  sedating  subjects  requiring 
sedation for greater than 24 hours, maintaining subjects within the target RASS range for 80.8% and 
81.0% of the time on double-blind treatment (p=0.9493), respectively.  
There was also a similar profile in the percentage of subjects who had a RASS score greater than +1, 
less  than  -2,  or  were  adequately  sedated  during  DBT  without  study  drug  discontinuation  or 
interruption. Midazolam  was  significantly  better  at  maintaining subjects  within  the  target  RASS  range 
during  the  first  24  hours,  80.6%  in  the  midazolam group  and  74.1%  in  the  dexmedetomidine  group. 
However  with  continued  longer  sedation,  dexmedetomidine  was  numerically  greater  for  the  time 
between 48 and 264 hours, and significantly greater for 3 of those 9 time segments.  
Time to extubation was significantly longer for the midazolam group (median time: 138.4 hours) than 
the dexmedetomidine group (median time: 93.8 hours) (p=0.0162). Dexmedetomidine shortened the 
median time to extubation by 44 hours. 
Baseline delirium and confusion assessment method adapted for ICU (CAM-ICU) prior to randomization 
was  similar  between  treatment  groups;  54.4%  for  midazolam  and  56.2%  for  dexmedetomidine 
(p=0.8066). The comparison of the number and percentage of subjects who had delirium at the daily 
assessment  showed  that  a  higher  percentage  of  midazolam-treated  subjects  (75.7%)  than 
dexmedetomidine-treated subject (54.6%) had delirium at the daily assessment at any time during the 
DBT  (p=0.0004).  For  subjects  with  delirium  at  baseline,  69.7%  of  dexmedetomidine  subjects  and 
94.6%  of  midazolam  subjects  had  delirium  during  the  double  blind  treatment  (DBT)  period 
(p=0.0001). For subjects without delirium at baseline, 33.3% of dexmedetomidine subjects and 55.3% 
of midazolam subjects had delirium during the DBT (p=0.0397). There was a consistently greater than 
20% treatment effect between dexmedetomidine and midazolam in the incidence of delirium.  
Midazolam-treated  subjects  experienced  more  delirium  days  than  dexmedetomidine-treated  subjects 
overall (mean days: 3.3 and 1.9 days, respectively; p<0.0001), during the DBT (mean days: 2.7 and 
1.4  days,  respectively;  p<0.0001),  and  in  the  follow-up  period  (mean  days:  0.7  and  0.5  days, 
respectively; p=0.0401). Dexmedetomidine-treated subjects experienced more delirium-free days than 
midazolam-treated subjects overall (mean days: 4.3 and 3.2 days, respectively; p=0.0050), during the 
DBT (mean days: 2.8 and 1.9 days, respectively; p=0.0018), and in the follow-up period (1.8 and 1.5 
days, respectively; p=0.1269). Dexmedetomidine-treated subjects reached a delirium-free day sooner 
(3.1  days)  than  midazolam-treated  subjects  (7.8  days)  during  the  DBT  and  48  hour  follow-up 
(p<0.0001).Therefore, at equivalent levels of sedation (RASS -2 to +1) dexmedetomidine causes less 
delirium  than  midazolam  as  well  as  reduces  the  incidence  of  pre-existing  delirium  in  mechanically 
ventilated subjects in the ICU.  
The incidence of fentanyl use and the doses of fentanyl used for any reason and for pain relief were not 
significantly different between the treatment groups during DBT (p>0.2778).  
Midazolam rescue sedation was significantly higher in the dexmedetomidine group compared with the 
midazolam group. A higher percentage of dexmedetomidine-treated subjects (65.5%) than midazolam 
treated subjects (53.4%) received open-label midazolam for rescue sedation during DBT (p=0.0460); 
and a higher mean dosage of midazolam (0.203 mg/kg) was administered to dexmedetomidine-treated 
subjects than midazolam treated subjects (0.138 mg/kg) during DBT (p=0.0503). 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 59/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  overall  total  nursing  assessment  score  was  significantly  higher  for  the  dexmedetomidine  group 
(mean score: 22.0) than for the midazolam group (mean score 19.9; p=0.0145), representing a more 
favourable  overall  score 
for  dexmedetomidine  compared  with  midazolam.  Mean  separate 
communication and cooperation scores were significantly different between the treatment groups (p = 
0.0064 and p = 0.0191, respectively); however, the mean overall tolerance of ventilator score was not 
significantly  different  between  the  treatment  groups  (p  =  0.2391).  These  data  indicate  that  nurses 
caring for critically-ill patients on ventilators were more satisfied with dexmedetomidine sedation than 
midazolam. 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Early Studies 
In  early  studies  comparing  dexmedetomidine  with  placebo  and  using  the  RSS  score  to  measure 
sedation level, the population studied was post-surgery patients and composed mostly of post-cardiac 
surgery  patients.  The  study  drug  administration  was  limited  to  24-30  hours.  The  treatment  was 
preventive in intubated patients. Dexmedetomidine, in comparison to placebo, demonstrated a sparing 
effect  of  sedative  drugs  used  i.e  midazolam  or  propofol.  The  mean  dose  of  midazolam  during 
intubation was 4.8 mg for dexmedetomidine and 18.6 mg for placebo (p=0.0011). The mean dose of 
propofol during intubation was 72 mg for dexmedetomidine and 513 for placebo (p<0.0001). The RSS 
score  was  statistically  higher  in  the  dexmedetomidine  groups.  The  dexmedetomidine  treated  patients 
required on average less than half of the amount of morphine given to the placebo-controlled patients. 
The mean total dose of morphine by ITT analysis was 0.9 and 0.4 mg/h for the placebo (n=373) and 
dexmedetomidine  (n=381)  groups  respectively  (p<0.001).  Results  were  consistent  in  all  phase  III 
placebo controlled studies. 
In  a  phase  II  study  (W98-274)  using  the  BIS  score  to  measure  the  sedation  level,  the  population 
studied  was  differently  composed  with  less  post-surgery  patients  to  cardiac  surgery  (53%).  Other 
surgery relates to cancer (>20% in each group), head and aneurysm requiring prosthesis (13%). The 
maximum  duration  of  infusion  was  72  hours.  During  intubation  the  dexmedetomidine  group  required 
0.87 mg/kg/h of propofol compared to the placebo group which required 1.52 mg/kg/h of propofol (p 
= 0.0058). During weaning the dexmedetomidine group required 0.17 mg/kg/h of propofol compared 
to  the  placebo  group  which  required  0.62  mg/kg/h  of  propofol  (p  =  0.0003).  Mean  BIS  scores  were 
comparable  during  intubation  (dexmedetomidine:  63,  placebo:  66.6),  weaning  (dexmedetomidine  : 
67.8, placebo: 71.7) and extubation (dexmedetomidine: 89.0, placebo: 88.0), where the lower number 
indicates deeper sedation. During intubation the total dose of morphine required was not significantly 
lower 
for  dexmedetomidine  patients  than 
for  placebo  patients  during  drug  administration 
(dexmedetomidine 0.48 mg/h of morphine, placebo 0.76 mg of morphine, p=0.1741). 
The above results provided positive findings regarding the efficacy of dexmedetomidine as a sedative 
agent. However, the CHMP considered that in these trials, the population studied, the duration of the 
treatment and the study design (lack of active comparator, scales used to measure sedation) did not 
allow to draw a definite conclusion concerning the use of dexmedetomidine in the current ICU setting.  
In  a  subsequent  phase  III  study  (3005011)  using  midazolam  and  propofol  as  active  comparators 
(considered as standard of care) and RASS as scale to measure sedation level, dexmedetomidine was 
not  proven  to  be  clinically  non-inferior  to  midazolam/propofol.  The  lower  limit  of  the  95%  CI  for  the 
estimated between-group ratio (0.79) was not within the pre-defined non-inferiority margin (> 0.90). 
Dexmedetomidine was less effective where a greater level of sedation (RASS -4) was required whereas 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 60/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
no difference between midazolam and propofol was found in this regard.  Furthermore, no statistically 
significant  differences  between  the  treatment  groups  were  observed  in  the  length  of  stay  in  the  ICU 
from randomisation. However, the CHMP noted that this study was early terminated and included only 
a total 85 patients and therefore was not conclusive on the efficacy of dexmedetomidine. 
Pivotal Studies 
With respect to the 2 additional phase III studies using both active comparators (midazolam for study 
3005013  and  propofol  for  study  3005012)  and  conducted  line  with  the  CHMP  advice  received  in 
October 2000, efficacy results did not appear consistent: 
Study 3005012 (with propofol) 
In  study  3005012,  treatment  groups  were  balanced  with  respect  to  gender,  age,  weight  and  ethnic 
origin. In the ITT population (n=498), 326 (65.5%) were male. The mean age of the subjects was 61.7 
years,  ranging  between  18  and  94  years.  The  majority  of  subjects  (98.6%)  were  Caucasian,  0.6% 
were Black, 0.4% were Asian and 0.4% were of other origin. The treatment groups were balanced with 
respect  to  clinical  need  of  sedation,  SAPS  II  and  median  time  from  ICU  admission  to  randomisation: 
The treatment groups were also balanced with respect to main reason for admission to ICU (medical, 
surgical  or  trauma)  and  type  of  ICU  admission  (emergency  or  planned):  No  statistically  significant 
differences  between  the  treatment  groups  were  observed  in  the  categorised  primary  diagnoses  for 
admission to ICU.  
The  mean  percentage  of  time  at  target  sedation without  use  of  rescue  treatment  were  64.6%  versus 
64.7% for dexmedetomidine  and propofol groups, respectively, confirming non inferiority for the first 
co-primary endpoint. Both PP and ITT population showed consistent results, however; ITT results were 
less  convincing  than  the  PP  (ratio:  0.97  versus  1.00),  although  the  confidence  interval  (CI)  was  still 
above  the  non-inferiority  margin  of  0.85.  For  the  second  co-primary  endpoint,  the  duration  of 
mechanical ventilation did not differ statistically significantly between treatment groups using different 
tests  (Gehan  Wilcoxon  :  p=0.240;    Cox  HR:0.49,  0.77-1.13).  From  a  statistical  perspective,  the 
hierarchical approach used for the co-primary endpoints can be considered sufficient to make the study 
positive. 
However,  the  chosen  non  inferiority  margin  of  15%,  higher  than  the  previous  early  terminated  pilot 
study (3005011) set up as 10% of difference was questioned by the CHMP. The CHMP also noted that 
patients  were  excluded  if  they  were  likely  to  require  deep  sedation  i.e.  a  RASS  >  -3,  suggesting  a 
possible  enrichment  of  the  population,  given  the  findings  of  study  3005011.  Furthermore,  the  CHMP 
was concerned that patients randomised to dexmedetomidine spent on average a substantially shorter 
time  at  target  (33.51  versus  47.12  ,  ie  14  hours  less)  suggesting  that  patients  on  dexmedetomidine 
were  discontinuing  study treatment  earlier  than  those  on  propofol  for  related  treatment  reasons.  The 
number of discontinuations because of lack of efficacy further supported this finding. Therefore a post 
hoc analysis excluding the total duration of infusion to avoid masking the difference in % time at target 
, e.g using the total time for sedation instead was recommended. In this study, the use of rescue drugs 
was  also  significantly  higher  compared  to  propofol  (e.g  72.5%  versus  64.4%  for  first  line  rescue 
medication).  
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 61/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 3005013 (with midazolam) 
In study 3005013, the treatment groups were balanced with respect to gender, age, weight and ethnic 
origin. In the ITT population (n=500), 328 (65.6%) were male. The mean age of the subjects was 63 
years,  ranging  between  19  and  97  years.  The  majority  of  subjects  (96.2%)  were  Caucasian,  1.4% 
were  Hispanic,  1.0%  were  Black,  0.4%  were  Asian  and  1.0%  were  of  other  origin.The  treatment 
groups were balanced with respect to the clinical need of sedation, SAPS II and median time from ICU 
admission  to  randomisation.  The  treatment  groups  were  balanced  with  respect  to  main  reason  for 
admission  to  ICU  (medical,  surgical  or  trauma)  and  type  of  ICU  admission  (emergency  or  planned). 
The  majority  of  subjects  (70.6%)  were  admitted  to  ICU  due  to  medical  reasons  and  most  subjects 
(95.2%) needed emergency care. No statistically significant differences between the treatment groups 
were observed in the categorised primary diagnoses for admission to ICU. 
The mean percentage of time at the target sedation level without use of rescue treatment was 60.7% 
and 56.6% for dexmedetomidine and midazolam groups, respectively confirming non inferiority for the 
first  co-primary  endpoint.  As  the  lower  limit  of  the  95%  CI  for  the  estimated  ratio  between  the 
treatment groups (0.97) was above the predefined non-inferiority margin (> 0.85), dexmedetomidine 
was proven clinically non-inferior to midazolam. Both PP and ITT population showed consistent results 
with  a  better  trend  in  the  PP  population  (ratio:  1.09  versus  1.07)  supporting  the  primary  analysis. 
Although duration of infusion was shorter as observed in the previous study 3005012, longer time at 
target  was  observed  for  dexmedetomidine  group  as  compared  with  midazolam  group  (37.75  versus 
37.07) supporting non inferiority results. However, the number of discontinuations because of lack of 
efficacy required further analyses prior any final conclusions are made. 
The median duration of mechanical ventilation (i.e., time to being free from mechanical ventilation that 
was  not  re-instituted  within  48  hours)  was  41  hours  shorter  in  the  dexmedetomidine  group  (123 
hours)  than  in  the  midazolam  group  (164  hours)  in  the  ITT  population.  The  pre-specified  primary 
analysis  was  Cox’s  proportional  hazards  did  not  show  statistical  significance  (Cox  HR:  0.896,  0.738-
1.087) while the Gehan-Wilcoxon test (which gives more weight to early events) did achieve statistical 
significance (p=0.033), suggesting a positive trend for the second co-primary endpoint. 
Supportive studies 
Results  from  open  label  and  phase  IV  studies  were  supportive  of  the  efficacy  of  dexmedetomidine  in 
the clinical intended use.  However, it should be noted that the  level of sedation used as endpoint for 
the Phase IV study was only at 2.   
Overall discussion 
Overall,  the  CHMP  requested  further  analyses  to  support  the  robustness  of  the  results  for  the  non 
inferiority  (given  potential  lack  of  efficacy)  and  efficacy  on  mechanical  ventilation  versus  standard  of 
care.  The  clinical  relevance  of  a  few hours  shorter  ventilation compared  to  midazolam should  also  be 
further  discussed  prior  any  final  conclusions  are  made.  For  both  studies,  additional  data  on  patient 
disposition  regarding  the  presence  or  absence  of  an  analgesic  epidural  (in  the  post-surgical  patients) 
and  that  of  a  tracheostomy  were  also  requested.  The  CHMP  noted  that  none  of  the  pivotal  studies 
investigated the use of dexmedetomidine as an ‘induction agent’ for the initiation of sedation. All of the 
patients studied were already sedated and ventilated at the time of randomisation. Furthermore, as a 
sedative  rather  than  an  anaesthetic  agent,  dexmedetomidine  is  unlikely  to  be  suitable  for  intubation 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 62/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  this  scenario  was  not  studied  either.  The  CHMP  therefore  recommended  the  applicant  to  re 
consider the indication initially applied for, based on the robustness of the efficacy data. Furthermore, 
the CHMP noted that the use of a loading dose was not studied in phase III studies and recommended 
to remove it from the proposed dosing recommendation. 
In  responses  to  CHMP  request,  the  applicant  provided  post-hoc  analyses  on  co-primary  endpoints, 
accounting  for  subjects  prematurely  withdrawn  for  the  non  inferiority  analysis,  and  using  time  to 
extubation for the second co-primary analysis (see ancillary analyses 2.5.2.3).  
On the basis of these analyses, the applicant made the following conclusions:  
-  The  lower  confidence  intervals  of  the  dexmedetomidine:  ratios  for  standard  treatment 
(propofol  and  midazolam)  are  >  0.85  in  each  analysis,  thus  establishing  non-inferiority.  The 
ratios  of  dexmedetomidine  /  propofol  or  midazolam  range  from  0.96  to  1.12  indicating  close 
similarity.  
-  Considering  tracheostomy  patients  to  be  extubated  at  insertion  of  the  tracheostomy  rather 
than  at  removal  of  inspiratory  assist  made  very  small  differences  in  either  direction  in  these 
analyses. 
- 
The pooled data showed dexmedetomidine to be significantly better than standard sedation in 
reducing  the  duration  of  mechanical  ventilation  by  both  Cox’s  test  (p=0.028)  and  Gehan 
Wilcoxon  test  (p=0.006).  The  combined  reduction  in  mechanical  ventilation  time  is  0.8  days 
(dexmedetomidine  83h;  standard  of  care  102h).  Dexmedetomidine  was  significantly  better  in 
the combined analysis than standard sedation in reducing the time to extubation by both Cox’s 
test  (p=0.002)  and  Gehan  Wilcoxon  test  (p<0.001).  The  combined  reduction  in  time  to 
extubation  is  0.96  days  (dexmedetomidine  68h;  standard  of  care  91h).  Individually,  studies 
3005012  and  3005013  showed  significant  reductions  in  time  to  extubation  by  Cox’s  test 
(p=0.023  and  p=0.029  respectively)  and  by  Gehan  Wilcoxon  test  (p=0.032  and  p=0.002 
respectively).  Study  3005013  showed  that  dexmedetomidine  reduced  the  duration  of 
mechanical  ventilation  compared  midazolam  by  Gehan  Wilcoxon  test  (p=0.007)  and 
approached significance by Cox’s test (p=0.051). 
Although, in the design of the phase III studies, there is an inherent methodological bias unfavouring 
dexmedetomidine in that patients who are already established on a sedative at an efficacious dose are 
likely to enter a period of “instability” when being switched to an alternative sedative, the CHMP noted 
that the majority of the patients who were successfully managed on dexmedetomidine did not require 
more rescue sedation than subjects receiving propofol, achieving a stable sedation. 
The CHMP noted that the applicant proposed to revise the indication as follows: 
“Dexdor  is  indicated  for  the  light  to  moderate  sedation  of  adult  ICU  patients.  Light  to  moderate 
sedation means a sedation level not deeper than arousal in response to verbal stimulation (RASS 0 to -
3).” 
In  addition,  the  applicant  proposed  to  clearly  inform  the  prescribers  via  the  SmPC  about  the  risk  of 
insufficient  sedation  that  was  increased  in  patients  who  were  difficult  to  sedate  with  standard  care 
immediately prior to switching. In line with the CHMP recommendation, the applicant also amended the 
SmPC information to reflect that the use of a loading dose is not recommended as it can be associated 
with increased adverse reactions. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 63/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Having considered above, the CHMP was of the opinion that the applicant provided sufficient evidence 
to conclude on the efficacy of dexmedetomidine as a sedative agent and that appropriate information 
has been included in the SmPC to ensure effective use of dexmedetomidine in the intended clinical use. 
On this basis, the CHMP recommended the following indication: 
“For  sedation  of  adult  ICU  (Intensive  Care  Unit)  patients  requiring  a  sedation  level  not  deeper  than 
arousal in response to verbal stimulation (corresponding to Richmond Agitation-Sedation Scale (RASS) 
0 to -3).” 
The applicant agreed with the above recommended CHMP indication. 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The  CHMP  concluded  that  the  efficacy  in  maintaining  sedation  level  not  deeper  than  arousal  in 
response to verbal stimulation (corresponding to Richmond Agitation-Sedation Scale (RASS) 0 to -3)” 
was  demonstrated 
in  adult 
ICU  patients 
in 
the  proposed  dosing 
regimen 
for  Dexdor 
(dexmedetomidine). 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
The safety database contains 106 clinical studies conducted in over 30 countries in Europe, North and 
South America, the Middle East, Africa, and the Far East. Studies conducted in Australia, New Zealand 
and  Japan  are  also  included.    This  comprised  of  18  intensive  care  unit  (ICU)  studies,  45  non-ICU 
studies  and  43  phase  I  studies  that  include  19  pharmacokinetic  (PK)  studies,  15  pharmacodynamic 
(PD)  studies  and  9  other  studies  conducted  in  healthy  volunteers.  Over  7500  subjects  who  received 
any  injectable  study  drug,  dexmedetomidine,  placebo,  or  comparator  (midazolam  or  propofol)  are 
evaluated, in addition to those in studies where data was not pooled for safety analysis. In total: 2103, 
2230 and 432 subjects in pooled data received dexmedetomidine at various doses and durations in the 
ICU, non-ICU and in the volunteer studies, respectively. In addition, there are over 1 million exposures 
to Dexmedetomidine, based on sales, mainly in the US since 1999.  
2.6.1.  Patient exposure 
Data are presented in Tables 28, 29 and 30. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 64/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 28 
In the comparator-controlled double-blind ICU studies a dose up to 1.4 μg/kg/h was permitted for up 
to 14 days in Studies 3005011, 3005012 and 3005013 or 30 days in Study 2001-001. Most other ICU 
studies were conducted with a maximum dose level of 0.7 μg/kg/h for not more than 24 hours. Dosing 
schedules  in  the  non-  ICU  studies  were  varied,  some  subjects  receiving  a  single  bolus  of 
dexmedetomidine and others receiving a continuous infusion, sometimes over many hours. Infusions in 
the non-ICU studies were commonly based on target plasma concentrations (mostly between 0.2 – 0.6 
ng/ml) so actual doses were variable. However for comparison mean dexmedetomidine concentration 
on day 2 of treatment in study 3005012 was 1.9 ng/ml. 
Table 29 
Most subjects received dexmedetomidine for < 24 hours, including a significant proportion of subjects 
in  the  comparator-controlled  double-blind  ICU  studies.  112  subjects  received  dexmedetomidine  for 
longer  than  5  days  and  only  22  subjects  for  longer  than  10  days.  Very  few  subjects  required 
continuous sedation for longer than the 14 days permitted in the 3005012 and 3005013 studies and in 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 65/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 2001-001 the longest exposure to dexmedetomidine was 15.6 days. In non-ICU studies almost 
all continuous infusions were shorter than 24 hours. 
Table 30 
2.6.2.  Adverse events  
Tables 31 and 32 detail the number of subjects in all of the ICU studies (both placebo and comparator 
controlled) who experienced an adverse event and those AE with an incidence of >2% and statistically 
significantly greater than the comparator: 
Table 31 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 66/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 32 
2.6.3.  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
The overall mortality rate in the ICU studies was similar for dexmedetomidine and propofol but higher 
in the midazolam treatment group. See Table 33. 
Table 33 
A  total  of  1880    serious  adverse  events  (SAEs)  were  reported  in  a  total  of  890  subjects  in  the  ICU 
sedation population, of which 1107 SAEs were in 515 dexmedetomidine treated, 357 SAEs were in 176 
midazolam  treated,  320  SAEs  were  in  151  propofol  treated  and  96  SAEs  in  48  placebo  treated 
subjects.  The  majority  of  SAEs  (1403/1880  SAEs  in  642/890  subjects)  were  reported  in  the 
comparator controlled, double-blind ICU studies, consistent with a population that was more severily ill 
than those in the non-ICU and PK/PD populations, as reflected in the mortality rates and baseline SAPS 
of this patient population. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 67/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  most  commonly  reported  treatment  emergent  SAEs  in  the  integrated  ICU  population  with 
dexmedetomidine  were  hypotension,  respiratory  failure,  bradycardia,  multi-organ  failure,  acute 
respiratory  distress  syndrome,  septic  shock  and  sepsis.  The  majority  of  SAEs  occurred  in  <  1%  of 
dexmedetomidine treated subjects and involved relatively few subjects. See Table 34. 
Table 34 
In the comparator controlled studies, SAEs were seen to have comparable incidence across treatment 
groups. See Table 35. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 68/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 35 
2.6.4.  Laboratory findings 
Laboratory abnormalities are very common in ICU patients. There were no large or notable differences 
between the study treatments in the comparator-controlled double-blind ICU studies.  
2.6.5.  Safety in special populations 
Intrinsic Factors 
There  was  a  slight  tendency  for  female  subjects  to  have  more  bradycardia,  hypotension  and 
hyperglycaemia  on  dexmedetomidine  compared  to  males,  despite  that  clearance  of  dexmedetomidine 
was  comparable  to  males  when  corrected  for  weight.  The  number  of  black  subjects  was  low  and  so 
results may be significantly affected by case-mix but these subjects seemed to have a higher incidence 
of  bradycardia  and  hyperglycaemia  on  dexmedetomidine.  Subjects  with  cardiovascular  disease, 
diabetes  and  neurological  disorders  appeared  to  be  at  higher  risk  for  cardiovascular  adverse  events 
during sedation with dexmedetomidine but this difference was  common to other sedatives (especially 
midazolam)  and  did  not  identify  any  group  with  higher  susceptibility  to  dexmedetomidine  effects. 
Severity  of  illness  judged  by  SAPS  II  score  did  not  predict  any  increase  in  adverse  events  on 
dexmedetomidine. 
No  studies  on  the  use  of dexmedetomidine in  pregnancy  or lactation  have  been  performed  and  there 
are no exposures to pregnant or lactating women in the available studies. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 69/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Extrinsic Factors 
The  ICU  studies  were  primarily  conducted  in  Northern  Europe  or  the  USA.  In  those  territories  ICU 
practices  are  relatively  consistent  and  that  is  expected  to  be  the  case  also  in  general  in  Southern 
Europe. There may be less frequent use of sedation stops in Southern European states and this could 
be expected to lead to more over-sedation and less agitation with standard of care but it is not known 
whether such differences would also exist during dexmedetomidine treatment. The pattern of adverse 
effects during clinical studies of dexmedetomidine in Japan does not appear substantially different from 
the European experience. 
The standardised environment in the ICU somewhat reduces the possible impact of social factors such 
as culture and education. The major ICU studies did not collect data on these issues or on factors such 
as  diet,  alcohol  use,  smoking  or  drug  abuse  and  therefore  these  cannot  be  tested  adequately  on  the 
available  database.  However  such  substances  are  not  continued  in  an  ICU  environment  (except 
occasionally  administration  of  nicotine  to  prevent  withdrawal)  and  subjects  in  the  submitted  studies 
were not generally included until a point when high drug or alcohol levels at hospital admission could 
be expected to have diminished considerably. 
2.6.6.  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
See clinical pharmacology studies. 
2.6.7.  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Data are presented in Table 36. 
Table 36. Significant AEs leading to drug discontinuation in the comparator-controlled 
double-blind ICU studies 
Bradycardia 
Agitation 
Hypotension 
Drug ineffective 
Drug effect decreased 
Sedation 
All DEX 
N = 778 
MDZ 
N = 388 
Subjects n (%)/Events n 
18 ( 2.3) 18 
17 ( 2.2) 17 
12 ( 1.5) 13 
11 ( 1.4) 11 
4 ( 0.5) 4 
1 ( 0.1) 1 
1 ( 0.3) 1 
7 ( 1.8) 7 
1 ( 0.3) 1 
0 
0 
6 ( 1.5) 6 
PRO 
N = 275 
1 ( 0.4) 1 
2 ( 0.7) 2 
3 ( 1.1) 3 
0 
1 ( 0.4) 1 
0 
2.6.8.  Post marketing experience 
On  the  basis  of  more  than  1.5  million  patient  treatment  days  with  dexmedetomidine  worldwide,  the 
number  of  individual  case  reports  received  in  this  period  is  978,  and  they  included  altogether  1497 
adverse reactions, 731 of which were serious and 766 of which were non-serious. The most commonly 
reported  events  were  hypotension  included  in  358  reports  (MedDRA  PTs  hypotension,  blood  pressure 
decreased,  and  blood  pressure  systolic  decreased  combined)  and  bradycardia included  in  221  reports 
(PTs  bradycardia,  sinus  bradycardia  and  heart  rate  decreased  combined).  Hypertension  is  included  in 
65  reports  (PTs  hypertension,  blood  pressure  increased,  and  blood  pressure  systolic  increased 
combined) and aspartate aminotransferase increased in 58, alanine aminotransferase increased in 34, 
blood bilirubin increased in 33 and hepatic function abnormal in 29 reports. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 70/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions arising from the spontaneous reports are in line with 
the  clinical  study  AE  data  and  no  new  safety  signals  have  been  identified  from  these  post-marketing 
data. 
2.6.9.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Patients  treated  in  an  ICU  have  typically  substantial  instability  in  several  organ  systems.  Signs  and 
symptoms  that  could  be  classified  as  AEs  are  very  common  among  ICU  patients  and  to  identify  AEs 
related to a certain drug requires large study populations if not obviously linked to a certain drug. The 
exposure  to  dexmedetomidine  both  in  clinical  studies  and  when  used  in  daily  clinical  settings  can  be 
considered  large.  In  clinical  studies,  4765  subjects,  whereof  2103  <  were  ICU  patients,  have  been 
exposed  to  dexmedetomidine.  The  estimated  post-marketing  exposure  included  more  than  1  million 
patients. The safety database for dexmedetomidine is however limited regarding patients who required 
a  duration  of  infusion  longer  than  24  hours  and  also  those  who  experienced  upper  dose  range  >0.7 
µg/kg/h  and  representing  approximately  half  of  the  total  exposure.  No  studies  on  the  use  of 
dexmedetomidine  in  pregnancy  or  lactation  have  been  performed  and  there  are  no  exposures  to 
pregnant  or  lactating  women  in  the  available  studies.  Considering  the  reproductivity  seen  in  animal 
studies, dexmedetomidine should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary. 
The  overall  safety  profile  of  dexmedetomidine  has  been  found  to  be  rather  consistent  and  most 
reported AEs can be associated to its agonist effects on alpha-2 adrenoceptors, mainly cardiovascular 
related AEs.  
Cardiovascular events were most prominent with hypotension, hypertension and bradycardia being the 
most  commonly  reported  AEs  on  dexmedetomidine.  These  AEs  were  reported  with  statistically 
significantly  greater  incidence  in  dexmedetomidine  group  as  compared  to  propofol  and  midazolam 
groups. However no clear dose relationship has been established.  
Dexmedetomidine  had  an  overall  neutral  effect  on  mortality.  Most  deaths  occurred  well  after  the 
treatment period, were considered not related and reflected the common causes of death in critically ill 
patients  in  the  ICU  being  refractory  respiratory  failure,  multiple  organ  failure  and  septic  shock  or 
uncontrolled  infection.  In  particular,  cardiovascular  deaths  were  not  increased  on  dexmedetomidine. 
Mortality in postsurgical patients and those in studies outside the ICU was very low with no apparent 
difference between treatment groups. 
In the comparator controlled studies, SAEs were seen to have comparable incidence across treatment 
groups.  The  most  common  treatment  emergent  SAEs  reported  were  respiratory  failure,  septic  shock, 
sepsis,  bradycardia,  acute  respiratory  distress  syndrome  and  hypotension.  These  are  all  common 
conditions  that  would  be  expected  of  a  general  ICU  patient  population  with  predominance  of  medical 
patients.  The  most  common  reasons  for  discontinuing  study  drug  or  reducing  the  dose  were 
bradycardia,  agitation  and  hypotension.  Insufficient  effect  of  dexmedetomidine  was  among  the  more 
common reasons for discontinuation and was previously discussed under clinical efficacy aspects. 
Due  to  its  pharmacological  activity,  dexmedetomidine  also  reduced  HR  resulting  in  more  AEs  of 
bradycardia as well as prolonged PR and QT interval on the 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG). Four % 
of  dexmedetomidine  patients  had  bradycardia  sufficiently  severe  to  require  treatment  (normally 
anticholinergics) 
in  studies  3005012  and  3005013.  Additional  cases  of  hypotension  on 
dexmedetomidine reflected central sympatholysis. The pharmacological effect on glucose (reduction of 
insulin secretion leading to hyperglycaemia) was most likely masked by close glycaemic control in ICU 
patients and therefore both hypo/hyperglycaemia were commonly reported. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 71/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hallucinations  were  reported  in  more  patients  receiving  dexmedetomidine  than  propofol  and 
midazolam, particularly in the ICU, although this was still uncommon. Hallucinations were not observed 
in  the  non-ICU  studies.  Hallucinations  are  known  to  be  common  in  critically  ill  patients  regardless  of 
the method of sedation. 
Overall,  the  safety  profile  of  dexmedetomidine  is  considered  well  known  and  manageable  in  the 
intended  clinical  use.  Dexmedetomidine  is  for  hospital  use  only  and  should  be  administered  by 
healthcare  professionals  skilled  in  the  management  of  patients  requiring  intensive  care.  The  CHMP 
however was concerned about literature data suggesting off label use of dexmedetomidine, particularly 
in  the  paediatric  population  and  recommended  the  conduct  of  a  drug  utilisation  study  to address  this 
issue.  In  addition  to  previous  SmPC  recommendations  related  to  cardiovascular  safety  of 
dexmedetomidine,  the  CHMP  also  requested  to  include  a  warning  related  to  risk  of  hypothermic 
bradycardia 
in  neonates  and 
information  on  higher 
incidence  of  cortisol  suppression 
in 
dexmedetomidine as compared to midazolam and propofol observed in clinical studies. 
2.6.10.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing have 
been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. Appropriate measures including an additional 
pharmacovigilance  activity  (see  2.7)  has  been  put  in  place  to  ensure  safe  and  effective  use  of  the 
product in the recommended indication. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
2.7.1.  Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.  
2.7.2.  Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan 
Table 37. Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and 
additional) 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities (routine and 
additional) 
Important identified risks 
Bradycardia 
Routine pharmacovigilance,  
Routine risk minimisation 
(Bradycardia is identified in the 
proposed SPC in Section 4.4 
Special warnings and precaution 
for use, Section 4.5 Interaction 
with other medicinal products 
and other forms of interaction 
and Section 4.8 Undesirable 
effects. The SPC may be 
updated if new patterns develop 
during ongoing review) 
Hypotension 
Routine pharmacovigilance,  
Routine risk minimisation 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 72/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and 
additional) 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities (routine and 
additional) 
(Hypotension is identified in the 
proposed SPC in Section 4.4 
Special warnings and precaution 
for use, Section 4.5 Interaction 
with other medicinal products 
and other forms of interaction 
and Section 4.8 Undesirable 
effects, and uncontrolled 
hypotension is included in 
section 4.3 Contraindications. 
The SPC may be updated if new 
patterns develop during ongoing 
review) 
Routine risk minimisation 
(Hypertension is identified in 
the proposed SPC in Section 4.4 
Special warnings and precaution 
for use and Section 4.8 
Undesirable effects. The SPCmay 
be updated if new 
patterns develop during ongoing 
review) may be updated if new 
patterns develop during ongoing 
review) 
Routine risk minimisation 
(Hyperglycaemia is identified in 
the proposed SPC in Section 4.8 
Undesirable effects. The SPC 
may be updated if new patterns 
develop during ongoing review) 
Routine risk minimisation 
(Withdrawal syndrome is 
identified in the proposed SPC 
in Section 4.4 Special warnings 
and precaution for use and 
Section 4.8 Undesirable effects. 
The SPC may be updated if new 
patterns develop during ongoing 
review) 
Routine risk minimisation 
(Hypoglycaemia is identified in 
the proposed SPC in Section 4.8 
Undesirable effects. The SPC 
may be updated if new patterns 
develop during ongoing review) 
Routine risk minimisation 
(Atrioventricular block is 
identified in the proposed SPC 
in Sections 4.3 
Contraindications and 4.8 
Undesirable effects. The SPC 
may be updated if new patterns 
Page 73/79
Hypertension 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Hyperglycaemia 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Withdrawal symptom 
Routine pharmacovigilance,  
Important potential risks 
Hypoglycaemia 
Atrioventricular block 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Close monitoring with specified 
follow-up queries for each 
ICSR. 
Detailed review in PSURs. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Close monitoring with specified 
follow-up queries for each 
ICSR. 
Detailed review in PSURs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Ischaemic heart disease 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and 
additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Close monitoring with specified 
follow-up queries for each 
ICSR. 
Detailed review in PSURs. 
Cortisol suppression 
Convulsions 
Hypothermia 
Respiratory depression 
Tachypnoeic potential 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Close monitoring with specified 
follow-up queries for each 
ICSR. 
Detailed review in PSURs. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Close monitoring with specified 
follow-up queries for each 
ICSR. 
Detailed review in PSURs. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Close monitoring with specified 
follow-up queries for each 
ICSR. 
Detailed review in PSURs. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Close monitoring with specified 
follow-up queries for each 
ICSR. 
Detailed review in PSURs. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Close monitoring with specified 
follow-up queries for each 
ICSR. 
Detailed review in PSURs. 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities (routine and 
additional) 
develop during ongoing review) 
Routine risk minimisation 
(The proposed SPC states that 
all patients should have 
continuous cardiac monitoring 
during Dexdor infusion. 
Myocardial ischaemia is 
described in Section 4.4. Special 
warnings and precautions for 
use and myocardial ischeamia or 
infarction in Section 4.8 
Undesirable effects in the proposed 
SPC for Dexdor. The 
SPC may be updated if new 
patterns develop during ongoing 
review) 
Routine risk minimisation 
(Cortisol suppression is 
identified in the proposed SPC 
in Section 5.1 
Pharmacodynamic properties. 
The SPC may be updated if new 
patterns develop during ongoing 
review). 
Re-assessment of the need for 
risk minimisation measures (e.g. 
updating the SPC) will be 
conducted should specific new 
evidence regarding the risk be 
revealed from the routine 
pharmacovigilance practices. 
Re-assessment of the need for 
risk minimisation measures (e.g. 
updating the SPC) will be 
conducted should specific new 
evidence regarding the risk be 
revealed from the routine 
pharmacovigilance practices. 
Re-assessment of the need for 
risk minimisation measures (e.g. 
updating the SPC) will be 
conducted should specific new 
evidence regarding the risk be 
revealed from the routine 
pharmacovigilance practices. 
Re-assessment of the need for 
risk minimisation measures (e.g. 
updating the SPC) will be 
conducted should specific new 
evidence regarding the risk be 
revealed from the routine 
pharmacovigilance practices. 
Overdose 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimization 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 74/79
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities (routine and 
additional) 
Close monitoring with specified 
follow-up queries for each 
ICSR. 
Detailed review in PSURs. 
Misuse 
Off label use 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Close monitoring with specified 
follow-up queries for each 
ICSR. 
Detailed review in PSURs 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Close monitoring with specified 
follow-up queries for each 
ICSR. 
Detailed review in PSURs 
Drug utilisation study to evaluate 
off label use (specifically paediatric 
use) 
Missing information 
Pregnancy 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Detailed review in PSURs 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities (routine and 
additional) 
(Overdose is discussed in the 
proposed SPC in section 4.9. 
Guidances on the proper 
administration of 
dexmedetomidine and 
preparation of the infusion 
solution are given in section 4.2 
Posology and method of 
administration and section 6.6 
Special precautions for disposal 
and other handling of the 
proposed SPC, respectively.) 
Routine risk minimization 
(Dexdor is for hospital use only, 
and it is administered by 
healthcare professionals skilled 
in the management of patients in 
intensive care ensuring the 
proper detection and treatment 
of the identified and potential 
risks and reducing the 
possibility of misuse.) 
Routine risk minimization 
(Dexdor is indicated for 
sedation of adult ICU patients 
requiring a sedation level not 
deeper than arousal in response 
to verbal stimulation 
(corresponding to RASS 0 to - 
3)). Dexdor should be 
administered by healthcare 
professionals skilled in the 
management of patients 
requiring intensive care. All 
patients should have continuous 
cardiac monitoring during Dexdor 
infusion or respiration should be 
monitored in non intubated patients 
Routine risk minimization 
(Pregnancy is discussed in 
proposed SPC in section 4.6 
Fertility, Pregnancy and Lactation 
The SPC may be updated if new 
patterns develop during ongoing 
review ) 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the below pharmacovigilance 
activity in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance are needed to investigate further some of 
the safety concerns:  
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 75/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description 
Due date 
Drug utilisation study to evaluate the off-label use of 
Study protocol: within 3 months after EC 
Dexdor 
decision 
Study initiation date: approximately 12 
months after EC decision 
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
2.8.  Significance/ Non-Conformity of paediatric studies 
Not applicable 
2.9.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
There  has  been  a  shift  in  ICU  practice  in  recent  years  away  from  an  absolute  requirement  for  deep 
sedation and it is increasingly recognised that lighter levels of sedation with a resultant reduced period 
of time on a ventilator is desirable.  Dexmedetomidine appears to offer a level of sedation comparable 
to  an  equivalent  dose  of  midazolam  and  therefore  may  have  some  desirable  qualities  for  patients 
requiring light to moderate sedation.  
In  study  3005013,  the  mean  percentage  of  time  at  the  target  sedation  level  without  use  of  rescue 
treatment was 60.7% and 56.6% for dexmedetomidine and midazolam groups, respectively confirming 
non  inferiority  for  the  first  co-primary  endpoint.  As  the  lower  limit  of  the  95%  CI  for  the  estimated 
ratio between the treatment groups (0.97) was above the predefined non-inferiority margin (> 0.85), 
dexmedetomidine was proven clinically non-inferior to midazolam. Both PP and ITT population showed 
consistent  results  with  a  better  trend  in  the  PP  population  (ratio:  1.09  versus  1.07)  supporting  the 
primary  analysis.  Although  duration  of  infusion  was  shorter  as  observed  in  the  previous  study 
3005012, longer time at target was observed for dexmedetomidine group as compared with midazolam 
group  (37.75  versus  37.07)  supporting  non  inferiority  results.  The  median  duration  of  mechanical 
ventilation  (i.e.,  time  to  being  free  from  mechanical  ventilation  that  was  not  re-instituted  within  48 
hours) was 41 hours shorter in the dexmedetomidine group (123 hours) than in the midazolam group 
(164 hours) in the ITT population. 
In  study  3005012,  the  mean  percentage  of  time  at  target  sedation  without  use  of  rescue  treatment 
were  64.6%  versus  64.7%  for  dexmedetomidine    and  propofol  groups,  respectively,  confirming  non 
inferiority  for  the  first  co-primary  endpoint.  Both  PP  d  ITT  population  showed  consistent  results. 
However; ITT results were less convincing than the PP (ratio: 0.97 versus 1.00), although the CI was 
still above the non-inferiority margin of 0.85.  
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 76/79
 
 
 
 
 
The pooled data of phase III studies showed dexmedetomidine to be significantly better than standard 
sedation  in  reducing  the  duration  of  mechanical  ventilation  by  both  Cox’s  test  (p=0.028)  and  Gehan 
Wilcoxon  test  (p=0.006).  The  combined  reduction  in  mechanical  ventilation  time  was  0.8  days 
(dexmedetomidine  83h;  standard  of  care  102h).  Dexmedetomidine  was  significantly  better  in  the 
combined  analysis  than  standard  sedation  in  reducing  the  time  to  extubation  by  both  Cox’s  test 
(p=0.002)  and  Gehan  Wilcoxon  test  (p<0.001).  The  combined  reduction  in  time  to  extubation  was 
0.96 days (dexmedetomidine 68h; standard of care 91h). Individually, studies 3005012 and 3005013 
showed significant reductions in time to extubation by Cox’s test (p=0.023 and p=0.029 respectively) 
and by Gehan Wilcoxon test (p=0.032 and p=0.002 respectively). 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
There  are  ICU  patients  for  whom  dexmedetomidine  will  not  be  able  to  provide  a  sufficient  level  of 
sedation.  Furthermore,  there  are  clinical  ICU  situations  that  may  not  be  suitable  for  the  use  of 
dexmedetomidine  considering  its  cardiovascular  adverse  effects  and  that  no  clear  dose  response  has 
been  established,  dexmedetomidine  is  being  administered  to  effect.  These  uncertainties  have  been 
considered manageable via routine pharmacovigilance and adequate labelling. 
In  study  3005012,  the  CHMP  was  concerned  that  patients  randomised  to  dexmedetomidine  spent  on 
average  a  substantially  shorter  time  at  target  (33.51  versus  47.12,  ie  14  hours  less)  suggesting  that 
patients  on  dexmedetomidine  were  discontinuing  study  treatment  earlier  than  those  on  propofol  for 
reasons  related  treatment.  The  number  of  discontinuations  because  of  lack  of  efficacy  further 
supported  this  finding.    This  uncertainty  was  addressed  by  adequate  post-hoc  analyses.  Although,  in 
the design of phase III studies, there is an inherent methodological bias unfavouring dexmedetomidine 
in that patients who are already established on a sedative at an efficacious dose are likely to enter a 
period  of  “instability”  when  being  switched  to  an  alternative  sedative,  the  CHMP  noted  that  in  study 
3005012,  the  majority  of  the  patients  who  were  successfully  managed  on  dexmedetomidine  did  not 
require more rescue sedation than subjects receiving propofol , achieving a stable sedation. 
In study 3005012, for the second co-primary endpoint, the duration of mechanical ventilation did not 
differ  statistically  significantly  between  treatment  groups  using  different  tests  (Gehan  Wilcoxon  : 
p=0.240;  Cox HR:0.49, 0.77-1.13). However, from a statistical perspective, the hierarchical approach 
used for the co-primary endpoints can be considered sufficient to make the study positive. 
Literature  suggested  off  label  use  of  dexmedetomidine,  particularly  in  the  paediatric  population  while 
there are limited paediatric data. A drug utilisation study to address the issue of off label use has been 
included as part of the risk management plan. 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
Maternal and foetal toxicity (including embryo-foetal deaths) in animal studies were noted. 
Dexmedetomidine  is  a  specific  alpha-2  adrenoceptor  agonist  and  its  safety  profile  can  be  considered 
well  known  (e.g.  bradycardia,  hypotension,  reduced  cardiac  output)  and  supported  by  more  than  ten 
years  of  post-marketing  experience.    No  new  safety  signals  have  been  identified  from  the  clinical 
studies and post-marketing data.  
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 77/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
Excessive  dosing  in  patients  with  severe  hepatic  impairment  may  lead  to  over  sedation  and  increase 
risk  of  adverse  reactions.  Dexmedetomidine  should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  with  hepatic 
impairment and that a dose reduction may be considered in this population. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
It should be noted that the proposed posology is different to that approved elsewhere in the world and 
this  should  be  considered  when  interpreting  the  global  post-marketing  safety  data.  Therefore,  the 
safety database for dexmedetomidine is limited regarding patients who required a duration of infusion 
longer than 24 hours and also those who experienced upper dose range >0.7 µg/kg/h. 
No  studies  on  the  use  of dexmedetomidine in  pregnancy  or lactation  have  been  performed  and  there 
are no exposures to pregnant or lactating women in the available studies. Considering the pre-clinical 
data, dexmedetomidine should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary. 
No  clear  dose  relationship  has  been  established  regarding  the  adverse  events  profile  of 
dexmedetomidine. 
Benefit Risk Balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
Non  inferiority  versus  midazolam  and  propofol  as  a  standard  of  care  has  been  established. 
Dexmedetomidine is of particular benefit as an additional alternative to achieve desirable sedation level 
not  greater  than  -3  according  to  the  RASS,  in  ICU  patients  considering  the  current  clinical  practice. 
Dexmedetomidine also allows further flexibility in the ICU setting for patients who do not require deep 
sedation  and  has  shown  additional  advantage  in  reducing  the  time  for  extubation  as  compared  to 
standard of care. In addition, the safety profile of dexmedetomidine is considered well known based on 
its  extensive  clinical  and  post-marketing  exposure  and  is  manageable  via  routine  pharmacovigilance 
and  adequate  Labelling.  The  product  is  intended  for  hospital  use  and  should  be  administered  by 
healthcare professionals skilled in the management of patients requiring intensive care. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Having  considered  the  benefits  of  dexmedetomidine  as  a  sedative  agent  over  the  potential  and 
identified risks, the CHMP concluded that the benefit risk balance for dexmedetomidine is positive for 
the following indication: 
For  sedation  of  adult  ICU  (Intensive  Care  Unit)  patients  requiring  a  sedation  level  not  deeper  than 
arousal in response to verbal stimulation (corresponding to Richmond Agitation-Sedation Scale (RASS) 
0 to -3). 
4. Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considers  by  consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of Dexdor (dexmedetomidine) “For sedation of adult ICU (Intensive Care 
Unit)  patients  requiring  a  sedation  level  not  deeper  than  arousal  in  response  to  verbal  stimulation 
(corresponding  to  Richmond  Agitation-Sedation  Scale  (RASS)  0  to  -3).”  is  favourable  and  therefore 
recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 78/79
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Risk Management System  
The  MAH  must  ensure  that  the  system  of  pharmacovigilance,  presented  in  Module  1.8.1  of  the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
The  MAH  shall  perform  the  pharmacovigilance  activities  detailed  in  the  Pharmacovigilance  Plan,  as 
agreed  in  the  Risk  Management  Plan  presented  in  Module  1.8.2.  of  the  Marketing  Authorisation  and 
any  subsequent  updates  of  the  RMP  agreed  by  the  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use 
(CHMP). 
As  per  the  CHMP  Guideline  on  Risk  Management  Systems  for  medicinal  products  for  human  use,  the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
  When new information is received that may impact on the current Safety Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached  
  at the request of the EMA 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable 
Dexdor 
Assessment report  
Page 79/79
 
 
 
 
 
