ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Dexdor 100 micrograms/ml concentrate for solution for infusion
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each 1 ml of concentrate contains dexmedetomidine hydrochloride equivalent to 100 micrograms 
dexmedetomidine. 
Each 2 ml ampoule contains 200 micrograms of dexmedetomidine.
Each 2 ml vial contains 200 micrograms of dexmedetomidine.
Each 4 ml vial contains 400 micrograms of dexmedetomidine.
Each 10 ml vial contains 1 000 micrograms of dexmedetomidine.
The concentration of the final solution after dilution should be either 4 micrograms/ml or 
8 micrograms/ml.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate).
The concentrate is a clear, colourless solution, pH 4.5–7.0
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
For sedation of adult ICU (Intensive Care Unit) patients requiring a sedation level not deeper than 
arousal in response to verbal stimulation (corresponding to Richmond Agitation-Sedation Scale 
(RASS) 0 to -3).
For sedation of non-intubated adult patients prior to and/or during diagnostic or surgical procedures 
requiring sedation, i.e. procedural/awake sedation.
4.2
Posology and method of administration
For sedation of adult ICU (Intensive Care Unit) patients requiring a sedation level not deeper 
than arousal in response to verbal stimulation (corresponding to Richmond Agitation-Sedation 
Scale (RASS) 0 to -3).
For hospital use only. Dexdor should be administered by healthcare professionals skilled in the 
management of patients requiring intensive care.
Posology
Patients already intubated and sedated may switch to dexmedetomidine with an initial infusion rate of
0.7 micrograms/kg/h which may then be adjusted stepwise within the dose range 0.2 to 
1.4 micrograms/kg/h in order to achieve the desired level of sedation, depending on the patient’s 
response. A lower starting infusion rate should be considered for frail patients. Dexmedetomidine is 
very potent and the infusion rate is given per hour. After dose adjustment, a new steady state sedation 
level may not be reached for up to one hour.
2
Maximum dose
The maximum dose of 1.4 micrograms/kg/h should not be exceeded. Patients failing to achieve an 
adequate level of sedation with the maximum dose of dexmedetomidine should be switched to an 
alternative sedative agent.
Use of a loading dose of Dexdor in ICU sedation is not recommended and is associated with increased 
adverse reactions. Propofol or midazolam may be administered if needed until clinical effects of 
dexmedetomidine are established. 
Duration
There is no experience in the use of Dexdor for more than 14 days. The use of Dexdor for longer than 
this period should be regularly reassessed.
For sedation of non-intubated adult patients prior to and/or during diagnostic or surgical 
procedures requiring sedation, i.e. procedural/awake sedation.
Dexdor should be administered only by health care professionals skilled in the anaesthetic 
management of patients in the operating room or during diagnostic procedures. When Dexdor is 
administered for conscious sedation, patients should be continuously monitored by persons not 
involved in the conduct of the diagnostic or surgical procedure. Patients should be monitored 
continuously for early signs of hypotension, hypertension, bradycardia, respiratory depression, airway 
obstruction, apnoea, dyspnoea and/or oxygen desaturation (see section 4.8).
Supplemental oxygen should be immediately available and provided when indicated. The oxygen 
saturation should be monitored by pulse oximetry.
Dexdor is given as a loading infusion followed by maintenance infusion. Depending on the procedure 
concomitant local anaesthesia or analgesia may be needed in order to achieve the desired clinical 
effect. Additional analgesia or sedatives (e.g. opioids, midazolam, or propofol) are recommended in 
case of painful procedures or if increased depth of sedation is necessary. The pharmacokinetic 
distribution half –life of Dexdor has been estimated to be around 6 min, which can be taken into 
consideration, together with the effects of other administered medications, when assessing the 
appropriate time needed for titration to desired clinical effect of Dexdor.
Initiation of Procedural Sedation:
- A loading infusion of 1.0 microgram/kg over 10 minutes. For less invasive procedures such as 
ophthalmic surgery, a loading infusion of 0.5 micrograms/kg given over 10 minutes may be 
suitable.
Maintenance of Procedural Sedation:
- The maintenance infusion is generally initiated at 0.6–0.7 microgram/kg/hour and titrated to 
achieve desired clinical effect with doses ranging from 0.2 to 1 microgram/kg/hour. The rate of 
the maintenance infusion should be adjusted to achieve the targeted level of sedation.
Special populations
Elderly
No dose adjustment is normally required for elderly patients (see section 5.2). Elderly patients appear 
to have an increased risk for hypotension (see section 4.4) but the limited data available from 
procedural sedation do not suggest a clear dose dependency.
3
Renal impairment
No dose adjustment is required for patients with renal impairment.
Hepatic impairment
Dexmedetomidine is metabolised in the liver and should be used with caution in patients with hepatic 
impairment. A reduced maintenance dose may be considered (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of Dexdor in children aged 0 to 18 years have not been established. Currently 
available data are described in sections 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 but no recommendation on a posology can be 
made.
Method of administration 
Dexdor must be administered only as a diluted intravenous infusion using a controlled infusion device. 
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Advanced heart block (grade 2 or 3) unless paced.
Uncontrolled hypotension.
Acute cerebrovascular conditions.
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Monitoring
Dexdor is intended for use in an intensive care setting, operating room and during diagnostic 
procedures. The use in other environments is not recommended. All patients should have continuous 
cardiac monitoring during Dexdor infusion. Respiration should be monitored in non-intubated patients
due to the risk of respiratory depression and in some case apnoea (see section 4.8).
The time to recovery after the use of dexmedetomidine was reported to be approximately one hour. 
When used in an outpatient setting close monitoring should continue for at least one hour (or longer 
based on the patient condition), with medical supervision continued for at least one further hour to 
ensure the safety of the patient.
General precautions
Dexdor should not be given as a bolus dose and in the ICU a loading dose is not recommended. Users 
should therefore be ready to use an alternative sedative for acute control of agitation or during 
procedures, especially during the first few hours of treatment. During procedural sedation a small 
bolus of another sedative may be used if a rapid increase in sedation level is required.
Some patients receiving Dexdor have been observed to be arousable and alert when stimulated. This 
alone should not be considered as evidence of lack of efficacy in the absence of other clinical signs 
and symptoms.
4
Dexmedetomidine normally does not cause deep sedation and patients may be easily roused. 
Dexmedetomidine is therefore not suitable in patients who will not tolerate this profile of effects, for 
example those requiring continuous deep sedation.
Dexdor should not be used as a general anaesthetic induction agent for intubation or to provide 
sedation during muscle relaxant use.
Dexmedetomidine lacks the anticonvulsant action of some other sedatives and so will not suppress 
underlying seizure activity.
Care should be taken if combining dexmedetomidine with other substances with sedative or 
cardiovascular actions as additive effects may occur.
Dexdor is not recommended for patient controlled sedation. Adequate data is not available.
When Dexdor is used in an outpatient setting patients should normally be discharged into the care of a 
suitable third party. Patients should be advised to refrain from driving or other hazardous tasks and 
where possible to avoid the use of other agents that may sedate (e.g, benzodiazepines, opioids, 
alcohol) for a suitable period of time based on observed effects of dexmedetomidine, the procedure, 
concomitant medications, the age and the condition of the patient.
Caution should be exercised when administering dexmedetomidine to elderly patients. Elderly patients 
over 65 years of age may be more prone to hypotension with the administration of dexmedetomidine, 
including a loading dose, for procedures. A dose reduction should be considered. Please refer to 
section 4.2.
Mortality in ICU patients ≤ 65 years old
In the SPICE III pragmatic randomised controlled trial of 3 904 critically ill adult ICU patients 
dexmedetomidine was used as primary sedative and compared with usual care. There was no overall 
difference in 90-day mortality between the dexmedetomidine and usual care group (mortality 29.1% in 
both groups), but a heterogeneity of effect from age on mortality was observed. Dexmedetomidine was 
associated with an increased mortality in the age-group ≤ 65 years (odds ratio 1.26; 95% credibility 
interval 1.02 to 1.56) compared to alternative sedatives. While the mechanism is unclear, this 
heterogeneity of effect on mortality from age was most prominent in patients admitted for reasons 
other than post-operative care, and increased with increasing APACHE II scores and with decreasing 
age. These findings should be weighed against the expected clinical benefit of dexmedetomidine 
compared to alternative sedatives in younger patients.
Cardio-vascular effects and precautions
Dexmedetomidine reduces heart rate and blood pressure through central sympatholysis but at higher 
concentrations causes peripheral vasoconstriction leading to hypertension (see section 5.1).
Dexmedetomidine is therefore not suitable in patients with severe cardiovascular instability.
Caution should be exercised when administering dexmedetomidine to patients with pre-existing 
bradycardia. Data on the effects of Dexdor in patients with heart rate < 60 are very limited and
particular care should be taken with such patients. Bradycardia does not normally require treatment,
but has commonly responded to anti-cholinergic medicine or dose reduction where needed. Patients 
with high physical fitness and slow resting heart rate may be particularly sensitive to bradycardic 
effects of alpha-2 receptor agonists and cases of transient sinus arrest have been reported. Also cases 
of cardiac arrest, often preceded by bradycardia or atrioventricular block, have been reported (see 
section 4.8).
The hypotensive effects of dexmedetomidine may be of greater significance in those patients with pre-
existing hypotension (especially if not responsive to vasopressors), hypovolaemia, chronic 
hypotension or reduced functional reserve such as patients with severe ventricular dysfunction and the 
5
elderly and special care is warranted in these cases (see section 4.3). Hypotension does not normally 
require specific treatment but, where needed, users should be ready to intervene with dose reduction, 
fluids and/or vasoconstrictors .
Patients with impaired peripheral autonomic activity (e.g. due to spinal cord injury) may have more 
pronounced haemodynamic changes after starting dexmedetomidine and so should be treated with 
care.
Transient hypertension has been observed primarily during the loading dose in association with the 
peripheral vasoconstrictive effects of dexmedetomidine and a loading dose is not recommended in 
ICU sedation. Treatment of hypertension has generally not been necessary but decreasing the 
continuous infusion rate may be advisable.
Local vasoconstriction at higher concentration may be of greater significance in patients with 
ischaemic heart disease or severe cerebrovascular disease who should be monitored closely. Dose 
reduction or discontinuation should be considered in a patient developing signs of myocardial or 
cerebral ischaemia.
Caution is advised when administering dexmedetomidine together with spinal or epidural anaesthesia 
due to possible increased risk of hypotension or bradycardia. 
Patients with hepatic impairment
Care should be taken in severe hepatic impairment as excessive dosing may increase the risk of 
adverse reactions, over-sedation or prolonged effect as a result of reduced dexmedetomidine clearance.
Patients with neurological disorders
Experience of dexmedetomidine in severe neurological disorders such as head injury and after 
neurosurgery is limited and it should be used with caution here, especially if deep sedation is required. 
Dexmedetomidine may reduce cerebral blood flow and intracranial pressure and this should be 
considered when selecting therapy.
Other
Alpha-2 agonists have rarely been associated with withdrawal reactions when stopped abruptly after 
prolonged use. This possibility should be considered if the patient develops agitation and hypertension 
shortly after stopping dexmedetomidine.
Dexmedetomidine may induce hyperthermia that may be resistant to traditional cooling methods. 
Dexmedetomidine treatment should be discontinued in the event of a sustained unexplained fever and 
is not recommended for use in malignant hyperthermia-sensitive patients.
Diabetes insipidus has been reported in association with dexmedetomidine treatment. If polyuria 
occurs, it is recommended to stop dexmedetomidine and check serum sodium level and urine 
osmolality.
Dexdor contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per ml.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
Co-administration of dexmedetomidine with anaesthetics, sedatives, hypnotics, and opioids is likely to 
lead to an enhancement of effects, including sedative, anaesthetic and cardiorespiratory effects. 
Specific studies have confirmed enhanced effects with isoflurane, propofol, alfentanil, and midazolam. 
6
No pharmacokinetic interactions between dexmedetomidine and isoflurane, propofol, alfentanil and 
midazolam have been demonstrated. However, due to possible pharmacodynamic interactions, when 
co-administered with dexmedetomidine, a reduction in dosage of dexmedetomidine or the concomitant 
anaesthetic, sedative, hypnotic or opioid may be required.
Inhibition of CYP enzymes including CYP2B6 by dexmedetomidine has been studied in human liver 
microsome incubations. In vitro study suggests that interaction potential in vivo exists between 
dexmedetomidine and substrates with dominant CYP2B6 metabolism.
Induction of dexmedetomidine in vitro was observed on CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9 and 
CYP3A4, and induction in vivo cannot be excluded. The clinical significance is unknown.
The possibility of enhanced hypotensive and bradycardic effects should be considered in patients 
receiving other medicinal products causing these effects, for example beta blockers, although 
additional effects in an interaction study with esmolol were modest.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of dexmedetomidine in pregnant women. 
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Dexdor should not be used 
during pregnancy unless the clinical condition of the woman requires treatment with 
dexmedetomidine.
Breastfeeding
Dexmedetomidine is excreted in human milk, however levels will be below the limit of detection by 
24 hours following treatment discontinuation. A risk to infants cannot be excluded. A decision must be 
made whether to discontinue breastfeeding or to discontinue dexmedetomidine therapy taking into 
account the benefit of breastfeeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman.
Fertility
In the rat fertility study, dexmedetomidine had no effect on male or female fertility. No human data on 
fertility are available.
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Patients should be advised to refrain from driving or other hazardous tasks for a suitable period of time 
after receiving Dexdor for procedural sedation.
4.8 Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile
Sedation of adult ICU (Intensive Care Unit) patients
The most frequently reported adverse reactions with dexmedetomidine in ICU setting are hypotension, 
hypertension and bradycardia, occurring in approximately 25%, 15% and 13% of patients respectively. 
Hypotension and bradycardia were also the most frequent dexmedetomidine-related serious adverse 
reactions occurring in 1.7% and 0.9% of randomised Intensive Care Unit (ICU) patients respectively.
Procedural/awake sedation 
7
The most frequently reported adverse reactions with dexmedetomidine in procedural sedation are 
listed below (the protocols of phase III studies contained pre-defined thresholds for reporting changes 
in blood pressure, respiratory rate and heart rate as AEs).
- Hypotension (55% in dexmedetomidine-group vs. 30% in placebo-group receiving rescue
midazolam and fentanyl)
- Respiratory depression ( 38% in dexmedetomidine-group vs. 35% in placebo-group receiving 
rescue midazolam and fentanyl)
- Bradycardia (14% in dexmedetomidine-group vs. 4% in placebo-group receiving rescue 
midazolam and fentanyl)
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The adverse reactions listed in Table 1 have been accumulated from pooled data of clinical trials in 
intensive care.
Adverse reactions are ranked under headings of frequency, the most frequent first, using the following 
convention: Very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100); 
rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000), very rare (< 1/10 000), not known (cannot be estimated from the 
available data).
Table 1. Adverse reactions
Endocrine disorders
Not known:
Diabetes insipidus
Metabolism and nutrition disorders
Common:
Uncommon: Metabolic acidosis, hypoalbuminaemia
Hyperglycaemia, hypoglycaemia
Psychiatric disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Agitation
Hallucination
Cardiac disorders
Very common: Bradycardia1,2
Common:
Uncommon:
Myocardial ischaemia or infarction, tachycardia
Atrioventricular block1, cardiac output decreased, cardiac arrest1
Vascular disorders:
Very common: Hypotension1,2, hypertension1,2
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders
Very common: Respiratory depression2,3
Uncommon:
Dyspnoea, apnoea
Gastrointestinal disorders
Common:
Uncommon:
Nausea2, vomiting, dry mouth2
Abdominal distension
General disorders and administration site conditions
Common:
Withdrawal syndrome, hyperthermia
Uncommon:  Drug ineffective, thirst
1 See section on Description of selected adverse reactions
2 Adverse reaction observed also in procedural sedation studies
8
3 Incidence ‘common’ in ICU sedation studies
Description of selected adverse reactions
Clinically significant hypotension or bradycardia should be treated as described in section 4.4.
In relatively healthy non-ICU subjects treated with dexmedetomidine, bradycardia has occasionally 
led to sinus arrest or pause. The symptoms responded to leg raising and anticholinergics such as 
atropine or glycopyrrolate. In isolated cases bradycardia has progressed to periods of asystole in 
patients with pre-existing bradycardia. Also cases of cardiac arrest, often preceded by bradycardia or 
atrioventricular block, have been reported.
Hypertension has been associated with the use of a loading dose and this reaction can be reduced by 
avoiding such a loading dose or reducing the infusion rate or size of the loading dose.
Paediatric population
Children > 1 month post-natal, predominantly post-operative, have been evaluated for treatment up to 
24 hours in the ICU and demonstrated a similar safety profile as in adults. Data in new-born infants 
(28–44 weeks gestation) is very limited and restricted to maintenance doses ≤ 0.2 mcg/kg/h. A single 
case of hypothermic bradycardia in a neonate has been reported in the literature.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
Symptoms
Several cases of dexmedetomidine overdose have been reported both in the clinical trial and the post-
marketing data. The reported highest infusion rates of dexmedetomidine in these cases have reached 
up to 60 µg/kg/h for 36 minutes and 30 µg/kg/h for 15 minutes in a 20 month–old child and in an 
adult, respectively. The most common adverse reactions reported in conjunction with overdose include
bradycardia, hypotension, hypertension, oversedation, respiratory depression and cardiac arrest.
Management
In cases of overdose with clinical symptoms, dexmedetomidine infusion should be reduced or stopped. 
Expected effects are primarily cardiovascular and should be treated as clinically indicated (see 
section 4.4). At high concentration hypertension may be more prominent than hypotension. In clinical 
studies, cases of sinus arrest reversed spontaneously or responded to treatment with atropine and 
glycopyrrolate. Resuscitation was required in isolated cases of severe overdose resulting in cardiac 
arrest.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Psycholeptics, other hypnotics and sedatives, ATC code: N05CM18
9
Dexmedetomidine is a selective alpha-2 receptor agonist with a broad range of pharmacological 
properties. It has a sympatholytic effect through decrease of the release of noradrenaline in 
sympathetic nerve endings. The sedative effects are mediated through decreased firing of locus 
coeruleus, the predominant noradrenergic nucleus, situated in the brainstem. Dexmedetomidine has 
analgesic and anaesthetic/analgesic-sparing effects. The cardiovascular effects depend on the dose; 
with lower infusion rates the central effects dominate leading to decrease in heart rate and blood 
pressure. With higher doses, peripheral vasoconstricting effects prevail leading to an increase in 
systemic vascular resistance and blood pressure, while the bradycardic effect is further emphasised. 
Dexmedetomidine is relatively free from respiratory depressive effects when given as monotherapy to 
healthy subjects.
Sedation of adult ICU (Intensive Care Unit) patients
In placebo controlled trials in a post-operative ICU population previously intubated and sedated with 
midazolam or propofol, Dexdor significantly reduced the requirement for both rescue sedative 
(midazolam or propofol) and opioids during sedation for up to 24 hours. Most dexmedetomidine 
patients required no additional sedative treatment. Patients could be successfully extubated without 
stopping the Dexdor infusion. Studies from outside the ICU have confirmed that Dexdor can be 
administered safely to patients without endotracheal intubation provided adequate monitoring is in 
place.
Dexmedetomidine was similar to midazolam (Ratio 1.07; 95% CI 0.971, 1.176) and propofol (Ratio 
1.00; 95% CI 0.922, 1.075) on the time in target sedation range in a predominently medical population 
requiring prolonged light to moderate sedation (RASS 0 to -3) in the ICU for up to 14 days, reduced 
the duration of mechanical ventilation compared to midazolam and reduced the time to extubation 
compared to midazolam and propofol. Compared to both propofol and midazolam, patients were more 
easily roused, more cooperative and better able to communicate whether or not they had pain. 
Dexmedetomidine treated patients had more frequent hypotension and bradycardia but less tachycardia 
than those receiving midazolam and more frequent tachycardia but similar hypotension to propofol-
treated patients. Delirium measured by the CAM-ICU scale was reduced in a study compared to 
midazolam and delirium-related adverse events were lower on dexmedetomidine compared to 
propofol. Those patients who withdrew due to insufficient sedation were switched to either propofol or 
midazolam. The risk of insufficient sedation was increased in patients who were difficult to sedate 
with standard care immediately prior to switching.
Evidence of paediatric efficacy was seen in a dose-controlled ICU study in a largely post-operative 
population aged 1 month to ≤ 17 years. Approximately 50% of patients treated with dexmedetomidine 
did not require rescue addition of midazolam during a median treatment period of 20.3 hours, not 
exceeding 24 hours. Data on treatment for > 24 hours is not available. Data in new-born infants (28–
44 weeks gestation) is very limited and restricted to low doses (≤ 0.2 mcg/kg/h) (see sections 5.2 and 
4.4). New-born infants may be particularly sensitive to the bradycardic effects of Dexdor in the 
presence of hypothermia and in conditions of heart rate-dependent cardiac output. 
In double blind comparator controlled ICU studies the incidence of cortisol suppression in patients 
treated with dexmedetomidine (n = 778) was 0.5% compared with 0% in patients treated with either 
midazolam (n = 338) or propofol (n = 275). The event was reported as mild in 1 and moderate in 3 
cases.
Procedural/awake sedation
The safety and efficacy of dexmedetomidine for sedation of non-intubated patients prior to and/or 
during surgical and diagnostic procedures was evaluated in two randomised, double-blind, placebo-
controlled multicentre clinical trials.
-
Study 1 randomised patients undergoing elective surgeries/procedures under monitored 
anaesthesia care and local/regional anaesthesia to receive a loading infusion of dexmedetomidine 
10
either 1 µg/kg (n = 129) or 0.5 µg/kg (n = 134), or placebo (normal saline; n = 63) given over 
10 minutes and followed by a maintenance infusion started at 0.6 µg/kg/h. The maintenance 
infusion of study drug could be titrated from 0.2 µg/kg/h to 1 µg/kg/h. The proportion of patients 
that achieved the targeted sedation level (Observer’s Assessment of Alertness/Sedation Scale ≤ 4) 
without need for rescue midazolam was 54% of the patients receiving dexmedetomidine 1 µg/kg 
and 40% of the patients receiving dexmedetomidine 0.5 µg/kg compared to 3% of patients 
receiving the placebo.The risk difference in proportion of subjects randomised to 
dexmedetomidine 1 μg/kg group and dexmedetomidine 0.5 μg/kg group not requiring rescue 
midazolam was 48% (95% CI: 37%–57%) and 40% (95% CI: 28%–48%), respectively compared 
placebo. The median (range) midazolam rescue dose was 1.5 (0.5–7.0) mg in the
dexmedetomidine1.0 µg/kg group, 2.0 (0.5–8.0) mg in the dexmedetomidine 0.5 µg/kg group, and 
4.0 (0.5–14.0) mg in the placebo group. The difference in means in dose of rescue midazolam in 
dexmedetomidine 1 μg/kg and dexmedetomidine 0.5 μg/kg group compared to placebo was -
3.1 mg (95% CI: -3.8 – -2.5) and -2.7 mg (95% CI: -3.3 – -2.1), respectively favouring 
dexmedetomidine.The median time to first rescue dose was 114 minutes in the dexmedetomidine 
1.0 µg/kg group, 40 minutes in the dexmedetomidine 0.5 µg/kg group, and 20 minutes in the 
placebo group.
Study 2 randomised patients undergoing awake fibreoptic intubation under topical anaesthesia to 
receive a loading infusion of dexmedetomidine 1 µg/kg (n = 55) or placebo (normal saline) 
(n = 50) given over 10 minutes and followed by a fixed maintenance infusion of 0.7 µg/kg/h. To 
maintain a Ramsay Sedation Scale ≥ 2 53% of the patients receiving dexmedetomidine did not 
require midazoloam rescue vs. 14% of patients receiving placebo. The risk difference in 
proportion of subjects randomised to dexmedetomidine not requiring rescue midazolam was 43% 
(95% CI: 23 %–57%) compared placebo. The mean midazolam rescue dose was 1.1 mg in the 
dexmedetomidine group, and 2.8 mg in the placebo group. The difference in means in dose of 
rescue midazolam was -1.8 mg (95% CI: -2.7 – -0.86) favouring dexmedetomidine.
-
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
The pharmacokinetics of dexmedetomidine has been assessed following short term IV administration 
in healthy volunteers and long term infusion in ICU population. 
Distribution
Dexmedetomidine exhibits a two-compartment disposition model. In healthy volunteers it exhibits a 
rapid distribution phase with a central estimate of the distribution half-life (t1/2α) of about 6 minutes. 
The mean estimate of the terminal elimination half-life (t1/2) is approximately 1.9 to 2.5 h (min 1.35, 
max 3.68 h) and the mean estimate of the steady-state volume of distribution (Vss) is approximately 
1.16 to 2.16 l/kg (90 to 151 litres). Plasma clearance (Cl) has a mean estimated value of 0.46 to 
0.73 l/h/kg (35.7 to 51.1 l/h). The mean body weight associated with these Vss and Cl estimates was 
69 kg. Plasma pharmacokinetics of dexmedetomidine is similar in the ICU population following 
infusion >24 h. The estimated pharmacokinetic parameters are: t1/2 approximately 1.5 hours, Vss 
approximately 93 litres and Cl approximately 43 l/h. The pharmacokinetics of dexmedetomidine is 
linear in the dosing range from 0.2 to 1.4 µg/kg/h and it does not accumulate in treatments lasting up 
to 14 days. Dexmedetomidine is 94% bound to plasma proteins. Plasma protein binding is constant 
over the concentration range of 0.85 to 85 ng/ml. Dexmedetomidine binds to both human serum 
albumin and Alpha-1-acid glycoprotein with serum albumin as the major binding protein of 
dexmedetomidine in plasma. 
Biotransformation and Elimination
Dexmedetomidine is eliminated by extensive metabolism in the liver. There are three types of initial 
metabolic reactions; direct N-glucuronidation, direct N-methylation and cytochrome P450 catalysed 
oxidation. The most abundant circulating dexmedetomidine metabolites are two isomeric N-
glucuronides. Metabolite H-1, N-methyl 3-hydroxymethyl dexmedetomidine O-glucuronide, is also a 
major circulating product of dexmedetomidine biotransformation. Cytochrome P-450 catalyses the 
11
formation of two minor circulating metabolites, 3-hydroxymethyl dexmedetomidine produced by 
hydroxylation at the 3-methyl group of dexmedetomidine and H-3 produced by oxidation in the 
imidazole ring. Available data suggest that the formation of the oxidised metabolites is mediated by 
several CYP forms (CYP2A6, CYP1A2, CYP2E1, CYP2D6 and CYP2C19). These metabolites have 
negligible pharmacological activity. 
Following IV administration of radiolabeled dexmedetomidine an average 95% of radioactivity was 
recovered in the urine and 4% in the faeces after nine days. The major urinary metabolites are the two 
isomeric N-glucuronides, which together accounted for approximately 34% of the dose and N-methyl
3-hydroxymethyl dexmedetomidine O-glucuronide that accounted for 14.51% of the dose. The minor 
metabolites dexmedetomidine carboxylic acid, 3-hydroxymethyl dexmedetomidine and its O-
glucuronide individually comprised 1.11 to 7.66% of the dose. Less than 1% of unchanged parent drug 
was recovered in the urine. Approximately 28% of the urinary metabolites are unidentified minor
metabolites. 
Special Populations
No major pharmacokinetic differences have been observed based on gender or age.
Dexmedetomidine plasma protein binding is decreased in subjects with hepatic impairment compared 
with healthy subjects. The mean percentage of unbound dexmedetomidine in plasma ranged from 
8.5% in healthy subjects to 17.9% in subjects with severe hepatic impairment. Subjects with varying 
degrees of hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class A, B, or C) had decreased hepatic clearance of 
dexmedetomidine and prolonged plasma elimination t1/2. The mean plasma clearance values of 
unbound dexmedetomidine for subjects with mild, moderate, and severe hepatic impairment were 
59%, 51% and 32% of those observed in the normal healthy subjects, respectively. The mean t1/2 for 
the subjects with mild, moderate or severe hepatic impairment was prolonged to 3.9, 5.4, and 
7.4 hours, respectively. Although dexmedetomidine is administered to effect, it may be necessary to 
consider initial/maintenance dose reduction in patients with hepatic impairment depending on the 
degree of impairment and the response.
The pharmacokinetics of dexmedetomidine in subjects with severe renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance <30 ml/min) is not altered relative to healthy subjects. 
Data in new-born infants (28–44 weeks gestation) to children 17 years of age are limited. 
Dexmedetomidine half life in children (1 months to 17 years) appears similar to that seen in adults, but 
in new-born infants (under 1 month) it appears higher. In the age groups 1 months to 6 years, body 
weight-adjusted plasma clearance appeared higher but decreased in older children. Body weight-
adjusted plasma clearance in new-born infants (under 1 month) appeared lower (0.9 l/h/kg) than in the 
older groups due to immaturity. The available data is summarised in the following table;
Age
Under 1 month
1 to < 6 months
6 to < 12 months
12 to < 24 months
2 to < 6 years
6 to < 17 years
N
28
14
15
13
26
28
Mean (95% CI)
t1/2 (h)
4.47
(3.81, 5.25)
2.05
(1.59, 2.65)
2.01
(1.81, 2.22)
1.97
(1.62, 2.39)
1.75
(1.57, 1.96)
2.03
(1.78, 2.31)
Cl (l/h/kg)
0.93
(0.76, 1.14)
1.21
(0.99, 1.48)
1.11
(0.94, 1.31)
1.06
(0.87, 1.29)
1.11
(1.00, 1.23)
0.80
(0.69, 0.92)
12
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, single and repeated dose toxicity and genotoxicity.
In the reproductive toxicity studies, dexmedetomidine had no effect on male or female fertility in the 
rat, and no teratogenic effects were observed in the rat or rabbit. In the rabbit study intravenous 
administration of the maximum dose, 96 µg/kg/day, produced exposures that are similar to those 
observed clinically. In the rat, subcutaneous administration at the maximum dose, 200 µg/kg/day, 
caused an increase in embryofetal death and reduced the fetal body weight. These effects were 
associated with clear maternal toxicity. Reduced fetal body weight was noted also in the rat fertility 
study at dose 18 µg/kg/day and was accompanied with delayed ossification at dose 54 µg/kg/day. The 
observed exposure levels in the rat are below the clinical exposure range. 
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Sodium chloride
Water for injections
6.2
Incompatibilities
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6.
Compatibility studies have shown potential for adsorption of dexmedetomidine to some types of 
natural rubber. Although dexmedetomidine is dosed to effect, it is advisable to use components with 
synthetic or coated natural rubber gaskets.
6.3
Shelf life
3 years
After dilution
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 25°C. 
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to the use are the responsibility of the user and 
would not normally be longer than 24 hours at 2° to 8°C, unless dilution has taken place in controlled 
and validated aseptic conditions.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. Keep the 
ampoules or vials in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3
6.5
Nature and contents of container 
2 ml Type I glass ampoules
2, 5 or 10 ml Type I glass vials (with filling volumes of 2, 4 and 10 ml), grey bromobutyl rubber 
closure with fluoropolymer coating
13
Pack sizes
5 x 2 ml ampoules
25 x 2 ml ampoules
5 x 2 ml vials
4 x 4 ml vials
4 x 10 ml vials
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Ampoules and vials are intended for single patient use only.
Preparation of solution
Dexdor can be diluted in glucose 50 mg/ml (5%), Ringers, mannitol or sodium chloride 9 mg/ml
(0.9%) solution for injection to achieve the required concentration of either 4 micrograms/ml or 
8 micrograms/ml prior to administration. Please see below in tabulated form the volumes needed to 
prepare the infusion. 
In case the required concentration is 4 micrograms/ml:
Volume of Dexdor
100 micrograms/ml 
concentrate for solution for 
infusion
2 ml
4 ml
10 ml
20 ml
Volume of diluent
Total volume of infusion
48 ml
96 ml
240 ml
480 ml
50 ml
100 ml
250 ml
500 ml
In case the required concentration is 8 micrograms/ml:
Volume of Dexdor 
100 micrograms/ml 
concentrate for solution for 
infusion
4 ml
8 ml
20 ml
40 ml
Volume of diluent 
Total volume of infusion
46 ml
92 ml
230 ml
460 ml
50 ml
100 ml
250 ml
500 ml
The solution should be shaken gently to mix well.
Dexdor should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration.
14
Dexdor has been shown to be compatible when administered with the following intravenous fluids and
medicinal products:
Lactated Ringers, 5% glucose solution, sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection, 
mannitol 200 mg/ml (20%), thiopental sodium, etomidate, vecuronium bromide, pancuronium 
bromide, succinylcholine, atracurium besylate, mivacurium chloride, rocuronium bromide, 
glycopyrrolate bromide, phenylephrine HCl, atropine sulfate, dopamine, noradrenaline, dobutamine, 
midazolam, morphine sulfate, fentanyl citrate, and a plasma-substitute.
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Orion Corporation
Orionintie 1
FI-02200 Espoo
Finland
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/11/718/001-002, EU/1/11/718/004, EU/1/11/718/006-007
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 16 September 2011
Date of latest renewal: 26 May 2016
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this product is available on the website of the European Medicines Agency 
http://www.ema.europa.eu
15
ANNEX II
A.
B.
  C.
D.
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT
16
A. MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release
Orion Corporation
Orionintie 1
FI-02200 Espoo
Finland
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2).
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION

Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
- Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:
 At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
 Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
17
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
18
A. LABELLING
19
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Dexdor 100 micrograms/ml concentrate for solution for infusion
dexmedetomidine
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each ml of concentrate contains dexmedetomidine hydrochloride equivalent to 100 micrograms 
dexmedetomidine.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Also contains sodium chloride,water for injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Concentrate for solution for infusion
5 x 2 ml ampoules
25 x 2 ml ampoules
5 x 2 ml vials
4 x 4 ml vials
4 x 10 ml vials
200 micrograms/2 ml
400 micrograms/4 ml
1000 micrograms/10 ml
5. METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Intravenous use
Dexdor should be used immediately after dilution.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
20
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Keep the ampoules/vials in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
10.
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11.
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Orion Corporation
Orionintie 1 
FI-02200 Espoo
Finland
12.
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/718/001
EU/1/11/718/002
EU/1/11/718/004
EU/1/11/718/006
EU/1/11/718/007
13.
BATCH NUMBER
Batch
14.
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted
17.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
21
PC {number} 
SN {number} 
NN {number} 
22
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
AMPOULES OR VIALS
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION
Dexdor 100 micrograms/ml sterile concentrate
dexmedetomidine
IV
METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
EXPIRY DATE
2.
3.
EXP 
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Batch
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
200 mcg/ 2 ml
400 mcg/ 4 ml
1000 mcg/ 10 ml
6.
OTHER
23
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
24
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Dexdor 100 micrograms/ml concentrate for solution for infusion
dexmedetomidine
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5. 
6.
What Dexdor is and what it is used for
What you need to know before you are given Dexdor
How to use Dexdor
Possible side effects
How to store Dexdor
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Dexdor is and what it is used for
Dexdor contains an active substance called dexmedetomidine which belongs to a medicine group 
called sedatives. It is used to provide sedation (a state of calm, drowsiness or sleep) for adult patients 
in hospital intensive care settings or awake sedation during different diagnostic or surgical procedures.
2. What you need to know before you are given Dexdor
You must not be given Dexdor
-
-
-
-
if you are allergic to dexmedetomidine or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6)
if you have some disorders of heart rhythm (heart block grade 2 or 3)
if you have very low blood pressure which does not respond to treatment
if you have recently had a stroke or other serious condition affecting blood supply to the brain.
Warnings and precautions
Before you have this medicine, tell your doctor or nurse if any of the following apply as Dexdor 
should be used cautiously:
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
if you have an abnormally slow heart rate (either due to illness or high levels of physical fitness)
as it may increase the risk for cardiac arrest
if you have low blood pressure
if you have low blood volume, for example after bleeding
if you have certain heart disorders
if you are elderly
if you have a neurological disorder (for instance head or spinal cord injury or stroke)
if you have severe liver problems
if you have ever developed a serious fever after some medicines, especially anaesthetics.
This medicine may cause large amount of urine and excessive thirst, contact a doctor if these side
effects occur. See section 4 for more information.
25
An increased mortality risk has been seen for patients 65 years of age and under when using this 
medicine, especially for patients admitted to the intensive care unit for other reasons than after surgery
with a more severe disease condition on admission to the intensive care unit and with a younger age. 
The doctor will decide if this medicine is still suitable for you. The doctor will take into account the 
benefit and risks of this medicine for you, compared to treatment with other sedatives.
Other medicines and Dexdor
Tell your doctor or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines.
The following medicines may enhance the effect of Dexdor:
-
-
-
medicines that help you sleep or cause sedation (e.g. midazolam, propofol)
strong pain medicines (e.g. opioids such as morphine, codeine)
anaesthetic medicines (e.g. sevoflurane, isoflurane).
If you are using medicines which lower your blood pressure and heart rate, co-administration with 
Dexdor may enhance this effect. Dexdor should not be used with medicines that cause temporary 
paralysis.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Dexdor should not be used during pregnancy or breast-feeding unless clearly necessary.
Ask your doctor for advice before having this medicine
Driving and using machines
Dexdor has major impact on the ability to drive and use machines. After you have been given Dexdor 
you must not drive, operate machinery, or work in dangerous situations until the effects are completely 
gone. Ask your doctor when you can start doing these activities again and when you can go back to 
this kind of work.
Excipients
Dexdor contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per ml, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to use Dexdor
Hospital intensive care
Dexdor is administered to you by a doctor or nurse in hospital intensive care.
Procedural sedation/awake sedation
Dexdor is administered to you by a doctor or a nurse prior to and/or during diagnostic or surgical 
procedures requiring sedation, i.e. procedural/awake sedation.
Your doctor will decide on a suitable dose for you. The amount of Dexdor depends on your age, size, 
general condition of health, the level of sedation needed and how you respond to the medicine. Your 
doctor may change your dose if needed and will monitor your heart and blood pressure during the 
treatment. 
Dexdor is diluted and it is given to you as an infusion (drip) into your veins.
26
After sedation/wake-up
-
-
-
The doctor will keep you under medical supervision for some hours after the sedation to make 
sure that you feel well.
You should not go home unaccompanied.
Medicines to help you sleep, cause sedation or strong painkillers may not be appropriate for 
some time after you have been given Dexdor. Talk to your doctor about the use of these 
medicines and about the use of alcohol. 
If you have been given more Dexdor than you should
If you are given too much Dexdor, your blood pressure may go up or down, your heartbeat may slow 
down, you may breathe more slowly and you may feel more drowsy. Your doctor will know how to 
treat you based on your condition.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people):
-
-
-
slow heart rate
low or high blood pressure
change in breathing pattern or stopping breathing.
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
chest pain or heart attack
fast heart rate
low or high blood sugar
nausea, vomiting or dry mouth
restlessness 
high temperature
symptoms after stopping the medicine.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people):
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
reduced heart function, cardiac arrest
swelling of the stomach
thirst
a condition where there is too much acid in the body
low albumin level in blood
shortness of breath
hallucinations
the medicine is not effective enough.
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data):
-
large amount of urine and excessive thirst – may be symptoms of a hormonal disorder called 
diabetes insipidus. Contact a doctor if these occur.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine.
27
5.
How to store Dexdor
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton after EXP.
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions. Keep the ampoules or vials 
in the outer carton in order to protect from light.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Dexdor contains 
-
-
The active substance is dexmedetomidine. Each ml of concentrate contains dexmedetomidine 
hydrochloride equivalent to 100 micrograms dexmedetomidine.
The other ingredients are sodium chloride and water for injections.
Each 2 ml ampoule contains 200 micrograms of dexmedetomidine (as hydrochloride).
Each 2 ml vial contains 200 micrograms of dexmedetomidine (as hydrochloride).
Each 4 ml vial contains 400 micrograms of dexmedetomidine (as hydrochloride).
Each 10 ml vial contains 1000 micrograms of dexmedetomidine (as hydrochloride).
The concentration of the final solution after dilution should be either 4 micrograms/ml or 
8 micrograms/ml.
What Dexdor looks like and contents of the pack
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate).
The concentrate is a clear, colourless solution.
Containers
2 ml glass ampoules
2, 5 or 10 ml glass vials
Pack sizes
5 x 2 ml ampoules
25 x 2 ml ampoules
5 x 2 ml vials
4 x 4 ml vials
4 x 10 ml vials
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Orion Corporation
Orionintie 1
FI-02200 Espoo
Finland
Manufacturer
Orion Corporation Orion Pharma
Orionintie 1 
FI-02200 Espoo
28
Finland
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Orion Pharma BVBA/SPRL
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)15 64 10 20
Nederland
Orion Pharma BVBA/SPRL
Tel: +32 (0)15 64 10 20
Česká republika
Orion Pharma s.r.o.
Tel: +420 234 703 305
Deutschland 
Österreich
Orion Pharma GmbH
Tel: + 49 40 899 6890
Ελλάδα
Orion Pharma Hellas M.E.Π.E
Τηλ: + 30 210 980 3355
France
Orion Pharma 
Tél: +33 (0) 1 85 18 00 00
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Simi: +354 535 7000
Κύπρος
Lifepharma (ZAM) Ltd
Τηλ.: +357 22056300
Lietuva
UAB Orion Pharma
Tel: +370 5 276 9499
Norge
Orion Pharma AS
Tlf: + 47 4000 4210
Portugal
Orionfin Unipessoal Lda
Tel: + 351 21 154 68 20
Danmark
Orion Pharma A/S
Tlf: +45 8614 00 00
Eesti
Orion Pharma Eesti Oü
Tel: +372 6 644 550
España
Orion Pharma S.L.
Tel: + 34 91 599 86 01
Ireland
Orion Pharma (Ireland) Ltd.
Tel: + 353 1 428 7777
Italia
Orion Pharma S.r.l.
Tel: + 39 02 67876111
Latvija
Orion Corporation
Orion Pharma pārstāvniecība
Tel: +371 20028332
Magyarország
Orion Pharma Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 239 9095
Polska
Orion Pharma Poland Sp. z.o.o.
Tel.: + 48 22 8 333 177
Slovenija
Orion Pharma d.o.o.
Tel: +386 (0) 1 600 8015
Suomi/Finland
Orion Corporation
Puh/Tel: + 358 10 4261
България
Orion Pharma Poland Sp. z.o.o.
Hrvatska
PHOENIX Farmacija d.o.o.
29
Тел.: + 48 22 8 333 177
Tel: +385 1 6370450
Malta
Orion Corporation
Tel: + 358 10 4261
Slovenská republika
Orion Pharma s.r.o.
Tel: +420 234 703 305
România
Orion Corporation
Tel: + 358 10 4261
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland):
Orion Pharma (Ireland) Ltd.
Tel: +353 1 428 7777
Sverige
Orion Pharma AB
Tel: + 46 8 623 6440
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only:
Dexdor 100 micrograms/ml concentrate for solution for infusion
Method of administration 
Dexdor should be administered by healthcare professionals skilled in the management of patients 
requiring intensive care or in the anaesthetic management of patients in the operating room. It must be 
administered only as a diluted intravenous infusion using a controlled infusion device
Preparation of solution
Dexdor can be diluted in glucose 50 mg/ml (5%), Ringers, mannitol or sodium chloride 9 mg/ml 
(0.9%) solution for injection to achieve the required concentration of either 4 micrograms/ml or 8 
micrograms/ml prior to administration. Please see below in tabulated form the volumes needed to 
prepare the infusion. 
In the case the required concentration is 4 micrograms/ml:
Volume of Dexdor 
100 micrograms/ml 
concentrate for solution for 
infusion
2 ml
4 ml
10 ml
20 ml
Volume of diluent 
Total volume of infusion
48 ml
96 ml
240 ml
480 ml
50 ml
100 ml
250 ml
500 ml
In the case the required concentration is 8 micrograms/ml:
30
Volume of Dexdor
100 micrograms/ml 
concentrate for solution for 
infusion
4 ml
8 ml
20 ml
40 ml
Volume of diluent 
Total volume of infusion
46 ml
92 ml
230 ml
460 ml
50 ml
100 ml
250 ml
500 ml
The solution should be shaken gently to mix well.
Dexdor should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. 
Dexdor has been shown to be compatible when administered with the following intravenous fluids and 
medicinal products:
Lactated Ringers, 5% glucose solution, sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection, 
mannitol 200 mg/ml (20%), thiopental sodium, etomidate, vecuronium bromide, pancuronium 
bromide, succinylcholine, atracurium besylate, mivacurium chloride, rocuronium bromide, 
glycopyrrolate bromide, phenylephrine HCl, atropine sulfate, dopamine, noradrenaline, dobutamine, 
midazolam, morphine sulfate, fentanyl citrate, and a plasma-substitute.
Compatibility studies have shown potential for adsorption of dexmedetomidine to some types of 
natural rubber. Although dexmedetomidine is dosed to effect, it is advisable to use components with 
synthetic or coated natural rubber gaskets.
Shelf life
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 25°C.
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to the use are the responsibility of the user and 
would not normally be longer than 24 hours at 2° to 8°C, unless dilution has taken place in controlled 
and validated aseptic conditions.
31
