EMA/648646/2011  
EMEA/H/C/002268 
Dexdor (dexmedetomidine) 
An overview of Dexdor and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Dexdor and what is it used for? 
Dexdor is a medicine used to sedate (calm or make sleepy) adult patients in the following settings: 
• 
• 
in hospital intensive care units to bring about a light level of sedation in which the patient can still 
respond to verbal stimulation (corresponding to a score of between 0 and -3 on the Richmond 
Agitation-Sedation Scale); 
before or during diagnostic or surgical procedures where the patient remains awake (awake 
sedation). 
Dexdor contains the active substance dexmedetomidine.  
How is Dexdor used? 
Dexdor can only be obtained with a prescription and should be given by a healthcare professional 
skilled in managing patients in intensive care or giving anaesthetic during diagnostic or surgical 
procedures.  
Dexdor is given by infusion (drip) into a vein using a controlled infusion device.  
When Dexdor is used in intensive care, the dose is adjusted to achieve the desired level of sedation. If 
sedation with the maximum dose is not adequate, the patient can be switched to other medicines. 
When Dexdor is used for awake sedation in diagnostic or surgical procedures, the starting dose 
depends on the type of procedure and the dose is adjusted to achieve the desired effect. In some 
cases, the patient is also given a local anaesthetic, painkillers and other sedative medicines. The 
patient’s blood pressure, heart rate, breathing and oxygen levels should be monitored closely during 
the procedure. 
Care should be taken when using Dexdor in patients with reduced liver function and the dose may be 
reduced. 
For more information about using Dexdor, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact                                          
  An agency of the European Union    
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Dexdor work? 
The active substance in Dexdor, dexmedetomidine, is a selective alpha-2 receptor agonist. It works by 
blocking receptors in the brain called alpha-2 receptors and reduces the activity of the sympathetic 
nervous system which is involved in controlling anxiety, arousal and sleep as well as blood pressure 
and heart rate. By reducing the activity of the sympathetic nervous system, dexmedetomidine helps to 
make patients calm or sleepy. 
What benefits of Dexdor have been shown in studies? 
Sedation in intensive care 
Dexdor was compared with other sedative medicines (propofol or midazolam) in two main studies 
involving 1,000 patients who required sedation in intensive care units. The main measures of 
effectiveness were how well the medicines maintained the required sedation level and the time 
patients needed to spend on a mechanical ventilator (a machine that ‘breathes’ for the patient).   
In the first study, 65% of patients given Dexdor maintained the required level of sedation compared 
with 65% of those receiving propofol. In the second study, 61% of patients given Dexdor maintained 
the required level of sedation compared with 57% of those receiving midazolam. The studies also 
showed that Dexdor reduced the duration of mechanical ventilation. 
Awake sedation during diagnostic or surgical procedures 
Dexdor was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in two main studies involving 431 patients. 
A higher proportion of patients treated with Dexdor did not require additional treatment with 
midazolam (another sedative medicine) to maintain the desired sedation level. 
The first study involved patients undergoing surgery or a procedure under an anaesthetic block (where 
sensation to a part of the body is blocked). Patients in the Dexdor group received either 0.5 or 
1 microgram/kg bodyweight. Midazolam treatment was not required in 40% of patients receiving the 
lower dose of Dexdor and 54% of those receiving the higher dose compared with 3% of patients 
receiving placebo.  
The second study involved patients undergoing a fibreoptic intubation (inserting a breathing tube 
through the nose or the mouth into the windpipe) while patients are awake. Midazolam treatment was 
not required in 53% of patients receiving Dexdor compared with 14% receiving placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Dexdor? 
The most common side effects with Dexdor (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) when it is 
used in intensive care are low or high blood pressure and bradycardia (slow heart rate). The most 
common side effects when it is used for awake sedation are low blood pressure, respiratory depression 
(reduced ability to breathe) and bradycardia. 
Dexdor must not be used in patients with advanced heart block (a type of heart rhythm disorder), 
patients with uncontrolled low blood pressure and in patients with conditions such as stroke that affect 
the blood supply to the brain. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Dexdor, see the package leaflet. 
Dexdor (dexmedetomidine)  
EMA/478480/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Why is Dexdor authorised in the EU? 
The studies in intensive care showed that Dexdor compared well with other sedatives. It is effective  
for awake sedation during procedures but sometimes an additional sedative medicine as well as 
Dexdor may be needed. Dexdor is an additional alternative medicine for achieving lighter levels of 
sedation in suitable patients. As dexmedetomidine has been in use in several countries as a sedative 
agent, its risks are well known and are considered to be manageable. The European Medicines Agency 
therefore decided that Dexdor’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in 
the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Dexdor? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Dexdor have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Dexdor is continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Dexdor are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Dexdor 
Dexdor received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 16 September 2011. 
Further information on Dexdor can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports.  
This overview was last updated in 08-2018. 
Dexdor (dexmedetomidine)  
EMA/478480/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
