13 December 2012 
EMA/145296/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Dexdor  
International non-proprietary name: DEXMEDETOMIDINE 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002268/II/0003 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 7455 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
1.   Scientific discussion 
1.1.  Introduction 
Dexmedetomidine  (Dexdor)  is  a  selective  alpha-2  receptor  agonist  with  a  broad  range  of 
pharmacological  properties.  It  has  a  sympatholytic  effect  through  decrease  of  the  release  of 
noradrenaline  in  sympathetic  nerve  endings.  The  sedative  effects  are  mediated  through  decreased 
firing  of  locus  coeruleus,  the  predominant  noradrenergic  nucleus,  situated  in  the  brainstem. 
Dexmedetomidine  has  analgesic  and  anaesthetic/analgesic-sparing  effects.  The  cardiovascular  effects 
depend on the dose; with lower infusion rates the central effects dominate leading to decrease in heart 
rate  and  blood  pressure.  With  higher  doses,  peripheral  vasoconstricting  effects  prevail  leading  to  an 
increase  in  systemic  vascular  resistance  and  blood  pressure,  while  the  bradycardic  effect  is  further 
emphasised. Dexmedetomidine is relatively free from respiratory depressive effects.  
Dexdor  is  indicated  for  the  sedation  of  adult  ICU  (Intensive  Care  Unit)  patients  requiring  a  sedation 
level not deeper than arousal in response to verbal stimulation (corresponding to Richmond Agitation-
Sedation Scale (RASS) 0 to -3). It is presented as 100 μg /ml concentrate for solution for infusion. The 
recommended  dose  is  an  initial  infusion  rate  of  0.7 μg  /kg/h  which  may  then  be  adjusted  stepwise 
within the dose range 0.2 to 1.4 μg /kg/h in order to achieve the desired level of sedation. 
This variation refers to an update of sections 4.2, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC to revise the paediatric 
information based  on  the  results  of  new  paediatric  studies  submitted  in  accordance  with  article  46  of 
the  Paediatric  Regulation.  Linguistic  changes  are  made  in  the  following  countries:  Greece,  France, 
Italy, Czech Republic. 
1.2.  Clinical aspects 
The  limited  paediatric  information  reflected  in  the  current  SmPC  (sections  4.2,  4.8,  5.1  and  5.2)  is 
based on the following studies, previously submitted at the time of the initial marketing authorisation 
(MAA):  
- W98-266: a pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) study in 36 subjects aged 2-12 years who 
received 2- 6 μg/kg/hr dexmedetomidine for 10 minutes pre-operatively; 
- 2004-5-3770: a PK/PD study in 38 subjects aged 1 month to 2 years who received a loading dose 
then maintenance doses of dexmedetomidine 0.25- 0.75 μg/kg/hr for up to 24 hours in the paediatric 
ICU;  
- DEX-08-01: a phase II study of safety and efficacy in 59 ICU subjects aged between 2 and 17 years 
who received dexmedetomidine 0.2-2 μg/kg/hr (plus loading dose) for up to 24 hours. 
It is known from the previously submitted data that dexmedetomidine exposure in children 2.3 to 11.5 
years of age appeared to be somewhat lower than in adults receiving the same body weight-adjusted 
regimen  as  a  result  of  higher  body  weight-adjusted  clearance in  children.  In Study  W98-266  a  single 
i.v.  dose  of  dexmedetomidine  was  administered  to  36  children  across  three  dosing  groups  for  10 
minutes:  2.0  µg/kg/h  Group  I;  4.0  µg/kg/h  Group  II;  and  6.0  µg/kg/h  Group  III.  Pharmacokinetic 
results are presented in Table 1: 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 2/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Pharmacokinetic results – Study W98-266 
However,  data  from  studies  with  children  less  than  2  years  are  not  consistent.  In  one  study  where 
dexmedetomidine  was  administered  to  post-operative,  cardiac  surgical  infants  (aged  1  month  to  2 
years)  no  apparent  change  in  clearance  and  weight-adjusted  clearance  across  the  age  range  was 
observed (Study 2004-5-3770). In that study dexmedetomidine body weight-adjusted clearance values 
in  infants  were  also  higher  than  those  reported  in  adults.  Data  from  a  third  study  suggests  that 
children  younger  than  one  year  of  age  might  have  lower  bodyweight-adjusted  clearances  when 
compared to older children and adults (Potts AL et al., 2009, Potts AL et al., 2008) implying that higher 
steady-state dexmedetomidine plasma concentrations would be predicted when dosing in proportion to 
bodyweight. 
Within  this  variation  application,  3  new  paediatric  studies  are  being  submitted  in  accordance  with 
article 46 of the Paediatric Regulation and are as follows: 
- DEX-11-01: A PK/PD study in 5 paediatric subjects aged 12-24 months, treated at 2 dose levels up 
to 0.75 μg/kg/hr for up to 24 hours in the ICU. 
-  DEX-09-08:  A  PK/PD  study  in  neonates  in  the  ICU  patients.  36  patients  were  enrolled  from  28-44 
weeks gestational age to receive a loading dose then dexmedetomidine 0.05-0.2 μg/kg/hr for up to 24 
hours; 
- DEX-08-05: A phase III study of efficacy and safety of dexmedetomidine in 175 subjects in the ICU 
aged  1  month  to  17  years,  who  received  an  optional  loading  dose  then  dexmedetomidine  0.2-1.4 
μg/kg/hr for up to 24 hours; 
The  CHMP  also  noted  that  the  remaining  paediatric  data  to  be  submitted  relate  to  the  final  Pre-term 
group  (6  subjects)  from  the  DEX-09-08  study  which  will  now  be  collected  as  a  separate  study.  This 
study is in the set-up phase and results are not expected before the end of 2012. 
1.2.1.  Study DEX-11-01 
This  was  a  phase  II,  randomized,  open-label,  single  centre,  pharmacokinetic  and  pharmacodynamic 
study of dexmedetomidine in paediatric subjects aged 12 months to < 24 months. The objectives were: 
1)  To  define  the  pharmacokinetic  (PK)  profile  of  dexmedetomidine  (DEX)  administered  as  an 
intravenous (IV) loading dose followed by a continuous IV infusion in paediatric subjects; 2) To define 
the pharmacodynamic (PD) profile of DEX administered as an IV loading dose followed by a continuous 
IV infusion in paediatric subjects 
The study design is summarised in Figure 1. 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 3/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 
1.2.1.1.  Methodology 
Study participants 
Inclusion criteria 
These  were  as  follows:  1)  Initially  intubated  and  mechanically  ventilated  paediatric  subjects  (≥12 
months    to  <24  months)  in  an  intensive  care  setting.  The  subject  must  have  been  mechanically 
ventilated prior to and during the commencement of study drug; 2) Anticipated to require a minimum 
of  6  hours  of  continuous  IV  sedation  and  3)  Subject  had  adequate  renal  function,  defined  as  serum 
creatinine ≤ 1.0 mg/dL 
Exclusion criteria 
These were as follows: 1) Paediatric subjects with neurological conditions that prohibited an evaluation 
of  sedation  (e.g  diminished  consciousness  from  increased  intracranial  pressure,  extensive  brain 
surgery  requiring  intracranial  pressure  monitor),  diminished  cognitive  function  per  investigator 
discretion;  subjects  with  immobility  from  neuromuscular  disease  or  continuous  infusion  of 
neuromuscular    blocking  (NMB)  agents);  2)  Subjects  with  second  degree  or  third  degree  heart  block 
unless  the  subject  had  a  permanent  pacemaker  or  pacing  wires  were  in  situ;  3)  Subjects  who  had 
hepatic  impairment  as  defined  by  a  serum  glutamic-pyruvic  transaminase  (SGPT)/  alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT) > 90 U/L at the time of screening;  4) Subjects who had hypotension, based 
on  repeat  assessments  within  15  minutes  preceding  the  start  of  DEX,  defined  as  Systolic  Blood 
Pressure  (SBP)  <  70  mmHg;  5)  Pre-existing  bradycardia  based  on  repeated  assessments  within  15 
minutes preceding the start of DEX, defined as Heart rate (HR) < 70 bpm; 6) Subjects who had acute 
thermal burns involving more than 15% total body surface area; 7) Subjects who had a known allergy 
to DEX, MDZ or fentanyl; 8) Subjects who had received DEX within 15 hours prior to the start of study 
drug; 9) Subjects with a life expectancy that was < 72 hours; 10) Subjects who were expected to have 
hemodialysis (continuous hemofiltration), peritoneal dialysis, or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation 
treatments within 48 hours prior to the start of DEX or during the duration of the study; 11) Subjects 
who  had  been  treated  with  alpha-2  agonists/antagonists  within  2  weeks  ;  12)  Subjects  with  a  spinal 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 4/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cord  injury  above  T5;  13)  Subjects  who  had  received  another  investigational  drug  as  part  of  an 
investigational  drug  study  within  the  past  30  days;  and  14)  Subjects  who,  in  the  opinion  of  the 
investigator,  might  not  have  been  able  to  comply  with  the  safety  monitoring  requirements  of  this 
clinical study. 
Treatments 
Following completion of screening procedures, the DEX infusion began after discontinuation of all other 
sedative  agents  and  after  the  subject  had  attained  a  University  of  Michigan  Sedation  Scale  (UMSS) 
score  ≤  4.  Subjects  were  randomly  assigned  into  1  of  2  dose  levels:  dose  level  1  consisted  of  a  0.7 
mcg/kg  loading  dose  immediately  followed  by  a  0.5  mcg/kg/hr  maintenance  infusion;  dose  level  2 
consisted of a 1 mcg/kg loading dose immediately followed by a 0.75 mcg/kg/hr maintenance infusion. 
The DEX infusion (10 – minute loading dose and continuous fixed maintenance dose) continued for a 
minimum of 6 hours but did not exceed 24 hours, including the loading dose time. Titration of dosing 
was not allowed.  
If  the  subject  was  not  adequately  sedated  as  defined  by  a  UMSS  score  of  2  to  4;  rescue  medication 
(midazolam:  MDZ)  was  administered  as  needed  for  sedation  during  DEX  administration  based  on 
results of the UMSS scale and investigator judgment. Similarly rescue opiate analgesia, consisting of IV 
fentanyl was administered, based on the judgment of the investigator or designee, or when the FLACC 
(Faces, Legs, Activity, Cry and Consolability) score was > 4. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Pharmacokinetics 
The PK parameters included: AUC (area under the plasma concentration-time curve), Cmax (observed 
peak  plasma  concentration),  CL  (plasma  clearance),  t1/2  (terminal  half-life),  Vd  (volume  of 
distribution). Venous blood samples of 1ml were collected at the following timepoints: no more than 30 
minutes  prior  to  start  of  the  loading  dose;  within  5  minutes  before  finishing  the  loading  dose;  30 
minutes,  1,  2  and  4-6  hours  after  start  of  maintenance  infusion;  within  30  minutes  prior  to  end  of 
maintenance  infusion  (must  be  within  24  hours  of  start  of      maintenance  infusion);  10  minutes  after 
end of maintenance infusion, and 30 minutes, 1, 2, 4, and 10 hours after end of maintenance infusion. 
Pharmacodynamics 
1)  Whenever  possible,  the  same  investigator  or  designee  obtained  UMSS  scores  according  to  the 
following  schedule:  just  prior  to  loading  dose,  and  then  at  5  and  10  minutes  during  loading  dose;  at 
the start of maintenance of infusion, and at 5, 10, 15, 30, and 60 minutes for the first hour; every 4 
hours thereafter during the remainder of the maintenance infusion; within 5 minutes of obtaining each 
PK  sample;  if  rescue  medication  was  given,  UMSS  measurements  were  obtained  before  and  within  5 
minutes after any MDZ rescue administration during DEX infusion period. 
2)  The pain assessments were collected according to the following schedule: immediately prior to the 
loading  dose;  hourly  during  the  maintenance  infusion;  within  5  minutes  after  any  fentanyl  bolus 
administered  for  pain  during  DEX  infusion  or  every  4  hours  if  receiving  a  continuous  infusion  of 
fentanyl. If on a continuous infusion of fentanyl, and the drug was titrated, FLACC assessments were 
collected within 5 minutes prior to and within 5 minutes following titration. 
Statistical Methods 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 5/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The full evaluable (FE) population consisted of all subjects who received study drug for at least 5 hours 
with adequate PK samples. The safety evaluable (SE) population consisted of all subjects who received 
any amount of study drug. It was stated that descriptive statistics only were planned for all analyses, 
both PK and PD, because of the small sample size (only 3 subjects per dose), although non-significant 
p-values were supplied for the analysis of time to successful extubation and time to rescue medication 
(using  the  log-rank  and  Wilcoxon  tests).  The  choice  of  sample  size  was  not  based  on  statistical 
considerations. 
1.2.1.2.  Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
A  total  of  5  subjects  were  randomized  at  one  site  in  the  United  States  (US).  Two  subjects  were 
randomized to dose level 1 and 3 subjects to dose level 2. There were no drop-outs and the evaluable 
population was the same as the safety population.  Two female and three male patients were enrolled. 
Four subjects were white and 1 subject declined specification of race. One female was randomised to 
each dose group. One boy was randomised to the lower dose group and two to the higher group.   
Patient characteristics 
The mean age was 17.30 months (range 14.60 – 21.20). The mean height and weight were similar for 
dose levels 1 and 2 (73.75 and 76.17 cm; 10.04 and 10.50 kg, respectively). The height ranged from 
72.5cm  to  82.0cm  and  weight  8.9kg  to  13.5kg.    The  most  common  medical  history  included 
cardiovascular  and  respiratory  disease  in  all  5  subjects.  Four  of  the  five  subjects  had  gastrointestinal 
conditions. All subjects were post-surgery. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Table 2. pharmacokinetic results 
Pharmacodynamics  
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 6/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Two subjects (40.0%) received rescue MDZ for sedation during DEX infusion: 1 (50%) subject in dose 
level 1 and 1 (33.3%) in dose level 2. Three subjects (60.0%) received rescue fentanyl for analgesia 
during  DEX  infusion:  1  (50.0%)  subject  in  dose  level  1  and  2 (66.7%).  subjects  in  dose  level  2.    No 
observations were made regarding the time to first dose of rescue medication due to the small number 
of subjects. 
For dose levels 1 and 2, the median absolute time spent in the UMSS score between 2 and 4 (target 
level of sedation) was 3.6 hours (58.9% of the time) and 5.9 hours (95.1% of the time), respectively. 
The  median  absolute  time  spent  with  a  total  UMSS  score  <  2  for  dose  levels  1  and  2  was  2.5  hours 
(41.1%  of  the  time)  and  0.3  hours  (4.9%),  respectively.    The  median  total  FLACC  score  was  1.6  in 
dose level 1 and 4.4 in dose level 2, and 3.2 for  both dose levels combined.  However, these results 
were  confounded  by  administration  of  concomitant  sedative/analgesic  drugs  during  DEX  infusion  as 
detailed above. 
Safety  
Only  1  of  the  5  subjects  (20.0%)  experienced  treatment  emergent  adverse  events  (TEAEs).  These 
events were mild pyrexia and mild atelectasis in a dose level 2 subject; both events were considered 
not  related  to  DEX.  There  were  no  treatment-emergent  SAEs  leading  to  death,  no  other  treatment-
emergent SAEs, and no TEAEs that led to DEX discontinuation. 
1.2.2.  Study DEX-09-08 
This  study  was  a  Phase  II/III,  open  label,  multi-centre,  study  of  the  safety,  efficacy  and  PK  of 
dexmedetomidine in neonates aged ≥ 28 weeks through ≤ 44 weeks gestational age.  The objective 
was to characterize the safety, efficacy, and pharmacokinetics (PK) of dexmedetomidine administered 
as an IV loading dose followed by a continuous IV infusion in neonates. 
The study design is summarised in Figure 2. 
Figure 2 
This multicenter study was conducted at 18 sites in the US. 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 7/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2.2.1.  Methodology 
Study participants 
Inclusion criteria 
These  were  as  follows:  1)  Initially  intubated  and  mechanically  ventilated  pediatric  subjects  in  an 
intensive  care  setting  anticipated  to  require  a  minimum  of  6  hours  of  continuous  IV  sedation;  2)  The 
ability to complete all PK sampling and blood draws; 3) Age: subjects had to fit into 1 of the following 
age  ranges  at  screening:  preterm  neonates  ≥  28  weeks  through  <  36  weeks,  gestational  age;  this 
constituted treatment age group I; term neonates born at ≥ 36 weeks through ≤ 44 weeks gestational 
age; this constituted treatment age group II (gestation age was calculated as follows: the time elapsed 
between the first day of the last menstrual period and the day of enrolment), and 4) Weight: subject’s 
weight at the time of enrollment had to be > 1000 g. 
Exclusion criteria 
These were as follows: 1) Neonate subjects with neurological conditions that prohibited an evaluation 
of  sedation  (e.g  diminished  consciousness  from  increased  intracranial  pressure,  the  presence  of 
catastrophic  brain  injury  or  other  severe  mental  disorders  that  would  make  responses  to  sedatives 
unpredictable  and/or  measurement  of  the  N-PASS  unreliable;  subjects  with  immobility  from 
neuromuscular disease or continuous infusion of NMB agents); 2) Subjects with second degree or third 
degree  heart  block  unless  subject  had  a  pacemaker  or  pacing  wires  were  in  situ;  3)  HR  <  120  bpm 
prior  to  the  initiation  of  DEX.;  4)  Exposure  to  any  investigational  drug  within  30  days  prior  to  DEX 
administration;  5)  Previous  exposure  to  DEX  as  part  of  an  investigational  study;  6)    In  subjects  that 
were ex-utero for less than 72 hours, a maternal history of poly-substance drug abuse, based upon the 
investigator’s  clinical  judgment;  7)  At  the  discretion  of  the  investigator,  subjects  in  whom  the  risk  of 
DEX  treatment  was  expected  to  exceed  its  benefits;  8)  Subjects  who  had  a  known  allergy  or 
contraindication  to  fentanyl,  morphine,  MDZ,  DEX,  or  other  alpha-2  agonists;  9)  Requirement  for 
medications other than DEX, MDZ, morphine, or fentanyl for sedation and pain control; 10) Screening 
ALT levels > 115 U/L. 
Treatment 
Subjects  were  sequentially  assigned  a  loading  dose  (mcg/kg)  and  continuous  infusion  dose 
(mcg/kg/hr)  as  outlined  in  Table  3.  Subjects  were  administered  a  10  to  20-minute  loading  dose 
followed by a maintenance dose of a minimum of 6 hours up to a maximum of 24 hours. At baseline, 
subjects  were  assigned  into  either  age  group  I  or  age  group  II  based  on  gestational  age;  weight 
criteria  were  also  used  to  determine  PK  sampling.  Both  groups  could  enrol  simultaneously;  however, 
within  each  group,  the  next  dose  level  could  not  begin  to  enrol  until  all  subjects  had  completed  the 
previous dose level and the Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) had approved enrolment to the next 
level. 
Table 3 Treatment assignment 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 8/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rescue  medication  was  administered  as  needed  for  sedation  (MDZ)  and  pain  (fentanyl  or  morphine), 
during DEX administration based on results of the neonatal- Pain, Agitation, Sedation Scale (N-PASS). 
Rescue  therapy  was  indicated  when  the  total  N-PASS  score  was  >  3  or  by  clinical  judgment  and 
whether  the  subject  was  intubated  or  extubated  and  the  selection  of  sedative  rescue  or  analgesic 
rescue was at the discretion of the Investigator. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Pharmacokinetics 
The PK parameters were the same as in study DEX-11-01. Arterial, venous, or capillary blood samples 
(0.15 mL each) for PK analysis were obtained at 6 or 7 protocol-designated times for subjects in age 
group I depending upon weight (≥ 28 weeks through < 36 weeks gestational age) and at 7 designated 
times for subjects in age group II (≥ 36 weeks through ≤ 44 weeks gestational age). 
Efficacy 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  for  the  study  was  the  number  of  subjects  requiring  any  rescue 
medication (MDZ) for sedation during DEX infusion.  
Secondary  efficacy  endpoints  included:  incidence  of  rescue  medication  use  for  analgesia  during  DEX 
infusion; (a) The total amount and (b) the weight adjusted total amount (per kg) of rescue medication 
MDZ, morphine or fentanyl given for sedation and analgesia during DEX infusion; change from baseline 
in vital signs and oxygenation (SpO2) measures during DEX infusion; time spent with a total N-PASS 
score > 3 and ≤ 3 during DEX infusion and time to extubation was explored in DEX-exposed subjects. 
Statistical methods 
The intent-to-treat (ITT) population included all patients who met all of the inclusion criteria, none of 
the exclusion criteria. The safety evaluable (SE) population included all patients who received DEX. The 
efficacy evaluable (EE) population was all subjects who received DEX for at least 6 hours. This was the 
primary population for the efficacy analysis. The PK evaluable population included all patients in the EE 
population  with  adequate  DEX  concentration  data.  This  was  the  primary  population  for  the  PK 
analysis.The  primary  analysis,  the  percentage  of  subjects  that  required  MDZ  for  sedation  during  DEX 
infusion, was summarised using descriptive statistics. All other endpoints were also summarised using 
summary  statistics.  Statistical  analyses  comparing  age  groups  and  dose  levels  were  planned  in  the 
protocol for the final analysis, but in the end the study was terminated early before the full amount of 
patients in age group I were recruited and no formal statistical analysis was conducted. 
The sample size was planned based on a pairwise comparison between the high and low dose groups. 
It was expected that 90% of subjects on the lowest dose would require rescue medication for sedation 
and  45%  in  the  highest  dose  group.  Thus  with  14  patients  in  each  dose  group  there  would  be  72% 
power to detect a difference, assuming a 1-sided test at the 5% level. 
1.2.2.2.  Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
Nine sites enrolled 30 subjects for the interim analysis. Data from a further 6 subjects of age group I, 
dose level 2 were collected after the data cut off of subjects enrolled for the interim analyses and were 
included in an addendum report. 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 9/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The study was officially discontinued early on 17 August 2011 for reasons unrelated to safety. A total 
of 36 subjects have been evaluated out of a total of 42 originally planned. The 6 subjects planned to be 
enrolled  and  analyzed  for  dose  level  3  (0.2  mcg/kg  loading  dose  and  0.2  mcg/kg/hr  maintenance 
dosing) for age group I (ages ≥ 28 weeks through < 36 weeks gestational age) were not enrolled or 
evaluated. See Table 4. 
Table 4. Subjects Enrollment  
The  data  sets  analyzed  for  these  interim  analyses  included  EP,  EE,  ITT,  SE,  and  PK  Evaluable 
Populations as summarized in Table 5 (the EE, ITT, and SE Populations are identical): 
Table 5 Number analysed 
Patient characteristics 
The  mean  gestational  age  in  weeks  for  age  group  I  was  30.3  weeks;  for  age  group  II  it  was  38.7 
weeks.  For  all  30  subjects  in  both  age  groups  I  and  II  combined,  the  mean  gestational  age  in  weeks 
was 37.0 weeks. Predominantly males were enrolled in this study; however, females were predominant 
in age group I only. The majority of neonates were Caucasian. The mean weight for age group I was 
1.38  kg  and  for  age  group  II,  3.26  kg,  and  for  all  30  subjects  in  both  age  groups  I  and  II  combined 
2.88 kg. A further 6 patients (3 male, 3 female) were recruited after the interim analysis with a mean 
gestational age of 32.5 weeks. Mean height was 42.75cm and weight 1.71kg. The subjects were all in 
age group I, dose level 2. 
In  age  group  I,  cardiopulmonary  disease  affected  5  subjects  (83.3%).  Congenital  heart  disease  was 
present  in  1/6  subjects  (16.6%).  In  addition,  all  subjects  in  this  age  group  had  prematurity-induced 
respiratory disorders (n=6, 100.0%) and one-half of these had hematologic disease (n=3; 50.0%). No 
subjects in this age group were post-surgical. 
Within age group II, the 3 dose levels had a variety of medical history, more subjects had congenital 
heart  disease  and  more  subjects  were  post-operative  cardiac  surgery,  particularly  in  dose  level  3.  In 
age  group  II,  congenital  heart  disease  was  present  in  17/24  subjects  (70.8%)  as  follows:  7  of  8 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 10/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
subjects in dose level 1, 3 of 8 subjects in dose level 2, and 7of 8 subjects in dose level 3. The other 
most  common  body  systems  in  this  age  group  were  gastrointestinal  disease  (n=10,  41.7%)  and 
respiratory  disease  (n=13,  54.2%).  Two  subjects  in  dose  level  2  had  gastroschisis.  At  the  start  of 
study drug administration, 12 of 24 (50.0%) subjects were post-operative surgery: 3 of 8 in dose level 
1, 2 of 8 in dose level 2, and 7 of 8 in dose level 3. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Table. 6 overall results 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 11/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table. 7 Pharmacokinetic analysis on post-interim patients 
Efficacy 
Primary Efficacy 
Table  8.  Number  and  percentage  of  patients  requiring  any  rescue  medication  for  sedation 
during DEX infusion 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 12/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary Efficacy  
Table 9. Number and Percentage of Subjects Who Received Rescue Medication for Analgesia 
During DEX Infusion (EE Population) 
Table 10. Summary of Subjects Who Received Rescue Medication (EE Population) 
Post-interim patients 
None  of  the  6  post-interim  analysis  patients  received  rescue  MDZ  for  sedation  during  the  study 
infusion. 1 subject  received rescue medication for analgesia during DEX infusion. This subject received 
2 mcg (0.98 mcg/kg) fentanyl for rescue analgesia during DEX infusion. 
Safety 
Most TEAEs were considered as not related to treatment, 2 subjects in age group II experienced TEAEs 
considered  as  related  to  treatment.  There  were  no  severe  TEAEs  reported,  2  subjects  in  each  age 
group  experienced  moderate  TEAEs,  all  other  subjects  experienced  mild  TEAEs.  There  were  no 
treatment-emergent SAEs leading to death, no other treatment-emergent SAEs, and no TEAEs that led 
to  drug  discontinuation.  There  were  no  dose-limiting  toxicities  that  led  to  drug  discontinuation 
(persistent  bradycardia,  persistent  hypotension,  or  respiratory  depression).  One  non-treatment 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 13/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
emergent SAE of cardiac arrest was reported and considered not related to the treatment (pre-existing 
heart disease).The subject responded to treatment and recovered. 
Table 11. Overview of Treatment Emergent Adverse Events 
1.2.3.  Study DEX-08-05 
This  was  a  phase  III,  randomized,  double-blind,  dose-controlled,  multicentre  study  evaluating  the 
safety  and  efficacy  of  dexmedetomidine  in  intubated  and  mechanically  ventilated  paediatric  ICU 
patients.  The  objectives  were:  1)  to  characterize  the  loading  and  maintenance  dosing  of  DEX  by  age 
group  and  overall  medical  condition  of  pediatric  subjects;  2)  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of 
loading  and  maintenance  infusions  for  sedation  in  initially  intubated  and  mechanically  ventilated 
paediatric  ICU  subjects;  and  3)  to  explore  the  exposure-response  relationship  between  dose  of  DEX 
and clinical measures of sedation and safety. The study design is summarised in Figure 3. 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 14/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 
Subjects were randomized into 1 of 2 treatment groups: high dose DEX and low dose DEX. There was 
no  placebo  arm.  Within  each  treatment  group,  the  loading  and  maintenance  doses  were  stratified 
according to the presence or absence of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB): 1) Group 1 = low dose DEX; 2) 
Group 2 = high dose DEX; 3) Group 1a and 2a = post CPB (DEX started within 24 hours after end of 
surgery) ; 4) Group 1b and 2b = all other diagnoses. Subjects were also grouped by age; age group 1 
included  subjects  ≥1  month  to  <24  months  old  (if  premature,  corrected  for  gestational  age  until  3 
months of actual birth age); age group II included subjects ≥24 month to <17 years old. 
1.2.3.1.  Methodology 
Study participants 
Inclusion criteria 
These were as follows: 1) Initially intubated and mechanically ventilated pediatric subjects (≥1 month 
(birth age corrected for prematurity) to <17 years of age) in an intensive care setting. The means by 
which  the  subject  was  intubated  could  include  nasotracheal,  endotracheal  or  via  tracheotomy.  The 
subject must have been mechanically ventilated prior to and during the commencement of study drug; 
2) Anticipated to require a minimum of 6 hours of continuous intravenous (IV) sedation; 3) American 
Association  of  Anesthesiologists  (ASA)  physical  status  classification:  P1,  P2,  P3,  or  P4;  4)  A  UMSS 
score of 1, 2, 3, or 4 at the start of infusion of study drug and 5) A dose had been established for this 
subject's age.  
Exclusion criteria 
These  were  as  follows:  1)  Subjects  with  neurological  conditions  that  prohibited  an  evaluation  of 
sedation  in  the  opinion  of  the  investigator  (e.g.,  increased  intracranial  pressure  or  extensive  brain 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 15/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
surgery);  2)The  infusion  pump  minimal  capacity  could  not  accommodate  the  lowest  possible 
maintenance infusion rate of study drug based on subject's weight; 3) Subjects with second degree or 
third  degree  heart  block  unless  subject  had  a  pacemaker  or  pacing  wires;  4)  Hypotension  that 
persisted beyond a 15-minute period of re-assessment prior to starting study drug: age 1 month to ≤6 
months old: SBP <60 mmHg, age >6 months to <2 years old: SBP <70 mmHg, age >2 to <12 years 
old: SBP <80 mmHg and age >12 to <17 years old: SBP <90 mmHg; 5) Pre-existing bradycardia that 
persisted  beyond  a  15-minute  period  of  re-assessment  prior  to  starting  study  drug:    age  1  month  to 
<2 months old: HR <90 bpm, age ≥2 months to <12 months old: HR <80 bpm, age ≥12 months to 
<2 years old: HR <70 bpm, age ≥2 to <12 years old: HR <60 bpm, age ≥12 to <17 yrs old: HR <50 
bpm; 6) ALT/ SGPT: 1 month to 12 months old: >165 U/L, >12 months to <17 years old: ≥100U/L; 7) 
Subjects  had  a  known  allergy  to  DEX,  MDZ,  morphine,  or  fentanyl;  8)  Requirement  for  medications 
other  than  DEX,  MDZ,  morphine,  or  fentanyl  for  sedation  and  pain  control  and  9)  Subjects  with 
immobility  from  neuromuscular  disease,  paralysis  from  administration  of  NMB  agents,  spinal  cord 
injury  above  T5  or  subjects  with  muscle  weakness  from  congenital  or  systemic  medical  illness 
etiologies, subjects who received NMB agents intraoperatively had to be, in the investigator's opinion, 
free of residual neuromuscular blockade prior to dosing with study drug. 
Treatment 
Treatment could be administered as follows: 1) an optional 10-20 minute loading dose infusion of DEX 
followed by a continuous titratable maintenance dose infusion of DEX for a minimum of 6 hours up to 
24 hours. It was recommended that subjects who were on open-label DEX prior to starting the study 
not receive a loading dose, but the decision was at the discretion of the Investigator; or 2) No loading 
dose and a continuous titratable maintenance dose infusion of DEX for a minimum of 6 hours up to 24 
hours. It was to be administered through a designated IV line or port on a central line. The doses were 
according to Table 12: 
Table 12- Doses administered 
The target UMSS was a score between 1-3. If required, MDZ could be titrated as a rescue medication 
at the discretion of the investigator as follows: <6 months: 0.05-0.1 mg/kg; 6 months to 5 years old : 
0.05-0.1 mg/kg; 6 to 12 years old: 0.025-0.05 mg/kg; >12 (Adult): 1-3 mg. 
If  rescue  MDZ  was  considered  necessary,  the  DEX  dose  was  titrated  upwards  and  the  need  to 
administer additional midazolam reassessed following DEX administration. Fentanyl or morphine could 
be administered to treat pain, after the subject was first treated with an increase in the DEX infusion 
rate,  at  age-specific  doses,  or  as  a  continuous  infusion  at  the  discretion  of  the  investigator.  Subjects 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 16/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
receiving  continuous  infusions  of  fentanyl  or  morphine  prior  to  randomization  could  continue  these 
infusions throughout study drug administration if required. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  percent  of  subjects  that  did  not  require  rescue  midazolam  for 
sedation based on achieving and maintaining a target UMSS score of 1-3 while intubated. 
Secondary endpoints included the absolute time and percentage of time on study drug that the subject 
was in a UMSS score range of 1 to 3 while intubated; absolute time and percentage of time on study 
drug  that  the  subject  was  out  of  the  target  sedation  range  while  intubated  (UMSS  score  of  0  or  4); 
total  amount  of  rescue  medication  required  for  sedation  and  analgesia;  time  to  first  dose  of  rescue 
medication for sedation and analgesia; and time to extubation. 
Statistical Methods 
The study was powered to give 80% power at the 2-sided 5% level to detect a difference of 17-20% in 
the proportion of patients not requiring rescue MDZ.  The rate on the high dose group was assumed to 
be  around  62-77%.  Three  analysis  populations  were  defined.  The  intent-to-treat  (ITT)  population 
included  all  randomised  subjects;  the  safety  evaluable  (SE)  population  included  all  patients  that 
received any dose of Dexdor; the efficacy evaluable (EE) population included all patients who received 
Dexdor  for  at  least  6  hours.  The  EE  population  was  primary  for  the  analysis  of  efficacy.  The  primary 
efficacy variable, the percentage of patients that did not require rescue MDZ (based on achieving and 
maintaining  a  target  UMSS  range  of  1-3  while  intubated),  was  compared  between  treatment  groups 
using  the  normal  approximation  to  the  binomial  distribution.  The  absolute  time  and  the  percentage 
time  on  study  drug  that  the  patient  was  in  a  UMSS  range  of  1-3  while  intubated  were  compared 
between treatment groups using a Wilcoxon test. Time to successful extubation, and time to first dose 
of  rescue  medication  for  sedation  and  analgesia  while  on  study  drug  were  compared  between 
treatment groups using a log-rank test and summarised using Kaplan-Meier estimates.   
1.2.3.2.  Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
Table 13. Number of patients in each group 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 17/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14. 
Number of patients in the analysis populations 
Low dose 
Population 
89 
ITT 
89 
SE 
83 (93.3%) 
EE 
High dose 
86 
86 
81 (94.2%) 
Time to extubation was analyzed for measurable assessment and 41 subjects were excluded from this 
analysis.  
Patient characteristics 
In age group I, median age was 8.51 months (low dose) and 9.75 months (high dose); in age group II, 
median age was 6.32 years (low dose) and 7.57 years (high dose). Subjects had similar screening ASA 
classification in both age groups and both DEX dose groups with the majority of subjects high risk with 
severe systemic disease, P3. Subjects who underwent open-heart surgery (s/p CPB) were mostly high 
risk  P3  and  there  were  similar  numbers  of  subjects  in  the  low  dose  (72.2%)  and  high  dose  (73.0%) 
DEX groups s/p CPB. 
Median age of subjects was similar across dose groups and by underlying condition; median age of age 
groups combined was 10.7 months (range: 0.9 months to 16.3 years) in the low dose group and 14.7 
months  (range:  1.3  months  to  16.2  years)  in  the  high  dose  group.  Height  and  weight  were  similar 
across  dose  groups  and  by  underlying  condition  (median  height  of  age  groups  combined:  low  dose 
68.0 cm, high dose 76.5 cm; median weight of age groups combined: low dose 8.1 kg; high dose 8.5 
kg). 
Overall,  approximately  70.0%  of  subjects  were  Caucasian  (low  dose,  71.9%;  high  dose,  72.1%). 
Slightly more subjects overall were male than female (low dose, 59.6% male; high dose, 55.8% male).  
Most  subjects  had  cardiopulmonary  disease  at  baseline.  Body  systems  in  which  50.0%  or  more 
subjects overall had at least 1 report were cardiopulmonary (low dose, 73.0%; high dose, 81.4%) and 
respiratory (low dose, 55.1%; high dose, 61.6%). 
All subjects (100.0%) in the high dose group and all except 1 subject in the low dose group received at 
least 1 concomitant medication during the study. Concomitant medications taken by at least 50.0% of 
subjects in a dose group, excluding MDZ, fentanyl, and morphine, the use of which was permitted as 
rescue medication per protocol, were furosemide, acetaminophen, potassium chloride, and heparin. In 
the s/p CPB groups following open heart surgery, >90% of subjects were on inotropic support postop. 
Inotropic support with milrinone and dobutamine was similar in both the low and high dose DEX groups 
s/p CPB. 
The  most  common  reason  for  study  discontinuation  was  loss  to  follow-up:    6  (6.7%)  subjects  in  the 
low dose group and 7 (8.1%) in the high dose group did not complete the post-dose day 28  follow-up. 
Other reasons for study discontinuation were AE and physician reason:  2 (2.2%) subjects in the low 
dose  group  and  1  (1.2%)  in  the  high  dose  group.  Other  discontinuations  included  death  unrelated  to 
DEX  (1  (1.2%)  subject  each  in  the  low  dose  and  high  dose  groups),  and  discontinuation  due  to  data 
that were not collected. 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 18/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy  
Primary Efficacy  
Table  15    .  Percentages  of  subjects  that  did  not  require  rescue  MDZ  for  sedation  while 
intubated during the treatment period  
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 19/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 16. statistical results 
Secondary Efficacy  
There was no significant difference between treatment groups for the absolute time and percentage of 
time  that  subjects  were  in  the  UMSS  range  1-3  during  the  treatment.  All  age  groups  and  diagnoses 
receiving the high dose of DEX were in the targeted UMSS range 87.8 to 99.2% of the time compared 
to 85.5 to 99.0% of the time in the low dose DEX groups. 
Differences  between  treatment  groups  in  total  amount  of  rescue  medication  required  for  sedation 
(MDZ) or analgesia (fentanyl and morphine) are presented in Tables 17-19. 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 20/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 17. 
Table 18 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 21/31 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19. 
Safety  
TEAEs  were  experienced  by  33/63  subjects  (52.4%;  82  events)  in  the  low  dose  group  and  27/60 
subjects (45.0%; 57 events) in the high dose DEX group. In age group II, TEAEs were experienced by 
15/26 subjects (57.7%; 39 events) in the low dose group and 16/26 subjects (61.5%; 31 events) in 
the high dose DEX group. In age group I, moderate and severe TEAEs were experienced by 17 (27.0%; 
30 events) and 10 subjects (16.7%; 17 events) in the low and high dose groups, respectively; and in 
age group II, moderate and severe TEAEs were experienced by 8 (30.8%; 13 events) and 6 subjects 
(23.1%; 9 events) in the low and high dose groups, respectively. 
Overall, 5/175 subjects (2.9%) reported a total of 7 severe TEAEs; all severe TEAEs were reported in 
the  low  dose  DEX  groups.  The  severe  TEAEs  reported  were  myocarditis,  pyrexia,  status  epilepticus, 
dyspnea,  ventricular  fibrillation,  chest  pain,  and  wheezing.  The  severe  myocarditis  event  was  also 
considered a serious TEAE and treatment-related. There were 4 deaths and these were considered not 
related to DEX. 
Treatment-emergent  mild  blood  cortisol  increased  was  experienced  by  1  subject  (1.7%)  in  the  age 
group  I,  in  high  dose  DEX  and  other  diagnoses  group,  and  was  considered  not  related  to  DEX.  All 
subjects  studied  had  an  increase  in  cortisol  in  response  to  cosyntropin  (ACTH)  1  hour  after 
discontinuing DEX. There was no evidence of adrenal suppression based on cortisol levels at the time 
of discontinuation of DEX or with the cortisol response to cosyntropin. 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 22/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2.4.  Additional analysis 
A population PK (PPK) analysis was performed by the MAH with the following objectives : 1) to conduct 
an exploratory review of data from four studies in paediatric patients in order to characterise the data 
and evaluate the assumptions and appropriateness of the model to be developed; 2) to develop a PPK 
model  describing  the  PK  of  Dexdor  in  paediatric  subjects  (including  neonates);  and  3)  assess  the 
influence  of demographic  covariates  and  concomitant  medications  on  the  variability in  the  PPK  model 
parameters. 
A  total  of  184,  427,  615,  and  54  dexmedetomidine  concentration  records  from  30,  35,  54,  and  5 
pediatric  subjects  enrolled  in  studies  DEX-09-08,  DEX-08-05  (CHOP),  DEX-08-01  and  DEX-11-01, 
respectively, were included. Of the 124 subjects, a sizable number were below the age of two (n=62, 
50%)  with  28  pre-term  and  term  neonates  (22%  of  total),  14  between  the  ages  of  1  and  6  months 
(11%), 15 between 6 months and 1 year (12%) and 13 between 12 months and 2 years (11%). 
The applicant conclusions were as follows: 
-  The  final  base  structural  PK  model  was  a  2-compartment  model  with interindividual  variability  (IIV) 
estimated on clearance (CL), intercompartmental clearance (Q), volume of the central compartmental 
(Vc), and volume of the peripheral compartment (Vp) using exponential error models, fixed allometric 
exponents  on  the  clearance  (0.75  for  CL  and  Q)  and  volume  of  distribution  (1.0  for  Vc  and  Vp) 
parameters,  with  an  additional  shift  on  the  CL  exponent  for  neonates,  age  effects  on  Q  and  Vp 
described by power functions (both decrease with increasing age), covariance terms for the IIVs on CL 
and Vp, and the IIVs on Q and Vc, separate additive plus constant coefficient of variation error models 
for Studies DEX-08-01 and CHOP, and a constant coefficient of variation error model for Studies DEX-
09-08 and DEX-11-01: 
Model based on post-natal age and 
categorical indicator for pre-term and 
term neonates 
[
+⋅
)53.01(75.0
NEO⋅
]
Typical
=
  CL 
10.7
⋅
Typical
=
  V 
c
8.49
⋅

WTKG

9.6


WTKG

9.6







Typical
 Q 
=
63.5
⋅



WTKG
9.6



75.0
⋅



age
31.1
−
342.0



−
.0
280
 V 
p
Typical

⋅

WTKTG: weight in kg, NEO: indicator variable for neonates 
WTKG
9.6
age
31.1
14.7









=
⋅
-  The 
intercompartmental  clearance  and  the  volume  of  the  peripheral  compartment 
for 
dexmedetomidine  were  both  found  to  be  related  to  maturation,  as  described  by  age,  according  to  a 
power function (both decrease with increasing age). 
-  The  effects  of  ethnicity,  sex,  alanine  aminotransferase,  total  bilirubin,  heart  physiology  (single- 
versus double-ventricle), use of concomitant glucuronidation pathway inhibitors, albumin infusion, use 
of  cardio-pulmonary  bypass,  and  site  of  sampling  were  not  identified  as  statistically  significant 
predictors of dexmedetomidine pharmacokinetic variability. 
-  Clearance  estimates  from  this  model  increase  with  increasing  age  and  weight-adjusted  clearance 
estimates decrease with increasing age, approaching values expected in adults. 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 23/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Volume  of  distribution  estimates  from  this  model  increase  with  increasing  age  and  weight-adjusted 
volume of distribution estimates decrease with increasing age, approaching values expected in adults. 
- The model evaluation supports the robustness of the model to predict well over the entire range of 
concentrations. 
-  Using  the  final  population  PK  model  for  dexmedetomidine,  95%  confidence  intervals  expressed 
relative to the corresponding point estimates of the geometric mean of the CL and Vc were within the 
targeted  range  of  0.6  to  1.4,  except  in  the  6-17  years  age  group  where  the  upper  bound  on  Vc  was 
1.43,  however  all  confidence  interval  bounds  were  well  within  the  range  when  PK  parameters  were 
adjusted for body weight. 
Additional analysis using model based on PMA 
At  the  CHMP  request,  the  applicant  provided  additional  analyses  of  maturation  using  different  ages 
(PNA: postnatal age, PMA: post-menstrual age: post, GA: gestational age). The resulting model based 
on PMA showed a very different structural model equation from the original PNA model: 
Model based on post-menstrual age 
Typical
CL 
=
11.4
⋅



WTKG
10.35



75.0
⋅



.0
PMA
41.7
+
41.7
41.7
PMA



Typical
V 
c
=
13.4
⋅



WTKG
10.35
Typical
=
5.63Q 
⋅



Typical
V 
p
=
13.9
⋅

WTKG

10.35

WTKG
10.35



676
−
379.0
PMA
06.2





⋅



75.0
74.1
(
⋅
PMA
−
)06.2

−

According to the applicant, despite this finding, the PK of dexmedetomidine in the pediatric population 
was statistically significantly related to both body weight and maturation in both models. 
Comparison  of  individual  Bayesian  estimates  of  pharmacokinetic  parameters  using  models 
based on PNA and PMA – CHMP analysis 
This comparison is presented in Figures 5-15. 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 24/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figures 5-10 Comparison of individual bayesian estimates of pharmacokinetic parameters derived from the original 
model based on post-natal age (PNA) and the current model based on post-menstrual age (PMA) shown on log-log 
axes.   
Figures  11-15    Comparison  of  individual  bayesian  estimates  of  pharmacokinetic  parameters  derived  from  the 
original model based on post-natal age (PNA) and the current model based on post-menstrual age (PMA) shown on 
linear axes. 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 25/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In these figures, pre-term and term neonates are differentiated by symbol.  A dashed line indicates a 
1:1  relationship  (i.e.  identical  estimates  from  the  two  models)  and  a  solid  line  indicates  LOESS 
regression  line.  Linear  scale  (data  source:  Appendix  12  of  Population  PK  report  of  June  6,  2012  and 
Appendix 19 of Response Memorandum of October 22, 2012; thalf calculated CHMP). 
1.2.5.  Discussion 
Across  the  completed  paediatric  studies,  Dexdor  has  been  studied  in  neonates,  infants,  children  and 
adolescents  aged  from  gestational  age  28  weeks  to  17  years.  The  doses  studied  have  ranged  from 
0.05 - 7 µg/kg/hr given for a maximum of 24 hours.  
Study DEX-11-01 (12 months to <24 months) 
According to the applicant, exposure to DEX, measured as Cmax or AUC, appeared to be dose-related, 
although  highly  variable.  Mean  Cmax  increased  from  4500  pg/mL  in  dose  level  1  to  11737  pg/mL  in 
dose level 2, while dose adjusted Cmax was fairly constant. Likewise, AUC (0-Infinity) increased from 
4639  (pg/mL)hr  in  dose  level  1  to  14204  (pg/mL)hr  in  dose  level  2,  whereas  dose-adjusted  AUC  (0-
Infinity)  was  fairly  constant.    Dexmedetomidine  half-life  was  about  2  hours  in  all  subjects  and  was 
independent  of  dose.  With  the  exception  of  one  outlier  in  dose  level  1,  both  CL  and  CLw  were  fairly 
constant  across  both  dose  levels.  Clearance  was  about  5.7  L/hr  (2.5  to  8.2  L/hr)  whereas  weight 
adjusted CL was about 0.6 L/hr/kg (0.2 to 0.9 L/hr/kg). Vd was also fairly constant across both dose 
levels.  Again  with  the  exclusion  of  the  outlier  in  dose  level  1,  Vd  was  about  16.2  L  (13.4  to  19.9  L) 
whereas weight adjusted Vd was about 1.6 L/kg (0.99 to 2.23 L/kg). 
The  CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  given  the  small  number  of  patients  included  (n=5),  labelling  an 
individual as an ‘outlier’ could be questioned and therefore from the CHMP viewpoint, the results in this 
study may only conclude to a very high inter-individual variability with regard to pharmacokinetics. It 
is known from the adult patient population PK that dexmedetomidine appeared to exhibit an essentially 
linear  relationship  at  steady  state  between  infusion  rate  and  plasma  concentration  and  the  plasma 
clearance  of  dexmedetomidine  is  approximately  constant  within  the  anticipated  therapeutic  infusion 
dose range. The mean estimate of the elimination t1/2 is approximately 1.9 to 2.5 hours (min 1.35 h 
and  max  3.68  h).  On  this  basis,  no  major  findings  are  identified  in  this  study  performed  in  a  small 
patient population and the PK profile appeared to  be behave similarly to that in the adult population. 
No conclusions could be drawn regarding pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic profile and efficacy, due 
to the small number of patients. 
Study DEX-09-08 (>28 weeks to <44 weeks gestational age) 
In  this  study,  the  ITT,  SE  and  EE  populations  were  identical.  Although,  no  statistical  analysis  was 
performed due to early termination of the study, the sample size calculation could be questioned as 1-
sided tests at the 5% level are not usually accepted. The CHMP noted that study DEX-09-08 seeks to 
further  characterise  the  PK  and  efficacy  of  Dexmedetomidine  in  neonates,  one  of  the  paediatric 
population where these data were currently lacking.  
No subject in age group I received rescue MDZ for sedation during the study infusion. In age group II, 
a  total  of  4  subjects  (16.7%)  received  rescue  MDZ  for  sedation  during  the  study  infusion:  1  subject 
each (12.5%) in dose level 1 and dose level 2, and 2 subjects (25.0%) in dose level 3, resulting in a 
combined age group I and II total of 4 subjects (13.3%). None of the 6 post-interim analysis patients 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 26/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
received rescue MDZ for sedation during the study infusion. 1 subject  received rescue medication for 
analgesia  during  DEX  infusion.  This  subject  received  2  mcg  (0.98  mcg/kg)  fentanyl  for  rescue 
analgesia  during  DEX  infusion.  One  subject  (16.7%)  in  age  group  I  received  rescue  medication  for 
analgesia  during  the  study  infusion.  In  age  group  II,  a  total  of  14  subjects  (58.3%)  received  rescue 
medication for analgesia during the study infusion: 4 subjects each (50.0%) in dose level 1 and dose 
level 2, and 6 subjects (75.0%) in dose level 3, resulting in a combined age group I and II total of 15 
subjects (50.0%). 
More  subjects  in  age  group  II  were  post-operative  surgical,  particularly  dose  level  3  where  most 
subjects were post-operative open heart surgery for congenital heart disease and likely required more 
medication for sedation and analgesia. In addition, the 8 subjects in age group II, dose level 3 received 
maintenance dosing for a median duration of nearly 3 times longer than subjects in dose levels 2 and 
1. The premature neonates in age group I were adequately sedated with DEX alone and only 1 subject 
required additional rescue for pain. The low doses of DEX, up to 0.2 mcg/kg/hr, used in this trial in the 
term  neonates  was  not  sufficient  to  consistently  sedate  and  keep  this  age  group  comfortable.  It  is 
noted  that  in  dose  level  3  includes  more  post-surgical  patients  which  may  have  influenced  the 
increased analgesic requirements. 
Despite the small numbers of patients; the clearance of Dexdor appeared to be lower in the younger 
children  (Cl:0.49,  Clw:0.41  in  Age  group  I,  28-36  weeks).  This  finding  is  consistent  with  the  work  of 
Potts  AL  et  al.  who  found  that  children  younger  than  one  year  of  age  might  have  lower  bodyweight-
adjusted  clearances  when  compared  to  older  children  and  adults  implying  that  higher  steady-state 
dexmedetomidine plasma concentrations would be predicted when dosing in proportion to bodyweight.  
The predicted higher exposures were borne out in study DEX-09-08. This finding may have contributed 
to  the  lower  requirement  for  rescue  medication  in  the  younger  patient  age  group,  although  no  clear 
dose response relationship could be elucidated. No discussion is provided as to the correlation between 
N-PASS scores and UMSS scores, although the CHMP accepted that both are validated scales for their 
respective age groups.  
In this study, Dexdor appeared to exhibit a level of efficacy similar to that seen in older children and 
adults and is reasonably well tolerated.  
Study DEX-08-05 (≥1 month to <17 years) 
In  this  study,  the  definition  of  the  EE  population  could  be  questioned  as  all  patients  randomised  and 
treated  should  have  been  included  in  the  efficacy  analysis  (ie  patient  who  failed  to  receive  6  hours 
treatment with Dexdor were excluded, however such failure could be related to the performance of the 
product for that patient). Considering that the number of patients excluded from the EE population was 
small and fairly balanced across the treatment groups, the CHMP was of the opinion that this exclusion 
criteria did not hamper the validity of the presented results.  
The study showed that Dexdor was able to maintain paediatric patients across different age groups and 
ASA  status’  at  a  target  level  of  sedation  in  approximately  50%  of  cases.  From  the  data  of  the  initial 
MAA,  this  figure  is  slightly  less  than  the  proportion  of  adult  subjects  who  were  maintained  at  target 
sedation  levels  of  approximately  60%.  Overall,  the  results  are  difficult  to  interpret  since  the  study 
failed to show a statistically significant difference between the doses (as was planned for in the sample 
size calculation). Comparing the observed results with the estimates used for the study planning it is 
clear  that  this  is  because  the  high  dose  was  worse  than  expected.  Nevertheless,  no  significant 
difference between the dose groups was observed in terms of the primary or secondary endpoints, nor 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 27/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was  any  subgroup  difference  identified.    In  the  absence  of  a  placebo  arm  (or  an  even  lower  dose)  it 
cannot  be  determined  whether  the  study  had  sufficient  assay  sensitivity  to  detect  an  important 
difference between the doses should one exist. A further possibility is that the studied doses were ‘too 
high’ and on the flatter part of the dose-response curve – and there was truly no important difference 
between the doses. The CHMP was however reassured that no significant observations were made with 
regard to safety. It is noted that that a greater proportion of TEAEs were observed in the lower dose 
group than the high dose group.  
Overall  the  high  dose  DEX  group  was  numerically  better  sedated  than  the  low  dose  DEX  groups  with 
54.3%  of  high  dose  subjects  not  requiring  rescue  MDZ  compared  to  44.6%  in  the  low  dose  DEX 
groups.  A  smaller  percentage  of  subjects  in  age  group  II  did  not  require  rescue  MDZ  for  sedation  in 
comparison with age group I in both DEX dose groups. In both dose groups subjects undergoing open 
heart  surgery  with  CPB  received  more  rescue  MDZ  than  those  in  the  other  diagnoses  groups.  The 
greatest difference between treatment groups was in the heart surgery subjects (s/p CPB) with more 
subjects in both age groups receiving high dose DEX than low dose DEX, not requiring MDZ sedation 
rescue.  The  pattern  of  results  was  similar  whether  subjects  were  more  (ASA  Classification  P3,  P4)  or 
less critically ill (ASA Classification P1, P2). 
There was no significant difference between treatment groups for the absolute time and percentage of 
time  that  subjects  were  in  the  UMSS  range  1-3  during  the  treatment.  All  age  groups  and  diagnoses 
receiving the high dose of DEX were in the targeted UMSS range 87.8 to 99.2% of the time compared 
to 85.5 to 99.0% of the time in the low dose DEX groups. 
No difference was observed between groups for the  amount of rescue midazolam, or requirement for 
rescue fentanyl or morphine for analgesia. 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis 
Of the 124 subjects included in the analysis, a sizable number were below the age of two (n=62, 50%) 
with 28 pre-term and term neonates (22% of total), 14 between the ages of 1 and 6 months (11%), 
15 between  6 months and 1 year (12%) and 13 between 12 months and 2 years (11%).  The CHMP 
agreed  that  the  ages  and  weights  represented  in  the  4  studies  comprise  a  continuum  of  maturation 
and  size  (pre-term  and  term  neonates  to  nearly  adults)  and  that  the  younger  age  range,  where 
maturation is expected to play an important role, is well represented within the data set. 
The  methodology  utilised  for  model  development  and  evaluation  is  clearly  described  and  is  generally 
supported.    One  of  the  studies  included  in  the  present  population  PK  analysis  (CHOP)  was  previously 
analysed and reported (Su 2010) and appeared to have been used as a starting point for the present 
analysis. However, the description of Su’s structural model was inconsistent in the presented analysis 
and  hence  the  CHMP  could  not  endorse  the  applicant  conclusions.  On  this  basis  and  considering  the 
different  maturation  status  expected  in  preterm  versus  term  neonates,  age  effects  on  Q  and  Vp  and 
that  the  presented  data  was  only  based  on  post-natal  age,  additional  analysis  where  CL  and  Q  are 
related  to  WT0.75  and  Vc  and  Vp  are  related  to  WT1  as  a  base  model  and  exploratory  plots  of  CL 
(L/h/kg0.75) and Vc, Q and Vp versus age (PNA, PMA, GA) were provided. The resulting model based on 
PMA  showed  very  different  structure  for  inclusion  of  maturation  effects  on  the  pharmacokinetic 
parameters  for  dexmedetomidine  compared  to  the  original  model  utilising  post-natal  age.    A 
comparison of the empirical bayes estimates derived from the two models based on log-log and linear 
scales was made, showing that  despite the different approach to inclusion of age in the two models, 
the resulting empirical bayes estimates of clearance were very similar with only very small differences 
for pre-term neonates.  This was however not true for any of the other model parameters, where the 
values differed (often markedly) between the two models (see Figure 5-15).  Despite these differences, 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 28/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  two  models  predicted  similar  concentration-time  profiles  for  individual  subjects  and  also  show 
similar visual predictive checks.   
Overall, the CHMP concluded that the relationship of drug clearance to age and weight was viewed as 
well  estimated.    Also,  the  terminal  half-life  (thalf)  is  judged  to  be  generally  very  similar  between  the 
two models.  When the mean values of CL and half-life for each age group are compared between the 
two models, they are in all cases less than 15% different from one another.  Thus, both models were 
judged to provide useful and reliable estimates of these parameters and inclusion of such information 
in section 5.2 of the SmPC was endorsed by the CHMP. 
1.3.  Changes to the Product Information 
The  MAH  proposed  the  following  changes  to  the  Product  Information  (PI),  to  which  the  CHMP  agreed 
(new text= underlined, deleted text: strikethrough):  
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Section 4.2 
Paediatric  population:  The  safety  and  efficacy  of  Dexdor  in  children  aged  0  to  18 years  has  not  been 
established. Currently available data are described in sections 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 but no recommendation 
on a posology can be made. A dosing scheme similar to adults has been used in a predominantly post-
operative ICU population aged  >1 month, during use for up to 24 hours. A loading dose of around 0.5 
to 1 mcg/kg over 10 to 20 minutes was commonly used in the studies but is probably not needed if the 
patient is already established on sedation. Treatment for longer than 24 hours has not been studied. In 
new-born infants maintenance doses above 0.2 mcg/kg/h have not been evaluated. 
Section 4.8 
Paediatric population 
There 
is 
limited  experience 
in  children,  most  data  has  been  obtained 
from  short  term 
exposure.  Children  >  1  month  post-natal,  predominently  post-operative,  have  been  evaluated  for 
treatment up to 24 hours in the ICU and demonstated a similar safety profile as in adults. Data in new-
born  infants  (28  –  44  weeks  gestation)  is  very  limited  and  restricted  to  maintenence  doses  ≤  0.2 
mcg/kg/h. A single case of hypothermic bradycardia in a neonate has been reported in the literature. 
Section 5.1 
Paediatric efficacy data from well controlled ICU studies is sparse but dexmedetomidine has been used 
as  a  sedative  in  childrenEvidence  of  paediatric  efficacy  was  seen  in  a  dose-controlled  ICU  study  in  a 
largely post-operative population aged 1 month to ≤ 17 years. Most patients were successfully sedated 
with dexmedetomidine during treatment up to 24 hours, although a difference between dose levels of 
dexmedetomidine  was  not  demonstrated.  Data  on  treatment  for  >  24  hours  is  not  available.  Data  in 
new-born  infants  (28  –  44  weeks  gestation)  is  very  limited  and  restricted  to  low  doses 
(≤ 0.2 mcg/kg/h)    (see  sections  5.2  and  4.4).  New-born  infants  may  be  particularly  sensitive  to  the 
bradycardic effects of Dexdor in the presence of hypothermia and in conditions of heart rate-dependent 
cardiac output.  
Section 5.2 
Data in children 2 months to 17 years of age are limited. Dexmedetomidine half life appears similar to 
that  seen  in  adults.  In  the  age  groups  2-20  months  and  2-6  years,  body  weight-adjusted  plasma 
clearance  appeared  higher  (1.2  and  1.0   l/h/kg,  respectively)  but  decreased  in  older  children 
(0.8 l/h/kg)  to  be  comparable  to  adults  (0.5-0.6 l/h/kg).  Plasma  clearance  may  be  lower  in  children 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 29/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
< 2 months due to immaturity.Data in new-born infants (28 – 44 weeks gestation) to children 17 years 
of age are limited. Dexmedetomidine half life in children (2 months to 17 years) appears similar to that 
seen in adults but in new-born infants (28 – 44 weeks gestation) it appears higher.  In the age groups 
2-20  months  and  2-6  years,  body  weight-adjusted  plasma  clearance  appeared  higher  (1.2  and 
1.0  l/h/kg, respectively) but decreased in older children (0.8 l/h/kg) to be comparable to adults (0.5-
0.6 l/h/kg).  Body  weight-adjusted  plasma  clearance    in    new-born  infants  (28  weeks  gestation  to 
1 month) appeared lower (0.9 l/h/kg) than in the age groups 2-20 months due to immaturity. 
During the procedure, the CHMP requested further amendments to the PI including the deletion of the 
dosing information in section 4.2 since the present application was not related to a paediatric indication 
and  the  inclusion  in  section  5.2  of  a  table  with  both  mean  values  of  the  clearance  and  half  life  and 
some  estimates  of  variability.  The  CHMP  considered  the  MAH  proposal  to  state  that  “the  clearance  in 
older  children  decreased  to  be  comparable  to  clearance  in  adults  (0.5  -  0.6  L/h/kg)”  was  misleading.  
The point estimate of clearance for the 6 - 17 year olds was 0.8 and confidence interval 0.69 to 0.92 
L/h/kg. The requested amendments in addition to revision of part of the proposed text in section 5.1 
were agreed by the MAH. The final recommended PI changes by the CHMP can be read as follows: 
Section 4.2 
Paediatric  population:  Currently  available  data  are  described  in  sections  4.8,  5.1,  5.2  but  no 
recommendation on a posology can be made. 
Section 4.8 
Paediatric population 
Children > 1 month post-natal, predominently post-operative, have been evaluated for treatment up to 
24  hours  in  the  ICU  and  demonstrated  a  similar  safety  profile  as  in  adults.  Data  in  new-born  infants 
(28  –  44  weeks  gestation)  is  very  limited  and  restricted  to  maintenance  doses  ≤  0.2  mcg/kg/h.  A 
single case of hypothermic bradycardia in a neonate has been reported in the literature. 
Section 5.1 
Evidence  of  paediatric  efficacy  was  seen  in  a  dose-controlled  ICU  study  in  a  largely  post-operative 
population  aged  1  month  to  ≤  17  years.    Approximately  50%  of  patients  treated  with 
dexmedetomidine  did  not  require  rescue  addition  of  midazolam  during  a  median  treatment  period  of 
20.3 hours, not exceeding 24 hours. Data on treatment for > 24 hours is not available. Data in new-
born  infants  (28  –  44  weeks  gestation)  is  very  limited  and  restricted  to  low  doses  (≤ 0.2 mcg/kg/h) 
(see sections 5.2 and 4.4). New-born infants may be particularly sensitive to the bradycardic effects of 
Dexdor in the presence of hypothermia and in conditions of heart rate-dependent cardiac output.  
Section 5.2 
Data  in  new-born  infants  (28  -  44 weeks  gestation)  to  children  17 years  of  age  are  limited. 
Dexmedetomidine  half  life  in  children  (1 months  to  17 years)  appears  similar  to  that  seen  in  adults, 
but  in  new-born  infants  (under  1 month)  it  appears  higher.  In  the  age  groups  1 months  to  6  years, 
body weight-adjusted plasma clearance appeared higher but decreased in older children. Body weight-
adjusted  plasma  clearance  in  new-born  infants  (under  1 month)  appeared  lower  (0.9 l/h/kg)  than  in 
the older groups due to immaturity. The available data is summarised in the following table: 
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 30/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Age 
Under 1 month 
1 to < 6 months 
6 to < 12 months 
12 to < 24 months 
2 to < 6 years 
6 to < 17 years 
N 
28 
14 
15 
13 
26 
28 
Mean (95% CI) 
Cl (l/h/kg) 
0.93 
(0.76, 1.14) 
1.21 
(0.99, 1.48) 
1.11 
(0.94, 1.31) 
1.06 
(0.87, 1.29) 
1.11 
(1.00, 1.23) 
0.80 
(0.69, 0.92) 
t1/2 (h) 
4.47 
(3.81, 5.25) 
2.05 
(1.59, 2.65) 
2.01 
(1.81, 2.22) 
1.97 
(1.62, 2.39) 
1.75 
(1.57, 1.96) 
2.03 
(1.78, 2.31) 
In addition, the list of local representatives in the PL has been revised to amend contact details for the 
representative of Italy. Annex II was also updated in accordance with the latest template. 
2.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
On the basis of the submitted data, the CHMP concluded that the update of the Product Information to 
include  new  paediatric  information  from  new-born  infants  (28  -  44 weeks  gestation)  to  adolescents 
aged  17 years  old,  was  adequate.  The  CHMP  considered  that  this  change  does  not  affect  the  benefit 
risk profile of the product which remains positive. 
3.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following change: 
Variation(s) accepted 
Type 
C.I.4 
Variations related to significant modifications of the SPC 
II 
due in particular to new quality, pre-clinical, clinical or 
pharmacovigilance data 
Update of sections 4.2, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC to revise the paediatric information based on the 
results of new paediatric studies submitted in accordance with article 46 of the Paediatric Regulation. 
Details of the local representative in Italy were updated. Linguistic changes are made in the following 
countries:  Greece,  France,  Italy,  Czech  Republic.  Annex  II  was  also  updated  in  accordance  with  the 
latest template.  
Assessment report - Dexdor 
Page 31/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
