Amsterdam, 19 September 2019 
EMA/547340/2019 
Human Medicines Evaluation Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Dexdor  
dexmedetomidine 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/002268/P46/015 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Information on the development program ............................................................... 3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in studies .................................. 3 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 3 
2.3.2. Clinical studies .................................................................................................. 4 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 14 
3. CHMP overall conclusion and recommendation ...................................... 14 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/547340/2019  
Page 2/14 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On December 2018, the MAH submitted 2 completed paediatric studies for Dexdor (ZIN-DEX-1506 and 
3005031- Pedrux), in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The MAH states that studies ZIN-DEX-1506 and 3005031- Pedrux are stand-alone studies.  
Study ZIN-DEX-1506 was a phase 3, multi-centre, single-arm, open-label study evaluating the 
efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetics (PK) of dexmedetomidine in paediatric patients in the intensive 
care unit. The study was conducted at 12 centres in Japan. 
Study 3005031- Pedrux was a phase 3, multi-centre, single arm, open-label clinical study to 
evaluate safety, tolerability, and efficacy of dexmedetomidine for sedation in paediatric patients in 
intensive care settings. Multi-centre trial conducted in Russia for marketing registration of Dexdor.  
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in studies 
In the study ZIN-DEX-1506, a single vial containing an injection solution of 2 mL of dexmedetomidine 
hydrochloride solution (100 µg/mL as dexmedetomidine) dissolved in physiological saline, was 
provided by the sponsor. Study drug was prepared and dispensed by an appropriately qualified and 
experienced member of the study staff (e.g., physician or pharmacist) as allowed by local, state, and 
institutional guidance. 
Table 1 Study drug description 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted final reports for: 
•  ZIN-DEX-1506 (Protocol C0801017) study. Phase 3, multi-centre, single-arm, open-label 
study evaluating the efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetics of DA-9501 (dexmedetomidine 
hydrochloride) in paediatric subjects in the intensive care unit. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/547340/2019  
Page 3/14 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  3005031- Pedrux study. Open clinical trial to evaluate safety, tolerability, and efficacy of 
Dexdor for sedation in paediatric patients in intensive care settings. Multi-centre trial in Russia 
for marketing registration of Dexdor. 
2.3.2.  Clinical studies 
Clinical study ZIN-DEX-1506 
Description 
Methods 
Objectives 
To evaluate the efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetics (PK) of DA-9501 (dexmedetomidine 
hydrochloride) administered as continuous IV infusion in paediatric subjects who require sedation in 
the intensive care unit. 
Study design 
This study was a phase 3, multi-centre, single-arm, open-label study evaluating the efficacy, safety, 
and pharmacokinetics (PK) of dexmedetomidine administered as continuous IV infusion in paediatric 
subjects aged ≥45 weeks CGA to <17 years old. Study was conducted at 12 study centres in Japan. 
Study population /Sample size 
The target study population was ”paediatric subjects undergoing mechanical ventilation management 
under intensive care and requiring sedation (age ≥45 weeks CGA to <17 years old)” 
Main Exclusion Criteria: Subjects who were judged by investigator or sub-investigator to have a 
neurological disease that made sedation assessment difficult. At the screening period, subjects with 
second- or third- degree heart block in the tests at the screening period (excluding subjects using a 
pacemaker); with low blood pressure (BP) levels in the tests; with bradycardia; with alanine 
aminotransferase 100 U/L in the laboratory tests; with acute febrile illness. Subjects in whom 
dexmedetomidine or other 2 receptor agonists, 2 receptor antagonists and drug that could be used 
in this study were contraindicated. 
The full analysis set (FAS) was composed of all subjects who had received at least 1 dose of the study 
drug. The primary analysis population for efficacy evaluation was FAS. The efficacy evaluation analysis 
set (EE) was a subset of the FAS dataset and included subjects who did not receive any prohibited 
concomitant drug and received continuous IV infusion of the study drug over at least 6 hours. The 
secondary analysis population for efficacy evaluation was EE. 
Treatments 
No initial loading dose was given. Baseline body weight was used to determine the dose of the study 
drug. 
•  ≥45 Weeks CGA to <6 Years Old: Maintenance infusion was started at 0.2 μg/kg/h. The 
infusion rate was adjusted within a range of 0.2 μg/kg/h to 1.4 μg/kg/h according to the 
paediatric subject’s sedative state. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/547340/2019  
Page 4/14 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
•  ≥6 Years to <17 Years Old: Maintenance infusion was started at 0.2 μg/kg/h. The infusion rate 
was adjusted within a range of 0.2 μg/kg/h to 1.0 μg/kg/h according to the paediatric subject’s 
sedative state. 
•  Dosing Duration: Dosing of dexmedetomidine was started after the subject was admitted to 
the ICU. Dosing of dexmedetomidine could be continued after extubation as needed. The 
dosing duration was at least 6 hours in elective surgical subjects and at least 24 hours in 
medical ICU subjects for up to 28 days. 
• 
Target Sedation Depth: The target sedation depths during mechanical ventilation and after 
extubation were shown below. 
-  During mechanical ventilation: SBS -2 to 0; 
-  After extubation: SBS -1 to 0. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary Endpoint(s) 
Percentage of subjects who did not use a rescue sedative (midazolam) during mechanical ventilation to 
achieve/maintain adequate sedation (efficacy percentage) from the start of dexmedetomidine 
administration to 24 hours after the initial administration or conclusion of mechanical ventilation. If the 
mechanical ventilation is concluded within 24 hours of dexmedetomidine administration, the record at 
conclusion of mechanical ventilation will be used for the primary endpoint. 
Secondary Endpoint(s) 
i. From the start of dexmedetomidine administration to 24 hours after the initial administration or 
conclusion of mechanical ventilation when mechanical ventilation is concluded within 24 hours of 
dexmedetomidine administration, 
1. Percentage of subjects who did not require administration of a rescue analgesic (fentanyl) during 
mechanical ventilation in addition to administration of the investigational product. 
2. Dose level corrected for total dose of rescue sedative/analgesic during mechanical ventilation and 
for body weight. 
3. Duration and percentage of maintenance of target sedation level during mechanical ventilation. 
ii. From 24 hours of dexmedetomidine administration to conclusion of mechanical ventilation when 
dexmedetomidine administration exceeds 24 hours, 
4. Percentage of subjects who did not use a rescue sedative(midazolam) during mechanical ventilation 
to maintain/achieve adequate sedation. 
5. Percentage of subjects who did not require dosing of a rescue analgesic(fentanyl) during mechanical 
ventilation in addition to dosing of the investigational product. 
Statistical Methods 
The set of statistics included in, geometric mean, arithmetic mean, median, standard deviation, cv, 
geometric cv, minimum, maximum and the number of concentrations above the lower limit of 
quantification. 
Scatter plot of dexmedetomidine concentration versus vital signs at the end of infusion was generated. 
In addition, the linear regression analysis was performed for investigating the relationship 
(Independent variable: dexmedetomidine concentration, Dependent variable: each vital sign). The 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/547340/2019  
Page 5/14 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
analyses were performed using the REG procedure in SAS. Table of parameters for the linear 
regression including the correlation coefficient were presented. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
A total of 70 subjects were screened, of which 63 subjects were assigned and received study 
treatment. Two (2) male subjects discontinued from the study in the ≥2 years to <6 years age group. 
Subject 10081002 was withdrawn due to SAE of cardiac tamponade which was not related to study 
treatment. Subject 10021004 was withdrawn due to investigator’s judgment. 
Baseline data 
Subjects in full analysis set (FAS) across the age groups were similar in their demographic 
characteristics, with all of the subjects being Asian (Japanese). 
Table 2 Full analysis set 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/547340/2019  
Page 6/14 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3  
Pharmacokinetic results 
The PK analysis population was defined as subjects treated with dexmedetomidine over at least 6 
hours, and with at least 1 plasma concentration measured. The set of statistics included number, 
geometric mean, arithmetic mean, median, SD, coefficient of variation (CV), geometric CV, minimum, 
maximum and the number of concentrations above the lower limit of quantification. 
Number of subjects included in the PK analysis per each age group was the following: 
•  ≥45 week CGA , <12 months (N=11) 
•  ≥12 months, <24 months (N=16) 
•  ≥2 years, <6 years (N=11) 
•  ≥6 years, <17 years (N=8) 
For all patients, maintenance infusion was started at 0.2 μg/kg/h. The infusion rate was adjusted 
within a range of 0.2 µg/kg/h to 1.4 µg/kg/h for ≥45 weeks CGA to <6 years old patients, and 0.2 
µg/kg/h to 1.0 µg/kg/h for ≥6 years to <17 years old patients according to the paediatric patient’s 
sedative state. 
MAH concluded that there were no obvious differences observed among age groups in plasma 
dexmedetomidine concentration-time profiles, and plasma dexmedetomidine concentration at 1 to 2 
hours before the end of dosing or before the start of tapering. Because tapering was done for only 2 
subjects, the effect of tapering on dexmedetomidine PK could not be evaluated. Similar 
dexmedetomidine PK profiles were observed in the presence and absence of midazolam. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/547340/2019  
Page 7/14 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Mean plasma dexmedetomidine concentration-time profiles on linear (upper panel) 
and semi-log graph (lower panel). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/547340/2019  
Page 8/14 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 Plasma dexmedetomidine concentrations at 1 to 2 hours before the end of dosing 
or before the start of tapering. 
In addition, MAH also presented dose-normalised plasma concentrations of dexmedetomidine (Figure 
3). Concentrations were dose normalised by the rate of administration (µg/kg/h) at the sampling time 
or at the end of dosing for the measurements after the end of dosing. 
Figure 3 Dose normalised plasma dexmedetomidine concentration-time profiles (mean 
values, semi-log graph). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/547340/2019  
Page 9/14 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Furthermore, MAH concluded that there were no apparent direct relationships observed between SBS 
score and plasma dexmedetomidine concentration (Figure 4). 
Figure 4 Individual plots for SBS score versus plasma dexmedetomidine concentration 
(pg/mL) before end of dosing. 
Moreover, the relationships between plasma dexmedetomidine concentration and change from baseline 
of four vital signs (systolic blood pressure SBP, diastolic blood pressure DBP, heart rate and respiratory 
rate) at the end of infusion were investigated) The effect of plasma concentration on DBP and 
respiratory rate were not observed. SBP and heart rate appeared to decrease with increasing plasma 
concentration, and it is expected at the median concentration of the end of infusion of 0.784 ng/mL, 
changes in SBP and HR would be -8.4 mmHg and -19.3 bpm, respectively.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/547340/2019  
Page 10/14 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5 Relationships between plasma dexmedetomidine concentration and change from 
baseline of vital signs (Systolic Blood Pressure, Diastolic Blood Pressure, Heart Rate and 
Respiratory Rate) at the end of infusion. 
Efficacy results 
Result of the primary endpoint: overall 77.8% of the patient did not require rescue midazolam for 
additional sedation.  
Table 4 
Secondary endpoints: within 24 h after start of study treatment (or until the end of mechanical 
ventilation, if shorter than 24 h) 88.9% of patients did not require rescue fentanyl. There was only 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/547340/2019  
Page 11/14 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
minimal difference among age groups. The median weight adjusted rescue dose for midazolam was 
0.18 mg/kg, for fentanyl 4.92 μg/kg. A total of 95.2% of patients were in the target sedation level in 
the first period (up to 24 h). Maintenance of the target sedation level was median 60.86%. Over 24 h 
until the end of mechanical ventilation no patient required rescue midazolam or fentanyl. Target 
sedation level was maintained in median 100% of time. From extubation until the end of study drug 
treatment a total of 96.75% of patients were in the target sedation level, the median percentage of 
maintenance of the target sedation level was 57.11. In this period five patients (8.2%) used rescue 
midazolam in median 0.093 mg/kg weight adjusted dose, and one patient received rescue fentanyl, in 
3.0 μg/kg weight adjusted dose. Time from the start of the study drug treatment to conclusion of 
mechanical ventilation was median 6.0 hours. 
Safety results 
A total of 129 all-causalities treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were reported of which 25 
were considered treatment-related by the investigator. Similar proportions of subjects in each age 
group experienced all-causalities TEAEs (78.6% to 88.9%) except for 6 years to <17 years age group 
(100.0%). A total of 25 TEAEs reported by 16 (25.4%) subjects were considered treatment-related by 
the investigator.  
One (1) subject discontinued due to an SAE of moderate cardiac tamponade reported in 2 years to <6 
years age group; considered not related to the treatment by the investigator. Three (3) SAEs in 3 
subjects were reported post-therapy. No severe AEs were reported during the study. None of the 
subjects with dose reduced or temporary discontinuation due to TEAEs were reported. There were no 
deaths among subjects who participated in this study.   
The most frequently reported all-causalities TEAEs by preferred term were hypotension, bradycardia, 
and respiratory depression. Of the subjects who had all-causalities events of hypotension (31 [49.2%] 
subjects), bradycardia (20 [31.7%] subjects) and respiratory depression (17 [27.0%] subjects), 5 
(7.9%), 8 (12.7%) and 2 (3.2%) subjects were considered as treatment-related, respectively. Only 4 
subjects with most common TEAEs (hypotension, bradycardia, and respiratory depression) needed 
interventions: 3 subjects with hypotension were given treatment and 1 subject with respiratory 
depression was given reduced dose of fentanyl. 
Clinical study Pedrux 
Description 
Open clinical trial to evaluate safety, tolerability, and efficacy of Dexdor for sedation in pediatric 
patients in intensive care settings. Multi-centre trial in Russia for marketing registration of Dexdor. 
Methods 
Objective(s) 
• 
• 
Evaluation of efficacy of Dexdor for prolonged sedation in pediatric patients; 
Evaluation of safety and tolerability of Dexdor in pediatric population 
Study design 
An open-label multicentre study including pediatric patients at 12-17 years of age hospitalised in 
intensive care units (ICUs). 
Study population /Sample size 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/547340/2019  
Page 12/14 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
Inclusion criteria (abbreviated): 
1.  Age from 12 to 17 years; 
2.  Clinical need for prolonged (>24 h) light to moderate sedation in ICU patients with 
spontaneous or artificial ventilation  
3.  Negative urine pregnancy test (for female patients); 
Exclusion criteria: 
1.  Acute severe intracranial or spinal neurological disorder due to vascular causes, infection, 
intracranial expansion or injury; any other disorder where sedation assessment is not reliable 
due to any neurological conditions; 
2.  Uncompensated acute circulatory failure  
1.  Severe hypotension or hypertension   
2.  Severe bradycardia or tachycardia  
3.  A/V-conduction block II-III; 
4.  Severe hepatic impairment  
5.  Loss of hearing or vision, or any other condition which would have significantly interfered with 
the collection of study data; 
6.  Use of centrally acting alpha-2 agonists or antagonists in the period less than 5x half-life 
between drug discontinuation and the time of randomisation; 
7.  Patients who had or were expected to have treatment withdrawn or withheld due to poor 
prognosis  
8.  Patients receiving sedatives for therapeutic indications (e.g. epilepsy); 
9.  Patients allergic to dexmedetomidine and rescue medications  
10. Haemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis; 
11. Those requiring deep sedation or neuromuscular blocking agents; 
12. Injuries requiring regular anaesthesia or surgery; burn injuries; 
13. History / family history of malignant hyperthermia; 
14. Patients unlikely to be weaned from the ventilator during the study; 
15. Patients with early-onset ventilator-associated pneumonia; 
16. Any investigational drug within the preceding 30 days; 
17. Any other reason which in the investigator’s opinion would have made it detrimental for the 
subject to participate in the study. 
Treatments 
Dexdor 100 micgrograms/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. Maximal duration of sedation with 
Dexdor was defined as 5 days. 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
60 patients requiring prolonged sedation were enrolled in this study.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/547340/2019  
Page 13/14 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Pharmacokinetics  
The PK analysis was performed in paediatric populations belonging to different age groups from ≥45 
weeks CGA to <17 years. The PK dataset consisted of subjects treated with continuous IV infusion of 
dexmedetomidine over at least 6 hours, and with at least 1 plasma concentration measured. In all 
patients, treatment was initiated with the maintenance infusion at the rate of 0.2 μg/kg/h. The infusion 
rate was then adjusted according to the paediatric patient’s sedative state (based on the target value 
on State Behavioural Scale – SBS score). MAH concluded that there were no obvious differences 
observed among age groups in plasma dexmedetomidine concentration-time profiles. No PK 
parameters were presented for any of the age groups. In addition, MAH concluded that the presence or 
absence of midazolam did not affect plasma exposures of dexmedetomidine. Moreover, MAH concluded 
that there were no apparent direct relationships observed between plasma dexmedetomidine 
concentration and SBS score (no direct PK-PD relationship). Finally, relationships between plasma 
dexmedetomidine concentration and change from baseline of four vital signs (systolic blood pressure 
SBP, diastolic blood pressure DBP, heart rate and respiratory rate) at the end of infusion were 
investigated. MAH stated that the effect of plasma concentration on DBP and respiratory rate were not 
observed, while SBP and heart rate appeared to decrease with increasing plasma concentrations. 
Experimental design involving adjustment of infusion rates for different individuals based on their 
pharmacodynamic responses is challenging in terms of PK interpretations as their final concentration-
time profiles are achieved by different infusion rates. Achievement of steady state plasma 
concentrations before the end of infusion was not discussed by MAH. Dose-normalised PK profiles 
(concentrations divided by the respective infusion rates) still indicated potential differences in 
dexmedetomidine plasma exposures between different age groups, which could also imply potential 
differences in PK parameters. Therefore, MAH was advised to perform estimation of relevant PK 
parameters (primarily CL and half-life) for each age group. MAH is also encouraged to use modelling 
approaches for estimation of PK parameters in order to take into account experimental design with 
different infusion rates administered to different individuals.  
MAH has provided plausible explanations regarding previously noted differences in half-life and CL 
values between SmPC and ZIN-DEX-1506 study. By age-matching study groups and by excluding 
study subjects with insufficient PK sampling, half-life values in the SmPC were comparable with 
corresponding values from the ZIN-DEX-1506 study. Moreover, by re-calculating CL values of ZIN-
DEX-1056 study with simplified approach (CL=R/Css) which did not require estimation of AUCs, a more 
comparable CL values between two studies were obtained.  
Efficacy and safety  
No new efficacy or safety information that justifies regulatory action has been identified. The 
benefit/risk relation remains unchanged and favourable.  
3.  CHMP overall conclusion and recommendation 
The benefit/risk relation remains unchanged and favourable. It was concluded that the ZIN-DEX-1506 
trial conducted in Japanese children did not reveal any unexpected PK parameter values which would 
trigger an update in the current SmPC.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/547340/2019  
Page 14/14 
Classified as public only by the European Medicines Agency 
 
 
 
 
 
