1. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1.1 
Introduction 
Problem statement 
Severe myoclonic epilepsy in infancy (SMEI, Dravet’s Syndrome) is a recently defined condition first 
described  in  1978  by  Dr  C.  Dravet  (Dravet,  1978;  Dravet  et  al,  1982,  1985).  The  condition  has 
recently been designated as Dravet’s syndrome in the last Classification of Epilepsy syndromes by the 
International  League  against  Epilepsy  (ILAE).    It  is  characterised  by  family  history  of  epilepsy  or 
febrile  convulsions,  with  generalised  or  unilateral  seizures  beginning  during  first  year  of  life,  with 
secondary development of myoclonic jerks and partial seizures. Psychomotor development is retarded 
from the second year of life onwards, including development of ataxia, pyramidal signs and interictal 
myoclonus.  Experience  with  this  form  of  epilepsy  shows  it  to  be  very  resistant  to  most  forms  of 
currently available treatment.  
The  prognosis  of  SMEI  is  therefore  very  unfavourable  for  cognitive  development  and  epilepsy.  The 
average  development  quotient  of  most  affected  subjects  varies  between  20-40  after  ~5  years  of  age 
(limited  data).  The  mechanisms  of  the  protracted  impact  on  cognitive  function  in  SMEI  are  still 
unknown.  Several  factors  are  suspected  which  could  each  partly  contribute  to  the  secondary 
appearance of mental retardation in SMEI children: 
a) one of these factors could be the genetic mutation identified in about one third of the patients in the 
SCN1A  gene,  that  codes  for  a  protein  of  sodium  channel  (Nabbout  et  al,  2003).  Nevertheless,  the 
majority of patients with SMEI do not exhibit any mutation in SCN1A and on the other hand, some 
healthy relatives may carry the mutation.  
b)  another  factor  of  cognitive  aggravation  is  likely  the  high  risk  of  prolonged  seizures  resulting  in 
status epilepticus (Dravet et al, 1992): in the Marseille’s neuropsychological series, the age of onset of 
deterioration and its magnitude was related to the frequency and the duration of seizures (Casse-Perrot 
et  al,  2001).  There  is  therefore  a  cognitive  challenge  to  try  to  reduce  seizure  frequency  in  SMEI 
patients. 
Among  childhood  epilepsies,  severe  myoclonic  epilepsy  in  infants  (SMEI)  is  one  of  the  most 
deleterious  epilepsy  syndromes  reported  in  the  syndromic  classification  of  the  International  League 
Against Epilepsy. The stereotyped clinical characteristics and the absence of any cerebral lesion make 
SMEI a nosologically and aetiologically homogeneous syndrome. Seizures appear during the first year 
of  life  and  never  come  under  complete  control  with  conventional  antiepileptic  drugs.  All  children 
develop mental retardation in the second year of life, although development is normal before that time. 
These patients may be worsened by vigabatrin and lamotrigine. 
About the product 
Stiripentol  was  designated  (5  December  2001)  as  an  orphan  drug  for  its  use  in  severe  myoclonic 
epilepsy in infants (SMEI). 
Stiripentol belongs to a family of α-ethylene alcohols with activity in the central nervous system. 
The chemical formula for Stiripentol is 4,4-dimethyl-1-[3,4-(methylendioxy)-phenyl]-1penten-3-ol. 
It  is  a  chiral  molecule  centralised  around  one  asymmetric  carbon  atom  C3.  Both  enantiomers  are 
active, the R (+) enantiomer being ~2.5 times more active than the S (-) enantiomer based on animal 
studies. The drug substance is an equimolar racemate, which has been used in all studies in man. 
The anticonvulsant activity of Stiripentol is not known, but it is supposed that it could be due partly by 
direct anticonvulsant activity related to effects on GABA and also by potentiation of the efficacy of 
some  other  antiepileptics  as  the  result  of  pharmacokinetic  or  pharmacodynamic  interactions.  In 
particular:  a)  stiripentol  does  not  act  as  a  GABA  receptor  agonist  but  instead  it  inhibits  the 
synaptosomal uptake of radiolabelled GABA; b) the effect of stiripentol is based on an inhibition of 
cytochrome  P-450  isoenzymes  involved  in  the  hepatic  catabolism  of  other  antiepileptic  drugs 
(inhibition by stiripentol of several isoenzymes, in particular 3A4, 1A2 and 2C19). 
©EMEA 2007 
1/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The development programme/Compliance with CHMP Guidance /Scientific Advice 
The  product  was  first  identified  by  BIOCODEX,  in  1978  with  early  clinical  development  starting  in 
1980s. Stiripentol has been used in clinical trials in other forms of epilepsy such as Lennox-Gastaut 
syndrome,  and  in  preliminary  studies  that  included  all  forms  of  epileptic  syndromes.  Amongst  all 
these  types  of  epilepsy,  subjects  with  SMEI  appeared  to  have  the  best  response  in  open  studies. 
Preliminary (uncontrolled) studies showed the potential utility of this agent in combination with other 
anti-epileptic agents (AEDs). Subsequent studies demonstrated efficacy in those less than 20 years of 
age and specifically in Lennox-Gastaut syndrome in combination with carbamazepine. The supportive 
data  also  includes  a  compassionate  use  study  and  post  marketing  data  resulting  from  temporary 
authorisation in France for continued compassionate use in approximately 200 patients. 
According  to  the  applicant  ethical  guidelines  prevalent  at  the  time  of  conduct  of  studies  have  been 
followed  as  ICH/GCP  guidance  came  into  force  after  initial  development  of  the  product  had  taken 
place.  
No formal CHMP scientific advice was sought or provided during the development of this product. 
1.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Stiripentol is one of a family of novel α-ethylene alcohols with activity in the central nervous system 
and was granted orphan drug status in 2001 for the treatment of severe myoclonic epilepsy in infancy.  
It is chemically unrelated to all currently marketed antiepileptic drugs.  Diacomit is presented in two 
pharmaceutical  dosage  forms  -  capsules  and  powder  for  oral  suspension  (in  unit  dose  sachets)  each 
containing 250mg and 500mg of stiripentol as active ingredient.   
The capsules are gelatine-based and are packaged in polypropylene bottles with polyethylene closures 
with a tamper-proof tear band.  The powder is packaged in paper/Al/PE sachets. 
The excipients for each presentation and the pack sizes are as defined in the SPC. 
Drug Substance (to be changed in the EPAR to “Active Substance”) 
Stiripentol INN has an asymmetric carbon atom at the 3 position and hence has 2 enantiomers, but is 
produced  as  the  racemate.    It  is  a  white  to  pale  yellow  crystalline  powder,  practically  insoluble  in 
water at 25°C. The log octanol/water partition-coefficient is 2.94. Stiripentol has not been observed to 
exhibit polymorphism. 
•  Manufacture 
Stiripentol  is  synthesised  in  a  simple  two-stage  process  beginning  with  an  aldol  condensation  and 
subsequent reduction of the resulting ketone. This condensation step is reported in literature to largely 
yield the trans isomer, whilst the reduction of the ketone to stiripentol is non-selective and yields the 
racemate.  Confirmation that the trans isomer is initially formed has been provided by spectroscopic 
evidence.    Very  low  levels  of  the  cis-isomer  have  been  detected  in  10  batches.  Satisfactory 
spectroscopic  evidence  has  been  provided  to  confirm  the  structure  of  the  active  substance  which  is 
routinely produced according to the defined synthetic process. The absence of polymorphism has been 
satisfactorily addressed by means of X-ray powder diffraction and DTA studies.   
No  formal  process  validation  data  are  provided.    It  is  argued  that  this  is  a  two-step  process 
manufactured with commercially available raw materials and batch data from 10 commercial batches 
demonstrate  consistency  of  the  process  to  produce  product  with  desired  specifications.    This  is 
accepted.   
The  organic  impurities  arising  from  synthesis  and  degradation  and  residual  solvents  have  been 
investigated,  and  in  general,  impurities  have  been  qualified  with  reference  to  relevant  toxicological 
studies. 
©EMEA 2007 
2/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Specification 
Satisfactory  descriptions  are  provided  for  analytical  methods.    Most  are  standard  pharmacopoeia 
procedures.  In-house methods are described for identification (HPLC, IR and colour reaction), related 
substances (HPLC), residual solvents (GC) and assay (HPLC). 
Because of the low aqueous solubility, particle size is controlled by a laser light scattering method. 
Batch  analytical  results  for  10  pilot/production  scale  batches  manufactured  at  the  proposed 
manufacturing  site  have  been  provided.  These  data  confirm  compliance  with  the  proposed 
specification.  None of the named impurities in the impurity studies have been detected in batches so 
far.   
•  Stability of the Active Substance 
Forced  degradation  studies  show  that  stiripentol  in  the  solid  state  is  stable  to  high  temperatures  and 
light,  and  in  solution  it  is  stable  to  basic  and  oxidising  conditions.    Stiripentol  as  an  aqueous 
suspension  at  pH  5  is  stable  at  high  temperatures.  Stiripentol  is  also  stable  in  a  range  of  solvents 
(cyclohexane,  toluene,  methanol  and  ethanol)  heated  to  reflux.    However  under  acidic  conditions, 
instability is noted.   
Formal stability studies have been performed on production scale batches. Results for up to 24 months 
under long-term conditions (25ºC/60% RH) and 12 months at accelerated conditions (40ºC/75% RH) 
have been provided.  Parameters monitored are appearance, identification (HPLC, IR), appearance of 
solution,  loss  on  drying,  degradation  impurities  and  assay.    The  analytical  methods  are  stability-
indicating and are the same as those used for routine quality control.    
Medicinal Products 
1. Capsules 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Studies have naturally focussed on the solid-state properties of the active substance, e.g. particle size 
control and polymorphism. Solid state active-excipient compatibility studies with a range of excipients 
under elevated temperatures has been investigated and no evidence of incompatibility was noted with 
the excipients finally selected.  Starch and PVP were tested as binders and PVP selected as it yielded 
granules  with  good  flow  with  minimal  variation  in  density.    Sodium  starch  glycolate  is  added  as 
disintegrant and is incorporated intra- (1%) and extra-granularly (0.5%).  Magnesium stearate added 
extra-granularly is used as lubricant at a level of 0.5%.  Excipients used are standard pharmacopoeial 
ingredients for solid-dose preparations.   
Stiripentol is practically insoluble in water, but is well absorbed following oral administration. Thus 
since the particle size is controlled, the rate determining step is likely to be dissolution. Originally a 
hydroalcoholic  dissolution  medium  was  developed  for  routine  quality  control  although  this  was 
replaced  with  an  aqueous  sodium  laurilsulphate  solution  which  gives  better  discriminatory  power 
between batches with different active substance particle sizes. 
•  Adventitious Agents  
Magnesium  stearate  used  is  of  vegetable  origin,  and  EDQM  Certificates  of  Suitability  have  been 
supplied for the gelatine used in the capsule shells.   
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process  is  relatively  straightforward  and  involves  standard  pharmaceutical  unit 
operations:  mixing,  granulation, 
tray  oven  drying,  screening,  extra-granular  blending  and 
encapsulation  before  final  packaging.    The  process  and  equipment  have  been  adequately  described.  
In-process controls are satisfactory for the processes described. 
©EMEA 2007 
3/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Product Specification 
The specification is relevant for a product of this type and includes validated tests for identity of active 
substance, assay (HPLC), uniformity of mass (Ph. Eur.), disintegration time, dissolution in an aqueous 
medium  containing  sodium  laurilsulphate,  and  impurities  (HPLC).  Batch  analytical  profiles  of  three 
batches  of  each  strength  are  provided  and  show  satisfactory  uniformity  and  compliance  with  the 
agreed specification, indicating that the process is under control. 
•  Stability of the Product  
Stability Data are presented for up to 36 months at 25˚C and 12 months at 40˚C.  Apart from one batch 
of the 500mg capsules that showed a reduction in disintegration time, no trends or significant changes 
in  appearance,  disintegration  time,  mean  dissolution  at  60  minutes,  assay,  named  and  unknown 
impurities are noted with all other batches. In the absence of a formal photostability study to confirm 
photostability of the finished product, a requirement to store in the original package/outer container is 
considered appropriate.   
In total, the stability results generated so far support the shelf life and storage conditions as defined in 
the SPC. 
2. Powder for Oral Suspension 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The same granule formulation (i.e. active, PVP and portion of sodium starch glycolate) used for the 
capsule formulation has been chosen for development with additional excipients added to the external 
phase  to  obtain  the  final  powder  blend.    The  functions  of  added  excipients  are  well-known  and 
standard.    Carmellose  sodium  and  hydroxyethylcellulose,  as  viscosity  modifying  agents  to  ensure 
dispersion  in  a  glass  of  water,  dehydrated  glucose  syrup  as  diluent  and  aspartame  as  sweetener. 
Flavours and colour have been added to improve taste, appearance and to improve compliance.    
The powder for oral suspension has been developed as an alternative to the capsule formulation, and 
therefore attention has focussed on demonstration of bioequivalence and interchangeability.   
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacture  of  the  powder  for  oral  suspension  also  follows  standard  pharmaceutical  processes 
involving  mixing,  granulation,  tray  oven  drying,  screening/milling,  extra  granular  blending,  sachet 
filling  and  sealing  before  final  packaging.      In-process  controls  for  the  granule  manufacture  are 
basically the same as those for the capsules and these are satisfactory for the processes described. 
•  Product Specification 
The specification is relevant for a product of this type and includes validated tests for identity of active 
substance, assay (HPLC), uniformity of mass of sachet contents (Ph. Eur.), and impurities (HPLC). In 
addition a test for dissolution has been added, considering the low solubility of the active substance. 
Batch  analytical  profiles  of  three  batches  of  each  strength  are  provided  and  show  satisfactory 
uniformity and compliance with the agreed specification, indicating that the process is under control. 
•  Stability of the Product  
Stability  studies  have  been  performed  on  two  batches  of  the  250mg  sachet  and  two  batches  of  the 
500mg  packaged  in  the  intended  commercial  packaging.    The  studies  were  carried  out  under 
conditions  in  accordance  with  ICH  recommendations;  at  25˚C/60%RH  for  long-term  testing  and 
40˚C/75%RH  for  accelerated  testing.    Samples  were  tested  for  appearance,  assay,  impurities, 
dissolution and microbiological quality.  
©EMEA 2007 
4/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability results up to 48 months at 25˚C and 12 months at 40˚C are submitted. No trends or significant 
changes in appearance, assay, or impurities are noted on storage under real time or accelerated storage 
conditions. Microbial content is low and no changes are noted on storage.    
The results generated so far support the shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The synthesis and control of the active substance has been described in a satisfactory manner and the 
stability has been demonstrated. Concerning the two pharmaceutical forms, these are standard and the 
development, manufacture, and control of the formulations has been carried out in a satisfactory way, 
bearing  in  mind  the  low  aqueous  solubility  of  the  active  substance.  Stability  results  allow  suitable 
storage conditions and a realistic shelf life. 
In  all,  the  batch  results  generated  so  far  indicate  that  the  products  are  under  good  control  with  low 
batch variability, and should perform in a consistent manner in the clinic. 
1.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Most of the non-clinical studies were conducted according to GLP guidelines. Those conducted before 
the start of GLP requirements (mainly embryo-foetal studies) were considered of adequate standard. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
In vitro studies 
According to the in vitro receptor binding study by Poisson et al, 1984 (published study), stiripentol 
did not show any affinity for GABA A or B, glycinergic or benzodiazepine receptors up to the µmolar 
range. In the same study, stiripentol was found to reduce synaptosomal GABA uptake (IC50 5x10-5) 
and  to  slightly  increase  (+22%)  brain  concentrations  of  GABA  after  “in  vivo”  administration  (300 
mg/kg i.p.).  
In this respect, the R(+) enantiomer is thought to be the more active by a factor of about 2. 
A  recent  publication  (Quilichini  et  al  2006)  reports  effects  of  stiripentol  on  isolated  GABA 
transmission  in  postnatal  rat  hippocampal  neurons.  Experiments  were  performed  on  hippocampal 
slices  taken  from  Wistar  rats  between  postnatal  days  7  and  8.  In  this  model,  stiripentol  markedly 
enhances  GABA  release  and  prolongs  GABAA  receptor-mediated  currents.  Stiripentol  increases  the 
mean  open  duration  of  GABAA  receptor-dependent  chloride  channels  by  a  barbiturate-like 
mechanism. 
In Vivo Studies 
Since no specific experimental models of SMEI exist, the models of generalized seizures used can be 
considered acceptable.  
In a wide variety of in vivo models using mice, rats and primates stiripentol itself consistently showed 
anticonvulsant activity but with variability between models. 
From  the  few  studies  in  which  the  anticonvulsant activity  of oral  stiripentol  was  examined  (in  most 
cases the drug was administered i.p.), an ED50 of 300-800 mg/kg in mice and around 400 mg/kg in rats 
can be extrapolated.  
Although  stiripentol  has  been  shown  to  inhibit  slightly  the  uptake  of  glycine  and  GABA  by 
synaptosomes this is thought to be only a minor component - if a component at all - of its antiepileptic 
activity in clinical use. The mechanism of the anticonvulsant effects of stiripentol remains unclear.  
©EMEA 2007 
5/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interactions with other anticonvulsant drugs 
The main component of the activity of stiripentol is considered to be the inhibitory effect on CYP450 
enzymes which in combination therapy leads to reduced metabolism of other anticonvulsant drugs. 
The ability of stiripentol to potentiate the activity of other anticonvulsants was evaluated. In the model 
of PTZ-induced seizures in mice, stiripentol (100-200 mg/kg i.p.) increased the anticonvulsant effects 
of  low  to  moderate  doses  of  valproate,  diazepam,  valproate  +  diazepam,  valproate  +  phenobarbital. 
Some potentiation of the effects of phenytoin was observed in the model of electroshock in rats. The 
effects of carbamazepine were very slightly increased. No statistical analysis was performed. 
Therefore, the proof of efficacy (through pharmacodynamic interactions) of stiripentol in combination 
with anticonvulsant drugs should be derived from the clinical data. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics and Safety pharmacology 
Nervous  system.  The  effects  of  stiripentol  on  the  CNS  were  mainly  the  occurrence  of  sedation  and 
ataxia  in  the  same  doses  range  as  for  the  anticonvulsant  effects.  Stiripentol  also  markedly enhanced 
the  central  depressant  effect  of  chlorpromazine,  possibly  based  on  its  own  central  depressant  effect 
rather than metabolic interaction.  
At  doses  of  200  mg/kg  i.p.  or  150-200  mg/kg  p.o.,  stiripentol  reduces  reserpine-induced  palpebral 
ptosis. Such an effect was evident up to 3 hours after i.p. injection of stiripentol. Stiripentol 200 mg/kg 
i.p. did not potentiate amphetamine-induced stereotypies.  
The  possible  anxiolytic  effects  of  stiripentol  were  evaluated  in  the  four-plate  test  in  rats.  Although 
stiripentol increased animals’ activity at the dose of 50 mg/kg i.p. (an index of anxiolytic activity), the 
drug reduced the effects of diazepam in the same model.  
Ethanol-induced narcosis was potentiated by both single and repeated (over 5 days) administration of 
200-400  mg/kg  i.p.  stiripentol.  The  compound  was  however  less  potent  than  diazepam  in  this  test.  
Narcosis  induced  by  benzodiazepines  was  potentiated  as  well  by  stiripentol  100  and  200  mg/kg  i.p. 
The analgesic properties of stiripentol have not been demonstrated given the lack of a control group in 
the hot plate test and the absence of statistical analysis in studies on the potentiation of the analgesic 
effects of codeine and glafenine. 
At  doses  of  250-1000  mg/kg  p.o.  in  mice,  stiripentol  reduced  and  increased  basal  motor  activity  if 
administered 30 min-2 hours and 3-4 hours before the test. A dose-dependent depression of locomotor 
activity  was  observed  in  the  open  field  test  at  doses  of  50-200  mg/kg  i.p.  At  200  mg/kg  i.p.,  a 
reduction  in  aggressiveness  in  mice  was  found.  Up  to  the  dose  of  200  mg/kg,  the  drug  did  not 
influence the acquisition of a conditioned reflex or muscle tone in mice. In the rota-rod test, stiripentol 
was dose-dependently active at doses of 200-600 mg/kg i.p.  
Hypothermia was induced in mice at 200 mg/kg i.p. 
Cardiovascular  effects.  In  rats,  stiripentol  100  mg/kg  i.p.  did  not  affect  capillary  permeability  or 
resistance. Administered at doses of 2.5, 5 and 10 mg/kg i.v. in dogs, reduced blood pressure and heart 
rate and increased vertebral artery flow and brain oxygen consumption.  
Furthermore,  no  treatment-related  electrocardiographic  changes  were  observed  in  the  repeat-dose 
toxicity studies up to 6 month in monkeys.  
At the request of the CHMP, the applicant explained further the potential for cardiovascular effects. In 
the literature  (Danielsson and al, 1998, 2003,2005), cardiovascular effects (and birth defects) due to 
activity  on  hERG  channels  are  described  for  cation-channel  active  AEDs  such  as  lamotrigine, 
phenytoin, phenobarbital and carbamazepine, but not for AEDs non-active on cation-channels such as 
gabapentin  or  valproic  acid.  Therefore,  due  to  its  mechanism  of  action,  stiripentol,  would  not  be 
expected  to  have  such  effects  on  the  cardiovascular  system.  This  is  supported  by  the  absence  of 
cardio-vascular findings in the clinical trials. 
Blood.  Administered  at  doses  of  100 mg/kg  i.p.,  stiripentol  did not  affect  clotting  time  in  rabbits  or 
bleeding time in guinea pigs. 
Gastrointestinal  tract.  At  doses  of  200  mg/kg  i.p.  or  400  mg/kg  p.o.,  stiripentol  did  not  influence 
intestinal  transit  or  faeces  production  in  mice.  No  ulcerogenic  effect  was  seen  in  rats  given  
2000 mg/kg p.o... 
©EMEA 2007 
6/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Urine and bile output. Stiripentol did not influence urine output up to 200 mg/kg i.p. or 750 mg/kg p.o. 
in  rats.  In  the  same  species,  bile  output  was  not  influenced  by  the  intraduodenal  administration  of  
100 mg/kg. 
Endocrine system: no effects were observed at 200 mg/kg p.o. 
Overall, there were no findings of potential clinical concern in the secondary pharmacodynamics and 
safety pharmacology programmes. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The  influence  of  stiripentol  on  the  blood  levels  and/or  on  the  effects  of  several  other  drugs  was 
studied.  
Lidocaine,  but  not  lithium  levels  were  increased.  Stiripentol  did  not  influence  the  latency  or  the 
magnitude of the hypnogenic effects of halotane, nor the toxicity induced by digitoxin or imipramine. 
Stiripentol did not potentiate dihydroergatamine-induced acute toxicity, on the contrary, it reduced its 
toxicity. 
The effects of acenocoumarol and phenindione on prothrombin levels were potentiated by stiripentol. 
The  hypoglycemic  effects  of  glibenclamide  were  also  potentiated.  Salbutamol-induced  tachycardia 
was slightly potentiated. Stiripentol enhanced the myorelaxation induced by diazepam. 
Conversely there was no interaction with ethynyloestradiol, atenolol or labetalol. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of stiripentol were determined by analysis of radioactivity after administration 
of 14C and 3H radiolabelled stiripentol, and by HPLC when unlabelled stiripentol was administered. 
Proton  magnetic  resonance  (1H-NMR)  and  HPLC  were  employed  to  identify  and  determine  the 
enantiomers of stiripentol.  
Absorption 
Following oral administration of the racemate, absorption in the monkey (21%) was less than that in 
the  rat  (60-70%).  In  the  latter  species  the  mechanisms  underlying  absorption  from  the  GI  tract 
included  stereoselective  processes  that  lead  to  an  enrichment  of  the  less  active  S(-)  enantiomer  in 
plasma. 
The  relationship  between  plasma  levels  and  anticonvulsant  effects  of  stiripentol  was  studied  in  rats. 
Stiripentol was administered i.v. (20 mg/kg) or p.o. (300, 600, 800 mg/kg), and then the animals were 
treated  with  PTZ  (70  mg/kg  s.c.)  at  different  time  points  (up  to  2  or  24  hours  after  i.v.  and  p.o. 
stiripentol,  respectively).  No  formal  calculation  of  the  main  pharmacokinetic  parameters  (Cmax, 
Tmax, AUC and t1/2) was done. After i.v. injection, the highest levels of stiripentol (25 µg/ml) were 
reached after 10 min, followed by a progressive decrease and then by a plateau at 4-6 hours. After oral 
administration,  maximum  plasma  levels  were  not  clearly  dose-dependent:  34,  81  and  71  µg/ml 
following  doses  of  300,  600  and  800  mg/kg,  respectively.  At  all  doses,  the  maximal  levels  were 
reached  around  8  hours  after  the  administration.  Measurable  levels  (around  25  µg/ml)  were  still 
present 24 hours after the administration of 600 and 800, but not 300 mg/kg. 
Distribution 
Distribution  studies  are  limited  to  the  rat,  both  pregnant  and  non-pregnant.  Following  oral 
administration, the highest concentrations were found in liver, adrenal gland and mammary gland. The 
brain concentrations were lower than those in blood in both animal groups. Measurable concentrations 
were found in fetuses, although they were approximately 2.7 folds lower than those in blood. 
Metabolism 
Zhang et al, 1990 showed that stiripentol (200 mg/kg p.o.) undergoes extensive metabolism to a series 
of  products  which  are  excreted  by  urine.  In  this  regard,  the  metabolic  fate  of  stiripentol  in  rats  is 
similar to that in humans, since all the 13 urinary metabolites found in humans in previous studies are 
also present in rat urine.  
©EMEA 2007 
7/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The metabolism of stiripentol involves five metabolic pathways,  (1) conjugation with glucuronic acid, 
(2)  oxidative  cleavage  of  the  methylenedioxy  ring,  (3)  O-methylation  of  catechol  metabolites,  
(4)  hydroxylation  of  the  t-butyl  group,  and  (5)  conversion  of  the  allylic  alcohol  side-chain  to  the 
isomeric  3-pentanone  structure.  Oxidative  cleavage  of  the  methylenedioxy  ring  generating  catechol 
derivatives  represented  the  major  quantitative  route  of  biotransformation  in  rats  and  humans.  In 
contrast  to  humans,  however,  rats  excreted  a  very  little  amount  of  the  glucuronide  conjugate,  while 
displaying a greater ability to metabolise stiripentol by oxidative routes. 
Studies on the P450-inhibitory profile of stiripentol. 
The  effects  of  stiripentol  on  different  enzymatic  activities  have  been  studied  in  hepatic  microsomes 
obtained from animals (rats and mice of both sexes) treated in vivo with three different doses of the 
drug. Many enzymatic activities were induced by stiripentol at the highest dose (800 and 600 mg/kg in 
rats and mice, respectively), and, to a lesser extent, by the intermediate doses (220 and 200 mg/kg). 
The  main  effect  concerned  EROD  activity,  while  phenacetin  de-ethylase  (another  activity 
characterizing the CYP 1A2) was induced to a lesser extent. Some enzymes (such as those relevant to 
CYP  2C  and  CYP  2D6)  were  significantly  inhibited.  Important  sex  and  species  differences  were 
observed.  In  general,  the  induction  of  enzymatic  activities  was  weaker  with  respect  to  that  of  the 
reference compounds (phenobarbital and α–naphtoflavone). 
Mesnil  et  al,  1988  determined  the  effects  of  stiripentol  on  rat  brain  cytochrome  P-450-mediated 
naphthalene  hydroxylation  in  vitro.  A  concentration-dependent  inhibition  of  the  hydroxylation 
reaction  was  observed  (IC50:  1.21  µM).  In  an  ex-vivo  study,  rats  were  administered  with  stiripentol  
100  mg/kg  i.p.  and  then  sacrificed  at  different  time  points  to  measure  the  inhibition  of  naphthalene 
hydroxylation  in  microsomal  fractions  of  brain  homogenates.  The  highest  inhibition  (71%)  was 
observed 2 hours after dosing. 
Stiripentol both inhibits (rat brain cytochrome P450-mediated naphthalene hydroxylase inhibition) and 
induces (CYP1A2, 3A, 2C) enzyme activity. 
Excretion 
Tang et al, 1994 examined the faecal excretion of the stiripentol enantiomers after oral administration 
to rats. When the racemate was administered, approximately one third of the administered dose was 
found in faeces suggesting incomplete absorption. Faecal excretion was 14% and 4% of the total dose 
after  administration  of  the  S  (-)  and  R(+)  enantiomers,  respectively.  Irrespective  of  the  enantiomer 
administered,  faecal  stiripentol  consisted  almost  exclusively  of  the  R(+)  enantiomer.  Stereoselective 
absorption and/or conversion within the gastrointestinal tract were proposed as possible mechanisms 
for this phenomenon. 
Lin  and  Levy,  1983,  showed  that,  in  monkeys  treated  with  different  i.v.  (40-120  mg/kg),  oral 
(80 mg/kg)  or  i.p.  (80  and  120  mg/kg)  doses  of  stiripentol,  the  percentage  of  the  dose  excreted  as 
glucuronide in urine was between 32.2 and 40.5 irrespective of the route of administration. More than 
70%  of  the  total  dose  was  excreted  in  urine  within  2  hours,  80%  within  4  hours  and  93%  within  
8 hours. The fraction of dose excreted unchanged in urine ranged between 0 and 3%. 
The ability of stiripentol to pass into the milk was examined in lactating goats. Following a single or 
repeated doses (200 mg/kg p.o. over 7 days), stiripentol passed rapidly into the milk. A steady state 
was reached after the second administration and the milk/plasma ratio was around 1. 
Toxicology 
• 
Single dose toxicity 
Stiripentol exhibited low acute toxicity as indicated in the table below: 
Species 
mouse 
mouse 
mouse 
Route of administration 
oral 
iv 
ip 
LD50 (mg/kg) 
3000-5000 
72-78 
ca.1500 
©EMEA 2007 
8/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rat 
rat 
oral 
ip 
>3000 
1000-1500 
The  main  findings  were  clinical  signs  consistent  with  effects  on  the  CNS  (agitation/sedation, 
hypothermia, convulsions, respiratory depression). 
• 
Repeat-dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeated-dose oral toxicity studies were conducted in mouse, rat and Cynomolgus monkey.  
Mice were dosed for 13 weeks with 0, 60 and 800 mg/kg/day. 
In the rat, two 6 month oral studies were conducted: the first, non-GLP, in the Wistar rat at doses of  
0, 30, 60, 300 mg/kg/day and the second in the SD rat at doses of 0, 80, 220 and 800 mg/kg/day. 
In  monkeys,  a  4-week  study  (from  100  to  900  mg/kg/day)  and  a  26-week  study  (100  to  600 
mg/kg/day) were conducted.  
The  liver  was  a  target  organ  in  all  three  species.  Increased  liver  weight  with  hepatocellular 
hypertrophy  was  a  common  finding  at  mid  and  high  doses  with  reduced  ALP  and  ALAT  activities. 
These findings were interpreted as the consequence of an adaptive response to an increased “metabolic 
load”  as  evidenced  by  significant  liver  microsomal  enzyme  induction  at  doses  >  200  mg/kg/day  in 
rodents (Guyomard and Chesné, 1994).  
The kidney was also a target organ in rats and monkeys with signs of tubular nephrosis at high doses. 
However, the clinical relevance of these findings is considered to be unlikely.  
The  NOEL  (no  observed  effect  level)  was  defined  as  80mg/kg  in  rats  and  100  mg/kg  in  monkeys 
corresponding to a Cmax of 5-10 µg/ml in plasma. 
• 
Genotoxicity 
A  complete  programme  comprising  bacterial  and  mammalian  cell  mutation  tests  (Ames,  V79) 
clastogenicity  tests  (chromosome  aberration  in  CHO  cells  and  human  lymphocytes),  in  vitro  UDS 
assay in rodents hepatocytes and an in vivo mouse micronucleus test an were conducted. 
Stiripentol  was  clastogenic  at  cytotoxic  concentrations  only  (CHO  cells).  All  the  other  tests  were 
negative  although  the  Ames  test  was  limited  in  terms  of  strains  and  species  used  (E.  coli  and 
Salmonella TA 102 not included). Overall, there was no evidence of genotoxicity. 
• 
Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity studies were conducted in mice (78 weeks) and rats (102 weeks). 
In the mouse study there was an increase in the incidence of hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas 
secondary to hepatocellular hypertrophy in the mid- and high-dose groups as shown below: 
1and 2: P<0.005 vs. control (Peto trend test, one-tailed).  3: Exposure margin was calculated with respect 
to an estimated adult human exposure of 16.5 µg/ml after 50 mg/kg. 
©EMEA 2007 
9/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  applicant  pointed  out  that  the  liver  tumours  arise  as  the  result  of  an  epigenetic  mechanism  and 
such  findings  have  been  well-documented  following  the  administration  of  enzyme  inducers  such  as 
stiripentol to mice.  
Further rationalisation is supported by published data suggesting that hepatocellular neoplasia in mice 
associated  with  metabolic  activation/phenobarbitol-like  promotion  is  of  limited  significance  with 
regard to human safety. Among them, a statement in the ICH Guideline S1B: ‘the high susceptibility 
of  mouse  liver  to  nongenotoxic  chemicals  has  been  the  subject  of  many  symposia  and  workshops.  
These  have  concluded  that  these  tumours  may  not  always  have  relevance  to  carcinogenic  risk  to 
humans and can potentially be misleading’ 
In  the  rat  carcinogenicity,  there  were  also  adverse  hepatic  effects  (centrilobular  hepatocellular 
hypertrophy) but no evidence of increased frequency of tumour formation in the liver or in any other 
organ. 
Notwithstanding  the  above  explanations  of  the  adverse  findings  in  the  mouse  study,  the  lack  of  any 
exposure margin at the NOEL remained a concern for CHMP since extrapolation to man on this basis 
would lead to an ineffective clinical dose. At the request of the CHMP, the applicant further addressed 
in more details the mouse oncogenicity results. The CHMP concluded that, considering the relatively 
weak  oncogenic  potential  and  the  known  mechanism,  together  with  the  proposed  indication,  the 
risk:benefit would be acceptable with a suitable statement in the SPC. 
• 
Reproduction Toxicity 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity has been assessed in rats, mice and rabbits.   
In  the  fertility  and  early  embryonic  development,  apart  from  non-specific  signs  such  as  delayed 
ossification  and  increased  pup  mortality  at  the  high  dose  (800mg/kg),  there  was  no  indication  of 
adverse effects on fertility, embryo-fetal development and post-natal development. 
In embryo-fetal development studies in mice, the increased incidence of cleft palate observed in one 
study at 200 and 300 mg/kg/day, was not confirmed in further studies in mice (5 in total). There was 
also no evidence of teratogenicity in a rabbit study. 
Although  the  initial  positive  study  is  probably  of  no  relevance  to  the  infant  patient  population,  this 
finding is mentioned in the SPC. 
Finally,  in  the  second  of  two  pre-  and  post-natal  studies  in  the  rat,  there  was  increased  mortality  in 
both dams and pups. There was no evidence of teratogenicity in the first study in which dams were 
dosed during the entire period of organogenesis. 
This effect on pup viability is not an unusual finding with CNS-active agents. This is not considered to 
be relevant to the infant patient population. 
• 
Toxicokinetic data 
Limited  toxicokinetic  data  are  available  from  a  few  studies  consisting  in  values  for  Cmax  only 
(usually  1-2  hours  post-dosing)  and  not  AUC.  In  general,  safety  margins  compared  to  humans 
(concentration of 16.5 µg/ml after 50 mg/kg) are low or non-existent (1 to 3.5x). 
• 
Other toxicity studies 
There was no evidence of immunotoxicity in the repeated-dose toxicity studies. 
A single dose study with impurities did not induce any signs of toxicity or mortality. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The calculation of the PEC surface water resulted in a value below the trigger value of 0.01 µg/l defined in 
the  CHMP  guideline  (CHMP/SWP/4447/00).  The  calculation  was  based  on  a  refined  Fpen  of 
©EMEA 2007 
10/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.00034%  considering  the  market  penetration  as  a  third  of  the  incidence  of  the  disease  (0.1/10000). 
The daily dose of 2g/patient was assumed. 
The product having a low Log Kow, does not have potential bioaccumulative properties. Furthermore 
the  extensive  metabolism  into  readily  biodegradable  catechol  or  similar  metabolites  further  reduces 
the potential risks to the environment. 
It was therefore concluded that the use of stiripentol in SMEI patients does not represent a risk for the 
environment and do not require specific labelling for the environment. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacology 
In  vitro  and  in  vivo  experiments  demonstrated  that  stiripentol  itself  has  pharmacodynamic  activity 
consistent with a potential therapeutic effect in the proposed application.  This consisted of inhibition 
of glycine and GABA uptake by synaptosomes. The R(+) enantiomer was more potent by a factor of 
two. 
This  however,  is  probably  a  minor  component  of  the  anticonvulsant  activity  of  stiripentol,  which  is 
considered to result mainly from the inhibition of enzymes responsible for the metabolism of existing 
anti-epileptic medications.  
There were no findings of clinical concern in a full programme of safety pharmacology studies. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The ADME profile of stiripentol has been adequately characterised.  
Stereoselective  processes  in  the  GI  tract  lead  to  an  enrichment  of  the  S(-)  enantiomer  in  plasma. 
Stiripentol both inhibits (rat brain cytochrome P450-mediated naphthalene hydroxylase inhibition) and 
induces (CYP1A2, 3A, 2C) enzyme activity. 
The  few  toxicokinetic  data  indicate  that  safety  margins  with  respect  to  adverse  effects  observed  in 
toxicity  studies  are  low  or  non-existent.    Unfortunately,  these  are  based  on  Cmax,  there  being  no 
measurement of AUC. Nevertheless, there are no issues of potential clinical concern. 
Toxicology 
A  full  programme  of  toxicity  studies  has  been  submitted.    The  only  finding  of  potential  clinical 
concern was the formation of hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas in the mouse carcinogenicity 
study.  In  spite  of  the  lack  of  any  exposure  margin  at  the  NOEL,  the  CHMP  concluded  that, 
considering  the  relatively  weak  oncogenic  potential  and  the  known  mechanism,  together  with  the 
proposed indication, the risk:benefit was acceptable with a suitable statement in the SPC. 
1.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  development  programme  has  lasted  ~25  years  and  a  number  of  clinical  studies  were  initiated 
before  the  current  ICH/GCP  guidelines  came  into  force.  However,  according  to  the  applicant,  the 
studies followed all ethical guidelines in practice at the time of conduct of the studies.  
Pharmacokinetics 
The majority of the kinetic studies with Stiripentol were conducted in the 1980s and these have been 
appended as publications (papers) or summary study reports. Detailed study analyses are not available 
for a large majority. 
There are four main pharmacokinetic studies in healthy volunteers (Levy 1893 and 1984b, STI UNI 
study)  conducted  in  the  1980s  to  determine  the  bioavailability,  non-linearity  and  enantiomer 
metabolism (BC 287) included in the dossier. Other studies are either in epileptics or healthy volunteer 
(HV) for interaction, efficacy or safety where-in kinetics have been assessed (Levy 1984a, Levy 1985, 
Kerr 1991, etc).   
Stiripentol has not been studied in monotherapy.  
©EMEA 2007 
11/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Absorption  
is  variable  and 
The  bioavailability  of  stiripentol 
is 
apparently  dependent  on  the  formulation.  The  powder  or 
granules for suspension have lower bioavailability (21±9%) 
relative  to  the  capsule.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  active 
agent  has  a  significant  degree  of  degradation  in  acid 
environment  
(pH  1.0).  Due  to  the  lack  of  bioavailability  of  stiripentol 
between  formulations  (powder/granules  for  suspension  and 
a 
capsules), 
bioequivalence  study  between  the  capsule  and  the  powder  /sachet  formulations  as  part  of  post-
authorisation a specific obligation. 
committed 
applicant 
conduct 
the 
to 
• 
Distribution and elimination 
Stiripentol  has  a  large  volume  of  distribution  and  a  dose  disproportional  clearance.  A  dose  increase 
from 600 to 1200mg/d resulted in 235% rise in Css while a dose increase from 1200 to 2400mg/d was 
associated 397% rise. The oral clearance was 41.5±23.4 l/d/kg (600mg), 20.3±8.8l/d/kg (1200mg) and 
8.5±3.8l/kg/d  (2400mg)  respectively.  A  significantly  large  intersubject  variability  was  noted  
(300-400%).  There  are  limited  data  in  children  regarding  distribution  and  elimination  and  it  is 
unknown  whether  anticonvulsants  with  high  protein  binding  affinity  will  displace  stiripentol  
(99% bound) from plasma proteins influencing safety and efficacy.  
• 
Metabolism 
Stiripentol  is  a  racemate  (administered  in  the  clinical  studies)  with  enantiomers  that  are 
interconvertible,  albeit  at  different  rates.  The  proportion  of  interconversion  varies  depending  on  the 
enantiomer  administered.  These  may  have  a  bearing  on  the  administration  of  racemate  as  R 
enantiomer  is  more  potent.  However  in  the  clinical  programme,  there  is  neither  evidence  that 
interconversion  is  affected  by  non-linearity  of  metabolism  nor  a  particular  enantiomer  is  related  to 
adverse events or safety. 
In man, stiripentol is metabolised extensively, with 13 urinary metabolites accounting for ~70% of the 
oral dose. There are no active metabolites identified in man. 
• 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
The kinetics and linearity of Stiripentol were studied in two main studies; Levy et al 1983 and STIUNI 
study. 
Both  compartmental  and  non-compartmental  approaches  were  used  for  calculation  of  kinetic 
parameters (Cmax, AUC, AUCinf, T1/2, Tmax, and MRT). With the compartmental model, the t1/2 
could  not  be  determined  after  500  mg  dose,  but  with  the  half-life  independent  model,  this  was 
possible.  
Table-4a: Kinetics in a two-compartment model.  
model 
500mg 
(n=6) 
3.1 ± 0.9 
1000mg 
(n=12) 
7.1 ±1.9 
2000mg 
(n=12) 
13.2 ±3.6 
2.7 ±1.0 
2.7 ±1.3 
3.3±1.0 
4.4 ±2.1 
10.1 ± 3.3 
13.7 ± 6.2 
CmaxSTP 
Tmax 
T1/2 β 
AUC0-inf 
9.9± 3.4  
31.1 ±10.9 
Lag time 
0.87 ±0.55 
0.51 ±0.46 
87.7 
±27.7 
0.48±0.33 
AUC0-30H 
8.85 ±3.77 
MRT 
©EMEA 2007 
Table -4b: Kinetics in a non-compartmental 
 model; 
500mg  
1000mg   2000mg 
CmaxSTP 
2.63 ±1.18 
2.342 ±0.76 
Tmax 
T1/2 β 
6.63 
±1.83 
2.42 
±1.00 
7.82 
±1.86 
32.1 
±10.7 
7.67 
±1.79 
13.8 
±4.83 
2.96 
±1.01 
11.0 
±4.18 
79.0±24.2 
11.1 
±2.94 
12/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It  is  believed  that  the  non-linearity  is  predominantly  due  to  ‘Zero-order’  absorption  process  with 
extensive  hepatic  metabolism.  The  exact  reason  for  ‘zero-order’  absorption  such  as  a  transporter  or 
active  mechanism  has  not  been  identified.  The  zero-order  absorption  does  not  fully  account  for  the 
dose-disproportional  clearance  and  variability.  Cmax  is  linear  with  dose;  AUC  may  be  higher  at 
highest dose due to slight saturation of metabolic clearance. 
• 
Special populations 
Special population such as elderly, pregnant women, those with renal or hepatic impairment have not 
been specifically studied.  
The absence of data in the elderly might be acceptable as the indication sought is primarily in children 
and use in the elderly is not anticipated. Similarly, renal dysfunction may be unlikely to significantly 
affect kinetics of stiripentol which is extensively metabolised in the liver.  
However 70% of the administered dose is excreted as metabolites in the urine and renal impairment 
may affect this.  
The  absence  of  any  data  on  the  kinetics  of  stiripentol  in  those  with  impaired  hepatic  function  and 
secondly,  absence  of  information  on  hepatic  function  assessment  in  those  receiving  stiripentol  are  a 
concern  as  a  significant  effect  and  interaction  with  other  AEDs  metabolised  by  the  liver  (CYP450 
enzymes) could be expected in such patients. 
Due to the lack of data on the kinetics in patients with impaired hepatic and or renal function, the use 
of stiripentol in these patients is not recommended and this is reflected in the SPC. 
Children 
There  is  limited  information/data  regarding  the  distribution  kinetics  of  stiripentol  specifically  in 
children.  Considering  that  the  predominant  use  of  stiripentol  is  expected  to  be  in  children,  the 
applicant,  upon  request  of  the  CHMP,  committed  to  perform  a  specific  population  pharmacokinetic 
study in children in order to establish this as a post-authorisation follow-up measure.  
• 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Stiripentol  inhibits  several  CYP450  isoforms  (3A4,  2C19,  2C9,  2D6  and  1A2).  These  have  been 
assessed in one in vitro study and one in vivo study.  
Interactions  with  AEDs  such  as  carbamazepine,  phenytoin,  phenobarbital,  clobazam  and  valproate 
have  been  assessed  as  combinations  with  an  arbitrary  dose  reduction  of  50%  (25-75%  range) 
recommended  for  all  agents  when  combined  with  stiripentol.  As  several  of  these  agents  were 
administered  simultaneously  in  a  number  of  studies,  it  is  not  possible  to  differentiate  individual 
interactions.  
Studies  are  lacking  regarding  consequences  of  genetic  polymorphism  of  these  CYP  isoforms  on  the 
interactions. No data on consequences  of polymorphism of enzyme-pathways involved in stiripentol 
metabolism are provided either. Interactions with other drugs (non-anticonvulsant products) have not 
been studied in details although were partially explored in the initial in vitro study. 
Major interactions are with other anti-epileptic drugs (anticonvulsants). Overall, stiripentol appears to 
potentiate  other  AEDs  in  controlling  seizure  activity.  In  the  Kerr  et  al  study,  stiripentol  reduced 
carbamazepine (CBZ) dose requirements by inhibiting clearance by 50±16%.  
Tran  et  al  in  1996  confirmed  these  and  provided  a  regression  equation  describing  the  effect  of 
stiripentol on CBZ-epoxide. 
Farwell  et  al  (1993),  studied  effects  of  addition  of  stiripentol  to  a  combination  of  AEDs  over  a  
24-week period and reported a decrease of seizure activity on average by 70% (5-95%).  
Levy  et  al  (1984)  and  subsequent  studies  using  a  combination  of  Stiripentol  with  phenytoin  (steady 
dose) suggested a wide range of dose reductions (25-66%). 
Other studies or trials show that addition of stiripentol to constant dose of PB (Phenobarbital) raised 
steady  state  concentration  variably  between  8-80%  (mean  44%).  Individual  interactions  may  have 
provided a better understanding of pharmacology but poses a clinical problem in SMEI wherein the 
seizure activity is resistant to multiple drugs. 
©EMEA 2007 
13/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Mechanism of action 
The  anticonvulsant  activity  of  stiripentol  was  primarily  investigated  in  animal  models  and 
subsequently studied in man in short term and long term clinical studies.  
Putative antiepileptic mechanisms have been attributed to the following factors; 
• 
• 
• 
to  enhancing  the  central  synaptic  availability  of  GABA  by  inhibition  of  GABA  metabolism 
and possibly, inhibition of synaptic GABA reuptake.  
stiripentol’s  inhibitory  effect  on  CYP450  isozymes  (1A2,  2C19,  2C9,  2D6  and  3A4) 
contributes  to  its  antiepileptic  action  by  enhancement  of  plasma  levels  of  co-administered 
AEDs.  
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
A  true  relationship  between  plasma  concentration  and  effect  has  not  been  studied  as  there  are  no 
monotherapy studies and intravenous preparations of stiripentol are not available for human use. Three 
studies  in  adult  epileptics  (Levy  1984,  n=6;  Kerr  1991,  n=7  and  Tran  1996,  n=16),  provide  some 
information  about  different  doses  of  stiripentol  used.  However,  the  clinical  effect  of  these  doses  in 
terms  of  reduction  in  seizure  activity  has  not  been  systematically  examined  (or  published).  Whilst 
plasma  concentrations  were  determined  in  all  studies,  the  concentration  with  most  antiepileptic 
activity  remains  unclear.  Tran  et  al  in  1996  found  that  7  mg/L  of  stiripentol  (plasma  level)  was 
required for effects on carbamazepine metabolism. Whether other AEDs are affected by such a level 
or similar level is unclear. 
Secondary  pharmacology:  The  effect  of  stiripentol  on  the  cardiovascular  and  digestive  systems  is 
difficult to assess in the absence of placebo-controlled studies. In the pivotal and long-term open trials, 
there  were  no  major  cardiovascular  adverse  events.  However,  effects  on  the  digestive  system  were 
diverse and significant, although not systematically documented. For example, vomiting, weight-loss, 
and anorexia are consistently seen and in the clinical trials, significant weight loss was noted by many 
individuals. The mechanism of these effects remains unknown.  
CYP450 enzyme induction or inhibition: Stiripentol is a potent inhibitor of CYP 450 isozymes in the 
liver  and  brain.  It  is  likely  that  stiripentol  inhibits  CYP  isoforms  in  all  tissues.  There  is  thus 
potentiation  of  all  other  commonly  used  anticonvulsants.  Data  on  interactions  with  other  agents  are 
limited.  Three  studies  in  adult  epileptics  (Levy  1984,  Kerr  1991  and  Tran  1996)  provide  some 
information  about  different  doses  of  stiripentol  used.  But  these  data  are  limited.  The  applicant 
committed  to  perform  an  in  vitro  study  as  a  post-authorisation  follow-up  measure,  to  explore  the 
enzymes involved. 
Clinical efficacy  
The  development  program  included  two  pivotal  efficacy  trials  conducted  in  the  target  population, 
SMEI. Preliminary data for efficacy of stiripentol in SMEI comes from one  single study, the STEV 
where 25 of the 233 patients were diagnosed with this condition.  
Overall  there  are  two  pivotal  trials  (65  patients),  4  supporting  studies  and  3  other  open  studies  that 
assessed efficacy of stiripentol in all forms of epilepsy. Of these, data regarding the target population 
is available only from 2 pivotal, 1 supportive (STEV) and one open study (STILON). These studies 
are summarised in the table below: 
Summary table of Efficacy studies. 
Study ID 
Design 
Study 
Other 
Subjs  by  Duration 
Age 
Diagnosis  Primary 
©EMEA 2007 
14/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posology 
meds 
arm 
entred/ 
compl. 
(years) 
Incl. 
criteria 
Endpoint 
STP 50/mg/kg 
VPA  and 
Clobazam  
N=41; 
STP 50/mg/kg 
VPA  and 
Clobazam  
N=24 
23 compl 
3-18 
years 
=3  months; 
1 
mth 
baseline 
2 month DB 
50% 
Seizure 
reduction  
SMEI- 
specific 
(Dravet 
1982),  at 
least 4 fits 
/month 
Pivotal studies. 
STICLO-FR 
BC-299 
STICLO-IT 
BC-385 
DB,  Rand, 
Placebo, 
multicentre 
studies 
Supportive studies 
Martinez-
Lage  1986; 
BC-244 
Phase-II 
Open,  phased 
study 
2700-
3000mg/day 
CBZ 
(n=17), 
PHT  (=2) 
and 
PB 
(=7) 
on 
N=29; 
n=12 
STP only; 
N=27 
for 
STP+AED  
wk 
8 
baseline, 
STP 
replacement
-  over  8 
weeks 
4 wks Ph-1; 
12wk-STP 
phase 
STEV study 
BC-288 
L& G study 
BC-274 
STICAR-
BC246 
Open Studies 
STISEVR 
Phase-II, 
Prospective, 
SB, 
SB; triphasic 
60mg and (d0-
28) 
90mg/kg/day 
then on 
65-83mg/kg/d  CBZ 
233 Pts 
N=24;  10 
Females 
60 days 
DB,  Multi-
centre,  Phase 
III 
2000mg/day 
CBZ 
~130 
Phased, DB 
variable 
CBZ 
N=67 
16-57 
years 
(30.5±9.
7); 
9 
women 
Mono  or 
Bi 
therapy- 
complex 
partial 
seizures. 
Children 
2-15 
with 
years 
refractory 
(120mal
epilepsy 
es) 
1-22 yrs  Lennox-
Gastaut 
Synd 
>30kg,  
<20 
years 
Partial 
seizures 
failed 
AED 
STP 
in 
resistant 
epilepsy 
Change 
in 
Seizure freq 
fits 
⇓ 
72%;  
in 
32 
responders, 
17 to STP 
⇓ 
fits 
12.9±4.2  to 
2.7±1 
at 
4mth 
Rascol, 1989 
Open, Pilot,  
1500mg/day 
STILON 
BC-387 
4000mg/day 
label, 
in 
Open 
study 
France; 
Observational,  
• 
Dose response studies 
CBZ 
700±49m
g, 
PB=5, 
VPA=3,  
As 
required 
N=7, 
men) 
(5 
4  months 
FU 
Adults; 
21-57 
yrs 
Complex 
partial 
seizures 
N=155 
3-5 years 
Compassionate  use,  all  responders 
from  STICAR,  WOW,  Lennox, 
STEV, STIVER and STICLO 
Controlled  monotherapy  dose  response  studies  with  Stiripentol  are  not  available.  Very  few  studies 
indeed  examined  this  aspect  although  different  doses  were  used  in  different  studies.  Dose  response 
studies  in  the  target  population  (SMEI)  have  not  been  conducted.  Many  of  the  earlier  reports  and 
studies  used  fixed  doses  of  stiripentol.  The  1990  STICAR  study,  (adults  or  adolescents  of  at  least 
30Kg) used a fixed dose of 2000mg/day. In the WOW study, (patients aged 15-65 years) a fixed dose 
of  3000mg/day  was  used.  The  first  attempt  at  using  incremental  doses  came  from  Lennox-Gastaut 
study  (1993,  BC-274,  patients  aged  1-22  years)  where  doses  higher  than  50mg/kg  with  the  highest 
ranging from 75-83mg/kg were used.  
Studies where some dose response data may be extracted;  
(stiripentol) 
Study 
Comedication 
STP 
dose (/day) 
2400-3000mg- 10 wks  Mean  CBZ  Cl  fell  fr  6.1±1.1  to  2.0 
Comment. 
Levy et al, 1985; 
CBZ 
Levy et al 1987 
Levy 1984, 
Kerr 1991 
Carbamazepine  
5  PHT,  3  PB,  2  CBZ, 
and 1 Clobazam 
Carbamazepine 
Tran 1996 
CBZ ± other AED 
1000-3000mg- 2 wks 
600, 1200 & 2400mg 
1500-3000mg 
60mg/kg- 4weeks 
90mg/kg- 8 weeks 
reduced 
±0.7L/h 
Fall in Cl; CBZE/CBZ ratio ⇓ 
Mean  phenytoin  Cl 
29.5±13.4 to 6.48±2.6 
CBZ Cl reduced;   
Adults 1.25±0.25 to 0.61 ±0.14 
CBZ  metab  maximally  affected  at  STP 
7mg/L plasma level (CBZE/CBZ ratio) 
from 
©EMEA 2007 
15/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STEV study 
Other AEDS 
60mg/kg 
90mg/kg/day 
and 
Seizure reduction-modest.  
The  above  studies  however  provide  insufficient  information  regarding  variations  in  dosage  and  the 
hence definite conclusions may not be drawn based on these. As there are no intravenous studies, and 
oral administration is believed to exhibit ‘Zero order absorption’ at high doses, true dose response is 
difficult  to  assess  and  remains  unknown.  In  the  STICLO  studies  (Pivotal),  a  fixed  dose  of  
50 mg/kg/day was adopted. The basis for selection of this dose is unclear from the above studies. It is 
only in the STICLO studies (as discussed below) that the best evidence of efficacy of any dose is seen.  
Consequently, 50 mg/kg/day is the only recommended dose proposed in the SPC. 
• 
Main studies  
There  are  two  main  pivotal  studies  (STICLO-France  and  STICLO-Italy)  that  included  the  target 
population of SMEI and had identical protocol designs enabling some comparison and pooling of data. 
Due to the rarity of the target  condition, the numbers included in each study were small (42 and 24 
respectively). In the first STICLO-France study, these were only the preliminary or pilot numbers and 
in  view  of  the  significant  difference  between  treatments,  the  data  monitoring  board  decided  to 
terminate the study without additional recruitment.  
METHODS 
Both studies, STICLO-France and STICLO-Italy, were double blind, multicentre, placebo-controlled 
and randomised, lasting about 3 months.  
Study  participants:  The  participants  who  were  3-18  years  old,  with  diagnosed  SMEI,  and  at  least  
4 tonic-clonic seizures per month were included. Additionally they had to be receiving clobazam (max 
20mg/day)  and  valproic  acid  (≤30mg/kg/day),  possibly  receiving  progabide  or  per-rectal  diazepam. 
Doses other than these were altered to bring them in line with this protocol.  
Design of the studies 
The  attached  scheme  displays  the  trial  sequence  used  (Fig-4).  The  VPA  (valproic  acid)  dose  of 
15 mg/kg/day during baseline was subsequently amended to ≤ 30mg/kg/day (by protocol amendment). 
This was done to counteract the poor control of seizures and therefore raises the possibility of baseline 
imbalance – influencing the results. In both trials, the comparison period was only two months. 
The follow up period of open label stiripentol then continued on to the STILON study, assessing long 
term use of stiripentol in these children. 
The  participant  selection  and  design  of  the  study  (baseline  and  treatment  period  of  4  and  8  weeks) 
appear acceptable and in accordance with standard trials for anti-epileptic drugs. A longer period of 
treatment  would  have  provided  better  clues  towards  the  long-term  efficacy  of  stiripentol.  (at  least  
12 weeks as per CHMP guidelines). 
Treatments:  Stiripentol  dose  was  fixed  at  50  mg/kg/day.  The  rationale  for  this  dose  is  however  not 
specifically supported by the STEV study findings that used 60 and 90 mg/kg/day in children.  
Moreover, the choice of the concomitant medications appears a little arbitrary as it is unclear from the 
STEV study results or protocol if there was a significantly better response in the valproate & clobazam 
groups.  The  choice  of  the  anti-epileptics  permitted  is  in  line  with  the  clinical  management  of  this 
condition. 
Objectives:  
©EMEA 2007 
16/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The objectives (of both studies, STICLO-FR and STICLO-IT) were to demonstrate, 
• 
• 
• 
efficacy of stiripentol as add-on therapy to clobazam and valproate in children with SMEI and 
refractory seizures, 
to study the safety profile of the combinations (or acceptability of STP) 
to document steady state concentrations of stiripentol & concomitant medications.  
The  studies  had  identical  designs  although  STICLO-IT  followed  the  French  study  in  temporal 
sequence and could be considered a confirmatory study.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary outcome in both studies was: 
•  The  number  of  responders  in  each  group  -  defined  as  those  with  >50%  reduction  in  the 
number of seizures during the treatment period (2nd month). 
The following were defined as secondary efficacy criteria: 
o  The  percentage  of  children  whose  number  of  seizures  (generalised)  decreased  by  at  least  
50% in the 2nd month compared to baseline on a 30-day basis 
o  Percentage of children withdrawn from the trial 
o  Number  of  seizures  during  the  comparison  phase  (each  month  separately)  compared  with 
number of seizures during baseline 
o  Time elapsed until the same number of seizures as in the baseline period was experienced. 
Sample  size:  was  low,  limited  to  100  patients  or  an  inclusion  period  of  18  months.  However,  this 
choice was arbitrary. 
Randomisation 
The primary population for the STICLO-ITALY study was the ITT (intended to treat) population and 
included  all  patients  who  were  randomised  into  the  study.  The  primary  population  for  the  
STICLO-FRANCE study was all patients randomised, apart from one patient who was considered not 
evaluable. 
Blinding (masking) 
Adverse  effects  related  to  drug  interactions  required,  as  per  protocol,  a  reduction  in  dosage  of 
comedication  in  many  stiripentol-treated  patients.  This  may  have  resulted  to  some  degree  in  loss  of 
blinding. 
Statistical methods 
The  primary  endpoint  and  the  percentage  of  patients  who  had  at  least  a  50%  reduction  in  seizure 
frequency were analysed using the chi-squared test.  
The number of seizures and percentage change from baseline in the number of seizures were analysed 
non-parametrically using the Mann-Whitney test.  
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
The participant flow was the following: 
©EMEA 2007 
17/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STICLO  France  study  was  interrupted  prematurely  after  inclusion  of  42  patients,  when  preliminary 
results showed benefit. It was followed by the STICLO Italy study, which included 23 patients. 
Recruitment 
As  is  evidenced  from  the  attached  graph,  the  recruitment  in  the  STICLO-Fr  study  was  gradual  and 
apparently smooth. Data from the Italian study are not available. 
©EMEA 2007 
18/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conduct of the study 
STICLO-Fr study; as expected, there were several protocol amendments during the trial. The first was 
in  May  1997,  7  months  after  start  and  after  20  patients  had  been  enrolled.  There  were  two  main 
changes.  
(cid:131)  First was in the inclusion criterion- upper dosage limits for valproate (20mg/kg/day before and 
15mg/kg/day on entry) were removed. This was aimed to better protect the enrolled children 
from risk of increased seizures.  
(cid:131)  Change  in  the  primary  end  point  and  criteria  for  withdrawal;  the  primary  end  point  was 
changed  from  a  quantitative  to  a  qualitative  measure  (success  or  failure).  This  apparently 
permitted  the  possibility  to  retain  patients  in  the  analysis  who  would  have  been  withdrawn 
from the study before the comparison period.  
STICLO-IT study; there were no amendments to the protocol in this supplementary study. 
There were no major protocol violations. 
Baseline data 
Table- 18: Patient characteristics; 
Gender (M/F) 
Age (mean±SD) 
Weight 
Seizures (N=patients) 
(cid:131) Tonic-Clonic (uni or bilateral) 
(cid:131) Atypical Absence 
(cid:131) Myoclonus 
(cid:131) Other 
Number of seizures /month  
Clinical findings 
(cid:131)  Normal 
(cid:131)  Neurological abnormality 
(cid:131)  Pyramidal syndrome 
(cid:131)  Mental retardation 
(cid:131)  Behavioural disorders 
No of Previous Treatments  
AED doses (pre-inclusion) (mg/kg/day) 
(cid:131)  Sodium Valproate 
(cid:131)  Clobazam 
(cid:131)  Pts on Progabide 
(cid:131)  Occasional Diazepam 
STICLO-Fr 
STP (n=21) 
6/15 
9.4 ±4 
31.8±12.7 
22 (4 + 18) 
11 
10 
2 
17.9±17.3 
(3.9 to 72.9) 
20 
12 
(4) 
21 
15 (2 severe) 
6.6±2.5 
3-11 
Placebo 
(n=20) 
11/9 
9.29 ±4.86 
30.5±14.4 
20 (1 +19) 
9 
11 
4 
18.5±17.0 
(4.1 to 76.2) 
19 
10 
(1) 
20 
15 (6 severe) 
7.5±2.9 
3-13 
STICLO -IT 
STP 
8/4 
9.17±3.63 
31.9 ±11.7 
14 (4+10) 
3 
13 
1 
33.6 ±28.2 
2.14 to 86.1 
NA 
Placebo 
5/6 
8.72 ±4.43 
29.2 ±9.04 
14(5+9) 
5 
11 
1 
27.4 ±28.6 
3.75 to 101 
NA 
NA 
NA 
23.6±9.47 
0.532 ±0.247 
5 (23.8%) 
3 (14.3%) 
24.04±8.53 
0.55 ±0.27 
2 (10%) 
2 (10%) 
28.2 ±7.98 
0.575± 0.21 
NA 
NA 
25.3 ±7.0 
0.538±0.18 
NA 
NA 
The  distributions  of  most  characteristics  at  baseline  were  similar  between  stiripentol  and  Placebo 
groups in both studies. Some data such as clinical examination findings and previous treatments are 
only  available  in  the  first,  STICLO-Fr  study.  The  table  represents  selected  important  baseline 
characteristics. Other features such as AEDs at baseline (visit-2), laboratory parameters at baseline and 
the  minimum  plasma  concentration  of  AEDS  were  comparable  in  the  stiripentol  and  the  placebo 
groups.  The  number  of  subjects  with  different  types  of  seizure  activity  showed  minor  differences. 
These seizure activity types were not mutually exclusive and could co-exist in the same individual and 
hence  there  is  overlap  of  numbers/frequencies.  There  were  more  children  with  severe  mental 
retardation in the placebo group in STICLO-France study, while the overall numbers were equal.  
Numbers analysed 
In the STICLO-France study, 41 subjects (of 47 screened were analysed); 21 in stiripentol group and 
20  in  placebo  group.  There  were  5  discontinuations  (see  participant  flow  above  for  the  reasons  for 
discontinuation). The ITT population comprised therefore of 41 subjects.  
In the STICLO-Italy study, of the 23 evaluable patients, there were 3 dropouts; 2 in placebo group and 
I in stiripentol group. The ITT population of 23 subjects were analysed.  
©EMEA 2007 
19/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary end point: 
The table shows the number of responders in each of the pivotal trials; 
Number of responders 
Responders 
Numbers 
Frequency 
95% confidence interval 
STICLO-Fr 
STICLO-IT (ITT) 
Stiripentol 
Placebo 
15/21 
1/20 
71.4% 
5% 
52.1- 90.7% 
0.0-14.6% 
Stiripentol 
Placebo 
8/12 
1/11 
66.7% 
9.1% 
34.9 -90.2 % 
0.0-41.3% 
Secondary Endpoints 
Variation in Seizures with treatment in STICLO studies 
STICLO-Fr (all randomised) 
STP (n=21) 
PLA (n=20) 
Chi Sq  
STICLO-IT (PP population) 
STP (n=11) 
PLA (n=9) 
Chi Sq  
No seizures (100%) 
Decrease >50 <100% 
Decrease <50% 
Increase <50% 
Increase >50% 
9 (45%) 
6 (30%) 
3 (15%) 
2 (10%) 
0 
0 
1 (6%) 
5 (31%) 
8 (50%) 
2 (13%) 
P<0.01 
3 (27%) 
0 
P~0.05 
5 (45%) 
3 (27%) 
0 
0 
1 (11%) 
7 (78%) 
0 
1(11%0 
The  results  for  the  percentage  change  of  seizure  frequency  from  baseline  are  shown  in  the  tables 
below. 
Mean (SD) seizure frequency – STICLO FRANCE 
Stiripentol 
Placebo 
p-value 
1.4.1  Baseline 
Number of seizures 
1.4.2  Month 1 
Number of seizures 
% change from baseline 
1.4.3  Month 2 
Number of seizures 
% change from baseline 
Seizure-free patients 
17.9 (17.3) 
18.5 (17.0) 
2.72 (4.06) 
-83.2 (28.0) 
23.82 (36.55) p<0.001 
p<0.001 
+11.3 (54.7) 
5.15 (7.73) 
-68.6 (41.9) 
9/20 (45%) 
p<0.002 
13.80 (7.33) 
+7.4% (37.6)  p<0.002 
0/16 
p=0.0013 
Mean (SD) seizure frequency – STICLO ITALY 
Stiripentol 
Placebo 
p-value 
1.4.4  Baseline 
Number of seizures 
1.4.5  Month 1 
Number of seizures 
% change from baseline 
1.4.6  Month 2 
Number of seizures 
% change from baseline 
33.6 (28.2) 
27.4 (28.6) 
4.7 (7.3) 
-89.5 (15.7) 
29.0 (35.6) 
+5.5 (55.4) 
p=0.0003 
p<0.05 
9.8 (10.0) 
-74.3 (26.3) 
16.7 (11.3) 
-12.7 (61.9) 
p=NS 
p=NS 
©EMEA 2007 
20/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seizure-free patients 
3/11 (27%) 
0/9 
p=0.05 
Primarily, tonic-clonic seizures were assessed. The applicant has provided evidence that other types of 
seizures  did  not  worsen  albeit  data  are  very  limited.  The  applicant  and  the  experts  provided 
justification  that  status  epilepticus  would  not  be  a  good  end  point  and  this  is  acceptable.  In  the 
STICLO-FR study, there was a decrease of seizures by (-) 83±28% for stiripentol group, while there 
was  an  increase  in  placebo  group  (+11.3±54.7%)  during  the  first  month.  For  month-2  these  were,  -
68.6±41.9%  (baseline  to  M-2,  STP)  and  an  increase  of  +7.37±37.6%  (Placebo).    In  the  STICLO-IT 
study, there was a decrease of 89±15% for stiripentol while the placebo group showed an increase of 
5.5±55%  in  M-1.  For  month-2  (M2),  the  corresponding  figures  were  74±26%  and  12.7±61.9%, 
respectively, both stiripentol and placebo showing a decrease in frequency.  
• 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
In  neither  of  the  studies,  an  analysis  by  centre  was  feasible  (2.9  subjects  per  centre  on  average) 
because of the small numbers. No sub-group analyses or multiple comparisons were made.  
• 
Clinical studies in special populations 
SMEI is the target population where indication is sought and the two pivotal studies included patients 
with  SMEI.  There  were  no  studies  in  special  populations  such  as  those  with  renal  or  hepatic 
insufficiency. 
• 
Supportive study(ies) 
There are 4 controlled and 3 open studies and approximately 280 patients who received at least one 
dose of stiripentol in the controlled studies. The main theme through out the development programme 
has been the use of stiripentol in combination with other anticonvulsants and not as monotherapy.  The 
primary  efficacy  criterion  has  also  been  either  a  qualitative  reduction  in  severity  of  seizures  or  an 
overall reduction in number of seizures. 
The STEV study provided the basis for the hypothesis that stiripentol might be effective in SMEI. This 
2-centre,  2-phase  study  included  43  (of  233,  18.9%)  myoclonic  epilepsy  patients  and  25  (11%) 
specifically SMEI. In total 157 completed the study and there were 76 withdrawals. The response rates 
in SMEI differed in the two phases; 27.9% in first 28 days (phase-1) and 18.6% in the next 28 days 
(phase II). Other interesting observations included that stiripentol seemed more effective in those older 
than  9  years  in  the  ITT  groups  but  those  older  than  3  years  for  the  PP  population.  The  lack  of 
continued efficacy over a period (from phase I to phase II) does appear to be an issue in the pivotal 
trials (STICLO studies, month-1 to 2 comparisons) and persists in the STILON study. 
The  open  STILON  study  included  those  with  good  response  to  stiripentol  in  the  previous  studies 
(STICLO, WOW, STICAR etc) and those who were willing to pursue stiripentol, thereby providing a 
rather  select  population.  All  types  of  epilepsy  were  included  and  a  maximum  dose  of  stiripentol  of 
4000 mg/day was permitted. There were no restrictions on the anticonvulsant co-medications. There 
were 45 patients with SMEI. The dose of stiripentol varied as the investigators were permitted to alter 
these based on clinical effect. Nearly a third of all patients (51 of 155) withdrew and 17 were due to 
lack of efficacy. The response calculated as RR index varied between different forms of epilepsy and 
in SMEI the index was 0.03±0.61. In this study the doses of stiripentol varied and there were very few 
patients  who  received  doses  >60mg/kg/day  in  the  SMEI  group.  A  third  (31.6%)  were  administered 
doses  lower  than  the  pivotal  studies  (40mg/kg/day).  Hence  these  data  do  not  support  incremental 
doses. 
• 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Although efficacy in animal models has been claimed, the anti-epileptic activity of stiripentol has not 
been  demonstrated  clinically  since  stiripentol  monotherapy  has  not  been  studied  in  the  target 
indication  of  Dravet’s  syndrome  or  severe  myoclonic  epilepsy  of  infancy  (SMEI).  The  major 
mechanism  of  benefit  of  stiripentol  in  man  appears  to  arise  from  its  interactions  with  other,  co-
administered anti-epileptic agents. 
©EMEA 2007 
21/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The two placebo-controlled pivotal studies in the indication of interest (STICLO France and STICLO 
Italy), included a small number of patients (65 only in total, including patients randomised to placebo). 
All patients received a combination of clobazam and valproic acid with a fixed dose of 50 mg/kg/day 
of stiripentol. The duration of double-blind treatment and assessment was limited to two months only. 
The efficacy was evaluated only on clonic and tonic-clonic types of seizures. The impact of treatment 
on psychomotor development (a major concern in this population) was not determined and would have 
required a longer duration of assessment. 
There are no dose response data (fixed dose only studied) and the evidence of maintained efficacy on 
continued use is not forthcoming from these trials. 
There were significant differences in seizure frequencies between stiripentol-treated patients and the 
placebo group in the short-term, with a highly significant difference in primary efficacy endpoint in 
favour  of  stiripentol.  However,  despite  a  mean  38%  reduction  in  clobazam  dosage,  the  serum 
concentrations  of  clobazam  and  its  active  metabolite  norclobazam  increased  markedly  in  the 
stiripentol group.  
While in STICLO France clobazam and norclobazam levels at baseline were similar in the two groups, 
during  double-blind  treatment  clobazam  and  norclobazam  levels  were  on  average  50%  and  450% 
higher  in  the  stiripentol  group  than  in  the  placebo.  Similar  changes,  though  of  a  slightly  different 
magnitude, were observed in STICLO Italy. 
It is therefore plausible that the reduction in seizure frequency observed during stiripentol treatment 
could be ascribed entirely to the increase in the concentration of clobazam and its active metabolite. 
Such  an  increase  in  clobazam  dose  might  have  achieved  the  same  effect  without  exposure  of  the 
subjects to the added intrinsic toxicity of stiripentol. 
Additionally,  a  pharmacokinetic  interaction  with  valproate  may  contribute  to  the  effects  seen  after 
stiripentol administration. Changes of valproic acid levels in the two groups were less prominent, but 
serum  unbound  valproic  acid  concentrations  were  not  determined,  which  limits  ability  to  draw 
conclusions about the possibility of a pharmacokinetic interaction also occurring with valproic acid. 
Therefore, comparison of addition of effects of stiripentol to maximum safe doses of co-medications 
(clobazam+valproate) is needed. Consequently at the request of the CHMP, the applicant committed to 
provide  as  a  specific  obligation  (see  below),  a  clinical  study  where,  the  doses  of  clobazam  and 
valproate  are  increased  to  the  maximal  tolerated  level  in  the  control  group,  in line  with  the changes 
that  occur  in  the  active  group.  Dose  alterations  will  be  achieved  in  stringently  blinded  fashion 
preferably.  The  study  is  expected  to  assess  the  comparative  effect  of  stiripentol  vs.  placebo  over  12 
weeks.  An outline of the protocol is given below: 
Randomised placebo-controlled trial using stiripentol (STP) as an add-on therapy in paediatric patients 
with Dravet’s syndrome (SMEI) not adequately controlled with clobazam and valproate. 
Double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in adjunctive therapy 
Multicenter European study, including approximately 40 patients. 
Primary objective: 
To evaluate the efficacy of STP in the control of seizures when used as an add-on therapy in paediatric 
patients with Dravet’s syndrome not adequately controlled with clobazam and valproate. 
Secondary objectives: 
- To evaluate the stiripentol efficacy on generalized (tonic)-clonic seizures (percentage of  change in 
seizure frequency) during the four months of the treatment period (including one month of adaptation 
of the comedications and three months of comparison period), compared to baseline. 
-  To  evaluate  the  percentage  of  responders  (defined  as  having  more  than  50%  decrease  in  seizure 
frequency) during the four months of the treatment period (including one month of adaptation of the 
comedications and three months of comparison period), compared to baseline. 
-  To  evaluate  the  percentage  of  responders  (defined  as  having  more  than  50%  decrease  in  seizure 
frequency) during the three months of the treatment period compared to baseline. 
- To evaluate the safety of stiripentol as adjunctive therapy to clobazam + valproate when compared 
with maximum safe dose of clobazam + valproate. 
©EMEA 2007 
22/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  To  evaluate  the  number  of  patients  who  drop  out  due  to  status  epilepticus  and/or  severe  adverse 
events during the double-blind period. 
- To describe the effect of stiripentol on myoclonia and absences (scores during the three months of 
the comparison period compared to scores during baseline) 
Diagnosis and main criteria 
-  Children aged 6 months to 15 years  
-  Diagnosis of  SMEI (Dravet's syndrome)  
-  Treatment with valproate and clobazam at the maximum safe dose 
Supportive studies 
The supportive studies were done in a non-homogeneous population of patients, with disparate designs 
in terms of follow-up, the co-medications, and primary end point definitions.  
In STEV and STILON studies, a small number of SMEI patients were included, but the combinations 
differed, as did the response rate: ~20% in STEV (27 and 18.9% for periods 1 and 2) and about 15% in 
STILON. In STILON study, there was some reduction in the number of subjects experiencing up to  
10 seizures a month (11% reduction).  
These  studies  do  not  provide  sufficient  evidence  of  efficacy  and  are  not  pertinent  to  the  claimed 
indication. 
The STILON study, that used stiripentol on compassionate grounds, and allowed extended open-label 
stiripentol  treatment  in  patients  completing  the  STICLO  studies  (as  well  as  patients  receiving 
stiripentol  in  other  protocols)  is  the  only  study  providing  data  on  long-term  follow-up  in  the  target 
indication.  Unfortunately,  the  information  that  can  be  obtained  from  this  study  is  limited  due  to  its 
uncontrolled design and the loss of about one third of patients to follow-up for efficacy evaluation. 
Clinical safety 
The clinical safety analyses have included all studies involved in the clinical development (mainly in 
France). The initial studies were open trials in patients with “refractory epilepsies” and the controlled 
studies were performed later.  
There  is  a  significant  diversity  in  the  study  designs  dating  back  to  1976;  this  diversity  includes 
indications,  the  patient  population  and  doses  of  stiripentol,  thereby  limiting  the  ability  to  pool  data 
across studies.  
• 
Patient exposure 
Due  to  the  diversity  among  studies  and  doses  used,  it  is  not  feasible  to  summarise  or  compute 
exposure according to dose or exact duration of exposure. Stiripentol was always administered orally 
but  two  different  formulations  (capsules  or  sachets)  with  (possibly  or  presumably)  different 
bioavailabilities were employed. At the request of the CHMP, the applicant committed to perform a 
new bioequivalence study between capsules and sachets, in post-authorisation as a specific obligation 
(see clinical PK section) 
The exposure is therefore assessed in 3 formats; pivotal studies (fixed dose), other studies (open and 
preliminary) and lastly post marketing experience.  
In the pivotal, controlled studies, ~60 patients were exposed a dose of 50 mg/kg/day; in preliminary 
studies, a total of ~430 patients were included with about 80 receiving stiripentol for about 2 years. In 
the  post  marketing  use,  ~250  patients  have  been  exposed  to  stiripentol  but  doses  are  difficult  to 
calculate.  
The  proportion  of  patients  receiving  doses  higher  than  50 mg/kg/day  can  not  be  computed  with  any 
certainty from the dossier.  More than 50% had approximate stiripentol exposure of 2 years and nearly 
80% of SMEI group had 2 years or more exposure. Calculation of total exposure (original study period 
+ STILON) increased the duration considerably; max duration of 18.4 years, with a mean of 6.21±1.44 
years in SMEI; 8.59±3.84 for partial epilepsy.  
• 
Adverse events  
©EMEA 2007 
23/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety summary analyses a total of 447 patients included in the pivotal studies and 475 patients 
from  preliminary  and  /or  non-pivotal  studies  (364  from  studies  including  children).  This  analysis  is 
clearly limited as adverse events were not reported by body system in all clinical studies. The coding 
system used diverse classifications. A number of studies reported only side effects (possibly related to 
study drug). These were also not separated by seriousness of the event.  
The  overall  number  of  adverse  events  reported  for  all  systems  was  higher  in  the  STILON  study 
(n=309  for  155  patients)  over  a  period  of  3  years  (mean  duration  of  follow-up)  than  the  short-term 
STICLO  studies  (n=  72  and  33  events  for  stiripentol;  30  patients-STICLO-France,  16  and  9  for 
placebo grp; 29 patients, STICLO-Italy). These data are summarised in the table below: 
Neurological  adverse  events  dominate  the  overview  in  both  the  placebo  controlled  STICLO  studies 
(n=37 and 7) and in the open STILON study (n=119). Importantly, in the STILON study there were  
70  reports  of  convulsions  or  aggravated  convulsions  (n=62)  which  were  not  found  in  the  controlled 
STICLO studies, emphasizing possibly the differences in doses used.  
Gastrointestinal adverse events were the next  most frequent after CNS effects  and the primary were 
loss of appetite, weight loss in STICLO studies and anorexia in the STILON study. Weight gain was 
noted in the STICLO studies (5 and 4 respectively) and this was conspicuously absent in the STILON 
study.  
Unfortunately, the adverse events could not be consistently related to plasma levels of stiripentol. 
In STICLO-France study, the relationship between AEs and Cmin (trough concentration) is reported 
for both stiripentol and placebo groups in the next 2 Tables. 
©EMEA 2007 
24/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Cmin and AE in the stiripentol group 
Table: Cmin and AE in the placebo group 
A large number of aggravated convulsions (in the STILON study) occurred early and it is possible that 
these were not related to reduction in stiripentol dose or its toxic effect but likely related to reductions 
in  doses  of  co-medications  that  were  needed  at  commencement  of  STP.  The  applicant  has  now 
provided  the  time  course  of  withdrawals  in  the  STILON  study.  Of  the  17  withdrawals  for  lack  of 
efficacy,  majority  occurred  after  one  year  of  therapy  (between  1  -3  years).  Notably,  the  number  of 
withdrawals due to ADRs were only few and this provides some reassurance (albeit limited).  These 
lacunae  in  addition  to  the  absence  of  monotherapy  dose  response  studies  have  implications  to  the 
SmPC and posology proposed.  
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In the controlled STICLO studies, there were 9 serious adverse events in the French component but 
none in the Italian study (STICLO-italy).  Six of these 9 were in the stiripentol group and 3 were in the 
placebo  group.  In  the  stiripentol  group,  4  were  extreme  drowsiness  causally  related  to  treatment, 
considered severe but not serious. The other events were status epilepticus (requiring withdrawal) and 
giant urticaria. The placebo group had similar events; drowsiness and motor deficiency (withdrawn), 
©EMEA 2007 
25/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
status  epilepticus  (withdrawn)  and  repeated  seizures.  Five  of  the  9,  the  events  improved  following 
decrease of concomitant medication.  
In STILON study, there were 98 serious adverse events (SAEs) reported by 48 patients; 45% of these 
were convulsion or aggravated convulsions. One 18 year old experienced severe weight loss of 17 kg 
(probably stiripentol related) and there were 3 deaths (as discussed below).  
In  all  studies,  a  cursory  assessment  of  SAEs  appears  to  have  been  used  with  diverse  definitions  of 
SAEs. The preliminary studies had very poor definitions and hence firm conclusions can not be drawn.  
A definite pattern to the SAEs is difficult to establish based on the data available. Majority of SAEs 
appear to be related to convulsions (occurrence or aggravation. There do not appear to be any undue 
risk  of  death  or  serious  SAE  associated  with  the  use  of  stiripentol  in  the  doses  deployed  in  the 
controlled  STICLO  studies.  The  same  cannot  be  concluded  for  a  lower  (40 mg/kg)  or  higher  dose 
>60mg/kg 
Deaths 
A total of 9 deaths were reported in all studies. All deaths occurred in children under 16 years of age 
with serious co-morbid conditions but no deaths were noted in the SMEI groups in any study. In 4 of 
these  cases  a  causal  relation  to  study  drug  was  adjudged  improbable.    One  was  an  accidental  head 
injury. The most common diagnosis in those who died was cryptogenic partial or generalised epilepsy. 
Six subjects (of the nine) received carbamazepine as the other AED, while 3 had VPA, and there were 
2 each of clobazam and vigabatrin. 
• 
Laboratory findings 
Haematological  events  were  reported  in  the  STICLO  France  study:  6  patients  in  the  STP  group 
presented with abnormalities of white blood cells or platelets at the end of the comparison period that 
were  not  present  at  baseline.    Three  patients  presented  with  neutropenia  between  1000  and  1500x 
109/L,  2  patients  presented  with  thrombocytopenia<150x109/L  and  1  patient  presented  with 
eosinophilia.  
In the STILON study, 6 patients experienced neutropenia and 1 patient experienced thrombopenia. 
In the STEV study, 1 patient experienced an SAE of neutropenia. 
Except  for  haematological  events  described  above,  no  major  abnormalities  in  laboratory  functions 
were  noted  consistently.  The  absence  of  any  clinical  data  in  those  with  impaired  liver  function  is 
another drawback of the program.  
In  the  French  TUA  programme  there  were  only  minor  elevations  of  gamma-GT  and  these  were  not 
consistent  with  alterations  in  the  other  enzymes  (AST  or  AST).  Furthermore,  the  issue  of  hepatic 
adenomas  in  mice  has  also  been  clarified  and  there  are  no  hepatic  tumours  noted  in  the  TUA 
programme. Whilst data are limited, these new analyses are somewhat reassuring regarding the safety 
issues. 
• 
Safety in special populations 
Children: 
A  number  of  preliminary  and  open  studies  included  both  adults  and  children  but  have  not  reported 
systematically  the  distinction  or  provided  the  exact  number  of  children  (≤  16  yrs).  The  table  below 
shows the distribution of children in those studies where this distinction has been reported. 
©EMEA 2007 
26/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NR = not reported 
Only 3 main studies included children with a diagnosis of SMEI (STICLO studies and STILON). Thus 
the overall exposure in children with SMEI is in about ~80 patients for <16 years (excluding STEV).  
The number of children exposed to stiripentol appears reasonable considering the orphan indication, 
especially those with SMEI.  
Considering the heterogeneity of the patient populations in pivotal studies - represented by 79 patients 
(children/adolescent) with SMEI - and in non-pivotal studies- 475 patients children and adults) with 
different  types  of  epilepsy  -,  is  not  possible  to  perform  a  formal  analysis  of  safety  according  to 
demographic factors. 
However, there were no major obvious differences in tolerability profile between children and adults. 
The  relatively  low  number  of  patients  treated,  and  the  inability  to  obtain  a  pooled  analysis  of  data, 
does  not  allow  to  make  any  qualified  statement  about  association  of  specific  adverse  effects  with 
specific  variables  such  as  age,  gender,  genetic  background,  type  of  epilepsy  disorder,  comorbidities 
and comedications. 
• 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Stiripentol interacts with carbamazepine, phenytoin, clobazam, clonazepam, phenobarbital and several 
other agents by inhibiting the CYP450 enzyme system. The adverse events related to these agents are 
enhanced  by  stiripentol  because  of  the  elevation  of  plasma  levels  of  these  agents.  Specific  adverse 
events have not been examined in detail. As stiripentol affects VPA metabolism minimally but limits 
formation of the hepatotoxic metabolite of VPA, this may be an advantage for this combination.  
• 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
There were significant number withdrawals from the open STILON study (32.9%) for various reasons 
and 17 were due to lack of efficacy. This may have been due to alterations in dose (40 mg/kg/day) or 
to the highest dose used (100 mg/kg/day). It should be considered that these withdrawals came in the 
face  of  patients  being  recruited  into  STILON  based  on  benefit  derived  during  the  original  study 
(STICLO,  Wow,  STEV  or  STICAR  studies).  Reassuringly,  deaths  and  adverse  events  did  not 
dominate the number of withdrawals.  
• 
Post marketing experience (compassionate use) 
Stiripentol has been given authorisation for temporary use in France since January 2003 specifically in 
patients with SMEI.  The post marketing exposure under this cohort is estimated based on an average 
©EMEA 2007 
27/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dose of 1500 mg STP/day. For Temporary use Authorisation (TUA, primarily patients with SMEI) the 
cumulative  estimated  treatment  days  were  70,733  in  over  200  patients.  The  calculated  approximate 
exposure  was  1  year  per  patient.  For  nominative  TUA  (that  includes  other  types  of  epilepsy)  the 
figures were 107, 801 days in about 250 patients; approximate exposure of 14 months per patient.  
Between Jan 2003 to Jun 2004 (~18 month period), there were 30 adverse events in 19 patients aged 
6months to 19 years. The commonest ADRs were drowsiness, loss of appetite and weight loss. Six of 
these  were  reported  as  serious  and  13  non  serious.  There  have  been  2  deaths  (unexpected);  one 
possibly during an epileptic seizure and second following a generalised seizure. Both were considered 
by investigators to be causally unlikely and improbable to be related to the study drug. The subsequent 
narrative becomes confusing regarding serious cases although potential for thrombocytopenia exists.  
Overall, the number of adverse events reported appears to be quite low in proportion to the exposure. 
The  exact  influences  determining  the  reporting  rates  are  often  undeterminable  and  spontaneous 
reporting rates have always been low. Hence these data for post marketing experience do not provide 
any greater reassurance that stiripentol risk: benefit is better than that noted in the rest of the dossier.  
• 
Discussion on clinical safety 
SMEI is a severe disease resistant to all forms of treatment, therefore there is a real medical need to 
find  new  AEDs  able  to  minimize  the  number  of  seizures  and  consequently  to  optimize  the  patient 
cognitive development. 
In spite of the relatively small exposure and the suboptimal quality of adverse events collection and 
reporting  methods,  overall,  the  adverse  event  profile  of  stiripentol  does  not,  by  itself,  give  rise  to 
major  concerns.  Adverse  events  related  to  the  compound  appear  to  be  common,  affect  mostly  the 
central nervous system and the gastrointestinal tract, and they are often severe in intensity. However, 
they appear to be reversible, particularly with adjustments in dosage of comedication. In fact, many of 
the  observed  adverse  effects  are  probably  related  to  elevation  in  serum  concentrations  of  associated 
drugs.  
For  the  safety  evaluation  of  stiripentol,  it  is  important  to  keep  in  mind  that  the  drug  inhibits  the 
cytochrome P450 isoenzyme 2C9; previous studies demonstrated that the drug markedly reduces the 
elimination cleararance of several AEDs which include phenobarbital, phenytoin, carbamazepine; for 
valproate  stiripentol  reduces  the  clearance  of  valproate  metabolites  (4-OH  VPA,  5-OH  VPA  and  
4-ene-VPA,) whilst having no effect on average valproate concentrations 
Data are limited or sometimes unclear regarding the relationship of adverse events with dosage, dosing 
frequency, dose titration rates, serum stiripentol concentrations and potential risk factors (age, type of 
comedication, comorbidities). No adequate studies were performed to address concerns about potential 
adverse effects on cognitive function, behaviour and psychomotor development. 
The  applicant  committed  to  address  these  deficiencies  in  post-authorisation  as  FUM  and  Specific 
obligations as well as in the Risk Management Plan. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which was assessed. 
©EMEA 2007 
28/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 - SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES IN THE EU – RMP 
SAFETY CONCERN 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Proposed 
minimisation 
activities 
Risk 
renal 
Possible 
effects  
and  hepatic  effects 
humans 
adverse 
Treatment with Diacomit must be excluded for patient 
with  hepatic  and  renal  impairment  and  liver  function 
tests should be checked on a regular basis 
in 
SPC  4.2  and  4.4
PL 2 and 4  
Potential  for  reproductive 
toxicity 
Caution  should  be  exercised  when  prescribing 
stiripentol  to  women  of  childbearing  potential 
of 
and 
(adolescents) 
contraception should be considered 
efficient  methods 
SPC 
PL 2 
ADVERSE EVENTS 
Appearance 
gastrointestinal disorders 
of 
Specific attention should be paid to the growth rate in 
children under treatment with stiripentol and valproate SPC 
PL 4 
Frequency  of  neurological 
problems 
Close  monitoring  of  doses  of  drugs  frequently  used 
with stiripentol such as clobazam 
SPC 4.2 and 4.4 
PL 4 
4.6
4.4
Some cases of neutropenia Investigation of haematological changes (neutropenia) 
should be performed regularly 
SPC  4.2  and  4.4
PL 4 
DRUG INTERACTION    
STP 
the 
enhanced 
myorelaxation caused  
by diazepam 
STP  enhanced  the  central 
depressant 
of 
chlorpromazine 
effect 
of 
other 
stiripentol 
is  not 
Influence 
antiepileptic drugs  
on 
pharmacokinetics 
known 
Impact 
STP 
metabolism of macrolides 
and 
antifungal 
azole 
agents and impact  
of 
their 
on 
STP 
metabolism are not known
on 
Diazepam and chlorpromazine should be added to the 
list of drug combinations requiring precautions 
The  enhancement  of  the  central  depressant  effect 
should be drawn to the attention of the prescriber. 
A  warning  should  be  introduced.  The  effect  of  other 
antiepileptic  drugs  on  stiripentol  pharmacokinetics  is 
not known 
SPC 
PL 2 
SPC 
PL 2 
SPC 
PL 2 
be 
should 
warning 
introduced 
A 
: 
The  impact  on  STP  metabolism  of  macrolides  and 
azole antifungal agents, that are known to be inhibitors 
of CYP3A4 and substrates of the same enzyme, is not 
known,  neither 
their 
metabolism. 
the  effect of  STP  on 
is 
SPC 
PL 2 
4.5
4.5
4.5
4.5
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
The applicant committed to establish an EU wide post-marketing surveillance study on safety issues 
including specific concerns identified by the CHMP as necessary to be monitored i.e. failure to thrive, 
neutropenia and hepatotoxic potential, psychomotor development and behaviour. 
©EMEA 2007 
29/33 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.5  Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
There are no unresolved quality issues that could have a negative impact on the benefit / risk balance. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Pharmacology 
In  vitro  and  in  vivo  experiments  demonstrated  that  stiripentol  itself  has  pharmacodynamic  activity 
consistent with a potential therapeutic effect in the proposed application.  This consisted of inhibition 
of glycine and GABA uptake by synaptosomes. The R(+) enantiomer was more potent by a factor of 
two. 
This  however,  is  probably  a  minor  component  of  the  anticonvulsant  activity  of  stiripentol,  which  is 
considered to result mainly from the inhibition of enzymes responsible for the metabolism of existing 
anti-epileptic medications.  
There were no findings of clinical concern in a full programme of safety pharmacology studies. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The ADME profile of stiripentol has been adequately characterised.  
Stereoselective  processes  in  the  GI  tract  lead  to  an  enrichment  of  the  S(-)  enantiomer  in  plasma. 
Stiripentol both inhibits (rat brain cytochrome P450-mediated naphthalene hydroxylase inhibition) and 
induces (CYP1A2, 3A, 2C) enzyme activity. 
The  few  toxicokinetic  data  indicate  that  safety  margins  with  respect  to  adverse  effects  observed  in 
toxicity  studies  are  low  or  non-existent.    Unfortunately,  these  are  based  on  Cmax,  there  being  no 
measurement of AUC. Nevertheless, there are no issues of potential clinical concern. 
Toxicology 
A  full  programme  of  toxicity  studies  has  been  submitted.    The  only  finding  of  potential  clinical 
concern was the formation of hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas in the mouse carcinogenicity 
study.  In  spite  of  the  lack  of  any  exposure  margin  at  the  NOEL,  the  CHMP  concluded  that, 
considering  the  relatively  weak  oncogenic  potential  and  the  known  mechanism,  together  with  the 
proposed indication, the risk:benefit was acceptable with a suitable statement in the SPC. 
Efficacy 
Efficacy of stiripentol has been shown in specific combination with clobazam and valproate at a fixed 
dose of 50mg/kg/day on tonic-clonic epilepsy in SMEI in a small number of patients in two pivotal 
trials.  Incremental  doses  proposed  are  virtually  without  any  data.  The  evidence  that  efficacy  of 
stiripentol is maintained in this situation beyond 2 months (long term) is unconvincing based on the 
available data and analysis. The effect on other forms of epilepsy in SMEI is unknown or has not been 
analysed.  
These  studies  were  seriously  flawed  by  failure  to  take  into  account,  in  their  design,  the  prominent 
pharmacokinetic  interactions  known  to  occur  between  stiripentol  and  the  associated  antiepileptic 
drugs. Most notably, no attempt was made to keep comparable concentrations of comedications in the 
two groups. Therefore, results do not allow to exclude that the improvement in seizure control in the 
stiripentol-treated groups were, in fact, purely a consequence of increased serum levels of associated 
drugs, particularly clobazam and its active metabolite norclobazam. 
The  STILON  study,  which  allowed  extended  open-label  stiripentol  treatment  in  patients  completing 
the  STICLO  studies  (as  well  as  patients  receiving  stiripentol  in  other  protocols)  is  the  only  study 
providing data on long-term follow-up in the target indication. This study was less than optimal due to 
its uncontrolled design and loss of about one third of patients to follow-up for efficacy evaluation. 
©EMEA 2007 
30/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
Overall,  the  adverse  event  profile  of  stiripentol  does  not,  by  itself,  give  rise  to  major  concerns. 
Adverse  events  related  to  the  compound  appear  to  be  common,  affect  mostly  the  central  nervous 
system and the gastrointestinal tract, and they are often severe in intensity. However, they appear to be 
reversible, particularly with adjustments in dosage of co-medication. 
From  the  safety  database  all  the  adverse  reactions  reported  in  clinical  trials  and  post-marketing 
(temporary use authorisation) have been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Data  on  safety  issues  including  specific  concerns  identified  by  the  CHMP  as  necessary  to  be 
monitored i.e. failure to thrive, neutropenia and hepatotoxic potential, psychomotor development and 
behaviour will be monitored in an EU wide post-marketing surveillance study. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
•  User consultation 
The results the readability testing performed on Diacomit are satisfactory. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
The  effect  of  stiripentol  has  been  shown  in  specific  combination  with  clobazam  and  valproate  at  a 
fixed  dose  of  50mg/kg/day  on  tonic-clonic  epilepsy  in  SMEI  in  two  pivotal  trials.  Some  limited 
evidence  that  in  the  open  phase,  Stiripentol  retains  its  effectiveness  is  available.  There  is  some 
reassurance albeit limited, of long-term effect during follow-up in the target indication.  
However, the studies are limited in assessing relative contribution of stiripentol to seizure control in 
SMEI. In order to address the concern that placebo group received submaximal doses of clobazam and 
valproate  in  the  STICLO  studies  and  same  effect  may  have  been  achieved  by  simple  increase  in 
clobazam and valproate concentrations, the applicant has agreed to provide a commitment to conduct a 
pivotal efficacy study using maximal tolerated doses. A synopsis of the protocol is available and the 
applicant seeks to obtain scientific advice and protocol assistance from CHMP for such a study.  
Whilst the number of adverse events reported do not raise concern overall, safety of stiripentol in man 
has been demonstrated only in a limited fashion. The applicant only proposes 50mg/kg dose and the 
higher  doses  initially  proposed  in  the  SPC  have  been  withdrawn.  The  adverse  events  cannot  be 
correlated  with  plasma  levels  adequately  and  hence  cannot  be  relied  upon  as  a  guide  to  therapy. 
Despite this lacuna, as the data on the fixed dose of 50mg/kg/day do not raise major safety concerns 
and therefore, safety issues could be considered resolved, albeit with limited data. This is addressed in 
the Risk Management Plan and reflected in the SPC with appropriate restrictions. 
The  follow-up  measures  (FUMs)  and  specific  obligations  (SO)  that  the  applicant  committed  for, 
include: 
•  A  randomised  placebo-controlled  trial  using  stiripentol  as  an  add-on  therapy  in  paediatric 
patients  with  Dravet's  syndrome  (SMEI)  not  adequately  controlled  with  clobazam  and 
valproate by 2009 (SO). 
•  A  bioavailability  study  of  stiripentol  after  single  oral  administration  of  two  500mg 
formulations  (capsule  and  sachet)  in  24  healthy  male  volunteers  to  determine  the  relative 
bioavailability of the stiripentol sachet versus stiripentol capsule by 2007 (SO). 
•  A  population  pharmacokinetic  study  in  Dravet’s  syndrome  (SMEI)  patients  treated  with 
stiripentol, valproate and clobazam (FUM). 
•  An  in  vitro  study  investigating  enzymes  that  catalyse  phase-1  reactions  for  predictions  of 
possible effects of other drugs on stiripentol (FUM). 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion  that  pharmacovigilance  activities  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine  pharmacovigilance  were 
needed to investigate further the following safety concerns through: 
©EMEA 2007 
31/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  A  close  monitoring  of  gastro-intestinal  problems  is  needed  particularly  when  stiripentol  is 
combined with valproate. 
•  A  close  monitoring  of  doses  of  drugs  frequently  used  with  stiripentol  such  as  clobazam  in 
relation to the frequency neurological problems. 
In  addition,  the  applicant  committed  to  establish  an  EU  wide  post-marketing  safety  study  to  collect 
data on safety issues including specific concerns identified by the CHMP as necessary to be monitored 
i.e. failure to thrive, neutropenia and hepatotoxic potential, psychomotor development and behaviour. 
No  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  were  required  beyond  those  included  in  the  product 
information. 
The  CHMP  considers,  that  stiripentol  falls  within  the  scope  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  507/2006,  with 
particular reference to Article 2 based on the following grounds: 
Stiripentol has been designated as orphan medicinal product for its use in severe myoclonic epilepsy in 
infants (SMEI), in accordance with Article 3 of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, on 05 December 2001. 
Furthermore,  SMEI  is  a  severe  disease  resistant  to  all  forms  of  treatment,  and  seriously  debilitating 
due to the development of mental retardation in all children in the second year of life. 
The  CHMP  considers,  that  Diacomit  (stiripentol)  fulfils  the  requirements  of  Article  4  of  Regulation 
(EC) No 507/2006 based on the following grounds: 
(a) In the two placebo-controlled pivotal studies, a significant improvement in controlling the seizure 
frequencies  was  obtained  in  the  stiripentol  group  in  comparison  to  placebo  group,  although  further 
data are necessary to better characterize the clinical efficacy of stiripentol in comparison to maximally 
safe doses of the comedication. 
The safety profile was considered acceptable. 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
risk-benefit  balance  of  stiripentol,  as  defined  in  Article  1(28a)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  for  the 
treatment of severe myoclonic epilepsy in infants (SMEI), was positive. 
(b)  The  applicant  committed  to  provide  as  a  specific  obligation,  the  results  of  a  placebo-controlled 
clinical study where, the doses of clobazam and valproate are increased to the maximal tolerated level 
in the control group, in line with the changes that occur in the active stiripentol group. The study is 
expected  to  assess  the  comparative  effect  of  stiripentol  vs.  placebo  over  12  weeks.  The  CHMP 
considers  that  efficacy  results  from  this  new  placebo-controlled  clinical  study  will  provide 
comprehensive  clinical  data,  in  particular  a  better  understanding  of  the  relative  roles  of  stiripentol 
through its intrinsic anticonvulsant activity or through its effects on the metabolism of the adjunctive 
treatment with clobazam and valproate in SMEI patients. The protocol outline provides an adequate 
description of the planned study, including the duration of treatment (12 week). The protocol will be 
finalised  with  the  support  of  the  Rapporteurs  and  of  a  Scientific  advice  Procedure  (protocol 
assistance). The final study results are expected in the 2d quarter of 2009. Thus, the CHMP considers 
that it is likely that the applicant will be in a position to provide the comprehensive clinical data. 
(c)  Among  childhood  epilepsies,  severe  myoclonic  epilepsy  in  infants  (SMEI)  is  one  of  the  most 
deleterious  epilepsy  syndromes  reported  in  the  syndromic  classification  of  the  International  League 
Against Epilepsy. The stereotyped clinical characteristics and the absence of any cerebral lesion make 
SMEI a nosologically and aetiologically homogeneous syndrome. Seizures appear during the first year 
of life and. all children develop mental retardation in the second year of life, although development is 
normal  before  that  time.  These  seizures  can  never  come  under  complete  control  with  conventional 
antiepileptic drugs. Striripentol is expected to improve the control of seizures in these patients. 
Therefore the CHMP considers that the unmet medical need will be fulfilled for patients with SMEI. 
(d)  Because  seizures  in  SMEI  never  come  under  complete  control  with  conventional  antiepileptic 
drugs,  the  availability  of  stiripentol  is  expected  to  be  the  last  alternative  to  improve  these  severely 
affected  patients.  There  is  evidence  of  efficacy  in  the  data  provided,  although  the  role  of  stiripentol 
needs to be better understood. Therefore the CHMP considers that the benefit to public health of the 
immediate availability on the market of the medicinal product concerned outweighs the risk inherent 
in the fact that additional data are still required. 
©EMEA 2007 
32/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Diacomit  for  use  in  conjunction  with  clobazam  and 
valproate as adjunctive therapy of refractory generalized tonic-clonic seizures in patients with severe 
myoclonic  epilepsy  in  infancy  (SMEI,  Dravet’s  syndrome)  whose  seizures  are  not  adequately 
controlled with clobazam  and valproate, was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of 
the conditional marketing authorisation for Diacomit, subject to the following specific obligations: 
1.  A  randomised  placebo-controlled  trial  using  stiripentol  as  an  add-on  therapy  in  paediatric 
patients  with  Dravet's  syndrome  (SMEI)  not  adequately  controlled  with  clobazam  and 
valproate by 2009 (STP 165). 
2.  A  bioavailability  study  of  stiripentol  after  single  oral  administration  of  two  500mg 
formulations (capsule and sachet) in 24 healthy male volunteers by 2007 (STP 166). 
©EMEA 2007 
33/33 
 
 
 
 
 
