23 January 2014 
EMA/223574/2014  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Dificlir 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: fidaxomicin 
Procedure No.: EMEA/H/C/002087/PSUV/0015 
Period covered by the PSUR: 27 November 2012 – 26 May 2013 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Dificlir, the scientific conclusions of 
PRAC are as follows:  
Fidaxomicin is an antibiotic product belonging to a new class of macrocyclic antibacterial compounds. 
The medicinal product is bactericidal with a specific activity on clostridial RNA polymerases. The only 
indication is Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) or C. difficile-associated diarrhoea (CDAD) in adults. 
The posology is as follows: 200 mg of fidaxomicin is administered orally 2 times daily for 10 days; 
the absorption is very limited. 
Fidaxomicin has been clearly established as clinically “non-inferior” to vancomycin, the current 
standard of treatment for CDI.  Two large randomised phase 3 studies compared fidaxomicin with 
vancomycin.  A total of 1,147 subjects were included in the 2 studies. The crude average of the 
clinical response rates in fidaxomicin subjects for the two phase 3 studies was 88.0%. In addition, 
the risk of recurrence was lower for fidaxomicin than for vancomycin. The crude average of the 
recurrence rates for the two studies is 14.3% for fidaxomicin and 26.0% for vancomycin. 
The safety profile obtained in clinical trials and from the post-marketing data is favourable. The 
important adverse events are various gastrointestinal symptoms, headache, dizziness and 
hypersensitivity. Three additional reports of possible hypersensitivity have been identified in the 
present PSUR, although they do not significantly alter the characterization of this risk. 
Hypersensitivity has been included in the company’s core data sheet (CCDS) and local reference 
safety information for fidaxomicin in the USA, Canada, Australia, and the EU. In addition, the MAH 
proposed to add a warning to the SmPC in section 4.4 that fidaxomicin should be used with caution in 
patients with a known macrolide allergy, as some patients with hypersensitivity reactions reported a 
history of allergy to macrolides. As the antigenic determinants of macrolides and macrocycles, at 
which allergic immune reactions are directed, are unknown, the PRAC agreed to this proposal and 
recommended the variation of the MA within this PSUR. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Dificlir, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance fidaxomicin is favourable subject to 
the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Dificlir  
EMA/223574/2014  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
