EMA/31758/2020  
EMEA/H/C/2087 
Dificlir (fidaxomicin) 
An overview of Dificlir and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Dificlir and what is it used for? 
Dificlir is a medicine used to treat children and adults with infections of the gut caused by bacteria 
called Clostridioides difficile. 
Dificlir contains the active substance fidaxomicin. 
How is Dificlir used? 
Dificlir is available as tablets (200 mg) or granules for oral suspension (40 mg/ml) and can only be 
obtained with a prescription. 
In adults and children weighing at least 12.5 kg, the recommended dose is 200 mg twice a day (every 
12 hours) for 10 days. For children weighing less than 12.5 kg, the dose depends on the bodyweight. 
For more information about using Dificlir, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Dificlir work? 
C. difficile are bacteria that are present naturally in the gut and do not cause any problems in healthy 
people. This is because they are kept under control by other ‘good’ bacteria which are beneficial to the 
body and enhance health. However, some antibiotics that are used to treat infections can interfere with 
the balance and kill the 'good' bacteria in the gut. When this happens, C. difficile bacteria can multiply 
and produce toxins (poisons) which cause illness such as diarrhoea and fever. At this point, a person is 
said to be infected with C. difficile. 
The active substance in Dificlir, fidaxomicin, is an antibiotic that belongs to the class of macrocylic 
antibiotics. When it is swallowed most of the active substance does not get absorbed into the blood 
stream but acts locally on C. difficile bacteria in the gut. It works by blocking the bacterial enzyme RNA 
polymerase, which is used to produce the genetic material that the bacteria need to make proteins. 
This stops the C. difficile bacteria from growing and multiplying, thereby reducing the symptoms of the 
disease. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Dificlir have been shown in studies? 
Dificlir was at least as effective as vancomycin (another antibiotic for C. difficile infections) in three 
main studies in patients with mild to moderately severe C. difficile infection. The results of two studies 
involving a total of 1,147 adults showed that 92% of patients taking Dificlir were cured after 10 days 
compared with 90% of patients taking vancomycin. 
In the third study, which involved 148 patients aged from birth to 18 years, 78% of patients taking 
Dificlir were cured 2 days after the end of treatment, compared with 71% of patients taking 
vancomycin.  
What are the risks associated with Dificlir? 
The most common side effects with Dificlir (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are nausea (feeling 
sick), vomiting and constipation. For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Dificlir, see the 
package leaflet. 
Why is Dificlir authorised in the EU? 
Dificlir is effective at curing C. difficile infections and is generally well tolerated. Its side effects are 
similar to those of vancomycin by mouth. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that the 
benefits of Dificlir are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Dificlir? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Dificlir have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Dificlir are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Dificlir are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Dificlir 
Dificlir received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 5 December 2011. 
Further information on Dificlir can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/dificlir.  
This overview was last updated in 01-2020. 
Dificlir (fidaxomicin)  
EMA/31758/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
