PART VI.
Data-lock point for this Module
SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN
17-Oct-2019
Version when Module last updated
13.0
Summary of Risk Management Plan for Dificlir (Fidaxomicin)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Dificlir. The RMP details 
important risks of Dificlir, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will 
be obtained about the product’s risks and uncertainties (missing information).
Dificlir’s SmPC and its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals 
and patients on how Dificlir should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Dificlir should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report. 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Dificlir’s RMP.
The medicine and What it is Used for
I. 
Dificlir (fidaxomicin) is authorized for the treatment of Clostridioides difficile infection also 
known as Clostridioides difficile-associated diarrhea in adult and pediatric patients. Dificlir 
contains fidaxomicin as the active substance and is available as film-coated tablet or granules 
for oral suspension for oral use.
Further information about the evaluation of Dificlir’s benefits can be found in Dificlir’s 
European Public Assessment Report, including in its plain-language summary, available on 
the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage:
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/dificlir
II.
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or
Further Characterize the Risks
Important risks of Dificlir, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies, if any for learning more about Dificlir's risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
● Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
● Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
● The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that
the medicine is used correctly;
● The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analyzed, including periodic safety update report assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance 
activities.
If important information that may affect the safe use of Dificlir is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of Dificlir are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Dificlir. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine).
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important identified risks
 None
Important potential risks
 None
Missing information
 None
II.B Summary of Important Risks
None.
II.C Post-authorization Development Plan
II.C.1 Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific 
obligation of Dificlir.
II.C.2 Other Studies in Postauthorization Development Plan
There are no studies required for Dificlir.
