(missing information). 
details important risks of Dimethyl Fumarate Polpharma, how these risks can be minimised, and how 
This summary of the RMP for Dimethyl Fumarate Polpharma should be read in the context of all this 
Dimethyl Fumarate Polpharma's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Dimethyl Fumarate Polpharma. The RMP 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all 
Polpharma should be used.  
Fumarate Polpharma's RMP. 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Dimethyl Fumarate 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Dimethyl 
more information will be obtained about Dimethyl Fumarate Polpharma's risks and uncertainties 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Summary of risk management plan for Dimethyl 
Fumarate Polpharma (Dimethyl fumarate) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
multiple sclerosis (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains dimethyl fumarate as the active 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/dimethyl-fumarate-polpharm . 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
website, under the medicine’s webpage 
substance and it is given by mouth. 
Further information about the evaluation of Dimethyl Fumarate Polpharma’s benefits can be found in 
Dimethyl Fumarate Polpharma’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
Dimethyl Fumarate Polpharma is authorised for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting 
the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more  about  Dimethyl  Fumarate  Polpharma's  risks,  are  outlined 
Important risks of Dimethyl Fumarate Polpharma, together with measures to minimise such risks and 
below. 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
Important identified risks 
(e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
Important risks of Dimethyl Fumarate Polpharma are risks that need special risk management activities 
List of important risks and missing information  
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Dimethyl Fumarate Polpharma is not yet 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed , including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there 
is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Dimethyl Fumarate Polpharma. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Safety profile in patients with severe active GI disease 
Serious and opportunistic infections (other than PML) 
Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML)  
Safety profile in patients over the age of 55 years 
Safety profile in patients with hepatic impairment 
anti-neoplastic or immunosuppressive therapies 
Safety profile in patients with renal impairment 
Decreases in leukocyte and lymphocyte counts 
Interaction with nephrotoxic medications leading to renal 
Effects on pregnancy outcome 
Long term efficacy and safety 
Drug-induced liver injury 
Malignancies 
toxicity 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Increased risk of infection in patients concomitantly taking 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
product. 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Dimethyl Fumarate Polpharma. 
 
 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Dimethyl Fumarate Polpharma. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
 
 
