Note 
Assessment report 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/005955/0000 
Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma  
International non-proprietary name: dimethyl fumarate 
24 February 2022 
EMA/150754/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
5. Appendix ............................................................................................... 28 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 26 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 26 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 7 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 7 
1.2. Legal basis, dossier content ................................................................................... 7 
1.3. Information on paediatric requirements................................................................... 8 
1.4. Information relating to orphan market exclusivity ..................................................... 8 
1.5. Scientific advice ................................................................................................... 9 
1.6. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 9 
2. Scientific discussion .............................................................................. 10 
2.1. Introduction....................................................................................................... 10 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 10 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 15 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 16 
2.5. Risk Management Plan ........................................................................................ 24 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 25 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 26 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 2/68 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ANOVA   
Analysis of variance 
AUCinf   
AUCt  
AAS 
AP 
API 
AR 
ARR  
ASM 
ASMF 
ATC  
AUC  
Bioequivalence 
Atomic Absorption Spectrometry 
Assessment Report 
Area Under the Curve 
Annualized Relapse Rate 
Active Substance Manufacturer 
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
Certificate of Suitability of the EP 
Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical 
Biopharmaceutics Classification System 
Applicant's Part (or Open Part) of a ASMF 
Active Substance Master File = Drug Master File 
Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to time t 
Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
European Directorate for the Quality of Medicines 
Chemical Reference Substance (official standard) 
Decentralised (Application) Procedure 
Differential Scanning Calorimetry 
Maximum plasma concentration 
Common Technical Document 
Disease-Modifying Treatment 
Drug Product Manufacturer 
Concerned Member State 
Central Nervous System 
Certificate of Analysis 
Colony Forming Units 
Dimethyl fumarate 
Cytochrome P450 
BCS  
BE  
CEP  
CFU 
CMS 
CNS  
CoA 
CRS 
CTD  
CYP  
DMF  
DMT  
DP 
DPM 
DSC 
Cmax    
EDQM   
EDSS    
Expanded Disability Status Scale 
EMA  
EP 
European Medicines Agency 
European Pharmacopoeia 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 3/68 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FT-IR 
Fourier Transform infrared spectroscopy 
GC 
Gas chromatography 
Gd(+)    
Gadolinium enhancing lesion 
LC-MS/MS  
LDPE 
LLOQ    
HDPE 
HPLC 
ICP-OES 
IMP  
IPC 
IR 
ISR  
IU 
Infrared 
Letter of Access 
Limit of Detection 
In-process control 
International Units 
Low Density Polyethylene 
High Density Polyethylene 
Lower Limit of Quantitation 
Incurred Sample Reanalysis 
Investigational Medicinal Product 
High performance liquid chromatography 
Inductively coupled plasma – optical emission spectroscopy 
Liquid Chromatography with tandem Mass Spectrophotometry 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Mass Spectrometry (Quality part) 
No Evidence of Disease Activity 
Marketing Authorisation holder 
Magnetic Resonance Imaging 
Medicines Evaluation Board 
Marketing Authorisation 
Methyl tert-Butyl Ether 
Monomethyl fumarate 
Limit of Quantitation 
Methyl ethyl ketone 
Multiple Sclerosis 
List of Questions 
Not less than 
Not detected 
LOA 
LOD 
LOQ 
LoQ 
MA 
MAH 
MEB 
MEK 
MMF  
MRI  
MS  
MS 
MTBE 
ND 
NEDA    
NLT 
NMR 
NMT 
Nrf2  
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
Not more than 
Nuclear factor-like-2 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 4/68 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NtA  
OC  
Notice to Applicants 
Oral Contraceptive 
PPMS    
Ph.Eur.  
Out of Specifications 
OOS 
OTC  
PDE 
PE 
PIL 
PK  
PL  
PP 
PVC 
QC  
QOS 
RH 
RMS 
RP 
RRT 
RSD 
Polyethylene 
Polypropylene 
Quality Control 
Package Leaflet 
Over the Counter 
Pharmacokinetics 
Relative Humidity 
Poly vinyl chloride 
Quality Overall Summary 
Permitted Daily Exposure 
European Pharmacopoeia 
Patient Information Leaflet 
Primary Progressive Multiple Sclerosis 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Time to reach maximum plasma concentration following drug administration 
Time to reach maximum plasma concentration 
Restricted Part (or Closed Part) of a ASMF 
Secondary Progressive Multiple Sclerosis 
Relapsing-Remitting Multiple Sclerosis 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Thermo-Gravimetric Analysis 
Relative standard deviation 
Reference Member State 
Relative retention time 
Elimination half-life 
Triethylamine 
T helper cell 
Lag time 
SmPC    
SPMS    
T1/2  
TGA 
TEA 
Th  
Tlag  
Tmax    
Tmax    
RRMS    
TTC 
Threshold of Toxicological Concern 
USP/NF  
United States Pharmacopoeia/National Formulary 
UV 
Ultraviolet 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 5/68 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
XRD 
X-Ray Diffraction 
* This is a general list of abbreviations. Not all abbreviations will be used. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 6/68 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 2001/83/EC, 
through the centralised procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a 
marketing authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma, 
The applicant Zaklady Farmaceutyczne Polpharma S.A. submitted on 30 May 2021 an application for 
EMA/CHMP on 14 December 2017. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
1.2.  Legal basis, dossier content 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis. 
for which a marketing authorisation is or has been granted in the Union on the basis of a complete 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
Centrally authorised product’. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and 
bioequivalence studies with the reference medicinal product Tecfidera instead of non-clinical and 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
−  Union 
Marketing authorisation numbers: 
120 mg: EU/1/13/837/001, 240 mg: EU/1/13/837/002, 003 
Marketing authorisation holder: Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Marketing authorisation holder: Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
Date of authorisation: 30-01-2014 
Date of authorisation: 30-01-2014 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Tecfidera, 120 mg and 240 mg hard capsules. 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Tecfidera, 120 mg and 240 mg hard capsules. 
clinical unless justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: 
less than 8 years in the EEA:  
reference medicinal product:  
Medicinal product authorised in the Union/Members State where the application is made or European 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
Marketing authorisation numbers: 
120 mg: EU/1/13/837/001, 240 mg: EU/1/13/837/002, 003 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 7/68 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force and to 
which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
General Court held that Tecfidera does not benefit from an independent global marketing authorisation. 
prejudice to its position in the appellate proceedings, the Agency has conducted an ad hoc assessment 
In light of the scientific conclusions outlined in its Opinion of 11 November 2021, the CHMP is of the 
relating to the therapeutic effect of monoethyl fumarate salts (MEF) within Fumaderm (in this respect, 
see the Opinion and assessment report adopted by the CHMP on 11 November 2021).2 
Additional considerations in relation to the regulatory data protection period of Tecfidera 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
pending. Nevertheless, for the purpose of implementing the General Court’s ruling, but without 
EMA has lodged an appeal against the General Court’s ruling, and the appellate proceedings are 
By its Judgment of 5 May 2021 in Case T-611/18, Pharmaceutical Works Polpharma v EMA,1 the 
view that the totality of the available data cannot establish that MEF exerts a clinically relevant 
therapeutic contribution within Fumaderm. Those scientific conclusions and the Judgment of the 
Date of authorisation: 30-01-2014 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Tecfidera, 240 mg hard capsules 
Marketing authorisation holder: Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
−  Union 
−  Marketing authorisation numbers: EU/1/13/837/002, 003 
Bioavailability study numbers: 2149 and 2150 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
benefit from an independent global marketing authorisation. This also entails that, following the 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with 
1.4.  Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
General Court of 5 May 2021 in Case T-611/18 support the determination that Tecfidera does not 
1.3.  Information on paediatric requirements 
above referenced appellate proceedings. 
1.4.1.  Similarity 
condition related to the proposed indication. 
Not applicable 
application, from any marketing protection. This position is without prejudice to the outcome of the 
General Court’s reasoning, Tecfidera could not benefit, at the time of the submission of this generic 
authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
In this respect, see: Judgment of the General Court of 5 May 2021 in Pharmaceutical Works Polpharma v EMA, T- 
1  
           611/18, EU:T:2021:241. 
2  
In this respect, see: the Appendix to the present assessment report. 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 8/68 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.5.  Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek Scientific advice from the CHMP. 
Rapporteur: 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
1.6.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The procedure started on 
PRAC and CHMP members on 
CHMP and PRAC members on 
the applicant during the meeting on 
The application was received by the EMA on 
fumarate salts (MEF) within Fumaderm started on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
The CHMP Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to 
The ad hoc assessment relating to the therapeutic effect of monoethyl 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
30 May 2021 
17 June 2021 
24 June 2021 
6 September 2021 
19 September 2021 
Ewa Balkowiec Iskra  Co-Rapporteur: N/A 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
10 November 2021 
11 November 2021 
13 December 2021 
14 October 2021 
13 January 2022 
31 January 2022 
27 January 2022 
9 February 2022 
Assessment Report on the applicant's responses to the List of Questions 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
The CHMP Rapporteur circulated the CHMP and PRAC Rapporteurs Joint 
The CHMP Rapporteur circulated the CHMP and PRAC Rapporteurs Joint 
Assessment Report on the responses to the List of Outstanding Issues 
establish that MEF exerts a clinically relevant therapeutic contribution 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to 
The CHMP concluded that the totality of the available data cannot 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be sent to the 
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
24 February 2022 
to all CHMP and PRAC members on 
CHMP during the meeting on 
to all CHMP members on 
Outstanding Issues on  
within Fumaderm on 
Questions on 
applicant on 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting 
a marketing authorisation to Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma on  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 9/68 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
was requested. 
2.2.1.  Introduction  
2.2.  Quality aspects 
dimethyl fumarate as active substance. 
Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma 120 and 240 mg hard capsules.  
on 30 January 2014 (MAA No: EU/1/13/837/001-003, Biogen Netherlands B.V.). 
Tecfidera: treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis. 
The proposed indication for Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma is the same as for the reference product 
The finished product is presented as hard gastro-resistant capsules containing 120 mg and 240 mg of 
The reference product is Tecfidera 120 mg and 240 mg hard capsules. Tecfidera was approved in Europe 
This  application  concerns a  generic  application  according to  article  10(1)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC  for 
To support the application the Applicant submitted two pivotal bioequivalence studies between Dimethyl 
fumarate Polpharma 240 mg hard capsules and reference product  Tecfidera 240 mg hard capsules in 
order to assess the bioequivalence between the products. A biowaiver for the additional 120 mg strength 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Capsule content: croscarmellose sodium, silica, colloidal anhydrous, sodium stearyl fumarate, 
methacrylic acid - methyl methacrylate copolymer (1:1), methacrylic acid - ethyl acrylate copolymer 
(1:1) dispersion 30 per cent, talc, triethyl citrate, polysorbate 80, and glycerol monostearate 40-55; 
The chemical name of the active substance is dimethyl (E)-but-2-enedioate corresponding to the 
molecular formula C6H8O4. It has a relative molecular weight of 144.13 and the following structure: 
Capsule ink: shellac glaze, black iron oxide (E172), propylene glycol (E1520), ammonium hydroxide 
The product is available in aluminium/PVC/PVDC blisters as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC.  
Capsule: gelatin, titanium dioxide (E171), yellow iron oxide (E172), brilliant blue FCF (E133); 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
Other ingredients are:  
General information 
28%. 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 10/68 
 
 
 
  
 
of pH 1.2, 4.5 and 6.8 at room temperature (25 °C).  
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Polymorphism has not been observed for active substance.  
satisfactory. 
specifications.  
The active substance is a non-hygroscopic, white to off-white powder, highly soluble in buffer solutions 
The chemical structure elucidated by a combination of thermal analysis by DSC, UV study, FT-IR study, 
NMR Study (1HNMR and 13CNMR), mass spectra, X-ray powder diffraction, and elemental analysis.  
The active substance is manufactured by one manufacturer. Detailed information on the manufacturing 
of the active substance has been provided in the restricted part of the ASMF and it was considered 
Two geometric isomers/stereoisomers Cis and Trans exist. Trans isomer is thermodynamically stable 
and is the desired isomer. Undesired isomer (cis-isomer) is not possible in the active substance. 
Figure 1: Active substance structure 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
concerning potential impurities, control strategy, supporting analytical data and analytical methods 
validation reports were provided in the restricted part (RP) of the ASMF documentation. Impurities 
originating from starting material, or from solvents (benzene) are provided in the RP ASMF. 
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods 
for starting materials and reagents have been presented. 
A discussion concerning possible organic and inorganic impurities, potential genotoxic impurities, 
identification (IR, HPLC), water content (Ph. Eur.), sulphated ash (Ph. Eur.), related substance (HPLC), 
Dimethyl fumarate is synthesized in 1 main step using well-defined starting materials with acceptable 
nitrosamine impurities, elemental impurities and residual solvents have been presented. Further details 
Potential and actual impurities were well-discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. 
The active substance specification covers all required parameters and is acceptable. The impurity levels 
The active substance specification , includes tests for description (visual), solubility (Ph. Eur.), 
The characterisations of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU 
assay (HPLC), and residual solvents (GC). 
Specification 
guideline. 
are within the qualification threshold according to ICH Q3A and this was considered satisfactory. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and (non-compendial methods) 
appropriately validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the 
reference standards used for testing has been presented. 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 11/68 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Batch analysis data on 3 commercial scale batches of non- micronized and micronized of the active 
substance are provided. The results are within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
indicating.  
the ICH guidelines were provided.  
the proposed supplier is sufficiently stable.  
RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided.  
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
The following parameters were tested: description, identification, water, related substances and assay 
The stability results indicate that the unmicronised and  micronised active substance manufactured by 
conditions (5 ºC) and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) according to 
the unmicronised active substance  and 36 months for micronised material in the proposed container. 
term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 75% 
Stability data from 3 commercial scale batches of the micronised active substance from the proposed 
The stability results justify the proposed retest period of 48 months stored at temperature 2-8 °C for 
manufacturer stored in the intended commercial package for up to 24 months under long term 
Stability data from 3 commercial scale batches of the non-micronised active substance from the 
(on anhydrous basis). The analytical methods used were the same as for release and were stability 
proposed manufacturer stored in the intended commercial package for up to 60 months under long 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
the reference medicinal product Tecfidera. The reference product is a multiparticulate dosage form – 
hard gelatin capsule filled with enteric coated minitablets. It was decided that the developed product 
should have similar (multiparticulate) design, however the form of the capsule filling will be different 
from the reference medicinal product. A product in form of hard gelatin capsules filled with granules 
The 240 mg strength finished product is presented as a hard gelatin capsules, length: 23 mm, light-
green, with overprint on the body 240 mg. 
The 120 mg strength finished product is presented as a  hard gelatin capsules, length: 19 mm, with 
interactions between dimethyl fumarate and the excipients selected for the final formulation were 
Compatibility tests of the active substance with the prosed excipients were performed in order to 
detect potential incompatibilities, which could be observed in final formulation. No remarkable 
The primary goal of the development was to formulate a finished product that could be easily 
manufactured, that would be stable in the proposed packaging and that would be essentially similar to 
white body and light-green cap, with overprint on the body 120 mg. 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
coated with gastroresistant polymers has been developed. 
found. 
The selection of excipients was made mainly based on the composition of the reference medicinal 
product as well as based on the development experiments. All excipients are well known 
pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur. standards. There are no novel 
excipients used in the finished product formulation. The list of excipients is included in section 6.1 of 
the SmPC. 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 12/68 
 
 
 
  
Two pivotal bioequivalence studies with the 240 mg strength under fast and fed conditions have been 
carried out between the generic and the reference medicinal product. The results of the studies 
confirmed bioequivalence of the developed generic product with the reference product. 
below in this report. 
Product specification  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The manufacturing process consists of 16 main steps.  
The finished product is manufactured by two manufacturing sites.  
by stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the product. 
A detailed description of the manufacturing process development has been provided. 
The primary packaging is Al/PVC/PVDC blister packs. Primary packaging materials comply with the 
Holding time for the in-bulk product has been established by appropriate stability studies discussed 
dosage forms for oral administration"). The choice of the container closure system has been validated 
requirement of Commission Regulation (EU) no. 10/2011 of 14 January 2011 as amended and with the 
Ph. Eur. (chapter 3.1.11. "Materials based on non-plasticized poly (vinyl chloride) for containers for dry 
Major steps of the manufacturing process have been validated by a number of studies in 3 commercial 
scale  batches  per  strength.  It  has  been  demonstrated  that  the  manufacturing  process  is  capable  of 
producing the finished product of intended quality in a reproducible manner. The in-process controls are 
adequate for this type of manufacturing  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
(visual), capsule average net weight (weight), uniformity of dosage units (Ph. Eur.), identification of 
titanium dioxide (chemical identification), identification of yellow iron oxide (E172) (chemical 
identification), identification of brilliant blue FCF –FD&C Blue 1 (E133) (UV/VIS), water content in filling 
products” (EMA/409815/2020) and the “Assessment report- Procedure under Article 5(3) of Regulation 
EC (No) 726/2004- Nitrosamine impurities in human medicinal products” (EMA/369136/2020). Based 
The finished product release specifications, shown in Error! Reference source not found., include 
appropriate tests for this kind of dosage form: appearance (visual), appearance of capsule content 
as Major Objection) has been performed considering all suspected and actual root causes in line with 
the “Questions and answers for marketing authorisation holders/applicants on the CHMP Opinion for 
assessment  in line with the ICH Q3D Guideline for Elemental Impurities. Based on the risk assessment 
the Article 5(3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 referral on nitrosamine impurities in human medicinal 
A risk evaluation concerning the presence of nitrosamine impurities in the finished product (requested 
of capsule  (KF), identification of dimethyl fumarate (HPLC, GC), related substances (HPLC), assay of 
 The potential presence of elemental impurities in the finished product has been assessed by a risk- 
dimethyl fumarate (HPLC), content of 2-propanol (GC), dissolution test, microbiological tests (Ph. 
on the information provided it is accepted that no risk was identified on the possible presence of 
it can be concluded that it is not necessary to include any elemental impurity controls.  
Eur.), total aerobic microbial count (TAMC) (Ph. Eur.), total yeast / moulds count 
nitrosamine impurities in the active substance or the related finished product. Therefore, no additional 
control is needed. 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 13/68 
 
 
 
  
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in 
accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used 
for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
marketing.  
stability indicating.  
Stability of the product 
manufacture to the intended product specification. 
Batch analysis results are provided for 3 commercial band pilot batches per strength manufactured by 
(40 ºC / 75% RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided. The batches of medicinal product are 
water content in filling of capsules, related substances, assay, dissolution, total aerobic microbial count 
stored for up to 36 months under long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH), stored up to 12 months 
No significant changes have been observed under long term conditions. In addition, one batch was 
Samples were tested for appearance, appearance of capsule content, capsules average net weight, 
(TAMC), total yeasts/ moulds count (TYMC) and Escherichia coli. The analytical procedures used are 
Stability data from 3 commercial batches per strength and per manufacturing site of finished product 
the two manufacturing sites confirming the consistency of the manufacturing process and its ability to 
exposed to light as defined in the ICH Guideline on Photostability Testing of New Drug Substances and 
Products. The finished product is considered as photo-stable. The product does not require any special 
protection form light. 
identical to those proposed for marketing and were packed in the primary packaging proposed for 
under intermediate conditions (30 ºC / 65% RH) for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
been presented in a satisfactory manner. One issue was raised by CHMP as Major Objection (MO) 
related to nitrosamine risk assessment. The issue was resolved satisfactorily by the applicant as 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
first day of combining active ingredient with other ingredients according to CPMP/QWP/072/96 
Valid TSE CEP from the suppliers of the gelatine used in the manufacture is provided.  
not store above 30 °C” as stated in the SmPC (section 6.3 and 6.4) are acceptable. 
before packaging in the immediate package. The batches were packed in PET-Al-PE multilayer bag and 
The hard capsules used in the product manufacturing contain gelatine obtained from bovine sources . 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 24 months and the storage conditions “Do 
in  PE bag and stored for up to 6 months under long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH). Based on the 
Holding time studies were performed for the finished  product to establish the in-bulk storage period 
available data the total holding time should not take more than 6 months and is calculated from the 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
Adventitious agents 
Guideline. 
described above. The biowaiver for the 120 mg strength is in line with the Guideline on the 
Investigation of Bioequivalence and thus accepted. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency 
and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion 
that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 14/68 
 
 
 
  
The applicant has applied QbD principles in the development of the active substance and/or finished 
product and their manufacturing process. However, no design spaces were claimed for the 
manufacturing process of the active substance, nor for the finished product. 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has 
Not applicable. 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
been presented to give reassurance on viral/TSE safety 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
OECD107 or … 
Substance (INN/Invented Name): Dimethyl fumarate 
Bioaccumulation potential- log 
CAS-number (if available): 
PBT-assessment 
PBT screening 
Result 
(Y/N) 
0.82 
Kow 
(EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00 Rev. 1), the Applicant estimated the PECsurfacewater for Dimethyl 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
fumarate at 2.4 μg /L and phase II environmental effect analysis was performed. 
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
An Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) has been submitted.  
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Conclusion 
Potential PBT 
According to the Guideline on the environmental risk assessment of medicinal products for human use 
PBT-statement : 
The compound is considered as PBT 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 15/68 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Phase I  
Calculation 
Value 
Unit 
Conclusion 
> 0.01 threshold 
In addition, it is noted that the introduction of Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma is unlikely to result in any 
fumarate. 
It is agreed that Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma does not present a risk to the environment. 
significant increase in the combined sales volumes and exposure of the environment to dimethyl 
PEC surfacewater , default or 
2.4 
g/L 
Test  
literature) 
Study type  
Test/Species  
Test/Species  
Inhibition Test  
Algae, Growth Inhibition 
refined (e.g. prevalence, 
Daphnia sp. Reproduction 
Phase IIa Effect studies  
Activated Sludge, Respiration 
Fish, Early Life Stage Toxicity 
37 
EC 
45.7 
55.9 
µg/L 
µg/L 
2000 
(Y/N) 
NOEC 
NOEC 
NOEC 
Endpoint 
OECD 211 
OECD 210 
OECD 209 
OECD 201 
µg/L  species 
µg/L  species 
Test protocol 
value  Unit  Remarks 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
mg and 240 mg of Dimethyl fumarate. To support the marketing authorisation application, the 
The non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. 
The CHMP considers the non-clinical aspects adequate to support this application. 
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
was considered acceptable. 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided and 
is  adequate.  The  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  data  of  dimethyl  fumarate  are  well 
known, and thus new non-clinical data are not required. The impurity profile has been discussed and 
This is an application for a generic product consisting of gastro-resistant hard capsules containing 120 
applicant conducted 2 bioequivalence studies with the 240 mg strength based on cross-over designs 
under fasting and fed conditions.  
The applicant also provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics 
as well as efficacy and safety of dimethyl fumarate based on published literature. The Product 
Information is in line with the SmPC of the reference product. 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 16/68 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal product.  
For the clinical assessment the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98), the ‘Guideline on the pharmacokinetic and clinical evaluation of modified 
GCP aspect 
of particular relevance.  
process, and the dissolution profiles are similar. 
Exemption 
capsules. 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
release dosage forms’ (EMA/CHMP/EWP/280/96 Rev1), the ‘Guideline on quality of oral modified 
This application is for Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma 120 mg and 240 mg gastro-resistant hard 
release products’  EMA/CHMP/QWP/428693/2013 and the EMA dimethyl fumarate gastro-resistant 
strength was requested. In line with the Guideline, this exemption required that the composition is 
Bioequivalence was demonstrated for the 240 mg strength and a biowaiver for the additional 120 mg 
manufacturer (Pharmaceutical Works Polpharma SA). The qualitative composition is the same and the 
proportional, the formulations contain identical granules and are produced by the same manufacturing 
capsules 120 mg and 240 mg product-specific bioequivalence guidance (EMA/CHMP/421315/2017) are 
The 2 strengths of Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma are manufactured by the same process and the same 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Title:  A Single-Dose, Randomized, Open-Label, Four-Way, Fully Replicate, Pivotal, Bioequivalence 
Study of Dimethyl fumarate 240 mg Gastro-Resistant Hard Capsules (Pharmaceutical Works Polpharma 
S.A.) and TECFIDERA® (dimethyl fumarate) 240 mg Gastro- Resistant Hard Capsules (Biogen Idec 
Ltd.) in Healthy Male and Non-Pregnant Female Volunteers under Fasting Conditions. 
The similarity of the dissolution profiles was shown and bioequivalence studies for additional 120 mg 
The dissolution tests were conducted with Dimethyl fumarate 240 mg and 120 mg on 12 capsules 
2.4.2.  Clinical pharmacology 
2.4.2.1.  Pharmacokinetics 
composition is proportional.  
strength are not required. 
Study 2149 
each.  
Methods 
•  Study design  
This was a pivotal, single-dose, randomized, open-label, four-period, two-sequence, two treatment, 
single-Centre, fully replicate study designed to evaluate the comparative bioavailability of monomethyl 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 17/68 
 
 
 
  
 
 
fumarate from Dimethyl fumarate 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules and Tecfidera® 240 mg 
gastro-resistant hard capsules administered to healthy male and non-pregnant female subjects under 
fasting conditions. Subjects were randomly assigned to one of the two dosing sequences. 
Duration of treatment: 
Drug Concentration Measurements 
•  Population(s) studied 
The washout interval between drug administrations was 3 days. 
administration of either the Test product or the Reference product.  
Blood samples were collected from 22 time points in each study period. 
The study consisted of four study periods. Each study period included a single-dose drug 
Treatments Administered: 
In each study period, subjects were dosed according to the randomization scheme with one of the 
following treatments: Treatment A (1 x 240 mg Dimethyl fumarate gastro-resistant hard capsules) or 
Treatment B (1 x 240 mg Tecfidera® gastro-resistant hard capsules) 
Each subject was scheduled to receive a total of two treatments (each treatment twice) by the end of 
the study.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
AUCt: Area under the concentration-time curve from time zero until the last measurable concentration 
or last sampling time t, whichever occurs first.  
The validation report for the analytical method was provided. The acceptance criteria were met for the 
Healthy volunteers were enrolled and dosed in Period 1 and completed the study in its entirety. The 
relevant parameters such as specificity, sensitivity, precision, accuracy, linearity, matrix effect, and 
spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), was developed for analysing the metabolite monomethyl fumarate in 
An analytical method, using a high-performance liquid chromatography with tandem mass 
AUCinf: Area under the concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity 
data were included in the pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis. 
•  Pharmacokinetic variables 
The following parameters were calculated: 
•  Analytical methods 
dilution integrity. 
human plasma. 
Validation:  
Cmax: Maximal observed plasma concentration.  
Residual Area or AUC(res%) Extrapolated area under the curve, (AUCinf - AUCt)/AUCinf. 
T1/2: Terminal elimination half-life. 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 18/68 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tmax: Time when the maximal plasma concentration is observed. 
λ: Terminal elimination rate constant. 
Results 
•  Statistical methods 
The 90% confidence intervals of the Test/Reference ratios for AUCt, AUCinf, and Cmax were 
calculated. Power for treatment comparisons for the pharmacokinetic parameters was calculated as the 
probability (type I error fixed at the 5% level) of detecting a difference at least equal to 20% of the 
reference treatment mean. 
The following standards were used to determine bioequivalence for monomethyl fumarate: 
1. The Geometric Mean Ratio (GMR) of the test to reference product and associated 90% CI of the 
AUCt should be within 80% - 125% regardless of its variability. 
2. The GMR of the test to reference product of the Cmax should be within 80% - 125%. 
3. The 90% CI for the GMR of the test to reference product of the Cmax should be within the following 
limits, depending on the calculated SWR (within subject standard deviation of the reference product) of 
the ln-transformed Cmax. As per EMA guidance, the extent of the widening is defined based upon the 
within subject variability seen in the bioequivalence study using scaled-average bioequivalence 
according to [U, L] = exp (± k × SWR), where U is the upper limit of the acceptance range, L is the 
lower limit of the acceptance range, k is the regulatory constant set to 0.760. 
a) Lower limit of 80.00% to upper limit of 125.00%, if SWR ≤ 0.294 (i.e., CV ≤ 30%) 
b) Lower limit of exp (-0.760 × SWR) × 100.00% to upper limit of exp (0.76×SWR)×100.00%, if 
0.294 <SWR<0.472 (30% < CV <50%). 
c) Lower limit of 69.84% to upper limit of 143.19%, if SWR ≥ 0.472 (CV≥50%) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Table 3.3.2.1. Bioequivalence results of plasma monomethyl fumarate 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 19/68 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The final bioequivalence analysis results, based on the revised data to include the revised dilution 
factor (1:1), are included below: 
Table 3.3.2.2. Bioequivalence results of plasma monomethyl fumarate (after inclusion of dilution 
factor 1:1) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
•  Safety data 
A total of 102 mild AEs was experienced by the subjects after treatment with the Test product. A total 
of 117 mild AEs was experienced by the subjects after treatment with the Reference product. 
The safety profiles of the Reference and the Test Product were comparable. 
Title: A Single-Dose, Randomized, Open-Label, Two-Way, Crossover, Pivotal, Bioequivalence Study of 
Dimethyl fumarate 240 mg Gastro-Resistant Hard Capsules (Pharmaceutical Works Polpharma S.A.) 
Study 2150:  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 20/68 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
and Tecfidera® (dimethyl fumarate) 240 mg Gastro-Resistant Hard Capsules (Biogen Manufacturing 
ApS) in Healthy Male and Non-Pregnant Female Volunteers under Fed Conditions. 
Methods 
Duration of treatment: 
•  Study design  
Drug Concentration Measurements 
Blood samples were collected from 24 time points in each study period. 
The study consisted of two study periods. Each study period included a single-dose drug administration 
of either the Test product or the Reference product.  
This was a pivotal, single-dose, randomized, open-label, two-period, two-sequence, two-treatment, 
single-centre, crossover study designed to evaluate the bioequivalence of monomethyl fumarate from 
Dimethyl fumarate 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules and Tecfidera® 240 mg gastro-resistant 
hard capsules administered to healthy non-smoking, male and non-pregnant female subjects under fed 
conditions. Subjects were randomly assigned to one of the two dosing sequences. 
Treatments Administered: 
In each study period, subjects were dosed according to the randomization scheme with one of the 
following treatments: Treatment A (1 × 240 mg Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma gastro-resistant hard 
capsules) or Treatment B (1 × 240 mg Tecfidera® gastro-resistant hard capsules).  
Each subject was scheduled to receive a total of two treatments by the end of the study. The washout 
interval between drug administrations was 3 days. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Healthy volunteers were enrolled and dosed in Period 1 and completed the study in its entirety. The 
data were included in the pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis. 
•  Analytical methods, pharmacokinetic variables and statistical methods 
Table 3.3.2.4. Bioequivalence results of plasma monomethyl fumarate  
Similar to the Study 2149 (see above). 
•  Population(s) studied 
Results 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 21/68 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The final bioequivalence analysis results, based on the revised data to include the revised dilution 
factor (1:1), are included below: 
Table 3.3.2.5. Bioequivalence results of plasma monomethyl fumarate (including dilution factor 1:1) 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 22/68 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
•  Safety data 
The Test/Reference ratio of geometric means and the corresponding 90% confidence intervals for the 
ln-transformed AUCinf, AUCt and Cmax parameters were entirely contained within the acceptance 
range of 80.00% to 125.00%. 
A total of 25 AEs was experienced by the subjects after treatment with the Test product. A total of 35 
AEs was experienced by the subjects after treatment with the Reference product. The safety profiles of 
the Reference and the Test Product were comparable 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
2.4.2.3.  Post marketing experience 
2.4.2.2.  Pharmacodynamics 
application. 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 23/68 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Two separate bioequivalence studies under fasting and fed conditions were provided to demonstrate 
that Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma gastro-resistant hard capsules, 240 mg, is bioequivalent to the 
reference product Tecfidera.  
The point estimates and 90% confidence intervals for the ln-transformed pharmacokinetic variables 
(EMA/CHMP/EWP/280/96 Rev1), the biowaiver criteria are met and the CHMP agreed that the results 
According to the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) and the 
The chosen study population (healthy volunteers) is appropriate. The validation method was performed 
according to the procedure recommended in the guidelines. 
The choice of analyte (monomethyl fumarate) is in line with product-specific bioequivalence guidance 
(EMA/CHMP/421315/2017) and is endorsed.  
Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma gastro-resistant 240 mg hard capsules can therefore be considered 
bioequivalent with Tecfidera gastro-resistant 240 mg hard capsules. 
Generally, the design of the bioequivalence studies is considered acceptable: 
of the bioequivalence studies can be extrapolated to the additional 120 mg strength. 
Guideline on the pharmacokinetic and clinical evaluation of modified release dosage forms 
Cmax and AUC were within the predefined bioequivalence range of 80% - 125% in both studies.  
The safety profiles of the both products were comparable, and no serious adverse events were 
reported.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Based on the bioequivalence studies and in line with the Guideline on the Investigation of 
2.4.4.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
2.5.  Risk Management Plan 
Table SVIII.1: Summary of safety concerns 
2.5.1.  Safety concerns  
medicinal product to Tecfidera. 
reference product Tecfidera. 
Bioequivalence, Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma 240 mg is considered bioequivalent with Tecfidera 240 
Polpharma 120 mg and 240 mg gastro-resistant capsules were thus considered essentially similar to the 
Taken  together,  the  CHMP  concluded  that  the  available  clinical  data  were  adequate  to  support  the 
application for Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma 120 mg and 240 mg gastro-resistant capsules as a generic 
In addition, considering that the criteria for a biowaiver are met, the CHMP agreed that no additional in 
vivo  bioequivalence  study  with  the  remaining  strength  120  mg  was  needed.  Dimethyl  fumarate 
mg. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
Decreases in leukocyte and lymphocyte counts 
Drug-induced liver injury 
Serious and opportunistic infections (other than PML) 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 24/68 
 
 
 
  
 
Summary of safety concerns 
Missing information 
detection are included: 
PML) and malignancies. 
2.5.2.  Pharmacovigilance plan  
2.5.3.  Risk minimisation measures 
No additional pharmacovigilance activities are deemed necessary. 
Specific adverse reaction follow-up questionnaires for risk of progressive Multifocal 
The following routine pharmacovigilance activities beyond adverse reactions reporting and signal 
Leukoencephalopathy (PML), drug-induced liver injury, serious and opportunistic infections (other than 
Malignancies 
Effects on pregnancy outcome 
Interaction with nephrotoxic medications leading to renal toxicity 
Safety profile in patients over the age of 55 years  
Safety profile in patients with renal impairment 
Safety profile in patients with hepatic impairment  
Safety profile in patients with severe active GI disease  
Long term efficacy and safety  
Increased risk of infection in patients concomitantly taking anti-
neoplastic or immunosuppressive therapies 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
including additional specific adverse reaction follow-up questionnaires for the safety concerns Moderate 
Lymphopenia and Severe Lymphopenia (Decreases in leukocyte and lymphocyte counts). The applicant 
agreed to update the RMP via a variation procedure promptly following the approval of the MAA in 
It is however noted that an updated RMP for the reference product was agreed in January 2022, 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 0.3 is acceptable.  
It is agreed that routine risk minimisation measures are considered sufficient. The safety information in 
the Product Information is aligned to the reference product. 
2.6.1.  Pharmacovigilance system 
order to include the additional questionnaires.  
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance  
2.5.4.  Conclusion 
The CHMP considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 25/68 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
2.6.2.  Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
2.7.  Product information 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the 
3.  Benefit-risk balance  
bridging report submitted by the applicant has been found acceptable. 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
summary of the available non-clinical information for the active substance was presented and 
the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published 
basis of a bridging report making reference to Atorvadyina (5mg and 10 mg coated tablets). The 
considered sufficient. From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; 
This application concerns a generic version of dimethyl fumarate gastro-resistant hard capsule. The 
reference product Tecfidera is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting 
multiple sclerosis. No non-clinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
hard capsule. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the parameters AUCinf, 
AUCinf and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of 80 to 125% in 
fumarate Polpharma and were in line with the respective European requirements and the product 
specific guidance in terms of design, analyte (metabolite) and parameters for bioequivalence 
The test formulation of Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsule met the 
assessment. Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sampling time as well as wash-out period were 
fasting and fed conditions. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
bioequivalence study with the  additional 120 mg strength was needed.  Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma 
120 mg and 240 mg gastro-resistant capsules were thus considered essentially similar to the reference 
In  addition,  the  criteria  for  a  biowaiver  are  met  and  the  CHMP  agreed  that  no  additional  in  vivo 
under fasting and fed conditions) were considered adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of Dimethyl 
protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when compared with the Tecfidera 240 mg gastro-resistant 
Two pivotal bioequivalence studies were performed. The studies (single dose, randomised, cross-over, 
adequate. The analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were 
literature was considered sufficient. 
product Tecfidera. 
adequate. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 26/68 
 
 
 
  
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma is favourable in the following indication: 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation, subject to the following 
Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting 
multiple sclerosis (see section 5.1 for important information on the populations for which efficacy has 
been established). 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and 
interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
•  Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
•  Periodic Safety Update Reports  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
reached.  
any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 27/68 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Appendix 
5.1.  CHMP Opinion on the ad hoc assessment relating to the therapeutic 
effect of monoethyl fumarate salts (MEF) within Fumaderm and CHMP ad 
hoc Assessment Report, as adopted on 11 November 2021
Medicinal product no longer authorised
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 28/68 
 
 
 
  
Ad hoc assessment  relating to the  therapeutic effect of monoethyl fumarate 
EMA/CHMP/304446/2022 
salts (MEF) within Fumaderm  
CHMP Assessment Report 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
List of abbreviations .................................................................................. 31 
1. Background information ........................................................................ 32 
4. Recommendations and next steps ......................................................... 66 
5. References ............................................................................................ 67 
3. Submission of additional scientific observations by an interested entity
 .................................................................................................................. 65 
2. Assessment ........................................................................................... 33 
2.1. Introduction....................................................................................................... 33 
2.2. Assessment of the therapeutic contribution of MEF within Fumaderm ........................ 34 
2.2.1. Non-clinical aspects ......................................................................................... 34 
2.2.2. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 45 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 30/68 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
DMF 
Dimethyl fumarate 
Kelch-like  erythroid  cell-derived  protein  with  cap-n-collar  homology-associated 
protein 1 
Fumaric acid 
FA 
FAE 
Gclc 
GSH 
Keap 1 
MEF 
MMF 
NQO1 
Nrf2 
Osgin 1 
SUDH 
Srxn1 
Glutathione 
Sulfiredoxin 1 
Fumaric acid ester 
Monoethyl fumarate 
Monomethyl fumarate 
Succinate dehydrogenase 
NADPH dehydrogenase quinone 1 
Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 
Glutamate-cysteine ligase catalytic subunit 
Oxidative stress-induced growth inhibitor 1 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 31/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information 
On 9 August 1994, the German National Competent Authority (the Bundesinstitut für Arzneimittel und 
substance, since they do not contain the same therapeutic moiety.  
throughout the assessment report to refer indistinctively to both marketing authorisations. 
Tecfidera is authorised for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis. 
marketing authorisation (“GMA”) as the previously authorised combination medicinal product Fumaderm. 
Fumaderm was authorised for the treatment of psoriasis in two strengths: (i) Fumaderm initial contains 
Recital 3 of the Commission decision for Tecfidera stated that Tecfidera is not covered by the same global 
On 27 June 2018, Pharmaceutical Works Polpharma (“Polpharma”) submitted a MAA for a generic version 
authorisations for Fumaderm were renewed. The marketing authorisations (“MA”) are held by the Biogen 
group of companies.3 
On 30 January 2014, the European Commission granted a marketing authorisation (“MA”) to the Biogen 
group  of  companies  for  the  medicinal  product  Tecfidera  (comprised  of  the  active  substance  DMF). 4 
This  was  based  on  the  conclusion  (reached  during  the  assessment  of  the  marketing  authorisation 
application  (“MAA”)  for  Tecfidera)  that  MEF  and  DMF  are  both  active  and  are  not  the  same  active 
Medizinprodukte;  “BfArM”)  granted  two  marketing  authorisations  for  two  strengths  of  a  combination 
medicinal product known as Fumaderm (comprised of the active substances monoethyl fumarate salts 
(“MEF”) and dimethyl fumarate (“DMF”)), for the treatment of psoriasis. On 13 June 2013, the marketing 
30  mg  of  DMF,  67  mg  of  calcium  MEF  salt,  5  mg  of  magnesium  MEF  salt  and  3  mg  of  zinc  MEF  salt 
(“Fumaderm initial”); and (ii) Fumaderm contains 120 mg of DMF, 87 mg of calcium MEF salt, 5 mg of 
magnesium  MEF  salt  and  3  mg  of  zinc  MEF  salt  (“Fumaderm”).  The  term  “Fumaderm”  will  be  used 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
data protection. On 9 October 2018, Polpharma initiated court proceedings by submitting an application 
for annulment against EMA’s decision to not validate its MAA. Polpharma also submitted a plea of illegality 
against Recital 3 of the Commission decision for Tecfidera that concluded that Tecfidera is entitled to a 
separate GMA to that of Fumaderm.5 
covered by a different  GMA to  that  of  Fumaderm, without verifying or requesting  the  CHMP  to verify 
whether and, if necessary, how the BfArM had assessed the role of MEF within Fumaderm, or without 
requesting the CHMP to verify the role played by MEF within Fumaderm.7 
an application for annulment against EMA’s decision to not validate its application, as well as a plea of 
illegality against Recital 3 of the Commission decision for Tecfidera.6 
of Tecfidera pursuant to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. By its decision of 30 July 2018, the EMA 
refused  to  validate  Polpharma’s  application  on  the basis  that  Tecfidera  was  still  subject  to  regulatory 
By its Judgment of 5 May 2021, the General Court annulled EMA’s decision to not validate Polpharma’s 
MAA and concluded that the plea of illegality against the Commission decision for  Tecfidera should be 
pursuant to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. By its decision of 1 October 2020, EMA refused to 
validate Mylan’s application. On 28 October 2020, Mylan commenced court proceedings by submitting 
upheld.  The General Court held that  the Commission  was not  entitled  to conclude  that Tecfidera was 
On 23 July 2020, Mylan Ireland Limited (“Mylan”) submitted a MAA for a generic version of Tecfidera 
3         For the purpose of the present report, Biogen Netherlands N.V and Biogen GmbH may be referred to as the Biogen 
4       
5  
6  
7  
group of companies.  
In  this  respect,  see:  Commission  Implementing  Decision  of  30.01.2014  granting  marketing  authorisation  under 
Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council for "Tecfidera - Dimethyl fumarate", a 
medicinal product for human use”. 
In this respect, see: Case T-611/18, Pharmaceutical Works Polpharma v EMA. 
In this respect, see: Case T-703/20, Mylan Ireland v EMA.  
In this respect, see: paragraph 282 of the Judgment in Case T-611/18. 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 32/68 
 
 
 
 
On 2 June 2021, Biogen submitted a type II variation application for the medicinal product Tecfidera, 
seeking at the same time the extension of the marketing protection of Tecfidera by one year (further to 
Article 14(11) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004). 
Court in Case T-611/18.  
2.1.  Introduction 
2.  Assessment 
subparagraph, of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
clinically relevant therapeutic contribution within Fumaderm.  
In that connection, it may be pointed out that in the situation whereby the General Court annuls an act 
In light of the above, the objective of this assessment is to support the determination as regards whether 
Tecfidera  is  covered  by  the  same  GMA  as  Fumaderm  within  the  meaning  of  Article  6(1),  second 
of an institution or body, it is required, in accordance with Article 266 of the Treaty on the Functioning 
of the European Union, to take measures necessary to comply with that judgment. The present ad hoc 
assessment is considered to conform to that requirement in view of the particular findings of the General 
For the purpose of the implementation of the Judgment of the General Court of 5 May 2021 in Case T-
611/18,  Pharmaceutical  Works  Polpharma  v  EMA,  and  in  connection  to  the  above-mentioned  three 
pending applications before the CHMP which concern DMF (two MAAs for a generic version of Tecfidera; 
and a type II variation for Tecfidera), the CHMP is being asked to examine whether MEF exerts a 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Pharmaceutical Works Polpharma  
BfArM) 
As indicated above, two strengths of Fumaderm were granted marketing authorisations as combination 
medicinal products on 9 August 1994. Those marketing authorisations came into force in Germany on 
19 August 1994.  
DMF and MEF are esters of fumaric acid. DMF is pre-systemically hydrolysed by ubiquitous esterases to 
its major active metabolite monomethyl fumarate (MMF), which is further degraded to fumaric acid (FA). 
Likewise, MEF is metabolized by esterases to FA. 
This AR is based on the original publications of the studies mentioned below.  This AR has taken account 
of the European Public Assessment Reports (“EPARs”) for Tecfidera and Skilarence and the responses to 
The  aim  of  this  assessment  report  (“AR”)  is  to  examine  whether  MEF  exerts  a  clinically  relevant 
-  German  National  Competent  Authority  (the  Bundesinstitut  für  Arzneimittel  und  Medizinprodukte; 
In addition, the assessment has taken account of an unsolicited submission from another company.  
-  Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
-  Mylan Ireland Limited 
the LoQ, sent to the EMA by the following interested entities: 
therapeutic contribution within Fumaderm.  
- 
Two types of Fumaderm have been licensed in Germany, which serve for titration during the initial three 
weeks  of  treatment  (“Fumaderm  initial  magensaftresistente  Tabletten  für  Erwachsene”,  German  MA 
number  27561.00.00)  and  in  the  subsequent  weeks  including  maintenance  of  therapy  (“Fumaderm 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 33/68 
 
 
 
 
magensaftresistente Tabletten für Erwachsene”, German MA number 27561.01.00; hereafter referred to 
as Fumaderm). 
The following table compares the composition of the two authorised Fumaderm products: 
To  support  the  Fumaderm  MA,  a  randomised,  multi-center,  double-blind  study  was  submitted 
Fumaderm initial (30 mg) is the starting dose, which is increased week by week to improve tolerability, 
dose for most patients is 240-480 mg/day. Current German guidelines recommend a gradual increase 
Currently, two medicinal products containing DMF as gastro-resistant tablets are approved for psoriasis: 
particularly to decrease gastrointestinal side-effects, and Fumaderm (120 mg) is the higher-dosed tablet 
which is applied starting from week 4. The maximum dose of Fumaderm is 720 mg/day. The appropriate 
Skilarence (EMEA/H/C/2157), MA holder Almirall S.A., was approved on 21th April 2017 in a centralised 
procedure via Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC - full mixed application. The applicant indicated that 
DMF 
comparing Fumaderm to placebo (Altmeyer et al., 1994). 
Table 1: Composition of DMF and MEF in the two German Fumaderm medicinal products 
Fumaderm, a fixed combination of DMF + MEF salts, and Skilarence, which contains only DMF.  
in fumaric acid ester (FAE) dosage to determine optimal efficacy and tolerability for each patient. 
Active substances 
MEF, calcium salt 
MEF, magnesium salt 
MEF, zinc salt 
3 mg 
5 mg 
3 mg 
5 mg 
30 mg 
87 mg 
67 mg 
120 mg 
Fumaderm 
Fumaderm initial 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
phase III study comparing Skilarence to Fumaderm and placebo had been submitted. 
study of the 2 phase III studies (Study 109MS303) were provided (Tecfidera, EPAR). 
Pharmacodynamic activities of fumaric acid esters in relation to psoriasis 
DMF was considered to be a known active substance. 
2.2.1.  Non-clinical aspects 
The clinical development programme consisted of one phase II placebo controlled study (Study C1900) 
and  two  phase  III  studies,  one  placebo  controlled  (Study  109MS301)  and  one  placebo  and  active 
Tecfidera, 120 mg and 240 mg, gastro-resistant hard capsules, which contains only the active substance 
DMF, has been approved for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis. 
2.2.  Assessment of the therapeutic contribution of MEF within Fumaderm  
The legal basis for this MAA referred to Article 8(3) of Directive No 2001/83/EC (full mixed application). 
The only active substance in Skilarence is DMF (30 mg and 120 mg) and the DMF content is exactly the 
same as in Fumaderm initial and Fumaderm respectively. As part of the MAA for Skilarence, a pivotal 
controlled - glatiramer acetate (Study 109MS302). In addition interim data from an ongoing extension 
At the time of assessment of the MAA of Fumaderm in Germany, the mechanism of action of its DMF and 
MEF  active  substances  was  largely  unknown  considering  also  that  relevant  animal  models  reflecting 
human psoriasis were not available. For this reason, presumptive pharmacodynamic effects of these FAE 
were  solely  based  on  clinical  experience  in  psoriasis  patients  and  experimental  findings  gained  in 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 34/68 
 
 
 
 
 
pertinent cell culture systems in vitro, which were subsequently complemented by published scientific 
reports as further delineated below. 
Early  publications  had  described  the  concentration-dependent  inhibition  of  nucleic  acid  synthesis  at 
penetration across cellular membranes (Nieboer et al., 1989). 
dehydrogenase activity in the different fibroblast preparations. 
uninvolved psoriatic skin is more meaningful as depicted in Table 2. 
(SUDH) in the citric acid cycle, the impact of the various FAEs was determined by means of succinate 
various FAE on absolute SUDH activity in fibroblasts from the three sources cannot be directly compared. 
Fumaderm  compared  the  activities  of  DMF  and  the  calcium,  magnesium  and  zinc  salts  of  MEF  on 
8 cultures  of  5 different  donors,  respectively).  When  fibroblast  preparations  from  uninvolved  and 
lower at ≥0.3mEq./l for MMF and MEFs. In contrast, FA was rather inactive, which coincides with its poor 
Instead,  the  comparison  of  relative  magnitudes  of  the  stimulatory/inhibitory  effects  in  healthy  and 
≥10 µg/ml MEF in cultures of activated lymphocytes from healthy human subjects (Petres et al., 1975; 
Hagedorn  et al.,  1975).  Based  on  these  findings,  another  in vitro  screen  submitted  during  MAA  of 
involved skin from the same psoriasis patient were analysed, the SUDH activity was approximately 2.8- 
or 3.4-fold lower in the involved compared to uninvolved skin (n=2). Consequently, the influence of the 
Compared to fibroblasts from healthy subjects, the basal SUDH activity was about 2- to 6-fold higher in 
uninvolved psoriatic fibroblasts, which additionally showed pronounced inter-individual variability (n=6-
fibroblasts prepared from healthy as well as from uninvolved and involved psoriatic human skin (Sarheim 
et al.,  1990).  As  fumarate  is  endogenously  synthesized  from  succinate  by  succinate  dehydrogenase 
In fibroblasts derived from healthy skin, SUDH activity was inhibited at low concentrations of FAE, but a 
concentration-dependent stimulation was noted at ≥0.03 mEq./l of DMF (Table 2). SUDH activation was 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
skin than the MEF salts, but the magnitude  of the activation was more pronounced (Table 2). Among 
MEF  salts,  calcium-MEF  induced higher  SUDH  activity  compared  to  the  zinc  and  magnesium  salts.  Of 
note,  the  strongest  SUDH  stimulation  was  already  evident  at  0.03 mEq./l  of  all  FAE,  but  declined  at 
higher concentrations, which suggests a negative feedback effect of the accumulating fumarate leading 
In fibroblasts from uninvolved psoriatic skin, the stimulation of SUDH generally prevailed for  all FAEs 
(Table 2). As in healthy skin, DMF and MMF revealed higher SUDH stimulation in uninvolved psoriatic 
to the inhibition of cellular proliferation due to blockade of the citric acid cycle. 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 35/68 
 
 
 
Table 2:  Effects  of  various  FAE  on  relative  SUDH  activity  in  fibroblasts  from  healthy  or 
uninvolved psoriatic skin 
Concentration [mEq./l] 
FAE 
The comparison of SUDH stimulation in fibroblasts from uninvolved and involved psoriatic skin of the 
+ = % stimulation; - = % inhibition; FA = fumaric acid; FAE = fumaric acid ester; DMF = dimethyl fumarate; MEF = 
monoethyl  fumarate;  MMF =  monomethyl  fumarate;  n=6-8 cultures  of  5 different  donors  each;  adapted  from  the 
study of Sarheim BS et al., 1990. 
+956 
+306 
+128 
+198 
+135 
Fibroblasts from healthy skin 
Fibroblasts from uninvolved psoriatic skin 
DMF 
MMF 
Ca-MEF 
Zn-MEF 
Mg-MEF 
DMF 
MMF 
Ca-MEF 
Zn-MEF 
Mg-MEF 
FA 
0.0003 
0.003 
0.03 
0.15 
0.3 
0.75 
1.5 
0 
-5 
-6 
-9 
-5 
-6 
-6 
-1 
+6 
+9 
+6 
+1 
+5 
+1 
+3 
+8 
+1 
+2 
-51 
-20 
-26 
-15 
-32 
-15 
-45 
-56 
-42 
-30 
-41 
-41 
-28 
-14 
-19 
-37 
-21 
-37 
-33 
-13 
-37 
-19 
-23 
-13 
-41 
+21 
+53 
+38 
+40 
+48 
+45 
+37 
+59 
+30 
+10 
+39 
+26 
+15 
+80 
+68 
+74 
+127 
+147 
+111 
+312 
+102 
+130 
+295 
+160 
+117 
+112 
+107 
+838 
+105 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Concentration [mEq./l] 
involved psoriatic skin 
Psoriatic 
skin 
Uninvolved  +43 
Uninvolved  +70 
Involved 
Involved 
0.0003 
0.003 
+194 
+179 
+128 
+666 
+115 
+326 
+329 
+640 
+463 
0.03 
0.75 
0.15 
+16 
+47 
+69 
+84 
+76 
0.3 
-21 
-14 
-13 
-10 
-20 
-11 
+4 
-1 
-2 
FAE 
DMF 
Ca-MEF 
uninvolved skin, whereas the magnitude of the stimulation was comparable at higher levels. In 
Table 3). DMF significantly activated SUDH function at low concentrations of ≥0.03 mEq./l in 
same patient was limited to the strongest activators, i.e. DMF and Ca-MEF ( 
with higher SUDH activity in psoriasis patients than in healthy subjects. 
clear concentration-dependent effect in uninvolved psoriatic skin ( 
contrast, Ca-MEF did not induce relevant SUDH activation in fibroblasts of involved compared to the 
+ =  %  stimulation;  - =  %  inhibition;  FAE =  fumaric  acid  ester;  DMF =  dimethyl  fumarate;  MEF =  monoethyl 
fumarate; n=2 psoriasis patients; adapted from the study of Sarheim BS et al., 1990. 
Table 3). Thus, DMF and MEF apparently exert different grades of SUDH stimulation in skin fibroblasts 
Table 3:  Effects  of  DMF  and  Ca-MEF  on  SUDH  activity  in  fibroblasts  from  uninvolved  and 
1.5 
+700 
+958 
+1369 
In  line  with  these  findings,  DMF  and  the  different  MEF  salts  but  not  fumaric  acid  interfered  with 
proliferation of immortal HaCaT keratinocytes as determined by inhibition of DNA and protein synthesis 
(Sebök  et al.,  1994).  DMF  was  the  most  potent  anti-proliferative  agent  at  all  test  concentrations 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 36/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
≥0.4 µM,  while  Ca-MEF,  Zn-MEF  and  Mg-MEF  were  less  active  at  ≥1.3 µM,  ≥35 µM  and  ≥35 µM, 
respectively. Accordingly, IC50 values for blockade of DNA and protein synthesis of 2.3 and 2.5 µM DMF, 
133 µM and 145 µM Zn-MEF, 215 and 230 µM Ca-MEF, 275 µM and 270 µM Mg-MEF were derived. All 
FAE exerted significant cytotoxicity as measured by release of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) of ≥12 µM 
inhibit ICAM-1 and HLA-DR expression. 
DMF and Ca-MEF or ≥35 µM Zn-MEF or Mg-MEF each. 
Subsequently, the same group reported that DMF significantly suppressed the expression of Intercellular 
potency  was  MMF  >DMF  >MEF.  In  gross  concordance  with  the  aforementioned  results  of  Sebök  and 
calcium-binding  fluorescent  dye  Fura-2  (Thio  et al.,  1994).  Maximum  calcium  elevations  were 
determined after 10 sec, were greater in normal compared to transformed keratinocytes and returned 
to basal levels within 90 to 120 sec. These calcium elevations were not blocked by pre-incubation with 
colleagues (1994), higher concentrations of ≥10 µM DMF, ≥100 µM MMF or MEF, but not fumaric acid, 
were found to inhibit the proliferation of both types of keratinocytes. Contrary to Sebök  et al. (1994), 
Ca-, Zn- or Mg-MEF salts were required for ICAM-1 and HLA-DR down-regulation in HaCaT keratinocytes, 
while FA was ineffective. In normal human keratinocytes, even DMF concentrations up to 35 µM did not 
Another in vitro study indicated that DMF, MMF and MEF (not as salt with metal cation) induced a rapid 
but  transient  increase  of  calcium  in  cultures  of  normal  human  keratinocytes  or  simian  virus 40-
transformed  immortal  keratinocytes  (SVK-14  cells)  as  measured  spectrophotometrically  with  the 
the  bivalent  cation  chelator  ethylenglycol-bis(aminoethylether)-N,N,N’,N’-tetraacetic  acid  (EGTA) 
suggesting calcium release from intracellular stores. The calcium increase was concentration-dependent 
and reached its maximum at 0.2 mM MMF, 0.4 mM DMF and 0.2 mM MEF. Among the three FAE, the 
Adhesion  Molecule 1  (ICAM-1)  at  ≥4 µM  and  of  the  Human  Leukocyte  Antigen-DR  (HLA-DR)  on 
hyperproliferative HaCaT keratinocytes at ≥1.3 µM, i.e. two markers that are thought to induce leukocyte 
accumulation within psoriatic plaques (Sebök et al., 1998). In contrast, higher concentrations ≥106 µM 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
and stress-associated genes by binding to the ARE sequence within their promoter regions (e.g. NADPH 
dehydrogenase quinone 1 (NQO1), glutathione reductase and aldo-keto reductase family 1 member B8 
(Akr1b8)). This protection against oxidative stress was evident in astrocytes by increased cellular redox 
and mitochondrial membrane potentials, elevated glutathione and ATP levels and resistance against H2O2 
(Keap 1), which leads to proteosomal degradation of Nrf2 in the cytoplasm. DMF and its primary active 
metabolite  mono-methyl  fumarate  (MMF)  both  directly  alkylate  Keap 1,  thereby  releasing  Nrf 2  from 
“Nuclear  factor  erythroid 2-related  factor 2”  (Nrf2)  in  primary  cells  of  mice,  rats  and  humans.  Nrf2 
regulates cellular antioxidant defence mechanisms. Under normal conditions, Nrf2 is repressed due to 
its interaction with “Kelch-like erythroid cell-derived protein with CNC homology-associated protein 1” 
In vivo, tissue-dependent induction of Nrf2 target genes by DMF was shown in mice (NQO1 in lymphoid 
Keap 1 repression. Nrf 2 then translocates into the nucleus, where it activates expression of antioxidant 
In the dossier for the MAA of Tecfidera, DMF was shown to activate the ubiquitous transcription factor 
however, no direct cytotoxicity was observed by means of LDH increase at concentrations up to 0.2 mM 
Thus, DMF was clearly more potent than the MEF salts to inhibit the proliferation of keratinocytes. 
Pharmacodynamic activity of MEF compared to DMF and MMF 
DMF and 0.8 mM MMF or MEF. 
treatment. 
organs  and  Akr1b8  in  gastrointestinal  tissues).  The  dependency  of  oxidative  protection  on  Nrf2  was 
confirmed  by  silencing  of  Nrf2  transcription  with  specific  siRNA  and  in vivo  by  the  lack  of  a 
pharmacodynamic  response  in  Nrf2-/-  knockout  mice.  Furthermore,  DMF  dose-dependently  improved 
disease symptoms (demyelination and cell degeneration) and functional abilities in the EAE model of MS 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 37/68 
 
 
 
 
in vitro. 
salts in Fumaderm. 
anti-inflammatory activities of DMF remains to be completely unravelled. 
Overall, non-clinical results to corroborate a pharmacological activity of MEF indicate the following: 
much higher based on the site of absorption. Consequently, higher MEF concentrations were also tested 
Thus,  the  apparent  contribution  of  Nrf2-dependent  and  independent  transcriptional  regulation  to  the 
In all non-clinical investigations, the ratio of the calcium, magnesium, and zinc salts of MEF was 87:5:3 
Ca-MEF, Mg-MEF, Zn-MEF, respectively, based on molecular weight. This reflects the ratio of these MEF 
In investigations provided under the MAA of Tecfidera, MEF salts were tested in the range of 0 – 12 µg/ml, 
which encompasses its known peak plasma concentrations in humans. Of note, the median Cmax of MEF 
in  psoriasis  patients  receiving  two tablets  of  Fumaderm  was  5.2 µM,  which  equates  to  approximately 
0.75 µg/ml (Rostami-Yazdi et al., 2010). However, plasma concentrations may not accurately reflect the 
exposure to MEF in certain tissues and locally in the intestinal mucosa, which would be expected to be 
in rats. In addition, DMF significantly diminished excitotoxic lesions and improved neuronal survival as 
well as functional outcome evoked by the mitochondrial toxicant malonate in rats. 
Moreover,  DMF  and  MMF  demonstrated  anti-inflammatory  activity  by 
the  suppression  of 
lipopolysaccharide-mediated induction of inflammatory cytokines in vitro (TNF, IL1, CXCL10, CCL4). 
This anti-inflammatory effect relied on Nrf2 at low levels of DMF or MMF, but became independent at 
high concentrations, which was apparent in macrophages prepared from WT and Nrf2-/- mice. DMF also 
reduced  pro-inflammatory  cytokines  in  a  collagen-induced  arthritis  model  in  rats  and  interfered  with 
activation of astrocytes, microglia and macrophages as well as T-cell infiltration in an EAE model in rats. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
as analysed by Western blotting, whereas FA was ineffective (Figure 2). 
Nrf2 in COS-1 cells in vitro. 
COS-1 cells were treated with 9 µg/ml of individual calcium, magnesium or zinc salts of MEF, with a mixture of MEF 
salts, the free acid form of MEF, DMF, MMF, FA or the vehicle control DMSO (boxed in red) to illustrate the basal Nrf2 
level. Cells were harvested after 24 h and extracts analysed by Western blot with antibodies against Nrf2 or actin 
(loading  control).  Densitometry  of  Western blot signals  reveals  an  approximate 5-fold  increase  in  Nrf2  in  samples 
treated with FAE compared to the vehicle control. 
1.)  The individual calcium, magnesium and zinc salts of MEF or a mixture of the three MEF salts induce 
The individual MEF salts, the free acid of MEF, DMF and MMF similarly increase Nrf2 concentrations 
Figure 2: MEF salts increase Nrf2 protein in Cos-1 cells 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 38/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.)  The  mixture  of  calcium,  magnesium  and  zinc  salts  of  MEF  covalently  modifies  Keap1  at  Cys151 
in vitro. 
Following incubation of transfected HEK293 cells with a mixture of the calcium, magnesium and zinc 
constitutive Keap 1 repression. 
Figure 3: The mixture of MEF salts modifies Keap 1 at Cys151 
salts  of  MEF,  the  modification  of  Keap 1  was  analysed  by  liquid  chromatography  and  mass 
spectrometry  (Figure 3).  The  same  modification  of  Keap 1  at  Cys151  had  been  previously 
demonstrated  for  DMF  and  MMF.  As  known  for  DMF,  MEF  is,  hence,  able  to  release  Nrf2  from 
  Medicinal product no longer authorised
HEK293 cells were transfected with Keap1 and subsequently treated with either DMSO (control) or 3 or 6 µg/ml of 
calcium,  magnesium  and  zinc  salts  of  MEF.  Keap1was  immunopurified,  fractioned  by  gel  electrophoresis  and  then 
excised from the gel. The gel slice was reduced by DTT, alkylated by iodoacetamide, digested with trypsin, and then 
deglycosylated with PNGaseF. Resultant peptide pools were separated on a Dionex C18 column and analysed on a 
Thermo Fisher LTQ FT Ultra Hybrid mass spectrometer. SpectrumMill software was used to identify Keap1 peptides 
and  cysteine  modifications.  The  percentage  of  peptides  containing  a  modification  on  Cys151  corresponding  to  the 
molecular weight of MEF was determined and is graphed on the Y-axis. Box-whisker plots demonstrate the means, 
quartiles, and max-min of quadruplicate determinations from two separate studies. 
3.)  The mixture of calcium, magnesium, and zinc salts of MEF concentration-dependently induces Nrf2-
responses suggest that additional regulatory processes also govern expression or stability of these 
The transcriptional profiles obtained for the mixture of MEF salts differed for the individual genes: 
at a concentration  of  >3 µg/ml, the thioredoxin  reductase 1  (Trxnd 1)  response  plateaued,  while 
the slope (degree of relative increase) of NADPH dehydrogenase quinone 1 (NQO1) and sulfiredoxin 
(Gclc)  exhibited  a  linear  increase  across  the  entire  concentration  range.  These  differential  gene 
transcripts. Moreover, the pharmacological activity of the MEF salts appears to reside within the FAE 
1 (Srxn1) responses decreased (Figure 4). In contrast, responses for haeme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), 
oxidative stress-induced growth inhibitor 1 (Osgin 1) and glutamate-cysteine ligase catalytic subunit 
related gene expression in human astrocytes in vitro. 
as FA itself did not produce a response. 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 39/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4: The mixture of MEF salts induces Nrf2-dependent gene expression 
  Medicinal product no longer authorised
Human  astrocytes  were  treated  with  a  mixture  of  calcium,  magnesium  and  zinc  salts  of  MEF  or  fumaric  acid. 
Transcriptional changes were evaluated by RT-PCR 24 h after treatment. (A) Nqo1, (B) HO-1, (C) Osgin 1, (D) Trxnd1, 
(E) (Gclc), (F) sulfiredoxin 1 (Srxn1). Responses have been normalised as a fold change relative to DMSO controls 
for  each  gene  and  probe  set.  Graph  points  represent  averages  of  triplicate  determinations;  error  bars  represent 
standard deviations. Dotted line represents the basal level of transcription for each gene as assessed in vehicle treated 
cells, normalised to “1”. 
4.)  The mixture of calcium, magnesium, and zinc salts of MEF modulated tissue-specific gene expression 
Transcriptional profiling revealed that the MEF salts significantly modified transcript levels in blood 
and all examined tissues of mice (brain, inguinal lymph node (ILN), mesenteric lymph node (MLN), 
kidney,  jejunum  and  spleen)  with  the  most  prominent  response  in  the  kidney  (Figure 5).  MEF 
exposure in plasma and tissues was verified in a separate cohorts of animals. 
in vivo. 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 40/68 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5: The mixture of MEF salts significantly modulates tissue-specific transcription 
Most  recently,  gene  expression  profiles  were  reported  following  repeated  oral  administration  of 
100 mg/kg DMF, a total dose of 79 mg/kg of the calcium, magnesium and zinc salt mixture of MEF or 
the DMF/MEF combination for 10 days in mice (Wipke et al., 2021). The analyses were performed 12 h 
C57Bl/6 mice received single or repeated oral doses of 79.2 mg/kg MEF salts for 10 days (equivalent to 100 mg/kg 
DMF).  Fumaric  acid  was  not  tested  due  to  its  lack  of  activity  in  previous  investigations  in vitro  (see  above). 
Transcriptional responses were evaluated by Affymetrix microarrays at 6 and 12 h after a single dose, and 12 h after 
the last dose following 10 consecutive days of once daily dosing (multiple dosing = MD). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
after  the  final  dose  and  used  Affymetrix  microarray  analyses  that  included  tissues  with  preferential 
distribution of MMF and MEF (Figure 7). The expression of 487 genes was specifically altered in response 
to  DMF  treatment,  which  comprise  the  known  Nrf2-mediated  oxidative  stress  response,  glutathione 
(GSH)-mediated  detoxification  and  others  (Figure 6A).  These  DMF-induced  changes  were  particularly 
evident in mesenteric and inguinal lymph nodes, spleen and whole blood. For MEF, 224 gene expression 
changes  were  specifically  noted  that  predominated  in  kidney  and  mesenteric  lymph  node.  The  MMF 
Following dosing of the DMF/MEF combination, 132 genes demonstrated a significant interaction effect 
between DMF and MEF, which was most pronounced in immunological tissues, like whole blood, spleen, 
altered transcripts corresponded to apoptosis, death receptor and autophagy-related pathways. 
mesenteric and inguinal lymph node (Figure 6B). 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 41/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6: Differential and overlapping gene expression profiles after administration of DMF, 
MEF salts or the DMF/MEF combination in mice 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Gene  expression  profiles  were  determined  by  Affymetrix  microarrays  from  tissues  with  preferential  distribution  of 
MMF and MEF at 12 h after the final repeated oral dose of either 100 mg/kg DMF, a total dose of 79 mg/kg of the 
calcium, magnesium and zinc salt mixture of MEF (ratio of 91.5 % : 5.2 % : 3.2 %) or the DMF/MEF combination for 
10  days  in  mice.  (A)  Hierarchical  clustering  reveals  487 DMF-specific  and  the  224 MEF-specific  probe  sets  after 
normalization (n = 7 biological sample sets each). DMF specificity is most pronounced in MLN, ILN, spleen, and whole 
blood, whereas MEF specificity is most evident in the kidney and MLN. (B) Hierarchical clustering shows 132 interaction 
probe  sets, which  is  most pronounced  in  immunologic  tissues:  whole blood, MLN,  ILN, and  spleen.  ILN =  inguinal 
lymph node; MLN = mesenteric lymph node; WBC = white blood cell; (from Wipke et al., 2021). 
A sparse set of non-clinical data is provided for a comparison of the pharmacological effect of MEF in 
Evaluation comment  
contrast to either DMF or fixed combination of MEF/DMF. Some of the comparative studies shows that in 
vitro the individual MEF salts, the free acid of MEF, DMF and MMF similarly increase Nrf2 concentrations 
as  analysed  by  Western  blotting,  whereas  FA  was  ineffective.  Perhaps,  the  most  relevant  study  for 
purpose of the comparison between DMF, MEF and their combination was recently published (Wipke et 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 42/68 
 
 
 
 
 
lymph node 
al., 2021). Gene expression profiles were reported following repeated oral administration of 100 mg/kg 
DMF, a total dose of 79 mg/kg of the calcium, magnesium and zinc salt mixture of MEF or the DMF/MEF 
combination for 10 days in mice. The expression of 487 genes was specifically altered in response to 
DMF treatment, which comprise the known Nrf2-mediated oxidative stress response, glutathione (GSH)-
repression.   
Pharmacokinetic properties of DMF and MEF 
cannot be concluded due to the limitations of the conducted non-clinical studies.  
In pharmacokinetic (PK) investigations conducted in rats and dogs submitted during the MA of Tecfidera, 
indication of psoriasis. While a straightforward additive or synergistic effect of MEF in the combination 
mediated detoxification and others. These DMF-induced changes were particularly evident in mesenteric 
Exploratory  studies  provided  for  MEF  can  be  considered  as  supportive  for  proof  of  concept  in  the 
In addition to this data, the mixture of calcium, magnesium and zinc salts of MEF covalently modifies 
corresponded  to  apoptosis,  death  receptor  and  autophagy-related  pathways.  Following  dosing  of  the 
DMF/MEF combination, 132 genes demonstrated a significant interaction effect between DMF and MEF, 
which was most pronounced in immunological tissues, like whole blood, spleen, mesenteric and inguinal 
and  inguinal  lymph  nodes,  spleen  and  whole  blood.  For  MEF,  224  gene  expression  changes  were 
specifically noted that predominated in kidney and mesenteric lymph node. The MMF altered transcripts 
Keap1 at Cys151 in vitro. The same modification of Keap 1 at Cys151 had been previously demonstrated 
for  DMF  and  MMF.  As  known  for  DMF,  MEF  is,  hence,  able  to  release  Nrf2  from  constitutive  Keap  1 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
further metabolised to fumaric acid, citric acid and glucose indicating initial DMF metabolism by esterases 
followed by the citric acid cycle. Accordingly, DMF was found to be predominantly eliminated as exhaled 
CO2 (~60-65 %). About 21 % of the administered DMF dose was determined in urine, with cysteine and 
N-acetyl  cysteine  conjugates  of  mono-  and  dimethyl  succinate  as  major  urinary  metabolites.  MMF 
DMF or as total dose 79 mg/kg of the mixture of calcium, magnesium and zinc salts of MEF to mice and 
rats (Wipke et al., 2021). MMF widely distributed in both species and reached higher concentrations in 
brain  and  spleen  than  MEF  (Figure 7).  In  contrast,  MEF  preferentially  distributed  into  the  kidney. 
DMF was rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and converted pre-systemically to its active 
metabolite MMF. Quick absorption was also confirmed for MEF in these species. MMF was found to be 
MEF. Analyses using liver microsomes or hepatocytes from rats and humans further confirmed that MEF 
does not convert to either DMF or MMF, and DMF or MMF are not transformed into MEF. In agreement 
represented  only  up  to  1.7 %  of  urinary  metabolites,  whereas  the  amount  of  unchanged  DMF  was 
In addition, metabolism data obtained in rat and human hepatocyte suspensions indicated formation of 
Accordingly, the brain to plasma ratio is higher for MMF compared to MEF, while MEF  demonstrates a 
glutathione (GSH) conjugates of DMF and MMF and a low amount of other minor metabolites excluding 
conversely, no DMF or MMF was identified in mice after oral administration of MEF. Thus, DMF and MEF 
with this finding, no MEF was detected in plasma or tissues of mice after oral administration of DMF, and, 
A recent publication reports the distribution of MMF and MEF after oral administration of either 100 mg/kg 
negligible (< 0.2 %). The contribution of the faecal route to the elimination of DMF was small (≤ 4.4 %). 
are not metabolites of each other in vivo. 
higher kidney to plasma ratio than MMF. These data are in line with the higher excretion of intact MEF 
compared to MMF in rats (9-fold) and in Cynomolgus monkeys (26-fold; Wipke et al., 2021). 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 43/68 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7: Distribution of MMF compared to MEF in mice and rats 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
After single oral administration of 100 mg/kg DMF or 79 mg/kg MEF salts in 0.8 % hydroxypropyl methylcellulose to 
C57Bl/6 mice (A, C) or Sprague-Dawley rats (B, D), plasma and tissue levels (brain, spleen, jejunum, kidney, and 
liver) of MMF  and MEF  were determined  30 min  post  dose.  The relative  tissue  penetration  in  relation  to  plasma  is 
given above each bar. Brain or kidney to plasma ratios of MMF and MEF in mice and rats highlight the significantly 
higher MMF brain exposure vs. MEF (E), whereas MEF reaches significantly higher levels in kidney than MMF (from 
Wipke et al., 2021). 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 44/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on non-clinical aspects  
2.2.2.  Clinical aspects 
Pharmacological properties of DMF and the MEF salts 
DMF and MEF are different esters of fumaric acid, which itself is inactive. 
than MEF. In contrast, MEF is preferentially distributed into the kidney (Wipke et al., 2021).  
combination cannot be concluded due to the limitations of the conducted non-clinical studies.  
the  indication  of  psoriasis.  Nevertheless  a  straightforward  additive  or  synergistic  effect  of  MEF  in  the 
The submitted pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic non-clinical data shows that DMF and MEF are 
two active moieties with pharmacological modes of action that are putatively different, but applicable for 
Evaluation comment  
Overall, the provided in vitro and in vivo PK non-clinical data shows that DMF and MEF are two different 
(to some extent) active moieties which share a similar metabolic pathway leading to the formation of 
fumaric acid (an inactive moiety). DMF and MEF are not metabolites of each other in vivo. In addition, 
in  vitro  data  using  liver  microsomes  or  hepatocytes  from  rats  and  humans  shows  that  MEF  does  not 
convert to either DMF or MMF, and DMF or MMF are not transformed into MEF. In the in vivo (mice and 
rats) study, MMF the active metabolite of DMF reached higher concentrations in the brain and spleen 
•  Clinical pharmacology 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
After oral administration, DMF is not detected in plasma because it is rapidly hydrolysed by esterases to 
its  active  metabolite  MMF  and/or  interacts  with  GSH  to  form  conjugates  (Skilarence,  EPAR).  MMF  is 
further degraded to fumaric acid (FA). Likewise, MEF is metabolized by esterases to FA (Rostami-Yazdi 
Pharmacokinetic properties 
et al., 2010). 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 45/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8: Presumptive metabolic pathway of DMF and MEF (Rostami-Yazdi et al., 2010) 
and MEF are not metabolites of each other in vivo. 
MEF does not convert to either DMF or MMF, and DMF or MMF are not transformed into MEF. Thus, DMF 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The mechanism by which dimethyl fumarate exerts therapeutic effects in multiple sclerosis is not fully 
understood. Preclinical studies indicate that dimethyl fumarate pharmacodynamic (PD) responses appear 
to  be  primarily  mediated  through  activation  of  the  Nuclear  factor  (erythroid-derived  2)-like  2  (Nrf2) 
transcriptional pathway. Dimethyl fumarate has been shown to up regulate Nrf2-dependent antioxidant 
The main activity of DMF and MMF is considered to be immunomodulatory, resulting in a shift in T helper 
cells (Th) from the Th1 and Th17 profile to a Th2 phenotype and thus reducing inflammatory cytokine 
production with the induction of pro-apoptotic events, inhibition of keratinocyte proliferation, reduced 
In  preclinical  and  clinical  studies,  dimethyl 
fumarate  demonstrated  anti-inflammatory  and 
immunomodulatory properties. Dimethyl fumarate and monomethyl fumarate, the primary metabolite 
of  dimethyl  fumarate,  significantly  reduced  immune  cell  activation  and  subsequent  release  of 
In in vitro and in vivo studies MEF salts have been shown to: reduce IL-6 and TGF-alpha secretion in the 
psoriatic cocultures of KCs and T cells, suppress lymphocyte proliferation, induce early apoptotic effects 
expression of adhesion molecules, and diminished inflammatory infiltrate within psoriatic plaques. 
genes in patients (e.g. NAD(P)H dehydrogenase, quinone 1; [NQO1]).  
on lympho-histiocytic cells and induce a rapid, transient Ca2+ increase in KCs and inhibit KC proliferation.  
DMF, MMF and MEF are pharmacologically active 
Effects on the immune system 
Pharmacodynamic properties 
proinflammatory cytokines in response to inflammatory stimuli in preclinical models. In clinical studies 
with psoriasis patients, dimethyl fumarate affected lymphocyte phenotypes through a down-regulation 
of  pro-inflammatory  cytokine  profiles  (TH1,  TH17),  and  biased  towards  anti-inflammatory  production 
(TH2).  Dimethyl  fumarate  demonstrated  therapeutic  activity  in  multiple  models  of  inflammatory  and 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 46/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
neuroinflammatory  injury.  In  Phase  3  studies  in  MS  patients,  upon  treatment  with  Tecfidera  mean 
lymphocyte counts decreased on average by approximately 30% of their baseline value over the first 
year with a subsequent plateau (Tecfidera, SmPC). 
•  Clinical Efficacy 
Langner 2004, Mrowietz 2006).  
psoriasis. Cochrane Database of Syst Rev. 2015. 
Fumaderm from an efficacy standpoint, the following publications have been reviewed:  
the  therapeutic  effect  of  DMF  monotherapy  in  psoriasis  has  been  described  in  clinical  studies  (e.g. 
DMF/MEF) in psoriasis has consistently been described (e.g. Altmeyer, 1994, and Gollnick, 2002). Also, 
Most of the published clinical efficacy and safety studies in the indication psoriasis refer to Fumaderm 
(DMF/MEF)  or  other  DMF/MEF  combinations.  In  these  studies,  a  therapeutic  effect  of  Fumaderm  ( 
For  the  purpose  of  assessing  whether  MEF  has  a  clinically  relevant  therapeutic  contribution  within 
Atwan A, Ingram JR, Abbott R, Kelson MJ, Pickles T, Bauer A, Piguet V. Oral fumaric acid esters for 
Gollnick H, Altmeyer P, Kaufmann R, Ring J, Christophers E, Pavel S, Ziegler J. Topical calcipotriol plus 
oral fumaric acid is more effective and faster acting than oral fumaric acid monotherapy in the 
treatment of severe chronic plaque psoriasis vulgaris. Dermatology. 2002; 205: 46-53. 
Altmeyer PJ, Matthes U, Pawlak F, Hoffmann K, Frosch PJ, Ruppert P, Wassilew SW, Horn T, Kreysel 
HW, Lutz G, Barth J, Rietzschel I, Joshi RK. Antipsoriatic effect of fumaric acid derivatives. J Am 
Acad Dermatol. 1994; 30: 977-81. 
Falkvoll S, Gerdes S, Mrowietz U. Switch of psoriasis therapy from a fumaric acid ester mixture to 
dimethyl fumarate monotherapy: results of a prospective study. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges. 2019; 
17:906-912. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Lijnen R, Otters E, Balak D, Thio B. Long-term safety and effectiveness of high-dose dimethylfumarate 
in the treatment of moderate to severe psoriasis: a prospective single-blinded follow-up study. 
J Dermatolog Treat. 2016; 27: 31-6. 
Nieboer C, Langendijk PN, van Loenen AC, Gubbels J. Fumaric acid therapy in psoriasis: a double-blind 
comparison between fumaric acid compound therapy and monotherapy with dimethylfumaric acid 
ester. Dermatologica, 1990; 181:33-7. 
Mrowietz U, Reich K, Spellman MC. Efficacy, safety and quality of life effects of a novel oral formulation 
of dimethyl fumarate in patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. Results of a phase 3 
study. J Am Academ Dermatol. 2006: 54: AB202. 
Nieboer C, de Hoop D, van Loenen AC, Langendijk PN, van Dijk E. Systemic therapy with fumaric acid 
derivates: new possibilities in the treatment of psoriasis. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1989; 20: 601-608. 
Landeck L, Asadullah K, Amasuno A, et al. Dimethyl Fumarate (DMF) vs. Monoethyl Fumarate (MEF) 
Kolbach DN, Nieboer C. Fumaric acid therapy in psoriasis: results and side effects of 2 years of 
Nugteren-Huying WM, van der Schroeff JG, Hermans J, Suurmond D. Fumaric acid therapy for 
Salts for the Treatment of Plaque Psoriasis: a Review of Clinical Data. Arch Dermatol Res. 
Langner A et al. Results of a phase II study of a novel oral fumarate, BG-12, in the treatment of severe 
psoriasis. J Europ Academ Dermatol Venereol. 2004; 18:798. 
psoriasis: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1990; 22: 
311-2. 
treatment. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1992;27: 769-71.  
2018;310:475–483. 
Peeters AJ, Dijkmans BA, van der Schroeff JG. Fumaric acid therapy for psoriatic arthritis. A 
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Br J Rheumatol 1992; 31: 502-4. 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 47/68 
 
 
 
 
Walker F, Adamczyk A, Kellerer C, et al. Fumaderm® in Daily Practice for Psoriasis: Dosing, Efficacy 
and Quality of Life. Br J Dermatol. 2014;171:1197–1205. 
below.  
These are the following:  
relevant and are further described below.  
-  Kolbach  DN,  Nieboer  C.  Fumaric  acid  therapy  in  psoriasis:  results  and  side  effects  of  2  years  of 
Four  publications,  which  compared  the  efficacy  of  DMF  to  DMF/MEF  directly  are  considered  the  most 
Moreover, study by Nieboer et al. (1989), which evaluated the efficacy and safety of MEF-Na is discussed 
-  Mrowietz U, Szepietowski JC, Loewe R, et al. Efficacy and Safety of LAS41008 (Dimethyl Fumarate)    
in  Adults  with  Moderate‐to‐Severe  Chronic  Plaque  Psoriasis:  a  Randomized,  Double‐Blind, 
Fumaderm®‐ and Placebo‐Controlled Trial (BRIDGE). Brit J Dermatol. 2017;176:615–623. 
-  Nieboer C, Langendijk PN, van Loenen AC, Gubbels J. Fumaric acid therapy in psoriasis: a double-
blind comparison between fumaric acid compound therapy and monotherapy with dimethylfumaric 
acid ester. Dermatologica, 1990; 181:33-7. 
- 
Falkvoll S, Gerdes S, Mrowietz U. Switch of psoriasis therapy from a fumaric acid ester mixture to 
dimethyl fumarate monotherapy: results of a prospective study. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges 2019; 17: 
906-912. 
treatment. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1992; 27: 769-71. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Group 2 (n=67) was treated with DMF/MEF (enteric-coated (Fumaderm) tablets): (1) "Mite", containing 
30 mg of DMF, 5 mg Mg2+-, 3 mg Zn2+-, and 56 mg Ca2+-salts of MEF; or (2) "Forte", containing 120 mg 
of DMF, 5 mg Mg2+-, 3 mg Zn2+-, and 87 mg Ca2+-salts of MEF. Medication started with one "Mite" tablet 
per day to be increased weekly to three tablets per day. In the fourth week, medication was switched to 
one "Forte" tablet per day and this was increased weekly to a maximum of four tablets per day amounting 
Results: The percentage of patients that continued the therapy was significantly higher in the DMF/MEF 
combination group than in the DMF group after 6 months. After 24 months, 55 % continued the DMF/MEF 
medication versus 16 % of the DMF users. Sufficient therapeutic results were obtained in approximately 
50 %  of  the  DMF/MEF-treated  patients during  the  entire  study.  In the  DMF  group,  the percentage  of 
However, the non-randomised study of Kolbach and Nieboer (1992) is not suitable for a comparison, as 
the DMF-treatment group received only half of the DMF-dose in the Fumaderm-group. Moreover, this 
Efficacy  and  side  effects  of  treatment  with  either  DMF  monotherapy  or  DMF/MEF  salt  combination  in 
Group 1 (n=129) was treated with DMF, capsules filled with 60 mg of semi-enteric-coated. The dosage 
study was not randomized. Nevertheless, a short description of the study is provided below.  
to a maximum of 480 mg DMF + 380 mg MEF salts (i.e. 860 mg fumarate esters/day). 
was increased weekly by 60 mg to a maximum of 240 mg DMF/day.  
psoriatic patients were investigated over two years. 
Kolbach and Nieboer, 1992 
sufficient responders declined from 32 to 18 during the 24 months. These differences were statistically 
significant. The most important reason to discontinue the therapy was insufficient  efficacy in the DMF 
group (36 %). 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 48/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The study authors concluded that DMF/MEF combinatorial treatment was significantly superior to DMF 
monotherapy.  
Evaluation comment  
Moreover, mild topical corticosteroid was allowed during the study. However, no further information 
about the topical treatment was provided. No information about statistical analysis was found. Taking 
into consideration the evaluation of psoriasis, usage of topical corticosteroid might have distorted the 
results of the study. There are critical flaws in the study methods and statistical analysis, therefore no 
conclusion can be drawn from this study. 
There is no information on demographics and patients’ disease features (e.g. severity of psoriasis, 
disease duration, previous treatment) across the groups. In the absence of randomization or any other 
method to control for baseline unbalance (the article established that the choice of the therapy was 
determined by a patient´s insurance), this is a critical shortcoming that prevents the interpretation on 
causal effects.  
The efficacy and safety of DMF monotherapy in comparison to DMF/MEF salt combination was evaluated 
in  196  patients  with  nummular  or  plaque-type  psoriasis.  Numerical  superiority  of  DMF/MEF  salt 
combination  over  DMF  was  shown  (after  24  months,  55%  of  patients  continued  on  DMF/MEF  salt 
combination therapy, compared to 16% of patients on DMF). Moreover, in the DMF group the percentage 
of sufficient responders declined from 32% to 18% during the 24-month study, while in the DMF/MEF 
salt  combination  group  the  percentage  remained  unchanged.  However,  there  were  significant 
shortcomings in this study, including the fact that the amount of DMF in the DMF/MEF combination was 
twice of the amount of DMF in the monotherapy arm. Therefore, patients in the DMF monotherapy group 
may have been treated with doses which were not sufficient for all patients and it is therefore difficult to 
assess any additive effects of the MEF esters.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Study IV: comparative study of 720 mg MEFAE-Na compared with 240 mg MEFAE-Na. This dose  finding 
study was performed because the daily 240 mg dosage of MEFAE was ineffective. It was performed in 
20 patients, 12 women and 8 men: 10 had been treated with 240 mg MEFAE and 10 with placebo in 
the previous 4 months. The first group was given 720 mg daily, the latter 240 mg. The observation 
time was 3 months. 
Furthermore, longer dose titration scheme was used in the DMF/MEF combination group compared to 
DMF group. Finally, differences in formulations (galenical formulation of the DMF/MEF combination and 
semienteric-coated DMF capsules) preclude the comparison of efficacy and safety of both products.   
Study  II:  controlled  study  with  MEFAE  sodium  (Na).  In  a  double-blind  study  240  mg  MEFAE-Na  was 
This study contains 6 studies, however, only 2, considering MEF could be considered  relevant for this 
compared with placebo in 38 patients (22 women and 16 men). The treatment started with one capsule 
of 60 mg MEFAE-Na or placebo a day for a week. The dosage was increased in 3 weeks to a maximum 
Overall, it is concluded that this study does not allow a comparison of DMF vs. MEF/DMF. 
of 240 mg. The observation time was 4 months. 
Nieboer et al., 1989 
AR.  
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 49/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Results of fumaric acid derivatives in psoriasis with the use of different 
treatment schedules (studies I-V) 
Study IV: comparative study 720 mg versus 240 mg MEFAE-Na 
Study II: double-blind study with 240 mg MEFAE-Na versus placebo 
There was no difference between the numbers of improved, unimproved, or deteriorated cases in 
both groups. The average final score was the same in both groups, and so were the average final 
scores of each factor. Only the itching score showed a greater drop in the MEFAE-Na group than 
in the placebo group. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
While  the  subscores  for  extent  of  the  eruption,  the  redness  and  the  thickness  were  not  different 
between  720  mg  –  and  240  mg  –  treated  patients,  differences  in  favour  of  MEF-NA  at  the  dose  of 
720mg – treated patients were observed in the final scores of  scaling and itching in the study. The 
authors claimed these differences were statistically significant (p<0.05) and thus could be interpreted 
as  supporting  clinically  relevant  effects  of  MEF-Na.  However,  it  should  be  noted  that  the  average 
psoriasis severity score, established as efficacy endpoint in the section of methods in the article, was 
not different between both groups. Subscores were not presented as endpoints in this study and there 
was no evidence of adjustment for multiplicity. Therefore, the claim on statistical significance on scaling 
and itching scores could not be agreed. The small sample size is an additional limitation of the study.  
No difference was seen between the 720 mg versus the 240 mg regimen with regard to the number of 
improved patients. The average final scores of  the  total groups and the  extent of the eruption,  the 
redness and the thickness were the same, but significant differences (p < 0.05) were noted between 
the final scores of scaling and itching of both groups. 
Treatment with MEF-Na at the dose of  720mg  or 240  mg daily  resulted in  comparable considerable 
improvements  (>50%  n=3  in  both  groups).  Indeed,  the  same  number  of  patients  showed  an 
improvement > 50% of the global score in both groups.  
No difference between MEF-Na at the dose of 240 mg daily and placebo was observed in Study II. 
Evaluation comment  
Therefore, no conclusions on MEF-Na efficacy in psoriasis can be made based on this study. Moreover, 
no direct comparison to DMF was performed in these studies. 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 50/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MEF. 
Nieboer et al., 1990 
compared to DMF/MEF using the same DMF dosage and, thus, to assess the possible additional effect of 
The aim of this double-blind, 16 week trial was to assess the therapeutic effect of DMF monotherapy 
An ad hoc statistical analysis of Nieboer 1989 comparing the 240 mg Na-MEF data of Study IV, the 
720mg MEF data of Study IV and a group including 240mg  – and 720mg MEF data to the combined 
placebo  data  of  Studies  II  and  III  was  also  taken  into  account.  The  patients  in  these  groups  were 
categorized as follows:  “responders” who achieve at least 25% improvement, and “non-responders” 
who  achieve  less  improvement  or  deterioration.  The  rate  of  response  between  the  groups  was 
compared using Fisher’s Exact test (FET) or a chi-squared. Additionally, ordered logistic regression was 
applied considering 4 categories (“deteriorated,” to < 25% improvement, to 25 to 50% improvement, 
and to > 50% improvement). In the context of that ad hoc statistical analysis, it was submitted that 
individually  underpowered  studies  (Nieboer  1989)  of  the  effect  of  MEF  in  the  absence  of  DMF 
demonstrates  statistically  significant  efficacy  on  the  improvement  of  a  psoriasis  severity  score 
compared  to  placebo  when  results  are  pooled  to  increase  statistical  power  in  an  ad  hoc  statistical 
analysis.  
While Nieboer 1989 used a global psoriasis score different than the one that is currently considered as 
a standard  (PASI), it should be noted that  in  both  cases  the  response  is scored as a percentage of 
improvement with respect to the baseline value. In this regard, a 75% reduction in the PASI score with 
respect to baseline is the current standard of response assessment used for primary endpoints in most 
clinical  trials  of  psoriasis.  Lower  level  of  responses  (e.g.  50%  reduction)  have  also  been  used  as 
endpoints.  However,  responses  below  50%  are  not  considered  as  an  acceptable  demonstration  of 
treatment response. This is in line with the CHMP guideline on clinical investigation of medical products 
indicated for the treatment of Psoriasis (CHMP/EWP/2454/02 corr).   
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Patients 
Randomization into two groups was made between 45 patients. 25 female, 20 male. Aged between 18 
and 70 years. 22 were treated with DMFAE-E C. 23 with FAC-EC. At the end of the study 33 patients 
could be evaluated. 18 had been treated with DMFAE-EC and 15 with FAC-EC. At least 10% of the body 
surface was affected. At the beginning of the study 22 of these 33 patients showed the plaque type; 10 
the macular type; and 1 the guttate type of psoriasis. 11 patients had joint complaints, 6 in the DM FAE-
EC group and 5 in the FAC-EC group.  
In both groups 4 patients (18 and 15%) showed a full clearance. Considerable improvement occurred in 
15 out of 22 (68%) patients with the plaque type and in 4 out of 10 (40%) of those with the macular 
type. The patient with the guttate type showed a full clearance after a treatment of 2 months with FAC-
EC,  but  had  an  extensive relapse  1  month  later  even  though  the  therapy  had  been  continued.  For 5 
patients (22%) in the DMF AE-EC group and 1 patient (4%) in the FAC-EC group the psoriasis did not 
show any reaction to the therapy. The observed differences between the two groups appeared to be not 
significant. Deterioration, that is an increase of the score up to more than 125%, was not observed in 
either of the groups. 
The  individual  results  are  shown  in  Table  5.  Compared  to  the  initial  population  score,  a  considerable 
improvement (i.e. score more than halved) was observed in 45% of the patients treated with DMFAE-
EC and in 52% of the treated with FAC-EC. This improvement was statistically significant. 
Group 2 (n=23) received  max. 480 mg DMF/day  +  380 mg MEF  salts (max.  4 tablets/day  of  120 mg 
DMF + 87 mg Ca2+-MEF + 5 mg Mg2+-MEF + 3 mg Zn2+-MEF per tablet) for 4 months. 
Group 1 (n=22) received max. 480 mg DMF/day (max. 4 tablets/day of 120 mg each). 
Treatment  
Results   
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 51/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The general evaluation of the therapy by the patients usually corresponded with that of the investigators. 
Figure 9: Course of the total psoriasis score and of the 5 parameters in patients treated with 
DMFAE-EC (n= 18) or FAC-EC (n= 15) during 4 months. a Total psoriasis severity score. b 
Percent decrease of the 5 parameters of the severity score 
The  course  of  the  score  in  both  groups  with  regard  to  the  total  average  score  and  the  separate 
parameters is shown in Figure 9 a, b. It covers the observations of those patients who could be evaluated 
after 4 months: 18 in the DMFA E- EC group and 15 in the FAC-EC group. The total average score in the 
DMFAE-EC group dropped from 9.7 to 4.1 and in the FAC-EC group from 10.5 to 4.1. The course of this 
score in both treatment groups was not significantly different at any time point (1- V). Subsequently, 
the separate parameters, too, did not show a significant difference in time course. The results after 4 
months were not statistically different. 
The joint complaints of the 6 patients in the DMFAE EC group showed considerable improvement for 2 
patients, and some improvement for 1, and deteriorated or remained unchanged for the other 3. In the 
5 patients in the FAC EC group a considerable improvement occurred in 2 cases and a slight improvement 
in 3 cases. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Table 5: Comparative study on the effects of DMFAE-EC (n = 22) and FAC-EC (n = 23) on 
45 psoriasis patients 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 52/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
study designs: 
flushing symptoms, whereas another left the study, because his medication had been stolen.  
Table 6: Percentage improvement of PASI after Treatment with DMF or DMF/MEF (Nieboer 
studies) 
In the EPAR for Skilarence, the results of Nieboer  et al., 1990, and of the two sub-studies of Nieboer 
et al., 1989 are presented, as it is useful to compare the results of the same author, despite the different 
Discontinuations due to gastrointestinal side effects (gastralgia, diarrhoea, nausea) were reported for 3 
of the 22 patients of the DMF group and for 7 or the 23 patients treated with the DMF/MEF combination. 
Moreover,  one  patient  of  the  DMF/MEF  combinatorial  group  discontinued  due  to  the  appearance  of 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The aim of this double-blind study was to assess the therapeutic effect of DMF monotherapy compared 
to  DMF/MEF  using  the  same  DMF  dosage.  There  was  a  numerical  difference  in  favour  of  DMF/MEF 
compared to DMF monotherapy in regard to the improvement of the psoriasis severity score. However, 
as acknowledged by the authors of the study, the difference is not statistically significant. Higher rate of 
discontinuations were observed in DMF/MEF group compared to DMF group. Overall, the evidence of this 
study is limited due to its small sample size, the short duration of treatment, and the absence of control 
As shown in Table 6, the anti-psoriatic effect, i.e. improvement of PASI with 240 mg DMF monotherapy 
was  less  pronounced  than  with  480 mg  DMF  resp.  480 mg  DMF/MEF,  which  was  administered  in  the 
Nieboer study (1990). This means, the DMF dose applied in the Nieboer 1989 studies (III and IV) was 
quite low (probably too low to achieve convincing results). 
Evaluation comment 
for missing data (table 5 and figure 8 were based on a complete case analysis including 81% of patients 
in the DMFAE-EC [DMF] group and 65% of those in the FAC-EC [DMF/MEF] group). Subscores were not 
presented  as  endpoints  in  this  study  so  the  course  of  these  scores  over  time  should  be  regarded  as 
exploratory.  In  this  study,  the  greatest  differences  were  observed  for  redness  and  induration  scores 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 53/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
while a lower difference and no numerical difference were found for scaling and itching, respectively, as 
opposed to Study II and Study IV previously conducted by these authors (Nieboer et al., 1989). 
Mrowietz et al., 2017  
The objective of the BRIDGE study was to assess the efficacy and safety of a new formulation of DMF 
(LAS41008), compared with placebo and Fumaderm, in adults with moderate-to-severe chronic plaque 
psoriasis. 
In  this  Phase  III,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  noninferiority  trial,  patients  were  randomized  to 
receive LAS41008, Fumaderm, or placebo (2:2:1) for 16 weeks, up titrating to a maximum daily DMF 
dose of 720 mg, depending upon individual response. 
The co-primary endpoints were the percentage of patients achieving ≥ 75% improvement in Psoriasis 
Area and Severity Index (PASI 75) and the percentage achieving a score of ‘clear’ or ‘almost clear’ in 
the Physician’s Global Assessment (PGA) at Week 16. Secondary endpoints included PASI 75 at Weeks 
3 and 8, PASI 50 and PASI 90 at Week 16, and scores of 0 to 1 in the PGA at Weeks 3 and 8 and BSA 
at weeks 3, 8, and 16. 
Statistical analysis 
The sample-size calculations were based on PASI 75 response rates of 50% and 10% for LAS41008 and 
placebo, respectively, and ‘clear’/’almost clear’ PGA response rates of 40% for LAS41008 and 10% for 
placebo. For the non-inferiority test of LAS41008 vs. Fumaderm® regarding PASI 75 at week 16, a 
zero difference was assumed and a noninferiority margin of 15% was set. An alpha level of 0.05 was 
defined and a dropout rate of 15% was factored into the calculations. A total of 690 patients (276 per 
active group and 138 in the placebo group) provided a power of > 99% for the two superiorities 
tests of LAS41008 vs. placebo, and 90% for the non-inferiority test of LAS41008 vs. Fumaderm. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Figure 10: Trial design. BID, twice daily; QD, once daily; R, randomization; TID, three times 
daily. In the first 3 weeks, 30-mg dimethylfumarate tablets were used, and as the LAS41008 
30-mg and Fumaderm Initial tablets differed in colour and size, a double-dummy technique 
was used, with each patient also receiving one placebo tablet per tablet of LAS41008 or 
Fumaderm. Subsequent uptitration was achieved using indistinguishable 120-mg tablets. a 
Trial-centre visits at weeks 12 and 16; Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI), Physician’s 
Global Assessment (PGA) and body surface area (BSA) at week 16 only 
In total, 671 patients were randomized and included in the full analysis set (n = 267, LAS41008; n = 
273, Fumaderm; n = 131, placebo).  
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 54/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 11: Participants flow 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 55/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7: Demographic and baseline patient characteristics (treated population) 
Results 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Co-primary endpoints: Significantly more patients achieved PASI 75 at week 16 following treatment with 
LAS41008  than  with  placebo  [37.5%  vs.  15.3%,  P  <  0.001;  99.24%  confidence  interval  (CI)  10.7– 
33.7%].  Furthermore,  LAS41008  was  noninferior  to  Fumaderm  at  week  16  (37.5%  vs.  40.3%,  P  < 
0.001; 99.24% CI -14-0 to 8-4%) (Figure 12).  
Figure 12: Percentage of patients achieving ≥ 75% improvement in Psoriasis Area and 
Severity Index (PASI 75) at week 16 (full analysis set). *P < 0001 vs. placebo; † P < 0001 
noninferiority vs. Fumaderm 
At week 16, 33%, 37.4% and 13% of patients had achieved a score of ‘clear’ or ‘almost clear’ in the PGA 
in the LAS41008, Fumaderm and placebo groups, respectively, and LAS41008 was significantly superior 
to placebo (P < 0.001; 99.24% CI 9–31%) (Fig.12). Concomitant intake of potentially nephrotoxic drugs 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 56/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(n = 108), such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin II inhibitors and/or statins, 
did not have a significant impact on the primary outcome measures or on the safety profile of LAS41008. 
Figure 13: Percentage of patients achieving a score of ‘clear’ or ‘almost clear’ in the 
Physician’s Global Assessment (PGA) at week 16 (full analysis set). *P < 0.001 vs. placebo 
Evaluation comment 
Based on the above results, the Authors concluded that the study has demonstrated the efficacy and 
safety of LAS41008 (DMF) for adults with moderate-to-severe chronic plaque psoriasis, showing it to be 
significantly superior to placebo and noninferior to the approved combination of FAEs (Fumaderm). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
There was a small numerical difference in favor of Fumaderm in regard to the co-primary endpoints and 
most of the secondary endpoints. As stated in the EPAR “The effects in regard to the co-primary endpoints 
were numerically slightly lower in the Skilarence group compared to Fumaderm although this could be 
due to variability, a limited PD and the efficacy effect of MEFs in Fumaderm may also be contributing to 
an anti-psoriatic effect”. Therefore, these differences although suggesting an additional therapeutic effect 
of MEF in Fumaderm may also appear due to variability or a limited PD. More importantly, it should be 
noted that this study was aimed to demonstrate superiority of DMF versus placebo and non-inferiority 
versus DMF/MEF. Consequently, the design of this study does not allow to demonstrate superiority of 
DMF/MEF versus DMF.  
The coprimary endpoints were the percentage of patients achieving ≥ 75% improvement in Psoriasis 
Area and Severity Index (PASI 75) and the percentage achieving a score of ‘clear’ or ‘almost clear’ in 
the Physician’s Global Assessment (PGA) at Week 16. Secondary endpoints included PASI 75 at Weeks 
3 and 8, PASI 50 and PASI 90 at Week 16, and scores of 0 to 1 in the PGA at Weeks 3 and 8 and BSA 
at weeks 3, 8, and 16. In total, 671 patients were randomized and included in the full analysis set.  
The objective of this double-blind placebo-controlled study was to assess the efficacy and safety of DMF 
compared  with  placebo  and  Fumaderm  (DMF/MEF)  in  adult  patients  with  moderate-to-severe  chronic 
plaque psoriasis. Patients were randomized to receive DMF, Fumaderm, or placebo (2:2:1) for 16 weeks, 
up titrating to a maximum daily DMF dose of 720 mg, depending upon individual response. 
Significantly more patients achieved PASI  75 at  week  16 with either DMF or  Fumaderm compared to 
placebo (37.5%, 40.3% and 15.3%, respectively). 33% of patients treated with DMF achieved ‘clear’ or 
‘almost clear’ based on PGA at Week 16, compared with 13.0% receiving placebo and 37.4% receiving 
Fumaderm.  
Falkvoll S et al., 2019  
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 57/68 
 
 
 
 
 
Results 
This was a prospective observational trial in patients who were treated with the FAE mixture. Patients 
whose psoriasis had improved and who could tolerate treatment with the FAE mixture were recruited. 
Treatment with the FAE mixture was switched to the DMF product without any interruption on the basis 
of the current DMF dose in the FAE mixture. Patients were then scheduled for the next regular check-up 
three months later. To assess psoriasis severity, the PASI index (psoriasis area and severity index) was 
used. When presenting for their first check-up after switching, patients were handed a questionnaire to 
investigate their views about tolerability and efficacy and to provide a global judgment of the switch. 
A total of 40 patients (24 male, 16 female) were prospectively and consecutively recruited to the study 
and underwent a check-up after switching treatments. The age of adult patients ranged from 18 to 74 
years with a mean age of 46 years. One patient was 13 years old and received treatment off-label.  
Figure 14: Number of patients related to the duration of continuous FAE therapy that they 
received before switching from the FAE mixture to the DMF product (n = 40) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Efficacy as assessed with the PASI was equal or better in 34/37 patients, while 3/37 had a higher PASI 
severity  after  switching  (Figure  15).  A  PASI  estimate  was  not  available  at  one  of  the  visits  in  3/40 
patients.  
Most patients were treated with a daily DMF dose between 120 mg and 480 mg and had previously been 
treated with the FAE mixture for one to five years.  
In general, the patients regarded the outcome of the switch to the DMF product as neutral or positive 
(18 positive, 18 neutral, 4 negative).  
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 58/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 15: Clinical course of PASI in patients treated with the FAE mixture before (t1) and 
after (t2) switching to the DMF product. The mean time between the two visits was 91.8 
days (minimum 42 days, maximum 133 days; n = 37) 
period. 
Evaluation comment  
The Authors concluded that the results of this study showed that psoriasis patients can switch from the 
traditional  FAE  mixture  to  the  same  dose  of  DMF  with  similar  clinical  relief  but  without  any  washout 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Treatment with the DMF/MEF was switched to the DMF product without any interruption. Patients clinical 
state  was  evaluated  after  three  months.  To  assess  psoriasis  severity,  the  PASI  (psoriasis  area  and 
severity index) was used. 
The patients regarded the outcome of the switch to the DMF product as neutral or positive (18 positive, 
18 neutral, 4 negative). Efficacy as assessed with the PASI was equal or better in 34/37 patients, while 
3/37 had a higher PASI severity after switching.  
monotherapy. The study was not designed to evaluate the treatment difference between DMF/MEF and 
DMF in the treatment of psoriasis.  The objective of the study was to evaluate the clinical course of PASI 
in patients after switching to the DMF product.  
There are in a total 4 published studies which can be considered the most relevant for the evaluation of 
the clinical relevance of MEF in Fumaderm. However, the results of Kolbach & Nieboer (1992) were not 
However, based on the presented data it is not possible to evaluate in how many patients PASI improved. 
Therefore, it is not possible to conclude on differences in efficacy between the two treatments.  
Therefore, the assessment of the clinical relevance of MEF can be based on the results of 3 published 
This prospective study was aimed to investigate the switch from the currently used DMF/MEF to DMF 
included in the analysis due to severe limitations, described above.  
Discussion on Efficacy 
studies:  
In the Nieboer et al., study (1990), a numerical, but not statistically significant, difference in favour of 
DMF/MEF  compared  to  DMF  monotherapy  (52%  vs.  45%)  was  demonstrated  in  what  regards  the 
improvement of the psoriasis severity score. 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 59/68 
 
 
 
 
and placebo was 22%, the non-inferiority margin of 15% could not be appropriate. 
the evidence of this study is limited due to the small sample size and short duration of treatment. 
CI =14.0 8.4; p-0.0003), and the lower limit of the confidence interval was within the prespecified non-
inferiority limit of 15, given the absolute difference in proportion of responders by PASI 75 between DMF 
The most relevant study for this assessment appears to be study by Mrowietz et al. (2017), which was 
a  pivotal  study  for  the  Skilarence  MAA.  The  study  was  aimed  to  demonstrate  superiority  of  DMF  to 
When  only  patients  who  could  be  evaluated  after  16  weeks  were  included  in  the  analysis,  the 
improvement percentage (i.e. a psoriasis severity score more than halved) was 55 % in the DMF group 
and 80 % in the DMF/MEF group. However, this complete case analysis may be biased. Except for the 
single patient for whom the tables were stolen, all other patients discontinued due to adverse events, an 
intercurrent event, likely informative that was completely disregarded by the investigators. Therefore, 
the comparison of 55% - 80% should not be considered a reliable estimate of the difference. Additionally, 
placebo and non-inferiority to Fumaderm. Although both co-primary endpoints were met, the robustness 
of the demonstration of non-inferiority to Fumaderm was found questionable. As it was discussed in the 
EPAR for Skilarence, although the difference in proportion of patients achieving PASI 75 was -2.8 (99.24 
The comparison between DMF and Fumaderm showed  that Fumaderm consistently had  a numerically 
higher response rate. In FAS population, 37.5% of the patients in the DMF group compared to 40.3% of 
the patients in the Fumaderm group achieved PASI 75 at Week 16. Moreover, the proportion of patients 
In Falkvoll et al. (2019) study, efficacy as assessed with the PASI was equal or better in 34/37 patients, 
while 3/37 had a higher PASI severity after switching from DMF/MEF combination to DMF. However, it 
was not stated clearly in how many patients PASI improved. Therefore, it is not possible to conclude on 
differences in efficacy between the two treatments.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
randomized, double blind studies suggests that MEF could contribute to the efficacy of Fumaderm in the 
treatment  of  psoriasis.  However,  given  the  methodological  limitations  of  the  available  clinical  studies 
comparing directly DMF/MEF with DMF monotherapy in patients with psoriasis (small sample size, short 
duration of treatment, absence of methods to account for missing data, intercurrent events and multiple 
comparisons, absence of properly design studies to demonstrate superiority of DMF/MEF over DMF), a 
However, and as stated in the EPAR for Skilarance, “The effects in regard to the co-primary endpoints 
were numerically slightly lower in the Skilarence group compared to Fumaderm although this could be 
due to variability, a limited PD and the efficacy effect of MEFs in Fumaderm may also be contributing to 
is  supported  by  pharmacodynamic  studies  demonstrating  MEF  salts  biological  activities,  including 
reducing IL-6 and TGF-alpha secretion in psoriatic cocultures of KCs and T cells, suppressing lymphocyte 
proliferation  and  inducing  a  rapid,  transient  [Ca2+]  increase  in  KCs  and  inhibiting  KC  proliferation. 
Overall,  based  on  the  available  data,  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  MEF  in  psoriasis  appear  to  be 
demonstrated. A numerical difference in favour of DMF/MEF combination reported in two independent 
an  anti-psoriatic  effect”.  Therefore,  reasons  other  than  an  additional  therapeutic  effect  of  MEF  in 
Fumaderm  could  not  be  excluded.  More  importantly,  the  design  of  this  study  does  not  allow  to 
These data suggest that MEF may contribute to the efficacy in psoriasis to some extent. This assumption 
achieving PGA clear/almost clear was 33% and 37.4% in DMF and Fumaderm groups, respectively. 
clinically relevant effect of MEF in Fumaderm has not been demonstrated.  
demonstrate superiority of DMF/MEF versus DMF. 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 60/68 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Clinical Safety 
For  the  purpose  of  assessing  whether  MEF  has  a  clinically  relevant  therapeutic  contribution  within 
Fumaderm from a safety standpoint, the following four publications have been reviewed.  
Evaluation comment  
Kolbach and Nieboer, 1992 
no definite conclusion cannot be drawn from this study.  
coated vs enteric coated) could contribute to the overall tolerability.  
monotherapy, this is no sound proof that the MEF increased the tolerability. 
coated tablets, which could have resulted in different drug release and hence affected the safety profile. 
group (16% vs 18%). However, it should be noted that differences in both formulations (semi-enteric 
In terms of tolerability, side effects were the most frequent reason to stop therapy in the DMF/MEF group 
Comparable to the studies from Nieboer et al. 1989, DMF in the DMF-monotherapy group was formulated 
although  the  amounts  of  DMF  in  the  DMF/MEF  combination  group  were  twice  that  of  the  DMF 
as  capsules  filled  with  semi-enteric-coated  granulate,  whereas  Fumaderm  was  formulated  as  enteric-
slightly  higher  discontinuation  rate  was  reported  in  patients  from  DMF  group  compared  to  DMF/MEF 
Furthermore, taking into consideration different dose of DMF and different pharmaceutical formulation, 
Although the amounts of DMF in the DMF/MEF combination were twice that of the DMF monotherapy, 
were the most frequent in both groups. However, the aforementioned difference was not significant and 
(18%). For the DMF group, this percentage was 26%. In the first 6 months gastrointestinal complaints 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The  subjective  and  objective  side effects  are  shown  in  Table  8. The  flushings  started  3-4  h  after  the 
tablets  were  taken.  They  involved  a  feeling  of  tingling  heat,  accompanied  by  diffuse  redness,  which 
continued for about half an hour mainly localized in the face, arms and the upper part of the body. This 
symptom was not constantly present and in the course of the treatment its frequency decreased. More 
than  half  the  patients  were  troubled  by  serious  stomach  complaints,  involving  gastralgia,  but  also 
nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. For 14% (n = 3) of the patients in the DMFAE-EC group and 30% (n = 
7) in the FAC-EC group these complaints were a reason to discontinue the therapy. The abnormalities 
which were registered in the blood most generally were: leukopenia(< 3.0 x 109/1), lymphopenia (< 
15%) and eosinophilia (> 5%). The former two developed in the course of the 3rd and 4th months. The 
eosinophilia usually began in the first 2 months and disappeared spontaneously in most of the cases. 
Nieboer et al., 1990 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 61/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8: Side effects during treatment of psoriasis with DMFAE (n=22) or FAC-EC (n=23) 
over w period of 4 months 
1 Patient discontinued the treatment as a result of this symptom. 
2  3  Patients discontinued the  treatment as a result of these symptoms. 
3  7  Patients discontinued the  treatment as a result of these symptoms. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Treatment-emergent AEs (TEAEs) were reported in 83.9% and 84.1% of patients in the LAS41008 and 
Fumaderm®  groups, respectively, and in  59.9%  of patients in  the placebo  group. The majority were 
considered  ‘mild’  in  intensity  (66.7%,  67.1%  and  52.6%  in  the  LAS41008,  Fumaderm®  and  placebo 
groups, respectively). The most frequently reported TEAEs in both the LAS41008 (DMF) and Fumaderm® 
groups were gastrointestinal disorders (62.7% and 63.3%, respectively), including diarrhoea, abdominal 
pain,  nausea  and  flatulence.  Flushing  was  also  commonly  reported  (18.3%  and  16.3%,  respectively) 
(Table 9). 
In  this  study,  higher  discontinuation  rate  due  to  AEs  (nausea,  vomiting,  diarrhoea)  was  reported  in 
DMF/MEF  group  compared  to  DMF  group  (30%  vs  14%).  However  due  to  small  study  size,  no  clear 
conclusion cannot be made. 
Mrowietz et al., 2017  
Evaluation comment  
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 62/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9: Adverse events (AEs) reported by ≥ 5% of the patients in any treatment group 
(safety population) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Lymphopenia was reported in 28 patients (10.0%) in the LAS41008 group, with three patients (1.1%) 
considered severe (< 0.5 x 109 cells L.1), and in 30 (10.6%) patients in the Fumaderm group, with two 
patients (0.07%) considered severe. Proteinuria was reported in four patients (1.4%) in the LAS41008 
group and in six patients (2.1%) in the Fumaderm group. Overall, the frequency and type of the reported 
TEAEs were very similar and did not differ significantly between the LAS41008 and Fumaderm groups 
(Table 9). 
Laboratory investigations 
At week 16 or upon early treatment discontinuation, the mean total lymphocyte counts had decreased 
from baseline by 0.52 x109 cells L_1 in both the LAS41008 and Fumaderm groups, and by 0.08 x 109 
cells L_1 in the placebo group. 
Twenty-three  serious  TEAEs  were  reported  in  22  patients  (3.2%,  2.8%  and  3.6%  of  patients  in  the 
LAS41008, Fumaderm and placebo groups, respectively). Only four of these serious TEAEs, occurring in 
three patients randomized to Fumaderm, were assessed by the investigator as related to 
treatment (erosive gastritis, gastritis, gastric ulcer and gastroduodenitis). 
One  death  considered  unrelated  to  the  medication  was  reported  in  a  patient  receiving  Fumaderm 
(subendocardial ischaemia). No relationship between blood abnormalities and the onset of infections was 
detected. 
Similarly, the mean leucocyte counts had decreased from baseline by 0.73 x109 and 0.69 x 109 cells L_1 
in the LAS41008 and Fumaderm groups, respectively, compared with 0.04 x 109 cells L_1 in the placebo 
group. Lymphocyte counts below 0.7 x 109 cells L_1 were observed during the trial in 22 patients in the 
LAS41008 group (7.9%), 21 patients  in the Fumaderm  group (7.4%) and one patient  in the placebo 
group (0.7%). Based on the available follow-up data, white blood cell counts  progressively recovered 
after treatment with either LAS41008 or Fumaderm was stopped. 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 63/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Evaluation comment  
Evaluation comment  
Falkvoll S et al. 2019  
The safety profile was evaluated based on data of 699 patients. Comparable frequency of adverse 
events was observed in DMF and Fumaderm groups. Most of adverse events were considered mild in 
severity. Lymphopenia was reported in 10% of patients treated with DMF and 10.6% of patients from 
Fumaderm group.  
Overall,  no  significant  differences  in  AEs  and  overall  tolerability  were  observed  after  switching  from 
DMF/MEF to DMF. 31/40 and 26/40 patients did not notice differences between DMF and DMF/MEF with 
respect to gastrointestinal symptoms and flushing, respectively.  
The majority of patients (27/40) did not experience any difference in GI complaints after switching from 
the  FAE  mixture  to  the  DMF  product.  Gastrointestinal  tolerability  was  judged  as  better  for  the  DMF 
product by 7/40 patients and worse by 2/40 patients. No GI complaints were reported with either drug 
product by 4/40 patients. Flushing was unchanged in 24/40 patients, 8/40 reported less flushing and 
6/40 reported more flushing. Flushing did not occur with either drug product in 2/40 patients. Regarding 
the  question  of  overall  tolerability,  28/40  patients  reported  similar  tolerability,  8/40  reported  better 
tolerability with the DMF product and 4/40 said that tolerability was worse after switching. In answer to 
the question about skin status in general, 27/40 patients reported that it was unchanged after switching 
from the FAE mixture to the DMF product, patients, 7/40 reported that it was better and 6/40 said it was 
worse.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
In Mrowietz et al., (2017) study, frequency of adverse events reported in DMF and  Fumaderm groups 
In summary, no significant differences in the safety profiles of DMF compared to DMF/MEF combination 
the therapy compared to DMF/MEF group (16% vs 18%), differences in both formulations (semi-enteric 
The safety of DMF/MEF combination in comparison to DMF was evaluated in four studies (Kolbach and 
Although in Kolbach and Niebor (1992) study higher percentage of patients from DMF group discontinued 
Contrary,  in  Niebor  et  al.,  (1990)  study,  30%  from  DMF/MEF  group  and  14%  from  DMF  group 
Similarly, no significant differences  in AEs and overall tolerability were observed after switching from 
coated vs enteric coated) could contribute to the overall tolerability. Nevertheless, it should be noted 
that the amounts of DMF in the DMF/MEF combination were twice that of the DMF monotherapy.  
Niebor (1992); Niebor et al., (1990); Mrowietz et al., (2017) and Falkvoll et al., (2019)).  
discontinued the study due to AEs (nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea).  
DMF/MEF to DMF in Falkvoll et al., (2019) study.  
were observed in the available studies.  
Discussion on Safety 
was comparable.  
Unsolicited submission received during the evaluation 
During the assessment of the therapeutic contribution of MEF in Fumaderm, on 8 September 2021, the 
CHMP received an unsolicited submission from a company.  
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 64/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The unsolicited submission has been considered by the CHMP and supports its recommendation as 
outlined below (3. Recommendations and next steps). 
study mEAE-012 (which will be discussed below).  
within Fumaderm. The reasons for this are as follows:  
the Rapporteurs’ preliminary assessment report (“PAR”).  
that MEF is capable of producing an additive, synergistic benefit to DMF in a non-clinical disease model.  
The additional observations included, in particular, previously unsubmitted information relating to a pre-
On 1 October 2021, an interested entity submitted additional observations to the CHMP in response to 
clinical study. In support of that information, it has been claimed that the associated study demonstrates 
the  different  elements  of evidence  put  forward  mainly  reproduced  the  findings  (and  claims)  that  had 
finding that MEF has a clinically relevant therapeutic contribution within Fumaderm. It was noted that 
totality of the available data has not established that MEF has a clinically relevant therapeutic contribution 
First, the Rapporteurs reviewed the different elements of evidence, which was listed in support of the 
The Rapporteurs reviewed those additional observations including the pre-clinical study. Further to that 
assessment, it was found that these observations were not capable of altering their conclusion that the 
been previously submitted to the CHMP. The only new element of evidence pertained to the non-clinical 
3.  Submission  of  additional  scientific  observations  by  an 
interested entity 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Additionally, no information has been provided about how the entity addressed the inflation of the type 
I error rate as a result of multiple testing (multiplicity). In absence of a pre-specification of a primary 
endpoint and information on control of multiplicity, a conclusion on statistically significant effect cannot 
be reached and the statistically significant claims submitted for the aforementioned differences cannot 
be accepted.   
Second,  the  results  from  the  non-clinical  study  mEAE-012  were  taken  into  account.  These  results 
stemmed  from  an  experiment  conducted  in  an  experimental  autoimmune  encephalomyelitis  (EAE) 
model, which was designed to compare the impact of treatment with DMF or MEF monotherapy with a 
combination of DMF+MEF on clinical and histopathological characteristics. Of note, neither the literature 
reference nor the study report was provided and as such details of the study are not available. 
The interested entity has neither provided a study protocol nor a statistical analysis plan. In the absence 
of  this  information,  it  is  unclear  whether  this  is  a  therapeutic  non-clinical  exploratory  study  or  a 
therapeutic non-clinical confirmatory study.  
Altogether considered, these results are considered exploratory and difficult to interpret. Consequently, 
clear conclusions could not be made based on the presented histopathological examination results.  
However, a number of shortcomings were identified in relation to the usefulness of this pre-clinical 
study.  
However, the definitions of the primary and secondary endpoints for this study have not been provided.  
Moreover, it is not clear how the doses used in mice correspond to the doses used in humans.  
In  conclusion,  although  the  available  non-clinical  data  could  suggest  a  different  impact  of  DMF+MEF 
combination  on  progression  of  EAE  in  mice,  compared  to  DMF  monotherapy,  taking  into  account  the 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 65/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
presented results and the above-described limitations, this data cannot be relied upon to establish the 
non-clinical efficacy of MEF within Fumaderm.  
In light of all of the above and having taken into account all the available evidence (including the above-
has  a  clinically  relevant  therapeutic  contribution  within  Fumaderm  and  the  Rapporteurs’  conclusion 
described  non-clinical  study),  the  additional  observations  submitted have  not demonstrated  that  MEF 
The relevance of these non-clinical findings (either alone or in combination with the other elements of 
evidence presented) is limited in the context of the overall assessment, as these findings (account being 
taken of their above-outlined shortcomings) cannot suffice to establish the clinically relevant therapeutic 
contribution of MEF in the combination treatment. In that regard, the claim that MEF has an additive, 
synergistic effect within Fumaderm has not been demonstrated.  
Without prejudice to the above, it also bears noting that, while it is true that (an) active substance(s) 
within a fixed combination medicinal product may have additive or synergistic effects, it is expected that 
clinical data is presented for the purpose of establishing its contribution to the overall effect in terms of 
efficacy.  In  particular,  compelling  mechanistic  (in  vitro  data),  preclinical  and  pharmacodynamic  data 
could be adduced to support a claim of improved efficacy within the fixed combination medicinal product. 
That being so, improved efficacy over (an) individual active substance(s) that have established efficacy 
in the targeted indication (namely, DMF) needs to be shown. The design of the pivotal clinical studies 
should be according to specific clinical guidance, where placebo or standard of care  – instead of those 
individual active substances - may be acceptable as comparators. A direct comparison against individual 
active substances with established efficacy in the targeted indication would  however still be expected. 
More specifically, for the treatment of psoriasis, a three-armed, parallel-group studies with the active 
agent, placebo and comparative active treatment would be expected. Although the BRIDGE Study did 
take into account DMF, DMF+MEF and placebo, improved efficacy over DMF was not demonstrated.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The available non-clinical data even if not extensive is not scarce and it suggests a potential PD effect 
and PK differences.  
relevant therapeutic contribution within Fumaderm. Whilst said clinical data, including two clinical trials 
The CHMP reviewed all above-mentioned studies and data. The CHMP also considered all data submitted 
Fumaderm in the treatment of psoriasis to a small extent, this would need to be confirmed by appropriate 
(Nieboer et al., 1990 and Mrowietz et al, 2017) showing numerical differences in favour of the DMF/MEF 
data that demonstrate a clinically relevant therapeutic effect. In that respect, the evaluated data suffer, 
combination  vs.  DMF  alone  in  psoriasis,  may  be  indicative  that  MEF  contributes  to  the  efficacy  of 
The  available  clinical  data  is  not  conclusive  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  that  MEF  has  a  clinically 
-  Differences in DMF doses administered and differences in formulations (Kolbach and Nieboer, 1992); 
4.  Recommendations and next steps 
by the interested entities, including the data submitted by a company on 8 September 2021.  
-  Small sample size and short duration (Nieboer, 1989; Nieboer, 1990); 
in part, from severe methodological limitations, including: 
remains unchanged.    
- 
Lack  of  appropriate  methods  to  account  for  missing  data,  intercurrent  events  and  control  for 
multiplicity (Nieboer, 1989 and Nieboer, 1990); and 
- 
Lack of properly designed studies to demonstrate superiority of DMF/MEF over DMF (Kolbach and 
Nieboer, 1992; Mrowietz et al., 2017; Falkvoll S et al., 2019). 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 66/68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Taking into account the described results, including the severe methodological limitations of the clinical 
studies, it cannot be concluded based on these data that a clinically relevant therapeutic effect of MEF 
in Fumaderm has been demonstrated. 
5.  References 
clinically relevant therapeutic contribution within Fumaderm.  
Further to the above, the Rapporteurs recommend adoption of the opinion.  
Therefore, the CHMP concludes that the totality of the available data cannot establish that MEF exerts a 
Atwan A, Ingram JR, Abbott R, Kelson MJ, Pickles T, Bauer A, Piguet V. Oral fumaric acid esters for 
Hagedorn M, Kalkoff KW,  Kiefer G, Baron  D,  Hug  J,  Petres J. Fumaric acid monoethylester: Effect on 
DNA-synthesis and preliminary findings in experimental studies in animals. 1975; 254(1): 67-73. 
Falkvoll  S,  Gerdes  S,  Mrowietz  U.  Switch  of  psoriasis  therapy  from  a  fumaric  acid  ester  mixture  to 
dimethyl  fumarate  monotherapy:  results  of  a  prospective  study.  J  Dtsch  Dermatol  Ges.  2019; 
17(9):906-912. 
Altmeyer PJ, Matthes U, Pawlak F, Hoffmann K, Frosch PJ, Ruppert P, Wassilew SW, Horn T, Kreysel HW, 
Lutz G,  Barth J, Rietzschel  I, Joshi RK.  Antipsoriatic effect of fumaric acid derivatives. J  Am  Acad 
Dermatol. 1994; 30: 977-81. 
Gollnick H, Altmeyer P, Kaufmann R, Ring J, Christophers E, Pavel S, Ziegler J. Topical calcipotriol plus 
oral  fumaric  acid  is  more  effective  and  faster  acting  than  oral  fumaric  acid  monotherapy  in  the 
treatment of severe chronic plaque psoriasis vulgaris. Dermatology 2002; 205(1): 46-53. 
psoriasis. Cochrane Database of Syst Rev. 2015. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
psoriasis. J Europ Academ Dermatol Venereol 2004; 18(6):798. 
J Am Acad Dermatol. 1992 Nov; 27(5 Pt 1): 769-71. 
Peeters AJ, Dijkmans BA, van der Schroeff JG. Fumaric acid therapy for psoriatic arthritis. A 
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Br J Rheumatol 1992; 31: 502-4. 
Landeck L, Asadullah K, Amasuno A, et al. Dimethyl Fumarate (DMF) vs. Monoethyl Fumarate (MEF) 
Salts for the Treatment of Plaque Psoriasis: a Review of Clinical Data. Arch Dermatol Res. 
2018;310:475–483. 
Lijnen R, Otters E, Balak D, Thio B. Long-term safety and effectiveness of high-dose dimethylfumarate 
in the treatment of moderate to severe psoriasis: a prospective single-blinded follow-up study. 
J Dermatolog Treat. 2016; 27: 31-6. 
Nieboer C, de Hoop D, van Loenen AC, Langendijk PN, van Dijk E. Systemic therapy with fumaric acid 
derivates: new possibilities in the treatment of psoriasis.  J Am Acad Dermatol. 1989; 20(4): 601-
608. 
Mrowietz U, Reich K, Spellman MC. Efficacy, safety and quality of life effects of a novel oral formulation 
of  dimethyl  fumarate  in  patients  with  moderate  to  severe  plaque  psoriasis.  Results  of  a  phase  3 
study. J Am Academ Dermatol 2006: 54 (3) Suppl.: AB202. 
Nieboer C, Langendijk PN, van Loenen AC, Gubbels J. Fumaric acid therapy in psoriasis: a double-blind 
comparison  between  fumaric  acid  compound  therapy  and  monotherapy  with  dimethylfumaric  acid 
ester. Dermatologica, 1990; 181(1):33-7. 
Langner A et al. Results of a phase II study of a novel oral fumarate, BG-12, in the treatment of severe 
Kolbach DN, Nieboer C. Fumaric acid therapy in psoriasis: results and side effects of 2 years of treatment. 
Rostami-Yazdi  M,  Clement  B,  Mrowietz  U.  Pharmacokinetics  of  anti-psoriatic  fumaric  acid  esters  in 
psoriasis patients. Arch Dermatol Res. 2010; 302(7): 531-538. 
Skilarence – EPAR. 
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 67/68 
 
 
 
 
Sarheim BS, Joshi RK, Speiser P. Psoriatic fibroblasts in cell culture. Contribution to the mode of action 
of fumarates in psoriasis treatment. Department of Pharmacy, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology. 
Zürich, 1990. 
Sebök B, Bonnekoh B, Geisel J, Mahrle G. Antiproliferative and cytotoxic profiles of antipsoriatic fumaric 
Tecfidera – EPAR. 
Wipke BT,  Hoepner R,  Strassburger-Krogias K,  Thomas  AM,  Gianni D,  Szak S,  Brennan MS,  Pistor M, 
Gold R, Chan A, Scannevin RH. Different Fumaric Acid Esters Elicit Distinct Pharmacologic Responses. 
Neurol Neuroimmunol Neuroinflamm. 2021; 8(2): e950. 
Thio HB,  Zomerdijk TP,  Oudshoorn C,  Kempenaar J,  Nibbering PH,  van  der  Schroeff JG,  Ponec M. 
Fumaric acid derivatives evoke a transient  increase in intracellular free calcium  concentration  and 
inhibit the proliferation of human keratinocytes. Br J Dermatol. 1994; 131(6): 856-861. 
Sebök B, Bonnekoh B, Vetter R, Schneider I, Gollnick H, Mahrle G. The antipsoriatic dimethyl-fumarate 
suppresses  interferon-gamma  -induced  ICAM-1  and  HLA-DR  expression  on  hyperproliferative 
keratinocytes.  Quantification  by  a  culture  plate-directed  APAAP-ELISA  technique.  Eur  J  Dermatol. 
1998; 8(1): 29-32. 
Walker F, Adamczyk A, Kellerer C, et al. Fumaderm® in Daily Practice for Psoriasis: Dosing, Efficacy 
and Quality of Life. Br J Dermatol. 2014;171:1197–1205. 
acid derivatives in keratinocyte cultures. Eur J Pharmacol. 1994; 270(1): 79-87. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
CHMP Assessment Report  
EMA/150754/2022 
Page 68/68 
 
 
 
 
 
