used.  
Dimethyl Fumarate Neuraxpharm's RMP.  
Neuraxpharm's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
This summary of the RMP for Dimethyl Fumarate Neuraxpharm should be read in the context 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Dimethyl Fumarate Neuraxpharm. 
The RMP details important risks of Dimethyl Fumarate Neuraxpharm, how these risks can be 
minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Dimethyl Fumarate 
of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-
Dimethyl Fumarate Neuraxpharm’s Product Information give essential information to 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
healthcare professionals and patients on how Dimethyl Fumarate Neuraxpharm should be 
Summary of risk management plan for Dimethyl 
Fumarate Neuraxpharm, gastro resistant capsules, 
hard, 120 mg, 240 mg (Dimethyl fumarate) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in 
the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains dimethyl 
Further information about the evaluation of Dimethyl Fumarate Neuraxpharm’s benefits can 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/dimethyl-fumarate-neuraxpharm. 
fumarate as the active substance and it is given by oral use as 120 mg, 240 mg, gastro-
Dimethyl Fumarate Neuraxpharm is authorised for the treatment of adult patients with 
be found in Dimethyl Fumarate Neuraxpharm’s EPAR, including in its plain-language 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage 
risks  and  the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more  about  Dimethyl  Fumarate  Neuraxpharm's 
Important risks of Dimethyl Fumarate Neuraxpharm, together with measures to minimise such 
risks, are outlined below. 
resistant capsules, hard. 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
 
 
 
• 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. 
with or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
and regularly analysed so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures 
List of important risks and missing information  
not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
use of Dimethyl Fumarate Neuraxpharm. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
Important risks of Dimethyl Fumarate Neuraxpharm are risks that need special risk 
product can be safely administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and 
potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Dimethyl Fumarate Neuraxpharm is 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
•  Safety profile in patients over the age of 55 years 
•  Safety profile in patients with renal impairment 
•  Safety profile in patients with hepatic impairment 
•  Safety profile in patients with severe active GI 
• 
•  Decreases in leukocyte and lymphocyte counts 
•  Drug-induced liver injury 
•  Serious and opportunistic infections (other than 
•  Malignancies 
• 
• 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Increased risk of infection in patients concomitantly 
Interaction with nephrotoxic medications leading to 
Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML)  
taking anti-neoplastic or immunosuppressive 
Effects on pregnancy outcome 
Long term efficacy and safety 
Important potential risks 
Important identified 
Missing information 
renal toxicity 
therapies 
disease 
PML) 
risks 
• 
• 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference 
medicinal product. 
 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
obligation of Dimethyl Fumarate Neuraxpharm. 
There are no studies required for Dimethyl Fumarate Neuraxpharm. 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
 
