ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
3. 
2. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
Gastro-resistant hard capsule (Gastro-resistant capsule) 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Each gastro-resistant hard capsule contains 120 mg dimethyl fumarate 
Each gastro-resistant hard capsule contains 240 mg dimethyl fumarate 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Size “0” (approximate 21.3 x 7.5 mm) hard gelatin capsules with green cap and body, printed with 
“HR2” in black ink on capsule body containing white to off-white, round, biconvex enteric coated 
mini tablets plain on both the sides. 
Size “0” (approximate 21.3 x 7.5 mm) hard gelatin capsules with green cap and white body, printed 
with “HR1” in black ink on capsule body containing white to off-white, round, biconvex enteric 
coated mini tablets plain on both the sides. 
Treatment should be initiated under supervision of a physician experienced in the treatment of 
multiple sclerosis. 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord is indicated for the treatment of adult and paediatric patients aged 13 years 
and older with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4. 
Posology 
The starting dose is 120 mg twice a day. After 7 days, the dose should be increased to the 
recommended maintenance dose of 240 mg twice a day (see section 4.4). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a patient misses a dose, a double dose should not be taken. The patient may take the missed dose 
only if they leave 4 hours between doses. Otherwise the patient should wait until the next scheduled 
dose. 
Special populations 
Temporary dose reduction to 120 mg twice a day may reduce the occurrence of flushing and 
gastrointestinal adverse reactions. Within 1 month, the recommended maintenance dose of 240 mg 
twice a day should be resumed. 
Paediatric population 
The posology is the same in adults and in paediatric patients aged 13 years and older. 
Currently available data are described in sections 4.4, 4.8, 5.1, and 5.2. 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord should be taken with food (see section 5.2). For those patients who may 
experience flushing or gastrointestinal adverse reactions, taking Dimethyl fumarate Accord with food 
may improve tolerability (see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 4.8). 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord has not been studied in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Based on 
clinical pharmacology studies, no dose adjustments are needed (see section 5.2). Caution should be 
used when treating patients with severe renal or severe hepatic impairment (see section 4.4). 
Elderly 
Clinical studies of Dimethyl fumarate Accord had limited exposure to patients aged 55 years and 
above, and did not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they 
respond differently than younger patients (see section 5.2). Based on the mode of action of the active 
substance there are no theoretical reasons for any requirement for dose adjustments in the elderly. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
There are limited data available in children between 10 and 12 years old. 
The safety and efficacy of dimethyl fumarate in children aged less than 10 years have not yet been 
established. 
The capsule should be swallowed whole. The capsule or its contents should not be crushed, divided, 
dissolved, sucked or chewed as the enteric-coating of the mini tablet prevents irritant effects on the  gut. 
Changes in renal laboratory tests have been seen in clinical trials in patients treated with dimethyl 
fumarate (see section 4.8). The clinical implications of these changes are unknown. Assessment of 
renal function (e.g. creatinine, blood urea nitrogen and urinalysis) is recommended prior to treatment 
initiation, after 3 and 6 months of treatment, every 6 to 12 months thereafter and as clinically  indicated. 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Suspected or confirmed Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
4.3  Contraindications 
Method of administration 
Blood/laboratory tests 
For oral use. 
Drug-induced liver injury, including liver enzyme increase (≥ 3 upper limit of normal (ULN)) and 
elevation of total bilirubin levels (≥ 2 ULN) can result from treatment with dimethyl fumarate. The 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After starting therapy, complete blood counts, including lymphocytes, must be performed every 
3  months. 
Enhanced vigilance due to an increased risk for Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
is recommended in patients with lymphopenia as follows: 
 
time to onset can be directly, several weeks or longer. Resolution of the adverse reactions has been 
observed after treatment was discontinued. Assessment of serum aminotransferases (e.g. alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST)) and total bilirubin levels are 
recommended prior to treatment initiation and during treatment as clinically indicated. 
Patients treated with dimethyl fumarate may develop lymphopenia (see section 4.8). Prior to initiating 
treatment with dimethyl fumarate, a current complete blood count, including lymphocytes, must be 
performed. If lymphocyte count is found to be below the normal range, thorough assessment of possible 
causes  should be completed prior to initiation of treatment with dimethyl fumarate. Dimethyl fumarate 
has not been  studied in patients with pre-existing low lymphocyte counts and caution should be 
exercised when  treating these patients. dimethyl fumarate should not be initiated in patients with severe 
lymphopenia  (lymphocyte counts <0.5 x 109/L). 
dimethyl fumarate should be discontinued in patients with prolonged severe lymphopenia 
(lymphocyte  counts <0.5 x 109/L) persisting for more than 6 months. 
In patients with sustained moderate reductions of absolute lymphocyte counts ≥0.5 x 109/L  to 
< 0.8 x 109/L for more than 6 months, the benefit/risk of dimethyl fumarate treatment should be 
re-assessed. 
In patients with lymphocyte counts below lower limit of normal (LLN) as defined by local 
laboratory reference range, regular monitoring of absolute lymphocyte counts is  recommended. 
Additional factors that might further augment the individual PML risk should  be considered (see 
subsection on PML below). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
PML cases have occurred with dimethyl fumarate and other medicinal products containing fumarates  in 
the setting of lymphopenia (lymphocyte counts below LLN). Prolonged moderate to severe 
lymphopenia appears to increase the risk of PML with dimethyl fumarate, however, risk cannot be 
excluded in  patients with mild lymphopenia. 
Additional factors that might contribute to an increased risk for PML in the setting of lymphopenia  are: 
- 
duration of dimethyl fumarate therapy. Cases of PML have occurred after approximately 1 to 
5 years of  treatment, although the exact relationship with duration of treatment is unknown. 
Before initiating treatment with dimethyl fumarate, a baseline MRI should be available (usually within 
3  months) as a reference. The need for further MRI scanning should be considered in accordance with 
national and local recommendations. MRI imaging may be considered as part of increased vigilance in 
patients considered at increased risk of PML. In case of clinical suspicion of PML, MRI should be 
performed immediately for diagnostic purposes. 
PML has been reported in patients treated with dimethyl fumarate (see section 4.8). PML is an 
opportunistic  infection caused by John-Cunningham virus (JCV), which may be fatal or result in severe 
disability. 
Lymphocyte counts should be followed until recovery (see section 5.1). Upon recovery and in the 
absence of  alternative treatment options, decisions about whether or not to restart dimethyl fumarate 
after treatment  discontinuation should be based on clinical judgement. 
Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
Magnetic Resonance imaging (MRI) 
- 
profound decreases in CD4+ and especially in CD8+ T cell counts, which are important for 
immunological defence (see section 4.8), and 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
prior immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory therapy (see below). 
Physicians should evaluate their patients to determine if the symptoms are indicative of neurological 
dysfunction and, if so, whether these symptoms are typical of MS or possibly suggestive of PML. 
Prior treatment with immunosuppressive or immunomodulating therapies 
If a patient develops PML, dimethyl fumarate must be permanently discontinued. 
No studies have been performed evaluating the efficacy and safety of dimethyl fumarate when switching 
patients from other disease modifying therapies to dimethyl fumarate. The contribution of prior 
immunosuppressive therapy to the development of PML in dimethyl fumarate treated patients is 
possible. 
PML can only occur in the presence of a JCV infection. It should be considered that the influence of 
lymphopenia on the accuracy of serum anti-JCV antibody testing has not been studied in dimethyl 
fumarate treated patients. It should also be noted that a negative anti-JCV antibody test (in the presence 
of normal lymphocyte counts) does not preclude the possibility of subsequent JCV infection. 
At the first sign or symptom suggestive of PML, dimethyl fumarate should be withheld and appropriate 
diagnostic evaluations, including determination of JCV DNA in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) by 
quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) methodology, need to be performed. The symptoms of 
PML may be similar to an MS relapse. Typical symptoms associated with PML are diverse, progress 
over days to weeks, and include progressive weakness on one side of the body or clumsiness of limbs, 
disturbance of vision, and changes in thinking, memory, and orientation leading to confusion and 
personality changes. Physicians should be particularly alert to symptoms suggestive of PML that the 
patient may not notice. Patients should also be advised to inform their partner or caregivers about their 
treatment, since they may notice symptoms that the patient is not aware of. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
When switching patients from another disease modifying therapy to dimethyl fumarate, the half-life and 
mode  of action of the other therapy should be considered in order to avoid an additive immune effect 
while  at the same time, reducing the risk of reactivation of MS. A complete blood count is 
recommended  prior to initiating dimethyl fumarate and regularly during treatment (see 
Blood/laboratory tests above). 
PML cases have occurred in patients who had previously been treated with natalizumab, for which 
PML is an established risk. Physicians should be aware that cases of PML occurring following recent 
discontinuation of natalizumab may not have lymphopenia. 
In addition, a majority of confirmed PML cases with dimethyl fumarate occurred in patients with prior 
immunomodulatory treatment. 
Dimethyl fumarate has not been studied in patients with severe renal or severe hepatic impairment and 
caution  should, therefore, be used in these patients (see section 4.2). 
Dimethyl fumarate has not been studied in patients with severe active gastrointestinal disease and 
caution  should, therefore, be used in these patients. 
Severe active gastrointestinal disease 
Severe renal and hepatic impairment 
Flushing 
In clinical trials, 34% of dimethyl fumarate treated patients experienced flushing. In the majority of 
patients  who experienced flushing, it was mild or moderate in severity. Data from healthy volunteer 
studies  suggest that dimethyl fumarate-associated flushing is likely to be prostaglandin mediated.  A 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
short  course of treatment with 75 mg non-enteric coated acetylsalicylic acid may be beneficial in 
patients  affected by intolerable flushing (see section 4.5).  In two healthy volunteer studies, the 
occurrence and  severity of flushing over the dosing period was reduced. 
Infections 
Anaphylactic reactions 
In clinical trials, 3 patients out of a total of 2,560 patients treated with dimethyl fumarate experienced 
serious flushing symptoms that were probable hypersensitivity or anaphylactoid reactions. These 
events were not life-threatening, but led to hospitalisation. Prescribers and patients should be alert to 
this possibility in the event of severe flushing reactions (see sections 4.2, 4.5 and 4.8). 
Cases of anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reaction have been reported following dimethyl fumarate 
administration in  the post-marketing setting. Symptoms may include dyspnoea, hypoxia, hypotension, 
angioedema, rash  or urticaria. The mechanism of dimethyl fumarate induced anaphylaxis is unknown. 
Reactions  generally occur after the first dose, but may also occur at any time during treatment, and may 
be  serious and life threatening. Patients should be instructed to discontinue dimethyl fumarate and seek 
immediate  medical care if they experience signs or symptoms of anaphylaxis. Treatment should not be 
restarted  (see section 4.8). 
In phase III placebo-controlled studies, the incidence of infections (60% vs 58%) and serious  infections 
(2% vs 2%) was similar in patients treated with dimethyl fumarate or placebo, respectively. 
However, due to dimethyl fumarate immunomodulatory properties (see section 5.1), if a patient 
develops a  serious infection, suspending treatment with dimethyl fumarate should be considered and 
the benefits and risks  should be reassessed prior to re-initiation of therapy. Patients receiving dimethyl 
fumarate should be instructed  to report symptoms of infections to a physician. Patients with serious 
infections should not start  treatment with dimethyl fumarate until the infection(s) is resolved. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Cases of herpes zoster have occurred with dimethyl fumarate. The majority of cases were non-serious, 
however, serious cases, including disseminated herpes zoster, herpes zoster ophthalmicus, herpes zoster 
oticus, herpes zoster infection neurological, herpes zoster meningoencephalitis and herpes zoster 
meningomyelitis have been reported. These events may occur at any time during treatment. Monitor 
patients taking dimethyl fumarate for signs and symptoms of herpes zoster especially when concurrent 
lymphocytopenia is reported.  If herpes zoster occurs, appropriate treatment for herpes zoster should be 
administered. Consider withholding dimethyl fumarate treatment in patients with serious infections until 
the  infection has resolved (see section 4.8). 
There was no increased incidence of serious infections observed in patients with lymphocyte counts 
<0.8x109/L or <0.5x109/L (see section 4.8).  If therapy is continued in the presence of moderate to 
severe prolonged lymphopenia, the risk of an opportunistic infection, including PML, cannot be ruled 
out (see section 4.4 subsection PML). 
Dimethyl fumarate treatment should be started gradually to reduce the occurrence of flushing and 
gastrointestinal adverse reactions (see section 4.2). 
Herpes zoster infections 
Treatment initiation 
Fanconi syndrome 
Cases of Fanconi syndrome have been reported for a medicinal product containing dimethyl fumarate 
in combination with other fumaric acid esters. Early diagnosis of Fanconi syndrome and 
discontinuation of dimethyl fumarate treatment are important to prevent the onset of renal 
impairment and osteomalacia, as the syndrome is usually reversible. The most important signs are 
proteinuria, glucosuria (with normal blood sugar levels), hyperaminoaciduria and phosphaturia 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5 
Paediatric population  
(possibly concurrent with hypophosphatemia). Progression might involve symptoms such as 
polyuria, polydipsia and proximal muscle weakness. In rare cases hypophosphataemic osteomalacia 
with non-localised bone pain, elevated alkaline phosphatase in serum and stress fractures may occur. 
Importantly, Fanconi syndrome can occur without elevated creatinine levels or low glomerular filtration 
rate. In case of unclear symptoms Fanconi syndrome should be considered and appropriate 
examinations should be performed. 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
The long-term safety of dimethyl fumarate in paediatric population has not yet been established. 
The safety profile is qualitatively similar in paediatric patients compared to adults and therefore the 
warnings and precautions also apply to the paediatric patients. For quantitative differences in the 
safety profile see section 4.8. 
Dimethyl fumarate has not been studied in combination with anti-neoplastic or immunosuppressive 
therapies and caution should, therefore, be used during concomitant administration. In multiple sclerosis 
clinical  studies, the concomitant treatment of relapses with a short course of intravenous corticosteroids 
was not associated with a clinically relevant increase of infection. 
Concomitant administration of non-live vaccines according to national vaccination schedules may be 
considered during dimethyl fumarate therapy. In a clinical study involving a total of 71 patients with 
relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis, patients on dimethyl fumarate 240 mg twice daily for at least 
6 months (n=38) or non-pegylated interferon for at least 3 months (n=33), mounted a comparable 
immune response (defined as ≥2-fold increase from pre- to post-vaccination titer) to tetanus toxoid 
(recall antigen) and a conjugated meningococcal C polysaccharide vaccine (neoantigen), while the 
immune response to different serotypes of an unconjugated 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide 
vaccine (T-cell independent antigen) varied in both treatment groups. A positive immune response 
defined as a ≥4-fold increase in antibody titer to the three vaccines, was achieved by fewer subjects in 
both treatment groups. Small numerical differences in the response to tetanus toxoid and 
pneumococcal serotype 3 polysaccharide were noted in favour of non-pegylated interferon. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
In humans, dimethyl fumarate is extensively metabolised by esterases before it reaches the systemic 
circulation and further metabolism occurs through the tricarboxylic acid cycle, with no involvement of 
the cytochrome P450 (CYP) system. Potential drug interaction risks were not identified from in vitro 
CYP-inhibition and induction studies, a p-glycoprotein study, or studies of the protein binding of 
dimethyl fumarate and monomethyl fumarate (a primary metabolite of dimethyl fumarate). 
No clinical data are available on the efficacy and safety of live attenuated vaccines in patients taking 
dimethyl fumarate. Live vaccines might carry an increased risk of clinical infection and should not be 
given to patients treated with dimethyl fumarate unless, in exceptional cases, this potential risk is 
considered to be outweighed by the risk to the individual of not vaccinating. 
Commonly used medicinal products in patients with multiple sclerosis, intramuscular interferon beta-1a 
and glatiramer acetate, were clinically tested for potential interactions with dimethyl fumarate and did 
not alter the pharmacokinetic profile of dimethyl fumarate. 
During treatment with dimethyl fumarate, simultaneous use of other fumaric acid derivatives (topical or 
systemic) should be avoided. 
Evidence from healthy volunteer studies suggests that dimethyl fumarate associated flushing is likely to 
be prostaglandin mediated. In two healthy volunteer studies, the administration of 325 mg (or 
equivalent) non-enteric coated acetylsalicylic acid, 30 minutes prior to dimethyl fumarate, dosing over 
4 days and over 4 weeks, respectively, did not alter the pharmacokinetic profile of dimethyl fumarate. 
Potential risks associated with acetylsalicylic acid therapy should be considered prior to co-
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administration with dimethyl fumarate in patients with Relapsing Remitting MS. Long term (> 4 weeks) 
continuous use of acetylsalicylic acid has not been studied (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Pregnancy 
Paediatric population 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
Concurrent therapy with nephrotoxic medicinal products (such as aminoglycosides, diuretics, 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or lithium) may increase the potential of renal adverse reactions 
(e.g. proteinuria see section 4.8) in patients taking dimethyl fumarate (see section 4.4 Blood/laboratory 
tests). 
Consumption of moderate amounts of alcohol did not alter exposure to dimethyl fumarate and was not 
associated with an increase in adverse reactions. Consumption of large quantities of strong alcoholic 
drinks (more than 30% alcohol by volume) should be avoided within an hour of taking dimethyl 
fumarate, as alcohol may lead to increased frequency of gastrointestinal adverse reactions. 
In vitro CYP induction studies did not demonstrate an interaction between dimethyl fumarate and oral 
contraceptives. In an in vivo study, co-administration of dimethyl fumarate with a combined oral 
contraceptive (norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol) did not elicit any relevant change in oral 
contraceptive exposure. 
No interaction studies have been performed with oral contraceptives containing other progestogens, 
however an effect of dimethyl fumarate on their exposure is not expected. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of dimethyl fumarate in pregnant women. Animal 
studies have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Dimethyl fumarate is not recommended 
during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using appropriate contraception (see 
section 4.5). Dimethyl fumarate should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed and if the 
potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the foetus. 
It is unknown whether dimethyl fumarate or its metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to the 
newborns/infants cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding 
or to discontinue dimethyl fumarate therapy. The benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit 
of therapy for the woman should be taken into account. 
There are no data on the effects of dimethyl fumarate on human fertility. Data from preclinical studies 
do not suggest that dimethyl fumarate would be associated with an increased risk of reduced fertility 
(see section 5.3). 
Dimethyl fumarate has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. No studies 
on the ability to drive and use machines have been conducted but no effects potentially influencing 
this ability were found to be related to dimethyl fumarate in clinical studies. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Breast-feeding 
Fertility 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions arising from clinical studies, post-authorisation safety studies and spontaneous 
reports, are presented in the table below.  
The adverse reactions are presented as MedDRA preferred terms under the MedDRA System Organ 
Class. The incidence of the adverse reactions below is expressed according to the following categories: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
The most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥10%) for patients treated with dimethyl fumarate 
were flushing and gastrointestinal events (i.e. diarrhoea, nausea, abdominal pain, abdominal pain 
upper). Flushing and gastrointestinal events tend to begin early in the course of treatment (primarily 
during the first month) and in patients who experience flushing and gastrointestinal events, these 
events may continue to occur intermittently throughout treatment with dimethyl fumarate. The most 
commonly reported adverse reactions leading to discontinuation (incidence >1%) in patients treated 
with dimethyl fumarate were flushing (3%) and gastrointestinal events (4%). 
In placebo-controlled and uncontrolled clinical studies, a total of 2,513 patients have received 
dimethyl fumarate for periods of up to 12 years with an overall exposure equivalent to 
11,318 person-years. A total of 1,169 patients have received at least 5 years of treatment with dimethyl 
fumarate, and 426 patients have received at least 10 years of treatment with dimethyl fumarate. The 
experience in uncontrolled clinical trials is consistent with the experience in the placebo-controlled 
clinical trials. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Adverse reaction 
Gastroenteritis 
Progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
Herpes zoster 
Lymphopenia 
Leucopenia 
Thrombocytopenia 
Hypersensitivity 
Anaphylaxis 
Dyspnoea 
Hypoxia 
Hypotension 
Angioedema 
Burning sensation 
Flushing 
Hot flush 
Rhinorrhoea 
Very common (≥1/10) 
Common (≥1/100 to <1/10) 
Uncommon (≥1/1, 000 to <1/100) 
Rare (≥1/10, 000 to <1/1,000) 
Very rare (<1/10,000) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
Not known 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Not known 
MedDRA System Organ Class 
Infections and infestations 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Frequency category 
Common 
Immune system disorders 
Not known 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea 
Abdominal pain upper 
Abdominal pain 
9 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Flushing 
Common 
Feeling hot 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Common 
Vomiting 
Common 
Dyspepsia 
Common 
Gastritis 
Gastrointestinal disorder 
Common 
Aspartate aminotransferase increased  Common 
Common 
Alanine aminotransferase increased 
Not known 
Drug-induced liver injury 
Common 
Pruritus 
Common 
Rash 
Common 
Erythema 
Common 
Alopecia 
Common 
Proteinuria 
Ketones measured in urine 
Albumin urine present 
White blood cell count decreased 
Renal and urinary disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Investigations 
In the placebo-controlled studies, the incidence of flushing (34% versus 4%) and hot flush (7% versus 
2%) was increased in patients treated with dimethyl fumarate compared to placebo, respectively. 
Flushing is usually described as flushing or hot flush, but can include other events (e.g. warmth, 
redness, itching, and burning sensation). Flushing events tend to begin early in the course of treatment 
(primarily during the first month) and in patients who experience flushing, these events may continue to 
occur intermittently throughout treatment with dimethyl fumarate. In patients with flushing, the 
majority had flushing events that were mild or moderate in severity. Overall, 3% of patients treated with 
dimethyl fumarate discontinued due to flushing. The incidence of serious flushing, which may be 
characterised by generalised erythema, rash and/or pruritus, was seen in less than 1% of patients treated 
with dimethyl fumarate (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.5). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The incidence of gastrointestinal events (e.g. diarrhoea [14% versus 10%], nausea [12% versus 9%], 
upper abdominal pain [10% versus 6%], abdominal pain [9% versus 4%], vomiting [8% versus 5%] 
and dyspepsia [5% versus 3%]) was increased in patients treated with dimethyl fumarate compared to 
placebo, respectively. Gastrointestinal events tend to begin early in the course of treatment (primarily 
during the first month) and in patients who experience gastrointestinal events, these events may 
continue to occur intermittently throughout treatment with dimethyl fumarate. In the majority of 
patients who experienced gastrointestinal events, it was mild or moderate in severity. Four per cent 
(4%) of patients treated with dimethyl fumarate discontinued due to gastrointestinal events. The 
incidence of serious gastrointestinal events, including gastroenteritis and gastritis, was seen in 1% of 
patients treated with dimethyl fumarate (see section 4.2). 
Based on data from placebo-controlled studies, the majority of patients with elevations had hepatic 
transaminases that were <3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). The increased incidence of 
elevations of hepatic transaminases in patients treated with dimethyl fumarate relative to placebo was 
primarily seen during the first 6 months of treatment. Elevations of alanine aminotransferase and 
aspartate aminotransferase ≥3 times ULN, respectively, were seen in 5% and 2% of patients treated 
with placebo and 6% and 2% of patients treated with dimethyl fumarate. Discontinuations due to 
elevated hepatic transaminases were <1% and similar in patients treated with dimethyl fumarate or 
Hepatic function 
Gastrointestinal 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
placebo. Elevations in transaminases ≥3 times ULN with concomitant elevations in total bilirubin 
>2 times ULN, were not observed in placebo-controlled studies. 
Lymphopenia 
Increase of liver enzymes and cases of drug-induced liver injury (elevations in transaminases 
≥3 times ULN with concomitant elevations in total bilirubin >2 times ULN), have been reported in 
post marketing experience following dimethyl fumarate administration, which resolved upon 
treatment discontinuation. 
In the placebo-controlled studies most patients (>98%) had normal lymphocyte values prior to 
initiating treatment. Upon treatment with dimethyl fumarate, mean lymphocyte counts decreased over 
the first year with a subsequent plateau. On average, lymphocyte counts decreased by approximately 
30% of baseline value. Mean and median lymphocyte counts remained within normal limits. 
Lymphocyte counts <0.5x109/L were observed in <1% of patients treated with placebo and 6% of 
patients treated with dimethyl fumarate. A lymphocyte count <0.2x109/L was observed in 1 patient 
treated with dimethyl fumarate and in no patients treated with placebo. 
In clinical studies (both controlled and uncontrolled), 41% of patients treated with dimethyl fumarate 
had lymphopenia (defined in these studies as <0.91x109/L). Mild lymphopenia (counts ≥0.8x109/L 
and <0.91 x109/L) was observed in 28% of patients; moderate lymphopenia (counts ≥0.5x109/L and 
<0.8x109/L) persisting for at least six months was observed in 11% of patients; severe lymphopenia 
(counts <0.5x109/L) persisting for at least six months was observed in 2% of patients. In the group 
with severe lymphopenia, the majority of lymphocyte counts remained <0.5x109/L with continued 
therapy. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
In addition, in an uncontrolled, prospective, post-marketing study, at week 48 of treatment with 
dimethyl fumarate (n=185) CD4+ T cells were moderately (counts ≥0.2x109/L to <0.4x109/L) or 
severely (<0.2x109/L) decreased in up to 37% or 6% of patients, respectively, while CD8+ T cells 
were more frequently reduced with up to 59% of patients at counts <0.2x109/L and 25 % of patients 
at counts <0.1x109/L. In controlled and uncontrolled clinical studies, patients who discontinued 
dimethyl fumarate therapy with lymphocyte counts below the lower limit of normal (LLN) were 
monitored for recovery of lymphocyte count to the LLN (see section 5.1). 
Cases of infections with John Cunningham virus (JCV) causing Progressive Multifocal 
Leukoencephalopathy (PML) have been reported with dimethyl fumarate (see section 4.4). PML may 
be fatal or result in severe disability. In one of the clinical trials, one patient taking dimethyl fumarate 
developed PML in the setting of prolonged severe lymphopenia (lymphocyte counts predominantly 
<0.5x109/L for 3.5 years), with a fatal outcome. In the post-marketing setting, PML has also occurred 
in the presence of moderate and mild lymphopenia (>0.5x109/L to <LLN, as defined by local 
laboratory reference range). 
In several PML cases with determination of T cell subsets at the time of diagnosis of PML, CD8+ T 
cell counts were found to be decreased to <0.1x109/L, whereas reductions in CD4+ T cells counts 
were variable (ranging from <0.05 to 0.5x109/L) and correlated more with the overall severity of 
lymphopenia (<0.5 x109/L to <LLN). Consequently, the CD4+/CD8+ ratio was increased in these 
patients. 
Prolonged moderate to severe lymphopenia appears to increase the risk of PML with dimethyl 
fumarate, however, PML also occurred in patients with mild lymphopenia. Additionally, the majority 
of PML cases in the post-marketing setting have occurred in patients >50 years. 
Infections, including PML and opportunistic infections 
Herpes zoster infections have been reported with dimethyl fumarate use. In an ongoing long-term 
extension study, in which 1,736 MS patients are treated with dimethyl fumarate, approximately 5% 
experienced one or more events of herpes zoster, the majority of which were mild to moderate in 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
Laboratory abnormalities 
A transient increase in mean eosinophil counts was seen during the first 2 months of therapy. 
severity. Most subjects, including those who experienced a serious herpes zoster infection, had 
lymphocyte counts above the lower limit of normal. In a majority of subjects with concurrent 
lymphocyte counts below the LLN, lymphopenia was rated moderate or severe. In the post-marketing 
setting most cases of herpes zoster infection were non-serious and resolved with treatment. Limited 
data is available on absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) in patients with herpes zoster infection in the 
post-marketing setting. However, when reported, most patients experienced moderate (≥0.5x109/L to 
0.8x109/L) or severe (<0.5x109/L to 0.2x109/L) lymphopenia (see section 4.4). 
In the placebo-controlled studies, measurement of urinary ketones (1+ or greater) was higher in 
patients treated with dimethyl fumarate (45%) compared to placebo (10%). No untoward clinical 
consequences were observed in clinical trials. 
In a 96 week open label, randomised active controlled trial in paediatric patients with RRMS 
aged 10 to less than 18 years (120 mg twice a day for 7 days followed by 240 mg twice a day for the 
remainder of treatment; study population, n=78), the safety profile in paediatric patients appeared 
similar to that previously observed in adult patients. 
Levels of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D decreased in dimethyl fumarate treated patients relative to 
placebo (median percentage decrease from baseline at 2 years of 25% versus 15%, respectively) and 
levels of parathyroid hormone (PTH) increased in dimethyl fumarate treated patients relative to 
placebo (median percentage increase from baseline at 2 years of 29% versus 15%, respectively). 
Mean values for both parameters remained within normal range. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Headache was reported in 28% of patients treated with dimethyl fumarate versus 36% in
patients treated with interferon beta-1a.
Gastrointestinal disorders were reported in 74% of patients treated with dimethyl fumarate
versus 31% in patients treated with interferon beta-1a. Among them, abdominal pain and
vomiting were the most frequently reported with dimethyl fumarate.
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders were reported in 32% of patients treated with
dimethyl fumarate versus 11% in patients treated with interferon beta-1a. Among them,
oropharyngeal pain and cough were the most frequently reported with dimethyl fumarate.
Dysmenorrhea was reported in 17% of patients treated with dimethyl fumarate versus 7% of
patients treated with interferon beta-1a.
The following adverse reactions were more frequently reported (≥10%) in the paediatric population 
than in the adult population:  
•
In a small 24 week open-label uncontrolled study in paediatric patients with RRMS  aged 13 to 17 years 
(120 mg twice a day for 7 days followed by 240 mg twice a day for the remainder  of treatment; safety 
population, n=22), followed by a 96 week extension study (240 mg twice per day; safety population 
n=20), the safety profile appeared similar to that observed in adult patients. 
The paediatric clinical trial design differed from the adult placebo-controlled clinical trials. Therefore, a 
contribution of clinical trial design to numerical differences in adverse reactions between the paediatric 
and adult populations, cannot be excluded.  
•
•
•
There are limited data available in children between 10 and 12 years old. The safety and efficacy of 
dimethyl fumarate in children aged less than 10 years have not yet been established. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
12 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
5. 
Mechanism of action  
Pharmacodynamic effects 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, other immunosuppressants, ATC code: L04AX07 
Cases of overdose with dimethyl fumarate have been reported. The symptoms described in these cases 
were consistent with the known adverse reaction profile of dimethyl fumarate. There are no known 
therapeutic interventions to enhance elimination of dimethyl fumarate nor is there a known antidote. In 
the event of overdose, it is recommended that symptomatic supportive treatment be initiated as 
clinically indicated. 
The mechanism by which dimethyl fumarate exerts therapeutic effects in multiple sclerosis is not fully 
understood. Preclinical studies indicate that dimethyl fumarate pharmacodynamic responses appear to 
be primarily mediated through activation of the Nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) 
transcriptional pathway. Dimethyl fumarate has been shown to up regulate Nrf2-dependent antioxidant 
genes in patients (e.g. NAD(P)H dehydrogenase, quinone 1; [NQO1]). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Effects on the immune system 
In preclinical and clinical studies, dimethyl fumarate demonstrated anti-inflammatory and 
immunomodulatory properties. Dimethyl fumarate and monomethyl fumarate, the primary metabolite 
of dimethyl fumarate, significantly reduced immune cell activation and subsequent release of 
pro-inflammatory cytokines in response to inflammatory stimuli in preclinical models. In clinical 
studies with psoriasis patients, dimethyl fumarate affected lymphocyte phenotypes through a down-
regulation of pro-inflammatory cytokine profiles (TH1, TH17), and biased towards anti-inflammatory 
production (TH2). Dimethyl fumarate demonstrated therapeutic activity in multiple models of 
inflammatory and neuroinflammatory injury. In Phase 3 studies in MS patients (DEFINE, CONFIRM 
and ENDORSE), upon treatment with dimethyl fumarate mean lymphocyte counts decreased on 
average by approximately 30% of their baseline value over the first year with a subsequent plateau. In 
these studies, patients who discontinued dimethyl fumarate therapy with lymphocyte counts below the 
lower limit of normal (LLN, 910 cells/mm3) were monitored for recovery of lymphocyte counts to the 
LLN. 
Figure 1 shows the proportion of patients estimated to reach the LLN based on the Kaplan-Meier 
method without prolonged severe lymphopenia. The recovery baseline (RBL) was defined as the last 
on-treatment ALC prior to dimethyl fumarate discontinuation. The estimated proportion of patients 
recovering to LLN (ALC ≥ 0.9 x 109/L) at Week 12 and Week 24, who had mild, moderate, or severe 
lymphopenia at RBL are presented in Table 1, Table 2, and Table 3 with 95% pointwise confidence 
intervals. The standard error of the Kaplan-Meier estimator of the survival function is computed using 
Greenwood’s formula. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier Method; Proportion of Patients with Recovery to ≥ 910 cells/mm3 LLN 
from the Recovery Baseline (RBL) 
Baseline 
N=86 
Table 1: Kaplan-Meier Method; Proportion of patients estimated to reach LLN, mild 
lymphopenia at the recovery baseline (RBL), excluding patients with prolonged severe 
lymphopenia 
Number of patients with mild 
lymphopeniaa at risk 
Proportion reaching 
LLN (95% CI) 
a Patients with ALC < 910 and ≥ 800 cells/mm3 at RBL, excluding patients with prolonged severe lymphopenia. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Number of patients with moderate 
lymphopeniaa at risk 
Proportion reaching 
LLN (95% CI) 
a Patients with ALC < 800 and ≥ 500 cells/mm3 at RBL, excluding patients with prolonged severe 
lymphopenia. 
Number of patients with severe 
lymphopeniaa at risk 
Proportion reaching 
LLN (95% CI) 
a Patients with ALC < 500 cells/mm3 at RBL, excluding patients with prolonged severe lymphopenia. 
Table 2: Kaplan-Meier Method; Proportion of patients estimated to reach LLN, moderate 
lymphopenia at the recovery baseline (RBL), excluding patients with prolonged severe 
lymphopenia 
Table 3: Kaplan-Meier Method; Proportion of patients estimated to reach LLN, severe 
lymphopenia at the recovery baseline (RBL), excluding patients with prolonged severe 
lymphopenia 
Week 12 
N=12 
0.81 
(0.71, 0.89) 
Week 12 
N=6 
0.43 
(0.20, 0.75) 
Week 24 
N=4 
0.62 
(0.35, 0.88) 
Week 12 
N=33 
0.57 
(0.46, 0.67) 
Week 24 
N=17 
0.70 
(0.60, 0.80) 
Week 24 
N=4 
0.90 
(0.81, 0.96) 
Baseline 
N=18 
Baseline 
N=124 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Two, 2 year, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies (DEFINE with 1,234 patients and 
CONFIRM with 1,417 patients) of patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) were 
performed. Patients with progressive forms of MS were not included in these studies.  
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy (see table below) and safety were demonstrated in patients with Expanded Disability Status 
Scale (EDSS) scores ranging from 0 to 5 inclusive, who had experienced at least 1 relapse during the 
year prior to randomisation, or, in the 6 weeks before randomisation had a brain Magnetic Resonance 
Imaging (MRI) demonstrating at least one gadolinium-enhancing (Gd+) lesion. Study CONFIRM 
contained a rater-blinded (i.e. study physician/ investigator assessing the response to study treatment 
was blinded) reference comparator of glatiramer acetate. 
In DEFINE, patients had the following median baseline characteristics: age 39 years, disease duration 
7.0 years, EDSS score 2.0. In addition, 16% of patients had an EDSS score >3.5, 28% had ≥ 2 relapses 
in the prior year and 42% had previously received other approved MS treatments. In the MRI cohort 
36% of patients entering the study had Gd+ lesions at baseline (mean number of Gd+ lesions 1.4). 
The ARR for glatiramer acetate and placebo was 0.286 and 0.401 respectively in study CONFIRM, 
corresponding to a reduction of 29% (p=0.013), which is consistent with approved  prescribing 
information 
Compared to placebo, patients treated with dimethyl fumarate had a clinically meaningful and 
statistically significant reduction on the primary endpoint in study DEFINE, proportion of patients 
relapsed at 2 years; and the primary endpoint in study CONFIRM, annualised relapse rate (ARR) at 
2 years. 
In CONFIRM, patients had the following median baseline characteristics: age 37 years, disease 
duration 6.0 years, EDSS score 2.5. In addition, 17% of patients had an EDSS score >3.5, 32% had 
≥2 relapses in the prior year and 30% had previously received other approved MS treatments. In the 
MRI cohort 45% of patients entering the study had Gd+ lesions at baseline (mean number of 
Gd+ lesions 2.4). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Placebo  Dimethyl 
fumarate 
240 mg 
twice a day 
410 
0.172*** 
0.47 
(0.37, 0.61) 
0.270*** 
0.51 
(0.40, 0.66) 
0.164** 
Placebo  Dimethyl 
fumarate 
240 mg 
twice a day 
359 
0.224*** 
0.56 
(0.42, 0.74) 
0.291** 
0.66 
(0.51, 0.86) 
0.128#
Proportion relapsed 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI) 
Proportion with 12-week 
confirmed disability 
progression 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI) 
Proportion with 24 week 
confirmed disability 
progression 
Clinical Endpointsa
No. patients 
Annualised relapse rate 
Rate ratio 
(95% CI) 
350 
0.286* 
0.71 
(0.55, 0.93) 
0.321** 
0.71 
(0.55, 0.92) 
0.156#
0.93 
(0.63, 1.37) 
0.108# 
0.62 
(0.44, 0.87) 
0.128# 
0.79 
(0.52, 1.19) 
0.078# 
Glatiramer 
acetate 
0.87 
(0.55, 1.38) 
0.77 
(0.52, 1.14) 
0.62 
(0.37, 1.03) 
363 
0.401 
408 
0.364 
CONFIRM 
DEFINE 
0.125 
0.169 
0.169 
0.410 
0.461 
0.271 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI) 
MRI Endpointsb
No. patients 
165 
Mean (median) number of  16.5 
new or newly enlarging 
(7.0) 
T2 lesions over 2 years 
152 
3.2 
(1.0)*** 
144 
19.9 
(11.0) 
147 
5.7 
(2.0)*** 
161 
9.6 
(3.0)*** 
Lesion mean ratio 
0.15 
0.29 
0.46 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEFINE 
CONFIRM 
(95% CI) 
Glatiramer 
acetate 
(0.33, 0.63) 
0.7 
(0.0)** 
0.39 
(0.24, 0.65) 
4.5 
(2.0)** 
Placebo  Dimethyl 
fumarate 
240 mg 
(0.10, 0.23) 
twice a day 
0.1 
(0)*** 
0.10 
(0.05, 0.22) 
2.0 
(1.0)*** 
(2.0) 
Placebo  Dimethyl 
fumarate 
240 mg 
(0.21, 0.41) 
twice a day 
0.5 
(0.0)*** 
0.26 
(0.15, 0.46) 
3.8 
(1.0)*** 
8.1 
(4.0) 
. 
2.0 
(0.0) 
Odds ratio 
(95% CI) 
0.43 
(0.30, 0.61) 
0.28 
(0.20, 0.39) 
0.59 
(0.42, 0.82) 
Lesion mean ratio 
(95% CI) 
Mean (median) number of  1.8 
(0) 
Gd lesions at 2 years 
Mean (median) number of  5.7 
new T1 hypointense 
lesions over 2 years 
aAll analyses of clinical endpoints were intent-to-treat; bMRI analysis used MRI cohort 
*P-value < 0.05; **P-value < 0.01; ***P-value < 0.0001; #not statistically significant 
An open non-controlled 8 year extension study (ENDORSE) enrolled 1,736 eligible RRMS patients 
from the pivotal studies (DEFINE and CONFIRM). The primary objective of the study was to assess 
the long-term safety of dimethyl fumarate in patients with RRMS. Of the 1,736 patients, 
approximately half (909, 52%) were treated for 6 years or longer. 501 patients were continuously 
treated with dimethyl fumarate 240 mg twice daily across all 3 studies and 249 patients who were 
previously treated with placebo in studies DEFINE and CONFIRM received treatment 240 mg twice 
daily in study ENDORSE. Patients who received treatment twice daily continuously were treated for 
up to 12 years. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
In study ENDORSE, the majority of patients (> 75%) did not have confirmed disability progression 
(measured as 6 month sustained disability progression). Pooled results from the three studies 
demonstrated dimethyl fumarate treated patients had consistent and low rates of confirmed disability 
progression with slight increase in mean EDSS scores across ENDORSE. MRI assessments (up to 
year 6, including 752 patients who had previously been included in the MRI cohort of studies DEFINE 
and CONFIRM showed that the majority of patients (approximately 90%) had no Gd-enhancing 
lesions. Over the 6 years, the annual adjusted mean number of new or newly enlarging T2 and new T1 
lesions remained low. 
During study ENDORSE, more than half of all patients treated with dimethyl fumarate 240 mg twice 
daily did not have a relapse. For patients continuously treated twice daily across all 3 studies, the 
adjusted ARR was 0.187 (95% CI: 0.156, 0.224) in studies DEFINE and CONFIRM and 0.141 (95% 
CI: 0.119, 0.167) in study ENDORSE. For patients previously treated with placebo, the adjusted ARR 
decreased from 0.330 (95% CI: 0.266, 0.408) in studies DEFINE and CONFIRM to 0.149 (95% CI: 
0.116, 0.190) in study ENDORSE. 
Efficacy in patients with high disease activity: 
In studies DEFINE and CONFIRM, consistent treatment effect on relapses in a subgroup of patients 
with high disease activity was observed, whilst the effect on time to 3-month sustained disability 
progression was not clearly established. Due to the design of the studies, high disease activity was 
defined as follows: 
- 
Patients with 2 or more relapses in one year, and with one or more Gd-enhancing lesions on 
brain MRI (n=42 in DEFINE; n=51 in CONFIRM) or, 
Patients who have failed to respond to a full and adequate course (at least one year of treatment) 
of beta-interferon, having had at least 1 relapse in the previous year while on therapy, and at 
least 9 T2-hyperintense lesions in cranial MRI or at least 1 Gd-enhancing lesion, or patients 
having an unchanged or increased relapse rate in the prior year as compared to the previous 
2 years (n=177 in DEFINE; n=141 in CONFIRM). 
- 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The safety profile in paediatric patients (aged 13 to less than 18 years of age) receiving dimethyl 
fumarate was qualitatively consistent with that previously observed in adult patients (see section 4.8). 
The probability for clinical relapse was 34% in the dimethyl fumarate group and 48% in the interferon 
beta-1a group by the end of the 96 week open-label study period. 
The proportion of patients in the ITT population with no new or newly enlarging T2 MRI lesions at 
week 96 relative to baseline was 12.8% for dimethyl fumarate versus 2.8% in the interferon beta-1a 
group. The mean number of new or newly enlarging T2 lesions at Week 96 relative to baseline, 
adjusted for baseline number of T2 lesions and age (ITT population excluding patients without MRI 
measurements) was 12.4 for dimethyl fumarate and 32.6 for interferon beta-1a. 
The safety and effectiveness of Dimethyl fumarate in paediatric RRMS was evaluated in a 
randomised, open-label, active-controlled (interferon beta-1a) parallel group study in patients with 
RRMS aged 10 to less than 18 years of age. One hundred and fifty patients were randomised to 
dimethyl fumarate (240 mg BID oral) or interferon beta-1a (30 μg IM once a week) for 96 weeks. The 
primary endpoint was the proportion of patients free of new or newly enlarging T2 hyperintense 
lesions on brain MRI scans at week 96. The main secondary endpoint was the number of new or newly 
enlarging T2 hyperintense lesions on brain MRI scans at week 96. Descriptive statistics are presented 
as no confirmatory hypothesis was pre-planned for the primary endpoint. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The Tmax of monomethyl fumarate is 2 to 2.5 hours. As dimethyl fumarate gastro-resistant hard 
capsules contain mini tablets, which are protected by an enteric coating, absorption does not 
commence until they leave the stomach (generally less than 1 hour). Following 240 mg twice a day 
administered with food, the median peak (Cmax) was 1.72 mg/l and overall area under the curve (AUC) 
exposure was 8.02 h.mg/l in subjects with multiple sclerosis. Overall, Cmax and AUC increased 
approximately dose-proportionally in the dose range studied (120 mg to 360 mg). In subjects with 
multiple sclerosis, two 240 mg doses were administered 4 hours apart as part of a three times a day 
dosing regimen. This resulted in a minimal accumulation of exposure yielding an increase in the 
median Cmax of 12% compared to the twice daily dosing (1.72 mg/l for twice daily compared to 
1.93 mg/l for three times daily) with no safety implications. 
Orally administered dimethyl fumarate undergoes rapid presystemic hydrolysis by esterases and is 
converted to its primary metabolite, monomethyl fumarate, which is also active. Dimethyl fumarate is 
not quantifiable in plasma following oral administration of dimethyl fumarate. Therefore, all 
pharmacokinetic analyses related to dimethyl fumarate were performed with plasma monomethyl 
fumarate concentrations. Pharmacokinetic data were obtained in subjects with multiple sclerosis and 
healthy volunteers. 
Food does not have a clinically significant effect on exposure of dimethyl fumarate. However, 
dimethyl fumarate should be taken with food due to improved tolerability with respect to flushing or 
gastrointestinal adverse events (see section 4.2). 
Distribution 
Absorption 
The apparent volume of distribution following oral administration of 240 mg dimethyl fumarate varies 
between 60 L and 90 L. Human plasma protein binding of monomethyl fumarate generally ranges 
between 27% and 40%. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biotransformation 
Linearity 
Elimination 
Dimethyl fumarate exposure increases in an approximately dose proportional manner with single and 
multiple doses in the 120 mg to 360 mg dose range studied. 
Exhalation of CO2 is the primary route of dimethyl fumarate elimination accounting for 60% of the 
dose. Renal and faecal elimination are secondary routes of elimination, accounting for 15.5% and 
0.9% of the dose respectively. 
The terminal half-life of monomethyl fumarate is short (approximately 1 hour) and no circulating 
monomethyl fumarate is present at 24 hours in the majority of individuals. Accumulation of parent 
drug or monomethyl fumarate does not occur with multiple doses of dimethyl fumarate at the 
therapeutic regimen. 
In humans, dimethyl fumarate is extensively metabolised with less than 0.1% of the dose excreted as 
unchanged dimethyl fumarate in urine. It is initially metabolised by esterases, which are ubiquitous in 
the gastrointestinal tract, blood and tissues, before it reaches the systemic circulation. Further 
metabolism occurs through the tricarboxylic acid cycle, with no involvement of the cytochrome P450 
(CYP) system. A single 240 mg 14C-dimethyl fumarate dose study identified glucose as the 
predominant metabolite in human plasma. Other circulating metabolites included fumaric acid, citric 
acid and monomethyl fumarate. The downstream metabolism of fumaric acid occurs through the 
tricarboxylic acid cycle, with exhalation of CO2 serving as a primary route of elimination. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetic profile of 240 mg dimethyl fumarate twice a day was evaluated in a small, 
open-label, uncontrolled study in patients with RRMS aged 13 to 17 years (n=21). The 
pharmacokinetics of dimethyl fumarate in these adolescent patients was consistent with that previously 
observed in adult patients (Cmax: 2.00±1.29 mg/l; AUC0-12hr: 3.62±1.16 h.mg/l, which corresponds to 
an overall daily AUC of 7.24 h.mg/l). 
Renal impairment 
Since the renal pathway is a secondary route of elimination for dimethyl fumarate accounting for less 
than 16% of the dose administered, evaluation of pharmacokinetics in individuals with renal 
impairment was not conducted. 
Based on the results of Analysis of Variance (ANOVA), body weight is the main covariate of 
exposure (by Cmax and AUC) in RRMS subjects, but did not affect safety and efficacy measures 
evaluated in the clinical studies. 
Hepatic impairment 
As dimethyl fumarate and monomethyl fumarate are metabolised by esterases, without the 
involvement of the CYP450 system, evaluation of pharmacokinetics in individuals with hepatic 
impairment was not conducted. 
Gender and age did not have a clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetics of dimethyl 
fumarate. The pharmacokinetics in patients aged 65 and over has not been studied. 
Pharmacokinetics in special patient groups 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
The adverse reactions described in the Toxicology and Reproduction toxicity sections below were not 
observed in clinical studies, but were seen in animals at exposure levels similar to clinical exposure 
levels. 
Mutagenesis 
Carcinogenesis 
Dimethyl fumarate and mono-methylfumarate were negative in a battery of in vitro assays (Ames, 
chromosomal aberration in mammalian cells). Dimethyl fumarate was negative in the in vivo 
micronucleus assay in the rat. 
Carcinogenicity studies of dimethyl fumarate were conducted for up to 2 years in mice and rats. 
Dimethyl fumarate was administered orally at doses of 25, 75, 200 and 400 mg/kg/day in mice, and at 
doses of 25, 50, 100, and 150 mg/kg/day in rats.  
The incidence of squamous cell papilloma and carcinoma in the nonglandular stomach (forestomach) 
was increased at equivalent exposure to the recommended human dose in mice and below exposure to 
the recommended human dose in rats (based on AUC). The forestomach in rodents does not have a 
human counterpart. 
In mice, the incidence of renal tubular carcinoma was increased at 75 mg/kg/day, at equivalent 
exposure (AUC) to the recommended human dose. In rats, the incidence of renal tubular carcinoma 
and testicular Leydig cell adenoma was increased at 100 mg/kg/day, approximately 2 times higher 
exposure than the recommended human dose. The relevance of these findings to human risk is 
unknown. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Kidney changes were observed after repeated oral administration of dimethyl fumarate in mice, rats, 
dogs, and monkeys. Renal tubule epithelial regeneration, suggestive of injury, was observed in all 
species. Renal tubular hyperplasia was observed in rats with life time dosing (2 year study). In dogs 
that received daily oral doses of dimethyl fumarate for 11 months, the margin calculated for cortical 
atrophy was observed at 3 times the recommended dose based on AUC. In monkeys that received 
daily oral doses of dimethyl fumarate for 12 months, single cell necrosis was observed at 2 times the 
recommended dose based on AUC. Interstitial fibrosis and cortical atrophy were observed at 6 times 
the recommended dose based on AUC. The relevance of these findings to humans is not known. 
Nonclinical studies in rodent, rabbits, and monkeys were conducted with a dimethyl fumarate 
suspension (dimethyl fumarate in 0.8% hydroxypropyl methylcellulose) administered by oral gavage. 
The chronic dog study was conducted with oral administration of the dimethyl fumarate capsule. 
Findings in the forestomach of mice and rats consisted of squamous epithelial hyperplasia and 
hyperkeratosis; inflammation; and squamous cell papilloma and carcinoma in studies of 3 months or 
longer in duration. The forestomach of mice and rats does not have a human counterpart. 
In the testes, degeneration of the seminiferous epithelium was seen in rats and dogs. The findings were 
observed at approximately the recommended dose in rats and 3 times the recommended dose in dogs 
(AUC basis). The relevance of these findings to humans is not known. 
Toxicology 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reproduction toxicity 
Oral administration of dimethyl fumarate to male rats at 75, 250, and 375 mg/kg/day prior to and 
during mating had no effects on male fertility up to the highest dose tested (at least 2 times the 
recommended dose on an AUC basis). Oral administration of dimethyl fumarate to female rats at 25, 
100, and 250 mg/kg/day prior to and during mating, and continuing to Day 7 of gestation, induced 
reduction in the number of estrous stages per 14 days and increased the number of animals with 
prolonged diestrus at the highest dose tested (11 times the recommended dose on an AUC basis). 
However, these changes did not affect fertility or the number of viable fetuses produced. 
Oral administration of dimethyl fumarate at 25, 75, and 150 mg/kg/day to pregnant rabbits during 
organogenesis had no effect on embryo-fetal development and resulted in reduced maternal body 
weight at 7 times the recommended dose and increased abortion at 16 times the recommended dose, on 
an AUC basis. 
Oral administration of dimethyl fumarate at 25, 100, and 250 mg/kg/day to rats during pregnancy and 
lactation resulted in lower body weights in the F1 offspring, and delays in sexual maturation in F1 
males at 11 times the recommended dose on an AUC basis. There were no effects on fertility in the F1 
offspring. The lower offspring body weight was considered secondary to maternal toxicity. 
Dimethyl fumarate has been shown to cross the placental membrane into fetal blood in rats and 
rabbits, with ratios of fetal to maternal plasma concentrations of 0.48 to 0.64 and 0.1 respectively. No 
malformations were observed at any dose of dimethyl fumarate in rats or rabbits. Administration of 
dimethyl fumarate at oral doses of 25, 100, and 250 mg/kg/day to pregnant rats during the period of 
organogenesis resulted in maternal adverse effects at 4 times the recommended dose on an AUC basis, 
and low fetal weight and delayed ossification (metatarsals and hindlimb phalanges) at 11 times the 
recommended dose on an AUC basis. The lower fetal weight and delayed ossification were considered 
secondary to maternal toxicity (reduced body weight and food consumption). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Two toxicity studies in juvenile rats with daily oral administration of dimethyl fumarate from postnatal 
day (PND) 28 through PND 90 to 93 (equivalent to approximately 3 years and older in humans) 
revealed similar target organ toxicities in the kidney and forestomach as observed in adult animals. In 
the firsts tudy, dimethyl fumarate did not affect development, neurobehavior or male and female 
fertility up to the highest dose of 140 mg/kg/day (approximately 4.6 times the recommended human 
dose based on limited AUC data in paediatric patients). Likewise, no effects on male reproductive and 
accessory organs were observed up to the highest dimethyl fumarate dose of 375 mg/kg/day in the 
second study in male juvenile rats (about 15 times the putative AUC at the recommended paediatric 
dose). However, decreased bone mineral content and density in the femur and lumbar vertebrae were 
evident in male juvenile rats. Bone densitometry changes were also observed in juvenile rats following 
oral diroximel fumarate administration, another fumaric ester that is metabolised to the same active 
metabolite monomethyl fumarate in vivo. The NOAEL for the densitometry changes in juvenile rats is 
approximately 1.5 times the presumptive AUC at the recommended paediatric dose. A relation of the 
bone effects to lower body weight is possible, but the involvement of a direct effect cannot be 
excluded. The bone findings are of limited relevance for adult patients. The relevance for paediatric 
patients is not known. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
6. 
Capsule contents (enteric-coated mini tablets) 
Silicified microcrystalline cellulose 
Talc 
Croscarmellose sodium 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Silica, colloidal anhydrous  
Magnesium stearate 
Methacrylic acid-methyl methacrylate copolymer (1:1) 
Triethyl citrate 
Methacrylic acid - ethyl acrylate copolymer (1:1) dispersion 30% 
6.2 
3 years  
Capsule shell 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Incompatibilities 
Capsule print (black ink) 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Shellac (E904) 
Iron oxide black (E172) 
Potassium hydroxide (E525) 
Gelatin 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Brilliant blue FCF (E133) 
Iron oxide black (E172)  
Iron oxide yellow (E172) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
120 mg capsules: 14 capsules in PVC/PE/PVDC-Alu blister packs. 
240 mg capsules: 56 or 168 capsules in PVC/PE/PVDC-Alu blister packs. 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n, 
Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
08039 Barcelona, 
Spain 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EU/1/22/1711/001-003 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE 
AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
AUTHORISATION 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp. z.o.o. 
ul.Lutomierska 50, 
95-200, Pabianice, Poland 
AUTHORISATION 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
Accord Healthcare B.V. 
Winthontlaan 200,  
3526 KV Utrecht, Netherlands 
Pharmadox Healthcare Limited 
KW20A Kordin Industrial Park, 
Paola PLA 3000, Malta 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
  Risk management plan (RMP) 
 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
2. 
1. 
3. 
4. 
dimethyl fumarate 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Gastro-resistant hard capsule  
14 gastro-resistant hard capsules 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Each gastro-resistant hard capsule contains 120 mg dimethyl fumarate 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Swallow the capsule whole. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
7. 
8. 
6. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Lot 
EU/1/22/1711/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n, 
Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
08039 Barcelona, 
Spain 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 120 mg 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
PC 
SN 
NN 
15. 
16. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
PVC/PE/PVDC-ALU BLISTER 
3. 
1. 
2. 
EXP 
Accord 
4. 
Lot 
dimethyl fumarate 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 120 mg gastro-resistant capsules 
EXPIRY DATE 
BATCH NUMBER 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
OTHER 
5. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
4. 
3. 
2. 
dimethyl fumarate 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Gastro-resistant hard capsule  
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Each gastro-resistant hard capsule contains 240 mg dimethyl fumarate 
56 gastro-resistant hard capsules 
168 gastro-resistant hard capsules 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Swallow the capsule whole. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
8. 
7. 
6. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Lot 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
EU/1/22/1711/002 
EU/1/22/1711/003 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n, 
Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
08039 Barcelona, 
Spain 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 240 mg 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
PC 
SN 
NN 
15. 
16. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
PVC/PE/PVDC-ALU BLISTER 
1. 
2. 
3. 
EXP 
Accord 
4. 
Lot 
dimethyl fumarate 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 240 mg gastro-resistant capsules 
EXPIRY DATE 
BATCH NUMBER 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
OTHER 
5. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
dimethyl fumarate 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
What Dimethyl fumarate Accord is 
1.  What Dimethyl fumarate Accord is and what it is used for 
How to take Dimethyl fumarate Accord 
Possible side effects 
How to store Dimethyl fumarate Accord 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Dimethyl fumarate Accord is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Dimethyl fumarate Accord 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Dimethyl fumarate Accord is used to treat relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) in patients 
aged 13 years and older. 
MS is a long-term condition that affects the central nervous system (CNS), including the brain and the 
spinal cord. Relapsing-remitting MS is characterised by repeated attacks (relapses) of nervous system 
symptoms. Symptoms vary from patient to patient, but typically include walking difficulties, feeling 
off balance and visual difficulties (e.g. blurred or double vision). These symptoms may disappear 
completely when the relapse is over, but some problems may remain. 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord seems to work by stopping the body’s defence system from damaging your 
brain and spinal cord. This may also help to delay future worsening of your MS. 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord is a medicine that contains the active substance dimethyl fumarate. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Dimethyl fumarate Accord 
What Dimethyl fumarate Accord is used for 
Do not take Dimethyl fumarate Accord 
How Dimethyl fumarate Accord works 
- 
- 
If you are allergic to dimethyl fumarate or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed 
in section 6). 
If you are suspected to suffer from a rare brain infection called progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML) or if PML has been confirmed. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord may affect your white blood cell counts, your kidneys and liver. Before 
you start Dimethyl fumarate Accord,  your doctor will do a blood test to count the number of your 
white blood cells and will check that your kidneys and liver are working properly. Your doctor will test 
these periodically during 
your doctor may consider  additional analytic measures or discontinue your treatment. 
treatment. If your number of white blood cells decreases during treatment, 
severe kidney disease 
severe liver disease 
a disease of the stomach or bowel 
a serious infection (such as pneumonia) 
Herpes zoster (shingles) may occur with Dimethyl fumarate Accord treatment. In some cases, serious 
complications have occurred. You should inform your doctor immediately if you suspect you have 
any symptoms of shingles. 
Talk to your doctor before taking Dimethyl fumarate Accord if you have: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If you believe your MS is getting worse (e.g. weakness or visual changes) or if you notice any new 
symptoms, talk to your doctor straight away because these may be the symptoms of a rare brain 
infection called progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). PML is a serious condition that 
may lead to severe disability or death. 
A rare but serious kidney disorder (Fanconi Syndrome) has been reported for a medicine containing 
dimethyl fumarate, in combination with other fumaric acid esters, used to treat psoriasis (a skin 
disease). If you notice you are passing more urine, are more thirsty and drinking more than normal, 
your muscles seem weaker, you break a bone, or just have aches and pains, talk to your doctor as soon 
as possible so that this can be investigated further. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
medicines that contain fumaric acid esters (fumarates) used to treat psoriasis 
medicines that affect the body’s immune system including other medicines used to treat 
MS, such as fingolimod, natalizumab, teriflunomide, alemtuzumab, ocrelizumab or cladribine, 
or some commonly used cancer treatments (rituximab or mitoxantrone). 
medicines that affect the kidneys including some antibiotics (used to treat infections), “water 
tablets” (diuretics), certain types of painkillers (such as ibuprofen and other similar 
anti-inflammatories and medicines purchased without a doctor’s prescription) and medicines 
that contain lithium 
Taking Dimethyl fumarate Accord with certain types of vaccines (live vaccines) may cause you 
to get an infection and should, therefore, be avoided. Your doctor will advise whether other 
types of vaccines (non-live vaccines) should be given. 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any medicines, in 
particular: 
- 
- 
The warnings and precautions listed above also apply to children. Dimethyl fumarate Accord can be 
used in children and adolescents aged 13 years and above. No data are available in children below 
10 years of age. 
Other medicines and Dimethyl fumarate Accord 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord with alcohol 
Children and adolescents 
- 
- 
Consumption of more than a small quantity (more than 50 ml) of strong alcoholic drinks (more than 
30% alcohol by volume, e.g. spirits) should be avoided within an hour of taking Dimethyl fumarate 
Accord, as alcohol  can interact with this medicine. This could cause inflammation of the stomach 
(gastritis), especially in  people already prone to gastritis. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Pregnancy 
3. 
Breast-feeding 
Driving and using machines 
How to take Dimethyl fumarate Accord 
The effect of Dimethyl fumarate Accord on the ability to drive or use machines is not known. 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord is not expected to affect your ability to drive and use machines. 
Do not use Dimethyl fumarate Accord if you are pregnant unless you have discussed this with your 
doctor. 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure. 
It is not known whether the active substance of Dimethyl fumarate Accord passes into breast milk. 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord should not be used during breast-feeding. Your doctor will help you decide 
whether you should stop breast-feeding, or stop using Dimethyl fumarate Accord. This involves 
balancing the benefit of breast-feeding for your child, and the benefit of therapy for you. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Take Dimethyl fumarate Accord with food – it may help to reduce some of the very common side 
effects (listed in section 4). 
If you have taken too many capsules, talk to your doctor straight away. You may experience side 
effects similar to those described below in section 4. 
Swallow each capsule whole, with some water. Do not divide, crush, dissolve, suck or chew the 
capsule as this may increase some side effects. 
120 mg twice a day. 
Take this starting dose for the first 7 days, then take the regular dose. 
If you take more Dimethyl fumarate Accord than you should 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord is for oral use 
If you forget to take Dimethyl fumarate Accord 
240 mg twice a day. 
Starting dose 
Regular dose 
If you forget or miss a dose, do not take a double dose. 
You may take the missed dose if you leave at least 4 hours between the doses. Otherwise wait until 
your next planned dose. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Serious side effects 
Severe Allergic reactions 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
  Call your doctor straight away if you experience any of these symptoms 
The symptoms of PML may be similar to an MS relapse. Symptoms may include new or worsening 
weakness on one side of the body; clumsiness; changes in vision, thinking, or memory; or confusion or 
personality changes, or speech and communication difficulties lasting for more than several days. 
Therefore, if you believe your MS is getting worse or if you notice any new symptoms while you are 
on Dimethyl fumarate Accord treatment, it is very important that you speak to your doctor as soon as 
possible. Also speak with your partner or caregivers and inform them about your treatment. Symptoms 
might arise that you might not become aware of by yourself. 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord may lower lymphocyte counts (a type of white blood cell). Having a low 
white blood cell count can increase your risk of infection, including the risk of a rare brain infection 
called progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). PML may lead to severe disability or 
death. PML has occurred after 1 to 5 years of treatment and so your physician should continue to 
monitor your white blood cells throughout your treatment, and you should remain observant of any 
potential symptoms of PML as described below. The risk of PML may be higher if you have 
previously taken a medicine impairing the functionality of your body’s immune system. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
reddening of the face or body feeling warm, hot, burning or itchy (flushing) 
loose stools (diarrhoea) 
feeling sick (nausea) 
stomach pain or stomach cramps 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
swelling of the face, lips, mouth or tongue (angioedema) 
wheezing, difficulty breathing or shortness of breath (dyspnoea, hypoxia) 
dizziness or loss of consciousness (hypotension) 
Reddening of the face or body (flushing) is a very common side effect. However, should flushing be 
accompanied by a red rash or hives and you get any of these symptoms: 
The frequency of severe allergic reactions cannot be estimated from the available data (not known). 
Taking your medicine with food can help to reduce the side effects above 
Stop taking Dimethyl fumarate Accord and call a doctor straight away 
then this may represent a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) 
Other side effects  
- 
- 
- 
 
 
Substances called ketones, which are naturally produced in the body, very commonly show up in urine 
tests while taking Dimethyl fumarate Accord. 
Talk to your doctor about how to manage these side effects. Your doctor may reduce your dose. Do 
not reduce your dose unless your doctor tells you to. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
Side effects which may show up in your blood or urine tests 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
Allergic reactions (hypersensitivity) 
- 
reduction in blood platelets 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
inflammation of the lining of the intestines (gastroenteritis) 
being sick (vomiting) 
indigestion (dyspepsia) 
inflammation of the lining of the stomach (gastritis) 
gastrointestinal disorder 
burning sensation 
hot flush, feeling hot 
itchy skin (pruritus) 
rash 
pink or red blotches on the skin (erythema) 
hair loss (alopecia) 
low levels of white blood cells (lymphopenia, leucopenia) in the blood. Reduced white 
blood cells could mean your body is less able to fight an infection. If you have a serious 
infection (such as pneumonia), talk to your doctor immediately 
proteins (albumin) in urine 
increase in levels of liver enzymes (ALT, AST) in the blood 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
liver inflammation and increase in levels of liver enzymes (ALT or AST in combination with 
bilirubin) 
herpes zoster (shingles) with symptoms such as blisters, burning, itching or pain of the skin, 
typically on one side of the upper body or the face, and other symptoms, like fever and 
weakness in the early stages of infection, followed by numbness, itching or red patches with 
severe pain 
runny nose (rhinorrhoea) 
Children (13 years of age and above) and adolescents 
The side effects listed above also apply to children and adolescents. 
Some side effects were reported more frequently in children and adolescents than in adults, e.g, 
headache, stomach pain or stomach cramps, being sick (vomiting), throat pain, cough, and painful 
menstrual periods. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
How to store Dimethyl fumarate Accord 
5. 
- 
- 
- 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on each blister after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
The other ingredients are: 
What Dimethyl fumarate Accord contains 
What Dimethyl fumarate Accord looks like and contents of the pack 
Capsule print (black ink): Shellac (E904), Iron oxide black (E172), Potassium hydroxide (E525). 
Capsule shell: Gelatin, Titanium dioxide (E171), Brilliant blue FCF (E133), Iron oxide black (E172), 
Iron oxide yellow (E172). 
The active substance is dimethyl fumarate. 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 120 mg: Each capsule contains 120 mg of dimethyl fumarate. 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 240 mg: Each capsule contains 240 mg of dimethyl fumarate. 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules are size “0” 
(approximate 21.3 x 7.5 mm) hard gelatin capsules with green cap and white body, printed with 
“HR1” in black ink on capsule body containing white to off-white, round, biconvex enteric coated 
mini tablets plain on both the sides. 
- 
Capsule contents (enteric-coated mini tablets): Silicified microcrystalline cellulose, Talc, 
Croscarmellose sodium, Silica, colloidal anhydrous, Magnesium stearate, Methacrylic acid-methyl 
methacrylate copolymer (1:1), Triethyl citrate, Methacrylic acid - ethyl acrylate copolymer (1:1) 
dispersion 30 per cent. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules are size “0” 
(approximate 21.3 x 7.5 mm) hard gelatin capsules with green cap and body, printed with “HR2” in 
black ink on capsule body containing white to off-white, round, biconvex enteric coated mini tablets 
plain on both the sides. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U. 
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n, 
Edifici Est, 6a Planta, 
08039 Barcelona, 
Spain 
Manufacturer 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp. z.o.o. 
ul.Lutomierska 50, 
95-200, Pabianice, Poland 
120 mg capsules: 14 capsules in PVC/PE/PVDC-Alu blister packs. 
240 mg capsules: 56 or 168 capsules in PVC/PE/PVDC-Alu blister packs 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Pharmadox Healthcare Limited 
KW20A Kordin Industrial Park, 
Paola PLA 3000, Malta 
Accord Healthcare B.V. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Winthontlaan 200,  
3526 KV Utrecht, Netherlands 
This leaflet was last revised in. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
40 
 
 
 
