ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
2. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
Gastro-resistant hard capsule (gastro-resistant capsule) 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Each gastro-resistant hard capsule contains 120 mg dimethyl fumarate 
Each gastro-resistant hard capsule contains 240 mg dimethyl fumarate 
Blue-green and white gastro-resistant hard capsules, 21.7 mm in length, printed with ‘MYLAN’ over 
‘DF 120’ containing white to off-white enteric coated pellets. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Treatment should be initiated under supervision of a physician experienced in the treatment of 
multiple sclerosis.  
The starting dose is 120 mg twice a day. After 7 days, the dose should be increased to the 
recommended maintenance dose of 240 mg twice a day (see section 4.4). 
Blue-green gastro-resistant hard capsules, 21.7 mm in length, printed with ‘MYLAN’ over ‘DF 240’ 
containing white to off-white enteric coated pellets. 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan is indicated for the treatment of adult and paediatric patients aged 13 years 
and older with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
Posology 
4. 
If a patient misses a dose, a double dose should not be taken. The patient may take the missed dose 
only if they leave 4 hours between doses. Otherwise the patient should wait until the next scheduled 
dose. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Temporary dose reduction to 120 mg twice a day may reduce the occurrence of flushing and 
gastrointestinal adverse reactions. Within 1 month, the recommended maintenance dose of 240 mg 
twice a day should be resumed. 
Special populations 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan should be taken with food (see section 5.2). For those patients who may 
experience flushing or gastrointestinal adverse reactions, taking Dimethyl fumarate Mylan with food 
may improve tolerability (see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 4.8). 
Paediatric population  
The posology is the same in adults and in paediatric patients aged 13 years and older. Currently 
available data are described in sections 4.4, 4.8, 5.1, and 5.2. 
There are limited data available in children between 10 and 12 years old. 
The safety and efficacy of dimethyl fumarate in children aged less than 10 years have not yet been 
established.  
Renal and hepatic impairment  
Dimethyl fumarate has not been studied in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. Based on clinical 
pharmacology studies, no dose adjustments are needed (see section 5.2). Caution should be used when 
treating patients with severe renal or severe hepatic impairment (see section 4.4). 
Elderly 
Clinical studies of dimethyl fumarate had limited exposure to patients aged 55 years and above and did 
not include sufficient numbers of patients aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond 
differently than younger patients (see section 5.2). Based on the mode of action of the active substance 
there are no theoretical reasons for any requirement for dose adjustments in the elderly. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Changes in renal laboratory tests have been seen in clinical trials in patientstreated with dimethyl 
fumarate (see section 4.8). The clinical implications of these changes are unknown. Assessment of 
renal function (e.g. creatinine, blood urea nitrogen and urinalysis) is recommended prior to treatment 
initiation, after 3 and 6 months of treatment, every 6 to 12 months thereafter and as clinically 
indicated. 
The capsule should be swallowed whole. The capsule or its contents should not be crushed, divided, 
dissolved, sucked or chewed as the enteric coating of the pellets prevents irritant effects on the gut.  
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Suspected or confirmed Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Method of administration  
4.3  Contraindications 
Blood/laboratory tests  
For oral use. 
Drug-induced liver injury, including liver enzyme increase (≥ 3 upper limit of normal (ULN)) and 
elevation of total bilirubin levels (≥2 ULN) can result from treatment with dimethyl fumarate. The 
time to onset can be directly, several weeks or longer. Resolution of the adverse reactions has been 
observed after treatment was discontinued. Assessment of serum aminotransferases (e.g. alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST)) and total bilirubin levels are 
recommended prior to treatment initiation and during treatment as clinically indicated. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients treated with dimethyl fumarate may develop lymphopenia (see section 4.8). Prior to initiating 
treatment with dimethyl fumarate, a current complete blood count, including lymphocytes, must be 
performed. 
Dimethyl fumarate should be discontinuedin patients with prolonged severe lymphopenia 
(lymphocyte counts <0.5 x 109/L) persisting for more than 6 months. 
After starting therapy, complete blood counts, including lymphocytes, must be performed every 
3 months. 
Enhanced vigilance due to an increased risk for Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
is recommended in patients with lymphopenia as follows:  
In patients with sustained moderate reductions of absolute lymphocyte counts ≥0.5 x 109/L 
to< 0.8 x 109/L for more than 6 months, the benefit/risk of dimethyl fumarate treatment should 
be re-assessed. 
In patients with lymphocyte counts below lower limit of normal (LLN) as defined by local 
laboratory reference range, regular monitoring of absolute lymphocyte counts is recommended. 
Additional factors that might further augment the individual PML risk should be considered (see 
subsection on PML below). 
If lymphocyte count is found to be below the normal range, thorough assessment of possible causes 
should be completed prior to initiation of treatment with dimethyl fumarate. Dimethyl fumarate has 
not been studied in patients with pre-existing low lymphocyte counts and caution should be exercised 
when treating these patients. Dimethyl fumarate should not be initiated in patients with severe 
lymphopenia (lymphocyte counts <0.5 x 109/L). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Before initiating treatment with dimethyl fumarate, a baseline MRI should be available (usually within 
3 months) as a reference. The need for further MRI scanning should be considered in accordance with 
national and local recommendations. MRI imaging may be considered as part of increased vigilance in 
patients considered at increased risk of PML. In case of clinical suspicion of PML, MRI should be 
performed immediately for diagnostic purposes. 
PML cases have occurred with dimethyl fumarate and other medicinal products containing fumarates 
in the setting of lymphopenia (lymphocyte counts below LLN). Prolonged moderate to severe 
lymphopenia appears to increase the risk of PML with dimethyl fumarate, however, risk cannot be 
excluded in patients with mild lymphopenia.  
Additional factors that might contribute to an increased risk for PML in the setting of lymphopenia 
are: 
• 
Lymphocyte counts should be followed until recovery (see section 5.1). Upon recovery and in the 
absence of alternative treatment options, decisions about whether or not to restart Dimethyl fumarate 
Mylan after treatment discontinuation should be based on clinical judgement. 
PML has been reported in patients treated with dimethyl fumarate (see section 4.8). PML is an 
opportunistic infection caused by John-Cunningham virus (JCV), which may be fatal or result in 
severe disability. 
duration of dimethyl fumarate therapy. Cases of PML have occurred after approximately1 to 
5 years of treatment, although the exact relationship with duration of treatment is unknown. 
profound decreases in CD4+ and especially in CD8+ T cell counts, which are important for 
immunological defence (see section 4.8), and 
Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
Magnetic Resonance imaging (MRI) 
• 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
prior immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory therapy (see below). 
Physicians should evaluate their patients to determine if the symptoms are indicative of neurological 
dysfunction and, if so, whether these symptoms are typical of MS or possibly suggestive of PML. 
Prior treatment with immunosuppressive or immunomodulating therapies 
If a patient develops PML, dimethyl fumarate must be permanently discontinued. 
PML can only occur in the presence of a JCV infection. It should be considered that the influence of 
lymphopenia on the accuracy of serum anti-JCV antibody testing has not been studied in dimethyl 
fumarate treated patients. It should also be noted that a negative anti-JCV antibody test (in the 
presence of normal lymphocyte counts) does not preclude the possibility of subsequent JCV infection.  
No studies have been performed evaluating the efficacy and safety of dimethyl fumarate when 
switching patients from other disease modifying therapies to dimethyl fumarate. The contribution of 
prior immunosuppressive therapy to the development of PML in dimethyl fumarate treated patients is 
possible.  
At the first sign or symptom suggestive of PML, dimethyl fumarate should be withheld and 
appropriate diagnostic evaluations, including determination of JCV DNA in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 
by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) methodology, need to be performed. The symptoms 
of PML may be similar to an MS relapse. Typical symptoms associated with PML are diverse, 
progress over days to weeks, and include progressive weakness on one side of the body or clumsiness 
of limbs, disturbance of vision, and changes in thinking, memory, and orientation leading to confusion 
and personality changes. Physicians should be particularly alert to symptoms suggestive of PML that 
the patient may not notice. Patients should also be advised to inform their partner or caregivers about 
their treatment, since they may notice symptoms that the patient is not aware of.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
When switching patients from another disease modifying therapy to dimethyl fumarate, the half-life 
and mode of action of the other therapy should be considered in order to avoid an additive immune 
effect while at the same time, reducing the risk of reactivation of MS.A complete blood count is 
recommended prior to initiating dimethyl fumarate and regularly during treatment (see 
Blood/laboratory tests above). 
PML cases have occurred in patients who had previously been treated with natalizumab, for which 
PML is an established risk. Physicians should be aware that cases of PML occurring following recent 
discontinuation of natalizumab may not have lymphopenia. 
Dimethyl fumarate has not been studied in patients with severe renal or severe hepatic impairment and 
caution should, therefore, be used in these patients (see section 4.2). 
In addition, a majority of confirmed PML cases with dimethyl fumarate occurred in patients with prior 
immunomodulatory treatment. 
Dimethyl fumarate has not been studied in patients with severe active gastrointestinal disease and 
caution should, therefore, be used in these patients. 
Severe active gastrointestinal disease 
Severe renal and hepatic impairment 
Flushing 
In clinical trials, 34% of dimethyl fumarate treated patients experienced flushing. In the majority of 
patients who experienced flushing, it was mild or moderate in severity. Data from healthy volunteer 
studies suggest that dimethyl fumarate-associated flushing is likely to be prostaglandin mediated. A 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
short course of treatment with 75 mg non-enteric coated acetylsalicylic acid may be beneficial in 
patients affected by intolerable flushing (see section 4.5). In two healthy volunteer studies, the 
occurrence and severity of flushing over the dosing period was reduced.  
Infections 
Anaphylactic reactions 
In clinical trials, 3 patients out of a total of 2,560 patients treated with dimethyl fumarate experienced 
serious flushing symptoms that were probable hypersensitivity or anaphylactoid reactions. These 
events were not life-threatening, but led to hospitalisation. Prescribers and patients should be alert to 
this possibility in the event of severe flushing reactions (see sections 4.2, 4.5 and 4.8). 
Cases of anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reaction have been reported following dimethyl fumarate 
administration in the post-marketing setting. Symptoms may include dyspnoea, hypoxia, hypotension, 
angioedema, rash or urticaria. The mechanism of dimethyl fumarate induced anaphylaxis is unknown. 
Reactions generally occur after the first dose, but may also occur at any time during treatment, and 
may be serious and life threatening. Patients should be instructed to discontinue dimethyl fumarate and 
seek immediate medical care if they experience signs or symptoms of anaphylaxis. Treatment should 
not be restarted (see section 4.8). 
In phase III placebo-controlled studies, the incidence of infections (60% vs 58%) and serious 
infections (2% vs 2%) was similar in patients treated with dimethyl fumarate or placebo, respectively. 
However, due to dimethyl fumarate immunomodulatory properties (see section 5.1), if a patient 
develops a serious infection, suspending treatment with Dimethyl fumarate Mylan should be 
considered and the benefits and risks should be reassessed prior to re-initiation of therapy. Patients 
receiving Dimethyl fumarate Mylan should be instructed to report symptoms of infections to a 
physician. Patients with serious infections should not start treatment with Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 
until the infection(s) is resolved.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Cases of herpes zoster have occurred with dimethyl fumarate. The majority of cases were non-serious, 
however, serious cases, including disseminated herpes zoster, herpes zoster ophthalmicus, herpes 
zoster oticus, herpes zoster infection neurological, herpes zoster meningoencephalitis and herpes 
zoster meningomyelitis have been reported. These events may occur at any time during treatment. 
Monitor patients taking Dimethyl fumarate Mylan for signs and symptoms of herpes zoster especially 
when concurrent lymphocytopenia is reported. If herpes zoster occurs, appropriate treatment for 
herpes zoster should be administered. Consider withholding Dimethyl fumarate Mylan treatment in 
patients with serious infections until the infection has resolved (see section 4.8). 
There was no increased incidence of serious infections observed in patients with lymphocyte counts 
<0.8 x 109/L or <0.5 x109/L (see Section 4.8). If therapy is continued in the presence of moderate to 
severe prolonged lymphopenia, the risk of an opportunistic infection, including PML, cannot be ruled 
out (see section 4.4 subsection PML). 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan treatment should be started gradually to reduce the occurrence of flushing 
and gastrointestinal adverse reactions (see section 4.2). 
Herpes zoster infections 
Treatment initiation 
Fanconi syndrome 
Cases of Fanconi syndrome have been reported for a medicinal product containing dimethyl fumarate 
in combination with other fumaric acid esters. Early diagnosis of Fanconi syndrome and 
discontinuation of dimethyl fumarate treatment are important to prevent the onset of renal impairment 
and osteomalacia, as the syndrome is usually reversible. The most important signs are: proteinuria, 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5 
Sodium content 
Paediatric population 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
The long-term safety of Dimethyl fumarate in paediatric population has not yet been established. 
glucosuria (with normal blood sugar levels), hyperaminoaciduria and phosphaturia (possibly 
concurrent with hypophosphatemia). Progression might involve symptoms such as polyuria, 
polydipsia and proximal muscle weakness. In rare cases hypophosphataemic osteomalacia with non-
localised bone pain, elevated alkaline phosphatase in serum and stress fractures may occur. 
Importantly, Fanconi syndrome can occur without elevated creatinine levels or low glomerular 
filtration rate. In case of unclear symptoms Fanconi syndrome should be considered and appropriate 
examinations should be performed. 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
The safety profile is qualitatively similar in paediatric patients compared to adults and therefore the 
warnings and precautions also apply to the paediatric patients. For quantitative differences in the 
safety profile see section 4.8.  
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan has not been studied in combination with anti-neoplastic or 
immunosuppressive therapies and caution should, therefore, be used during concomitant 
administration. In multiple sclerosis clinical studies, the concomitant treatment of relapses with a short 
course of intravenous corticosteroids was not associated with a clinically relevant increase of 
infection.  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Concomitant administration of non-live vaccines according to national vaccination schedules may be 
considered during Dimethyl fumarate Mylan therapy. In a clinical study involving a total of 71 
patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis, patients on dimethyl fumarate 240 mg twice daily 
for at least 6 months (n = 38) or non-pegylated interferon for at least 3 months (n = 33), mounted a 
comparable immune response (defined as ≥ 2-fold increase from pre- to post-vaccination titer) to 
tetanus toxoid (recall antigen) and a conjugated meningococcal C polysaccharide vaccine 
(neoantigen), while the immune response to different serotypes of an unconjugated 23-valent 
pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (T-cell independent antigen) varied in both treatment groups. A 
positive immune response defined as a ≥4 fold increase in antibody titer to the three vaccines, was 
achieved by fewer subjects in both treatment groups. Small numerical differences in the response to 
tetanus toxoid and pneumococcal serotype 3 polysaccharide were noted in favour of non-pegylated 
interferon. 
No clinical data are available on the efficacy and safety of live attenuated vaccines in patients taking 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan. Live vaccines might carry an increased risk of clinical infection and should 
not be given to patients treated with Dimethyl fumarate Mylan unless, in exceptional cases, this 
potential risk is considered to be outweighed by the risk to the individual of not vaccinating.  
During treatment with Dimethyl fumarate Mylan, simultaneous use of other fumaric acid derivatives 
(topical or systemic) should be avoided.  
In humans, dimethyl fumarate is extensively metabolised by esterases before it reaches the systemic 
circulation and further metabolism occurs through the tricarboxylic acid cycle, with no involvement of 
the cytochrome P450 (CYP) system. Potential drug interaction risks were not identified from in vitro 
CYP-inhibition and induction studies, a p-glycoprotein study, or studies of the protein binding of 
dimethyl fumarate and monomethyl fumarate (a primary metabolite of dimethyl fumarate). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commonly used medicinal products in patients with multiple sclerosis, intramuscular interferon beta-
1a and glatiramer acetate, were clinically tested for potential interactions with dimethyl fumarate and 
did not alter the pharmacokinetic profile of dimethyl fumarate.  
Concurrent therapy with nephrotoxic medicinal products (such as aminoglycosides, diuretics, non-
steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or lithium) may increase the potential of renal adverse reactions 
(e.g. proteinuria see section 4.8) in patients taking Dimethyl fumarate Mylan (see section 4.4 
Blood/laboratory tests).  
Consumption of moderate amounts of alcohol did not alter exposure to dimethyl fumarate and was not 
associated with an increase in adverse reactions. Consumption of large quantities of strong alcoholic 
drinks (more than 30% alcohol by volume) should be avoided within an hour of taking Dimethyl 
fumarate Mylan, as alcohol may lead to increased frequency of gastrointestinal adverse reactions.  
Evidence from healthy volunteer studies suggests that dimethyl fumarate-associated flushing is likely 
to be prostaglandin mediated. In two healthy volunteer studies, the administration of 325 mg (or 
equivalent) non-enteric coated acetylsalicylic acid, 30 minutes prior to dimethyl fumarate, dosing over 
4 days and over 4 weeks, respectively, did not alter the pharmacokinetic profile of dimethyl fumarate. 
Potential risks associated with acetylsalicylic acid therapy should be considered prior to co-
administration with Dimethyl fumarate Mylan in patients with Relapsing Remitting MS. Long term 
(> 4 weeks) continuous use of acetylsalicylic acid has not been studied (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
In vitro CYP induction studies did not demonstrate an interaction between dimethyl fumarate and oral 
contraceptives. In an in vivo study, co-administration of dimethyl fumarate with a combined oral 
contraceptive (norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol) did not elicit any relevant change in oral 
contraceptive exposure. No interaction studies have been performed with oral contraceptives 
containing other progestogens, however an effect of Dimethyl fumarate Mylan on their exposure is not 
expected. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of dimethyl fumarate in pregnant women. Animal 
studies have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Dimethyl fumarate Mylan is not 
recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using appropriate 
contraception (see section 4.5). Dimethyl fumarate Mylan should be used during pregnancy only if 
clearly needed and if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the foetus. 
It is unknown whether dimethyl fumarate or its metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to the 
newborns/infants cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding 
or to discontinue Dimethyl fumarate Mylan therapy. The benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the 
benefit of therapy for the woman should be taken into account. 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Paediatric population 
Breast-feeding 
Pregnancy 
Fertility 
There are no data on the effects of dimethyl fumarate on human fertility. Data from preclinical studies 
do not suggest that dimethyl fumarate would be associated with an increased risk of reduced fertility 
(see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. No 
studies on the ability to drive and use machines have been conducted but no effects potentially 
influencing this ability were found to be related to dimethyl fumarate in clinical studies. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile  
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions arising from clinical studies, post authorisation safety studies and spontaneous 
reports, are presented in the table below. 
In placebo-controlled and uncontrolled clinical studies, a total of 2,513 patients have received 
Dimethyl fumarate for periods up to 12 years with an overall exposure equivalent to 11,318 person-
years. A total of 1,169 patients have received at least 5 years of treatment with dimethyl fumarate, and 
426 patients have received at least 10 years of treatment with dimethyl fumarate. The experience in 
uncontrolled clinical trials is consistent with the experience in the placebo-controlled clinical trials. 
The most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥ 10%) for patients treated with dimethyl fumarate 
were flushing and gastrointestinal events (i.e. diarrhoea, nausea, abdominal pain, abdominal pain 
upper). Flushing and gastrointestinal events tend to begin early in the course of treatment (primarily 
during the first month) and in patients who experience flushing and gastrointestinal events, these 
events may continue to occur intermittently throughout treatment with Dimethyl fumarate Mylan. The 
most commonly reported adverse reactions leading to discontinuation (incidence > 1%) in patients 
treated with dimethyl fumarate were flushing (3%) and gastrointestinal events (4%).  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The adverse reactions are presented as MedDRA preferred terms under the MedDRA System Organ 
Class. The incidence of the adverse reactions below is expressed according to the following 
categories:  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Very common (≥1/10)  
Common (≥1/100 to<1/10)  
Uncommon (≥1/1,000 to<1/100)  
Rare (≥1/10,000 to<1/1,000)  
Very rare (<1/10,000)  
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data)  
MedDRA System Organ Class  
Infections and infestations 
Frequency category 
Common 
Not known 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Adverse reaction 
Gastroenteritis 
Progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
Herpes zoster 
Lymphopenia 
Leucopenia 
Thrombocytopenia 
Hypersensitivity 
Anaphylaxis 
Dyspnoea 
Hypoxia 
Hypotension 
Angioedema 
Burning sensation 
Flushing 
Hot flush 
Not known 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Nervous system disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Immune system disorders 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA System Organ Class  
Respiratory, 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
thoracic 
and 
Adverse reaction 
Rhinorrhoea 
Frequency category 
Not known 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Not known  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common 
Common  
Common  
Ketones measured in urine  
Albumin urine present  
White blood cell count decreased  
Renal and urinary disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Investigations 
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Very common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Common  
Diarrhoea  
Nausea  
Abdominal pain upper  
Abdominal pain  
Vomiting  
Dyspepsia  
Gastritis  
Gastrointestinal disorder  
Aspartate aminotransferase 
increased  
Alanine aminotransferase increased   Common  
Drug-induced liver injury 
Pruritus  
Rash  
Erythema  
Alopecia 
Proteinuria  
Feeling hot  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
In the placebo-controlled studies, the incidence of flushing (34% versus 4%) and hot flush (7% versus 
2%) was increased in patients treated with dimethyl fumarate compared to placebo, respectively. 
Flushing is usually described as flushing or hot flush, but can include other events (e.g. warmth, 
redness, itching, and burning sensation). Flushing events tend to begin early in the course of treatment 
(primarily during the first month) and in patients who experience flushing, these events may continue 
to occur intermittently throughout treatment with Dimethyl fumarate Mylan. In patients with flushing, 
the majority had flushing events that were mild or moderate in severity. Overall, 3% of patients treated 
with dimethyl fumarate discontinued due to flushing. The incidence of serious flushing, which may be 
characterised by generalised erythema, rash and/or pruritus, was seen in less than 1% of patients 
treated with dimethyl fumarate (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.5). 
The incidence of gastrointestinal events (e.g. diarrhoea [14% versus 10%], nausea [12% versus 9%], 
upper abdominal pain [10% versus 6%], abdominal pain [9% versus 4%], vomiting [8% versus 5%] 
and dyspepsia [5% versus 3%]) was increased in patients treated with dimethyl fumarate compared to 
placebo, respectively. Gastrointestinal events tend to begin early in the course of treatment (primarily 
during the first month) and in patients who experience gastrointestinal events, these events may 
continue to occur intermittently throughout treatment with dimethyl fumarate. In the majority of 
patients who experienced gastrointestinal events, it was mild or moderate in severity. Four per cent 
(4%) of patients treated with dimethyl fumarate discontinued due to gastrointestinal events. The 
incidence of serious gastrointestinal events, including gastroenteritis and gastritis, was seen in 1% of 
patients treated with dimethyl fumarate (see section 4.2). 
Very common  
Common  
Common  
Gastrointestinal 
Flushing 
Hepatic function 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lymphopenia 
In the placebo-controlled studies most patients (> 98%) had normal lymphocyte values prior to 
initiating treatment. Upon treatment with dimethyl fumarate, mean lymphocyte counts decreased over 
the first year with a subsequent plateau. On average, lymphocyte counts decreased by approximately 
30% of baseline value. Mean and median lymphocyte counts remained within normal limits. 
Lymphocyte counts < 0.5x109/L were observed in < 1% of patients treated with placebo and 6% of 
patients treated with dimethyl fumarate. A lymphocyte count < 0.2x109/L was observed in 1 patient 
treated with dimethyl fumarate and in no patients treated with placebo.  
Based on data from placebo-controlled studies, the majority of patients with elevations had hepatic 
transaminases that were < 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). The increased incidence of 
elevations of hepatic transaminases in patients treated with dimethyl fumarate relative to placebo was 
primarily seen during the first 6 months of treatment. Elevations of alanine aminotransferase and 
aspartate aminotransferase ≥ 3 times ULN, respectively, were seen in 5% and 2% of patients treated 
with placebo and 6% and 2% of patients treated with dimethyl fumarate. Discontinuations due to 
elevated hepatic transaminases were < 1% and similar in patients treated with dimethyl fumarate or 
placebo. Elevations in transaminases ≥ 3 times ULN with concomitant elevations in total bilirubin 
> 2 times ULN, were not observed in placebo-controlled studies. 
Increase of liver enzymes and cases of drug-induced liver injury (elevations in transaminases ≥ 3 times 
ULN with concomitant elevations in total bilirubin > 2 times ULN), have been reported in post 
marketing experience following dimethyl fumarate administration, which resolved upon treatment 
discontinuation. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
In addition, in an uncontrolled, prospective, post-marketing study, at week 48 of treatment with 
dimethyl fumarate (n=185) CD4+ T cells were moderately (counts ≥0.2x109/L to <0.4x109/L) or 
severely (<0.2x109/L) decreased in up to 37 % or 6 % of patients, respectively, while CD8+ T cells 
were more frequently reduced with up to 59 % of patients at counts <0.2x109/L and 25 % of patients at 
counts <0.1x109/L.  
In controlled and uncontrolled clinical studies, patients who discontinued dimethyl fumarate therapy 
with lymphocyte counts below the lower limit of normal (LLN) were monitored for recovery of 
lymphocyte count to the LLN (see section 5.1). 
In clinical studies (both controlled and uncontrolled), 41% of patients treated with dimethyl fumarate 
had lymphopenia (defined in these studies as <0.91x109/L). Mild lymphopenia (counts ≥0.8x109/L and 
<0.91 x109/L) was observed in 28% of patients; moderate lymphopenia (counts ≥0.5x109/L and 
<0.8x109/L) persisting for at least six months was observed in 11% of patients; severe lymphopenia 
(counts <0.5x109/L) persisting for at least six months was observed in 2% of patients. In the group 
with severe lymphopenia, the majority of lymphocyte counts remained <0.5x109/L with continued 
therapy.  
Cases of infections with John Cunningham virus (JCV) causing Progressive Multifocal 
Leukoencephalopathy (PML) have been reported with dimethyl fumarate (see section 4.4). PML may 
be fatal or result in severe disability. In one of the clinical trials, one patient taking dimethyl fumarate 
developed PML in the setting of prolonged severe lymphopenia (lymphocyte counts predominantly 
<0.5x109/L for 3.5 years), with a fatal outcome. In the post-marketing setting, PML has also occurred 
in the presence of moderate and mild lymphopenia (>0.5x109/L to <LLN, as defined by local 
laboratory reference range).  
Infections, including PML and opportunistic infections 
In several PML cases with determination of T cell subsets at the time of diagnosis of PML, CD8+ 
T cell counts were found to be decreased to <0.1x109/L, whereas reductions in CD4+ T cells counts 
were variable (ranging from <0.05 to 0.5x109/L) and correlated more with the overall severity of 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lymphopenia (<0.5 x109/L to <LLN). Consequently, the CD4+/CD8+ ratio was increased in these 
patients. 
Prolonged moderate to severe lymphopenia appears to increase the risk of PML with dimethyl 
fumarate, however, PML also occurred in patients with mild lymphopenia. Additionally, the majority 
of PML cases in the post-marketing setting have occurred in patients >50 years. 
Laboratory abnormalities 
A transient increase in mean eosinophil counts was seen during the first 2 months of therapy. 
In the placebo-controlled studies, measurement of urinary ketones (1+ or greater) was higher in 
patients treated with dimethyl fumarate (45%) compared to placebo (10%). No untoward clinical 
consequences were observed in clinical trials.  
Levels of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D decreased in dimethyl fumarate treated patients relative to placebo 
(median percentage decrease from baseline at 2 years of 25% versus 15%, respectively) and levels of 
parathyroid hormone (PTH) increased in dimethyl fumarate treated patients relative to placebo 
(median percentage increase from baseline at 2 years of 29% versus 15%, respectively). Mean values 
for both parameters remained within normal range.  
Herpes zoster infections have been reported with dimethyl fumarate use. In an ongoing long-term 
extension study, in which 1,736 MS patients are treated with dimethyl fumarate, approximately 5% 
experienced one or more events of herpes zoster, the majority of which were mild to moderate in 
severity. Most subjects, including those who experienced a serious herpes zoster infection, had 
lymphocyte counts above the lower limit of normal. In a majority of subjects with concurrent 
lymphocyte counts below the LLN, lymphopenia was rated moderate or severe. In the post-marketing 
setting, most cases of herpes zoster infection were non-serious and resolved with treatment. Limited 
data is available on absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) in patients with herpes zoster infection in the 
post-marketing setting. However, when reported, most patients experienced moderate (≥0.5x109/L to < 
0.8x109/L) or severe (<0.5x109/L to 0.2x109/L) lymphopenia (see section 4.4).  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
In a 96 week open label, randomised active controlled trial in paediatric patients with RRMS aged 10 
to less than 18 years (120 mg twice a day for 7 days followed by 240 mg twice a day for the remainder 
of treatment; study population, n=78), the safety profile in paediatric patients appeared similar to that 
previously observed in adult patients. 
The following adverse events were more frequently reported (≥10%) in the paediatric population than 
in the adult population: 
•  Headache was reported in 28% of patients treated with dimethyl fumarate versus 36% in patients 
The paediatric clinical trial design differed from the adult placebo-controlled clinical trials. Therefore, 
a contribution of clinical trial design to numerical differences in adverse reactions between the 
paediatric and adult populations, cannot be excluded. 
•  Gastrointestinal disorders were reported in 74% of patients treated with dimethyl fumarate versus 
31% in patients treated with interferon beta-1a. Among them, abdominal pain and vomiting were 
the most frequently reported with dimethyl fumarate. 
•  Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders were reported in 32% of patients treated with 
dimethyl fumarate versus 11% in patients treated with interferon beta-1a. Among them, 
oropharyngeal pain and cough were the most frequently reported with dimethyl fumarate. 
•  Dysmenorrhea was reported in 17% of patients treated with dimethyl fumarate versus 7% of 
treated with interferon beta-1a. 
Paediatric population 
patients treated with interferon beta-1a. 
In a small 24 week open-label uncontrolled study in paediatric patients with RRMS aged 13 to 
17 years (120 mg twice a day for 7 days followed by 240 mg twice a day for the remainder of 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment; safety population, n=22), followed by a 96 week extension study (240 mg twice per day; 
safety population n=20), the safety profile appeared similar to that observed in adult patients.   
There are limited data available in children between 10 and 12 years old. The safety and efficacy of 
dimethyl fumarate in children aged less than 10 years have not yet been established. 
5. 
4.9  Overdose 
Mechanism of action 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
Pharmacotherapeutic group:Immunosuppressants, other immunosuppressants, ATC code: L04AX07  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.* 
Cases of overdose with dimethyl fumarate have been reported. The symptoms described in these cases 
were consistent with the known adverse reaction profile of dimethyl fumarate. There are no known 
therapeutic interventions to enhance elimination of dimethyl fumarate nor is there a known antidote. In 
the event of overdose, it is recommended that symptomatic supportive treatment be initiated as 
clinically indicated. 
 Medicinal product no longer authorised
Effects on the immune system  
In preclinical and clinical studies, dimethyl fumarate demonstrated anti-inflammatory and 
immunomodulatory properties. Dimethyl fumarate and monomethyl fumarate, the primary metabolite 
of dimethyl fumarate, significantly reduced immune cell activation and subsequent release of pro-
inflammatory cytokines in response to inflammatory stimuli in preclinical models. In clinical studies 
with psoriasis patients, dimethyl fumarate affected lymphocyte phenotypes through a down-regulation 
of pro-inflammatory cytokine profiles (TH1, TH17), and biased towards anti-inflammatory production 
(TH2). Dimethyl fumarate demonstrated therapeutic activity in multiple models of inflammatory and 
neuroinflammatory injury. In Phase 3 studies in MS patients (DEFINE, CONFIRM and ENDORSE), 
upon treatment with dimethyl fumarate mean lymphocyte counts decreased on average by 
approximately 30% of their baseline value over the first year with a subsequent plateau. In these 
studies, patients who discontinued dimethyl fumarate therapy with lymphocyte counts below the lower 
limit of normal (LLN, 910 cells/mm3) were monitored for recovery of lymphocyte counts to the LLN. 
The mechanism by which dimethyl fumarate exerts therapeutic effects in multiple sclerosis is not fully 
understood. Preclinical studies indicate that dimethyl fumarate pharmacodynamic responses appear to 
be primarily mediated through activation of the Nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) 
transcriptional pathway. Dimethyl fumarate has been shown to up regulate Nrf2-dependent antioxidant 
genes in patients (e.g. NAD(P)H dehydrogenase, quinone 1; [NQO1]). 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 shows the proportion of patients estimated to reach the LLN based on the Kaplan-Meier 
method without prolonged severe lymphopenia. The recovery baseline (RBL) was defined as the last 
on-treatment ALC prior to dimethyl fumarate discontinuation. The estimated proportion of patients 
recovering to LLN (ALC ≥ 0.9 x 109/L) at Week 12 and Week 24, who had mild, moderate, or severe 
lymphopenia at RBL are presented in Table 1, Table 2, and Table 3 with 95% pointwise confidence 
intervals. The standard error of the Kaplan-Meier estimator of the survival function is computed using 
Greenwood’s formula. 
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier Method; Proportion of Patients with Recovery to ≥ 910 cells/mm3 LLN from 
the Recovery Baseline (RBL) 
Table 1: Kaplan-Meier Method; Proportion of patients estimated to reach LLN, mild 
lymphopenia at the recovery baseline (RBL), excluding patients with prolonged severe 
lymphopenia 
 Medicinal product no longer authorised
Week 24 
Number of patients with moderate 
lymphopeniaa at risk 
N=17 
0.70 
Proportion reaching 
(0.60, 0.80) 
LLN (95% CI) 
a Patients with ALC < 800 and ≥ 500 cells/mm3 at RBL, excluding patients with prolonged severe 
lymphopenia. 
Week 24 
Number of patients with mild 
lymphopeniaa at risk 
N=4 
0.90 
Proportion reaching 
(0.81, 0.96) 
LLN (95% CI) 
a Patients with ALC < 910 and ≥ 800 cells/mm3 at RBL, excluding patients with prolonged severe 
lymphopenia. 
Table 2: Kaplan-Meier Method; Proportion of patients estimated to reach LLN, moderate 
lymphopenia at the recovery baseline (RBL), excluding patients with prolonged severe 
lymphopenia 
Week 12 
N=33 
0.57 
(0.46, 0.67) 
Week 12 
N=12 
0.81 
(0.71, 0.89) 
Baseline 
N=86 
Baseline 
N=124 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Kaplan-Meier Method; Proportion of patients estimated to reach LLN, severe 
lymphopenia at the recovery baseline (RBL), excluding patients with prolonged severe 
lymphopenia 
Baseline 
N=18 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Week 12 
N=6 
0.43 
(0.20, 0.75) 
Week 24 
N=4 
0.62 
(0.35, 0.88) 
Two, 2-year, randomised, double-blind, placebo controlled studies (DEFINE) with 1234 subjects and 
CONFIRM with 1417 patients] of patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) were 
performed. Patients with progressive forms of MS were not included in these studies.  
Number of patients with severe 
lymphopeniaa at risk 
Proportion reaching 
LLN (95% CI) 
a Patients with ALC < 500 cells/mm3 at RBL, excluding patients with prolonged severe lymphopenia. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Efficacy (see table below) and safety were demonstrated in subjects with Expanded Disability Status 
Scale (EDSS) scores ranging from 0 to 5 inclusive, who had experienced at least 1 relapse during the 
year prior to randomisation, or, in the 6 weeks before randomisation had a brain Magnetic Resonance 
Imaging (MRI) demonstrating at least one gadolinium-enhancing (Gd+) lesion. Study CONFIRM 
contained a rater-blinded (i.e. study physician/ investigator assessing the response to study treatment 
was blinded) reference comparator of glatiramer acetate. 
In DEFINE, patients had the following median baseline characteristics: age 39 years, disease duration 
7.0 years, EDSS score 2.0. In addition, 16% of patients had an EDSS score > 3.5, 28% had ≥ 2 
relapses in the prior year and 42% had previously received other approved MS treatments. In the MRI 
cohort 36% of patients entering the study had Gd+ lesions at baseline (mean number of Gd+ lesions 
1.4). 
In CONFIRM, patients had the following median baseline characteristics: age 37 years, disease 
duration 6.0 years, EDSS score 2.5. In addition, 17% of patients had an EDSS score > 3.5, 32% had 
≥ 2 relapses in the prior year and 30% had previously received other approved MS treatments. In the 
MRI cohort 45% of patients entering the study had Gd+ lesions at baseline (mean number of Gd+ 
lesions 2.4). 
Compared to placebo, subjects treated with dimethyl fumarate had a clinically meaningful and 
statistically significant reduction on: the primary endpoint in Study DEFINE, proportion of subjects 
relapsed at 2 years; and the primary endpoint in Study CONFIRM, annualised relapse rate (ARR) at 
2 years.  
The ARR for glatiramer acetate and placebo was 0.286 and 0.401 respectively in Study CONFIRM, 
corresponding to a reduction of 29% (p = 0.013), which is consistent with approved prescribing 
information. 
Dimethyl 
fumarate 
240 mg twice a 
day 
Dimethyl 
fumarate 
240 mg 
twice a day 
CONFIRM 
DEFINE 
Placebo 
Placebo 
Clinical Endpointsa  
No. patients 
Annualised relapse rate 
Rate ratio 
(95% CI) 
Proportion relapsed 
408 
0.364 
0.461 
410 
0.172*** 
0.47 
(0.37, 0.61) 
0.270*** 
363 
0.401 
0.410 
359 
0.224*** 
0.56 
(0.42, 0.74) 
0.291** 
350 
0.286* 
0.71 
(0.55. 0.93) 
0.321** 
Glatiramer 
acetate 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEFINE 
CONFIRM 
Placebo 
Placebo 
Glatiramer 
acetate 
Dimethyl 
fumarate 
240 mg twice a 
day 
0.51 
(0.40, 0.66) 
0.164** 
Dimethyl 
fumarate 
240 mg 
twice a day 
0.66 
(0.51, 0.86) 
0.128# 
0.71 
(0.55, 0.92) 
0.156# 
0.93 
(0.63, 1.37) 
0.108# 
0.169 
0.271 
0.125 
0.169 
1.8 
(0) 
165 
16.5 
(7.0) 
144 
19.9 
(11.0) 
0.77 
(0.52, 1.14) 
0.62 
(0.37, 1.03) 
147 
5.7 
(2.0)*** 
152 
3.2 
(1.0) 
0.62 
(0.44, 0.87) 
0.128# 
0.79 
(0.52, 1.19) 
0.078# 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI) 
Proportion within 
12-week confirmed 
disability progression 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI) 
Proportion with 24 week 
confirmed disability 
progression 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI) 
MRI Endpointsb 
No. patients 
Mean (median) number 
of new or newly 
enlarging T2 lesions 
over 2 years 
Lesion mean ratio 
(95% CI) 
Mean (median) number 
of Gd lesions at 2 years 
Odds ratio 
(95% CI) 
Mean (median) number 
of new T1 hypointense 
lesions over 2 years 
Lesion mean ratio 
(95% CI) 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
An open non-controlled 8-year extension study (ENDORSE) enrolled 1,736 eligible RRMS patients 
from the pivotal studies (DEFINE and CONFIRM). The primary objective of the study was to assess 
the long-term safety of dimethyl fumarate in patients with RRMS. Of the 1,736 patients, 
approximately half (909, 52%) were treated for 6 years or longer. 501 patients were continuously 
treated with Dimethyl fumarate 240 mg twice daily across all 3 studies and 249 patients who were 
previously treated with placebo in studies DEFINE and CONFIRM received treatment 240 mg twice 
daily in study ENDORSE. Patients who received treatment twice daily continuously were treated for 
up to 12 years. 
During study ENDORSE, more than half of all patients treated with Dimethyl fumarate 240 mg twice 
daily did not have a relapse. For patients continuously treated twice daily across all 3 studies, the 
adjusted ARR was 0.187 (95% CI: 0.156, 0.224) in studies DEFINE and CONFIRM and 0.141 (95% 
CI: 0.119, 0.167) in study ENDORSE.  For patients previously treated with placebo, the adjusted ARR 
decreased from 0.330 (95% CI: 0.266, 0.408) in studies DEFINE and CONFIRM to 0.149 (95% CI: 
0.116, 0.190) in study ENDORSE.  
aAll analyses of clinical endpoints were intent-to-treat; bMRI analysis used MRI cohort 
*P-value < 0.05; **P-value < 0.01; ***P-value < 0.0001; #not statistically significant 
0.29 
(0.21, 0.41) 
0.5 
(0.0)*** 
0.26 
(0.15, 0.46) 
3.8 
(1.0)*** 
0.15 
(0.10, 0.23) 
0.1 
(0)*** 
0.10 
(0.05, 0.22) 
2.0 
(1.0)*** 
0.43 
(0.30, 0.61) 
0.28 
(0.20, 0.39) 
8.1 
(4.0) 
5.7 
(2.0) 
2.0 
(0.0) 
0.87 
(0.55,1.38) 
161 
9.6 
(3.0)*** 
0.46 
(0.33, 0.63) 
0.7 
(0.0)** 
0.39 
(0.24, 0.65) 
4.5 
(2.0) 
0.59 
(0.42, 0.82) 
In study ENDORSE, the majority of patients (> 75%) did not have confirmed disability progression 
(measured as 6-month sustained disability progression). Pooled results from the three studies 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
Paediatric population 
demonstrated Dimethyl fumarate treated patients had consistent and low rates of confirmed disability 
progression with slight increase in mean EDSS scores across ENDORSE. MRI assessments (up to 
year 6, including 752 patients who had previously been included in the MRI cohort of studies DEFINE 
and CONFIRM showed that the majority of patients (approximately 90%) had no Gd-enhancing 
lesions. Over the 6 years, the annual adjusted mean number of new or newly enlarging T2 and new T1 
lesions remained low. 
Efficacy in patients with high disease activity: 
In studies DEFINE and CONFIRM, consistent treatment effect on relapses in a subgroup of patients 
with high disease activity was observed, whilst the effect on time to 3-month sustained disability 
progression was not clearly established. Due to the design of the studies, high disease activity was 
defined as follows: 
- 
Patients with 2 or more relapses in one year, and with one or more Gd-enhancing lesions on 
brain MRI (n = 42 in DEFINE; n = 51 in CONFIRM) or, 
Patients who have failed to respond to a full and adequate course (at least one year of treatment) 
of beta-interferon, having had at least 1 relapse in the previous year while on therapy, and at 
least 9 T2-hyperintense lesions in cranial MRI or at least 1 Gd-enhancing lesion, or patients 
having an unchanged or increased relapse rate in the prior year as compared to the previous 
2 years (n = 177 in DEFINE; n = 141 in CONFIRM). 
The safety and effectiveness of dimethyl fumarate in paediatric RRMS was evaluated in a 
randomised, open-label, active-controlled (interferon beta-1a) parallel group study in patients with 
RRMS aged 10 to less than 18 years of age. One hundred and fifty patients were randomised to 
dimethyl fumarate (240 mg BID oral) or interferon beta-1a (30 μg IM once a week) for 96 weeks. The 
primary endpoint was the proportion of patients free of new or newly enlarging T2 hyperintense 
lesions on brain MRI scans at week 96. The main secondary endpoint was the number of new or newly 
enlarging T2 hyperintense lesions on brain MRI scans at week 96. Descriptive statistics are presented 
as no confirmatory hypothesis was pre-planned for the primary endpoint. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Orally administered dimethyl fumarate undergoes rapid presystemic hydrolysis by esterases and is 
converted to its primary metabolite, monomethyl fumarate, which is also active. Dimethyl fumarate is 
not quantifiable in plasma following oral administration of dimethyl fumarate. Therefore, all 
pharmacokinetic analyses related to dimethyl fumarate were performed with plasma monomethyl 
fumarate concentrations. Pharmacokinetic data were obtained in subjects with multiple sclerosis and 
healthy volunteers. 
The proportion of patients in the ITT population with no new or newly enlarging T2 MRI lesions at 
week 96 relative to baseline was 12.8% for dimethyl fumarate versus 2.8% in the interferon beta-1a 
group. The mean number of new or newly enlarging T2 lesions at Week 96 relative to baseline, 
adjusted for baseline number of T2 lesions and age (ITT population excluding patients without MRI 
measurements) was 12.4 for dimethyl fumarate and 32.6 for interferon beta-1a.  
The safety profile in paediatric patients (aged 13 to less than 18 years of age) receiving dimethyl 
fumarate was qualitatively consistent with that previously observed in adult patients (see section 4.8). 
The probability for clinical relapse was 34% in the dimethyl fumarate group and 48% in the interferon 
beta-1a group by the end of the 96 week open-label study period. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
The Tmax of monomethyl fumarate is 2 to 2.5 hours. As Dimethyl fumarate Mylan gastro-resistant hard 
capsules contain enteric coated pellets, which are protected by an enteric coating, absorption does not 
commence until they leave the stomach (generally less than 1 hour). Following 240 mg twice a day 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
Biotransformation 
administered with food, the median peak (Cmax) was 1.72 mg/l and overall area under the curve (AUC) 
exposure was 8.02 h.mg/l in subjects with multiple sclerosis. Overall, Cmax and AUC increased 
approximately dose- proportionally in the dose range studied (120 mg to 360 mg). In subjects with 
multiple sclerosis, two 240 mg doses were administered 4 hours apart as part of a three times a day 
dosing regimen. This resulted in a minimal accumulation of exposure yielding an increase in the 
median Cmax of 12% compared to the twice daily dosing (1.72 mg/l for twice daily compared to 
1.93 mg/l for three times daily) with no safety implications.  
The apparent volume of distribution following oral administration of 240 mg dimethyl fumarate varies 
between 60 L and 90 L. Human plasma protein binding of monomethyl fumarate generally ranges 
between 27% and 40%. 
Food does not have a clinically significant effect on exposure of dimethyl fumarate. However, 
dimethyl fumarate should be taken with food due to improved tolerability with respect to flushing or 
gastrointestinal adverse events (see section 4.2). 
In humans, dimethyl fumarate is extensively metabolised with less than 0.1% of the dose excreted as 
unchanged dimethyl fumarate in urine. It is initially metabolised by esterases, which are ubiquitous in 
the gastrointestinal tract, blood and tissues, before it reaches the systemic circulation. Further 
metabolism occurs through the tricarboxylic acid cycle, with no involvement of the cytochrome P450 
(CYP) system. A single 240 mg 14C-dimethyl fumarate dose study identified glucose as the 
predominant metabolite in human plasma. Other circulating metabolites included fumaric acid, citric 
acid and monomethyl fumarate. The downstream metabolism of fumaric acid occurs through the 
tricarboxylic acid cycle, with exhalation of CO2 serving as a primary route of elimination. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The terminal half-life of monomethyl fumarate is short (approximately 1 hour) and no circulating 
monomethyl fumarate is present at 24 hours in the majority of individuals. Accumulation of parent 
drug or monomethyl fumarate does not occur with multiple doses of dimethyl fumarate at the 
therapeutic regimen. 
Linearity 
Dimethyl fumarate exposure increases in an approximately dose proportional manner with single and 
multiple doses in the 120 mg to 360 mg dose range studied. 
Exhalation of CO2 is the primary route of dimethyl fumarate elimination accounting for 60% of the 
dose. Renal and faecal elimination are secondary routes of elimination, accounting for 15.5% and 
0.9% of the dose respectively. 
Based on the results of Analysis of Variance (ANOVA), body weight is the main covariate of 
exposure (by Cmax and AUC) in RRMS subjects, but did not affect safety and efficacy measures 
evaluated in the clinical studies. 
Gender and age did not have a clinically significant impact on the pharmacokinetics of dimethyl 
fumarate. The pharmacokinetics in patients aged 65 and over has not been studied. 
Pharmacokinetics in special patient groups 
Elimination 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetic profile of 240 mg dimethyl fumarate twice a day was evaluated in a small, open-
label, uncontrolled study in patients with RRMS aged 13 to 17 years (n = 21). The pharmacokinetics 
of dimethyl fumarate in these adolescent patients was consistent with that previously observed in adult 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients (Cmax: 2.00±1.29 mg/l; AUC0-12 hr: 3.62±1.16 hmg/l, which corresponds to an overall daily 
AUC of 7.24 hmg/l). 
Mutagenesis 
Carcinogenesis 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Renal impairment 
Since the renal pathway is a secondary route of elimination for dimethyl fumarate accounting for less 
than 16% of the dose administered, evaluation of pharmacokinetics in individuals with renal 
impairment was not conducted. 
The adverse reactions described in the Toxicology and Reproduction toxicity sections below were not 
observed in clinical studies, but were seen in animals at exposure levels similar to clinical exposure 
levels. 
Carcinogenicity studies of dimethyl fumarate were conducted for up to 2 years in mice and rats. 
Dimethyl fumarate was administered orally at doses of 25, 75, 200 and 400 mg/kg/day in mice, and at 
doses of 25, 50, 100, and 150 mg/kg/day in rats.  
Dimethyl fumarate and mono-methylfumarate were negative in a battery of in vitro assays (Ames, 
chromosomal aberration in mammalian cells). Dimethyl fumarate was negative in the in vivo 
micronucleus assay in the rat.  
Hepatic impairment 
As dimethyl fumarate and monomethyl fumarate are metabolised by esterases, without the 
involvement of the CYP450 system, evaluation of phamacokinetics in individuals with hepatic 
impairment was not conducted. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
In mice, the incidence of renal tubular carcinoma was increased at 75 mg/kg/day, at equivalent 
exposure (AUC) to the recommended human dose. In rats, the incidence of renal tubular carcinoma 
and testicular Leydig cell adenoma was increased at 100 mg/kg/day, approximately 2 times higher 
exposure than the recommended human dose. The relevance of these findings to human risk is 
unknown. 
The incidence of squamous cell papilloma and carcinoma in the nonglandular stomach (forestomach) 
was increased at equivalent exposure to the recommended human dose in mice and below exposure to 
the recommended human dose in rats (based on AUC). The forestomach in rodents does not have a 
human counterpart. 
Kidney changes were observed after repeated oral administration of dimethyl fumarate in mice, rats, 
dogs, and monkeys. Renal tubule epithelial regeneration, suggestive of injury, was observed in all 
species. Renal tubular hyperplasia was observed in rats with life time dosing (2-year study). In dogs 
that received daily oral doses of dimethyl fumarate for 11 months, the margin calculated for cortical 
atrophy was observed at 3 times the recommended dose based on AUC. In monkeys that received 
daily oral doses of dimethyl fumarate for 12 months, single cell necrosis was observed at 2 times the 
recommended dose based on AUC. Interstitial fibrosis and cortical atrophy were observed at 6 times 
the recommended dose based on AUC. The relevance of these findings to humans is not known.  
Nonclinical studies in rodent, rabbits, and monkeys were conducted with a dimethyl fumarate 
suspension (dimethyl fumarate in 0.8% hydroxypropyl methylcellulose) administered by oral gavage. 
The chronic dog study was conducted with oral administration of the dimethyl fumarate capsule.  
Toxicology 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the testes, degeneration of the seminiferous epithelium was seen in rats and dogs. The findings were 
observed at approximately the recommended dose in rats and 3 times the recommended dose in dogs 
(AUC basis). The relevance of these findings to humans is not known.  
Reproduction toxicity  
Findings in the forestomach of mice and rats consisted of squamous epithelial hyperplasia and 
hyperkeratosis; inflammation; and squamous cell papilloma and carcinoma in studies of 3 months or 
longer in duration. The forestomach of mice and rats does not have a human counterpart.  
Oral administration of dimethyl fumarate at 25, 75, and 150 mg/kg/day to pregnant rabbits during 
organogenesis had no effect on embryo-fetal development and resulted in reduced maternal body 
weight at 7 times the recommended dose and increased abortion at 16 times the recommended dose, 
on an AUC basis. 
Oral administration of dimethyl fumarate to male rats at 75, 250, and 375 mg/kg/day prior to and 
during mating had no effects on male fertility up to the highest dose tested (at least 2 times the 
recommended dose on an AUC basis). Oral administration of dimethyl fumarate to female rats at 25, 
100, and 250 mg/kg/day prior to and during mating, and continuing to Day 7 of gestation, induced 
reduction in the number of estrous stages per 14 days and increased the number of animals with 
prolonged diestrus at the highest dose tested (11 times the recommended dose on an AUC basis). 
However, these changes did not affect fertility or the number of viable fetuses produced.  
Dimethyl fumarate has been shown to cross the placental membrane into fetal blood in rats and 
rabbits, with ratios of fetal to maternal plasma concentrations of 0.48 to 0.64 and 0.1 respectively. No 
malformations were observed at any dose of dimethyl fumarate in rats or rabbits. Administration of 
dimethyl fumarate at oral doses of 25, 100, and 250 mg/kg/day to pregnant rats during the period of 
organogenesis resulted in maternal adverse effects at 4 times the recommended dose on an AUC basis, 
and low fetal weight and delayed ossification (metatarsals and hindlimb phalanges) at 11 times the 
recommended dose on an AUC basis. The lower fetal weight and delayed ossification were considered 
secondary to maternal toxicity (reduced body weight and food consumption).  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Two toxicity studies in juvenile rats with daily oral administration of dimethyl fumarate from postnatal 
day (PND) 28 through PND 90 to 93 (equivalent to approximately 3 years and older in humans) 
revealed similar target organ toxicities in the kidney and forestomach as observed in adult animals. In 
the first study, dimethyl fumarate did not affect development, neurobehavior or male and female 
fertility up to the highest dose of 140 mg/kg/day (approximately 4.6 times the recommended human 
dose based on limited AUC data in paediatric patients). Likewise, no effects on male reproductive and 
accessory organs were observed up to the highest dimethyl fumarate dose of 375 mg/kg/day in the 
second study in male juvenile rats (about 15-times the putative AUC at the recommended paediatric 
dose). However, decreased bone mineral content and density in the femur and lumbar vertebrae were 
evident in male juvenile rats. Bone densitometry changes were also observed in juvenile rats following 
oral diroximel fumarate administration, another fumaric ester that is metabolised to the same active 
metabolite monomethyl fumarate in vivo. The NOAEL for the densitometry changes in juvenile rats is 
approximately 1.5 times the presumptive AUC at the recommended paediatric dose. A relation of the 
bone effects to lower body weight is possible, but the involvement of a direct effect cannot be 
excluded. The bone findings are of limited relevance for adult patients. The relevance for paediatric 
patients is not known. 
Oral administration of dimethyl fumarate at 25, 100, and 250 mg/kg/day to rats during pregnancy and 
lactation resulted in lower body weights in the F1 offspring, and delays in sexual maturation in F1 
males at 11 times the recommended dose on an AUC basis. There were no effects on fertility in the F1 
offspring. The lower offspring body weight was considered secondary to maternal toxicity.  
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Capsule contents (enteric-coated pellets)  
Capsule shell 
Capsule print (black ink) 
Shellac  
Propylene glycol 
Ammonium hydroxide  
Black iron oxide (E172) 
Gelatin  
Titanium dioxide (E171)  
FD&C Blue#2 (E132)  
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
Black iron oxide (E172) 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Silica, colloidal anhydrous 
Magnesium stearate 
Methacrylic acid and Methyl Methacrylate copolymer (1:1) 
Methacrylic acid - Ethyl acrylate copolymer (1:1) dispersion 30% 
Triethyl citrate 
Talc 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
120 mg gastro-resistant hardcapsules: 14 gastro-resistant hard capsules in PVC/PE/PVdC aluminium 
blister packs and unit dose blister packs and white High density polyethylene (HDPE) bottles with a 
white opaque polypropylene screw cap with aluminium induction seal liner wad containing 14 or 60 
gastro-resistant hard capsules.  
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Bottle pack after opening 180 days. 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable.  
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
6.2 
240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 56 or 168 gastro-resistant hard capsules in PVC/PE/PVdC 
aluminium blister packs and unit dose blister packs and white High density polyethylene (HDPE) 
bottles with a white opaque polypropylene screw cap with aluminium induction seal liner wad 
containing 56 or 168 gastro-resistant hard capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
EU/1/22/1634/001 
EU/1/22/1634/002 
EU/1/22/1634/003 
EU/1/22/1634/004 
Mylan Ireland Limited 
Unit 35/36 Grange Parade  
Baldoyle Industrial Estate 
Dublin 13 
Ireland 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
EU/1/22/1634/005 
EU/1/22/1634/006 
EU/1/22/1634/007 
EU/1/22/1634/008 
EU/1/22/1634/009 
EU/1/22/1634/010 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Date of first authorisation: 13 May 2022 
9. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. 
A. 
ANNEX II 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
C. 
D. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Mylan Hungary Kft 
Mylan utca 1  
Komárom, 2900  
Hungary 
Mylan Germany GmbH 
Benzstrasse 1, Bad Homburg 
61352 Hesse 
Germany 
McDermott Laboratories Limited t/a Gerard Laboratories 
35/36 Baldoyle Industrial Estate 
Grange Road,  
Dublin 13  
Ireland 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
AUTHORISATION 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
• 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
2. 
3. 
1. 
4. 
Gastro-resistant capsules 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 120 mg dimethyl fumarate 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 gastro-resistant capsules 
14 x 1 gastro-resistant capsules 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 120 mg gastro-resistant capsules 
dimethyl fumarate 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Oral use 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
8. 
9. 
7. 
6. 
Do not store above 30 °C. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Lot 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
EU/1/22/1634/001 
EU/1/22/1634/002 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Ireland Limited 
Unit 35/36 Grange Parade 
Baldoyle Industrial Estate 
Dublin 13 
Ireland. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 120 mg  
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
PC 
SN 
NN 
15. 
16. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
2. 
5. 
4. 
3. 
1. 
Lot 
EXP 
EXPIRY DATE 
BATCH NUMBER 
Mylan Ireland Limited 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 120 mg gastro-resistant capsules 
dimethyl fumarate 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
OTHER 
Oral use 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
2. 
3. 
4. 
1. 
Gastro-resistant capsules 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 240 mg dimethyl fumarate 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 240 mg gastro-resistant capsules 
dimethyl fumarate 
56 gastro-resistant capsules 
56 x 1 gastro-resistant capsules 
168 gastro-resistant capsules 
168 x 1 gastro-resistant capsules 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Oral use 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
8. 
7. 
6. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30 °C. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Lot 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1634/005 
EU/1/22/1634/006 
EU/1/22/1634/007 
EU/1/22/1634/008 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Mylan Ireland Limited 
Unit 35/36 Grange Parade  
Baldoyle Industrial Estate 
Dublin 13 
Ireland 
 Medicinal product no longer authorised
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 240 mg  
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
PC 
SN 
NN 
15. 
16. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS  
BLISTER 
5. 
4. 
3. 
2. 
1. 
Lot 
EXP 
OTHER 
EXPIRY DATE 
BATCH NUMBER  
Mylan Ireland Limited 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 240 mg gastro-resistant capsules 
dimethyl fumarate  
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Oral use 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
CARTON AND BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
4. 
3. 
2. 
Gastro-resistant capsules 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 120 mg dimethyl fumarate 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 gastro-resistant capsules 
60 gastro-resistant capsules 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 120 mg gastro-resistant capsules 
dimethyl fumarate 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
6. 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Oral use 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
Once opened: 180 days 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
8. 
7. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30°C. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Lot 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
EU/1/22/1634/003 
EU/1/22/1634/004 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Ireland Limited 
Unit 35/36 Grange Parade 
Baldoyle Industrial Estate 
Dublin 13 
Ireland. 
 Medicinal product no longer authorised
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 120 mg  
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
PC 
SN 
NN 
15. 
16. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
CARTON AND BOTTLE LABEL  
4. 
3. 
2. 
1. 
Gastro-resistant capsules 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 240 mg dimethyl fumarate 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
56 gastro-resistant capsules 
168 gastro-resistant capsules 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 240 mg gastro-resistant capsules 
dimethyl fumarate 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
6. 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Oral use 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
Once opened: 180 days 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
7. 
8. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30 °C. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Lot 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
EU/1/22/1634/009 
EU/1/22/1634/010 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Ireland Limited 
Unit 35/36 Grange Parade 
Baldoyle Industrial Estate 
Dublin 13 
Ireland. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 240 mg  
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
PC 
SN 
NN 
15. 
16. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
dimethyl fumarate 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
What Dimethyl fumarate Mylan is 
1.  What Dimethyl fumarate Mylan is and what it is used for 
1.  What Dimethyl fumarate Mylan is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you take Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 
3.  How to take Dimethyl fumarate Mylan  
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
MS is a long-term condition that affects the central nervous system (CNS), including the brain and the 
spinal cord. Relapsing-remitting MS is characterised by repeated attacks (relapses) of nervous system 
symptoms. Symptoms vary from patient to patient, but typically include walking difficulties, feeling 
off balance and visual difficulties (e.g. blurred or double vision). These symptoms may disappear 
completely when the relapse is over, but some problems may remain. 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan seems to work by stopping the body’s defence system from damaging your 
brain and spinal cord. This may also help to delay future worsening of your MS. 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan is used to treat relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) in patients aged 
13 years and older. 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan is a medicine that contains the active substance dimethyl fumarate  
2.  What you need to know before you take Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 
What Dimethyl fumarate Mylan is used for  
Do not take Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 
How Dimethyl fumarate Mylan works 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to dimethyl fumarate or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed 
in section 6). 
If you are suspected to suffer from a rare brain infection called progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML) or if PML has been confirmed. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions  
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan may affect your white blood cell counts, your kidneys and liver. Before 
you start Dimethyl fumarate Mylan, your doctor will do a blood test to count the number of your white 
blood cells and will check that your kidneys and liver are working properly. Your doctor will test these 
periodically during treatment. If your number of white blood cells decreases during treatment, your 
doctor may consider additional analytic measures or discontinue your treatment 
Herpes zoster (shingles) may occur with Dimethyl fumarate Mylan treatment. In some cases, serious 
complications have occurred. You should inform your doctor immediately if you suspect you have 
any symptoms of shingles.  
Talk to your doctor before taking Dimethyl fumarate Mylan if you have:  
- severe kidney disease  
- severe liver disease  
- a disease of the stomach or bowel  
- a serious infection (such as pneumonia)  
If you believe your MS is getting worse (e.g. weakness or visual changes) or if you notice any new 
symptoms, talk to your doctor straight away because these may be the symptoms of a rare brain 
infection called progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). PML is a serious condition that 
may lead to severe disability or death. 
A rare but serious kidney disorder (Fanconi Syndrome) has been reported for a medicine containing 
dimethyl fumarate, in combination with other fumaric acid esters, used to treat psoriasis (a skin 
disease). If you notice you are passing more urine, are more thirsty and drinking more than normal, 
your muscles seem weaker, you break a bone, or just have aches and pains, talk to your doctor as soon 
as possible so that this can be investigated further. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
medicines that contain fumaric acid esters (fumarates) used to treat psoriasis  
medicines that affect the body’s immune system including other medicines used to treat 
MS, such as fingolimod, natalizumab, teriflunomide, alemtuzumab, ocrelizumab or cladribine, 
or some commonly used cancer treatments (rituximab or mitoxantrone).  
medicines that affect the kidneys including some antibiotics (used to treat infections), “water 
tablets” (diuretics), certain types of painkillers (such as ibuprofen and other similar anti-
inflammatories and medicines purchased without a doctor’s prescription) and medicines that 
contain lithium  
Taking Dimethyl fumarate Mylan with certain types of vaccines (live vaccines) may cause you 
to get an infection and should, therefore, be avoided. Your doctor will advise whether other 
types of vaccines (non-live vaccines) should be given.  
Other medicines and Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any medicines, in 
particular: 
The warnings and precautions listed above also apply to children. Dimethyl fumarate Mylan can be 
used in  children and adolescents aged 13 years and above. No data are available in children below 
10 years of age. 
Children and adolescents 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan with alcohol 
Consumption of more than a small quantity (more than 50 ml) of strong alcoholic drinks (more than 
30% alcohol by volume, e.g. spirits) should be avoided within an hour of taking Dimethyl fumarate 
Mylan, as alcohol can interact with this medicine. This could cause inflammation of the stomach 
(gastritis), especially in people already prone to gastritis. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Pregnancy 
Breast-feeding 
Driving and using machines 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan contains sodium 
The effect of Dimethyl fumarate Mylan on the ability to drive or use machines is not known. Dimethyl 
fumarate Mylan is not expected to affect your ability to drive and use machines. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
Do not use Dimethyl fumarate Mylan if you are pregnant unless you have discussed this with your 
doctor. 
It is not known whether the active substance of Dimethyl fumarate Mylan passes into breast milk. 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan should not be used during breast-feeding. Your doctor will help you decide 
whether you should stop breast-feeding, or stop using Dimethyl fumarate Mylan. This involves 
balancing the benefit of breast-feeding for your child, and the benefit of therapy for you. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure.  
Take Dimethyl fumarate Mylan with food – it may help to reduce some of the very common side 
effects (listed in section 4). 
Swallow each capsule whole, with some water. Do not divide, crush, dissolve, suck or chew the 
capsule as this may increase some side effects.  
120 mg twice a day. 
Take this starting dose for the first 7 days, then take the regular dose. 
How to take Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan is for oral use 
240 mg twice a day. 
Starting dose 
Regular dose 
3. 
If you take more Dimethyl fumarate Mylan than you should 
If you have taken too many capsules, talk to your doctor straight away. You may experience side 
effects similar to those described below in section 4. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you forget to take Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 
If you forget or miss a dose, do not take a double dose.  
4. 
Possible side effects 
You may take the missed dose if you leave at least 4 hours between the doses. Otherwise wait until 
your next planned dose.  
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
The symptoms of PML may be similar to an MS relapse. Symptoms may include new or worsening 
weakness on one side of the body; clumsiness; changes in vision, thinking, or memory; or confusion or 
personality changes, or speech and communication difficulties lasting for more than several days. 
Therefore, if you believe your MS is getting worse or if you notice any new symptoms while you are 
on Dimethyl fumarate Mylan treatment, it is very important that you speak to your doctor as soon as 
possible. Also speak with your partner or caregivers and inform them about your treatment. Symptoms 
might arise that you might not become aware of by yourself. 
Serious effects  
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan may lower lymphocyte counts (a type of white blood cell). Having a low 
white blood cell count can increase your risk of infection, including the risk of a rare brain infection 
called progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). PML may lead to severe disability or 
death. PML has occurred after 1 to 5 years of treatment and so your physician should continue to 
monitor your white blood cells throughout your treatment, and you should remain observant of any 
potential symptoms of PML as described below. The risk of PML may be higher if you have 
previously taken a medicine impairing the functionality of your body’s immune system. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
swelling of the face, lips, mouth or tongue (angioedema)  
wheezing, difficulty breathing or shortness of breath (dyspnoea, hypoxia)  
dizziness or loss of consciousness (hypotension)  
Reddening of the face or body (flushing) is a very common side effect. However, should flushing be 
accompanied by a red rash or hives and you get any of these symptoms: 
The frequency of severe allergic reactions cannot be estimated from the available data (not known).  
→  Call your doctor straight away if you experience any of these symptoms 
Stop taking Dimethyl fumarate Mylan and call a doctor straight away 
These may affect more than 1 in 10 people: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
reddening of the face or body feeling warm, hot, burning or itchy (flushing) 
loose stools (diarrhoea) 
feeling sick (nausea) 
stomach pain or stomach cramps 
then this may represent a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) 
Very common side effects 
Severe Allergic reactions 
- 
- 
- 
→ 
→Taking your medicine with food can help to reduce the side effects above 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Substances called ketones, which are naturally produced in the body, very commonly show up in urine 
tests while taking Dimethyl fumarate Mylan. 
Talk to your doctor about how to manage these side effects. Your doctor may reduce your dose. Do 
not reduce your dose unless your doctor tells you to. 
- 
- 
- 
Common side effects  
Side effects which may show up in your blood or urine tests 
low levels of white blood cells (lymphopenia, leucopenia) in the blood. Reduced white blood 
cells could mean your body is less able to fight an infection. If you have a serious infection 
(such as pneumonia), talk to your doctor immediately  
proteins (albumin) in urine  
increase in levels of liver enzymes (ALT, AST) in the blood  
These may affect up to 1 in 10 people:  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
inflammation of the lining of the intestines (gastroenteritis)  
being sick (vomiting)  
indigestion (dyspepsia)  
inflammation of the lining of the stomach (gastritis)  
gastrointestinal disorder  
burning sensation  
hot flush, feeling hot  
itchy skin (pruritus)  
rash  
pink or red blotches on the skin (erythema) 
hair loss (alopecia)  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
liver inflammation and increase in levels of liver enzymes (ALT or AST in combination with 
bilirubin)  
herpes zoster (shingles) with symptoms such as blisters, burning, itching or pain of the skin, 
typically on one side of the upper body or the face, and other symptoms, like fever and 
weakness in the early stages of infection, followed by numbness, itching or red patches with 
severe pain 
runny nose (rhinorrhoea) 
Children (13 years of age and above) and adolescents 
The side effects listed above also apply to children and adolescents.  
Some side effects were reported more frequently in children and adolescents than in adults, e.g, 
headache, stomach pain or stomach cramps, being sick (vomiting), throat pain, cough, and painful 
menstrual periods. 
These may affect up to 1 in 100 people:  
- 
- 
Allergic reactions (hypersensitivity)  
reduction in blood platelets  
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data)  
Uncommon side effects  
- 
- 
- 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
How to store Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
6. 
Do not store above 30°C. 
What Dimethyl fumarate Mylan contains  
Contents of the pack and other information 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the blister and the carton after “EXP”  
or on the bottle after “Once opened: 180 days”. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
The active substance is dimethyl fumarate 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 120 mg: Each capsule contains 120 mg of dimethyl fumarate.  
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 240 mg: Each capsule contains 240 mg of dimethyl fumarate. 
The other ingredients are microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose sodium, talc, silica colloidal 
anhydrous, magnesium stearate, triethyl citrate, methacrylic acid – methyl methacrylate copolymer 
(1:1), methacrylic acid – ethyl acrylate copolymer (1:1) dispersion 30%, gelatin, titanium dioxide 
(E171), brilliant blue FD&C#2 (E132), yellow iron oxide (E172), shellac, propylene glycol, 
ammonium hydroxide and black iron oxide (E172). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 240 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules are blue-green gastro-resistant hard 
capsules, printed with ‘MYLAN’ over ‘DF 240’ containing white to off-white enteric coated pellets 
and are available in blister packs containing 56 or 168 gastro-resistant hard capsules, unit dose blister 
packs containing 56 or 168 gastro-resistant hard capsules and plastic bottles containing 56 or 168 
gastro-resistant hard capsules. 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 120 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules are blue-green and white 
gastro-resistant hard capsules, printed with ‘MYLAN’ over ‘DF 120’ containing white to off-white 
enteric coated pellets and are available in blister packs containing 14 gastro-resistant hard capsules, 
unit dose blister packs containing 14 gastro-resistant hard capsules and plastic bottles containing 14 or 
60 gastro-resistant hard capsules. 
Mylan Ireland Limited 
Unit 35/36 Grange Parade,  
Baldoyle Industrial Estate 
Dublin 13, 
Ireland. 
What Dimethyl fumarate Mylan looks like and contents of the pack 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Manufacturers  
McDermott Laboratories Limited t/a Gerard Laboratories 
35/36 Baldoyle Industrial Estate  
Grange Road,  
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dublin 13  
Ireland 
Mylan Hungary Kft 
Mylan utca 1  
Komárom, 2900,  
Hungary 
България  
Майлан ЕООД  
Тел: +359 2 44 55 400  
Česká republika  
Viatris CZ s.r.o.  
Tel: + 420 222 004 400  
Lietuva  
Mylan Healthcare UAB  
Tel: +370 5 205 1288  
België/Belgique/Belgien  
Viatris  
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00  
Mylan Germany GmbH 
Benzstrasse 1, Bad Homburg 
61352 Hesse  
Germany 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg  
Viatris  
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00  
(Belgique/Belgien)  
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Eesti  
BGP Products Switzerland GmbH Eesti filiaal 
Tel: + 372 6363 052  
España  
Viatris Pharmaceuticals, S.L.U 
Tel: + 34 900 102 712  
Ελλάδα 
Generics Pharma Hellas ΕΠΕ  
Τηλ: +30 210 993 6410 
Polska  
Mylan Healthcare Sp. z.o.o.  
Tel: + 48 22 546 64 00  
Österreich  
Arcana Arzneimittel GmbH  
Tel: +43 1 416 2418  
Malta  
V.J. Salomone Pharma Ltd  
Tel: + 356 21 22 01 74  
Deutschland  
Viatris Healthcare GmbH  
Tel: +49 800 0700 800  
Nederland  
Mylan BV  
Tel: +31 (0)20 426 3300 
Magyarország  
Viatris Healthcare Kft  
Tel.: + 36 1 465 2100  
Norge  
Viatris AS  
Tlf: + 47 66 75 33 00  
Danmark  
Viatris ApS  
Tlf: +45 28 11 69 32  
France 
Viatris Santé 
Tél: +33 4 37 25 75 00  
Portugal  
Mylan, Lda.  
Tel: + 351 21 412 72 00  
Hrvatska  
Viatris Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 23 50 599  
România  
BGP Products SRL  
Tel: +40 372 579 000  
44 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
Ireland  
Mylan Ireland Limited  
Tel: +353 1 8711600  
Slovenija  
Viatris d.o.o. 
Tel: + 386 1 23 63 180  
Other sources of information 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Ísland  
Icepharma hf  
Sími: +354 540 8000  
Slovenská republika  
Viatris Slovakia s.r.o.  
Tel: +421 2 32 199 100  
Latvija 
Mylan Healthcare SIA  
Tel: +371 676 055 80  
Sverige  
Viatris AB 
Tel: + 46 (0)8 630 19 00 
Italia  
Viatris Italia S.r.l.  
Tel: + 39 (0) 2 612 46921  
Κύπρος  
Varnavas Hadjipanayis Ltd 
Τηλ: +357 2220 7700 
Suomi/Finland 
Viatris OY  
Puh/Tel: +358 20 720 9555  
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Mylan IRE Healthcare Limited 
+353 18711600 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
Error! Hyperlink reference not valid..  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
45 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
