I. The Medicine and What It is used for 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Dimethyl fumarate Teva's RMP. 
Part VI: Summary of the Risk Management Plan  
Summary of Risk Management Plan for DIMETHYL FUMARATE TEVA 
120 mg and 240 mg gastro-resistant capsules, hard  
This summary of the RMP for Dimethyl fumarate Teva should be read in the context of all 
this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Dimethyl fumarate Teva's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet 
give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Dimethyl fumarate 
Teva should be used.  
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for DIMETHYL FUMARATE TEVA 
120 mg and 240 mg gastro-resistant capsules, hard (hereinafter referred to as Dimethyl 
fumarate Teva). The RMP details important risks of Dimethyl fumarate Teva, how these risks 
can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about product’s risks and 
uncertainties (missing information). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Further information about the evaluation of Dimethyl fumarate Teva’s benefits can be found 
in Dimethyl fumarate Teva’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on 
the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/dimethyl-fumarate-teva 
Dimethyl fumarate Teva is authorised for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains dimethyl fumarate 
as the active substance and it is given by oral route of administration. 
Important risks of Dimethyl fumarate Teva, together with measures to minimise such risks 
and the proposed studies for learning more about Dimethyl fumarate Teva's risks, if any, are 
outlined below. 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in 
the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
II. Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or 
  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
Further Characterise the Risks  
ensure that the medicine is used correctly; 
 
  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. 
with or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
Table 1: 
Important identified risks 
Summary of Safety Concerns  
List of important risks and missing information 
  Decreases in leukocyte and lymphocyte counts 
  Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Dimethyl fumarate Teva is not yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
Important risks of Dimethyl fumarate Teva are risks that need special risk management 
activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be 
safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Dimethyl fumarate Teva. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product 
that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Increased risk of infection in patients concomitantly 
taking anti-neoplastic or immunosuppressive therapies 
Interaction with nephrotoxic medications leading to 
renal toxicity 
  Safety profile in patients with moderate to severe renal 
  Safety profile in patients with severe active GI disease 
  Serious and opportunistic infections (other than PML 
  Safety profile in patients with hepatic impairment 
  Safety profile in patients over the age of 55 years 
  Effects on pregnancy outcome 
  Long term efficacy and safety 
  Drug-induced liver injury 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
  Malignancies 
and herpes zoster) 
impairment 
II.B Summary of Important Risks 
 
 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference 
medicinal product. 
II.C Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Dimethyl fumarate Teva. 
There are no studies required for Dimethyl fumarate Teva. 
II.C.2 Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
 
