EMA/127030/2022 
EMEA/H/C/005956 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan contains the active substance dimethyl fumarate and is a ‘generic medicine’. 
themselves. It is used in adults with a type of MS known as relapsing-remitting MS, where the patient 
This means that Dimethyl fumarate Mylan contains the same active substance and works in the same 
has flare-ups of symptoms (relapses) followed by periods of recovery (remissions). 
inflammation damages the protective insulation around nerves (demyelination) as well as the nerves 
way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Tecfidera. For more information on 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan is a medicine used to treat multiple sclerosis (MS), a disease in which 
What is Dimethyl fumarate Mylan and what is it used for? 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan (dimethyl fumarate) 
An overview of Dimethyl fumarate Mylan and why it is authorised in the EU 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
For more information about using Dimethyl fumarate Mylan, see the package leaflet or contact your 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started 
nervous system (the brain, spinal cord and the optic nerve of the eye), causing inflammation that 
damages the nerves and the insulation around them. The active substance, dimethyl fumarate, is 
twice a day for the first seven days, after which it is increased to 240 mg twice a day. The dose may 
thought to work by activating a protein called ‘Nrf2’ that regulates certain genes that produce 
How does Dimethyl fumarate Mylan work? 
be reduced temporarily in patients experiencing side effects of flushing and gastrointestinal (stomach 
‘antioxidants’ involved in protecting cells from damage. Dimethyl fumarate has been shown to reduce 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan is available as capsules to be taken by mouth with food. The dose is 120 mg 
In MS, the immune system (the body’s natural defences) malfunctions and attacks parts of the central 
How is Dimethyl fumarate Mylan used? 
generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
under the supervision of a doctor experienced in treating MS.  
doctor or pharmacist. 
and gut) problems.  
inflammation and modulate the activity of the immune system.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Because Dimethyl fumarate Mylan is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, 
company also carried out studies that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two 
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Dimethyl fumarate Mylan. The 
medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body 
How has Dimethyl fumarate Mylan been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Tecfidera, and do not need to be repeated for Dimethyl 
fumarate Mylan.  
and are therefore expected to have the same effect. 
fumarate Mylan has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Tecfidera. 
outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Dimethyl fumarate Mylan authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Dimethyl 
Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Tecfidera, the benefits of Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 
What are the benefits and risks of Dimethyl fumarate Mylan? 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan? 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/dimethyl-fumarate-mylan. Information on the reference 
Suspected side effects reported with Dimethyl fumarate Mylan are carefully evaluated and any 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Dimethyl fumarate Mylan are continuously monitored. 
and effective use of Dimethyl fumarate Mylan have been included in the summary of product 
Further information on Dimethyl fumarate Mylan can be found on the Agency’s website: 
Other information about Dimethyl fumarate Mylan 
medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 05-2022. 
necessary action taken to protect patients. 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 13 May 2022. 
Dimethyl fumarate Mylan (dimethyl fumarate)  
EMA/127030/2022  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
