relapsing-remitting MS, where the patient has flare-ups of symptoms (relapses) followed by periods of 
Dimethyl fumarate Teva is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Dimethyl fumarate Teva contains the 
same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the 
inflammation damages the protective insulation around nerves (demyelination) as well as the nerves 
recovery (remissions). 
EMA/887328/2022 
EMEA/H/C/005963 
themselves. It is used in adults and children from 13 years of age with a type of MS known as 
Dimethyl fumarate Teva is a medicine used to treat multiple sclerosis (MS), a disease in which 
What is Dimethyl fumarate Teva and what is it used for? 
Dimethyl fumarate Teva (dimethyl fumarate) 
An overview of Dimethyl fumarate Teva and why it is authorised in the EU 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
For more information about using Dimethyl fumarate Teva, see the package leaflet or contact your 
Dimethyl fumarate Teva can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started 
nervous system (the brain, spinal cord and the optic nerve of the eye), causing inflammation that 
be reduced temporarily in patients experiencing flushing and gastrointestinal (stomach and gut) 
EU called Tecfidera. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer 
Dimethyl fumarate Teva contains the active substance dimethyl fumarate. 
How does Dimethyl fumarate Teva work? 
How is Dimethyl fumarate Teva used? 
under the supervision of a doctor experienced in treating MS. 
problems as side effects.  
doctor or pharmacist. 
document here. 
twice a day for the first seven days, after which it is increased to 240 mg twice a day. The dose may 
Dimethyl fumarate Teva is available as capsules to be taken by mouth with food. The dose is 120 mg 
damages the nerves and the insulation around them. The active substance in this medicine, dimethyl 
In MS, the immune system (the body’s natural defences) malfunctions and attacks parts of the central 
fumarate, is thought to work by activating a protein called ‘Nrf2’. This protein regulates certain genes 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
producing ‘antioxidants’ that help protect cells from damage. Dimethyl fumarate has been shown to 
reduce inflammation and modulate the activity of the immune system. 
Because Dimethyl fumarate Teva is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, 
company also carried out studies that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two 
medicine. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Tecfidera, the benefits of Dimethyl fumarate 
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Dimethyl fumarate Teva. The 
fumarate Teva has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to the reference 
medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body 
How has Dimethyl fumarate Teva been studied? 
fumarate Teva.  
and are therefore expected to have the same effect. 
Teva outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised use have already been 
its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Dimethyl fumarate Teva authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Dimethyl 
carried out with the reference medicine, Tecfidera, and do not need to be repeated for Dimethyl 
What are the benefits and risks of Dimethyl fumarate Teva? 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Dimethyl fumarate Teva? 
and effective use of Dimethyl fumarate Teva have been included in the summary of product 
Further information on Dimethyl fumarate Teva can be found on the Agency’s website: 
Other information about Dimethyl fumarate Teva 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Dimethyl-fumarate-Teva. 
This overview was last updated in 12-2022. 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
taken to protect patients. 
2022.  
side effects reported with Dimethyl fumarate Teva are carefully evaluated and any necessary action 
Dimethyl fumarate Teva received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 12 December 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Dimethyl fumarate Teva are continuously monitored. Suspected 
Dimethyl fumarate Teva (dimethyl fumarate)  
EMA/887328/2022  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
