I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Summary of risk management plan for Dimethyl Fumarate Mylan (dimethyl fumarate) 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Dimethyl 
Fumarate Mylan's RMP. 
Dimethyl Fumarate Mylan's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet 
give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how it should be used. 
Dimethyl Fumarate Mylan is authorised for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting 
multiple sclerosis. It contains dimethyl fumarate as the active substance, and it is given by oral 
route. 
This summary of the RMP for Dimethyl Fumarate Mylan should be read in the context of all the 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Dimethyl Fumarate Mylan. The RMP 
details important risks of dimethyl fumarate, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information  will  be  obtained  about  dimethyl  fumarate's  risks  and  uncertainties  (missing 
information). 
PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
Further information about the evaluation of Dimethyl Fumarate Mylan’s benefits can be found in 
Dimethyl  Fumarate  Mylan’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the 
webpage: 
EMA 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/dimethyl-fumarate-mylan.  
Important risks of Dimethyl Fumarate Mylan, together with measures to minimise such risks are 
outlined below. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the 
risks  
• 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or 
•  Specific  Information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
the medicine is used correctly; 
medicine’s 
website, 
under 
the 
without prescription) can help to minimises its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
Part VI: Summary of safety concerns 
List of important risks and missing information  
II.A List of important risks and missing information  
If  important  information  that  may  affect  the  safe  use  of  Dimethyl  Fumarate  Mylan  is  not  yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  events  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
Important risks of Dimethyl Fumarate Mylan are risks that need special risk management activities 
to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken by 
patients. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Dimethyl Fumarate Mylan. Potential risks 
are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data,  but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing 
and  needs  to  be  collected  (e.g.  on  the  long-term  use  of  the  medicine/use  in  special  patient 
populations etc.); 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
•  Serious  and  opportunistic  infections  (other  than  PML 
•  Safety profile in patients with moderate to severe renal 
Interaction  with  nephrotoxic  medications  leading  to 
•  Safety profile in patients over the age of 55 years 
•  Decreases in leukocyte and lymphocyte counts  
•  Effects on pregnancy outcome 
•  Long term efficacy and safety 
•  Drug-induced liver injury  
•  Safety profile in patients with hepatic impairment 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
and herpes zoster) 
•  Malignancies  
renal toxicity  
impairment 
•  PML  
• 
•  Safety profile in patients with severe active GI disease 
There are no studies which are conditions for the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Dimethyl Fumarate Mylan. 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
Increased  risk  of  infection  in  patients  concomitantly 
taking anti-neoplastic or immunosuppressive therapies  
• 
II.B Summary of important risks  
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Dimethyl Fumarate Mylan. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
List of important risks and missing information  
Medicinal product no longer authorised
