recovery (remissions). 
EMA/950102/2022 
EMEA/H/C/005950 
relapsing-remitting MS, where the patient has flare-ups of symptoms (relapses) followed by periods of 
What is Dimethyl fumarate Accord and what is it used for? 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord (dimethyl fumarate) 
An overview of Dimethyl fumarate Accord and why it is authorised in the EU 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Dimethyl fumarate Accord contains 
the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in 
the EU. The reference medicine for Dimethyl fumarate Accord is Tecfidera. For more information on 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord is a medicine used to treat multiple sclerosis (MS), a disease in which 
inflammation damages the protective insulation around nerves (demyelination) as well as the nerves 
themselves. It is used in adults and adolescents from 13 years of age with a type of MS known as 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
twice a day for the first seven days, after which it is increased to 240 mg twice a day. The dose may 
be reduced temporarily in patients experiencing side effects of flushing and gastrointestinal (stomach 
protective insulation around the nerves and the nerves themselves in the brain and spinal cord. The 
active substance in this medicine, dimethyl fumarate, is thought to work by activating a protein called 
For more information about using Dimethyl fumarate Accord, see the package leaflet or contact your 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started 
In multiple sclerosis, the immune system (the body’s natural defences) attacks and damages the 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord contains the active substance dimethyl fumarate. 
How does Dimethyl fumarate Accord work? 
How is Dimethyl fumarate Accord used? 
generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord is available as capsules to be taken by mouth with food. The dose is 120 mg 
under the supervision of a doctor experienced in treating MS. 
doctor or pharmacist. 
and gut) problems. 
‘Nrf2’ that regulates certain genes that produce ‘antioxidants’ involved in protecting cells from damage. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Dimethyl fumarate has been shown to reduce inflammation and modulate the activity of the immune 
system. 
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Dimethyl fumarate Accord. The 
company also carried out studies that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two 
How has Dimethyl fumarate Accord been studied? 
fumarate Accord.  
medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body 
fumarate Accord has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Tecfidera. 
and are therefore expected to have the same effect. 
outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Tecfidera, the benefits of Dimethyl fumarate Accord 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised use have already been 
medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Dimethyl fumarate Accord authorised in the EU? 
Because Dimethyl fumarate Accord is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Dimethyl 
carried out with the reference medicine, Tecfidera, and do not need to be repeated for Dimethyl 
What are the benefits and risks of Dimethyl fumarate Accord? 
  Medicinal product no longer authorised
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord? 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/dimethyl-fumarate-accord. Information on the reference 
Suspected side effects reported with Dimethyl fumarate Accord are carefully evaluated and any 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Dimethyl fumarate Accord are continuously monitored. 
and effective use of Dimethyl fumarate Accord have been included in the summary of product 
Further information on Dimethyl fumarate Accord can be found on the Agency’s website: 
Other information about Dimethyl fumarate Accord 
medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
necessary action taken to protect patients. 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
2023. 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 February 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord (dimethyl fumarate)  
EMA/950102/2022  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
