EU 
EMA/127784/2022 
EMEA/H/C/005955 
has flare-ups of symptoms (relapses) followed by periods of recovery (remissions). 
medicine’. This means that Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma contains the same active substance and 
Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma is a medicine used to treat multiple sclerosis (MS), a disease in which 
inflammation damages the protective insulation around nerves (demyelination) as well as the nerves 
themselves. It is used in adults with a type of MS known as relapsing-remitting MS, where the patient 
Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma (dimethyl fumarate) 
An overview of Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma and why it is authorised in the 
Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma contains the active substance dimethyl fumarate and is a ‘generic 
What is Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma and what is it used for? 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
nervous system (the brain, spinal cord and the optic nerve of the eye), causing inflammation that 
damages the nerves and the insulation around them. The active substance, dimethyl fumarate, is 
dose may be reduced temporarily in patients experiencing side effects of flushing and gastrointestinal 
For more information about using Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma, see the package leaflet or contact 
Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma is available as capsules to be taken by mouth with food. The dose is 
120 mg twice a day for the first seven days, after which it is increased to 240 mg twice a day. The 
works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Tecfidera. For 
Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be 
thought to work by activating a protein called ‘Nrf2’ that regulates certain genes that produce 
more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
In MS, the immune system (the body’s natural defences) malfunctions and attacks parts of the central 
How does Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma work? 
How is Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma used? 
started under the supervision of a doctor experienced in treating MS.  
(stomach and gut) problems.  
your doctor or pharmacist. 
‘antioxidants’ involved in protecting cells from damage. Dimethyl fumarate has been shown to reduce 
inflammation and modulate the activity of the immune system.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How has Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Tecfidera, and do not need to be repeated for Dimethyl 
As for every medicine, the company provided data on the quality of Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma. The 
fumarate Polpharma has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Tecfidera. 
Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Tecfidera, the benefits of Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma 
company also carried out studies that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two 
fumarate Polpharma.  
medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body 
and are therefore expected to have the same effect. 
Because Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference 
outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Dimethyl 
Why is Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma authorised in the EU? 
What are the benefits and risks of Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma? 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma? 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
Further information on Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma can be found on the Agency’s website: 
Other information about Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma 
and effective use of Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma have been included in the summary of product 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma are continuously monitored. 
medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
Suspected side effects reported with Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma are carefully evaluated and any 
This overview was last updated in 05-2022. 
necessary action taken to protect patients. 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 13 May 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/dimethyl-fumarate-polpharma. Information on the reference 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
2022. 
Dimethyl fumarate Polpharma (dimethyl fumarate)  
EMA/127784/2022  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
