120/240  mg  gastro  resistant  hard  capsules,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more 
Dimethyl  fumarate  Accord  120/240  mg  gastro  resistant  hard  capsules’  summary  of  product 
information will be obtained about Dimethyl fumarate Accord 120/240 mg gastro resistant hard 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Dimethyl fumarate Accord 120/240 mg 
and patients on how Dimethyl fumarate Accord 120/240 mg gastro resistant hard capsules should 
gastro  resistant  hard  capsules.  The  RMP  details  important  risks  of  Dimethyl  fumarate  Accord 
characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals 
Summary of risk management plan for Dimethyl fumarate 
Accord  120/240  mg  gastro  resistant  hard  capsules 
(Dimethyl fumarate) 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Dimethyl  fumarate  Accord  120/240  mg  gastro  resistant  hard 
capsules should be read in the context of all this information including the assessment report of the 
be used. 
capsules’ risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
It contains dimethyl fumarate as the active substance and it is given by oral route. 
years and older with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). 
fumarate Accord 120/240 mg gastro resistant hard capsules’ RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
fumarate-accord. 
Report (EPAR). 
evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment 
hard capsules’  EPAR, including  in  its  plain-language summary, available on the EMA  website, 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Dimethyl 
Further information about the evaluation of Dimethyl fumarate Accord 120/240 mg gastro resistant 
hard capsules’  benefits  can be found in  Dimethyl fumarate Accord 120/240 mg  gastro resistant 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord is indicated for the treatment of adult and paediatric patients aged 13 
under the medicine’s webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/dimethyl-
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks 
Important risks of Dimethyl fumarate Accord 120/240 mg gastro resistant hard capsules, together 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
•  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about Dimethyl 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
fumarate Accord 120/240 mg gastro resistant hard capsules’ risks, are outlined below. 
• 
medicine is used correctly; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed during signal management activity, so that immediate action can be taken as 
medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. 
fumarate Accord 120/240 mg gastro resistant hard capsules. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
Important risks of Dimethyl fumarate Accord 120/240 mg gastro resistant hard capsules are risks 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Dimethyl fumarate Accord 120/240 mg 
that need special risk management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the 
Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Dimethyl 
gastro resistant hard capsules is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below.  
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information 
on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on 
the long-term use of the medicine); 
 
Important identified risks 
•  Decreases in leukocyte and lymphocyte counts 
•  Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
Important potential risks 
•  Serious and opportunistic infections (other than PML 
Interaction with nephrotoxic medications leading to 
• 
renal toxicity 
•  Malignancies 
and herpes zoster) 
•  Drug-induced liver injury 
•  Long term efficacy and safety 
•  Effects on pregnancy outcome 
•  Safety profile in patients over the age of 55 years 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
•  Safety profile in patients with hepatic impairment 
•  Safety profile in patients with severe active 
gastrointestinal (GI) disease 
impairment 
• 
Increased risk of infection in patients concomitantly 
taking anti-neoplastic or immunosuppressive therapies 
•  Safety profile in patients with moderate to severe renal 
Missing information 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
II.B Summary of important risks 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
product. 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Dimethyl fumarate Accord 120/240 mg gastro resistant hard capsules. 
 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There  are  no  studies  required  for  Dimethyl  fumarate  Accord  120/240  mg  gastro  resistant  hard 
capsules. 
Medicinal product no longer authorised
