EMA/112352/2020 
EMEA/H/C/002539 
Docetaxel Accord (docetaxel) 
An overview of Docetaxel Accord and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Docetaxel Accord and what is it used for? 
Docetaxel Accord is a cancer medicine used to treat the following types of cancer: 
• 
breast cancer. Docetaxel Accord can be used on its own after other treatments have failed. It can 
also be used with other cancer medicines (capecitabine, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin or 
trastuzumab) in patients who have not yet received treatment for their cancer or after other 
treatments have failed, depending on the type and stage of the breast cancer being treated; 
•  non-small-cell lung cancer. Docetaxel Accord can be used on its own after other treatments have 
failed. It can also be used with cisplatin (another cancer medicine) in patients who have not yet 
received any treatment for their cancer; 
• 
prostate cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic). Docetaxel Accord is used 
with androgen-deprivation therapy (therapy greatly reducing the body’s production of 
testosterone) when such treatment still works. Docetaxel Accord is used with prednisone or 
prednisolone (anti-inflammatory medicines) when the cancer is castration resistant (androgen-
deprivation therapy does not work);  
•  metastatic gastric adenocarcinoma (a stomach cancer) in patients who have not yet received any 
treatment for metastatic cancer. Docetaxel Accord is used with cisplatin and fluorouracil (other 
cancer medicines); 
•  head and neck cancer in patients whose cancer is locally advanced (a cancer that has grown but 
has not spread). Docetaxel Accord is used with cisplatin and fluorouracil. 
Docetaxel Accord is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Docetaxel Accord contains the same active 
substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU called 
Taxotere. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
Docetaxel Accord contains the active substance docetaxel. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European 
Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Docetaxel Accord used? 
Docetaxel Accord can only be obtained with a prescription and should only be used in units specialising 
in giving chemotherapy (medicines to treat cancer) under the supervision of a doctor who is qualified 
in the use of chemotherapy. 
Docetaxel Accord is given as a 1-hour infusion (drip) into a vein every 3 weeks. The dose, duration of 
treatment and the medicines it is used with depend on the type of cancer being treated and the 
patient’s weight and height. An anti-inflammatory medicine such as dexamethasone should also be 
given to the patient, starting on the day before the Docetaxel Accord infusion. The dose of Docetaxel 
Accord may need to be reduced, or treatment interrupted or discontinued, if the patient develops 
certain side effects. 
For more information about using Docetaxel Accord, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist.  
How does Docetaxel Accord work? 
The active substance in Docetaxel Accord, docetaxel, belongs to the group of cancer medicines known 
as taxanes. Docetaxel blocks the ability of cells to break down the internal ‘skeleton’ that allows them 
to divide. With the skeleton still in place, the cells cannot divide and they eventually die. Because 
docetaxel works on dividing cells, it also affects non-cancer cells such as blood cells, which can cause 
side effects. 
How has Docetaxel Accord been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Taxotere, and do not need to be repeated for Docetaxel 
Accord.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Docetaxel Accord. There was no 
need for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Docetaxel Accord is absorbed similarly to the 
reference medicine to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This is because 
Docetaxel Accord is given by infusion into a vein, so the active substance is delivered straight into the 
bloodstream. 
What are the benefits and risks of Docetaxel Accord? 
Because Docetaxel Accord is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as 
the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Docetaxel Accord authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Docetaxel Accord 
has been shown to be comparable to Taxotere. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Taxotere, 
the benefits of Docetaxel Accord outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use in the 
EU. 
Docetaxel Accord (docetaxel)  
EMA/112352/2020  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Docetaxel Accord? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Docetaxel Accord have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Docetaxel Accord are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Docetaxel Accord are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Docetaxel Accord 
Docetaxel Accord received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 22 May 2012. 
Further information on Docetaxel Accord can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/docetaxel-accord. Information on the reference medicine can 
also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 04-2020. 
Docetaxel Accord (docetaxel)  
EMA/112352/2020  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
