15 March 2012 
EMA/339179/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Docetaxel Accord 
International non-proprietary name: docetaxel 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002539 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all 
information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents   
Background information on the procedure .................................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 4 
Information on paediatric requirements ....................................................................... 4 
Licensing status ....................................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 5 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 7 
2.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 7 
2.2.2. Finished medicinal product................................................................................ 8 
2.2.3. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects .......................................... 10 
2.2.4. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ..................... 10 
2.3. Non- clinical aspects ......................................................................................... 10 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 10 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/Environmental risk assessment........................................................ 11 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 11 
2.4.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 11 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics .......................................................................................... 11 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics ........................................................................................ 11 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience.............................................................................. 11 
2.4.5. Conclusions on clinical aspects ........................................................................ 12 
2.5. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 13 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 13 
4. Recommendation ................................................................................... 14 
Docetaxel Accord 
Assessment report 
Page 2/14
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ASMF: Active Substance Master File 
CHMP: Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use  
EMA: European medicines agency 
GCP: Good Clinical Practice 
ERA: Environmental Risk Assessment 
MA: Marketing Authorisation 
MAH: Marketing authorisation holder 
SmPC: Summary of product characteristics 
Docetaxel Accord 
Assessment report 
Page 3/14
 
 
 
 
Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Accord Healthcare Ltd. submitted on 31 May 2011 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Docetaxel Accord, through the centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised 
product’. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 26 April 
2011. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has been 
granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 
2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication treatment of breast cancer, non-small cell lung 
cancer, prostate cancer, gastric adenocarcinoma, head and neck cancer. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data instead of 
non-clinical and clinical data unless justified otherwise. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
The chosen reference product is: 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form:     Taxotere 20 mg/0.5ml, 80 mg/2ml, concentrate 
and solvent for solution for infusion 
  Marketing authorisation holder:     Aventis Pharma S.A. 
  Date of authorisation:  27 November 1995      
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation number:      EU/1/95/002/001-002 
■  Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form:   Taxotere 20 mg/1ml, 80 mg/2ml and 160 mg/8ml, 
concentrate for solution for infusion   
  Marketing authorisation holder:      Aventis Pharma S.A. 
  Date of authorisation:  27 November 1995      
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation number:      EU/1/95/002/003-005 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
Docetaxel Accord 
Assessment report 
Page 4/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
Tomas Salmonson 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 31 May 2011.  
The procedure started on 22 June 2011. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 09 
September 2011.  
During the meeting on 17-20 October 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 24 October 2011. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 14 
November 2011. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 28 December 2011.  
During the CHMP meeting on 16-19 January 2012, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant (Annex 4). 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 
13 February 2012. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 24 February 2012.  
During the meeting on 12-15 March 2012, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
Marketing Authorisation to Docetaxel Accord on 15 March 2012.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Docetaxel Accord concentrate for solution for infusion is a generic medicinal product containing the 
active substance docetaxel. The reference medicinal product is Taxotere concentrate and solvent for 
solution for infusion authorised on 27 November 1995. The active substance of the reference product is 
docetaxel. 
Docetaxel is an antineoplastic agent which binds to free tubulin, promotes the assembly of tubulin into 
stable microtubules and inhibits their depolymerisation/disassembly. Docetaxel disrupts the 
microtubular network in cells, which is essential for vital mitotic and interphase cellular functions. 
The safety and efficacy profile of docetaxel for the treatment of breast cancer, non-small cell lung 
cancer, prostate cancer, gastric adenocarcinoma and head and neck cancer has been demonstrated in 
several clinical trials, details of which can be found in the EPAR of the reference medicinal product. In 
addition, there is a long-term post-marketing experience contributing to the knowledge of the clinical 
use of this active substance  
Docetaxel Accord 
Assessment report 
Page 5/14
 
 
 
 
 
The indications proposed for Docetaxel Accord are identical to the indications for the reference 
medicinal product Taxotere and are as follows: 
Breast cancer 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide is indicated for the adjuvant 
treatment of patients with: 
 
 
operable node-positive breast cancer 
operable node-negative breast cancer 
For patients with operable node-negative breast cancer, adjuvant treatment should be restricted to 
patients eligible to receive chemotherapy according to internationally established criteria for primary 
therapy of early breast cancer (see SmPC section 5.1). 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with doxorubicin is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have not previously received cytotoxic therapy for this 
condition. 
Docetaxel Accord monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic therapy. Previous chemotherapy should have 
included an anthracycline or an alkylating agent. 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with trastuzumab is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
metastatic breast cancer whose tumours over express HER2 and who previously have not received 
chemotherapy for metastatic disease. 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with capecitabine is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic chemotherapy. Previous therapy should 
have included an anthracycline. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Docetaxel Accord is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic 
non-small cell lung cancer after failure of prior chemotherapy. 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, in patients who have not 
previously received chemotherapy for this condition.  
Prostate cancer 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with prednisone or prednisolone is indicated for the treatment of 
patients with hormone refractory metastatic prostate cancer. 
Gastric adenocarcinoma 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil is indicated for the treatment of 
patients with metastatic gastric adenocarcinoma, including adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal 
junction, who have not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease. 
Head and neck cancer 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil is indicated for the induction 
treatment of patients with locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. 
Docetaxel Accord 
Assessment report 
Page 6/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Docetaxel Accord is presented as a sterile, clear pale yellow to brownish 20 mg/ml solution, available 
in three presentations: 1ml, 4ml and 8 ml. Nominal capacity of the vial is 5ml for the 1 and 4 ml 
presentations, and 10 ml for the 8 ml presentation. 
The concentrate is to be further diluted prior to infusion with either a 5% glucose solution or a 0.9% 
sodium chloride solution to achieve a final concentration of 0.74 mg/ml.  
The excipients used in this formulation are citric acid anhydrous, polysorbate 80, and ethanol 
anhydrous. 
The formulation of this product is qualitatively similar to the reference product Taxotere.  
Active substance 
The active substance is docetaxel, a well known active substance described in the Ph.Eur. Its chemical 
name is 1,7β,10β-Trihydroxy-9-oxo-5β,20-epoxytax-11-ene-2α,4,13α-triyl 4-acetate 2-benzoate 13-
[(2R,3S)-3-[[(1,1-dimethylethoxy)carbonyl]amino]-2-hydroxy-3-phenylpropanoate].  
It is synthesized in the anhydrous form. It is a white to off-white crystalline powder, practically 
insoluble in water; freely soluble in anhydrous ethanol and tetrahydrofuran; and soluble in methylene 
chloride, methanol, acetone and ethylacetate. Its partition coefficient (log P) is 4.26. 
Docetaxel anhydrous has eleven chiral centres resulting in a considerable number of potential 
stereoisomers. Only one isomer as given in the chemical name is defined as the drug substance.  
The chemical structure of the molecule has been established by spectral (UV, IR, 1H and 13C NMR and 
MS) and elemental analysis. 
The active substance exhibits polymorphism. XRD results confirm that the same crystalline form is 
consistently obtained by both manufacturers.  
Manufacture 
Docetaxel  is  manufactured  by  two  different  manufacturers.  The  Active  Substance  Master  File  (ASMF) 
procedure was followed by both of them. 
The  manufacturing  processes  have  been  adequately  described  and  satisfactory  specifications  have 
been  set  for  reagents,  solvents  and  auxiliary  materials  used  in  the  process.  All  critical  in-process 
controls parameters have been well established and justified. 
The analytical methods have been well described and validated according to ICH Q2 (R1).  
One  of  the  manufacturers  packs  docetaxel  active  substance  into  transparent  PE  bags  which  are  tied 
with strip seal and placed in a poly bag tied with a strip seal. These bags are further placed in a black 
PE bag with strip seal and a desiccant between the black bag and the poly bag. The bags are stored in 
HDPE drums. 
The other manufacturer packs the active substance in double LDPE bags sealed with twist ties, which 
are further placed into PE bottles together with a desiccant. 
Docetaxel Accord 
Assessment report 
Page 7/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
Both manufacturers have provided specifications for the bags and have confirmed that the material in 
contact with the drug substance is compliant with 2002/72/EC and Ph. Eur. 3.2.2. 
Specification 
The  specification  of  docetaxel  was  set  to  be  in  line  with  the  current  Ph.Eur.  monograph  and  relevant 
ICH  guidelines.  The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  appearance  of 
solution,  solubility,  identification  (FT-IR,  HPLC),  specific  optical  rotation,  water  content  (Karl  Fisher), 
assay  (HPLC),  related  substances  (HPLC),  residual  solvents  (GC),  heavy  metals,  sulphated  ash,  
bacterial endotoxins and microbial limit test.  
A  discussion  on  potential  impurities  arising  from  the  starting  material,  the  reagents,  the  route  of 
synthesis  or  degradation  has  been  provided.  It  includes  organic  impurities,  inorganic  impurities  and 
residual  solvents.  All  the  impurities  are  controlled  in  the  final  active  substance  specification  in 
accordance  with  the  Ph.Eur.  requirements  and  ICH  Q3A  and  ICH  Q3C  guidelines.  The  impurity  limits 
are acceptable and there is no concern from the point of view of safety. 
The absence of a test for polymorphism in the drug substance specification is justified based on batch 
analysis  data  (X-ray  diffraction)  and  stability  studies  conducted  on  docetaxel  anhydrous  produced  by 
both manufacturers. These studies have confirmed that polymorphic form A is consistently produced by 
the submitted manufacturing processes and is considered as a stable polymorph when protected from 
moisture. 
Batch analysis data from  a minimum of three production scale batches from each manufacturer have 
been  provided.  The  results  confirm  batch-to-batch  consistency  and  compliance  with  the  Ph.  Eur. 
monograph and the additional specification. 
Stability 
Data  from  stability  studies  on  a  minimum  of  three  production  scale  batches  have  been  provided. 
Samples were stored for up to 12 months (one manufacturer) or 48 months (the other manufacturer) 
under  long  term  conditions  and  for  6  months  under  accelerated  conditions  in  accordance  with  ICH 
requirements.    All  batches  have  been  tested  for  conformance  with  the  specification  using  stability 
indicating analytical methods. In all cases the batch analysis data met the predefined specification and 
no significant changes were observed. 
In  addition  stability  data  have  been  provided  under  stress  conditions  (heat,  acid  hydrolysis,  base 
hydrolysis, photo degradation, water hydrolysis and hydrogen peroxide treatment). 
The  proposed  retest  periods  by  each  active  substance  manufacturer  are  supported  by  the  stability 
results provided. 
2.2.2.  Finished medicinal product 
Docetaxel  Accord  20  mg/ml  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  is  a  sterile,  clear  pale  yellow  to 
brownish  solution.  The  product  is  available  in  1  ml,  2  ml  and  4  ml  clear  glass  vials  presented  with  a 
flurotec plus rubber  stopper and flip-off seal. The flip-off cap is  orange for the 1 ml presentation and 
red for the 4ml and 8 ml presentations. 
Pharmaceutical development 
The  pharmaceutical  development  was  aimed  at  developing  a  stable  injectable  solution  similar  to 
Taxotere single vial of 20 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion.  
Docetaxel Accord 
Assessment report 
Page 8/14
 
 
 
 
The formulation of Docetaxel Accord is qualitatively similar to that of the innovator product Taxotere. 
The  excipients  used  in  the  formulation  are  polysorbate  80,  citric  acid  anhydrous  and  ethanol 
anhydrous.  Anhydrous  Citric Acid is  used  as  antioxidant  and  pH  adjusting  agent,  polysorbate  80  as  a 
solubilizer,  and  anhydrous  ethanol  as  a  solvent.  All  the  excipients  employed  are  widely  used  in 
parenteral dosage forms and comply with the Ph. Eur. 
The active substance is insoluble in water and solubilisation is achieved by adding a surfactant, 
polysorbate 80, to the formulation. At the levels which occur in the concentrate and in infusion 
solutions, polysorbate 80 forms micelles which solubilise docetaxel and precipitation of the drug in 
aqueous solution does not occur. Considering the micellar nature of the product, it was important to 
characterise the micelle solution and compare it to the reference product prior to administration, i.e., 
in the infusion bag. The characterisation of the micelle solution included the determination of the 
micelle size distribution, critical micelle concentration, osmolality and in vitro release of docetaxel from 
the micellar solution prior to administration. 
The results of these studies have shown the similarity of both products with regards to micellar 
characteristics. Considering these comparable in vitro results and the similarity of this generic 
formulation to the formulation of the reference product, it is considered that taken together, these 
findings can be used to support a biowaiver for this ‘complex’ injectable. 
Adventitious agents 
None of the excipients used in the formulation of Docetaxel Accord concentrate for solution for infusion 
are of animal or human origin. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process has been sufficiently described. It comprises four main steps: formulation 
of the bulk solution, double sterile filtration (0.22 µm), aseptic filling of the solution into sterile vials, 
stoppering and sealing. The drug product is aseptically manufactured as it is not stable at high 
temperature to allow final sterilization.  
Several studies have been conducted to optimise the manufacturing process i.e. evaluation of the 
order of the addition of the excipients, optimisation of excipient concentration, selection of inert gas 
and bulk holding times. 
Several in-process controls such us as the determination of the clarity of the citric acid and polysorbate 
80 solution, pH of the bulk solution, bioburden and filter integrity testing prior to filtration, check of fill 
weight and bacterial endotoxin in the vials have been identified.  
Batch analysis data on twelve batches (four of each presentation) have confirmed that the defined 
process reliably produces a product which meets the proposed release specification. 
Product specification  
The specification for Docetaxel Accord 20 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion include tests for: 
description, identification (TLC and HPLC), pH, extractable volume, particulate contamination 
(subvisible particles), sterility, assay (HPLC), related substances (HPLC), bacterial endotoxins, ethanol 
content, colour of solution, and clarity of solution. 
The non-compendial analytical methods have been well described and validated in agreement with ICH 
guidelines.  
Docetaxel Accord 
Assessment report 
Page 9/14
 
 
 
 
Stability of the product 
Stability studies have been performed under long-term (25°C /60%RH, 15 months), intermediate 
(30°C/65% RH, 12 months) and accelerated (40°C /75%RH, 6 months) ICH conditions. Stability 
studies have been performed on four primary stability batches of the finished product. The tests 
performed were description, pH, particulate contamination (sub visible), sterility, bacterial endotoxins, 
assay, related substances, ethanol content, color of solution and clarity of solution. 
Based  on  the  stability  data  provided,  the  proposed  shelf  life  and  storage  conditions  as  defined  in  the 
SmPC are acceptable. 
2.2.3.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
The active substance and finished product have been adequately described. The finished product is 
manufactured using a non-standard process. Sufficient validation data has been provided to assure 
that the process is robust and well controlled and produces a uniform product. The medicinal product 
consists of a micellar solution. The composition of the generic formulation is qualitatively identical and 
quantitatively nearly identical to the innovator product Taxotere concentrate for solution for infusion. 
Development of the generic product was based on the formulation, dosage form, concentration and use 
of the reference product Taxotere. No bioequivalence study has been submitted by the applicant to 
demonstrate the pharmaceutical equivalence of their product to the reference medicinal product. 
Comparative experimental data regarding the physicochemical characteristics (e.g. micelle size 
distribution, critical micellar concentration, in vitro release of docetaxel from the micellar solution) in 
the product ready to use (after dilution with 0.9% sodium chloride or 5% glucose) and impurity profile 
have been provided. No significant difference was observed from the comparative studies between the 
generic product and the reference product. 
Therefore, similarity between Docetaxel Accord and the reference product Taxotere can be accepted 
and no human bioequivalence study has been considered necessary in this particular case. 
2.2.4.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
2.3.  Non- clinical aspects   
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity 
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
Docetaxel Accord 
Assessment report 
Page 10/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/Environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Docetaxel Accord manufactured by Accord Healthcare Ltd. is considered unlikely to 
result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all docetaxel containing products 
and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar 
and not increased. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
The applicant provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as 
well as efficacy and safety of docetaxel based on published literature. The SmPC is in line with the 
SmPC of the reference product. 
No formal scientific advice by the CHMP was given for this medicinal product.  
Exemption  
No bioequivalence studies have been conducted. The Applicant outlined that Docetaxel Accord is a 
micelle solution for intravenous administration and, according to the Guideline on the investigation of 
Bioequivalence (CPMP/QWP/EWP/1401/98/Rev 1), micelle formulations may be eligible for biowaiver if 
rapid disassembly of the micelle on dilution occurs, the method and rate of administration is the same 
as the reference medicinal product and the excipients do not affect the disposition of the drug 
substance.  
As Docetaxel Accord is administered as an aqueous solution for infusion, no comparative dissolution 
data have been generated. However, given that the drug substance is not very soluble and that a 
surfactant is used for solubilising the drug substance as micelles in the solution / infusion solution, the 
applicant has performed a comparative study of the release of docetaxel from micelles, between both 
formulations (Taxotere and Docetaxel Accord). Free fraction of [3H]-docetaxel was determined using 
one equilibrium dialysis system in 5% glucose solution at initial and after 7 days when stored in a 
refrigerator. The results confirmed that release profiles of Docetaxel Accord and Taxotere are 
comparable (see Quality section). 
Therefore, no additional human bioequivalence study was considered necessary in this particular case.. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
No new pharmacokinetic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application. 
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
Docetaxel Accord 
Assessment report 
Page 11/14
 
 
 
 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature with regard to clinical data of Docetaxel Accord was provided and was 
accepted by the CHMP. The summary of literature referred to the proposed indications: 
Breast cancer 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide is indicated for the adjuvant 
treatment of patients with: 
 
 
operable node-positive breast cancer 
operable node-negative breast cancer . 
For patients with operable node-negative breast cancer, adjuvant treatment should be restricted to 
patients eligible to receive chemotherapy according to internationally established criteria for primary 
therapy of early breast cancer (see SmPC section 5.1). 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with doxorubicin is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have not previously received cytotoxic therapy for this 
condition. 
Docetaxel Accord monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic therapy. Previous chemotherapy should have 
included an anthracycline or an alkylating agent. 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with trastuzumab is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
metastatic breast cancer whose tumours over express HER2 and who previously have not received 
chemotherapy for metastatic disease. 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with capecitabine is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic chemotherapy. Previous therapy should 
have included an anthracycline. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Docetaxel Accord is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic 
non-small cell lung cancer after failure of prior chemotherapy. 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, in patients who have not 
previously received chemotherapy for this condition.  
Prostate cancer 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with prednisone or prednisolone is indicated for the treatment of 
patients with hormone refractory metastatic prostate cancer. 
Gastric adenocarcinoma 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil is indicated for the treatment of 
patients with metastatic gastric adenocarcinoma, including adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal 
junction, who have not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease. 
Head and neck cancer 
Docetaxel Accord in combination with cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil is indicated for the induction 
treatment of patients with locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. 
Docetaxel Accord 
Assessment report 
Page 12/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This is in accordance with the relevant guideline and additional clinical studies were not considered 
necessary. 
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk management plan 
The CHMP did not require the applicant to submit a Risk Management Plan because the active 
substance docetaxel has been in use for many years and has a well-established safety profile. Routine 
pharmacovigilance activities in accordance with EU regulations will be undertaken whilst the product is 
authorised. The application is based on a reference medicinal product for which no safety concerns 
requiring additional risk minimisation activities have been identified. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that routine pharmacovigilance 
was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
PSUR submission 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product, which 
currently is on a 3-yearly cycle. The next data lock point for the reference medicinal product is 
30 November 2013. 
User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the 
basis of a bridging report making reference to Docetaxel 20 and 80 mg concentrate and solvent for 
solution for infusion approved through a decentralized procedure. Moreover, the proposed package 
leaflet (PL) of Docetaxel Accord 20 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion is same as the PL of the 
reference medicinal product Taxotere concentrate for solution for infusion. 
The bridging report submitted by the applicant has been found acceptable. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance  
This application concerns a generic version of docetaxel concentrate for solution for infusion. The 
reference product Taxotere is indicated for the treatment of breast cancer, non-small lung cancer, 
prostate cancer, gastric adenocarcinoma, head and neck cancer. No non-clinical studies have been 
provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available nonclinical information for the 
active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical perspective, this application 
does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and 
safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical aspects based on 
information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
As Docetaxel Accord is administered as an aqueous solution for infusion, no comparative dissolution 
data have been generated. However, given that the drug substance is not very soluble and that a 
Docetaxel Accord 
Assessment report 
Page 13/14
 
 
 
 
 
surfactant is used for solubilising the drug substance as micelles in the solution / infusion solution, the 
applicant has performed a comparative study of the release of docetaxel from micelles, between both 
formulations (Taxotere and Docetaxel Accord). Free fraction of [3H]-docetaxel was determined using 
one equilibrium dialysis system in 5% glucose solution at initial and after 7 days when stored in a 
refrigerator. The results confirmed that release profiles of Docetaxel Accord and Taxotere are 
comparable. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Docetaxel Accord in the treatment of breast cancer, non-small lung 
cancer, prostate cancer, gastric adenocarcinoma, head and neck cancer is favourable and therefore 
recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Pharmacovigilance System  
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
Risk management system  
Not applicable 
PSUR cycle 
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow PSURs submission schedule for the reference medicinal 
product. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable 
Docetaxel Accord 
Assessment report 
Page 14/14
 
 
 
 
 
 
