EMA/231376/2020 
EMEA/H/C/002325 
Docetaxel Kabi (docetaxel) 
An overview of Docetaxel Kabi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Docetaxel Kabi and what is it used for? 
Docetaxel Kabi is a cancer medicine used to treat the following types of cancer: 
• 
breast cancer. Docetaxel Kabi can be used on its own after other treatments have failed. It can 
also be used with other cancer medicines (capecitabine, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin or 
trastuzumab) in patients who have not yet received treatment for their cancer or after other 
treatments have failed, depending on the type and stage of the breast cancer being treated; 
•  non-small-cell lung cancer. Docetaxel Kabi can be used on its own after other treatments have 
failed. It can also be used with cisplatin (another cancer medicine) in patients who have not yet 
received any treatment for their cancer; 
• 
prostate cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic). Docetaxel Kabi is used 
with androgen-deprivation therapy (therapy greatly reducing the body’s production of 
testosterone) when such treatment still works. Docetaxel Kabi is used with prednisone or 
prednisolone (anti-inflammatory medicines) when the cancer is castration resistant (androgen-
deprivation therapy does not work); 
•  metastatic gastric adenocarcinoma (a stomach cancer) in patients who have not yet received any 
treatment for metastatic cancer. Docetaxel Kabi is used with cisplatin and fluorouracil (other 
cancer medicines); 
•  head and neck cancer in patients whose cancer is locally advanced (a cancer that has grown but 
has not spread). Docetaxel Kabi is used with cisplatin and fluorouracil. 
Docetaxel Kabi is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Docetaxel Kabi is similar to a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Taxotere. For more information on 
generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
Docetaxel Kabi contains the active substance docetaxel.  
How is Docetaxel Kabi used? 
Docetaxel Kabi can only be obtained with a prescription and should only be used in units specialising in 
giving chemotherapy (medicines to treat cancer) under the supervision of a doctor who is qualified in 
the use of chemotherapy. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European 
Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Docetaxel Kabi is given as a 1-hour infusion every 3 weeks. The dose, duration of treatment and the 
medicines it is used with depend on the type of cancer being treated and the patient’s weight and 
height. An anti-inflammatory medicine such as dexamethasone should also be given to the patient, 
starting on the day before the Docetaxel Kabi infusion. The dose of Docetaxel Kabi may need to be 
reduced, or treatment interrupted or discontinued, if the patient develops certain side effects. 
For more information about using Docetaxel Kabi, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist.  
How does Docetaxel Kabi work? 
The active substance in Docetaxel Kabi, docetaxel, belongs to the group of cancer medicines known as 
taxanes. Docetaxel blocks the ability of cells to break down the internal ‘skeleton’ that allows them to 
divide. With the skeleton still in place, the cells cannot divide and they eventually die. Because 
docetaxel works on dividing cells, it affects non-cancer cells such as blood cells, which can cause side 
effects. 
How has Docetaxel Kabi been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Taxotere, and do not need to be repeated for Docetaxel Kabi.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Docetaxel Kabi. There was no 
need for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Docetaxel Kabi is absorbed similarly to the 
reference medicine to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This is because 
Docetaxel Kabi is given by infusion into a vein, so the active substance is delivered straight into the 
bloodstream. 
What are the benefits and risks of Docetaxel Kabi? 
Because Docetaxel Kabi is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the 
reference medicine’s. 
Why is Docetaxel Kabi authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Docetaxel Kabi 
has been shown to be comparable to Taxotere. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Taxotere, 
the benefits of Docetaxel Kabi outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Docetaxel Kabi? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Docetaxel Kabi have been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Docetaxel Kabi are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Docetaxel Kabi are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Docetaxel Kabi 
Docetaxel Kabi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 22 May 2012. 
Docetaxel Kabi (docetaxel)  
EMA/231376/2020  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Further information on Docetaxel Kabi can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/docetaxel-kabi. Information on the reference medicine can 
also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 04-2020. 
Docetaxel Kabi (docetaxel)  
EMA/231376/2020  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
