15 March 2012 
EMA/305675/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Docetaxel Kabi 
International non-proprietary name: docetaxel 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002325 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents   
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 7 
2.3. Non- clinical aspects ......................................................................................... 11 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 12 
2.5. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 13 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 14 
Recommendation
4. 
................................................................................. 15 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation ......................................... 15 
Docetaxel Kabi 
Assessment report  
Page 2/15
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
GC: Gas chromatography 
HPLC: High-performance liquid chromatography 
IR: Infrared spectroscopy 
LDPE: Low-density polyethylene 
XRD: X-ray diffraction 
Docetaxel Kabi 
Assessment report  
Page 3/15
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Fresenius Kabi Oncology Plc submitted on 31 May 2011 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Docetaxel Kabi, through the centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised 
product’. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 26 May 
2010. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has been 
granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 
2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication treatment of breast cancer, non-small cell lung 
cancer, prostate cancer, gastric adenocarcinoma, head and neck cancer. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information and complete quality data with 
the reference medicinal product Taxotere instead of non-clinical and clinical unless justified otherwise.  
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
The chosen reference product is: 
■  
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Taxotere 20 mg/0.5 ml and 80 mg/2 ml concentrate 
and solvent for solution for infusion, Taxotere 80 mg/2 ml concentrate and solvent for solution for 
infusion, Taxotere 20 mg/1 ml concentrate for solution for infusion, Taxotere 80 mg/4 ml concentrate 
for solution for infusion, Taxotere 160 mg/8 ml concentrate for solution for infusion     
Marketing authorisation holder: Aventis Pharma S.A., France      
Date of authorisation:  27 November 1995 
Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
Community Marketing authorisation number:  EU/1/95/002/001 - 005 
■  
Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made 
or European reference medicinal product:  
Product name, strength, and pharmaceutical form: Taxotere 20 mg/1 ml concentrate for solution for 
infusion, Taxotere 80 mg/4 ml concentrate for solution for infusion, Taxotere 160 mg/8 ml concentrate 
for solution for infusion    Marketing authorisation holder: Aventis Pharma S.A., France     
Docetaxel Kabi 
Assessment report  
Page 4/15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date of authorisation:  27 November 1995 
Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/95/002/003 - 005 
Scientific advice  
 The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was Pierre Demolis. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 31 May 2011.  
The procedure started on 22 June 2011. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 10 
September 2011. 
During the meeting on 17 – 20 October 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 21 October 2011. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 30 
November 2011. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 30 January 2012.  
During the CHMP meeting on 13-16 February 2012, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 
22 February 2012. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 8 March 2012.  
During the meeting on 12-15 March 2012, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
Marketing Authorisation to Docetaxel Kabi on 15 March 2012.  
Docetaxel Kabi 
Assessment report  
Page 5/15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Docetaxel Kabi concentrate for solution for infusion is a generic medicinal product containing the active 
substance docetaxel. The reference medicinal product is Taxotere concentrate for solution for infusion 
authorised on 27 November 1995. 
Docetaxel is an antineoplastic agent that acts by promoting the assembly of tubulin into stable 
microtubulues and inhibits their assembly, which leads to a decrease of free tubulin and to cancer 
death. 
The safety and efficacy profile of docetaxel for the treatment of breast cancer, non-small cell lung 
cancer, prostate cancer, gastric adenocarcinoma and head and neck cancer has been demonstrated in 
several clinical trials for the reference medicinal product. In addition, there is a long-term post-
marketing experience contributing to the knowledge of the clinical use of this active substance. 
The indications for Docetaxel Kabi are identical to the indications of Taxotere and are as follows: 
Breast cancer 
Docetaxel Kabi in combination with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide is indicated for the adjuvant 
treatment of patients with: 
 
 
operable node-positive breast cancer 
operable node-negative breast cancer 
For patients with operable node-negative breast cancer, adjuvant treatment should be restricted to 
patients eligible to receive chemotherapy according to internationally established criteria for primary 
therapy of early breast cancer. 
Docetaxel Kabi in combination with doxorubicin is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have not previously received cytotoxic therapy for this 
condition. 
Docetaxel Kabi monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic therapy. Previous chemotherapy should have 
included an anthracycline or an alkylating agent. 
Docetaxel Kabi in combination with trastuzumab is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
metastatic breast cancer whose tumours over express HER2 and who previously have not received 
chemotherapy for metastatic disease. 
Docetaxel Kabi in combination with capecitabine is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic chemotherapy. Previous therapy should 
have included an anthracycline. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Docetaxel Kabi is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small 
cell lung cancer after failure of prior chemotherapy. 
Docetaxel Kabi in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, in patients who have not 
previously received chemotherapy for this condition. 
Docetaxel Kabi 
Assessment report  
Page 6/15
 
 
 
 
Prostate cancer 
Docetaxel Kabi in combination with prednisone or prednisolone is indicated for the treatment of 
patients with hormone refractory metastatic prostate cancer. 
Gastric adenocarcinoma 
Docetaxel Kabi in combination with cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil is indicated for the treatment of patients 
with metastatic gastric adenocarcinoma, including adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction, 
who have not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease. 
Head and neck cancer 
Docetaxel Kabi in combination with cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil is indicated for the induction treatment 
of patients with locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Docetaxel KABI is a clear, colourless to pale yellow solution, supplied in vials as a sterile concentrate 
for solution for infusion at 20 mg/ml, available in four presentations: 4 ml, 6 ml, 8 ml and 9 ml 
corresponding to 80 mg, 120 mg, 160 mg and 180 mg of anhydrous docetaxel. The concentrate is to 
be diluted with 0.9 % sodium chloride solution or 5 % glucose solution prior to infusion. 
The excipients used in the formulation are polysorbate 80, anhydrous citric acid and ethanol anhydrous. 
The formulation of this product is similar to the reference product Taxotere.  
2.2.2.  Active substance 
Docetaxel is an efficient inhibitor of eukaryotic cell replication, blocking cells in the late G2-M phase of 
the cell cycle. It promotes abnormal assembly of microtubules via stabilization. Docetaxel INN is N-
Debenzoyl-N-(tert-butoxycarbonyl)-10-deacetyltaxol. 
Docetaxel anhydrous is a white or almost white crystalline powder practically insoluble in water, freely 
soluble in anhydrous ethanol, soluble in methylene chloride. Docetaxel anhydrous is considered 
hygroscopic and it is optically active.  
The docetaxel molecule can be divided into two parts; the side chain and the taxol skeleton. The side 
chain of docetaxel contains two chiral centres (2R, 3S). Taxol skeleton consists of three fused rings 
with nine chiral centres, two six-membered rings and an eight-membered ring and peripheral 
functionality. 
Docetaxel exhibits polymorphism consisting of single crystalline morphological form with yielding 
consistent IR spectra and XRD patterns in three validation batches. 
Manufacture 
Docetaxel is manufactured by a single manufacturer and the Active Substance Master File (ASMF) 
procedure was followed for this site. The route of synthesis was briefly described in the open part but 
the detailed information was provided in the restricted part of the ASMF. The process was acceptably 
described in the ASMF. 
Docetaxel Kabi 
Assessment report  
Page 7/15
 
 
 
 
 
Specification 
The specification for docetaxel includes tests for appearance (visual inspection), appearance of solution 
(visual inspection), solubility (visual inspection), identification (IR), identification (specific optical 
rotation), water (Ph. Eur), heavy metals (visual inspection), sulphated ash , assay (HPLC), related 
substances (HPLC), total aerobic microbial count, bacterial endotoxins (Ph. Eur.), residual solvents 
(GC). 
The specification limits for the active substance are based on the monograph for docetaxel anhydrous 
in the European Pharmacopoeia and ICH Q6A recommendations. 
Impurities have been evaluated and found to be acceptable from the point of view of safety.  
The methods are described satisfactorily. 
Results of analysis have been provided on three validation batches. All batches comply with the 
specifications. 
Stability 
Docetaxel  in  double  packed  in  a  food  grade  LDPE  zipper  bag,  which  is  further  packed  in  a  LDPE  bag 
and  heat  sealed.  The  material  is  then  placed  in  a  triple  laminated  Aluminium  pouch  and  heat  sealed. 
The  pouch  is  finally  packed  in  an  opaque  fibre-board  drum.  The  specifications  for  the  packaging 
materials have been provided and are in compliance with the Ph. Eur. monograph for polyolefines and 
the EU directive (2002/72/EC). 
Stability studies were conducted on three validation batches and stored at accelerated (25°C ± 2°C, 60 
± 5 % RH) and long term (2°C-8°C) conditions. 
Based on six months accelerated (25°C±2°C, 60 ± 5 % RH) and long term (2°C to 8°C) stability data, 
it is concluded that docetaxel is a stable drug substance when stored at proposed storage condition. 
The parameters tested included appearance, identification, assay, purity, specific rotation, microbial 
test and water content. The stability data supports the retest period.  
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Docetaxel Kabi is a clear, colourless to pale yellow solution, supplied in vials as a sterile, concentrate 
for  solution  for  infusion  containing  80  mg/4  ml,  120  mg/6  ml,  160  mg/8  ml  or  180  mg/9  ml  of  drug 
substance  Docetaxel.  The  proposed  medicinal  product  is  intended  for  dilution  before  infusion  into  an 
infusion  bag  containing  0.9%  sodium  chloride  solution  or  5%  dextrose  solution  to  give  the  final 
solution for infusion (between 0.3 mg/ml to 0.74 mg/ml of docetaxel). 
The medicinal product comprises the following excipients: purified polysorbate 80, ethanol anhydrous 
and anhydrous citric acid. 
Docetaxel concentrate for solution for infusion is filled in a 6 ml or 10 ml colourless Ph.Eur. Type-I 
glass vial, closed with a 20 mm flurotec rubber stopper and sealed with flip-off aluminium seal. 
Pharmaceutical development 
Development of the drug product is based on the formulation, dosage form, concentration and use of 
the reference product Taxotere. 
Docetaxel Kabi 
Assessment report  
Page 8/15
 
 
 
 
 
Taxotere is presented as a concentrate for solution for infusion, available in three dosages of docetaxel 
trihydrate corresponding to 20 mg, 80 mg and 160 mg per vial of anhydrous docetaxel in a solution of 
ethanol/polysorbate 80 (50/50).  
The drug product is presented as a concentrate for solution for infusion, available in four dosages 
corresponding to 80 mg/4 ml, 120 mg/6 ml, 160 mg/8 ml and 180 mg/9 ml of anhydrous docetaxel.  
The composition of the generic formulation is qualitatively identical to the reference product.  The 
concentration of Polysorbate 80 in the finished product is the same as that of the reference product. 
Docetaxel is dissolved in a mixture of Polysorbate 80 and dehydrated alcohol in both the generic and 
reference products.  
The aim of the formulation development was to develop the medicinal product as a stable sterile 
concentrate. It was therefore decided to solubilise the drug substance in an aqueous micellar system. 
Moreover, dilutions in 0.9% sodium chloride or in 5% glucose had also to be stable.  
It was determined that the impurity profile of docetaxel concentrate for solution was adequate, and 
comparable to that of reference product Taxotere, when the product was prepared using purified 
polysorbate 80 with pH adjustment using citric acid. The Committee recommends conducting additional 
stability studies on one batch of drug product prepared with purified Polysorbate 80 having specified 
quality characteristics and comparing the generic product to the reference product. This request is 
included in the list of recommendations. 
Aseptic processing including sterile filtration was selected for the manufacture of the sterile medicinal 
product. The active substance was dissolved in a mixture of dehydrated alcohol and purified 
polysorbate 80 followed by addition of anhydrous citric acid. 
Given the poor solubility of docetaxel in the infusion fluids 0.9% sodium chloride and 5% dextrose, the 
formation of micelles in the final solution for infusion, their size and size distribution as well as their 
stability over time, are important factors for the bioavailability of docetaxel. Moreover, to fully establish 
the similarity after dilution between proposed product and reference product Taxotere, the micelle 
characteristics were assessed and compared. The mean size and size distribution of the dispersed 
micelles in the generic product were found to be similar to that in the reference product. It has also 
been confirmed that the active substance is fully solubilised upon dilution. 
The results of the studies showed the similarity of both products with regards to micellar 
characteristics. Considering these comparable in vitro results and the similarity of this generic 
formulation to the formulation of the reference product, it was considered that taken together, these 
findings could be used to support a biowaiver for this ‘complex’ injectable. 
Adventitious agents 
None of the excipients used in the formulation of docetaxel concentrate for solution for infusion are of 
human or animal origin. 
Manufacture of the product 
Manufacturing process of Docetaxel 20 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion is classified as non-
standard.  The  manufacturing  process  consists  of  four  main  steps:  preparation  of  the  bulk  solution, 
sterile filtration (0.2 µm), aseptic filling, followed by closing the vials and packaging. The drug product 
is aseptically manufactured as it is not stable at high temperature to allow final sterilization. 
Docetaxel Kabi 
Assessment report  
Page 9/15
 
 
 
 
 
The  manufacturing  process  validation  has  been  performed  using  three  bulk  finished  product  batches 
and  was  successfully  completed.  All  parameters  assessed  during  all  stages  of  manufacturing  from 
compounding to visual inspection of the sealed vials were within the specified criteria. 
Product specification  
The specifications for Docetaxel 20 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion include test for: 
appearance of solution (visual examination), identification of docetaxel (HPLC and UV), pH (Ph.Eur.), 
water content (Karl Fisher), ethanol content (GC), extractable volume (Ph.Eur.), colourimetry (UV 
visible), particulate contamination (Ph.Eur.), sterility (Ph.Eur.), bacterial Endotoxins (Ph.Eur.), seal 
integrity test (visual examination), related substances (HPLC), assay (HPLC).  
The limits for the related substances are based on drug substance specification on the 
recommendations of ICH Q3B (R2) and are compliant with the requirement of CPMP/ICH/2738/99 
‘Note for guidance on impurities in new drug products’. 
The specification for docetaxel content meets the requirements of Directive 2003/63/EC section 3.2.2.5 
‘Control of the finished medicinal products’. All other specifications comply with the Eur. Ph. 
The routine specifications and tests methods proposed for the drug product adequately control the 
quality of the product. 
Batch results were provided for three bulk batches of the finished product. The results are in 
compliance with the proposed specification. 
Stability of the product 
Stability studies were performed under ICH long-term and accelerated conditions (25°C/60% RH, and 
40°C/75% RH). Stability studies were performed on 12 prospective process validation batches (3 
batches for each strength prepared from full scale solution batches).  
Compatibility with infusion solvents and respective storage instructions were adequately addressed. 
The results indicate that the mean size and size distribution of the dispersed micelles in the generic 
product are similar to that in the reference product and indicate that the amount of drug solubilised in 
the diluted generic product is similar to that in the diluted reference product. 
In summary, the stability results support the shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the SmPC. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
The active substance and finished product have been adequately described. The finished product is 
manufactured using a non-standard process. Sufficient validation data has been provided to assure 
that the process is robust and well controlled and produces a uniform product. The medicinal product 
consists of a micellar solution, i.e., the active substance is solubilised in surfactant micelles. The 
composition of the generic formulation is qualitatively identical and quantitatively practically identical 
to the innovator product Taxotere concentrate for solution for infusion. The development of the generic 
product was based on the formulation, dosage form, concentration and use of the reference product 
Taxotere. No bioequivalence study has been submitted by the applicant to demonstrate the 
pharmaceutical equivalence of their product to the originator.  
Comparative experimental data regarding the physicochemical parameters and impurity profile before 
and after dilution in the two solvents recommended in the SmPC and in particular, mean size, size 
Docetaxel Kabi 
Assessment report  
Page 10/15
 
 
 
 
 
distribution and stability of the micelles that are formed in the final solution before intravenous 
administration, according to the recommendation described in the SmPC, have been compared. 
Moreover, comparative plasma protein binding study of the generic and reference product was also 
performed in human plasma. No significant difference was observed from the comparative studies 
between the generic product and the reference product. 
Therefore, similarity between Docetaxel Kabi and the reference product Taxotere can be accepted and 
no human bioequivalence study was considered necessary in this particular case. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
The CHMP has identified the following measures necessary to address the identified quality 
developments issues that may have a potential impact on the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product: 
2.2.6.  Recommendation for future quality development   
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, 
the CHMP recommends the following points for investigation: 
The CHMP recommends that additional stability studies are performed on one batch of drug product 
prepared with purified Polysorbate 80 having specified quality characteristics and compared to the 
stability of the reference product. 
2.3.  Non- clinical aspects   
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity 
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Docetaxel Kabi manufactured by Fresenius Kabi Oncology Plc is considered unlikely to 
result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all docetaxel containing products 
and the exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar 
and not increased. 
Docetaxel Kabi 
Assessment report  
Page 11/15
 
 
 
 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
The applicant provided a clinical overview outlining the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as 
well as efficacy and safety of docetaxel based on published literature. The SmPC is in line with the 
SmPC of the reference product. 
No formal scientific advice by the CHMP was given for this medicinal product.  
Exemption  
Comparative experimental data regarding the physicochemical parameters and impurity profile before 
and after dilution in the two solvents recommended in the SmPC, in particular, mean size, size 
distribution and stability of the micelles that are formed in the final solution before intravenous 
administration have been compared. Moreover, comparative plasma protein binding study of the 
generic and reference product was also performed in human plasma. No significant difference was 
observed from the comparative studies between the generic product and the reference product (see 
Quality section). 
Therefore, similarity between Docetaxel Kabi and the reference product Taxotere can be accepted and 
no additional human bioequivalence study was considered necessary in this particular case. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
No new pharmacokinetic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application. 
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature with regard to clinical data of Docetaxel Kabi was provided accepted by 
the CHMP. The summary of literature referred to the proposed indications: 
Breast cancer 
Docetaxel Kabi in combination with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide is indicated for the adjuvant 
treatment of patients with: 
 
 
operable node-positive breast cancer 
operable node-negative breast cancer 
For patients with operable node-negative breast cancer, adjuvant treatment should be restricted to 
patients eligible to receive chemotherapy according to internationally established criteria for primary 
therapy of early breast cancer (see section 5.1). 
Docetaxel Kabi 
Assessment report  
Page 12/15
 
 
 
 
Docetaxel Kabi in combination with doxorubicin is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have not previously received cytotoxic therapy for this 
condition. 
Docetaxel Kabi monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or 
metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic therapy. Previous chemotherapy should have 
included an anthracycline or an alkylating agent. 
Docetaxel Kabi in combination with trastuzumab is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
metastatic breast cancer whose tumours over express HER2 and who previously have not received 
chemotherapy for metastatic disease. 
Docetaxel Kabi in combination with capecitabine is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic chemotherapy. Previous therapy should 
have included an anthracycline. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Docetaxel Kabi is indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small 
cell lung cancer after failure of prior chemotherapy. 
Docetaxel Kabi in combination with cisplatin is indicated for the treatment of patients with 
unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, in patients who have not 
previously received chemotherapy for this condition. 
Prostate cancer 
Docetaxel Kabi in combination with prednisone or prednisolone is indicated for the treatment of 
patients with hormone refractory metastatic prostate cancer. 
Gastric adenocarcinoma 
Docetaxel Kabi in combination with cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil is indicated for the treatment of patients 
with metastatic gastric adenocarcinoma, including adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction, 
who have not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic disease. 
Head and neck cancer 
Docetaxel Kabi in combination with cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil is indicated for the induction treatment 
of patients with locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. 
This is in accordance with the relevant guideline and additional clinical studies were not considered 
necessary. 
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk management plan 
The current application concerns the product docetaxel, an active substance that has been in use for 
many years, and which has a well-established safety profile. Routine pharmacovigilance activities in 
Docetaxel Kabi 
Assessment report  
Page 13/15
 
 
 
 
 
accordance with EU regulations will be undertaken whilst the product is authorised, including review of 
individual case safety reports, literature review, signal detection procedures and generation of the 
required safety reports. Specific additional risk minimisation activities are not envisaged as the safety 
profile of the medicinal product is well-established, and therefore a Risk Minimisation Plan is not 
considered appropriate.  
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that routine pharmacovigilance 
was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
PSUR submission 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product, which 
currently is on a 3-yearly cycle. The next data lock point for the reference medicinal product is 
30 November 2013. 
User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the 
basis of a bridging report and focus test making reference to the Corporate layout of other product of 
similar drug class. The bridging report and focus test submitted by the applicant has been found 
acceptable. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance  
This application concerns a generic version of docetaxel concentrate for solution for infusion. The 
reference product Taxotere is indicated for treatment of breast cancer, non-small lung cancer, prostate 
cancer, gastric adenocarcinoma, head and neck cancer. No nonclinical studies have been provided for 
this application but an adequate summary of the available nonclinical information for the active 
substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical perspective, this application does 
not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and 
safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical aspects based on 
information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
Comparative experimental data regarding the physicochemical parameters and impurity profile before 
and after dilution in the two solvents recommended in the SmPC, in particular, mean size, size 
distribution and stability of the micelles that are formed in the final solution before intravenous 
administration have been compared. Moreover, comparative plasma protein binding study of the 
generic and reference product was also performed in human plasma. No significant difference was 
observed from the comparative studies between the generic product and the reference product (see 
Quality section). 
Therefore,  on the basis of the data submitted, not significant difference are shown between Docetaxel 
Kabi and the reference product Taxotere and therefore these can be accepted and no additional human 
bioequivalence study was considered necessary in this particular case.  
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Docetaxel Kabi 
Assessment report  
Page 14/15
 
 
 
 
 
4. Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Docetaxel Kabi in the in the treatment of breast cancer, non-small lung 
cancer, prostate cancer, gastric adenocarcinoma, head and neck cancer is favourable and therefore 
recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Pharmacovigilance System  
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
Risk management system  
Not applicable 
PSUR cycle 
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow PSURs submission schedule for the reference medicinal 
product. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable. 
Docetaxel Kabi 
Assessment report  
Page 15/15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
