ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS  
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Doptelet 20 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each film-coated tablet contains avatrombopag maleate equivalent to 20 mg of avatrombopag. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each film-coated tablet contains 120.8 mg of lactose monohydrate. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet (tablet). 
Pale yellow, round biconvex film-coated 7.6 mm tablet debossed with “AVA” on one side and “20” on 
the other. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Doptelet is indicated for the treatment of severe thrombocytopenia in adult patients with chronic liver 
disease who are scheduled to undergo an invasive procedure. 
Doptelet is indicated for the treatment of primary chronic immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) in adult 
patients who are refractory to other treatments (e.g., corticosteroids, immunoglobulins). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Treatment should be initiated by and remain under the supervision of a physician who is experienced 
in the treatment of haematological diseases. Doptelet should be taken at the same time of day (e.g., in 
the morning or evening) with food, including when taking the dose less frequently than once daily. 
Chronic liver disease 
Obtain a platelet count prior to the administration of Doptelet therapy and on the day of a procedure to 
ensure an adequate increase in platelet count, and no unexpectedly high increase in platelet count in 
the patient populations specified in sections 4.4 and 4.5. 
The recommended daily dose of avatrombopag is based on the patient’s platelet count (see Table 1). 
Dosing should begin 10 to 13 days prior to the planned procedure. The patient should undergo their 
procedure 5 to 8 days after the last dose of avatrombopag. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Daily dose recommendation for avatrombopag 
Platelet count (×109/L) 
Once-daily dose 
Duration of dosing 
< 40 
60 mg (Three 20 mg tablets) 
≥ 40 to < 50 
40 mg (Two 20 mg tablets) 
5 days 
5 days 
Duration of treatment 
Due to limited information, avatrombopag should not be taken for more than 5 days. 
Missed doses 
If a dose is missed, it should be taken as soon as it is remembered. Two doses should not be taken at 
one time to make up for a missed dose. The next dose should be taken at the usual time the next day. 
Chronic immune thrombocytopenia 
Use the lowest dose of Doptelet needed to achieve and maintain a platelet count ≥ 50 × 109/L as 
necessary to reduce the risk for bleeding. Do not use avatrombopag to normalise platelet counts. In 
clinical trials, platelet counts generally increased within 1 week after starting avatrombopag and 
decreased within 1 to 2 weeks after discontinuation. 
Initial dose regimen 
The recommended starting dose of Doptelet is 20 mg (1 tablet) once daily with food. 
Monitoring and dose adjustment 
After initiating therapy, assess platelet counts at least once weekly until a stable platelet 
count ≥ 50 × 109/L and ≤ 150 × 109/L has been achieved. Twice weekly platelet count monitoring 
should be conducted during the first weeks of therapy in patients receiving avatrombopag only once or 
twice weekly. Twice weekly monitoring should also be conducted after dose adjustments during the 
treatment. 
Due to the potential risk of platelet counts above 400 × 109/L within the first weeks of treatment 
patients should be carefully monitored for any signs or symptoms of thrombocytosis. After a stable 
platelet count has been achieved, obtain platelet counts at least monthly. After discontinuation of 
avatrombopag, platelet counts should be obtained weekly for at least 4 weeks.  
Dose adjustments (see Table 2 and Table 3) are based on the platelet count response. Do not exceed a 
daily dose of 40 mg (2 tablets). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Avatrombopag dose adjustments for patients with primary chronic immune 
thrombocytopenia 
Platelet count (× 109/L) 
Dose adjustment or action 
< 50 after at least 2 weeks of 
avatrombopag treatment 
> 150 and ≤ 250 
> 250 
•  Increase One Dose Level per Table 3. 
•  Wait 2 weeks to assess the effects of this regimen and any 
subsequent dose adjustments. 
•  Decrease One Dose Level per Table 3. 
•  Wait 2 weeks to assess the effects of this regimen and any 
subsequent dose adjustments. 
•  Stop avatrombopag. 
•  Increase platelet monitoring to twice weekly. 
•  When platelet count is less than 100 × 109/L, decrease One 
Dose Level per Table 3 and reinitiate therapy. 
< 50 after 4 weeks of 
avatrombopag 40 mg once daily 
> 250 after 2 weeks of 
avatrombopag 20 mg weekly 
•  Discontinue avatrombopag. 
•  Discontinue avatrombopag. 
Table 3: Avatrombopag dose levels for titration in patients with primary chronic immune 
thrombocytopenia 
Dose≠ 
40 mg once daily 
40 mg three times a week AND 20 mg on the four remaining days of each week 
20 mg once daily* 
20 mg three times a week 
20 mg twice a week OR 40 mg once weekly 
20 mg once weekly 
Dose Level 
6 
5 
4 
3 
2 
1 
*Initial dose regimen for all patients except those taking moderate or strong dual inducers or 
moderate or strong dual inhibitors of CYP2C9 and CYP3A4/5, or of CYP2C9 alone. 
≠ Patients taking avatrombopag less frequently than once daily should take the medicinal product in a 
consistent manner from week to week. 
Dose Level 3: Three non-consecutive days a week, e.g. Monday, Wednesday and Friday 
Dose Level 2: Two non-consecutive days a week, e.g. Monday and Friday 
Dose Level 1: The same day each week, e.g. Monday 
In the case of a missed dose, patients should take the missed dose of avatrombopag as soon as they 
remember. Patients should not take two doses at one time to make up for a missed dose, and should 
take the next dose per the current regimen. 
Avatrombopag can be administered in addition to other ITP medicinal products. Platelet counts should 
be monitored when combining avatrombopag with other medicinal products for the treatment of 
primary ITP in order to avoid platelet counts outside of the recommended range, and to determine 
whether the dose of either medicinal product should be reduced. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinuation 
Discontinue avatrombopag if the platelet count does not increase to ≥ 50 × 109/L after 4 weeks of 
dosing at the maximum dose of 40 mg once daily. Discontinue Doptelet if the platelet count is greater 
than 250 × 109/L after 2 weeks of dosing at 20 mg once weekly. 
Recommended dose with concomitant moderate or strong dual inducers or inhibitors of CYP2C9 and 
CYP3A4/5, or of CYP2C9 alone, in patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia 
The recommended starting doses of avatrombopag in patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia 
receiving concomitant medicinal products are summarised in Table 4.  
Table 4: Avatrombopag recommended starting dose for patients with primary chronic immune 
thrombocytopenia based on concomitant medications 
Concomitant medicinal products 
Recommended starting dose 
Moderate or strong dual inhibitors of CYP2C9 and 
CYP3A4/5, or of CYP2C9 alone (e.g., fluconazole) 
20 mg (1 tablet) three times a week 
Moderate or strong dual inducers of CYP2C9 and 
CYP3A4/5, or of CYP2C9 alone (e.g., rifampicin, 
enzalutamide) 
40 mg (2 tablets) once daily 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required for patients aged 65 years and older (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
Avatrombopag is not renally excreted, therefore no dose adjustment is required in patients with mild 
or moderate renal impairment. Avatrombopag has not been studied in patients with severe renal 
impairment (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with mild (Child-Pugh class A) to moderate (Child-Pugh 
class B) hepatic impairment.  
Due to limited information available, the safety and efficacy of avatrombopag in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C, MELD score > 24) have not been established (see 
section 4.4). No dose adjustment is expected for these patients. Avatrombopag therapy should only be 
initiated in patients with severe hepatic impairment if the expected benefit outweighs the expected 
risks (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).  
Coexisting medical conditions 
Due to limited or no information available, the safety and efficacy of avatrombopag in adult patients 
with chronic ITP and human immunodeficiency virus [HIV], hepatitis C virus [HCV] or subjects with 
known systemic lupus erythematosus, acute hepatitis, active chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis, 
lymphoproliferative disease, myeloproliferative disorders, leukemia, myelodysplasia (MDS), 
concurrent malignant disease, and significant cardiovascular disease (e.g. Grade III/IV congestive 
heart failure, atrial fibrillation, status post coronary artery bypass or stent placement) have not been 
established. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of avatrombopag in children aged less than 18 years have not been established. 
No data are available. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CYP2C9 loss-of-function polymorphisms 
Avatrombopag exposure may increase in patients with CYP2C9*2 and CYP2C9*3 loss-of-function 
polymorphisms. Healthy subjects (n=2) who were homozygous for these mutations (poor 
metabolizers) had approximately 2-fold higher exposure compared to subjects with wild-type 
CYP2C9. 
Method of administration 
Doptelet is for oral use, and the tablets should be taken with food (see section 5.2). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Thrombotic/thromboembolic events 
Patients with chronic liver disease are known to be at increased risk for thromboembolic events. Portal 
vein thrombosis has been reported at an increased frequency in patients with chronic liver disease who 
had platelet counts > 200 × 109/L receiving a thrombopoietin receptor agonist (see section 4.8). In 
patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia, thromboembolic events (arterial or venous) occurred 
in 7% (9/128) of patients receiving avatrombopag (see section 4.8). 
Doptelet was not studied in patients with prior thromboembolic events. Consider the potential 
increased thrombotic risk when administering Doptelet to patients with known risk factors for 
thromboembolism, including but not limited to genetic prothrombotic conditions (e.g. 
Factor V Leiden, Prothrombin 20210A, Antithrombin deficiency or Protein C or S deficiency), 
acquired risk factors (e.g. antiphospholipid syndrome), advanced age, patients with prolonged periods 
of immobilisation, malignancies, contraceptives and hormone replacement therapy, surgery/trauma, 
obesity and smoking. Doptelet should not be administered to patients with chronic liver disease or 
chronic immune thrombocytopenia in an attempt to normalise platelet counts. 
QTc prolongation with concomitant medicinal products 
At exposures similar to that achieved at the 40 mg and 60 mg dose, Doptelet did not prolong the QT 
interval to any clinically relevant extent. Mean QTc prolongation effects > 20 ms are not anticipated 
with the highest recommended therapeutic dosing regimen based on analysis of data from the pooled 
clinical trials in patients with chronic liver disease. However, caution must be exercised when Doptelet 
is co-administered with moderate or strong dual CYP3A4/5 and CYP2C9 inhibitors, or with moderate 
or strong CYP2C9 inhibitors, as these medicinal products can increase avatrombopag exposures. 
Caution must also be exercised in patients with loss-of-function polymorphisms of CYP2C9, as these 
can increase avatrombopag exposure. 
Reoccurrence of thrombocytopenia and bleeding after cessation of treatment in patients with chronic 
immune thrombocytopenia 
Thrombocytopenia is likely to reoccur in ITP patients upon discontinuation of treatment with 
avatrombopag. Following discontinuation of avatrombopag, platelet counts return to baseline levels 
within 2 weeks in the majority of patients, which increases the bleeding risk and in some cases may 
lead to bleeding. There is an increased risk of bleeding if avatrombopag treatment is discontinued in 
the presence of anticoagulants or anti-platelet agents. Patients should be closely monitored for a 
decrease in platelet count and medically managed to avoid bleeding upon discontinuation of treatment 
with avatrombopag. It is recommended that, if treatment with avatrombopag is discontinued, ITP 
treatment be restarted according to current treatment guidelines. Additional medical management may 
include cessation of anticoagulant and/or antiplatelet therapy, reversal of anticoagulation, or platelet 
support. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Increased bone marrow reticulin 
Increased bone marrow reticulin is believed to be a result of TPO receptor stimulation, leading to an 
increased number of megakaryocytes in the bone marrow, which may subsequently release cytokines. 
Increased reticulin may be suggested by morphological changes in the peripheral blood cells and can 
be detected through bone marrow biopsy. Therefore, examinations for cellular morphological 
abnormalities using peripheral blood smear and complete blood count (CBC) prior to and during 
treatment with avatrombopag are recommended. 
If a loss of efficacy and abnormal peripheral blood smear are observed in patients, administration of 
avatrombopag should be discontinued, a physical examination should be performed, and a bone 
marrow biopsy with appropriate staining for reticulin should be considered. If available, comparison to 
a prior bone marrow biopsy should be made. If efficacy is maintained and abnormal peripheral blood 
smear is observed in patients, the physician should follow appropriate clinical judgment, including 
consideration of a bone marrow biopsy, and the risk-benefit of avatrombopag and alternative ITP 
treatment options should be re-assessed. 
Progression of existing myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) 
The effectiveness and safety of Doptelet have not been established for the treatment of 
thrombocytopenia due to MDS. Doptelet should not be used outside of clinical trials for the treatment 
of thrombocytopenia due to MDS. 
There is a theoretical concern that TPO-R agonists may stimulate the progression of existing 
haematological malignancies such as MDS. TPO-R agonists are growth factors that lead to 
thrombopoietic progenitor cell expansion, differentiation and platelet production. The TPO-R is 
predominantly expressed on the surface of cells of the myeloid lineage. 
The diagnosis of ITP in adults and elderly patients should have been confirmed by the exclusion of 
other clinical entities presenting with thrombocytopenia, in particular the diagnosis of MDS must be 
excluded. Consideration should be given to performing a bone marrow aspirate and biopsy over the 
course of the disease and treatment, particularly in patients over 60 years of age, for those with 
systemic symptoms or abnormal signs such as increased peripheral blast cells. 
Severe hepatic impairment 
There is limited information on the use of avatrombopag in patients with severe (Child-Pugh class C, 
MELD score > 24) hepatic impairment. Avatrombopag should only be used in such patients if the 
expected benefit outweighs the expected risks (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Patients with severe hepatic impairment should be supported in line with clinical practice by close 
monitoring for early signs of worsening or new onset hepatic encephalopathy, ascites, and thrombotic 
or bleeding tendency, through monitoring of liver function tests, tests used for assessing clotting status 
and through imaging of portal vasculature as needed. 
Patients with Child-Pugh class C liver disease who take avatrombopag prior to an invasive procedure, 
should be evaluated on the day of the procedure for an unexpectedly high increase in platelet count.  
Use in patients with chronic liver disease undergoing invasive procedures 
The objective of treatment with Doptelet is to increase platelet counts. While the benefit-risk profile 
for procedures that were not specifically included in the clinical trials is likely to be comparable, the 
efficacy and safety of avatrombopag have not been established in major surgeries like laparotomy, 
thoracotomy, open-heart surgery, craniotomy or excision of organs. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Retreatment for patients with chronic liver disease undergoing invasive procedures 
There is limited information on the use of avatrombopag in patients previously exposed to 
avatrombopag. 
Co-administration with interferon preparations 
Interferon preparations have been known to reduce platelet counts, therefore, this should be considered 
when co-administering avatrombopag with interferon preparations. 
Lactose 
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or 
glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product.  
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
P-gp inhibitors 
Concomitant use of avatrombopag with P-gp inhibitors resulted in alterations in exposure that were 
not clinically significant. No dose adjustment is recommended (see section 5.2). 
CYP3A4/5 and CYP2C9 inhibitors 
Concomitant use of avatrombopag with moderate or strong CYP3A4/5 and CYP2C9 dual inhibitors 
(e.g., fluconazole) increases avatrombopag exposure. Concomitant use of avatrombopag with 
moderate or strong CYP2C9 inhibitors is expected to increase avatrombopag exposure. 
Chronic liver disease 
The increase in avatrombopag exposure is not expected to have a clinically important effect on platelet 
counts due to the 5-day treatment duration, and no dose adjustment is recommended. However, these 
patients should be evaluated on the day of the procedure for an unexpectedly high increase in platelet 
count (see section 4.2 and 5.2). 
Chronic immune thrombocytopenia 
Reduce the starting dose of avatrombopag when used concomitantly with a moderate or strong dual 
inhibitor of CYP2C9 and CYP3A4/5 (see Table 4 and section 4.2). Reduction of the starting dose 
should also be considered for patients receiving a moderate or strong CYP2C9 inhibitor. 
In patients starting moderate or strong dual inhibitors of CYP2C9 and CYP3A4/5, or moderate or 
strong inhibitors of CYP2C9, while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust the 
avatrombopag dose as necessary (see Table 2, Table 3 and section 4.2). 
CYP3A4/5 and CYP2C9 inducers 
Concomitant use of moderate or strong CYP3A4/5 and CYP2C9 dual inducers (e.g., rifampicin, 
enzalutamide) reduces avatrombopag exposure, and may result in a decreased effect on platelet counts. 
Concomitant use of avatrombopag with moderate or strong CYP2C9 inducers is expected to reduce 
avatrombopag exposure. 
Chronic liver disease 
The decrease in avatrombopag exposure is not expected to have a clinically important effect on 
platelet counts due to the 5-day treatment duration. No dose adjustment is recommended (see 
section 5.2). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chronic immune thrombocytopenia 
Increase the recommended starting dose of Doptelet when used concomitantly with a moderate or 
strong dual inducer of CYP2C9 and CYP3A4/5 (see Table 4 and section 4.2). An increase in the 
starting dose should also be considered for patients receiving a moderate or strong CYP2C9 inducer. 
In patients starting moderate or strong dual inducers of CYP2C9 and CYP3A4/5, or moderate or 
strong inducers of CYP2C9, while receiving avatrombopag, monitor platelet counts and adjust dose as 
necessary (see Table 2, Table 3 and section 4.2). 
Medicinal products for treatment of ITP  
Medicinal products used in the treatment of ITP in combination with avatrombopag in clinical trials 
included corticosteroids, danazol, dapsone, and intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg). Platelet counts 
should be monitored when combining avatrombopag with other medicinal products for the treatment 
of ITP in order to avoid platelet counts outside of the recommended range. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of avatrombopag in pregnant women. Animal 
studies are insufficient with respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Doptelet is not 
recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using contraception. 
Breast-feeding 
There are no data on the presence of avatrombopag in human milk, the effects on the breastfed child, 
or the effects on milk production. It is unknown whether avatrombopag or its metabolites are excreted 
in human milk. Avatrombopag was present in the milk of lactating rats, see section 5.3. A risk to the 
breast-feeding child cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue 
breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from Doptelet therapy taking into account the benefit of 
breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
The effect of avatrombopag on human fertility has not been established, and a risk cannot be ruled out. 
In animal studies, avatrombopag had no effect on male and female fertility or early embryogenesis in 
rats (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Doptelet has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Chronic liver disease 
The safety of avatrombopag was evaluated in two randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials, 
ADAPT-1 and ADAPT-2, in which 430 patients with chronic liver disease and thrombocytopenia 
received either avatrombopag (n = 274) or placebo (n = 156), and had 1 post-dose safety assessment. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chronic immune thrombocytopenia 
The safety of avatrombopag was evaluated in three controlled trials and one uncontrolled trial which 
enrolled 161 patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia. The pooled safety data from these four 
trials includes 128 patients who were exposed to avatrombopag for a median duration of 29 weeks. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions are classified by Preferred Term and System Organ Class, and by frequency. 
Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon 
(≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000); very rare (< 1/10 000); not known (cannot be 
estimated from the available data). 
Chronic liver disease study population 
System organ class 
(MedDRA terminology*) 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Anaemia 
Hypersensitivity 
Musculoskeletal & connective 
tissue disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
*  Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) version 19.1. 
Fatigue 
Portal vein 
thrombosis 
Bone pain 
Myalgia 
Pyrexia 
Chronic primary immune thrombocytopenia study population 
System organ class 
MedDRA terminology 
Frequency 
Adverse reaction 
Infections and infestations 
Uncommon 
Furuncle, Thrombophlebitis septic, Upper 
respiratory tract infection 
Neoplasms benign, malignant 
and unspecified (including 
cysts and polyps) 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Uncommon 
Myelofibrosis 
Common 
Uncommon 
Thrombocytopenia, Anaemia, Splenomegaly 
Leukocytosis 
Immune system disorders 
Not known 
Hypersensitivity 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Common 
Hyperlipidaemia, Decreased appetite 
Uncommon 
Dehydration, Hypertriglyceridaemia, Increased 
appetite, Iron deficiency 
Psychiatric disorders 
Uncommon 
Mood swings 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common  Headache 
Common 
Uncommon 
Dizziness, Head discomfort, Migraine, 
Paraesthesia 
Cerebrovascular accident, Cognitive disorder, 
Dysgeusia, Hypoaesthesia, Sensory disturbance, 
Transient ischaemia attack 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class 
MedDRA terminology 
Frequency 
Adverse reaction 
Eye disorders 
Uncommon 
Abnormal sensation in eye, Eye irritation, Eye 
pruritus, Eye swelling, Lacrimation increased, 
Ocular discomfort, Photophobia, Retinal artery 
occlusion, Vision blurred, Visual impairment 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Uncommon 
Ear pain, Hyperacusis 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Uncommon 
Myocardial infarction 
Common 
Hypertension 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Uncommon 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon 
Deep vein thrombosis, Jugular vein thrombosis, 
Vasoconstriction 
Epistaxis, Dyspnoea 
Haemoptysis, Nasal congestion, Pulmonary 
embolism 
Nausea, Diarrhoea, Vomiting, Abdominal pain 
upper, Flatulence 
Abdominal discomfort, Abdominal distension, 
Abdominal pain lower, Anorectal varices, 
Constipation, Eructation, Gastrooesophageal 
reflux disease, Glossodynia, Haemorrhoids, 
Paraesthesia oral, Swollen tongue, Tongue 
disorder 
Portal vein thrombosis 
Rash, Acne, Petechiae, Pruritis 
Alopecia, Dry skin, Ecchymosis, Hyperhidrosis, 
Pigmentation disorder, Rash pruritic, Skin 
haemorrhage, Skin irritation 
Arthralgia, Back pain, Pain in extremity, 
Myalgia, Musculoskeletal pain 
Arthropathy, Limb discomfort, Muscle spasms, 
Muscular weakness, Musculoskeletal chest pain 
Haematuria 
Reproductive system and 
breast disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Uncommon 
Menorrhagia, Nipple pain 
Very common 
Fatigue 
Common 
Uncommon 
Investigations 
Common 
Uncommon 
Asthenia 
Chest discomfort, Hunger, Pain, Peripheral 
swelling 
Blood glucose increased, Platelet count 
increased, Blood glucose decreased, Blood 
triglycerides increased, Blood lactate 
dehydrogenase increased, Platelet count 
decreased, Alanine aminotransferase increased, 
Blood gastrin increased 
Aspartate aminotransferase increased, Blood 
pressure increased, Heart rate irregular, Hepatic 
enzyme increased 
*  Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) version 19.1. 
11 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Thromboembolic events 
In the ADAPT-1 and ADAPT-2 clinical trials in patients with thrombocytopenia and chronic liver 
disease, there was 1 treatment-emergent event of portal vein thrombosis in a patient (n = 1/274 of 
patients receiving avatrombopag) which was reported 14 days after treatment with Doptelet ended. 
This adverse reaction was assessed as non-serious. 
In the four pooled clinical trials in patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia, thromboembolic 
events were observed in 7% (9/128) of patients. The only thromboembolic event which occurred in 
more than 1 individual patient was cerebrovascular accident, occurring in 1.6% (2/128). 
Thrombocytopenia following discontinuation of treatment in patients with chronic immune 
thrombocytopenia 
In the 4 pooled clinical trials in patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia, transient decreases 
in platelet counts to levels lower than baseline were observed following discontinuation of treatment in 
8.6% (11/128) of patients treated with avatrombopag. 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Hypersensitivity reactions including pruritus, rash, swelling face, and swollen tongue. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There is no specific antidote for overdose with avatrombopag. Should overdose occur or be suspected, 
Doptelet dosing should be stopped and platelet count should be carefully monitored since 
avatrombopag increases platelet count in a dose-dependent fashion.  
5 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antihemorrhagics, other systemic hemostatics, ATC code: B02BX08 
Mechanism of action 
Avatrombopag is an orally active, small molecule thrombopoietin (TPO) receptor agonist that 
stimulates proliferation and differentiation of megakaryocytes from bone marrow progenitor cells 
resulting in increased production of platelets. Avatrombopag does not compete with TPO for binding 
to the TPO receptor and has an additive effect with TPO on platelet production. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Chronic liver disease studies 
The efficacy and safety of avatrombopag for the treatment of adult patients with chronic liver disease 
and a platelet count ˂ 50 × 109/L who were scheduled to undergo a procedure were studied in 
2 identically-designed multicenter, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 3 studies 
(ADAPT-1 and ADAPT-2). In each study, patients were assigned to the low baseline platelet count 
cohort (˂ 40 × 109/L) or the high baseline platelet count cohort (≥ 40 to ˂ 50 × 109/L) based on their 
platelet count at baseline. Patients were then randomised 2:1 to either avatrombopag or placebo. 
Patients in the low baseline platelet count cohort received 60 mg avatrombopag or matching placebo 
once daily for 5 days, and patients in the high baseline platelet count cohort received 40 mg 
avatrombopag or matching placebo once daily for 5 days. Eligible patients were scheduled to undergo 
their procedure (low bleeding risk procedures, such as endoscopy and colonoscopy (60.8%); moderate 
bleeding risk, such as liver biopsy and chemoembolization for HCC (17.2%); or high bleeding risk, 
such as dental procedures and radiofrequency ablation (22.1%)) 5 to 8 days after their last dose of 
treatment. Patient populations were similar between the low and high baseline platelet count cohorts, 
and consisted of 66% male and 35% female; median age 58 years and 61% White, 34% Asian, and 3% 
Black. A total of 24.8% of patients were ≥ 65 years of age, 4.6% ≥ 75 years of age, and only 1 
(0.2%) ≥ 85 years of age. Patients’ MELD scores ranged from < 10 (37.5%), 10 to 14 (46.3%) and 
from > 14 to < 24 (16.2%), and included patients with CTP Class A (56.4%), Class B (38.1%), and 
Class C (5.6%). 
In ADAPT-1, a total of 231 patients were randomised; 149 patients to the avatrombopag group and 
82 patients to the placebo group. In the low baseline platelet count cohort, the mean baseline platelet 
count for the avatrombopag-treated group was 31.1 × 109/L and for placebo-treated patients was 
30.7 × 109/L. In the high baseline platelet count cohort, the mean baseline platelet count for the 
avatrombopag-treated patients was 44.3 × 109/L and for placebo-treated patients was 44.9 × 109/L.  
In ADAPT-2, a total of 204 patients were randomised; 128 patients to the avatrombopag treatment 
group and 76 patients to the placebo treatment group. In the low baseline platelet count cohort, the 
mean baseline platelet count for the avatrombopag-treated group was 32.7 × 109/L and for 
placebo-treated patients was 32.5 × 109/L. In the high baseline platelet count cohort, the mean baseline 
platelet count for the avatrombopag-treated patients was 44.3 × 109/L and for placebo-treated patients 
was 44.5 × 109/L.  
Responders were defined as patients who did not require a platelet transfusion or any rescue procedure 
for bleeding after randomisation and up to 7 days following a scheduled procedure. Results are shown 
in Table 5. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: Efficacy results by baseline platelet count cohort and treatment group – ADAPT-1 and 
ADAPT-2 
Category 
Low baseline platelet count cohort (< 40 × 109/L) 
ADAPT-1 
ADAPT-2 
Placebo 
(n = 48) 
Avatrombopag 
60 mg 
(n = 90) 
Placebo 
(n = 43) 
Avatrombopag 
60 mg 
(n = 70) 
Proportion of subjects not requiring a platelet transfusion or rescue procedure for bleeding 
˂ 0.0001 
35% 
(21, 49) 
66% 
(56, 75) 
23% 
(11, 35) 
Responders 
95% CIa 
P-valueb 
0.0006 
Proportion of subjects who achieved a platelet count ≥ 50 × 109/L on procedure day 
Responders 
95% CIa 
P-valueb 
Change in platelet count from baseline to procedure day 
  Mean (SD) × 109/L 
  Median × 109/L 
  P-valuec 
32.0 (25.5) 
28.3 
3.0 (10.0) 
0.5 
0.8 (6.4) 
0.5 
69% 
(59, 79) 
4% 
(0, 10) 
7% 
(0, 15) 
˂ 0.0001 
˂ 0.0001 
˂ 0.0001 
˂ 0.0001 
69% 
(58, 79) 
67% 
(56, 78) 
31.3 (24.1) 
28.0 
High baseline platelet count (≥ 40 to < 50 × 109/L) 
Category 
ADAPT-1 
ADAPT-2 
Placebo 
(n = 34) 
Avatrombopag 
40 mg 
(n = 59) 
Placebo 
(n = 33) 
Avatrombopag 
40 mg 
(n = 58) 
Proportion of subjects not requiring a platelet transfusion or rescue procedure for bleeding 
˂ 0.0001 
88% 
(80, 96) 
33% 
(17, 49) 
38% 
(22, 55) 
Responders 
95% CIa 
P-valueb 
˂ 0.0001 
Proportion of subjects who achieved a platelet count ≥ 50 × 109/L on procedure day 
Responders 
95% CIa 
P-valueb 
Change in platelet count from baseline to procedure day 
  Mean (SD) × 109/L 
  Median × 109/L 
  P-valuec 
37.1 (27.4) 
33.0 
5.9 (14.9) 
3.3 
1.0 (9.3) 
0.0 
39% 
(23, 56) 
88% 
(80, 96) 
21% 
(7, 34) 
˂ 0.0001 
˂ 0.0001 
˂ 0.0001 
˂ 0.0001 
88% 
(80, 96) 
93% 
(87, 100) 
44.9 (33.0) 
41.3 
a  Two-sided 95% confidence interval based on normal approximation. 
b  Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel Test. 
c  Wilcoxon Rank Sum Test. 
A measured increase in platelet counts was observed in both avatrombopag treatment groups over time 
beginning on Day 4 post-dose, which peaked on Day 10-13 and then returned to near baseline values 
by Day 35 (Figure 1); mean platelet count remained greater than or equal to 50 × 109/L on Day 17 
(Visit 5). 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1:  Mean platelet count (+/- standard error) by days from start of dosing by baseline 
platelet count cohort and treatment group - pooled ADAPT-1 and ADAPT-2 
The efficacy of avatrombopag was similar across various subgroups for the pooled Phase 3 study 
population (ADAPT-1 and ADAPT-2). The proportion of subjects not requiring a platelet transfusion 
or any rescue procedure for bleeding was generally similar across the various subgroups. 
Chronic immune thrombocytopenia studies 
The efficacy of Doptelet in adult patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia was evaluated in a 
Phase 3, multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial (Study 302). Patients had 
previously received one or more prior chronic immune thrombocytopenia therapies and had an 
average of screening and baseline platelet counts < 30 × 109/L. Patients were centrally stratified by 
splenectomy status, baseline platelet count (≤ 15 or > 15 × 109/L), and use of concomitant chronic 
immune thrombocytopenia medicinal products, and then randomised (2:1) to receive either 
avatrombopag or placebo for 6 months. Patients received a starting dose of 20 mg once daily, with 
doses subsequently titrated based on platelet response. 
In addition, patients could taper off concomitant ITP medicinal products and receive rescue treatments 
as dictated by local standard of care. More than half of all patients in each treatment group had ≥ 3 
prior ITP therapies and 29% of placebo patients and 34% of avatrombopag patients had a prior 
splenectomy. 
Forty-nine patients were randomised, 32 to avatrombopag and 17 to placebo, with similar mean [SD] 
baseline platelet counts in the 2 treatment groups (14.1 [8.6] × 109/L and 12.7 [7.8] × 109/L, 
respectively). The median age was 44 years, 63% were female, and 94% were Caucasian, 4% Asian 
and 2% Black. A total of 8.2% of patients were ≥ 65 years of age, and no patients were ≥ 75 years of 
age. The median duration of exposure was 26 weeks for avatrombopag-treated patients and 6 weeks 
for placebo-treated patients. The primary efficacy outcome in this trial was the cumulative number of 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
weeks in which the platelet count was ≥ 50 × 109/L during the 6-month treatment period in the absence 
of rescue therapy. Avatrombopag-treated patients had a longer duration of platelet counts ≥ 50 × 109/L 
in the absence of rescue therapy than those who received placebo (median 12.4 [0, 25] vs 0 [0, 2] 
weeks, respectively, p < 0.0001) (see Table 6). 
Table 6: Cumulative number of weeks of platelet response - Study 302 
Primary efficacy outcome 
Avatrombopag 
(n = 32) 
Placebo 
(n = 17) 
Cumulative number of weeks with a platelet response* 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min, Max 
12.0 (8.75) 
0.1 (0.49) 
12.4 
0, 25 
0.0 
0, 2 
p-value of Wilcoxon rank sum test 
< 0.0001 
* Cumulative number of weeks of platelet response is defined as the total numbers of weeks in which 
the platelet count was ≥ 50 × 109/L during 6 months of treatment in the absence of rescue therapy. 
In addition, a larger proportion of patients in the avatrombopag treatment group had platelet 
counts ≥ 50 × 109/L at Day 8 compared to placebo (21/32; 66% vs 0/17; 0.0%, respectively; 95% CI 
(47, 86); p < 0.0001). Though few subjects were receiving concomitant ITP medicinal products at 
baseline, a larger proportion of patients in the avatrombopag treatment group had a reduction in use of 
concomitant ITP medicinal products from baseline compared to placebo (5/15; 33% vs 0/7; 0.0%, 
respectively; 95% CI (12, 62); p = 0.1348). 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Doptelet in all subsets of the paediatric population in thrombocytopenia secondary to liver disease (see 
section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
The plasma concentration-time profiles following the oral administration of avatrombopag were 
characterised by a short lag time (0.5 – 0.75 hours) with peak exposure at 6 – 8 hours post dose. In a 
multiple-dose pharmacokinetic study in healthy volunteers, steady state was reached by day 5 of 
dosing. Open label, randomised, cross-over replicate design clinical trials were conducted in healthy 
subjects to assess the effects of high-fat and low-fat food on the bioavailability and pharmacokinetic 
variability of avatrombopag. Administration with either type of food did not have any clinically 
important effects on rate (Cmax) or extent (AUC) of avatrombopag exposure. However, there was a 
significant reduction (by approximately 50%) in the between- and within-subject variability of 
avatrombopag AUC and Cmax when administered with food (see sections 4.2 and 4.5). 
Food interaction 
Coadministration of avatrombopag with either a high-fat or low-fat meal did not result in clinically 
important changes in rate or extent of absorption of avatrombopag. However, administration of 
avatrombopag with both a high and low-fat meal reduced intersubject and intrasubject 
pharmacokinetic variability of avatrombopag by approximately 50%. Therefore, avatrombopag is 
recommended to be administered with food (see section 4.2). 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
In vitro studies suggest that avatrombopag is highly bound to human plasma proteins (> 96%). The 
apparent volume of distribution of avatrombopag in patients with thrombocytopenia and chronic liver 
disease based on population pharmacokinetic analysis is approximately 180 L, and the apparent 
volume of distribution with patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenia is approximately 235 L, 
suggesting that avatrombopag is extensively distributed. 
Biotransformation 
The oxidative metabolism of avatrombopag is mainly mediated by CYP2C9 and CYP3A4/5. 
Avatrombopag is a substrate for p-glycoprotein (P-gp) mediated transport, although no clinically 
important differences in platelet count elevations are expected when avatrombopag is co-administered 
with a strong P-gp inhibitor. Based on in vitro studies, no other transporting proteins (OATP1B1, 
OATP1B3, OCT2, OAT1, and OAT3) are expected to play a significant role in the disposition of 
avatrombopag. 
Table 7: Drug interactions: Changes in pharmacokinetics of avatrombopag in the presence of 
co-administered medicinal product 
Co-administered medicinal product* 
Geometric mean ratio 
[90% CI] of avatrombopag PK with/without 
co administered drug (No Effect = 1.00) 
AUC0-inf 
Cmax 
Strong CYP3A inhibitor 
Itraconazole 
Moderate CYP3A and CYP2C9 inhibitor 
Fluconazole 
Moderate CYP2C9 and strong CYP3A inducer 
Rifampin 
P-gp inhibitor 
Cyclosporine 
P-gp and moderate CYP3A inhibitor 
Verapamil 
1.37 
(1.10, 1.72) 
2.16 
(1.71, 2.72) 
0.57 
(0.47, 0.62) 
0.83 
(0.65, 1.04) 
1.61 
(1.21, 2.15) 
1.07 
(0.86, 1.35) 
1.17 
(0.96, 1.42) 
1.04 
(0.88, 1.23) 
0.66 
(0.54, 0.82) 
1.26 
(0.96, 1.66) 
* at steady state, except for cyclosporine which was administered as a single dose 
Effect of avatrombopag  
Avatrombopag does not inhibit CYP1A, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, 
CYP2E1, or CYP3A, does not induce CYP1A, CYP2B6, CYP2C, and CYP3A, and weakly induces 
CYP2C8 and CYP2C9 in vitro. 
Avatrombopag inhibits organic anion transporter (OAT) 1 and 3 and breast cancer resistance protein 
(BCRP) but not organic anion transporter polypeptide (OATP) 1B1 and 1B3, and organic cation 
transporter (OCT) 2 in vitro. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect of transporting proteins 
Avatrombopag is a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp) mediated transport (see Table 7). 
Avatrombopag is not a substrate for OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT2, OAT1, and OAT3.  
Elimination 
The predominant route of avatrombopag excretion is via faeces. Following administration of a single 
20 mg 14C-avatrombopag dose to healthy male volunteers, 88% of the dose was recovered in faeces 
and 6% in urine. Of the 88% of drug-related material in the faeces, 77% was identified as parent 
(34%) and the 4-hydroxy metabolite (44%). No metabolites of avatrombopag were detected in plasma. 
The mean plasma elimination half-life (%CV) of avatrombopag is approximately 19 hours (19%). The 
mean (%CV) of the clearance of avatrombopag is estimated to be 6.9 L/hr (29%). 
Linearity 
Avatrombopag demonstrated dose-proportional pharmacokinetics after single doses from 10 mg 
(0.5-times the lowest approved dose) to 80 mg (1.3-times the highest recommended dose). 
Special populations 
Elderly 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis of avatrombopag plasma concentrations from clinical trials with 
healthy subjects and patients with thrombocytopenia due to chronic liver disease or healthy subjects 
and patients with ITP, that included 11% (84/787) and 4% (24/577) of the study population ≥ 65 years 
of age, respectively, suggested that avatrombopag exposures are not affected by age (see section 4.2). 
Racial or ethnic groups 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis of avatrombopag plasma concentrations from the clinical trials 
with healthy subjects, patients with thrombocytopenia due to chronic liver disease, and patients with 
ITP indicated that avatrombopag exposures were similar across the different races studied. 
Renal impairment 
Human studies demonstrated that the renal route is not a major pathway for either unchanged 
avatrombopag or its metabolite’s elimination. Based on the known metabolic profile of avatrombopag 
and the fact that only 6% of the dose is excreted in urine, the likelihood of effects of renal impairment 
on pharmacokinetics of avatrombopag is considered to be very low (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). 
The population pharmacokinetic analysis of avatrombopag in healthy subjects and subjects with 
thrombocytopenia due to chronic liver disease indicated similar exposures between healthy subjects 
and subjects with mild and moderate renal impairment (CrCL ≥ 30 mL/min, Cockcroft-Gault). 
Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of avatrombopag have not been investigated in patients with 
severe renal impairment (CrCL < 30 mL/min, Cockcroft-Gault) including patients requiring 
haemodialysis. 
Hepatic impairment 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis evaluated avatrombopag plasma exposures in patients with 
mild to moderate hepatic impairment based on Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) scores 
and Child-Turcotte-Pugh scores. No clinically important difference in avatrombopag exposures were 
observed between patients with Child-Turcotte-Pugh Scores (Range = 5 to 12) or MELD scores 
(Range = 4 to 23) and healthy subjects. Avatrombopag plasma exposure was comparable in patients 
with chronic liver disease secondary to viral hepatitis (n = 242), non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (n = 45) 
and alcoholic liver disease (n = 49) in the pivotal Phase 3 studies, and also comparable to that in 
healthy subjects (n = 391). Due to the limited information available, avatrombopag should only be 
used in Child-Pugh class C patients when the expected benefit outweighs the expected risks.  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Avatrombopag does not stimulate platelet production in mice, rats, monkeys, or dogs because of the 
unique TPO receptor specificity. Therefore, data from these animal studies do not fully model 
potential adverse effects related to platelet count increases due to avatrombopag in humans. 
Effects in non-clinical trials were observed only at exposures considered sufficiently in excess of the 
maximum human exposure indicating little relevance to clinical use. The primary toxicity of 
avatrombopag in pivotal repeated-dose studies was in the stomach at high doses with adequate safety 
margins when compared to the exposure at the maximum recommended human dose; these effects 
were reversible even in the chronic toxicity studies. 
Carcinogenesis 
In two-year carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats, neuroendocrine cell (enterochromaffin-like cell, 
ECL cell) gastric tumours (carcinoids) occurred in the stomach at high doses. The gastric carcinoids 
were considered likely due to prolonged hypergastrinemia observed in toxicity studies. 
Hypergastrinemia-related gastric carcinoids in rodents are generally considered to be of low risk or 
relevance to humans. 
Avatrombopag was not mutagenic in an in vitro bacterial reverse mutation (AMES) assay or 
clastogenic in an in vitro human lymphocyte chromosomal aberrations assay or in an in vivo rat bone 
marrow micronucleus assay. 
Animal toxicology and/or pharmacology 
In 4-week or longer repeated-dose toxicity studies, treatment-related gastric lesions were observed in 
mice, rats, and cynomolgus monkeys. In these species, avatrombopag was associated with 
histopathologic changes in the fundic mucosa of the glandular stomach, characterised by degeneration 
of the glandular epithelium with a decrease in matured parietal cells. This effect was not associated 
with inflammatory response or any evidence of erosion or ulcer formation. The severity of gastric 
lesions was dependent on the dose and duration of avatrombopag administration and showed a clear 
trend towards reversibility during the recovery period. The exposures (AUC) at doses that showed no 
gastric lesions across the species were 3- to 33-fold higher than the exposures in humans at the 
maximum recommended human dose (MRHD). 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity 
Avatrombopag did not affect fertility or early embryonic development in male rats at exposures 
22-times, or in female rats at exposures 114-times, the AUC observed in patients at the recommended 
dose of 60 mg once daily. 
Excretion in milk 
Avatrombopag was present in milk of lactating rats after oral administration of radioactive labeled 
avatrombopag. The pharmacokinetic parameters of avatrombopag in milk were similar to those in 
plasma with an exposure ratio of avatrombopag-related radioactivity (milk to plasma) of 0.94. 
Juvenile animal studies 
In a 10-week juvenile toxicology study in rats, avatrombopag was administered at doses ranging from 
20 to 300 mg/kg/day. There were no test article-related mortality or clinical signs at doses up to 
300 mg/kg/day. In the stomach, dose-dependent degeneration, regenerative hyperplasia, and atrophy 
of the glandular epithelium occurred at 100 and 300 mg/kg/day; exposures at 100 mg/kg/day in male 
rats were 14-times the AUC in patients at the maximum recommended dose of 60 mg once daily. 
Avatrombopag did not cause gastric changes in male juvenile rats at exposures 7 times the AUC 
observed in patients at the maximum recommended dose of 60 mg once daily. An increased incidence 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of background focal mineralization was also observed in the kidneys of females at 300 mg/kg/day 
(female rat exposure was 50-times the human exposure based on AUC at the 60 mg daily dose). 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Lactose monohydrate 
Microcrystalline cellulose (E460(i)) 
Crospovidone type B (E1202) 
Silica, colloidal anhydrous (E551) 
Magnesium stearate (E470b) 
Film coating 
Poly(vinyl alcohol) (E1203) 
Talc (E553b) 
Macrogol 3350 (E1521) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Iron oxide yellow (E172) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
5 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Blister (polyamide and polyvinyl chloride-laminated aluminium film with push-through aluminium 
and polyethylene terephthalate foil) containing either 10 or 15 film-coated tablets. Each carton 
contains one blister of 10 or 15 film-coated tablets or two blisters of 15 film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
SE-112 76 Stockholm  
Sweden 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/19/1373/001 
EU/1/19/1373/002 
EU/1/19/1373/003 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 20 June 2019 
Date of latest renewal: 09 February 2024 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
Strandbergsgatan 49 
Stockholm 
SE-112 51 
Sweden 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Doptelet 20 mg film-coated tablets 
avatrombopag  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains avatrombopag maleate equivalent to 20 mg of avatrombopag. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose, see leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
10 film-coated tablets 
15 film-coated tablets 
30 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
SE-112 76 Stockholm 
Sweden 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/19/1373/001 
EU/1/19/1373/002 
EU/1/19/1373/003 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Doptelet 20 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Doptelet 20 mg tablets 
avatrombopag  
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET  
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Doptelet 20 mg film-coated tablets 
avatrombopag 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Doptelet is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you take Doptelet  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Doptelet  
Possible side effects  
How to store Doptelet  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Doptelet is and what it is used for 
Doptelet contains an active substance called avatrombopag. It belongs to a group of medicines called 
thrombopoietin receptor agonists. 
Doptelet is used in adults with chronic liver disease to treat low platelet count (called 
thrombocytopenia) before having a medical procedure where there is a risk of bleeding. 
Doptelet is used to treat adults with low platelet counts due to primary chronic immune 
thrombocytopenia (ITP) when a prior treatment for ITP (such as corticosteroids or immunoglobulins) 
has not worked well enough. 
Doptelet works by helping to increase the number of platelets in the blood. Platelets are blood cells 
that help the blood to clot and so reduce or prevent bleeding. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Doptelet 
Do not take Doptelet  
- 
if you are allergic to avatrombopag or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). If you are not sure, talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Doptelet. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Doptelet if: 
• 
you are at risk of blood clots in your veins or arteries, or members of your family have had 
blood clots.  
you have another blood condition known as myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS); taking Doptelet 
may worsen MDS.  
• 
You may be at higher risk of blood clots as you get older or if: 
- 
- 
- 
you have had to stay in bed for a long time 
you have cancer 
you are taking the contraceptive birth control pill or hormone replacement therapy 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
you have recently had surgery or been injured 
you are very overweight 
you smoke  
you have advanced chronic liver disease. 
If any of the above applies to you, or you are not sure, talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking 
Doptelet. 
Blood tests for platelet count 
If you stop taking Doptelet, your platelet count is likely to become low as before treatment or even 
lower, with a risk of bleeding. This may happen within days. The platelet count will be monitored, and 
your doctor will discuss appropriate precautions with you. 
Tests to check your bone marrow 
In people who have problems with their bone marrow, medicines like Doptelet could make the 
problems worse. Signs of bone marrow changes may show up as abnormal results in your blood tests. 
Your doctor may also carry out a test to directly check your bone marrow during treatment with 
Doptelet. 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give Doptelet to people less than 18 years old. The safety and effectiveness of this medicine in 
this age group is not known. 
Other medicines and Doptelet  
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
If you are taking other medicines for ITP, you may need to take a lower dose or to stop taking them 
while you are taking Doptelet. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor or 
pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. Doptelet is not recommended in pregnancy and in 
women who are able to have children and are not using contraception. 
If you are breast-feeding, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking Doptelet. This 
medicine can pass into breast milk. Your doctor will help you decide whether the benefit of 
breast-feeding outweighs any possible risks to your baby while you are breast-feeding. 
Driving and using machines 
Doptelet is not expected to affect you being able to drive, cycle or use tools or machines. 
Doptelet contains lactose 
Doptelet contains lactose (a type of sugar). If you have been told by your doctor that you have an 
intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicine. 
3. 
How to take Doptelet 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure.  
If you have chronic liver disease and low platelet count you should be scheduled to undergo your 
procedure 5 to 8 days after the last dose of Doptelet. 
If you have chronic ITP your doctor will tell you how much Doptelet to take and how often to take it. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How much to take  
If you have chronic liver disease and are scheduled for an invasive procedure 
• 
Doptelet is available in 20 mg tablets. The usual recommended dose is either 40 mg (2 tablets) 
or 60 mg (3 tablets) every day for 5 days in a row. 
Your dose will depend on your platelet counts. 
Your doctor or pharmacist will tell you how many tablets to take and when to take them. 
• 
• 
If you have chronic ITP 
• 
The usual recommended starting dose is 20 mg (1 tablet) a day. If you are taking certain other 
medicines you may need a different starting dose. 
Your doctor or pharmacist will tell you how many tablets to take and when to take them. 
Your doctor will monitor your platelet count regularly and will adjust your dose as needed. 
• 
• 
Taking this medicine 
• 
Swallow the tablets whole and take with food at the same time each day that you take Doptelet. 
If you have chronic liver disease and low platelet count 
• 
• 
Start taking Doptelet 10 to 13 days before your planned medical procedure. 
Your doctor or pharmacist will tell you how many tablets to take and when to take them. 
If you have chronic ITP 
• 
Your doctor or pharmacist will tell you how many tablets to take and when to take them. 
If you take more Doptelet than you should 
• 
Talk to a doctor or pharmacist straight away. 
If you forget to take Doptelet 
• 
• 
Take your missed dose as soon as you remember, then take your next dose at the usual time. 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop taking Doptelet 
Take Doptelet for as long as your doctor tells you. Do not stop taking Doptelet unless your doctor tells 
you to. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you notice any of the following side effects. 
The following side effects have been reported to be associated with treatment with Doptelet in 
adult patients with chronic liver disease: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
feeling tired 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
low red blood cell count (anaemia) 
• 
blood clot in the portal vein (blood vessel that carries blood to the liver from the intestines) 
which may result in upper abdominal pain or swelling 
bone pain 
• 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
muscle aches 
fever 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
allergic reactions including swollen face, swollen tongue, and skin changes such as rash and 
itching 
The following side effects have been reported to be associated with treatment with Doptelet in 
adult patients with primary chronic ITP: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
feeling tired 
headache 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
back pain, muscle pain, joint pain, pain in arms or legs 
discomfort or pain of bones, muscles, ligaments, tendons, and nerves 
feeling sick (nausea), diarrhoea, vomiting, abdominal pain, digestive wind/gas 
dizziness, head discomfort, migraine 
decreased appetite 
weakness 
nose bleeds 
skin rash, itching, acne, red spots on skin 
feeling of tingling, prickling or numbness, commonly called “pins and needles” 
enlarged spleen 
shortness of breath 
elevated blood pressure 
tendency to bruise or bleed (low platelets) 
Common side effects that may show up in blood tests 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
increased fats (cholesterol, triglycerides) 
increased or decreased blood sugar (glucose) 
increased liver enzyme (alanine aminotransferase) 
increased lactate dehydrogenase 
increased gastrin 
decreased number of red blood cells (anaemia) 
increased or decreased number of platelets 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)  
• 
• 
redness, swelling and pain of a vein caused by a blood clot 
pain, swelling and tenderness in one of your legs (usually the calf) with warm skin in the 
affected area (signs of a blood clot in a deep vein) 
blood clots in the veins which carry blood away from the brain 
narrowing of the blood vessels (vasoconstriction) 
sudden shortness of breath, especially when accompanied with sharp pain in the chest and/or 
rapid breathing, which could be signs of a blood clot in the lungs 
blockage or narrowing of the vein that brings blood to the liver 
stroke or mini-stroke 
heart attack 
irregular heartbeat 
haemorrhoids 
dilation of the rectal veins 
inflammation (swelling) and infection of the nose, sinuses, throat, tonsils, or middle ear (upper 
respiratory tract infection) 
scarring of the bone marrow 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
loss of water or body fluids (dehydration) 
increased appetite, hunger 
mood changes 
abnormal thinking 
changes in sense of taste, smell, hearing, vision 
eye problems including irritation, discomfort, itching, swelling, tearing, sensitivity to light, 
blurred vision, vision impaired, loss of vision 
ear pain 
increased sensitivity to everyday sounds 
coughing up blood 
nasal congestion 
abdominal pain, discomfort or swelling 
constipation 
belching 
acid reflux 
burning or stinging sensation in mouth 
numbness of the mouth, swollen tongue, tongue problems 
numbness 
hair loss 
boils 
dry skin 
dark purple spots on skin (blood leakage out of blood vessels, bruising) 
excessive sweating 
changes in skin color 
itchy rash 
skin irritation 
abnormality of a joint 
muscle cramps, muscle weakness 
blood in urine 
heavy menstrual period 
nipple pain 
chest pain 
pain 
swelling in legs or arms 
Uncommon side effects that may show up in blood tests 
• 
• 
• 
• 
bacteria in the blood 
increased white blood cells 
decreased iron in blood 
increased liver enzyme (aspartate aminotransferase), abnormal liver tests 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
allergic reactions including swollen face, swollen tongue, and skin changes such as rash and 
itching 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
How to store Doptelet 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on each blister after 
‘EXP’. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Doptelet contains  
- 
The active substance is avatrombopag. Each film-coated tablet contains avatrombopag maleate 
equivalent to 20 mg of avatrombopag. 
- 
The other ingredients are: 
Tablet core: lactose monohydrate (see section 2 “Doptelet contains lactose”); microcrystalline 
cellulose [E460(i)]; crospovidone type B [E1202]; silica, colloidal anhydrous [E551]; 
magnesium stearate [E470b]. 
Film coating: poly(vinyl alcohol) [E1203]; talc [E553b]; macrogol 3350 [E1521]; titanium 
dioxide [E171]; iron oxide yellow [E172]. 
What Doptelet looks like and contents of the pack 
Doptelet 20 mg film-coated tablets (tablets) are pale yellow, round, rounded on the upper and lower 
side, marked with “AVA” imprinted on one side and “20” on the other. 
The tablets are supplied in cartons containing one or two aluminium blisters. Each blister contains 
either 10 or 15 tablets.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
SE-112 76 Stockholm  
Sweden 
Manufacturer 
Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB (publ) 
Strandbergsgatan 49, 
Stockholm, 
SE-112 51 
Sweden 
This leaflet was last revised in . 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
