PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary of risk management plan for DOVATO 
(dolutegravir/lamivudine)  
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for DOVATO. The RMP details 
important risks of DOVATO, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about DOVATO's risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). 
DOVATO's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how DOVATO should 
be used. 
This summary of the RMP for DOVATO should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
DOVATO's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for
DOVATO is authorised for the treatment of HIV infection (see SmPC for the full 
indication). It contains dolutegravir and lamivudine as the active substances and it is 
given as a tablet by mouth. 
Further information about the evaluation of DOVATO’s benefits can be found in 
DOVATO’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/dovato 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or
further characterise the risks
Important risks of DOVATO, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about DOVATO's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 


Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use,
in the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare
professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
 


The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to
ensure that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g.
with or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In the case of DOVATO, these measures are supplemented with additional risk 
minimization measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected 
continuously and regularly analysed, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of DOVATO is not yet available, it 
is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of DOVATO are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken.  
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of DOVATO. Potential risks are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on 
available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of 
the medicine); 
DOVATO is a new medicine that does not contain a new active substance. The identified 
and potential risks for DOVATO have been taken from the approved TIVICAY 
(dolutegravir (DTG)) RMP. No new risks have been identified for DOVATO.  
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
<>Dolutegravir 
➢ Neural tube defects
Missing information 
<>Dolutegravir/lamivudine 
➢ Use in pregnancy/ breastfeeding
II.B Summary of important risks
DOVATO is a new medicine that does not contain a new active substance. The identified 
and potential risks for DOVATO have been taken from the approved TIVICAY 
(dolutegravir) EU-RMP. No new risks have been identified for DOVATO. 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information for DOVATO is aligned to 
the reference medicinal product (TIVICAY). 
Additional pharmacovigilance and additional risk minimisation activities (where 
applicable) for DOVATO are provided in the table below: 
Important potential risk: Neural tube defects 
Additional Risk minimisation 
measures 
Direct health care professional communication 
completed in 2018 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities* 
Antiretroviral pregnancy registry (APR) 
* The risk of NTD has additional pharmacovigilance activities collecting data on the dolutegravir component of the
DTG/3TC FDC; these studies are described in the Dolutegravir RMP 
Missing information: Use in pregnancy and breast feeding 
Additional  pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Antiretroviral pregnancy registry (APR) 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of DOVATO. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan*
Study/Activity 
(including 
study number) 
Objectives 
Status 
Safety 
concerns/effica
cy issue 
addressed 
Ongoing 
Use in 
pregnancy, 
Neural tube 
defects 
Antiretroviral 
Pregnancy 
Registry (APR) 
Monitors 
prenatal 
exposures to 
antiretroviral 
(ARV) drugs to 
detect a 
potential 
increase in the 
risk of birth 
defects through 
a prospective 
exposure-
registration 
cohort. 
Planned date 
for submission 
of (interim and) 
final study 
results 
A registry interim 
report is 
prepared semi-
annually 
summarising the 
aggregate data. 
Data from the 
APR will be 
presented in the 
Periodic Benefit 
Risk Evaluation 
Report 
(PBRER). 
*The NTD risk has ongoing additional pharmacovigilance activities collecting data on the
dolutegravir component of the DTG/3TC FDC; these studies are described in the Dolutegravir RMP
