Part VI:  Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for Drovelis (estetrol/drospirenone) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Drovelis. The RMP details important 
risks of Drovelis, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Drovelis's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Drovelis’s SmPC and its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals 
and patients on how Drovelis should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Drovelis should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Drovelis’s 
RMP. 
I.  The medicine and what it is used for 
Drovelis is authorised for oral contraception. It contains estetrol and drospirenone as the active 
substances. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Drovelis’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  Drovelis’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage <link to the EPAR summary landing page>. 
II.  Risks  associated  with  the  medicine  and  activities  to  minimise  or  further 
characterise the risks  
Important risks of Drovelis, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Drovelis’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
•  Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
•  Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  the  case  of  Drovelis,  these  measures  are  supplemented  with  additional  risk  minimisation 
measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In  addition  to  these measures, information  about adverse  reactions  is  collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Drovelis is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Drovelis  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Drovelis. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Venous thromboembolism 
Arterial thromboembolism 
Important potential risks 
None 
Missing information 
Exposure during pregnancy  
II.B 
Summary of important risks 
Identified risk: Venous thromboembolism (VTE) 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
The increased risk of VTE (blood clots in the veins) in women 
taking combined oral contraceptives (COCs) has been known for 
many years and is very small. The risk of blood clots in the veins 
varies between COCs, depending on the dose of estrogen and on 
the type of progestin (a hormone) they contain, and ranges from 
5 to 12 cases of blood clots per 10,000 women who use them for 
a year. This compares with 2 cases of blood clots in the veins 
each year per 10,000 women who are not using COCs 
(EMA/35464/2014). Blood clots in the veins of the legs may lead 
to a painful swelling of the legs (deep vein thrombosis [DVT]) 
and very occasionally to life threatening or fatal events if the 
clots are dislodged and travel to the lungs (pulmonary embolism 
[PE]). 
In clinical studies investigating the recommended dose of 
Drovelis in 3790 women, there was one report of deep venous 
thrombosis and another report of superficial thrombophlebitis 
(blood clot in vein near the surface of the skin) but there were no 
cases of pulmonary embolism. As a risk of VTE has been 
identified with other COCs, the possibility of VTE events 
occurring during treatment with Drovelis cannot be ruled out. 
Risk factors for VTE include: obesity (BMI >30 Kgm2), 
prolonged immobilisation, major surgery, any surgery to the legs 
or pelvis, neurosurgery, or major trauma, positive family history 
(VTE ever in a sibling or parent especially at a relatively early 
age e.g. before 50 years), increasing age (particularly above 35 
years) and presence of other medical conditions associated with 
VTE (e.g. cancer, systemic lupus erythematosus, haemolytic 
 
 
 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
uremic syndrome, chronic inflammatory bowel disease [Crohn's 
disease or ulcerative colitis)] and sickle cell disease). 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.1, 4.3, 4.4,4.6, 4.8 
PL section 2, 4 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Educational materials: 
Important information for women:  
Information card for women 
Physician educational material: 
Checklist for prescribers 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Prospective non-interventional comparative cohort study 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the 
post-authorisation development plan. 
Identified risk: Arterial thromboembolism (ATE) 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
The small increased risk of ATE (blood clots in the arteries) in 
women taking COCs has been known for many years and is very 
low.  
In the completed clinical studies, no ATE events were observed. 
However, as a risk of blood clots in the arteries has been 
identified with other COCs, the possibility of ATE events 
occurring during treatment with Drovelis cannot be ruled out. 
Along with other factors, ATE can potentially cause a 
cerebrovascular accident (stroke) or a myocardial infarction 
(heart attack). 
In the clinical studies, no strokes and no heart attacks were 
observed.  
Risk factors for arterial ATE include: increasing age (particularly 
above 35 years), smoking, hypertension, obesity (BMI >30 
Kgm2), positive family history (ATE ever in a sibling or parent 
especially at relatively early age e.g. below 50 years), migraines 
and other medical conditions associated with adverse vascular 
events (e.g. diabetes mellitus, hyperhomocysteinemia, valvular 
heart disease and atrial fibrillation, dyslipoproteinemia and 
systemic lupus erythematosus ). 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.3, 4.4, 4.8 
PL section 2, 4 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Educational materials: 
Important information for women:  
Information card for women 
 
 
 
Physician educational material: 
Checklist for prescribers 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Prospective non-interventional comparative cohort study 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the 
post-authorisation development plan. 
Missing information: Exposure during pregnancy 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.6, 5.3 
PL section 2 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Prospective non-interventional comparative cohort study 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the 
post-authorisation development plan. 
II.C 
Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Drovelis. 
II.C.2  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study short name and title: 
International Active Surveillance Study:  Native Estrogen Estetrol (E4) Safety Study (INAS-
NEES) 
Purpose of the study: 
The COC containing  E4 and  drospirenone  (DRSP) (E4/DRSP) is  a novel  oral  contraceptive 
containing  a  fixed  dose  of  E4  (14.2  mg)  and  DRSP  (3  mg).  E4  is  a  natural  oestrogen  only 
produced  during  pregnancy  by  the  foetal  liver.  When  combined  with  the  progestin  DRSP, 
ovulation  is  inhibited.  The  E4/DRSP  combination  may  have  less  impact  on  hepatic  and 
haemostasis  parameters  in  comparison  to  combinations  of  ethinyl  estradiol  (EE)  and 
levonorgestrel (LNG) or EE and DRSP. Yet, it is unknown whether this regimen has an impact 
on the cardiovascular risk associated with the use of hormonal contraceptives. 
The primary objective is to characterise and compare the risks of E4/DRSP with EE/LNG, in 
a study population that is representative of the actual users of these preparations. This 
includes an estimate of the absolute risk of rare serious adverse outcomes. The main clinical 
outcome of interest is VTE, i.e., DVT of the lower extremities and PE. Secondary objectives 
include measuring the occurrence of unintended pregnancy, assessing the risk of ATE, 
describing the drug utilisation pattern, describing the baseline risk profile for VTE and ATE, 
and investigating outcomes associated with foetal exposure to E4/DRSP. 
 
 
