I. 
SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR 
DUAKLIR GENUAIR 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Duaklir Genuair. The RMP details 
important risks of Duaklir Genuair, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about Duaklir Genuair risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). 
Duaklir Genuair’s Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Duaklir Genuair should 
be used.  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Duaklir 
Genuair’s RMP. 
I.1 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
Duaklir Genuair is authorised for COPD (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains 
aclidinium/formoterol as the active substances and it is given by inhalation. 
Further information about the evaluation of DUAKLIR GENUAIR benefits can be found in 
DUAKLIR GENUAIR’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the 
EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/duaklir-genuair 
I.2 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND 
ACTIVITIES TO MINIMISE OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE 
THE RISKS 
Important risks of aclidinium/formoterol, together with measures to minimise such risks and 
the proposed studies for learning more about aclidinium/formoterol's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
 
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
 
  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of aclidinium/formoterol is not yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
I.2.1 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of aclidinium/formoterol are risks that need special risk management activities 
to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of aclidinium/formoterol. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product 
that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table I-1 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing Information 
None 
Cardiac events (myocardial infarction, cardiac failure, 
cardiac arrhythmias) (aclidinium)  
Cerebrovascular events (stroke, transient ischaemic 
attack) (aclidinium) 
Mortality (aclidinium) 
Safety in patients  newly diagnosed or unstable 
arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, unstable 
angina or heart failure (NYHA Class III or IV) 
requiring recent hospitalisation (aclidinium) 
I.2.2 
Summary of important risks 
Table I-2 
Important potential risk: Cardiac events 
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Aclidinium increases the heart rate in some patients 
which might increase the risk of cardiac failure and 
myocardial infarction. 
Formoterol increases the heart rate, causes palpitations 
and can increase systolic blood pressure. 
Anticipated patient groups at risk of cardiac events 
include elderly and those with a history of cardiac 
disease, hypertension, dyslipidaemia, hyperglycaemia 
or diabetes mellitus, and body mass index >30 kg/m2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table I-2 
Important potential risk: Cardiac events 
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine 
Risk minimisation measures 
Aclidinium increases the heart rate in some patients 
which might increase the risk of cardiac failure and 
myocardial infarction. 
Formoterol increases the heart rate, causes palpitations 
and can increase systolic blood pressure. 
Routine risk minimisation measures:  
SmPC Section 4.4, also presented in PIL 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
PASS Study D6560R00004 
Table I-3 
Important potential risk: Cerebrovascular events 
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
If aclidinium increases the risk of myocardial 
infarction or atrial fibrillation, the risk of blood clots 
forming in the left atrium or left ventricle also 
increases, which in turn increases the risk of stroke. If 
one of the components in aclidinium/formoterol 
increases the risk of stroke, aclidinium/formoterol also 
increases the risk of stroke, although formoterol 
appears not to increase the risk of stroke. 
COPD patients have a moderate increase in the risk of 
strokes compared with non-COPD patients. Known 
risk factors include hypertension, dyslipidaemia, 
diabetes, atrial fibrillation, arterial stenosis, smoking, 
obesity, poor diet and physical inactivity. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
PASS Study D6560R00004 
Table I-4 
Important potential risk: Mortality 
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine 
There is currently no evidence of an increase in 
mortality with DUAKLIR GENUAIR 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Population-based studies have shown risk of mortality 
in patients with COPD to be greater in men and 
greatest in elderly adults aged 75 years and older. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table I-4 
Important potential risk: Mortality 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
PASS Study D6560R00004 
Table I-5 
Missing information: Patients with the following concomitant illnesses: 
newly diagnosed or unstable arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, 
unstable angina or heart failure 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: SmPC section 
4.4, PIL section 2. 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
D6560R00004/PASS (cardiac components),  
I.2.3 
Post-authorisation development plan 
I.2.3.1 
Study short name: Post-Authorisation Safety Study D6560R00004 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
Rationale and study objectives: To evaluate the cardiovascular safety concerns and all-cause 
mortality of aclidinium, aclidinium/formoterol and other bronchodilators used in patients with 
COPD. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
