EMA/668089/2014  
EMEA/H/C/002314 
EPAR summary for the public 
Duavive 
conjugated oestrogens / bazedoxifene 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Duavive. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Duavive. 
For practical information about using Duavive, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Duavive and what is it used for? 
Duavive is a medicine used for the treatment of symptoms (such as hot flushes) caused by low blood 
levels of the female hormone oestrogen in women who have been through the menopause. It is used 
in women who still have their uterus (womb) and who cannot be treated with progestogen-containing 
medicines (medicines derived from the hormone called progesterone). 
Duavive contains two active substances: conjugated oestrogens and bazedoxifene.  
How is Duavive used? 
Duavive can only be obtained with a prescription. It is available as modified release tablets (containing 
0.45 mg conjugated oestrogens and 20 mg bazedoxifene) which release bazedoxifene immediately and 
conjugated oestrogens over a longer period of time. 
The recommended dose of Duavive is one tablet once a day. Treatment should be for the shortest 
duration possible as long as benefits outweigh risks.  
How does Duavive work? 
One of the active substances in Duavive, conjugated oestrogens, works as hormone replacement 
therapy. It replaces the oestrogen hormones that are no longer produced naturally in women who have 
been through the menopause, thereby alleviating symptoms such as hot flushes.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
However, oestrogens used alone can cause hyperplasia (growth) of the endometrium (lining of the 
womb) which could lead to endometrial cancer. Duavive therefore also contains the active substance 
bazedoxifene, which blocks the effects of oestrogens on the womb and so reduces the risk of 
endometrial cancer.   
Both active substances have been available in the European Union (EU) for a number of years. 
Conjugated oestrogens have been available for many years as hormone replacement therapy and 
bazedoxifene has been authorised in 2009 for the treatment of osteoporosis (a disease that makes 
bones fragile) in women who have been through the menopause. 
What benefits of Duavive have been shown in studies? 
Duavive was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in two main studies in 996 women who 
have been through the menopause, investigating the effects on either hot flushes or vulvovaginal 
atrophy (dryness, irritation and soreness around the genital area). An additional study also looked at 
the effects of Duavive on osteoporosis. 
In the study investigating the effects on hot flushes, treatment with Duavive (conjugated oestrogen 
0.45 mg and bazedoxifene 20 mg) over 12 weeks reduced the average daily number of moderate and 
severe hot flushes by 7.6 compared with 4.9 for placebo. Treatment with Duavive also led to a greater 
average fall in the daily severity score of hot flushes than placebo treatment: 0.9 versus 0.3. Similar 
results were seen with a higher strength of conjugated oestrogen (0.625 mg) plus bazedoxifene 20 mg 
when compared with placebo.  
The study looking at the effects of Duavive on vulvovaginal atrophy found an improvement in some of 
the signs of vaginal atrophy but not in the most bothersome symptoms when compared with placebo.  
Because studies with the higher strength combination did not sufficiently show that this strength was 
more effective than the approved strength of Duavive, the company withdrew its application for the 
former. One of the studies also looked at the effects of Duavive on osteoporosis; however, as there 
was no benefit of Duavive over the individual components the company withdrew its application for 
Duavive in the treatment of osteoporosis.  
What are the risks associated with Duavive? 
The most common side effect with Duavive (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is abdominal 
pain (stomach ache). 
Some women must not use Duavive including those who have had problems with venous 
thromboembolism (blood clots in the veins) such as deep-vein thrombosis (DVT), pulmonary embolism 
(a blood clot in the lungs) and retinal-vein thrombosis (a blood clot at the back of the eye), or are at 
an increased risk of such problems. It must not be used in women who have had a stroke or heart 
attack. It must also not be used in women who have, are likely to have or have had breast cancer or 
other cancers that are known to be oestrogen-dependent. Duavive is only for use in women who have 
been through the menopause, so it must not be used in women who could become pregnant. 
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Duavive, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Duavive approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Duavive’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. Duavive was shown 
to improve the symptoms caused by lack of oestrogen in postmenopausal women when compared with 
Duavive  
EMA/668089/2014 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
placebo. Because the observed treatment effects were smaller than what is seen with alternative 
treatments (progestogen-containing treatments) the CHMP therefore concluded that Duavive should be 
reserved for women who cannot take these alternative medicines.  
Regarding safety, the long-term risk of endometrial hyperplasia has not been fully investigated and the 
CHMP recommended further studies to be carried out. The CHMP also noted that long-term use of 
Duavive is associated with a risk of stroke and venous thromboembolism which is similar to the risk 
with conjugated oestrogens and bazedoxifene when used alone. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Duavive? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Duavive is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Duavive, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan.  
Other information about Duavive 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Duavive on 16 December 2014.  
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Duavive can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Duavive, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 12-2014. 
Duavive  
EMA/668089/2014 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
