SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Dukoral. For information on 
changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Dukoral is intended for active immunisation against cholera in adults and children from 2 years of age 
who will be visiting endemic/epidemic areas. The use of Dukoral should be determined on the basis of 
official  recommendations  taking  into  account  the  variability  of  epidemiology  and  the  risk  of 
contracting disease in different geographical areas and travelling conditions.  
Dukoral  has  been  licensed  in  Sweden  since  1991  with  chemically  purified  Cholera  Toxin  (CTB).  A 
national  variation  for  the  introduction  of  Cholera  Toxin  produced  by  recombinant  DNA  technology 
(rCTB) was submitted and granted in Sweden in 1992. Dukoral was initially available in the Cholera 
indication  only  and  received  an  extension  of  indication  in  1995  in  Sweden  for  traveller’s  diarrhea 
caused  by  LT-ETEC.  With  the  effect  of  the  Commission  decision,  the  national  authorisations  are 
expected  to  be  phased-out  with  an  appropriate  transition/communication  plan  to  be  provided  by  the 
applicant.  The  details  of  the  plan  shall  be  agreed  nationally  with  the  Member  State  concerned  as 
reflected in the letter of commitment. 
Due to the recombinant nature of one of the active ingredients, Dukoral qualifies as a part A product. 
The application was submitted in accordance with Art. 8.3. of the Commission Directive 2001/83/EC, 
as  amended  with  studies  carried  out  by  the  applicant  and  of  bibliographical  references  (mixed 
application). 
Cholera 
Bacteriology 
Epidemic  and  pandemic  cholera  disease  is  caused  by  Vibrio  cholerae,  mainly  of  serogroup  O1  that 
produces cholera toxin. The division of V. cholerae into different O serogroups is based on its major 
surface  antigen,  the  heat  stable  endotoxin.  The  endotoxin  is  a  lipopolysaccharide  (LPS),  where  the 
lipid portion of the molecule is embedded in the cell wall and the polysaccharide extends out from the 
surface of the bacteria. 
Two  dominating  serotypes  (subtypes)  of  serogroup  O1,  Ogawa  and  Inaba,  have  been  identified.  V. 
cholerae O1 strains have been shown to shift between these two serotypes. The O1 polysaccharide is 
built  up  from  repeating  units  of  a  perosamine.  The  Ogawa  polysaccharide  has  a  single  2-O-methyl 
group  in  its  terminal  perosamine  unit,  which  is  absent  in  Inaba  LPS.  V.  cholerae  Inaba  strains  have 
been  shown  to  be  mutants  of  wild-type  Ogawa  strains  that  have  lost  the  ability  to  methylate  the 
terminal  perosamine.  V.  cholerae  O1  strains  have  been  further  divided  into  two  biotypes,    Classical 
and El Tor. El Tor strains differ from Classical strains by agglutinating chicken erythrocytes, mediated 
by the mannose sensitive haemagglutinogen (MSHA).  
An  antibacterial  response  is  seen  in  humans  after  natural  disease.  The  anti-bacterial  response  is 
measured as serum vibriocidal antibodies, i.e. the ability of a serum to kill V. cholerae bacteria in the 
presence of complement. This assay has been found to show the best correlation to protection. It has 
been  shown  that  most  of  the  vibriocidal  antibodies  are  directed  against  LPS,.  It  is  not  believed  that 
vibriocidal  antibodies  are  directly  involved  in  protection  but  their  presence  serves  as  a  marker  of 
intestinal secretory IgA antibodies against LPS, which mediate the actual protection. 
1/26 
EMEA 2005    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disease and epidemiology 
Cholera continues to threaten many countries and constitutes a major global public health problem. In 
1998, worldwide, a total of 293,111 cases of cholera and 10,586 deaths from cholera were reported to 
the  World  Health Organization (WHO). Since these figures are based  only on  official  reports  to the 
WHO,  they  probably  underestimate  the  true  numbers  of  cholera  cases  and  deaths.  Nevertheless, 
compared  with  previous  years,  the  1998  figures  represent  a  significant  increase  in  reported  cholera 
cases  and  deaths  worldwide,  despite  continued  efforts  to  provide  clean  drinking  water  and  basic 
sanitation. 
Cholera is spread via contaminated water or food with humans as the only known host.. In endemic 
areas the prevalence is highest in children  and decreases with age, as  immunity  is  acquired. In non-
endemic  areas  the  cholera  prevalence  is  not  age-dependent,  as  all individuals are non-immune. Risk 
factors for cholera include low socio-economic status, poor sanitation, poverty, hypochlorhydria, lack 
of breastfeeding in infants and blood group O (for El Tor cholera). Typical symptoms of cholera are 
watery diarrhoea associated with dehydration. The fluid loss can be up to 20 liters a day, which leads 
to  severe  dehydration,  unconsciousness  and  death  within  18  hours  if  untreated.  When  an  epidemic 
strikes an area where health care is not adequate the results can be disastrous, as happened in a refugee 
camp in Goma, Zaire in 1994. An estimated 58,000-80,000 cases and 23,800 deaths occurred within 
one month. 
We are still experiencing the 7th cholera pandemic, caused by the El Tor biotype of V. cholerae O1. It 
started in 1961 in Indonesia and has since then spread across the world, reaching West Africa in 1970 
and South America in 1991. By the end of 1996, cholera had spread to 21 countries in Latin America, 
causing over 1 million cases and more than 11,000 deaths. Until 1992 only V. cholera serogroup O1 
caused  epidemic  cholera,  but  that  year  a  previously  unrecognised  serogroup  of  the  El  Tor  biotype, 
designated  O139  (synonym  Bengal),  was  discovered  during  large  cholera  outbreaks  in  India  and 
Bangladesh.  Isolation  of  V.  cholera  serogroup  O139  has  since  been  reported  from  11  countries  in 
South-East Asia The 0139 serogroup has been confined to this area without any tendency of pandemic 
spread so far. According to the WHO V. cholerae O139 accounted for 15% of laboratory-confirmed 
cholera cases in a cholera-endemic country of Asia. Cholera epidemiology in Calcutta, India 1992-98, 
has  revealed  that  O139  dominated  during  1992-93  and  1996-97,  whereas  O1  strains  predominated 
during the rest of the period.V. cholerae strains falls into two groups based on serotyping; O1 and non-
O1.  The  O1  strains  are  associated  with  epidemic  outbreaks,  whereas  the  non-O1  strains,  with  the 
exception  of  the  above-mentioned  O139,  can  cause  sporadic  cholera-like  disease.  Worldwide,  V. 
cholerae O1, biotype El Tor predominates, whereas the Classical biotype exists in certain locations on 
the Indian subcontinent. 
Vaccines and treatments 
Conventionally, strategies to prevent cholera have focussed upon basic sanitary and hygiene measures 
such as treated water supplies, improving water delivery and sewage control, hand washing facilities, 
latrines  and  adequate  hygiene  in  food  handling.  It  is  important  to  continue  to  support  these 
recommendations because they are efficient when properly applied, but it is also recognized that they 
are often difficult to implement in full.  
The  treatment  for  cholera  recommended  by  the  WHO  is  oral  rehydration  solution  (ORS),  which 
reduces mortality from 50% down to 1%. In severe cases intravenous fluid replacement is necessary. 
Antibiotics can be used to treat severe cholera and may shorten the duration of disease and thereby to 
decrease  the  risk  for  further  spread  of  the  disease.  Misguided  use  of  antibiotics  has  led  to  the 
emergence of multiresistant cholera strains 
The best way to avoid cholera is to have access to safe water supplies, and avoid contaminated foods. 
However,  safe  water  supplies  are  not  available  to  a  great  proportion  of  the  world  population. 
Therefore, a cholera vaccine has an important role in preventing illness and death in areas where good 
sanitation is difficult to implement. It should be clear that a cholera vaccine is considered only as an 
2/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
additional tool to prevent cholera and will not replace any of the other cholera prevention and control 
interventions recommended by the WHO. 
A parenteral vaccine based on inactivated V. cholerae O1 has been available for more than 40 years, 
but  only  offers  up  to  50%  protection  for  3-6  months  and  is  associated  with  considerable  local  and 
systemic  adverse  reactions.  WHO  does  not  recommend  this  vaccine?  Since  both  the  cholera  vibrios 
and the toxin they produce remain localised to the intestinal surface and lumen and exert their action 
locally  on  the  epithelium  during  infection,  local  intestinal  immunity  is  of  critical  importance  for 
protection. The most efficient way of eliciting an intestinal IgA response is by oral vaccination. It is 
against  this  background  that  the  development  of  oral  rather  than  parenteral  vaccines  against  cholera 
has  been  in  the  focus  over  the  past  20  years.  Dukoral  was  developed  as  an  oral  vaccine,  containing 
both killed bacterial cells and the cholera toxin B subunit, thereby including the most important known 
protective antigens. Another oral cholera vaccine has also been licensed in certain countries it is a live 
attenuated vaccine based on the genetically manipulated V. cholerae strain CVD103-HgR. Although 
this vaccine had shown promising efficacy in challenged North American volunteers, it did not show 
adequate  efficacy  when  tested  in  an  endemic  area  and  has  therefore  not  received  a  general 
recommendation by WHO.  
In  a    recent  position  paper  (2001.  Choleravaccines.  WHO  position  paper:  Weekly  Epidemiological 
Record 76:117-124) of the WHO the following recommendation is given: “Among the new-generation 
cholera  vaccines,  convincing  protection  in  field  situations  has  been  demonstrated  only  with  the 
WC/rBS vaccine. Thus, the WC/rBS (Dukoral) vaccine should be considered in populations believed 
to be at imminent risk of a cholera epidemic.” For immunization of travellers to highly endemic areas 
either of the two oral cholera vaccines could be used according to the WHO.  
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
The composition of the vaccine is given in the following table. 
Reference 
Table 1. Complete composition of Dukoral 
Ingredient 
Recombinant CTB  
Vibrio cholerae O1 Inaba classical 
biotype, heat inactivated 
Vibrio cholerae O1 Inaba  El Tor 
biotype, formalin inactivated 
Vibrio cholerae O1 Ogawa classical 
biotype heat inactivated 
Vibrio cholerae O1 Ogawa classical 
biotype, formalin inactivated. 
Phosphate buffered Saline pH 7.2-7.4 
Ph Eur 
Amount  
1 mg 
25x 109 bacteria 
Function 
Active ingredient 
Active ingredient 
25x 109 bacteria 
Active ingredient 
25x 109 bacteria 
Active ingredient 
25x 109 bacteria 
Active ingredient 
Ad 3 ml 
Buffer 
The  Phosphate  buffered  Saline  (PBS)  consist/  ml  of  Sodium  dihydrogen  phosphate  monohydrate 
0.576 mg Disodium phosphate dihydrate 3.13 mg, Sodium chloride 8.5 mg and water for injections ad 
1 ml. 
The vaccine is filled in a colourless glass vial with a bromobutyl rubber stopper and a polypropylene 
screw  cap.  The  buffer  is  supplied  in  paper  sachets.  Standard  materials  are being used for packaging 
material  (glass  vials,  rubber  stoppers,  and  screw  caps)  in  compliance  with  the  specifications  and 
requirements of the European Pharmacopoeia. 
A bicarbonate buffer is included in the product and is taken with the vaccine in order to neutralise the 
stomach  acid  that  otherwise  destroys  CTB.  Its  nature  has  changed  during  development.  The  current 
formulation is in the form of an effervescent granulation dispensed into sachets and contains saccharin 
sodium as a sweetening agent and raspberry flavour as aroma. There are no functional differences, the 
main  issue  being  the  buffering  capacity,  between  the  various  preparations.  The  production  of  the 
buffer is straightforward.  
3/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference 
Ph Eur 
The buffer sachet contains the following: 
Ingredient 
Sodium hydrogen 
carbonate 
Citric acid anhydrous 
Raspberry flavour 
Saccharin sodium 
Sodium carbonate 
Sodium citrate 
Water, purified 
Ph Eur 
Own monograph 
Ph Eur 
Ph Eur 
Ph Eur 
Ph Eur 
Amount 
3. 6 g 
1,45 g 
70 mg 
30 mg 
400 mg 
6 mg 
Disappears during manufacture 
Function 
Effervescent agent 
Effervescent agent 
Aroma 
Sweetening agent 
Effervescent agent 
Effervescent agent 
Granulating liquid 
Active substance 
The active substances are Recombinant Cholera toxin B subunit and four whole cell bulks; Vibrio 
cholerae O1 Inaba, classical biotype, heat inactivated, Vibrio cholerae O1 Inaba, El Tor biotype, 
formalin inactivated, Vibrio cholerae O1 Ogawa, classical biotype heat inactivated and Vibrio 
cholerae O1 Ogawa, classical biotype, formalin inactivated. 
Whole cell bulks 
Specifications for monovalent bacterial bulks 
Specification 
Test method 
Test attribute 
Beige opalescent suspension 
Visual inspection 
Physical appearance 
6.7-7.6 
Potentiometry 
pH 
Homogeneous suspension. No visible aggregation 
Visual  
Homogeneity 
Gram staining 
Purity 
Only Gram negative rods 
Slide agglutination  Agglutination with serotype specific antibodies 
Identification of serotype 
LPS concentration 
Inhibition ELISA 
LPS concentration/ 1011 bacteria 
Tested and reported 
> 400 EU/ 1011 bacteria for Inaba El Tor  
 > 350 EU/ 1011 bacteria for heat inactivated Inaba, 
classical  
> 850 EU/ 1011 bacteria for Ogawa, classical  heat 
and formalin inactivated. 
Sterile 
No decrease in weight, no signs of morbidity 
NMT 10 mM 
Sterility  
Innocuity 
Residual formaldehyde 
(when relevant) 
Residual Cholera toxin activity 
Ph Eur Direct 
inokulation 
Mouse weight gain 
assay 
Colour reaction 
GM-1 ELISA 
< 50 ng/ 1011 bacteria 
The testing fulfils the WHO requirements. 
The  bacterial  bulks  are  produced  from  established  seed-lot  systems  that  are  controlled  by  standard 
microbiological and biochemical methods generally used in vaccine production. The microbiological 
methods include viability, purity (Gram-staining), and agglutination (Ogawa or Inaba serotype specific 
antibodies).  The  biochemical  properties  include  fermentation  pattern  of  sugars,  haemagglutination, 
haemolytic  activity,  acetoin  production,  and  polymyxine  sensitivity.  In  all,  the  tests  identify  the 
serotype  (Ogawa  or  Inaba)  and  the  biotype  (classical  or  El  Tor)  of  cholera  bacteria  belonging  to 
serogroup  O1.  The  El  Tor  biotype  differs  from  classical  by  displaying  haemagglutinating  and 
haemolytic activity, acetoin production, and polymyxine resistance. 
The whole cell bulks are produced using standard techniques. The different seeds are grown in 550 L 
fermenters using a well-characterised cholera medium. The cells are harvested and concentrated. The 
concentrated suspension is then either subjected to heat inactivation at 56°C or formalin inactivation 
(0.5  %).  The  formalin  bulks  are  then  subjected  to  a  2nd  concentration  step  to  remove  residual 
formaldehyde. The inactivated material is filled in Hyclone plastic bags and stored at 5°C. 
Both  heat-  and  formalin-inactivation  processes  have  been  appropriately  validated.  It  is  important  to 
note that validation deals with the inactivation of the bacteria and not necessarily with the inactivation 
4/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of the toxin. However, data have been shown that the level of residual toxin is very low (not more than 
20 ng per dose). A routine test for this has been introduced. 
rCTB 
Specifications for rCTB bulks 
Test attribute 
Physical appearance 
Identification  
pH 
Antigen concentration 
Protein content 
Antigenic purity 
Purity 
Purity 
Purity 
Sterility 
Test method 
Visual inspection 
Ouchterlony 
immunoelectro-
phoresis 
Potentiometry 
Mancini  
Kjeldahl 
Antigen content/ 
protein content 
RP-HPLC 
SDS-PAGE 
SE-HPLC 
Ph Eur Membrane 
filtration 
Specification 
Clear, colourless to weakly yellow solution. Some 
particles may occur. 
Immunological identity with rCTB and CTB 
7.0-7.6 
> 1 mg rCTB/ml 
>1 mg protein/ml 
NLT 0.8 mg rCTB/ mg protein 
< 10 % unrelated proteins 
Not more than 2 bands visible; one major at 12 kD 
and one minor if present at 23 kD 
Area of pentamer peak > 90 % of integrated area. 
Sterile 
The  recombinant  CTB  is  a  protein  of  102  amino  acids  containing  one disulphide bridge (cys 9-  cys 
86).  It  is  produced  in  Vibrio  cholerae  strain  213  of  serotype  Inaba,  biotype  classical  with  a  deleted 
CTA gene. A plasmid containing the CTB gene and an ampicillin resistance gene has been introduced. 
The seed lot system is tested for V cholerae characteristics as well as plasmid retention and ability to 
produce rCTB. In the preparation of seed lots and preculture, ampicillin is used in the culture medium 
while it is removed during the main fermentation.  
During  development  of  the  production  method  for  CTB,  some  changes  have  been  introduced.  The 
initially used native CTB has been replaced by a recombinantly produced CTB. Both molecules have 
been extensively characterised and shown to be comparable, except for six short peptide extensions at 
the  N-terminal  in  rCTB.  Several  changes  have  also  been  introduced  in  the  rCTB  process,  which 
increased the purity of the rCTB preparation, but did not alter the characteristics of the CTB protein. 
In former processes, plasmids were lost when not grown under ampicillin pressure. This is no longer 
seen  in  an  improved  method  of  preparation  where  a  continuous  feed  of  glucose  and  an  addition  of 
casamino acids are introduced. 
The main fermentation is performed in 500-litre scale at +36 °C with aeration and agitation designed 
to keep pO2 at 30 %. The fermentation is terminated after approximately 18 hours by cooling (OD at 
600 nm shall be at least 8). The suspension is harvested and concentrated by ultrafiltration (MWCO 
1000  kD).  The  concentrate  is  precipitated  by  addition  of  sodium  hexametaphosphate    (2g/L)  and 
adjustment  of  pH  to  4.9.  The  precipitate  is  stored  at  2-8°C  for  14  hours  to  5  days.  The  solution 
containing  the  dissolved  rCTB  is  centrifuged  and  filtered  to  remove  non-dissolved  matter  (e.g  LPS, 
other lipids and proteins. The rCTB is then purified by hydroxyapatite chromatography.  
The  collected  rCTB  peaks  are  pooled  and  the  buffer  is  changed  to  a  0.02  M  phosphate  buffer.  The 
rCTB solution is then membrane-filtered (0.22 um) and aseptically dispensed in 1 or 2 L borosilicate 
glass bottles. The rCTB production process has been validated by production and characterisation of 
three  consecutive  rCTB  batches.  Testing  critical  variables  throughout  the  process  showed  process 
consistency.  Characterisation  of  the  three  rCTB  batches  produced  also  demonstrated  batch-to-batch 
consistency. 
5/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Characterisation  
Data to show the characteristics of rCTB have been submitted including comparisons with native CTB 
(used  in  the  initial  clinical  studies).  The  process  for  native  CTB  resulted  in  a  very  pure  protein,  as 
rigorous  purification  processes  have  to  be  applied  for  native  CTB  to  remove  all  traces  of  Cholera 
Toxin  A.  For  rCTB,  expressed  from  a  strain  which  cannot  express  the  CTA  and  which  should  be 
blended with a mixture of killed whole cell bulks of the same bacterial specie, the absolute purity is of 
less importance. However, data from rCTB analyses of the current process indicates that the purity of 
the rCTB currently produced is comparable to the purity with the CTB used in the initial trials. 
The characterisation is not as  extensive as one normally sees for recombinant products but taken all 
together nevertheless deemed sufficient for its purpose. Further details can be found in the discussion 
part  of  this  Report.  Five  or  six  molecular  species  with  different  molecular  mass  corresponding  to 
different N-termini were found in MS analysis. The findings are consistent with what was found in N-
terminal analysis where 6 different N-termini were detected, all of them extensions of the native CTB 
up to 7 amino acids. No truncated forms compared to native CTB were found. The results are due to 
the construct of the vector and expression cassette and the variants found were the expected, based on 
the construct and forms in between. After long time storage of the rCTB under refrigerated conditions 
and shorter under RT, there is a tendency of a shoulder of the peak found in the RP-HPLC which is 
explained to be related to the presence of low proteolytic enzyme activity, probably due to a Type I 
signal  peptidase.  In  no  case  has  a  sequence  shorter  than  the native CTB  been seen and the Protease 
activity has decreased in later batches. In any case, the result of the trimming is a "more correct", i.e. 
less  extended,  form  of  the  protein,  hence  the  finding  raises  no  concern.  In  view  of  the  route  of 
administration,  the  risk  associated  with  the  peptidase  activity  in  the  formulation  is  negligible  when 
administered to humans and of no significance to the safety of the product 
Active substance stability 
Whole cell bulks 
The  applicant  proposes  a  storage  period  of  3  years  under  refrigerated  conditions  for  the  whole  cell 
bulks, which is substantiated by based on stability data. The tests of the bacterial bulks were physical 
appearance, pH, homogeneity, innocuity, O1-LPS content, and sterility.   
rCTB 
The tests of the rCTB bulks were physical appearance, sterility, pH, absorbance at 280 and 310 nm, 
protein nitrogen, SDS-PAGE, RP-HPLC, size exclusion chromatography, and antigen concentration as 
measured by single radial immunodiffusion (Mancini test).  
Stability  data  for  36  months  at  2-8  °C  have  been  submitted  both  for  material  produced  via  the  new 
process  and  using  the  former  process  justifying  a  storage  period  for  3  years  at  5°C.  In  the  intitial 
documentation  the  results  shown  for  the  new  material  all  indicated  a  downward  trend  in  antigenic 
content between 18 and 24 months. The manufacturer then submitted data from later time points from 
which it appears that the lower results at t=24 months was a single occasion event only and is not seen 
at later analyses.  
A shoulder is seen in the main peak in RP-HPLC chromatograms of samples stored for 6 months at 25 
°C.  Upon  even  further  storage,  this  shoulder  may  even  turn  into  a  distinct  peak  and  could  also  be 
detected in samples stored at 5 °C. This phenomenon was not observed in samples stored at -70 °C. It 
was shown that this was the result of cleavage of the longer N-terminal extra amino acids present in 
rCTB  into  shorter  extensions,  due  to  the  presence  of  minute  amounts  of  the  Signal  peptidase  I, 
responsible for cleavage of the signal peptide at the N-terminal of the rCTB molecule. However, no 
cleavage product shorter than native CTB has been found.  
Other ingredients 
The other ingredient of the preparation is a phosphate buffered saline which constituents fulfil the Ph 
Eur. 
6/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product development and finished product 
The composition of the product has been acceptably justified. The vaccine contains whole cell bacteria 
to create an anti-bacterial response and the B subunit of cholera toxin to create an anti-toxin response. 
The B subunit exists as a homopentamer surrounding the toxic A subunit (CTA). A response to the B 
subunit will also neutralise the toxic effect of the CTA.  
The vaccine is formulated as an oral suspension. The antigens are aseptically mixed with autoclaved 
PBS and filled in 3.2 ml doses to allow for a extractable does of 3 ml.  
The dosage form of the vaccine was chosen based on knowledge about intestinal immunity, indicating 
that that the oral route is superior to the parenteral for stimulating an immune response in the gut. The 
only additive used, PBS, was chosen to control the pH and salt concentration, in order to improve the 
stability of the antigens. Regardless of the fact that the vaccine is intended for oral administration it is 
formulated as a sterile product.  
In the initial dose-finding clinical trials of the vaccine conducted by the University of Göteborg, the 
Swedish parenteral vaccine, albeit in a concentrated form, was used for establishing the oral dose of 
bacteria  and  CTB.  One  dose  contained  25  x  109  of  both  heat-inactivated  classical  Ogawa  and  Inaba 
bacteria.  In  these  trials,  the  vibriocidal  response  was  found  to  be  slightly  lower  than  after  natural 
disease and it was decided to double the dose of bacteria. As there were no bacteria of El Tor biotype 
in the vaccine it was decided to include an El Tor strain. Due to lack of knowledge of whether heat-
inactivation  might  deteriorate  protein  antigens  possibly  contributing  to  protection,  e.g.  MSHA,  a 
formalin-inactivation  procedure  was  chosen  for  this  strain.  Since  the  El  Tor  strain  selected  was  of 
serotype  Inaba,  it  was  for  the  same  reasoning  decided  to  include  formalin-inactivated  bacteria  of 
serotype Ogawa. For simplicity, the classical Ogawa strain already included in the vaccine in a heat-
inactivated form was chosen for this purpose. However, detailed information about the structure of the 
polysaccharide of O1 LPS was lacking at the time of the formulation of the vaccine. Accordingly, it 
could not be ruled out that formalin would have a negative effect on the immunogenicity of the LPS 
molecule.  This  state  of  knowledge  laid  the  foundations for including V. cholerae O1 strains of both 
classical  and  El  Tor  biotypes  and  of  both  Ogawa  and Inaba serotypes in the oral vaccine as  well as 
using both heat- and formalin-inactivation of the two serotypes. 
Furthermore,  the  vaccine  was  formulated  with  the  aim  of  inducing  both  anti-bacterial and anti-toxic 
mucosal  immunity  in  the  gut  after  oral  administration,  a  combination  that  had  proven  to  protect 
synergistically  in  animal  models.  In  order  to  achieve  also  anti-toxic  immunity,  the  B-subunit  of 
cholera toxin (CT) was included in the oral vaccine. Cholera toxin, like many other bacterial toxins, is 
built up from two subunits A and B. The A-subunit, itself built up by two peptides A1 and A2, exerts 
the  toxic  enzymatic  activity  of  the  toxin.  The  B-subunit,  in  the  form  of  a  homopentamer,  binds  the 
toxin  to  its  target  cell  and  delivers  the  A-subunit  into  the  cell  but  has  no  toxic  effect  in  itself.  A 
majority of the antibodies against CT, obtained either after natural disease or immunisation, is directed 
against the B-subunit. Also, because most part of the A-subunit is embedded within the ring-formed 
homo-pentameric  structure  of  the  B-subunit,  antibodies  against  the  A  subunit,  even  if  they  were 
induced, would have little effect on the neutralisation of the toxin. Using the B-subunit alone instead 
of the whole CT molecule in the oral cholera vaccine will thus not noticeably reduce the neutralising 
immune response.  
For the manufacture, the monovalent cholera bulks are weighed with a nominal amount bacteria per 
dose of 25x 109. As the bacteria are inactivated, live count can for this reason not be performed. The 
amount added is instead added based on the bacterial content prior to inactivation.  
The PBS is prepared and autoclaved at 121°C for 30 minutes. The buffer, the monovalent bulks and 
the rCTB bulk is aseptically mixed and stirred to homogeneity (3 hours). Following discussions with 
the applicant, a membrane filtration of the rCTB bulk has been introduced just prior to adding to the 
final bulk.Due to their nature the whole cell bulks can not be membrane filtered. Each vial is sealed 
with a rubber stopper and a screw cap with a safety ring.  
7/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The vaccine production process has been appropriately validated and is substantiated by batch analysis 
data,  which  conform  with  the  pre-set  criteria  for  acceptance  including  the  final  lot  and  final  bulk 
specifications.  Homogeneity  of  the  bulk  was  maintained  throughout  the  filling  process,  as 
demonstrated  by  measurements  of  the  optical  density  at  600  nm  of  samples  withdrawn  during  and 
after filling. Environmental monitoring and media fills also showed the aseptic nature of the process. 
Thus, the production process for the vaccine is shown to be suitable and to consistently yield a product 
of the desired quality. 
Release and shelf-life specifications for Final bulk 
Test attribute 
Physical appearance 
PH 
Homogeneity 
Purity  
Antigen concentration 
O1-LPS 
rCTB 
Residual formaldehyde 
Sterility 
Test method 
Visual control 
Ph Eur 
Visual control 
Gram staining 
Inhibition ELISA ≥ 750 ELU/dose 
0.8 - 1.2 mg/dose 
Mancini 
< 6.7 mM 
No microbial growth 
Specification 
Beige opalescent suspension 
6.5 - 7.4 
Homogeneous suspension, no visible aggregation 
Only Gram negative rods 
Table 5. Release and shelf-life specifications for Final lot 
Test attribute 
Sterility 
Specification 
No microbial growth 
Ph Eur Direct 
inoculation 
Slide 
agglutination 
Ouchterlony 
Test method 
Ph Eur Direct 
inoculation 
Slide 
agglutination 
Ouchterlony 
Agglutination with Inaba and Ogawa specific 
antibodies 
Identity with B subunit ( rCTB/ CTB) 
Agglutination with Inaba and Ogawa specific 
antibodies 
Identity with B subunit ( rCTB/ CTB) 
Identity 
Identity 
Withdraw able volume is not tested in the final specification. However, this is tested in process during 
filling. 
Table 6. Release and shelf-life specifications for Dukoral finished product 
Test attribute 
Identity 
Test method 
Slide 
agglutination 
Visual inspection Labelling in accordance with specifications 
Specification 
Agglutination with Inaba and Ogawa specific  
antibodies 
Control of labelling 
A test for immunogenicity is also proposed but in line with the WHO discussions where it was found 
that this method had little or no relevance for determining the activity of an oral vaccine it is proposed 
that this is deleted. 
Analytical methods have been appropriately validated and a good reproducibility is indicated by batch 
analysis data.  
Biological starting materials are appropriately treated to kill viral contaminants that possibly could be 
present in the material. The seeds and the biological starting material are not considered as a source of 
viral contamination.  
TSE risk assessment 
Few  components  of  animal origin are used in the production of the vaccine. Most of  the  material is 
either  from  species  where  no  TSE  issue  exists  (pig,  horse)  or  from  milk  of  bovine  origin  where  the 
process  is  such  that  it  falls  out  of  the  TSE  guideline.  A  policy  on  which  countries  of  origin  are 
accepted is submitted.  
8/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sodium taurocholate was used in the establishment of the seed lot system in 1996/97. No certification 
can be obtained from historical material. The material contains ovine bile of New Zealand origin. The 
taurocholate agar is used for passaging the seeds, which are then scraped off the agar plates. The agar 
is  hard  and  great  care  is  taken  to  remove  only  the  bacteria  in  the  preparation,  so  only  very  minute 
amounts,  if  any,  of  the  agar  will  be  transferred  to  the  Working  seed.  From  this,  together  with  the 
geographical  origin  of  the  material  (New  Zealand)  and  the  classification  of  bile  as  being  of  no 
detectable infectivity it is deemed that the TSE risk associated with the use of ovine bile is negligible 
and  that  the  requirements  can  be  considered  as  fulfilled.  When  producing  new  working  seeds,  the 
applicant should preferably use certified material and will report on future plans and progress on the 
introduction of such material. 
Stability of the Product 
Stability  of  the  vaccine  as  well  as  of  the  buffer  system  as  reflected  by  the  shelf  life  in  the  SPC  has 
been appropriately investigated and substantiated by batch analysis data with results remaining within 
the set specifications.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Maufacturing, testing and stability of Dukoral are acceptably described. The product fulfills the WHO 
requirements as adopted in 2001. 
Toxin Coregulated Pili (TCP) and mannose sensitive hemagglutinin (MSHA) have been suggested as 
influencing  factors  in  the  establishment  of  immunity  to  cholera.  These  factors  are  however  not 
monitored in the production of Dukoral, thus their possible presence cannot be established. The role of 
TCP  and  MSHA  in  colonisation  and  pathogenesis  in  human  cholera  as  well  as  immune  response 
against TCP and MSHA and in vitro expression of TCP and MSHA has been investigated in several 
studies. Evidence has been provided to show that a) the amount of the antigens are likely very low in 
the product and b) they are not important for an inactivated vaccine like this justifying the absence of 
their monitoring. 
The WHO requirements also require applicants to assure freedom from Zonula occludens toxin (ZOT) 
and Accessory cholera enterotoxin (ACE). Although no studies to verify this have been submitted, it is 
well known according to literature that strains deleted in the ZOT gene were more reactive compared 
with  other  strains  containing  the  gene.  Long  experience  of  safe  use  exists  for  this  vaccine  and  it  is 
deemed that no further information on this is needed. 
The  mouse  weight-gain  assay,  as  applied  by  the  applicant  in  the  testing  of  the  cholera  whole  cell 
bulks, is aimed at indicating general toxicity as extra precaution in addition to the abnormal toxicity 
test according to PhEur. This is due to the lack of a meaningful animal model for toxicity testing of 
oral killed whole  cell cholera  vaccine. The assay has however not been validated for the purpose of 
detecting  residual  cholera  toxin  in  the  routine  testing  of  the  bulks  or  at  the  finished  product  stage 
which  is  required  according  to  the  WHO  requirements.  Therefore,  the  applicant  has  agreed  to 
introduce  a  properly validated GM1 ELISA for routine testing  of  bulks for the detection of residual 
cholera  toxin.  This  introduction  may  make  the  mouse  weight  gain  test  superfluous,  however, 
elimination of the test should be handled as a variation. 
The characterisation of rCTB is not as extensive as one normally sees for recombinant products. It can 
be noted that there are no data from sequencing of the entire protein, only N and C-terminal sequences 
have been analysed. The protein carries one disulfide bridge and the correctness of the S-S bridge has 
not been shown as such by peptide mapping or by other methods. Methods to verify 2°structure like 
CD have not been used. On the other hand, powerful methods like MS have been used to determine 
the molecular weight and functional tests (GM1 binding, binding to monoclonal antibodies) have been 
performed. The DNA sequence has been confirmed and it is deemed unlikely that a protein emanating 
from  the  correct  DNA  sequence,  with  the  molecular  weight  expected  from  the  N-  and  C-terminal 
analyses  and  reacting  comparably  with  native  CTB  in  functional  assays  would  differ  from  the 
expected structure.  
9/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Normally, SDS-PAGE data using a more sensitive staining such as silver staining would be requested. 
However, due to the fact that the rCTB is mixed with crude whole cell bulks, the absolute absence of 
contaminating,  non-CTB  proteins,  which  could  be  detected  by  silver  staining,  is  of  less  importance. 
What is of importance is the integrity of the rCTB and this is better seen in the western blot analysis 
performed.  
It should be noted that it is not possible to quantify the respective amount of Ogawa and Inaba LPS 
due to the lack of appropriate methods. Therefore, it is not possible to ensure that the proportions of 
Ogawa  and  Inaba  LPS  in  the  vaccine  are  correct.  Notably,  even  if  methods  for  quantifying  the 
respective LPS were available, it would still not be possible to differentiate between LPS from heat- 
and formalin-inactivated bacteria, nor would it be possible to differentiate between LPS from classical 
and  El  Tor  biotype.  So,  even  if  methods  were  available  to  measure  Ogawa  and  Inaba  O1  LPS 
separately,  the  designed  content  of  the  vaccine  could  still  not  be  verified.  In  practice,  however, 
working according to GMP guarantees the correctness of the composition of the vaccine.  
In  the  same  way,  it  is  only  possible  to  express  the  amount  of  bacteria  in  the  final  vaccine  as  the 
amount prior to inactivation. Although this is not optimal, it is the only other choice is to give the sum 
LPS content where it is not possible to differ between the contributions from each strain. Therefore, 
the current way of expression is deemed acceptable. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Introduction 
The  pre-clinical  part  of  the  application  for  Dukoral  is  composed  of  bibliographical  references  and 
studies carried out by the applicant. The content of the application has been assessed in line with the 
Annex I to Directive 2001/83 and the Note for Guidance on preclinical and toxicological testing for 
vaccines, the available literature data and the existing long-term clinical experience. 
Pharmacology 
The  active  components  of  the  vaccine  are  recombinant  cholera  toxin  subunit  B  (in  1992  production 
was  changed  to  recombinant  CTB;  rCTB)  and  whole,  heat-inactivated  or  formalin-inactivated, 
bacterial organisms. The B subunit (CTB) is the binding portion of the cholera toxin and is non-toxic 
by itself. The cellular receptor for CTB is GM-1 ganglioside, which is expressed on most mammalian 
intestinal  cells.    Antibodies  against  the  toxin  can  prevent  diarrhoeal  disease  that  would  otherwise 
follow.  These  antibodies  are  mostly  directed  against  the  B  subunit  but  by  combining  the  B  subunit 
with inactivated  whole cells of the bacteria the synergistic action  of IgA antibodies against both the 
toxin and the cells can be obtained locally in the gut (Svennerholm AM and Holmgren J Infect Immun 
1976. 13:735-40). 
The recombinant CTB differs from native CTB in that the former contains up to 7 extra amino acids at 
the  N-terminal.  This  has  no  effect  on  binding  to  the  GM-1  receptor  or  to  monoclonal  antibodies  as 
demonstrated in studies performed by the applicant.  
There  is  no  valid  animal  model  to  predict  the  mucosal  immune  response  to  the  cholera  vaccine 
(Richardsson SH in Vibrio Cholerae and Cholerae Molecular to global perspective. 1994.Chapter 14 
American  Society  for  Microbiology)  this  is  because  V.  cholerae is a strictly  human pathogen  which 
excludes  relevant  animal  challenge  models.  Further,  killed  Gram-negative  bacteria  are  not 
immunogenic  by  the  oral  route  in  animals  (not  even  in  monkeys).  However,  some  animal  studies, 
especially  of  the  mechanism  of  immune  response  and  protection  regarding  the  antitoxin  immunity, 
have been conducted. Literature data indicate that most antibodies induced by immunisation with CT 
(cholera holotoxin)  are directed against  the atoxic B subunit (CTB) (Lange S and Holmgren J. Acta 
Path Mcrobiol Scan Sect C 1978, 86:145-152), and consequently the subunit cholera toxoid consisting 
of  the  purified  CTB  has  been  prepared  in  order  to  eliminate  the  risk  of  toxicity    (Holmgren  et  al 
10/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nature;  1977:  269:602-04,  ).  However,  as  mentioned  above  CTB  gives  a  poor  mucosal  antitoxin 
antibody  response  in  mice  after  oral  immunisation  (Lycke  et  al.  In  Arch  Allergy  Appl  Immunol 
1989;88:273-79). This is thus in contrast to what has been found in humans.   
Moreover, in the final draft of the WHO Guidelines for the Production & Control of Inactivated Oral 
Cholera  Vaccines  (WHO  Techn  Rep  Ser.  www.who.int/biologicals/Index/Cholera.htm)  it  is  stated 
that:  "At  present  no  animal  potency  or  immunogenicity  assay  can  be  recommended  that  can 
meaningfully  be  used  as  a  reliable  indicator  of  the  protective  efficacy  of  inactivated  oral  cholera 
vaccines in humans nor be able to detect sub-potent batches". 
The  NfG  (CPMP/SWP465/05)  states  that  the  pharmacodynamic  studies  “should  be  carried  out”  or 
“considered”  in  “appropriate  animal  models”.  However,  due  to  the  lack  of  an  appropriate  animal 
model,  the  pharmacological  part  does  not  comprehensively  describe  the  different  aspects  normally 
required for this part of the dossier. 
Concerning  safety  pharmacology    (“potentially  undesirable  pharmacodynamic  effects”)  that  is 
mentioned in the NfG it is stated that this should be considered for new vaccines. In the present case 
the issue has to rely on the considerable clinical experience. 
Pharmacokinetics 
In  the  relevant  CPMP  guideline  (CPMP/SWP465/05)  it  is  clear  that  pharmacokinetic  studies  are 
“normally not  needed”.  This  should be especially  true for  Dukoral, since the vaccine is taken orally 
and  the  components  of  the  vaccine  are  not  systemically  absorbed  from  the  intestine.  One  of  the 
important physiological functions of the epithelium is to prevent bacteria from entering the underlying 
tissue  and  there  are  several  theoretical  reasons  for  not  performing  studies  on  kinetics.  Some 
publications  in  the  literature  adequately  discuss  matters  related  to  receptor  binding  capacity  of 
proteins, and the specifics of antibody response after oral exposure vs parenteral (Aizpurua HJ, Rusel 
Jones GJ. J Exp Med 167; 440-51; Owen RL et al, J Inf Dis 53:1108-18, 1986; Quiding et al J Clin 
Invest 88:143-8, 1991).  
Toxicology  
• 
Single dose toxicity 
Due to the lack of relevant animal models an extensive evaluation of the preclinical toxicity profile of 
this vaccine has not been conducted.  
Considering the individual active components of the vaccine, rCTB (a protein of 102 amino acids) and 
killed whole cell bacteria, the species/tissue specificity suggest that standard toxicity tests would not 
be relevant. Oral intake of killed bacteria and protein is unlikely to cause any toxicity. It can be argued 
that  due  to  the  similarities  that  exist  between  common  Gram-negative  gut  flora  and  killed  cholera 
bacteria,  specific  toxic  effects  are  not  likely/can  be  excluded  from  occurring.  Also,  from  the 
publication  by  Holmgren  et  al  1977  (mentioned  above)  it  is  clear  that  the  properties  of  the  subunit 
CTB in the vaccine are such that reversion to toxicity is prevented. This was demonstrated in rabbits 
that were administered 10 microgram of the subunit toxoid subcutaneously.  
The active ingredients in the vaccine are thus unlikely to exhibit any inherent toxicity, but studies may 
also  be  of  interest  from  the  "quality"  point  of  view,  i.e.  to  test  for  potential  toxicity  of  residues, 
impurities  or  any  decomposition  products.  Animal  data  relating  to  the  quality  of  the  vaccine  are 
available. These "abnormal toxicity tests" were conducted after intraperitoneal administration in mice 
and  guinea  pigs  in  compliance  with  the  requirements  described  in  the  European  Pharmacopoeia  (Ph 
Eur  2.6.9,1997)  and  included  clinical  observations  and  gross  pathology  with  up  to  10  days 
observational periods. The intraperitoneal route is more likely to result in systemic absorption than the 
oral administration route.  Forty-six vaccine batches have been tested since 1993 and have passed the 
test.  Similar  tests  were  performed  in  rabbits  (102  cholera  bulks  and  160  vaccines).  Non-toxicity  of 
Dukoral was reported.     
11/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CPMP/SWP/465/95 guideline on vaccines states that: “Single dose toxicity data from at least one 
species  should  be  available”.  The  particular  nature  of  the  Dukoral  vaccine  implies  that  standard 
toxicity tests would not be relevant as outlined above. Further, although not including histopathology 
data,  “abnormal  toxicity”  testing  and  studies  on  immunogenicity  and  protection  that  indicate  no 
adverse clinical reactions, no adverse gross pathology or effects on normal weight gain, are consistent 
with  the  non-toxicity  of  the  vaccine.  Additionally,  in  studies  in  man  (Castello-Branco  et  al  Vaccine 
12:65-72, 1994; Clemens JD et al J Inf Dis 154:175-8 1986; Clemes JD et al Lancet 335:270-3, 1990), 
safety was actively studied as adverse events after a single dose of vaccine.      
• 
Repeated dose toxicity  
A study on repeated dose toxicity aimed at identifying target organs of toxicity is normally required as 
per the relevant NfG. There is a problem of lacking relevant animal models for preclinical studies with 
this vaccine more generally. Importantly though, extensive clinical experience indicates that additional 
animal  studies  would  not  contribute  to  the  further  understanding  of  the  product’s  mode  of action or 
safety profile. 
In  addition,  immunological  aspects  of  toxicity  should  be  considered  on  a case-by  -case  basis. There 
have  been  no  reports  on  auto-immunity  being  induced  by  V.  cholerae  (Medline  search  and  clinical 
experience). As the cholera antigens in the vaccine do not include CT, the killed cells are not expected 
to behave differently from the common Gram-negative flora present in the intestine. Hypersensitivity 
is  rather  specific  for  the  animal  species  and  it  was  not  detected  in  clinical  trials  analysed  to  date. 
Further,    it  should  be  noted  that  the  cholera  toxin  B  subunit  is  used  in  animal  models  to  induce 
immunologic  tolerance.  Examples  of  such  models  are  allergic  encephalomyelitis,  autoimmune 
diabetes and collagen-induced arthritis. This experience is summarised in a review by Holmgren et al 
(Holmgren et al Expert Rev Vaccines 2:205-17, 2003).  This implies that CTB is not a potent inducer 
of hypersensitivity, but rather the opposite.  
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo and Carcinogenecity 
Genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies are normally not requested for vaccines. This is in line with 
the  CPMP  guideline  (CPMP/SWP465/05).  Formaldehyde,  used  in  inactivation  of  bacteria,  is 
carcinogenic at high doses; however, the residual amount of formalin in Dukoral is far below the level 
of risk and in compliance with the Ph. Eur. Requirements (≤ 0.2 g/L = 6.7 mM). 
• 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
It can be argued that given that the vaccine components are not absorbed, no effects on reproductive 
functions  or  embryos  of  pregnant  women  are  expected.  Based  on  literature/epidemiological  data  in 
pregnant  women,  (Freda,  V  Am  J  Obst  Gynec  71:  1134  –36,  1956),  cholera  infection  has  not  been 
described to affect the reproductive function or malformations of embryos, nor has any such possible 
relationship  been  reported  or  even  suspected  after  vaccination  with  Dukoral  or  any  other  cholera 
vaccine.  More  than  1000,000  doses  have  been  sold  in  Scandinavia  and  there  are  no  ADR  reports 
related to pregnancy or post partum conditions.  
Part  of  the  female  population  living  in  cholera  endemic  countries  is  likely  to  become  infected  with 
cholera when pregnant. Furthermore, in clinical studies conducted before the vaccine was registered, 
women  were  for  research  ethical  reasons  asked  not  to  participate  in  the  study  if  they  would  be 
pregnant during the study period. It could be assumed that an unknown number of pregnant women 
came  to  be  included.  Although  an  individual  follow-up  of  these  women  was  not  done  on  a  regular 
basis, there were no reports of pregnancy related complications or complications in the newborns that 
were linked to the intake of the vaccine. 
Dukoral  has  been  given  to  a  large  number  of  breast-feeding  women  in  different  studies,  and  no 
adverse events in relation to breast-feeding have been reported (Holmgren et al. Expert Rev Vaccines 
2:205-17, 2003; Hirchhorn N. et al Lancet, 1: 1230-2, 1969). 
12/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  relevant  CPMP  guideline  states:  “embryo/fetal  and  perinatal  toxicity  are  usually  not  necessary. 
Only  if  a  vaccine  is  intended  for  use  in  women  of  child-bearing  age  or  during  pregnancy  may  such 
studies become necessary”.  
Theoretical  considerations  are  in  line  with  that  the  product  is  unlikely  to  have  any  effects  during 
pregnancy  and  pregnant  women  have  been  exposed  to  the  vaccine.  Furthermore,  considering  the 
inherent characteristics and properties of the product the relevance of preclinical data is questioned. It 
is clear that these aspects, as well as the overall safety of the vaccine, have to be judged on clinical 
data,  alone.  Cholera  infection  per  se  does  not seem to adversely affect reproduction and  this can be 
expected to be true for the components of the vaccine as well. 
• 
Local tolerance  
This being an oral vaccine, the only/most relevant way to assess toxicity is by administering it orally. 
As in the case with normal non-pathogenic live or dead bacteria, healthy animals are not expected to 
absorb the inactivated cholera bacteria or to respond immunologically. Also rCTB has been described 
as not being absorbed after oral administration. It reacts with the GM1-receptor of the epithelial cells 
in the intestine but remains locally.  
In  view  of  this  and  the  vast  experience  of  the  vaccine  in  humans,  studies  of  local  gastrointestinal 
tolerance in animals are not warranted. 
Environmental Risk Assessment 
Considering  the  nature  of  the  product  (killed  bacteria,  no  preservatives  etc.)  and  the  way  it  is 
manufactured, one does not expect any risks for the environment. Indeed, the two production sites of 
SBL  Vaccin  AB  in  Sweden,  do  fulfil  the  requirements  from  the  Swedish  local  authorities  for 
environment control.   
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The  applicant  has  discussed  the  extent  of  testing  in  relation  to  applicable  guidelines  and  overall 
provided  acceptable  justification  for  not  conducting  preclinical  studies.  A  summary  report  indicates 
that no regular GLP studies on the pharmacology and toxicology of the vaccine have been conducted. 
Since  this  concerns  V.  Cholerae,  a  strictly  human  pathogen,  and  a  killed  whole-cell  vaccine,  to  be 
administered orally, the relevance of animal pharmacology studies is questioned. The natural disease 
apparently  cannot  be  reproduced  in  adult  animals  and  responses  to  CT  and  CTB  differ  between 
humans  and  animals.  Specifically,  CTB  is  not  an  effective  oral  immunogen  in  mice,  but  is  so  in 
humans.  Overall,  the  mode  of  action  is  fairly  well  understood  and  efficacy  has  been  shown  in  the 
clinic. 
Concerning  potential  for  toxicity,  the  individual  active  constituents  of  the  vaccine;  a  protein  of  102 
amino  acids  and  killed  whole  cell  bacteria,  imply  that  standard  animal  toxicity  tests  would  not  be 
meaningful. Further, there are studies dealing with immunogenicity and protection that are consistent 
with the non-toxicity of the vaccine. A study on repeated dose toxicity aimed to identify target organs 
of  toxicity  is  normally  required.  However,  inherent  characteristics  of  the  vaccine  and  the  extensive 
clinical experience available indicate that additional animal studies would not contribute to a further 
understanding  of  the  product’s  mode  of  action  and  safety  profile.    The  cholera  vaccine  has  been 
available  in  Sweden  since  1991  and  over  1,000,000  doses  have  been  distributed  in  Scandinavia  to 
date.  The  clinical  safety  data  include  data  from  about  7,000  children,  mostly  from  clinical  trials  in 
non-European countries. The adverse events reported include gastrointestinal reactions, likely due to 
the buffer used, fever, headache, dizziness and skin reactions. The vaccine is also intended for women 
of  child-bearing  potential.  Theoretical  considerations  are  in  line  with  that  the  product  is  unlikely  to 
have  any  effects  during  pregnancy  and  pregnant  women  have  been  exposed  to  the  vaccine. 
Genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies are not required for this type of product. An "Environmental 
risk assessment" is available and no risk is expected. 
13/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preclinical aspects in relation to the ETEC indication are not specifically discussed in the marketing 
authorisation application. References to the published literature (REFS) indicate that the enterotoxin of 
Escherichia coli has similar immunomodulatory properties as cholera toxin 
Dukoral  containing  the  B-subunit  of  cholera  toxin  (CTB)  has  been  on  the  market  in  Sweden  since 
1991  and  since  1992  containing  the  recombinant  B-subunit  (rCTB).  The  recombinant  CTB  differs 
from native CTB in that the former contains up to 7 extra amino acids at the N-terminal.  This has no 
effect  on  binding  to  the  GM-1  receptor  or  to  monoclonal  antibodies.  During  purification  of  rCTB, 
hexametaphosphate and the anti-foam Adekanol LG-109 are used during fermentation, the former is 
accepted as a food additive and levels of the Adekanol are below detection levels. 
There are acceptable justifications for not carrying out comprehensive non-clinical investigations for 
this  vaccine.  Some  of  these  justififications  are  also  sufficiently  supported  by  the  relevant  CPMP 
guideline on preclinical pharmacological and toxicological testing of vaccines (CPMP/SWP/465/05).  
From a scientific point of view, as discussed above, the paucity of preclinical studies to characterise 
the pharmaco/toxicological profile of Dukoral is not considered a cause for concern. 
Overall,  based  on  the  particular  characteristics  of  the  vaccine  and  the  clinical  experience  to  date, 
additional preclinical studies are not warranted. The text in SPC sections 4.6 and 5.3 is appropriate and 
accurately reflects the lack of non-clinical data. Efficacy and the overall safety of the vaccine should 
be judged on clinical data. 
In addition recital 10, of Annex I of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended states: “ However, there are 
reasons of public policy for not conducting repetitive tests on humans or animals without over-riding 
cause”.  Reference  is  also  made  to  Council  Directive  86/609/EEC  of  24  November  1986  on  the 
approximation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States regarding the 
protection  of  animals  used  for  experimental  and  other  scientific  purposes,  and  Council  Decision 
1999/575/EC  of  23  March  1998  concerning  the  conclusion  by  the  Community  of  the  European 
Convention  for  the  protection  of  vertebrate  animals  used  for  experimental  and  other  scientific 
purposes.  
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  clinical  part  of  the  application  is  composed  of  studies  carried  out  by  the  applicant  and  of 
bibliographical  references.  Many  of  those  studies  were  conducted  without  the  sponsorship  of  the 
company.  For  study  6,  the  Bangladesh  efficacy  study,  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO),  the 
United  States  Agency  for  International  Development  (USAID),  the  Government  of  Japan  and  the 
Swedish  Agency  for  Research  Cooperation  with  Developing  Countries  (SAREC)  provided  financial 
support for the study. The Control of Diarrheal Disease Programme of the WHO monitored the study. 
The  US  Army  performed  study  27,  the  cholera  efficacy  study  in  Peruvian  military  personnel.  The 
study  was  monitored  by  the  USAMMDA’s  (US  Army  Medical  Material  Development  Activity) 
quality assurance group. 
The  applicant  has  undertaken  a  reanalysis  of  data  and  produced  clinical  study  reports  for  the  key 
efficacy  studies  (Studies  6,  9  and  27).  Other  studies  in  this  report  were  identified  from  literature 
searches and were investigator driven rather than sponsored by the applicant. Not all studies have been 
fully reported. The majority of the studies have been published in high-impact peer-reviewed scientific 
journals and have been reviewed for the submission document. For all studies, the sponsors followed 
local requirements with regard to approval by ethics committees and regulatory authorities. Since the 
studies  were  performed  before  the  ICH  guideline  came  into  operation,  they  did  not  conform  to  the 
current ICH guideline on GCP. 
Altogether 48 referenced clinical studies were submitted (see further “table of all clinical trials with 
Dukoral”), including 19 phase I (n=705), 20 phase II (n=4,951), 8 phase III trials (n=221,146) and in 
addition,  one  feasibility  study  (n=27,607).  There  were  19  placebo-controlled  studies  and  29  open 
14/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
trials.  Five  unpublished  studies  were  only  provided  as  summaries.  Three  efficacy  studies  including 
84,462 individuals were not successful and, thus, 136,664 study subjects were assessed in completed 
phase III efficacy trials. The clinical trial programme has run during the period of 1980 to 1997. The 
study populations include those from endemic and non-endemic regions, and also special populations 
such as children >2 years of age, HIV-infected individuals, patients with ulcerative colitis and those 
with IgA deficiency. A total of 25 clinical studies involved European subjects, whereof the majority 
was small Phase I and II trials assessing the immunogenicity and the safety of the vaccine.  
Studies  11  and  15-48  (see  table  of  all  clinical  trials  with  Dukoral)  have  been  carried  out  with  the 
recombinant vaccin.  
Immunogenicity  of  the  cholera  vaccine  was  investigated  in  clinical  studies  and  in  several  academic 
trials. Systemic and local intestinal immune responses to the vaccine were assessed as well as antibody 
responses  in  saliva,  faecal  samples  and  breast  milk.  Antibody  responses  of  IgG  and  IgA  classes  to 
cholera  toxin  subunit  B  (anti-CTB)  and  to  bacterial  antigens,  lipopolysaccharide  (anti-LPS),  and 
vibriocidal  antibodies  were  measured.  Antibody  secreting  cells  (ASC)  in  blood  and  intestinal  fluids 
were also measured. The immunogenicity studies aimed to establish vaccination schedules and booster 
intervals, and to evaluate a protective correlate and immunological memory.  
As  discussed  in  the  non-clinical  part  there  is  no  reason  to  require  pharmacokinetic  studies  with  this 
oral killed vaccine.    
The efficacy of Dukoral against cholera was investigated in 3 randomised placebo-controlled studies 
(table  1).  The  cholera  studies  involved  a  total  of  113,083  subjects  of  whom  30,812  received  the 
assigned  number  of  Dukoral  (WC/BS  vaccine)  doses.  A  total  of  13,760  children  aged  2  to  5  years 
were  recruited  of  whom  4,919  received  the  assigned  number  of  WC/BS  vaccine  doses.  The  study 
populations  for  cholera  included  those  from  endemic  areas  (Bangladesh)  and  those  from  epidemic 
regions (Peru). Thus, for the cholera indication no formal efficacy studies have been performed, in the 
target group, i.e.  naive travellers.  
Table 1 
Study 
location 
(Number) 
Bangladesh 
(Study 6) 
Peru, 
military 
(Study 27) 
Pampas 
(Study 30) 
Summary of study design of key efficacy studies 
Year  Dosage regimen  
Number  
(Age groups) 
Follow up 
Cholera 
1985-
88 
1994 
3 doses at 6 week intervals 
2 doses 7-11 days apart 
89,152 
(2-65 years) 
1,563 
(18-65 years) 
6 months-5 years 
5 months 
1993-
95 
2 doses 2 weeks apart with a booster dose 
1 year later 
21,924 
(2-65 years) 
2 years 
The whole-cell vaccine (WC/BS) originally contained cholera toxin B subunit  (CTB) purified from 
cholera toxin produced by a wild-type strain. This  vaccine, containing the native form of CTB, was 
used  in  the  Bangladesh  field  efficacy  trial  (study  6)  and  in  the  Morocco  trial  (study  9).  In  1991 
production was switched to a recombinant form rCTB. The vaccine (WC/rBS) containing rCTB was 
used in the Peru military trial (study 27) and in the Pampas field trial (study 30). 
15/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunogenicity/vaccination schedules 
Dose determination/vaccine composition 
No formal dose determination studies were performed. The dose of CTB, 1mg, was determined on the 
basis  of  one  early  study  in  Bangladeshi  volunteers,  in  whom  immune  responses  to  clinical  cholera 
were compared with those after different oral doses of CTB (0.5 mg and 2.5 mg) plus WC. The native 
CTB was demonstrated to induce similar immune responses as rCTB (studies 11 and 17 and Sanchez J 
and  Holmgren  J.  Proc  Natl  Acad  Sci  USA  86:481-5,  1989).  A  sodium  bicarbonate  buffer  in  full 
strength  was  shown  to  be  necessary  for  protection  of  the  acid  labile  CTB  component  and  to  retain 
immunogenicity  of  the  vaccine,  despite  causing  some  gastrointestinal  symptoms.  The  total  bacterial 
content was increased to a total amount of 1x1011 vibrios/vaccine dose by adding an El Tor strain and 
a formalin inactivation procedure was introduced, due to the poor antibacterial responses achieved in 
non-immune  individuals  (Study  3).  Since  the  protective  efficacy  (PE)  of  Dukoral  in  study  6  was 
deemed  acceptable,  no  further  change  in  the  vaccine  composition  was  made  during  the  clinical 
development programme. It was discussed whether the present bacterial content by cholera biotype is 
optimal,  since only one-fourth  of the whole  cells constitute El Tor strains, globally the predominant 
biotype.  According  to  the  Company  the  most  important  determinant  of  PE  is  the  LPS  component, 
which  is  common  for  the  Classical  and  El  Tor  strains,  but  different  for  the  serotypes.  Therefore  the 
most important goal is to obtain an even distribution of the Inaba and Ogawa serotypes, which prevails 
in  the  present  vaccine.  Since  the  vaccine  has  proven  satisfactorily  efficacious  against  both  Classical 
and El Tor cholera (study 6 and 27), this issue was considered resolved. 
Immunogenicity 
The vaccine was demonstrated to be immunogenic in both children and adults and in individuals from 
endemic as well as non-endemic areas. A limited number of elderly subjects >65 years were included 
in  the  clinical  trial  programme,  serological  responses  were  consistent  with  those  of  younger 
individuals..  In  the  smaller  trials  significant  antitoxin  and  antibacterial  antibody  responses  were 
documented in serum, intestinal lavage fluid and other secretions, but the magnitude of antibacterial 
antibody responses in the serum and antitoxin antibody responses in the intestine were lower in non-
primed  individuals.  In  the  larger  serological  studies,  serum  IgG  and  IgA  antitoxin  responses  were 
induced  in  70-90%  of  the  vaccines.  In  contrast,  very  modest  serum  antibacterial  antibody  responses 
(17-45%)  were  noted  both  in  endemic  and  non-endemic  populations.  The  vibriocidal  antibody 
responses were even more reduced in children and in individuals with high baseline titres. The poor 
vibriocidal response elicited by the WC/rBS vaccine raised some concern, since vibriocidal antibodies 
have  been  considered  as  reliable  surrogate  markers  of  protection  against  cholera.  However,  the  data 
from  the  Bangladesh  field  trial  indicated  that  despite  low  antibacterial  titer  levels  a  significant 
protective  vaccine  efficacy  against  cholera  was  obtained.  In  this  field  trial,  significant  antitoxin  IgG 
responses  (>2-fold  increase)  were  observed  in  73%  of  subjects,  whereas  few  (17-21%)  exhibited 
significant (>4-fold) vibriocidal antibody responses. Due to the limited number of cholera cases in the 
Bangladeshi  subjects  with  serological  samples  collected,  it  was  not  possible  to  investigate  any 
correlation  between  antibody  levels  and  protection  against  cholera.  In  a  separate  sub-study  no 
correlation  was  found  between  serological  markers  and  vaccine  efficacy.  It  was  concluded  that 
vaccine-induced  mucosal  immunity  might  be  dissociated  from  vaccine-induced  serological  titres.  In 
response  to  the  issues  raised  over  the  poor  vibriocidal  response,  it  was  clarified  that  the  vibriocidal 
responses do not correlate directly to protective immunity after oral or parenteral vaccination, nor is 
there a direct correlation between vibriocidal response and clinical outcome of infection. Vibriocidal 
antibody levels in an endemic population increase with age, but cannot be used to diagnose infection 
or  predict  the  immune  status  of  an  individual.  In  conclusion,  vibriocidal  antibody  response  in 
immunized subjects could be used as a surrogate marker of vaccination, but is not a good predictor of 
protective efficacy. 
16/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vaccination schedules 
Primary immunisation schedule 
• 
No  study  was  designed  to  specifically  determine  the  optimal  number  of  doses  for  primary 
immunisation.  The  recommended  2-dose  schedule  in  adults  and  3-dose  schedule  in  children  in  the 
cholera indication were mainly based on efficacy results obtained in the Bangladesh field trial (Study 
6),  but  were  also  supported  by  immunogenicity  data  in  primed  and  non-primed  populations.  Dose 
intervals  of  at  least  one  week  to  6  weeks  were  selected  based  on  2  immunogenicity  trials  (one  in 
children)  and  were  supported  by  efficacy  results.  However,  no  data  were  submitted  to  justify  the 
recommendation to restart the primary vaccination course if more than 6 weeks have elapsed between 
doses. The peak serum, intestinal antibody responses and ASC responses following vaccination were 
seen after on average 7 days. The early kinetics of the antibody response supports the recommendation 
for travelers to complete dosing at least 1 week before departure. 
For  cholera,  immunogenicity  data  showed  that  2  and  3  doses  were  as  efficient  in  inducing  both 
primary  and  memory  antitoxin/antibacterial  serum  responses  in  naive  adult  volunteers.  From  an 
efficacy  point  of  view,  the  2-dose  schedule  in  adults  is  satisfactorily  documented  primarily  in  an 
endemic  Bangladeshi  population.  Data  on  the  serum  antibody  responses  in  non-primed  populations 
support the same schedule. No study of vaccine protection against cholera has been performed in the 
target  population,  i.e.  non-immune  EU  travellers.  The  potential  comparability  between  younger 
children in Bangladesh and healthy EU adults was discussed, but was not considered appropriate due 
to that several endemic factors, such as differences in nutritional status and gut flora, could affect the 
immune  response  to  vaccination.  Although  no  serological  data  were  collected  in  the  Peru  military 
study,  the  high  attack  rate  of  cholera  suggested  that  the  recruits  were  non-immune,  and  thus  would 
constitute a population most resembling that of naïve travellers. The PE of the vaccine in this trial was 
85%.  It  was  also  discussed  whether  pre-exposure  to  LT-ETEC  could  afford  some  cross-immunity 
against cholera in the Peruvian population. However, no differences in anti-toxic antibody responses 
to  CTB  in  serum  or  intestine  could  be  demonstrated  between  study  populations  from  endemic  and 
non-endemic  countries.  The  data  did  not  indicate  that  previous  exposure  to  ETEC  and  possible 
immune  memory  against  LT  prior  to  immunisation  would  enhance  vaccine  responses.  Therefore,  it 
was  considered  that  efficacy  data  could  be  used  to  bridge  from  Bangladesh  and  Peru  to  a  naive 
population of EU travelers. 
The efficacy results obtained in Pampas field trial (Study 30) suggest that a 3-dose primary regimen 
may be needed for protection against El Tor cholera in a non/semi-primed population. However, the 
administrative problems (se below) associated with Study 30 make these results less reliable. 
In Bangladeshi children (2-5 years) it was shown that the proportion of vaccine recipients exhibiting 
significant rise of antibody titres increased after each successive dose up to the 3rd dose supporting the 
use of a 3-dose regimen. Protective vaccine efficacy in children has only been documented for the 3-
dose schedule. 
Booster dose  
• 
The  recommendation  of  the  timepoint  for  a  booster  dose  of  WC/rBS  vaccine  was  based  upon 
immunological  correlates  and  data  on  duration  of  protection.  Booster  doses  after  10-12  months 
following  primary  immunisation  with  2  doses  two  weeks  apart  in  Swedish  and  Latin  American 
subjects  were  demonstrated  to  elicit  anamnestic  antitoxin  and  vibriocidal  antibody  responses. 
However, an elevated vibriocidal antibody titre at baseline resulted in a diminished booster response. 
In  a  small  trial  it  was  also  shown  that  a  booster  dose  administered  after  5  months  resulted  in 
anamnestic antitoxin antibody and ASC responses locally in the intestine, suggesting the existence of a 
local  immunological  memory.  A  systemic  immune  memory  was  demonstrated  for  up  to  5  years  in 
subjects living in a non-endemic area. Data also indicated the existence of long-lived memory cells in 
the peripheral blood.  
The duration of elevated antibody titres varied, serum vibriocidal antibody titres decreased gradually 
to baseline levels within 4-12 months, whereas antitoxin antibody titres remained elevated for longer 
periods (1 year up to 5 years). Despite the fact that antibody titres disappeared, sustained protection 
against cholera was demonstrated for 2 years in adults and for 6 months in children in the Bangladesh 
field trial. It should be remembered that these results were obtained in an endemic population where 
17/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
natural boosters of cholera occur. The reason for the short-term protection in children is not known. In 
addition,  protective  efficacy  differed  by  biotype,  being  inferior  against  El  Tor  cholera,  which 
predominates on a global base.  
The proposed recommendation to boost with one dose within 2 years after vaccination and to re-start a 
primary immunisation course if more than 2 years have elapsed is considered reasonable. 
The  recommendation  for  children  of  a  booster  dose  after  6  months  to  maintain  immunity  against 
cholera is supported by the Bangladesh trial and is considered acceptable 
Protective efficacy against cholera after booster vaccination has not been studied, which is mentioned 
in the SmPC. 
Clinical efficacy  
Main clinical studies 
Efficacy in cholera 
• 
The  efficacy  of  the  vaccine  against  cholera  was  assessed  in  3  randomised  placebo-controlled  trials, 
Bangladesh field trial (Study 6), Peru military trial (Study 27) and Pampas field trial (Study 30).  
In  Study  6,  the  major  cholera  trial,  89,152  Bangladeshi  individuals  were  included,  of  whom  63,498 
received  3  complete  doses  given  at  6  weeks  intervals.  Efficacy  was  followed  up  for  5  years.  Both 
whole-cells  (WC)  and  WC  in  combination  with  the  native  cholera  toxin  subunit  B  (WC/BS)  were 
examined.  Overall  protective  efficacy  of  the  WC/BS  vaccine  in  the  primary  population  was  85% 
(95%CI 56,95) for the initial 6 months, regardless of age and severity of cholera. The BS component 
augmented  efficacy  during  the  initial  8  months,  thereafter  PE  was  similar  for  the  WC/BS  and  WC 
vaccines During the first and second year protection was sustained in adults, but in the third year the 
efficacy was considered suboptimal (see table). Long-term protection differed notably by age and by 
biotype  of the infecting agent, lasting  for only 6 months in children and being superior for classical 
versus  El  Tor  cholera.  Sustained  protection  against  classical  cholera  occurred  also  in  children.  An 
exploratory analysis suggested that 2 vaccine doses seemed as effective as 3 doses.  
Table;  Summary  of  vaccine  efficacy  in  the  Bangladesh  field  trial  (study  6)  against  cholera  after  3 
doses (PP) in all subjects and children <6 years 
                       WC/BS vaccine 
                            n=21 141 
Cholera cases 
                        WC vaccine 
                           n=21 137 
     Placebo 
     n=21 220 
PE% (95%CI)  Cholera cases 
PE% (95%CI)  Cholera cases 
4 
47 
40 
41 
85  (56, 95) 
p=0.001 
64  (50, 74) 
p<0.001 
52 (30, 67) 
p<0.001) 
19 (-22, 46) 
p=0.3 
11 
58 
38 
30 
58  (14, 79) 
p=0.017 
56  (39,67) 
p<0.001 
55 (33, 69) 
p<0.001 
41 (7, 62) 
p=0.022 
26 
131 
84 
51 
Time after vaccination 
Adults >6 years 
6 months 
Year 1 
Year 2 
Year 3 
Children <6 years 
6 months 
Year 1 
                          n=3 721 
0 
27 
100 
44 (10,65) 
p=0.016) 
33 (-23, 64) 
n.s. 
<0 
23 
16 
                             n=3 871 
6 
32 
35 (-84, 77) 
36 (0,59) 
p=0.049 
         n=3800 
9 
49 
26 
13 (-71,55) n.s.  18 
Year 2 
Year 3 
17 
23 
It  can  be  concluded  that  the  WC/BS  vaccine,  in  this  well-conducted  field  trial in a cholera endemic 
area, conferred significant protection against cholera during the first 6 months and, in adults, moderate 
protection (~60%) for 2 years follow-up. Potential determining factors for the biotype- and age-related 
differences in the protective efficacy of the vaccine need to be further discussed. 
18/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Study 27, enrolling 1,331 military recruits, the recombinant form of B subunit (WC/rBS) and a 2-
dose  schedule  was  used.  Short-term  PE  of  85%  (95%CI  38,  97)  against  El  Tor  cholera  in  this  non-
primed population was noted for the 5 months of follow-up.  
While  in  these  two  key  trials  efficacy  of  WC/BS  (Study  6)  and  WC/rBS  (Study  27)  could  be 
demonstrated, the third big field trial (Study 30) failed to show efficacy during the 1st year. This trial 
involved  21,924  Peruvian  volunteers  given  the  WC/rBS  in  2  doses  two  weeks  apart  followed  by  a 
booster  dose  after  10-12  months  and  with  a  total  follow-up  of  2  years.  During  the  first  year  no 
protection was demonstrated, whereas for the second year, after the booster dose, 60.5% PE (95%CI 
28,79)  was  achieved.  The  potential  reasons  for  the  unexpected  lack  of  PE  during  the  first  year, 
included administrative errors and the use of active surveillance identifying also mild cases of cholera. 
Supportive study(ies) 
An  early  challenge  study  that  used  a  preliminary  vaccine  not  identical  to  the  present  composition 
provided proof of concept for the vaccine including whole-cells +/- BS. In this study, using WC+BS 
in a 3-dose regimen, vaccine efficacy of 64% was attained against a challenge with V. cholerae El Tor 
Inaba in previously unexposed US volunteers. The challenge was given 5 weeks after immunisation. 
Another challenge study, examining the present vaccine in a 2-dose schedule, was inconclusive due to 
insufficient  activity  of  the  challenge  strain.  A  further  field  study  conducted  in  Peru,  including  over 
82,000 subjects, was unsuccessful due to a lack of cholera cases. In a 3-year follow-up of that trial, no 
protective efficacy of 2 vaccine doses was demonstrated against El Tor cholera. 
Two  feasibility  studies  suggested  that  the  two-dose  oral  WC/rBS  vaccine  could  be  used  for  mass-
vaccination in cholera epidemic areas. One of the studies included over 27,000 persons in a refugee 
camp  in  Uganda.  The  most  important  logistic  problem  identified  was  the  bulkiness  of  vaccines  and 
buffer  solution  required  for  the  campaign,  which  complicated  storage  and  shipment  to  vaccination 
sites 
Data in other indications 
Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) 
Rationale 
Enterotoxigenic E.coli (ETEC) causes diarrhoea by first colonising the small intestine and thereafter 
producing  one  or  more  enterotoxins,  the  heat-labile  (LT)  and  heat-stable  (ST)  enterotoxin.  The  LT 
enterotoxin  is  structurally,  functionally  and  immunologically  similar  to  the  cholera  toxin  with  an 
amino acid homology of approximately 80%. The two toxins cross-react immunologically and cross-
protection  has  been  demonstrated  in  animal  models  challenged  with  ETEC  after  immunisation  with 
CT.  Due  to  these  findings,  protective  efficacy  of  Dukoral  against  LT-producing  ETEC  was 
investigated in human clinical trials. 
Enterotoxigenic  E.coli  (ETEC)  is  the  most  common  cause  of  bacterial  diarrhoea  in  developing 
countries,  responsible  for  up  to  700  000  deaths  yearly  in  children  <5  years  of  age.  The  highest 
incidence  of  ETEC  infection  is  in  children  less  than  2  years  of  age,  decreasing  with  age  due  to 
acquired immunity. The clinical spectrum includes mild self-limiting diarrhoea to severe cholera-like 
illness.  ETEC  is  also  the  single  most  common  pathogen  causing  traveller’s  diarrhoea  (TD)  and  has 
been estimated to cause 5-18 million cases each year. The incidence of TD varies substantially with 
destination  and  season,  but  approximately  30-50%  of  travellers  to  Latin  America,  Africa  and  Asia 
experience  diarrhoea  and  in  50%  (20  to  75%)  of  these  cases  ETEC  are  isolated.  The  distribution  of 
different  enterotoxins  among  ETEC  strains  isolated  in  TD  cases  varies  geographically,  but 
approximately one-third of the strains are of the LT-only phenotype, 1/3 of the ST-only phenotype and 
1/3 of the mixed LT+ST phenotype. Although a common health problem in travellers, TD is usually of 
mild  to  moderate  severity  and  of  short  duration,  average  3  days.  Widespread  use  of  antibiotics  for 
prophylaxis and treatment of TD has led to the emergence of multiresistant ETEC.  
There is a need for an effective ETEC vaccine with the main target group consisting of children <2 
years of age in the developing world. A vaccine against ETEC would also be of benefit for travellers 
to high-risk regions.  
19/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy in LT-ETEC diarrhoea/Traveller’s diarrhoea 
• 
The trials specifically planned to demonstrate efficacy of the vaccine in the prevention of LT-ETEC 
diarrhoea  (i.e.  studies  9,  20,  22)  did  not  unequivocally  prove  the  protective  efficacy.  Study  9  was  a 
Phase III study with European travellers (target population).  The statistical significance of the study 
results was borderline (statistical significance depending on the method of analysis) and the treatment 
effects  observed  were  not  considered  to  be  clinically  convincing.  Study  22  was  a  Phase  III  study 
enrolling  US  students  travelling  to  Mexico.  Due  to  problems  in  the  study  design  (subjects  were 
vaccinated upon arrival in Mexico) no protective efficacy of LT-ETEC could be shown. Study 20 was 
not conclusive as there was only one case of LT-ETEC in the study population. In Study 6, the BS-
WC vaccine conferred borderline short-term protection against LT-producing ETEC. This protection 
(constituting  a  secondary  endpoint  only)  was  significant  in  the  PP  population  but  not  in  the  ITT 
population.  However,  overall  the  incidence  of  ETEC  diarrhoea  was  very  low,  raising  concern  about 
the robustness of the efficacy point estimate. As the study was performed in an endemic area the data 
could only provide mechanistic support for protection against LT-ETEC induced diarrhoea.  
Clinical safety 
Evaluation of the safety profile of the vaccine varied substantially between clinical trials with respect 
to the mode of surveillance, definition of symptoms and time of follow-up. In the large-scale studies, 
adverse events (AEs) were generally assessed by passive surveillance, which most likely have resulted 
in underreporting. The variation in incidence of AEs reported in different studies might relate to the 
methods of collecting data. No long-term follow-up of safety symptoms has been performed. 
The  safety  of  the  new  recombinant  rCTB  cholera  vaccine  was  compared  with  the  original  CTB 
vaccine formulation in a randomised double blind study (study 11); Vaccine 1992; 10: 130-132)). The 
study population included Swedish volunteers aged 21-50 years, whereof 21 received two oral doses 
with a 2-week interval of the recombinant WC/RBS and 20 received the old WC/BS vaccine. In each 
of  the  vaccine  groups  a  few  of  the  volunteers  reported  mild  GI  symptoms.  The  safety  data  did  not 
indicate any differences between vaccine groups. 
Patient exposure 
Over 240,000 subjects have been involved in clinical studies. Of these, over 127,000 received at least 
one  dose  of  the  WC/BS  vaccine  and  approximately  30,000  received  at  least  one  dose  of  the  WC 
component vaccine. The remainder received placebo or buffer only 
Safety  data  are  currently  available  for  clinical  studies  involving  45,071  subjects  (30,000  subjects 
received  that  CTB-containing  vaccine  and  15,000  received  the  rCTB  vaccine)  receiving at least one 
dose of the WC/BS vaccine including over 5,300 children aged 1-5 years. The native CTB containing 
cholera vaccine was used in the earliest studies (studies 1-14 and 17), including the Bangladesh field 
trial  (study  6;  n=21,  141  CTB  cholera  vaccinees),  whereas  the  recombinant  rCTB  was  used  in  the 
subsequent trials (studies 11, 15-48) including the Peru military trial (study 27; n=779 rCTB cholera 
vaccinees)  and  Pampas  field  study  (study  30;  n=9,012  rCTB  cholera  vaccinees).    The  safety  data 
include  populations  from  endemic  (Bangladesh,  Uganda),  epidemic  (Latin  and  Central  America, 
Morocco), and non-endemic regions (Sweden, UK, USA,), men and women and different geographic 
areas. Vaccine tolerability was also studied in special populations, such as HIV infected individuals, 
IgA deficient subjects, peptic ulcer patients and colectomised subjects. 
20/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events and serious adverse events/deaths 
The  most  commonly  reported  adverse  events  were  gastrointestinal  symptoms,  including  abdominal 
pain  or  discomfort,  diarrhoea,  loose  stools,  nausea  and  vomiting.  These  were  observed  with  equal 
frequency  between  active  and  placebo  groups.  In  most  trials  E.coli  K12  was  used  as  placebo  but  in 
some buffer only was used. Controlled trials showed that the GI symptoms could be attributed to the 
buffer. The symptoms were generally short lasting, self-limiting and did not require specific treatment. 
The safety profile was similar in children as in adults. No long-term follow-up of safety symptoms has 
been  performed.  There  was  long-term  surveillance  of  vaccine  recipients  in  the  efficacy  studies 
(Studies 6 and 30), but safety surveillance was only passive. 
In the Bangladesh study there were 15 deaths, 5 in the BS-WC group, 8 in the WC group and 2 in the 
K12 group. No deaths were reported in studies 9  or 27, for which re-constructed study reports were 
available.  No  overall  summary  of  number  of  deaths  in  the  clinical  programme  has  been  provided. 
Safety  data  were  collected  by  passive  surveillance  and  therefore  the  15  deaths  represent  grave 
underestimates.  Published  data  from  study  6  however  are  reassuring  since  a  significant  reduction  in 
overall  mortality  was  observed  during  the  first  year  of  vaccination.  According  to  the  company  no 
serious adverse events related to the vaccine were reported during the trials. In the Bangladesh study, 
lists on hospital visits occurring within 13 days after each vaccination were provided.  
The incidence of gastrointestinal symptoms varied across studies from 0% to 44%. A high incidence 
of  44%  was  observed  in  one  study,  involving  34  healthy  adult  US  volunteers.  In  another  trial 
conducted in military recruits in Peru, the incidence of stomach cramps was 28% after the first dose 
and 23% after the second dose. An incidence of 24% for GI symptoms was observed in a third study 
involving  healthy  adult  military  personnel.  In  other  larger  clinical  studies,  lower  AE  rates  were 
recorded. The frequencies of specific symptoms reported such as loose stools and diarrhoea (2-14%), 
abdominal cramps (4.5-16%), nausea (0.4-5.0%), vomiting (0.6-1.8%), fever (0.8-1.2%) and headache 
(1.3-17%) varied, but occurred in similar frequencies in the placebo group. The rate and spectrum of 
AEs did not increase with subsequent immunisations. 
During  the  PMS  period  (1992-Oct  2001)  over  1  million  vaccine  doses  have  been  distributed  to 
approximately  500,000  travellers  in  the  Scandinavian  countries.  A  total  of  72 AE reports have  been 
reported  in  Sweden  since  1992  and  in  Norway  since  1998.  Out  of  the  62  AEs  with  possible 
relationship  to  the  vaccination,  29  were  GI  tract  reactions,  7  were  fever  reactions,  6  were  skin 
reactions (n=3 urticaria),  3 headache and 3  dizziness reactions. Comparing consecutive years during 
the reporting period revealed no evidence of an increased reporting of AEs. 
Clearly  there  were  deficiencies  in  the  safety  reporting  of  the  clinical  studies,  which  limits  full 
assessment  of  the  risk  profile.  However,  since  the  vaccine  have  been  in  use  for  over  ten  years  in 
Sweden  and  few  adverse  events  and  of  serious  grades  have  been  reported,  the  vaccine  can  be 
considered safe.  
Laboratory findings 
N/A 
Safety in special populations  
No  specific  studies  have  been  performed  to  assess  safety  of  Dukoral  in  pregnant  women,  since  the 
vaccine  only  contains  inactivated  and  non-replicating  components.  The  vaccine  has  been  used  in 
breast-feeding  women  in  several  studies  without  any  adverse  effects  in  relation  to  breast-feeding. 
Immunogenicity  studies  were  performed  in  limited  numbers  of  individuals  with  HIV-infection,  IgA 
deficiency, peptic ulcer and those colectomised due to ulcerative colitis. No apparent safety issue was 
identified in these patient groups. A transient increase in viral load was observed after vaccination in 
the HIV-infected population. 
21/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
No standard GLP studies on the pharmacology and toxicology of Dukoral have been conducted. From 
a  scientific  point  of  view,  as  discussed  above,  the  paucity  of  preclinical  studies  is  not  considered  a 
cause for concern. There are acceptable justifications for not carrying out comprehensive non-clinical 
investigations  for  this  vaccine.  Some  of  these  justifications  are  also  sufficiently  supported  by  the 
relevant  CPMP  guideline  on  preclinical  pharmacological  and  toxicological  testing  of  vaccines 
(CPMP/SWP/465/05).  
Overall,  based  on  the  particular  characteristics  of  the  vaccine  and  the  clinical  experience  to  date, 
additional preclinical studies are not warranted. The text in SPC sections 4.6 and 5.3 is appropriate and 
accurately reflects the lack of non-clinical data. Efficacy and the overall safety of the vaccine should 
be judged on clinical data. 
In addition recital 10, of Annex I of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended states: “ However, there are 
reasons of public policy for not conducting repetitive tests on humans or animals without over-riding 
cause”.  Reference  is  also  made  to  Council  Directive  86/609/EEC  of  24  November  1986  on  the 
approximation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States regarding the 
protection  of  animals  used  for  experimental  and  other  scientific  purposes,  and  Council  Decision 
1999/575/EC  of  23  March  1998  concerning  the  conclusion  by  the  Community  of  the  European 
Convention  for  the  protection  of  vertebrate  animals  used  for  experimental  and  other  scientific 
purposes.  
Two trials support a 2-dose schedule (Study 6 and 27) whereas the Pampas trial (Study 30) indicates 
that 3 doses would be needed. However, the administrative problems associated with Study 30 make 
these results less reliable. Besides the PE of the vaccine reached in studies 6 and 27, serological data 
supported a 2-dose primary regimen. Moreover, the memory responses induced by 2 doses were of the 
same  magnitude  as  after  3  doses.  The  Company  has  not  investigated  a  3-dose  primary  schedule 
followed  by  a  booster  after  1  year  and  no  data  on  this  potentially  improved  regimen  exist.  Thus, 
available data support a 2-dose primary regimen in adults. Antibody titers against both the CTB and 
the whole-cell component increased substantially by day 7 as demonstrated in a compilation of study 
data. 
Thus, the claimed primary 2-dose vaccination schedule and the timing of the booster dose for adults 
were accepted. For younger children <6 years short term protective efficacy was demonstrated; after 3 
doses of BS-WC the protection waned rapidly within 1 year. The recommendation for children to give 
a booster dose after 6 months was considered acceptable.  
The  vaccine  could  be  used  both  for  individualised  as  well  as  for  population  immunisation,  but  for 
Europe  the  intended  target  group  is  travellers  to  endemic  areas.  Immunogenicity  studies  were 
performed  in  naive  EU  subjects,  but  no  pivotal  efficacy  trial  was  conducted  in  this  population.  The 
risk of cholera for regular tourists is minor, whereas in certain groups, such as health care workers in 
epidemics, the vaccine could be of great importance. 
In  an  oral  explanation  in  front  of  the  Committee  the  applicant  further  discussed  the  findings  in  the 
trials performed in travellers’ diarrhoea. The existence of only one pivotal trial in the target population 
for travellers’ diarrhoea with results of borderline statistical significance was not considered sufficient 
for  recommendation  of  the  granting  of  a  Marketing  Authorisation.  The  Committee  recommends  a 
statement  in  Section  5.1  of  the  SPC  on  the  structural,  functional  and  immunological  similarities 
between heat labile toxin of enterotoxigenic E. coli and the B-subunit of the cholera toxin. 
The risk profile of the vaccine is favourable. 
The overall benefit risk relationship was considered favourable for Dukoral in the indication for active 
immunisation against disease caused by V. cholerae serogroup O1 of adults and children from 2 years 
of age.  
22/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of all clinical trials with Dukoral 
Location, year* 
Clinical 
Phase 
Volunteers 
(n) 
Age and Sex 
Objective(s) 
Reference/Report 
Abbreviated 
Name 
rCTB/CTB 
1.  Gbg Dose I 
CTB 
Bangladesh, 1980 
I 
34 
Adult men and 
women 
Healthy adults 
27 total 
15 primary, 
12 booster 
27 
Adult men and 
women 
196 total  
(143 
vaccine, 53 
buffer only) 
Children 2-14 
years 
Women >14 years 
1257 total: 
898 took 3 
doses  
Children 
 2-15 
Women >15 
89152 total 
63 498 took 
3 doses 
5 
Children 
 2-15 
Women >15 
Adults  
(25-55 years) 
15-21 
overlap #3 
Adult men and 
women 
Safety and 
immunogenicity 
of 2 doses of CTB 
compared with 
cholera 
convalescents 
Immunogenicity 
of a booster dose 
given 2.5-5 years 
after primary 
vaccination 
Safety and 
immunogenicity 
of 2 doses of 
CTB. Same as #1. 
To assess if the 
oral BS/WC 
vaccine requires 
protection from 
gastric acid  
Safety and 
immunogenicity 
of whole cell ± 
CTB  
Efficacy (anti-
cholera and anti-
ETEC) 
Immunogenicity: 
ASC 1 year after 
vaccination  
Subclass 
distribution after 
vaccination and 
disease 
2.  Five-year 
Sweden, 1982-87 
immunologic 
memory  
CTB 
3.  Gbg Dose II 
CTB 
Sweden 
4.  Neutralization of 
gastric acid 
Bangladesh 
1984 
CTB 
I 
I 
II 
5.  Pre-Bangladesh 
CTB 
Bangladesh, 1984 
II 
Bangladesh, 1985 
III 
Sweden  
1987 
Sweden and 
Bangladesh 
I 
I 
6.  Bangladesh 
CTB 
7.  1-year ASC 
CTB 
8.  IgG and IgA 
subclass 
CTB 
9.  Peltola 
CTB 
Morocco, 1989 
III 
615 
Adult Finnish 
tourists 
Efficacy (anti-
ETEC) 
10. ASC and gamma-
interferon 
CTB 
11. Gbg CTB 
CTB and rCTB 
Sweden 
1989-90 
Sweden, 1990-1991 
12. Gbg Dose Interval 
CTB 
Sweden, 
1990-1991 
II 
I 
I 
10 
41 
Male and female 
aged 26-49 years 
Adults 
21-50 
180 
Adults 
Local antibody 
secreting cells and 
local cytokine 
production 
Safety and 
immunogenicity 
of BS-WC versus 
rCTB-WC 
Effects of number 
of doses, dose 
interval and 
coadminstered 
buffer 
*In those cases when the study year is not known, the year of the publication is used. 
Svennerholm, A. M 
et al 1984. J Infect 
Dis 149:884-93 
Jertborn, M., et al. 
1986. J Clin 
Microbiol 24:203-9. 
Jertborn, M., A. M. 
Svennerholm, and J. 
Holmgren. 1988. J 
Infect Dis 157:374-
7 
Jertborn, M., et al. 
1984. Int Arch 
Allergy Appl 
Immunol 75:38-43. 
Clemens, J. D., et al 
1986. J Infect Dis 
154:175-8. 
Clemens, J. D et al. 
1987. J Infect Dis 
155:79-85. 
Study report: CSR-
010 
Lycke, N., et al. 
1987. Scand J 
Immunol 26:207-1 
Jertborn, M., et al. 
1988. Int Arch 
Allergy Appl 
Immunol 85:358-63. 
Study report: CSR-
011 
Peltola H et al. 
Lancet Nov 23, 
1991; 338: 1285-
1289. 
Quiding, M., et al 
1991. J Clin Invest 
88:143-8. 
Jertborn M. et al. 
Vaccine 1992; 10: 
130-132. 
Jertborn M. et al. 
Vaccine 1993; 11: 
1007-1012. 
23/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical 
Phase 
I 
Volunteers 
(n) 
13  
Age and Sex 
Objective(s) 
Male adults 
Immunogenicity 
(ASC) 
Abbreviated Name 
Location, year 
13.  Cell responses 
booster 
CTB 
14. HIV Sweden  
CTB 
15. Fort Bragg I 
rCTB 
16. Fort Bragg II 
rCTB 
UK 
1991 (publ) 
Sweden,  
1990-1992 
USA 
1991 
USA  
1991 
17. Gbg Memory 
rCTB 
Sweden, 
 1991-1992 
18. Ancon 
rCTB 
Peru 
1992 
II 
II 
II 
I 
II 
8 HIV 
10 healthy 
Men and women  
age 36-65  
74 
186 
66 
Military personnel 
18-44 years 
Military personnel 
18-44 years 
Adults 
18-48 
346  
Military recruits 
Men 17-23 years 
19. Chilean children 
rCTB 
Chile 
1992 
II 
485 total 
Children 2-15 
years 
20. Mediterranean 
shipboard 
rCTB 
US 
1992 
III 
1225  
3-dose 
recipients 
Adults >18 years 
21. Barranquilla 
rCTB 
Colombia, 1992 
II 
1165  
2-dose 
recipients 
Children and 
adults 1-64 years 
22. US students in 
Mexico 
rCTB 
Mexico 
1992 
III 
502 
Adults 
(US college 
students) 
23. HIV UK and 
Kenya  
rCTB 
UK and Kenya 
1992-93 
24. Challenge 
rCTB 
USA  
1993 
II 
III 
20 UK 
healthy 
12 UK HIV 
20 Kenyan 
HIV 
18 
Men and women  
26-52 years 
Men and women  
18-40 years 
Reference/ 
Report 
Lewis, D. J et al. 
1991. Eur J 
Immunol 
21:2087-94. 
Eriksson, K. et al. 
1993. Aids 
7:1087-91.  
Sanchez, J. L., et 
al. 1993. . J Infect 
Dis 167:1446-9. 
Sanchez, J. L., et 
al. 1993. . J Infect 
Dis 167:1446-9. 
Jertborn et al. 
Vaccine 1994; 12: 
1078-1082. 
Sanchez, J. L. et 
al.1995. Trans R 
Soc Trop Med 
Hyg 89:542-5. 
Short report 
available 
Not published, 
RA Kuschner 
IND annual report 
available 
Not published. S. 
J. Savarino. 
IND summary 
available. 
Alberto Concha et 
al.  1995. Bulletin 
of PAHO. 29(4): 
312-321. 
Ernesto G. 
Scerpella, et al. 
1995. J. Travel. 
Med. 2:22-27. 
Lewis, D. J. et al 
1994. Aids 8:779-
85. 
 Not published 
Taylor 
IND summary 
available. 
Safety and 
immunogenicity 
in HIV-infected 
volunteers 
Safety and 
immunogenicity,  
Safety and 
immunogenicity, 
2 different buffer 
doses 
Immunological 
memory 10 
months after 
vaccination  
Safety and 
immunogenicity, 
Comment: 
Cholera epidemic 
immediately after 
trial began. 
Safety, 
immunogenicity, 
2 doses, varying 
dose interval 1-6 
weeks. Booster 
dose after 6 
months. Not 
blinded. 
Efficacy against 
ETEC diarrhea. 2 
doses and booster 
after 3 months. 
No cases, they 
went to 
Yugoslavia 
instead of Egypt. 
Safety and 
immunogenicity 
of the WC/rBS 
vaccine in 
Colombian 
volunteers aged 1-
64 years. 
Safety, 
immunogenicity 
and protective 
effiacacy against 
ETEC diarrhea 
when vaccinating 
after arrival. 
Safety and 
immunogenicity 
in HIV-infected 
volunteers 
Efficacy after 
challenge with V. 
cholerae.  
24/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abbreviated Name 
Location, year 
Clinical 
Phase 
Volunteers 
(n) 
Age and Sex 
Objective(s) 
23 IgAd 
11 normal 
Adult 
Men and women 
Immunogenicity 
25. IgA+G deficient 
rCTB 
Sweden 
1993 (publ) 
26. IgA deficient 
rCTB 
Sweden 
1994 (publ) 
II 
II 
27. Peru Military 
RCTB 
Peru,  
1994 
III 
1331 
Adults 
17-65 
28. T lymphocytes 
RCTB 
UK 
1993-1995 (publ) 
I 
Approx 10 
Adults 
30 IgAd,  
21 healthy 
volunteers  
Adult 
Men and women 
Safety and 
immunogenicity 
in IgA deficient 
volunteers 
Efficacy (anti-
cholera) 
T-cell mediated 
immunity 
29. El Carmen 
RCTB 
Peru, 1993-1994 
II 
541 
Children and 
Adults 
2-65 
Safety and 
Immunogenicity 
after 2 primary 
and a booster dose 
after 1 year. 
30. Pampas de San 
Peru, 1993-1995 
III 
35 554 total 
15 026  
3-dose 
recipients 
Children and 
Adults 
2-65 
Efficacy (anti-
cholera) 
Reference/ 
Report 
Nilssen, D. E., et al. 
1993. Scand J 
Immunol 38:201-8. 
Nilssen, D. E, et al. 
1993. 
Immunodeficiency 
4:55-7 
Friman, V.et al. 1994. 
Clin Exp Immunol 
95:222-6. 
Study report CSR-003 
Sanchez, J.L. et al. 
Lancet 1994; 344: 
1273-1276. 
Castello-Branco, L. 
R., et al. 1995. 
Vaccine 13:817-20. 
Castello-Branco, L. R. 
et al. 1994. Vaccine 
12:65-72. 
Lewis, D. J. et al. 
1993. Vaccine 
11:119-21. 
Begue, R.E. et al.  
Vaccine 1995; 13: 
691-694. 
Begue, R.E. et al.  
Infect. Immun 1995; 
63: 3726-3728. 
Taylor, DN et al.  J 
Inf Dis 
2000;181:1667-1673. 
Juan 
rCTB 
31. Egyptians and 
Americans 
rCTB 
32. Arequipa 
rCTB 
33. Helicobacter 
pylori- infected  
rCTB 
Egypt, 
1993-95 
Peru 
1994-98 
Sweden 
1994-96 
34. Ulcerative colitis 
rCTB  
Sweden 1994-97 
35. ASC 
characterization 
rCTB 
Sweden 
1995 (publ) 
II 
III 
II 
II 
I 
120 
Egyptians  
21 US 
volunteers  
60 Egyptian 2-5 
years and 60 
adults 
21 US adults 
Safety and 
immunogenicity 
in different 
populations 
Full CSR by D. 
Tribble. (IND, Not by 
SBL) 
92749 total 
82762  
3-dose 
recipients 
Children and 
Adults 
2-65 
Efficacy against 
cholera in a 
Peruvian 
population 
Not published 
C. Lanata, Not 
published,  
19 
35 
Men and women 
aged 23-50 
Men and women 
aged 22-73 
14 
Healthy adults 
Safety and 
immunogenicity 
in H. pylori-
infected subjects 
Safety and 
immunogenicity 
in ulcerative 
colitis patients 
Characterization 
of B cell surface 
markers after oral 
or parenteral (TT) 
vaccination 
Mattsson, A1998. J 
Clin Invest 102:51-6.  
Kilhamn, J., 1998. 
Infect Immun 
66:3995-9.  
Lakew, M. et al. 1995. 
Adv Exp Med Biol 
371B:1451-3. 
25/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abbreviated Name 
Location, year 
Clinical 
Phase 
Volunteers 
(n) 
Age and Sex 
Objective(s) 
Reference/Report 
36. ASC in tonsils 
rCTB 
Sweden 
1995 (publ) 
37. ASC homing 
receptors 
rCTB 
Sweden 
1995 (publ) 
38. Susana Higushi 
rCTB 
Peru, 1995 
39. HIV Brazil  
rCTB 
40. Acetylcysteine 
rCTB 
Brazil, 
1995 
Sweden 
1995-96 
7 oral 
Healthy adults 
(16-37 years) 
23 
164 
Healthy men 
and women 
22-51 years 
Children and 
Adults 
2-65 
Induction of 
tonsillar B-cell 
responses after 
oral or other route 
Characterization 
of B cell homing 
receptors after 
oral or parenteral 
(TT) vaccination 
Safety and 
Immunogenicity  
12 
Men aged 30-60  Safety and 
I 
I 
II 
II 
II 
I 
I 
I 
41. US and Mexicans 
rCTB 
42. Vaginal and oral 
vaccination 
rCTB 
43. Oral, nasal and 
systemic 
vaccination 
rCTB 
44. Uganda 
RCTB 
45. OCV-028 
RCTB 
46. Oral, rectal, 
vaginal 
vaccination 
RCTB 
47. Nasal kinetics 
rCTB 
40 
Men and 
women aged 23-
53 
10 US 
18 Mexican  
7 oral 
Men and 
women >18 
years 
Adult women 
14 oral 
Healthy adults, 
18-51 years 
Mexico 
1996 (publ) 
Sweden 
1996 (publ) 
 Sweden 
1997 (publ) 
Uganda 1997 
Feasibility 
27 607 
>1 year 
Men and 
women 
Nicaragua, 1997 
II 
125 
Children aged 
1-12 years 
USA 
1997 (publ) 
Sweden 1997 
I 
I 
I 
14 (total, oral, 
rectal or 
vaginal) 
Healthy adults, 
women 
9 oral 
6 oral 
Healthy adults 
women 
Healthy adults 
men 
48. Urinary tract 
rCTB 
Sweden 1997 
Quiding-Jarbrink, M., 
et al. 1995. Infect 
Immun 63:853-7. 
Quiding-Jarbrink, M. 
et al. 1995. Eur J 
Immunol 25:322-7. 
Taylor N D et al. Am 
J Trop Med Hyg, 
61(6), 1999, 869-873. 
Ortigao-de-Sampaio, 
M. B., 1998. Aids 
12:F145-50.  
Kilhamn, J., et al 
1998. Clin Diagn Lab 
Immunol 5:247-50. 
Scerpella, E. G. et al. 
1996. J Travel Med 
3:143-147. 
Wassen, L. et al. 
1996. Scand J 
Immunol 44:408-14 
Quiding-Jabrink, M. 
et al. 1997. J Clin 
Invest 99:1281-6. 
Legros, D., et al. 
1999. Bull World 
Health Organ 77:837-
42. 
Dorlencourt, F.et al. 
1999. Bull World 
Health Organ 77:949-
50. 
Study report, draft 
Not published 
Kozlowski, P. A et al. 
1997. Infect Immun 
65:1387-94. 
Rudin, A., et al. 1998. 
Infect Immun 
66:3390-6. 
Rudin, A., et al. 1999. 
Infect Immun 
67:2884-90. 
immunogenicity 
in HIV-infected 
volunteers 
Kinetics of local 
and systemic 
immune responses 
after vaccination 
alone or together 
with 
acetylcysteine 
Immunogenicity 
and kinetics of 
immune response 
Comparison of 
immune responses 
after vaginal and 
oral vaccination 
Comparison of 
cell markers after 
oral, nasal and 
systemic 
vaccination 
Feasibility of 
mass vaccination 
in a refugee camp 
Safety and 
immunogenicity 
in Nicaraguan 
children 
Immunogenicity, 
comparison oral, 
rectal, vaginal 
vaccination 
Immunogenicity, 
comparison oral 
vs. nasal 
vaccination 
Immunogenicity, 
comparison oral 
vs. nasal 
vaccination 
26/26 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
