ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Mylan 30 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
Duloxetine Mylan 60 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
30 mg capsules 
Each capsule contains 30 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride). 
Excipient(s) with known effect 
Each capsule contains 62.1 mg sucrose. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
60 mg capsules 
Each capsule contains 60 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride). 
Excipient(s) with known effect 
Each capsule contains 124.2 mg sucrose. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Hard gastro-resistant capsule 
30 mg capsules 
Opaque blue cap and opaque white body approximately 15.9 mm, imprinted in gold ink with ‘MYLAN’ 
over ‘DL 30’ on both the cap and the body. 
60 mg capsules 
Opaque blue cap and opaque yellow body approximately 21.7 mm, imprinted in white ink with ‘MYLAN’ 
over ‘DL 60’ on both the cap and the body. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment of major depressive disorder. 
Treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain. 
Treatment of generalised anxiety disorder. 
Duloxetine Mylan is indicated in adults. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For further information see section 5.1. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Major depressive disorder  
The starting and recommended maintenance dose is 60 mg once daily with or without food.  Dosages 
above 60 mg once daily, up to a maximum dose of 120 mg per day have been evaluated from a safety 
perspective in clinical trials.  However, there is no clinical evidence suggesting that patients not 
responding to the initial recommended dose may benefit from dose up-titrations. 
Therapeutic response is usually seen after 2-4 weeks of treatment. 
After consolidation of the antidepressive response, it is recommended to continue treatment for several 
months, in order to avoid relapse. In patients responding to duloxetine, and with a history of repeated 
episodes of major depression, further long-term treatment at a dose of 60 to 120 mg/day could be 
considered. 
Generalised anxiety disorder 
The recommended starting dose in patients with generalised anxiety disorder is 30 mg once daily with or 
without food.  In patients with insufficient response the dose should be increased to 60 mg, which is the 
usual maintenance dose in most patients. 
In patients with co-morbid major depressive disorder, the starting and maintenance dose is 60 mg once 
daily (please see also dosing recommendation above). 
Doses up to 120 mg per day have been shown to be efficacious and have been evaluated from a safety 
perspective in clinical trials.  In patients with insufficient response to 60 mg, escalation up to 90 mg or 
120 mg may therefore be considered.  Dose escalation should be based upon clinical response and 
tolerability. 
After consolidation of the response, it is recommended to continue treatment for several months, in order 
to avoid relapse. 
Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain 
The starting and recommended maintenance dose is 60 mg daily with or without food.  Dosages above 
60 mg once daily, up to a maximum dose of 120 mg per day administered in evenly divided doses, have 
been evaluated from a safety perspective in clinical trials.  The plasma concentration of duloxetine 
displays large inter-individual variability (see section 5.2).  Hence, some patients that respond 
insufficiently to 60 mg may benefit from a higher dose. 
Response to treatment should be evaluated after 2 months.  In patients with inadequate initial response, 
additional response after this time is unlikely. 
The therapeutic benefit should be reassessed regularly (at least every three months) (see section 5.1). 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No dosage adjustment is recommended for elderly patients solely on the basis of age.  However, as with 
any medicine, caution should be exercised when treating the elderly, especially with Duloxetine Mylan 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
120 mg per day for major depressive disorder or generalised anxiety disorder, for which data are limited 
(see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Duloxetine Mylan must not be used in patients with liver disease resulting in hepatic impairment (see 
sections 4.3 and 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal dysfunction (creatinine 
clearance 30 to 80 ml/min).  Duloxetine Mylan must not be used in patients with severe renal impairment 
(creatinine clearance <30 ml/min; see section 4.3). 
Paediatric population 
Duloxetine should not be used in children and adolescents under the age of 18 years for the treatment of 
major depressive disorder because of safety and efficacy concerns (see sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1). 
The safety and efficacy of duloxetine for the treatment of generalised anxiety disorder in paediatric 
patients aged 7-17 years have not been established. Current available data are described in sections 4.8, 
5.1 and 5.2. 
The safety and efficacy of duloxetine for the treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain has not 
been studied. No data are available. 
Discontinuation of treatment 
Abrupt discontinuation should be avoided.  When stopping treatment with Duloxetine Mylan the dose 
should be gradually reduced over a period of at least one to two weeks in order to reduce the risk of 
withdrawal reactions (see sections 4.4 and 4.8).  If intolerable symptoms occur following a decrease in the 
dose or upon discontinuation of treatment, then resuming the previously prescribed dose may be 
considered.  Subsequently, the physician may continue decreasing the dose, but at a more gradual rate. 
Method of administration 
For oral use. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Concomitant use of Duloxetine Mylan with nonselective, irreversible monoamine oxidase inhibitors 
(MAOIs) is contraindicated (see section 4.5). 
Liver disease resulting in hepatic impairment (see section 5.2). 
Duloxetine Mylan should not be used in combination with fluvoxamine, ciprofloxacin or enoxacin (i.e. 
potent CYP1A2 inhibitors) since the combination results in elevated plasma concentrations of duloxetine 
(see section 4.5). 
Severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min) (see section 4.4). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The initiation of treatment with Duloxetine Mylan is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled 
hypertension that could expose patients to a potential risk of hypertensive crisis (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Mania and seizures 
Duloxetine Mylan should be used with caution in patients with a history of mania or a diagnosis of bipolar 
disorder, and/or seizures. 
Mydriasis 
Mydriasis has been reported in association with duloxetine, therefore, caution should be used when 
prescribing Duloxetine Mylan to patients with increased intraocular pressure, or those at risk of acute 
narrow-angle glaucoma. 
Blood pressure and heart rate 
Duloxetine has been associated with an increase in blood pressure and clinically significant hypertension 
in some patients.  This may be due to the noradrenergic effect of duloxetine.  Cases of hypertensive crisis 
have been reported with duloxetine, especially in patients with pre-existing hypertension.  Therefore, in 
patients with known hypertension and/or other cardiac disease, blood pressure monitoring is 
recommended, especially during the first month of treatment.  Duloxetine should be used with caution in 
patients whose conditions could be compromised by an increased heart rate or by an increase in blood 
pressure.  Caution should also be exercised when duloxetine is used with medicinal products that may 
impair its metabolism (see section 4.5).  For patients who experience a sustained increase in blood 
pressure while receiving duloxetine either dose reduction or gradual discontinuation should be considered 
(see section 4.8).  In patients with uncontrolled hypertension duloxetine should not be initiated (see 
section 4.3). 
Renal impairment 
Increased plasma concentrations of duloxetine occur in patients with severe renal impairment on 
haemodialysis (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min).  For patients with severe renal impairment, see 
section 4.3.  See section 4.2 for information on patients with mild or moderate renal dysfunction. 
Serotonin syndrome 
As with other serotonergic agents, serotonin syndrome, a potentially life-threatening condition, may occur 
with duloxetine treatment, particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic agents (including 
SSRIs, SNRIs, tricyclic antidepressants, opioids (such as buprenorphine) or triptans), with agents that 
impair metabolism of serotonin such as MAOIs, or with antipsychotics or other dopamine antagonists that 
may affect the serotonergic neurotransmitter systems (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). 
Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g. agitation, hallucinations, coma), 
autonomic instability (e.g. tachycardia, labile blood pressure, hyperthermia), neuromuscular aberrations 
(e.g. hyperreflexia, incoordination) and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g. nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea). 
If concomitant treatment with duloxetine and other serotonergic agents that may affect the serotonergic 
and/or dopaminergic neurotransmitter systems is clinically warranted, careful observation of the patient is 
advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
St John’s wort 
Adverse reactions may be more common during concomitant use of Duloxetine Mylan and herbal 
preparations containing St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum). 
Suicide 
Major depressive disorder and Generalised anxiety disorder  
Depression is associated with an increased risk of suicidal thoughts, self harm and suicide (suicide-related 
events).  This risk persists until significant remission occurs.  As improvement may not occur during the 
first few weeks or more of treatment, patients should be closely monitored until such improvement occurs.  
It is general clinical experience that the risk of suicide may increase in the early stages of recovery. 
Other psychiatric conditions for which Duloxetine Mylan is prescribed can also be associated with an 
increased risk of suicide-related events.  In addition, these conditions may be co-morbid with major 
depressive disorder.  The same precautions observed when treating patients with major depressive 
disorder should therefore be observed when treating patients with other psychiatric disorders. 
Patients with a history of suicide-related events or those exhibiting a significant degree of suicidal 
thoughts prior to commencement of treatment are known to be at greater risk of suicidal thoughts or 
suicidal behaviour, and should receive careful monitoring during treatment.  A meta-analysis of 
placebo-controlled clinical trials of antidepressant medicinal products in psychiatric disorders showed an 
increased risk of suicidal behaviour with antidepressants compared to placebo in patients less than 
25 years old. 
Cases of suicidal thoughts and suicidal behaviours have been reported during duloxetine therapy or early 
after treatment discontinuation (see section 4.8). 
Close supervision of patients and in particular those at high risk should accompany medicinal product 
therapy especially in early treatment and following dose changes.  Patients (and caregivers of patients) 
should be alerted about the need to monitor for any clinical worsening, suicidal behaviour or thoughts and 
unusual changes in behaviour and to seek medical advice immediately if these symptoms present. 
Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain  
As with other medicinal products with similar pharmacological action (antidepressants), isolated cases of 
suicidal ideation and suicidal behaviours have been reported during duloxetine therapy or early after 
treatment discontinuation.  Concerning risk factors for suicidality in depression, see above.  Physicians 
should encourage patients to report any distressing thoughts or feelings at any time. 
Use in children and adolescents under 18 years of age 
Duloxetine Mylan should not be used in the treatment of children and adolescents under the age of 
18 years. Suicide-related behaviours (suicide attempts and suicidal thoughts), and hostility (predominantly 
aggression, oppositional behaviour and anger), were more frequently observed in clinical trials among 
children and adolescents treated with antidepressants compared to those treated with placebo.  If, based on 
clinical need, a decision to treat is nevertheless taken, the patient should be carefully monitored for the 
appearance of suicidal symptoms (see section 5.1). In addition, long-term safety data in children and 
adolescents concerning growth, maturation and cognitive and behavioural development are lacking (see 
section 4.8). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Haemorrhage 
There have been reports of bleeding abnormalities, such as ecchymoses, purpura and gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin/noradrenaline reuptake 
inhibitors (SNRIs), including duloxetine. Duloxetine may increase the risk of postpartum haemorrhage 
(see section 4.6). Caution is advised in patients taking anticoagulants and/or medicinal products known to 
affect platelet function (e.g. NSAIDs or acetylsalicylic acid (ASA)), and in patients with known bleeding 
tendencies. 
Hyponatraemia 
Hyponatraemia has been reported when administering Duloxetine Mylan, including cases with serum 
sodium lower than 110 mmol/l.  Hyponatraemia may be due to a syndrome of inappropriate anti-diuretic 
hormone secretion (SIADH).  The majority of cases of hyponatraemia were reported in the elderly, 
especially when coupled with a recent history of, or condition pre-disposing to, altered fluid balance. 
Caution is required in patients at increased risk for hyponatraemia, such as elderly, cirrhotic, or 
dehydrated patients or patients treated with diuretics. 
Discontinuation of treatment 
Withdrawal symptoms when treatment is discontinued are common, particularly if discontinuation is 
abrupt (see section 4.8).  In clinical trials adverse events seen on abrupt treatment discontinuation occurred 
in approximately 45% of patients treated with duloxetine and 23% of patients taking placebo.  The risk of 
withdrawal symptoms seen with SSRI’s and SNRI’s may be dependent on several factors including the 
duration and dose of therapy and the rate of dose reduction.  The most commonly reported reactions are 
listed in section 4.8.  Generally these symptoms are mild to moderate, however, in some patients they may 
be severe in intensity. They usually occur within the first few days of discontinuing treatment, but there 
have been very rare reports of such symptoms in patients who have inadvertently missed a dose. Generally 
these symptoms are self-limiting and usually resolve within 2 weeks, though in some individuals they may 
be prolonged (2-3 months or more).  It is therefore advised that duloxetine should be gradually tapered 
when discontinuing treatment over a period of no less than 2 weeks, according to the patient’s needs (see 
section 4.2). 
Elderly 
Data on the use of duloxetine 120 mg in elderly patients with major depressive disorder and generalised 
anxiety disorder are limited.  Therefore, caution should be exercised when treating the elderly with the 
maximum dosage (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Akathisia/psychomotor restlessness 
The use of duloxetine has been associated with the development of akathisia, characterised by a 
subjectively unpleasant or distressing restlessness and need to move often accompanied by an inability to 
sit or stand still.  This is most likely to occur within the first few weeks of treatment. In patients who 
develop these symptoms, increasing the dose may be detrimental. 
Medicinal products containing duloxetine 
Duloxetine is used under different trademarks in several indications (treatment of diabetic neuropathic 
pain, major depressive disorder, generalised anxiety disorder and stress urinary incontinence). The use of 
more than one of these products concomitantly should be avoided. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatitis/increased liver enzymes 
Cases of liver injury, including severe elevations of liver enzymes (>10 times upper limit of normal), 
hepatitis and jaundice have been reported with duloxetine (see section 4.8).  Most of them occurred during 
the first months of treatment.  The pattern of liver damage was predominantly hepatocellular.  Duloxetine 
should be used with caution in patients treated with other medicinal products associated with hepatic 
injury. 
Sexual dysfunction 
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs)/serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may 
cause symptoms of sexual dysfunction (see section 4.8). There have been reports of long-lasting sexual 
dysfunction where the symptoms have continued despite discontinuation of SSRIs/SNRIs. 
Excipients 
Duloxetine Mylan hard gastro-resistant capsules contain sucrose and sodium. 
Patients with rare hereditary problems of fructose intolerance, glucose-galactose malabsorption or 
sucrase-isomaltase insufficiency should not take this medicine. 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) 
Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, duloxetine should not be used in combination with non-selective 
irreversible monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or within at least 14 days of discontinuing treatment 
with an MAOI.  Based on the half-life of duloxetine, at least 5 days should be allowed after stopping 
Duloxetine Mylan before starting an MAOI (see section 4.3). 
The concomitant use of Duloxetine Mylan with selective, reversible MAOIs, like moclobemide, is not 
recommended (see section 4.4).  The antibiotic linezolid is a reversible non-selective MAOI and should 
not be given to patients treated with Duloxetine Mylan (see section 4.4). 
Inhibitors of CYP1A2 
Because CYP1A2 is involved in duloxetine metabolism, concomitant use of duloxetine with potent 
inhibitors of CYP1A2 is likely to result in higher concentrations of duloxetine.  Fluvoxamine (100 mg 
once daily), a potent inhibitor of CYP1A2, decreased the apparent plasma clearance of duloxetine by 
about 77% and increased AUCo-t 6-fold.  Therefore Duloxetine Mylan should not be administered in 
combination with potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 like fluvoxamine (see section 4.3). 
CNS medicinal products 
The risk of using duloxetine in combination with other CNS-active medicinal products has not been 
systematically evaluated, except in the cases described in this section.  Consequently, caution is advised 
when Duloxetine Mylan is taken in combination with other centrally acting medicinal products or 
substances, including alcohol and sedative medicinal products (e.g. benzodiazepines, morphinomimetics, 
antipsychotics, phenobarbital, sedative antihistamines). 
Serotonergic agents 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In rare cases, serotonin syndrome has been reported in patients using SSRIs/SNRIs concomitantly with 
serotonergic agents.  Caution is advisable if Duloxetine Mylan is used concomitantly with serotonergic 
agents like SSRIs, SNRIs, tricyclic antidepressants like clomipramine or amitriptyline, MAOIs like 
moclobemide or linezolid, triptans, opioids like buprenorphine, tramadol or pethidine, St John’s wort 
(Hypericum perforatum), and tryptophan (see section 4.4). 
Effect of duloxetine on other medicinal products 
Medicinal products metabolised by CYP1A2 
The pharmacokinetics of theophylline, a CYP1A2 substrate, were not significantly affected by 
co-administration with duloxetine (60 mg twice daily). 
Medicinal products metabolised by CYP2D6 
Duloxetine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. When duloxetine was administered at a dose of 60 mg 
twice daily with a single dose of desipramine, a CYP2D6 substrate, the AUC of desipramine increased 
3-fold.  The co-administration of duloxetine (40 mg twice daily) increases steady state AUC of tolterodine 
(2 mg twice daily) by 71%, but does not affect the pharmacokinetics of its active 5-hydroxyl metabolite 
and no dosage adjustment is recommended.  Caution is advised if Duloxetine Mylan is co-administered 
with medicinal products that are predominantly metabolised by CYP2D6 (risperidone, tricyclic 
antidepressants [TCAs] such as nortriptyline, amitriptyline, and imipramine) particularly if they have a 
narrow therapeutic index (such as flecainide, propafenone and metoprolol). 
Oral contraceptives and other steroidal agents 
Results of in vitro studies demonstrate that duloxetine does not induce the catalytic activity of CYP3A.  
Specific in vivo drug interaction studies have not been performed. 
Anticoagulants and antiplatelet agents 
Caution should be exercised when duloxetine is combined with oral anticoagulants or antiplatelet agents 
due to a potential increased risk of bleeding attributable to a pharmacodynamic interaction.  Furthermore, 
increases in INR values have been reported when duloxetine was co-administered to patients treated with 
warfarin.  However, concomitant administration of duloxetine with warfarin under steady state conditions, 
in healthy volunteers, as part of a clinical pharmacology study, did not result in a clinically significant 
change in INR from baseline or in the pharmacokinetics of R- or S-warfarin. 
Effects of other medicinal products on duloxetine 
Antacids and H2 antagonists 
Co-administration of duloxetine with aluminium- and magnesium-containing antacids or duloxetine with 
famotidine had no significant effect on the rate or extent of duloxetine absorption after administration of a 
40 mg oral dose. 
Inducers of CYP1A2 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses have shown that smokers have almost 50% lower plasma 
concentrations of duloxetine compared with non-smokers. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Fertility  
In animal studies, duloxetine had no effect on male fertility, and effects in females were only evident at 
doses that caused maternal toxicity. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy  
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity at systemic exposure levels (AUC) of duloxetine 
lower than the maximum clinical exposure (see section 5.3). 
Two large observational studies do not suggest an overall increased risk of major congenital malformation 
(one from the US including 2,500 exposed to duloxetine during the first trimester and one from the EU 
including 1,500 exposed to duloxetine during the first trimester). The analysis on specific malformations 
such as cardiac malformations shows inconclusive results. 
In the EU study, maternal exposure to duloxetine during late pregnancy (at any time from 20 weeks 
gestational age to delivery) was associated with an increased risk for preterm birth (less than 2-fold, 
corresponding to approximately 6 additional premature births per 100 women treated with duloxetine late 
in pregnancy). The majority occurred between 35 and 36 weeks of gestation. This association was not 
seen in the US study. 
The US observational data have provided evidence of an increased risk (less than 2-fold) of postpartum 
haemorrhage following duloxetine exposure within the month prior to birth. 
Epidemiological data have suggested that the use of SSRIs in pregnancy, particularly in late pregnancy, 
may increase the risk of persistent pulmonary hypertension in the newborn (PPHN).  Although no studies 
have investigated the association of PPHN to SNRI treatment, this potential risk cannot be ruled out with 
duloxetine taking into account the related mechanism of action (inhibition of the re-uptake of serotonin). 
As with other serotonergic medicinal products, discontinuation symptoms may occur in the neonate after 
maternal duloxetine use near term.  Discontinuation symptoms seen with duloxetine may include 
hypotonia, tremor, jitteriness, feeding difficulty, respiratory distress and seizures.  The majority of cases 
have occurred either at birth or within a few days of birth. 
Duloxetine Mylan should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to 
the foetus.  Women should be advised to notify their physician if they become pregnant, or intend to 
become pregnant, during therapy. 
Breast feeding 
Duloxetine is very weakly excreted into human milk based on a study of 6 lactating patients, who did not 
breast feed their children.  The estimated daily infant dose on a mg/kg basis is approximately 0.14% of the 
maternal dose (see section 5.2).  As the safety of duloxetine in infants is not known, the use of Duloxetine 
Mylan while breast-feeding is not recommended. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
No studies on the effects on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed.  Duloxetine 
Mylan may be associated with sedation and dizziness.  Patients should be instructed that if they experience 
sedation or dizziness they should avoid potentially hazardous tasks such as driving or operating 
machinery. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in patients treated with duloxetine were nausea, headache, 
dry mouth, somnolence, and dizziness.  However, the majority of common adverse reactions were mild to 
moderate, they usually started early in therapy, and most tended to subside even as therapy was continued. 
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
Table 1 gives the adverse reactions observed from spontaneous reporting and in placebo-controlled 
clinical trials. 
Table 1: Adverse reactions 
Frequency estimate: Very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100), 
rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000), very rare (<1/10,000). 
Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Infections and infestations 
Immune system disorders 
Laryngitis 
Endocrine disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Decreased 
Appetite 
Psychiatric disorders 
Hyperglycaemia 
(reported 
especially in 
diabetic patients) 
Anaphylactic 
reaction  
Hyper-sensitivity 
disorder  
Hypo-thyroidism 
Dehydration  
Hyponatraemia  
SIADH6 
Insomnia 
Agitation  
Libido decreased  
Anxiety  
Orgasm abnormal  
Abnormal dreams  
Suicidal 
ideation5,7  
Sleep disorder  
Bruxism  
Disorientation  
Apathy  
Suicidal  
behaviour5,7  
Mania  
Hallucinations  
Aggression and 
anger4  
Nervous system disorders 
Headache  
Somnolence  
Dizziness  
Lethargy  
Tremor  
Paraesthesia 
Serotonin syndrome6  
Convulsion1  
Psychomotor 
restlessness6  
Extra-pyramidal 
symptoms6  
Myoclonus  
Akathisia7  
Nervousness  
Disturbance in 
attention  
Dysgeusia  
Dyskinesia  
Restless legs 
syndrome  
Poor quality sleep  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very common 
Eye disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Blurred vision 
Mydriasis  
Visual impairment  
Glaucoma  
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Tinnitus1  
Cardiac disorders 
Palpitations  
Vascular disorders 
Blood pressure 
increase3  
Flushing  
Vertigo  
Ear pain  
Tachycardia  
Supra-ventricular 
arrhythmia, 
mainly atrial 
fibrillation  
Syncope2  
Hypertension3,7  
Orthostatic 
hypotension2  
Peripheral 
coldness  
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Yawning 
Throat tightness  
Epistaxis  
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Nausea  
Dry mouth  
Constipation 
Diarrhoea  
Abdominal pain  
Vomiting  
Dyspepsia  
Flatulence  
Hepato-biliary disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Sweating 
increased  
Rash  
Gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage7  
Gastroenteritis  
Eructation  
Gastritis  
Dysphagia  
Hepatitis3  
Elevated liver 
enzymes (ALT, 
AST, alkaline 
phosphatase)  
Acute liver injury  
Night sweats  
Urticaria  
Dermatitis contact  
Cold sweat  
Photo-sensitivity 
reactions  
Increased 
tendency to bruise  
Hypertensive 
crisis3,6  
Interstitial lung 
disease8 
Eosinophilic 
pneumonia6 
Stomatitis  
Haematochezia  
Breath odour 
Microscopic colitis9 
Hepatic failure6 
Jaundice6  
Stevens-Johnson 
Syndrome6  
Angio-neurotic 
oedema6  
Cutaneous 
vasculitis 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Musculo-skeletal 
pain  
Muscle spasm  
Muscle tightness  
Muscle twitching  
Trismus  
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Dysuria  
Pollakiuria  
Urine odour 
abnormal  
Urinary retention  
Urinary hesitation  
Nocturia  
Polyuria  
Urine flow 
decreased  
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Erectile 
dysfunction  
Ejaculation 
disorder  
Ejaculation 
delayed  
Gynaecological 
haemorrhage  
Menstrual 
disorder  
Sexual 
dysfunction  
Testicular pain  
Menopausal 
symptoms  
Galactorrhoea  
Hyperprolactinaemia 
Postpartum 
haemorrhage6  
Falls10  
Fatigue  
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Chest pain7  
Feeling abnormal  
Feeling cold  
Thirst  
Chills  
Malaise  
Feeling hot  
Gait disturbance  
Investigations  
Weight decrease   Weight increase  
Blood creatine 
phosphokinase 
increased  
Blood potassium 
increased  
Blood cholesterol 
increased  
1 Cases of convulsion and cases of tinnitus have also been reported after treatment discontinuation.  
2 Cases of orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported especially at the initiation of treatment.  
3 See section 4.4. 
4 Cases of aggression and anger have been reported particularly early in treatment or after treatment 
discontinuation.  
5 Cases of suicidal ideation and suicidal behaviours have been reported during duloxetine therapy or early 
after treatment discontinuation (see section 4.4).  
6 Estimated frequency of post-marketing surveillance reported adverse reactions; not observed in 
placebo-controlled clinical trials.  
7 Not statistically significantly different from placebo.  
8 Estimated frequency based on placebo-controlled clinical trials.  
9 Estimated frequency based on all clinical trial data. 
10 Falls were more common in the elderly (≥65 years old). 
Description of selected adverse reactions  
Discontinuation of duloxetine (particularly when abrupt) commonly leads to withdrawal symptoms.  
Dizziness, sensory disturbances (including paraesthesia or electric shock like sensations, particularly in 
the head), sleep disturbances (including insomnia and intense dreams), fatigue, somnolence, agitation or 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
anxiety, nausea and/or vomiting, tremor, headache, myalgia, irritability, diarrhoea, hyperhydrosis and 
vertigo are the most commonly reported reactions. 
Generally, for SSRIs and SNRIs, these events are mild to moderate and self-limiting, however, in some 
patients they may be severe and/or prolonged.  It is therefore advised that when duloxetine treatment is no 
longer required, gradual discontinuation by dose tapering should be carried out (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
In the 12 week acute phase of three clinical trials of duloxetine in patients with diabetic neuropathic pain, 
small but statistically significant increases in fasting blood glucose were observed in duloxetine-treated 
patients.  HbA1c was stable in both duloxetine-treated and placebo-treated patients.  In the extension 
phase of these studies, which lasted up to 52 weeks, there was an increase in HbA1c in both the duloxetine 
and routine care groups, but the mean increase was 0.3% greater in the duloxetine-treated group.  There 
was also a small increase in fasting blood glucose and in total cholesterol in duloxetine-treated patients 
while those laboratory tests showed a slight decrease in the routine care group. 
The heart rate-corrected QT interval in duloxetine-treated patients did not differ from that seen in 
placebo treated patients.  No clinically significant differences were observed for QT, PR, QRS, or QTcB 
measurements between duloxetine-treated and placebo-treated patients. 
Paediatric population 
A total of 509 paediatric patients aged 7 to 17 years with major depressive disorder and 241 paediatric 
patients aged 7 to 17 years with generalised anxiety disorder were treated with duloxetine in clinical trials.  
In general, the adverse reaction profile of duloxetine in children and adolescents was similar to that seen 
for adults. 
A total of 467 paediatric patients initially randomized to duloxetine in clinical trials, experienced a 0.1 kg 
mean decrease in weight at 10-weeks compared with a 0.9 kg mean increase in 353 placebo-treated 
patients.  Subsequently, over the four- to six-month extension period, patients on average trended toward 
recovery to their expected baseline weight percentile based on population data from age- and 
gender-matched peers. 
In studies of up to 9 months an overall mean decrease of 1% in height percentile (decrease of 2% in 
children (7-11 years) and increase of 0.3% in adolescents (12-17 years)) was observed in duloxetine- 
treated paediatric patients (see section 4.4). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important.  It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product.  Healthcare professionals are 
asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Cases of overdoses, alone or in combination with other medicinal products, with duloxetine doses of 
5400 mg were reported.  Some fatalities have occurred, primarily with mixed overdoses, but also with 
duloxetine alone at a dose of approximately 1000 mg.  Signs and symptoms of overdose (duloxetine alone 
or in combination with other medicinal products) included somnolence, coma, serotonin syndrome, 
seizures, vomiting and tachycardia. 
No specific antidote is known for duloxetine but if serotonin syndrome ensues, specific treatment (such as 
with cyproheptadine and/or temperature control) may be considered.  A free airway should be established.  
Monitoring of cardiac and vital signs is recommended, along with appropriate symptomatic and 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
supportive measures.  Gastric lavage may be indicated if performed soon after ingestion or in symptomatic 
patients.  Activated charcoal may be useful in limiting absorption.  Duloxetine has a large volume of 
distribution and forced diuresis, haemoperfusion, and exchange perfusion are unlikely to be beneficial. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other antidepressants. ATC code: N06AX21. 
Mechanism of action  
Duloxetine is a combined serotonin (5-HT) and noradrenaline (NA) reuptake inhibitor.  It weakly inhibits 
dopamine reuptake with no significant affinity for histaminergic, dopaminergic, cholinergic and 
adrenergic receptors.  Duloxetine dose-dependently increases extracellular levels of serotonin and 
noradrenaline in various brain areas of animals. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Duloxetine normalised pain thresholds in several preclinical models of neuropathic and inflammatory pain 
and attenuated pain behaviour in a model of persistent pain. The pain inhibitory action of duloxetine is 
believed to be a result of potentiation of descending inhibitory pain pathways within the central nervous 
system. 
Clinical efficacy and safety  
Major depressive disorder 
Duloxetine was studied in a clinical programme involving 3,158 patients (1,285 patient-years of exposure) 
meeting DSM-IV criteria for major depression.  The efficacy of duloxetine at the recommended dose of 
60 mg once a day was demonstrated in three out of three randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 
fixed dose acute studies in adult outpatients with major depressive disorder.  Overall, duloxetine’s efficacy 
has been demonstrated at daily doses between 60 and 120 mg in a total of five out of seven randomised, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled, fixed dose acute studies in adult outpatients with major depressive 
disorder. 
Duloxetine demonstrated statistical superiority over placebo as measured by improvement in the 17-item 
Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) total score (including both the emotional and somatic 
symptoms of depression).  Response and remission rates were also statistically significantly higher with 
duloxetine compared with placebo.  Only a small proportion of patients included in pivotal clinical trials 
had severe depression (baseline HAM-D>25). 
In a relapse prevention study, patients responding to 12-weeks of acute treatment with open-label 
duloxetine 60 mg once daily were randomised to either duloxetine 60 mg once daily or placebo for a 
further 6-months.  Duloxetine 60 mg once daily demonstrated a statistically significant superiority 
compared to placebo (p=0.004) on the primary outcome measure, the prevention of depressive relapse, as 
measured by time to relapse.  The incidence of relapse during the 6-months double-blind follow-up period 
was 17% and 29% for duloxetine and placebo, respectively. 
During 52 weeks of placebo-controlled double blind treatment, duloxetine-treated patients with recurrent 
MDD had a significantly longer symptom free period (p<0.001) compared with patients randomised to 
placebo.  All patients had previously responded to duloxetine during open-label duloxetine treatment (28 
to 34 weeks) at a dose of 60 to 120 mg/day.  During the 52-week placebo-controlled double blind 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment phase 14.4% of the duloxetine-treated patients and 33.1% of the placebo-treated patients 
experience a return of their depressive symptoms (p<0.001). 
The effect of duloxetine 60 mg once a day in elderly depressed patients (≥65 years) was specifically 
examined in a study that showed a statistically significant difference in the reduction of the HAMD17 
score for duloxetine-treated patients compared to placebo.  Tolerability of duloxetine 60 mg once daily in 
elderly patients was comparable to that seen in the younger adults.  However, data on elderly patients 
exposed to the maximum dose (120 mg per day) are limited and thus, caution is recommended when 
treating this population. 
Generalised anxiety disorder 
Duloxetine demonstrated statistically significant superiority over placebo in five out of five studies 
including four randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled acute studies and a relapse prevention study 
in adult patients with generalised anxiety disorder. 
Duloxetine demonstrated statistically significant superiority over placebo as measured by improvement in 
the Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAM-A) total score and by the Sheehan Disability Scale (SDS) global 
functional impairment score.  Response and remission rates were also higher with duloxetine compared to 
placebo.  Duloxetine showed comparable efficacy results to venlafaxine in terms of improvements on the 
HAM-A total score. 
In a relapse prevention study, patients responding to 6 months of acute treatment with open-label 
duloxetine were randomised to either duloxetine or placebo for a further 6-months.  Duloxetine 60 mg to 
120 mg once daily demonstrated statistically significant superiority compared to placebo (p<0.001) on the 
prevention of relapse, as measured by time to relapse.  The incidence of relapse during the 6-months 
double-blind follow-up period was 14% for duloxetine and 42% for placebo. 
The efficacy of duloxetine 30-120 mg (flexible dosing) once a day in elderly patients (>65 years) with 
generalised anxiety disorder was evaluated in a study that demonstrated statistically significant 
improvement in the HAM-A total score for duloxetine treated patients compared to placebo treated 
patients.  The efficacy and safety of duloxetine 30-120 mg once daily in elderly patients with generalised 
anxiety disorder was similar to that seen in studies of younger adult patients.  However, data on elderly 
patients exposed to the maximum dose (120 mg per day) are limited and, thus, caution is recommended 
when using this dose with the elderly population. 
Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain 
The efficacy of duloxetine as a treatment for diabetic neuropathic pain was established in 2 randomised, 
12-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled, fixed dose studies in adults (22 to 88 years) having diabetic 
neuropathic pain for at least 6 months.  Patients meeting diagnostic criteria for major depressive disorder 
were excluded from these trials.  The primary outcome measure was the weekly mean of 24-hour average 
pain, which was collected in a daily diary by patients on an 11-point Likert scale. 
In both studies, duloxetine 60 mg once daily and 60 mg twice daily significantly reduced pain compared 
with placebo.  The effect in some patients was apparent in the first week of treatment.  The difference in 
mean improvement between the two active treatment arms was not significant.  At least 30% reported pain 
reduction was recorded in approximately 65% of duloxetine treated patients versus 40% for placebo.  The 
corresponding figures for at least 50% pain reduction were 50% and 26% respectively.  Clinical response 
rates (50% or greater improvement in pain) were analysed according to whether or not the patient 
experienced somnolence during treatment.  For patients not experiencing somnolence, clinical response 
was observed in 47% of patients receiving duloxetine and 27% of patients on placebo.  Clinical response 
rates in patients experiencing somnolence were 60% on duloxetine and 30% on placebo.  Patients not 
demonstrating a pain reduction of 30% within 60 days of treatment were unlikely to reach this level during 
further treatment. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In an open label long-term uncontrolled study, the pain reduction in patients responding to 8-weeks of 
acute treatment of duloxetine 60 mg once daily was maintained for a further 6-months as measured by 
change on the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) 24-hour average pain item. 
Paediatric population  
Duloxetine has not been studied in patients under the age of 7.   
Two randomized, double-blind, parallel clinical trials were performed in 800 paediatric patients aged 7 to 
17 years with major depressive disorder (see section 4.2).  These two studies included a 10 week placebo 
and active (fluoxetine) controlled acute phase followed by six months period of active controlled 
extension treatment.  Neither duloxetine (30-120 mg) nor the active control arm (fluoxetine 20-40 mg) 
statistically separated from placebo on change from baseline to endpoint in the Children´s Depression 
Rating Scale-Revised (CDRS-R) total score.  Discontinuation due to adverse events was higher in patients 
taking duloxetine compared with those treated with fluoxetine, mostly due to nausea.  During the 10-week 
acute treatment period, suicidal behaviours were reported (duloxetine 0/333 [0%], fluoxetine 2/225 
[0.9%], placebo 1/220 [0.5%]).  Over the entire 36-week course of the study, 6 out of 333 patients initially 
randomized to duloxetine and 3 out of 225 patients initially randomized to fluoxetine experienced suicidal 
behaviour (exposure adjusted incidence 0.039 events per patient year for duloxetine and 0.026 for 
fluoxetine).  In addition, one patient who transitioned from placebo to duloxetine experienced a suicidal 
behaviour while taking duloxetine. 
A randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was performed in 272 patients aged 7-17 years with 
generalised anxiety disorder.  The study included a 10 week placebo-controlled acute phase, followed by 
an 18 week extension treatment period.  A flexible dose regimen was used in this study, to allow for slow 
dose escalation from 30 mg once daily to higher doses (maximum 120 mg once daily).  Treatment with 
duloxetine showed a statistically significantly greater improvement in GAD symptoms, as measured by 
PARS severity score for GAD (mean difference between duloxetine and placebo of 2.7 points [95% CI 
1.3-4.0]), after 10 weeks of treatment.  The maintenance of the effect has not been evaluated.  There was 
no statistically significant difference in discontinuation due to adverse events between duloxetine and 
placebo groups during the 10 week acute treatment phase.  Two patients who transitioned from placebo to 
duloxetine after the acute phase experienced suicidal behaviours while taking duloxetine during the 
extension phase.  A conclusion on the overall benefit/risk in this age group has not been established (see 
also sections 4.2 and 4.8). 
A single study has been performed in paediatric patients with juvenile primary fibromyalgia syndrome 
(JPFS) in which the duloxetine-treated group did not separate from placebo group for the primary efficacy 
measure. Therefore, there is no evidence of efficacy in this paediatric patient population. The randomised, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel study of duloxetine was conducted in 184 adolescents aged 13 
to 18 years (mean age 15.53 years) with JPFS. The study included a 13-week double-blind period where 
patients were randomised to duloxetine 30 mg/60 mg, or placebo daily. Duloxetine did not show efficacy 
in reducing pain as measured by primary outcome measure of Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) average pain 
score endpoint: least squares (LS) mean change from baseline in BPI average pain score at 13 weeks was -
0.97 in the placebo group, compared with -1.62 in the duloxetine 30/60 mg group (p = 0.052). The safety 
results from this study were consistent with the known safety profile of duloxetine. 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
duloxetine in all subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of major depressive disorder, 
diabetic neuropathic pain and generalised anxiety disorder. See section 4.2 for information on paediatric 
use. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Duloxetine is administered as a single enantiomer.  Duloxetine is extensively metabolised by oxidative 
enzymes (CYP1A2 and the polymorphic CYP2D6), followed by conjugation.  The pharmacokinetics of 
duloxetine demonstrate large intersubject variability (generally 50-60%), partly due to gender, age, 
smoking status and CYP2D6 metaboliser status. 
Absorption 
Duloxetine is well absorbed after oral administration with a Cmax occurring 6 hours post dose.  The 
absolute oral bioavailability of duloxetine ranged from 32% to 80% (mean of 50%).  Food delays the time 
to reach the peak concentration from 6 to 10 hours and it marginally decreases the extent of absorption 
(approximately 11%).  These changes do not have any clinical significance. 
Distribution 
Duloxetine is approximately 96% bound to human plasma proteins.  Duloxetine binds to both albumin and 
alpha-l acid glycoprotein.  Protein binding is not affected by renal or hepatic impairment. 
Biotransformation 
Duloxetine is extensively metabolised and the metabolites are excreted principally in urine.  Both 
cytochromes P450-2D6 and 1A2 catalyse the formation of the two major metabolites glucuronide 
conjugate of 4-hydroxy duloxetine and sulfate conjugate of 5-hydroxy 6-methoxy duloxetine.  Based upon 
in vitro studies, the circulating metabolites of duloxetine are considered pharmacologically inactive.  The 
pharmacokinetics of duloxetine in patients who are poor metabolisers with respect to CYP2D6 has not 
been specifically investigated.  Limited data suggest that the plasma levels of duloxetine are higher in 
these patients. 
Elimination 
The elimination half-life of duloxetine ranges from 8 to 17 hours (mean of 12 hours).  After an 
intravenous dose the plasma clearance of duloxetine ranges from 22 l/hr to 46 l/hr (mean of 36 l/hr).  After 
an oral dose the apparent plasma clearance of duloxetine ranges from 33 to 261 l/hr (mean 101 l/hr). 
Special populations 
Gender 
Pharmacokinetic differences have been identified between males and females (apparent plasma clearance 
is approximately 50% lower in females).  Based upon the overlap in the range of clearance, gender-based 
pharmacokinetic differences do not justify the recommendation for using a lower dose for female patients. 
Age 
Pharmacokinetic differences have been identified between younger and elderly females (≥65 years) (AUC 
increases by about 25% and half-life is about 25% longer in the elderly), although the magnitude of these 
changes is not sufficient to justify adjustments to the dose.  As a general recommendation, caution should 
be exercised when treating the elderly (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Renal impairment  
End stage renal disease (ESRD) patients receiving dialysis had 2-fold higher duloxetine Cmax and AUC 
values compared with healthy subjects.  Pharmacokinetic data on duloxetine is limited in patients with 
mild or moderate renal impairment. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
Moderate liver disease (Child Pugh Class B) affected the pharmacokinetics of duloxetine.  Compared with 
healthy subjects, the apparent plasma clearance of duloxetine was 79% lower, the apparent terminal 
half-life was 2.3 times longer, and the AUC was 3.7 times higher in patients with moderate liver disease.  
The pharmacokinetics of duloxetine and its metabolites have not been studied in patients with mild or 
severe hepatic insufficiency. 
Breast-feeding mothers 
The disposition of duloxetine was studied in 6 lactating women who were at least 12-weeks postpartum.  
Duloxetine is detected in breast milk, and steady-state concentrations in breast milk are about one-fourth 
those in plasma.  The amount of duloxetine in breast milk is approximately 7 μg/day while on 40 mg twice 
daily dosing.  Lactation did not influence duloxetine pharmacokinetics. 
Paediatric population 
Pharmacokinetics  of  duloxetine in paediatric patients  aged  7 to  17 years  with major  depressive  disorder 
following oral administration of 20 to 120 mg once daily dosing regimen was characterized using population 
modelling  analyses  based  on  data  from  3  studies.    The  model-predicted  duloxetine  steady  state  plasma 
concentrations in paediatric patients were mostly within the concentration range observed in adult patients. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Duloxetine was not genotoxic in a standard battery of tests and was not carcinogenic in rats.  
Multinucleated cells were seen in the liver in the absence of other histopathological changes in the rat 
carcinogenicity study.  The underlying mechanism and the clinical relevance are unknown.  Female mice 
receiving duloxetine for 2 years had an increased incidence of hepatocellular adenomas and carcinomas at 
the high dose only (144 mg/kg/day), but these were considered to be secondary to hepatic microsomal 
enzyme induction.  The relevance of this mouse data to humans is unknown.  Female rats receiving 
duloxetine (45 mg/kg/day) before and during mating and early pregnancy had a decrease in maternal food 
consumption and body weight, oestrous cycle disruption, decreased live birth indices and progeny 
survival, and progeny growth retardation at systemic exposure levels estimated to be at the most at 
maximum clinical exposure (AUC). In an embryotoxicity study in the rabbit, a higher incidence of 
cardiovascular and skeletal malformations was observed at systemic exposure levels below the maximum 
clinical exposure (AUC).  No malformations were observed in another study testing a higher dose of a 
different salt of duloxetine.  In prenatal/postnatal toxicity studies in the rat, duloxetine induced adverse 
behavioural effects in the offspring at exposures below maximum clinical exposure (AUC). 
Studies in juvenile rats reveal transient effects on neurobehaviour, as well as significantly decreased body 
weight and food consumption; hepatic enzyme induction; and hepatocellular vacuolation at 45 mg/kg/day.  
The general toxicity profile of duloxetine in juvenile rats was similar to that in adult rats. The no-adverse 
effect level was determined to be 20 mg/kg/day. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Capsule content 
Sugar spheres (sucrose, maize starch) 
Hypromellose 
Macrogol 
Crospovidone 
Talc 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sucrose  
Hypromellose phthalate 
Diethyl phthalate 
30 mg capsules 
Capsule shell 
Brilliant blue (E133) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Gelatin 
Gold ink 
Gold ink contains 
Shellac 
Propylene glycol 
Strong ammonia solution 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
60 mg capsules 
Capsule shell 
Brilliant blue (E133) 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Gelatin 
White ink 
White ink contains 
Shellac 
Propylene glycol 
Sodium hydroxide 
Povidone 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Blister packs PVC/PCTFE/Alu or PVC/PE/PVdC/Alu: 2 years.  
Blister packs OPA/Alu/PVC – Alu: 3 years. 
Bottle packs: 3 years. 
Bottle packs only: 
Once opened, use within 180 days. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
30 mg capsules 
PVC/PCTFE/Aluminium or OPA/Aluminium/PVC – Aluminium blister pack containing 7, 14, 28, 98 and 
multipacks containing 98 (2 packs of 49) hard gastro-resistant capsules. 
PVC/PE/PVdC/Aluminium blister pack containing 7, 14, 28, 49, 98 and multipacks containing 98 (2 
packs of 49) hard gastro-resistant capsules. 
PVC/PCTFE/Aluminium or OPA/Aluminium/PVC – Aluminium perforated unit dose blister pack 
containing 7 x 1, 28 x 1 and 30 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules.  
PVC/PE/PVdC/Aluminium perforated unit dose blister pack containing 7 x 1 and 28 x 1 hard 
gastro-resistant capsules. 
HDPE bottle pack, with desiccant, containing 30, 100, 250 and 500 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
60 mg capsules 
PVC/PCTFE/Aluminium or OPA/Aluminium/PVC – Aluminium blister pack containing 14, 28, 84, 98 
and multipacks containing 98 (2 packs of 49) hard gastro-resistant capsules. 
PVC/PE/PVdC/Aluminium blister pack containing 14, 28, 49, 98 and multipacks containing 98 (2 packs 
of 49) hard gastro-resistant capsules. 
PVC/PCTFE/Aluminium or OPA/Aluminium/PVC – Aluminium perforated unit dose blister pack 
containing 28 x 1, 30 x 1 and 100 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
PVC/PE/PVdC/Aluminium perforated unit dose blister pack containing 28 x 1 hard gastro-resistant 
capsules. 
HDPE bottle pack, with desiccant, containing 30, 100, 250 and 500 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
Not all packs sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
No special requirements for disposal. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
30 mg capsules 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EU/1/15/1010/001 7 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/002 28 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/003 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/004 7 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/005 28 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/006 30 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/007 30 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/008 100 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/009 250 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/010 500 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/021 14 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/022 7 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/023 14 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/024 28 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/025 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/026 7 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/027 28 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules) 
EU/1/15/1010/028 30 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/037 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules (2 packs of 49) 
EU/1/15/1010/038 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules (2 packs of 49) 
EU/1/15/1010/041 7 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/042 7 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/043 14 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/044 28 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/045 28 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/046 49 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/047 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/048 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules (2 packs of 49) 
60 mg capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/011 28 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/012 84 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/013 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/014 28 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/015 30 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/016 100 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/017 30 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/018 100 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/019 250 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/020 500 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/029 28 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/030 84 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/031 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/032 28 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/033 30 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/034 100 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/035 14 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/036 14 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/039 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules (2 packs of 49) 
EU/1/15/1010/040 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules (2 packs of 49) 
EU/1/15/1010/049 14 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
EU/1/15/1010/050 28 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/051 28 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/052 49 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/053 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/054 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules (2 packs of 49) 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 19 June 2015 
Date of latest renewal: 13 February 2020 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B. 
C. 
D. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
McDermott Laboratories Ltd t/a Gerard Laboratories t/a Mylan Dublin 
Unit 35/36 Baldoyle Industrial Estate 
Grange Road 
Dublin 13 
Ireland 
Mylan Hungary Kft 
Mylan utca 1 
Komárom 
2900 
Hungary 
Mylan Germany GmbH 
Zweigniederlassung Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe, Benzstrasse 1 
Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe 
Hessen, 61352,  
Germany 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the manufacturer 
responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
C.  
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE 
D. 
USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BLISTER CARTON FOR 30 MG HARD GASTRO RESISTANT CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Mylan 30 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
duloxetine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each capsule contains 30 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sucrose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard gastro-resistant capsules 
7 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
14 hard gastro-resistant capsules  
28 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
49 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
98 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
7 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
28 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
30 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1010/001 7 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/002 28 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/003 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/004 7 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/005 28 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/006 30 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/021 14 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/022 7 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/023 14 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/024 28 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/025 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/026 7 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/027 28 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/028 30 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/041 7 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/042 7 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/043 14 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/044 28 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/045 28 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/046 49 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/047 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Duloxetine Mylan 30 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BLISTER OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK FOR 30 MG HARD GASTRO RESISTANT 
CAPSULES, WITH BLUE BOX 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Mylan 30 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
duloxetine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each capsule contains 30 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sucrose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard gastro-resistant capsules 
Multipack: 98 (2 packs of 49) hard gastro-resistant capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1010/037 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules (2 packs of 49) 
EU/1/15/1010/038 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules (2 packs of 49) 
EU/1/15/1010/048 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules (2 packs of 49) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Duloxetine Mylan 30 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BLISTER INNER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK FOR 30 MG HARD GASTRO RESISTANT 
CAPSULES, WITHOUT BLUE BOX 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Mylan 30 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
duloxetine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each capsule contains 30 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sucrose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard gastro-resistant capsules 
49 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1010/037 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules (2 packs of 49) 
EU/1/15/1010/038 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules (2 packs of 49) 
EU/1/15/1010/048 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules (2 packs of 49) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER FOR 30 MG HARD GASTRO RESISTANT CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Mylan 30 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
duloxetine 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BOTTLE CARTON FOR 30 MG HARD GASTRO RESISTANT CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Mylan 30 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
duloxetine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each capsule contains 30 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sucrose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard gastro-resistant capsules 
30 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
100 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
250 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
500 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use within 6 months after opening. 
Opening date:………… 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1010/007 30 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/008 100 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/009 250 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/010 500 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Duloxetine Mylan 30 mg 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL FOR 30 MG HARD GASTRO RESISTANT CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Mylan 30 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
duloxetine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each capsule contains 30 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sucrose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard gastro-resistant capsules 
30 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
100 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
250 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
500 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use within 6 months after opening. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1010/007 30 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/008 100 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/009 250 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/010 500 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BLISTER CARTON FOR 60 MG HARD GASTRO RESISTANT CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Mylan 60 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
duloxetine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each capsule contains 60 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sucrose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard gastro-resistant capsules 
14 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
28 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
49 hard gastro-resistant capsules  
84 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
98 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
28 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
30 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
100 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1010/011 28 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/012 84 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/013 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/014 28 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/015 30 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/016 100 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/029 28 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/030 84 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/031 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/032 28 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/033 30 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/034 100 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/035 14 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/036 14 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/049 14 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/050 28 hard gastro-resistant capsules) 
EU/1/15/1010/051 28 x 1 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/052 49 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/053 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Duloxetine Mylan 60 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BLISTER OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK FOR 60 MG HARD GASTRO RESISTANT 
CAPSULES, WITH BLUE BOX 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Mylan 60 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
duloxetine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each capsule contains 60 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sucrose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard gastro-resistant capsules 
Multipack: 98 (2 packs of 49) hard gastro-resistant capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1010/039 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules (2 packs of 49) 
EU/1/15/1010/040 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules (2 packs of 49) 
EU/1/15/1010/054 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules (2 packs of 49) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Duloxetine Mylan 60 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BLISTER INNER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK FOR 60 MG HARD GASTRO RESISTANT 
CAPSULES, WITHOUT BLUE BOX 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Mylan 60 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
duloxetine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each capsule contains 60 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sucrose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard gastro-resistant capsules 
49 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1010/039 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules (2 packs of 49) 
EU/1/15/1010/040 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules (2 packs of 49) 
EU/1/15/1010/054 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules (2 packs of 49) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER FOR 60 MG HARD GASTRO RESISTANT CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Mylan 60 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
duloxetine 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
BOTTLE CARTON FOR 60 MG HARD GASTRO RESISTANT CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Mylan 60 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
duloxetine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each capsule contains 60 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sucrose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard gastro-resistant capsules 
30 hard gastro-resistant capsules  
100 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
250 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
500 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use within 6 months after opening. 
Opening date:………… 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1010/017 30 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/018 100 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/019 250 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/020 500 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Duloxetine Mylan 60 mg 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL FOR 60 MG HARD GASTRO RESISTANT CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Mylan 60 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
duloxetine 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each capsule contains 60 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sucrose. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard gastro-resistant capsules 
30 hard gastro-resistant capsules  
100 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
250 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
500 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use within 6 months after opening. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/15/1010/017 30 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/018 100 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/019 250 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
EU/1/15/1010/020 500 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Duloxetine Mylan 30 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
Duloxetine Mylan 60 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
duloxetine 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only.  Do not pass it on to others.  It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor or pharmacist.  This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet.  See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Duloxetine Mylan is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Duloxetine Mylan 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Duloxetine Mylan 
Possible side effects 
How to store Duloxetine Mylan 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Duloxetine Mylan is and what it is used for 
Duloxetine Mylan contains the active substance duloxetine.  Duloxetine Mylan increases the levels of 
serotonin and noradrenaline in the nervous system. 
Duloxetine Mylan is used in adults to treat: 
• 
• 
• 
depression 
generalised anxiety disorder (chronic feeling of anxiety or nervousness) 
diabetic neuropathic pain (often described as burning, stabbing, stinging, shooting or aching or like 
an electric shock. There may be loss of feeling in the affected area, or sensations such as touch, 
heat, cold or pressure may cause pain) 
Duloxetine Mylan starts to work in most people with depression or anxiety within two weeks of starting 
treatment, but it may take 2-4 weeks before you feel better.  Tell your doctor if you do not start to feel 
better after this time.  Your doctor may continue to give you Duloxetine Mylan when you are feeling 
better to prevent your depression or anxiety from returning. 
In people with diabetic neuropathic pain it can take some weeks before you feel better.  Talk to your 
doctor if you do not feel better after 2 months. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Duloxetine Mylan 
Do not take Duloxetine Mylan if you: 
- 
- 
- 
are allergic to duloxetine or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6) 
have liver disease 
have severe kidney disease 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
are taking or have taken within the last 14 days, another medicine known as a monoamine oxidase 
inhibitor (MAOI) (see ‘Other medicines and Duloxetine Mylan’) 
are taking fluvoxamine which is usually used to treat depression, ciprofloxacin or enoxacin which 
are used to treat some infections 
are taking other medicines containing duloxetine (see ‘Other medicines and Duloxetine Mylan’) 
Talk to your doctor if you have high blood pressure or heart disease.  Your doctor will tell you if you 
should be taking Duloxetine Mylan. 
Warnings and precautions 
The following are reasons why Duloxetine Mylan may not be suitable for you.  Talk to your doctor before 
you take Duloxetine Mylan if you: 
- 
are taking other medicines to treat depression or medicines known as opioids that are used to relieve 
pain or to treat opioid (narcotic) addiction. 
The use of these medicines together with Duloxetine Mylan can lead to serotonin syndrome, a 
potentially life-threatening condition (see “Other medicines and Duloxetine Mylan”). 
are taking St. John’s Wort, a herbal treatment (Hypericum perforatum) 
have kidney disease 
have had seizures (fits) 
have had mania 
suffer from bipolar disorder 
have eye problems, such as certain kinds of glaucoma (increased pressure in the eye) 
have a history of bleeding disorders (tendency to develop bruises), especially if you are pregnant 
(see ‘Pregnancy and breast-feeding) 
are at risk of low sodium levels (for example if you are taking diuretics, especially if you are 
elderly) 
are currently being treated with another medicine which may cause liver damage 
are taking other medicines containing duloxetine (see ‘Other medicines and Duloxetine Mylan’) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Duloxetine Mylan may cause a sensation of restlessness or an inability to sit or stand still.  You should tell 
your doctor if this happens to you. 
Medicines like Duloxetine Mylan  (so called SSRIs/SNRIs) may cause symptoms of sexual dysfunction 
(see section 4). In some cases, these symptoms have continued after stopping treatment. 
Thoughts of suicide and worsening of your depression or anxiety disorder 
If you are depressed and/or have anxiety disorders you can sometimes have thoughts of harming or killing 
yourself.  These may be increased when first starting antidepressants, since these medicines all take time 
to work, usually about two weeks but sometimes longer. 
You may be more likely to think like this if you: 
- 
- 
have previously had thoughts about killing or harming yourself 
are a young adult. Information from clinical trials has shown an increased risk of suicidal behaviour 
in adults aged less than 25 years with psychiatric conditions who were treated with an 
antidepressant 
If you have thoughts of harming or killing yourself at any time, contact your doctor or go to a 
hospital straight away. 
You may find it helpful to tell a relative or close friend that you are depressed or have an anxiety disorder, 
and ask them to read this leaflet.  You might ask them to tell you if they think your depression or anxiety 
is getting worse, or if they are worried about changes in your behaviour. 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents under 18 years of age 
Duloxetine Mylan should normally not be used for children and adolescents under 18 years.  Also, you 
should know that patients under 18 have an increased risk of side-effects such as suicide attempt, suicidal 
thoughts and hostility (predominantly aggression, oppositional behaviour and anger) when they take this 
class of medicines.  Despite this, your doctor may prescribe Duloxetine Mylan for patients under 18 
because he/she decides that this is in their best interests.  If your doctor has prescribed Duloxetine Mylan 
for a patient under 18 and you want to discuss this, please go back to your doctor.  You should inform 
your doctor if any of the symptoms listed above develop or worsen when patients under 18 are taking 
Duloxetine Mylan.  Also, the long-term safety effects concerning growth, maturation, and cognitive and 
behavioural development of Duloxetine Mylan in this age group have not yet been demonstrated. 
Other medicines and Duloxetine Mylan 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines, 
including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
The main ingredient of Duloxetine Mylan, duloxetine, is used in other medicines for other conditions: 
• 
diabetic neuropathic pain, depression, anxiety and urinary incontinence 
Using more than one of these medicines at the same time should be avoided.  Check with your doctor if 
you are already taking other medicines containing duloxetine. 
Your doctor should decide whether you can take Duloxetine Mylan with other medicines.  Do not start or 
stop taking any medicines, including those bought without a prescription and herbal remedies, 
before checking with your doctor. 
You should also tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following: 
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs): You should not take Duloxetine Mylan if you are taking, or 
have recently taken (within the last 14 days) another antidepressant medicine called a monoamine oxidase 
inhibitor (MAOI).  Examples of MAOIs include moclobemide (an antidepressant) and linezolid (an 
antibiotic). Taking a MAOI together with many prescription medicines, including Duloxetine Mylan, can 
cause serious or even life-threatening side effects.  You must wait at least 14 days after you have stopped 
taking an MAOI before you can take Duloxetine Mylan.  Also, you need to wait at least 5 days after you 
stop taking Duloxetine Mylan before you take a MAOI. 
Medicines that cause sleepiness: These include medicines prescribed by your doctor including 
benzodiazepines, strong painkillers, antipsychotics, phenobarbital and antihistamines. 
Medicines that increase the level of serotonin: Triptans, tryptophan, SSRIs (such as paroxetine and 
fluoxetine), SNRIs (such as venlafaxine), tricyclic antidepressants (such as clomipramine, amitriptyline),  
St John’s Wort, MAOIs (such as moclobemide and linezolid), opioids (such as buprenorphine, tramadol 
and pethidine).  These medicines may interact with Duloxetine Mylan and you may experience symptoms 
such as involuntary, rhythmic contractions of muscles, including the muscles that control movement of the 
eye, agitation, hallucinations, coma, excessive sweating, tremor, exaggeration of reflexes, increased 
muscle tension, body temperature above 38°C. Contact your doctor when experiencing such symptoms, as 
these might indicate a potentially life-threatening condition known as serotonin syndrome. 
Oral anticoagulants or antiplatelet agents: Medicines which thin the blood or prevent the blood from 
clotting.  These medicines might increase the risk of bleeding. 
Duloxetine Mylan with food, drink and alcohol 
Duloxetine Mylan may be taken with or without food.  Care should be taken if you drink alcohol while 
you are being treated with Duloxetine Mylan. 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your 
doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if you become pregnant, or you are trying to become pregnant, while you are 
taking Duloxetine Mylan.  You should use Duloxetine Mylan only after discussing the potential 
benefits and any potential risks to your unborn child with your doctor. 
Make sure your midwife and/or doctor knows you are on Duloxetine Mylan.  When taken during 
pregnancy, similar drugs (SSRIs) may increase the risk of a serious condition in babies, called 
persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN), making the baby breathe faster and 
appear bluish.  These symptoms usually begin during the first 24 hours after the baby is born.  If 
this happens to your baby you should contact your midwife and/or doctor immediately. 
If you take Duloxetine Mylan near the end of your pregnancy, your baby might have some 
symptoms when it is born.  These usually begin at birth or within a few days of your baby being 
born.  These symptoms may include floppy muscles, trembling, jitteriness, not feeding properly, 
trouble with breathing and fits.  If your baby has any of these symptoms when it is born, or you are 
concerned about your baby’s health, contact your doctor or midwife who will be able to advise you. 
If you take Duloxetine Mylan near the end of your pregnancy there is an increased risk of excessive 
vaginal bleeding shortly after birth, especially if you have a history of bleeding disorders. Your 
doctor or midwife should be aware that you are taking duloxetine so they can advise you. 
Available data from the use of duloxetine during the first three months of pregnancy do not show an 
increased risk of overall birth defects in general in the child. If Duloxetine Mylan is taken during 
the second half of pregnancy, there may be an increased risk that the infant will be born early 
(6 additional premature infants for every 100 women who take duloxetine in the second half of 
pregnancy), mostly between weeks 35 and 36 of pregnancy. 
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding.  The use of Duloxetine Mylan while breast-feeding is not 
recommended.  You should ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice. 
Driving and using machines 
Duloxetine Mylan may make you feel sleepy or dizzy.  Do not drive or use any tools or machines until 
you know how Duloxetine Mylan affects you. 
Duloxetine Mylan contains sucrose and sodium 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicinal product. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’. 
3. 
How to take Duloxetine Mylan 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you.  Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Duloxetine Mylan is for oral use. You should swallow your capsule whole with a drink of water. 
For depression and diabetic neuropathic pain: 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The usual dose of Duloxetine Mylan is 60 mg once a day, but your doctor will prescribe the dose that is 
right for you. 
For generalised anxiety disorder:  
The usual starting dose of Duloxetine Mylan is 30 mg once a day after which most patients will receive 
60 mg once a day, but your doctor will prescribe the dose that is right for you.  The dose may be adjusted 
up to 120 mg a day based on your response to Duloxetine Mylan. 
To help you remember to take Duloxetine Mylan, you may find it easier to take it at the same times every 
day. 
Talk with your doctor about how long you should keep taking Duloxetine Mylan.  Do not stop taking 
Duloxetine Mylan, or change your dose, without talking to your doctor.  Treating your disorder properly is 
important to help you get better.  If it is not treated, your condition may not go away and may become 
more serious and difficult to treat. 
If you take more Duloxetine Mylan than you should 
Call your doctor or pharmacist immediately if you take more than the amount of Duloxetine Mylan 
prescribed by your doctor.  Symptoms of overdose include sleepiness, coma, serotonin syndrome (a rare 
reaction which may cause feelings of great happiness, drowsiness, clumsiness, restlessness, feeling of 
being drunk, fever, sweating or rigid muscles), fits, vomiting and fast heart rate. 
If you forget to take Duloxetine Mylan 
If you miss a dose, take it as soon as you remember.  However, if it is time for your next dose, skip the 
missed dose and take only a single dose as usual.  Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten 
dose.  Do not take more than the daily amount of Duloxetine Mylan that has been prescribed for you in 
one day. 
If you stop taking Duloxetine Mylan 
DO NOT stop taking your capsules without the advice of your doctor even if you feel better.  If your 
doctor thinks that you no longer need Duloxetine Mylan he or she will ask you to reduce your dose over at 
least 2 weeks before stopping treatment altogether. 
Some patients who stop taking Duloxetine Mylan suddenly have had symptoms such as: 
• 
dizziness, tingling feelings like pins and needles or electric shock like feelings (particularly in the 
head), sleep disturbances (vivid dreams, nightmares, inability to sleep), fatigue, sleepiness, feeling 
restless or agitated, feeling anxious, feeling sick (nausea) or being sick (vomiting), shaking 
(tremor), headaches, muscle pain, feeling irritable, diarrhoea, excessive sweating or vertigo. 
These symptoms are usually not serious and disappear within a few days, but if you have symptoms that 
are troublesome you should ask your doctor for advice. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  These effects 
are normally mild to moderate and often disappear after a few weeks. 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
headache, feeling sleepy 
feeling sick (nausea), dry mouth 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
lack of appetite 
trouble sleeping, feeling agitated, less sex drive, anxiety, difficulty or failure to experience orgasm, 
unusual dreams 
dizziness, feeling sluggish, tremor, numbness, including numbness, pricking or tingling of the skin 
blurred eyesight 
tinnitus (hearing sound in the ear when there is no external sound) 
feeling the heart pumping in the chest, 
increased blood pressure, flushing 
increased yawning 
constipation, diarrhoea, stomach pain, being sick (vomiting), heartburn or indigestion, breaking 
wind 
increased sweating, (itchy) rash 
muscle pain, muscle spasm 
painful urination, frequent urination 
problems getting an erection, changes in ejaculation 
falls (mostly in elderly people), fatigue  
weight loss 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Children and adolescents under 18 years of age with depression treated with this medicine had some 
weight loss when they first start taking this medicine.  Weight increased to match other children and 
adolescents of their age and sex after 6 months of treatment. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
throat inflammation that causes a hoarse voice 
• 
suicidal thoughts, difficulty sleeping, grinding or clenching the teeth, feeling disorientated, lack of 
motivation 
sudden involuntary jerks or twitches of the muscles, sensation of restlessness or an inability to sit or 
stand still, feeling nervous, difficulty concentrating, changes in sense of taste, difficulty controlling 
movement e.g. lack of coordination or involuntary movements of the muscles, restless legs 
syndrome, poor sleep quality 
large pupils (the dark centre of the eye), problems with eyesight 
feeling of dizziness or “spinning” (vertigo), ear pain 
fast and/or irregular heart beat 
fainting, dizziness, lightheadedness or fainting on standing up, cold fingers and/or toes 
throat tightness, nose bleeds 
vomiting blood, or black tarry stools (faeces), gastroenteritis, burping, difficulty swallowing 
inflammation of the liver that may cause abdominal pain and yellowing of the skin or whites of the 
eyes 
night sweats, hives, cold sweats, sensitivity to sunlight, increased tendency to bruise 
muscle tightness, muscle twitching 
difficulty or inability to pass urine, difficulty to start urinating, needing to pass urine during the 
night, needing to pass more urine than normal, having a decreased urine flow 
abnormal vaginal bleeding, abnormal periods, including heavy, painful, irregular or prolonged 
periods, unusually light or missed periods, sexual dysfunction, pain in the testicles or scrotum 
chest pain, feeling cold, thirst, shivering, feeling hot, abnormal gait 
weight gain 
Duloxetine Mylan may cause effects that you may not be aware of, such as increases in liver 
enzymes or blood levels of potassium, creatine phosphokinase, sugar, or cholesterol 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
serious allergic reaction which causes difficulty in breathing or dizziness with swollen tongue or 
lips, allergic reactions 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
decreased thyroid gland activity which can cause tiredness or weight gain 
dehydration, low levels of sodium in the blood (mostly in elderly people; the symptoms may 
include feeling dizzy, weak, confused, sleepy or very tired, or feeling or being sick, more serious 
symptoms are fainting, fits or falls), syndrome of inappropriate secretion of anti-diuretic hormone 
(SIADH) 
suicidal behaviour, mania (over activity, racing thoughts and decreased need for sleep), 
hallucinations, aggression and anger 
“Serotonin syndrome” (a rare reaction which may cause feelings of great happiness, drowsiness, 
clumsiness, restlessness, feeling of being drunk, fever, sweating or rigid muscles), fits 
increased pressure in the eye (glaucoma) 
inflammation of the mouth, passing bright red blood in your stools, bad breath, inflammation of the 
large intestine (leading to diarrhoea) 
liver failure, yellowing of the skin or whites of the eyes (jaundice) 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (serious illness with blistering of the skin, mouth, eyes and genitals), 
serious allergic reaction which causes swelling of the face or throat (angioedema) 
contraction of the jaw muscle 
abnormal urine odour 
menopausal symptoms, abnormal production of breast milk in men or women 
coughing, wheezing and shortness of breath which may be accompanied by a high temperature  
excessive vaginal bleeding shortly after birth (postpartum haemorrhage) 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
• 
inflammation of the blood vessels in the skin (cutaneous vasculitis) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist.  This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet.  You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V.  By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store Duloxetine Mylan 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
Bottle packs only:  
Use within 6 months of opening. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste.  Ask your pharmacist how to throw 
away medicines you no longer use.  These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Duloxetine Mylan contains 
The active substance is duloxetine. 
Each capsule contains 30 mg or 60 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride). 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The other ingredients are: 
Capsule content: Sugar spheres (sucrose, maize starch), hypromellose, Macrogol, Crospovidone, talc, 
sucrose, hypromellose phthalate, diethyl phthalate. 
Capsule shell: Brilliant blue (E133), yellow iron oxide (E172) (60 mg only), titanium dioxide (E171), 
gelatin and edible gold ink (30 mg only) or edible white ink (60 mg only). 
Edible gold ink: shellac, propylene glycol, strong ammonia solution, yellow iron oxide (E172). 
Edible white ink: shellac, propylene glycol, sodium hydroxide, povidone, titanium dioxide (E171). 
What Duloxetine Mylan looks like and contents of the pack 
Duloxetine Mylan is hard gastro-resistant capsule.  Each capsule of Duloxetine Mylan contains pellets of 
duloxetine hydrochloride with a covering to protect them from stomach acid.   
Duloxetine Mylan is available in 2 strengths: 30 mg and 60 mg. 
The 30 mg capsules have an opaque blue cap and opaque white body, imprinted in gold ink with 
‘MYLAN’ over ‘DL 30’ on both the cap and the body. 
The 60 mg capsules have an opaque blue cap and opaque yellow body, imprinted in white ink with 
‘MYLAN’ over ‘DL 60’ on both the cap and the body. 
Duloxetine Mylan 30 mg is available in blister packs of 7, 14, 28, 49, 98 and in a multipack of 98 
comprising 2 cartons, each containing 49 capsules, in perforated blister packs containing 7 x1, 28 x 1, 30 x 
1 capsules and in bottles containing 30, 100, 250, 500 capsules and a desiccant.  Do not eat the desiccant. 
Duloxetine Mylan 60 mg is available in blister packs of 14, 28, 49, 84, 98 and in a multipack of 98 
comprising 2 cartons, each containing 49 capsules, in perforated blister packs containing 28 x 1, 30 x 1, 
and 100 x 1capsules and bottles containing 30, 100, 250 and 500 capsules and a desiccant. Do not eat the 
desiccant. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.   
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited, Damastown Industrial Park, Mulhuddart, Dublin 15, DUBLIN, Ireland 
Manufacturers 
McDermott Laboratories Limited t/a Gerard Laboratories t/a Mylan Dublin, Unit 35/36 Baldoyle 
Industrial Estate, Grange Road, Dublin 13, Ireland 
Mylan Hungary Kft., Mylan utca 1, Komárom 2900, Hungary 
Mylan Germany GmbH, Zweigniederlassung Bad Homburg v. d. Hoehe, Benzstrasse 1, Bad Homburg v. 
d. Hoehe, Hessen, 61352, Germany  
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any further information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Mylan bvba/sprl 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
България 
Майлан ЕООД 
Тел: +359 2 44 55 400 
Česká republika 
Viatris CZ s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 222 004 400 
Danmark 
Viatris ApS 
Tlf: +45 28 11 69 32 
Deutschland 
Viatris Healthcare GmbH 
Tel: +49 800 0700 800 
Eesti 
BGP Products Switzerland GmbH Eesti 
filiaal  
Tel: +372 6363 052 
Ελλάδα  
Viatris Hellas Ltd  
Τηλ: +30 2100 100 002 
España 
Viatris Pharmaceuticals, S.L.U. 
Tel: + 34 900 102 712 
France 
Viatris Santé 
Tél: +33 4 37 25 75 00 
Hrvatska 
ViatrisHrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 23 50 599 
Lietuva 
Mylan Healthcare UAB  
Tel:  +370 5 205 1288 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Mylan bvba/sprl 
Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
(Belgique/Belgien) 
Magyarország 
Viatris Healthcare Kft. 
Tel.: + 36 1 465 2100 
Malta 
V.J. Salomone Pharma Ltd. 
Tel: + 356 21 22 01 74 
Nederland 
Mylan BV 
Tel: +31 (0)20 426 3300 
Norge 
Viatris AS 
Tlf: +47 66 75 33 00 
Österreich 
Arcana Arzneimittel GmbH 
Tel.: +43 1 416 2418 
Polska 
Mylan Healthcare Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: + 48 22 546 64 00 
Portugal 
Mylan, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 214 127 200 
România 
BGP Products SRL 
Tel: + 4 0372 579 000 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ireland 
Mylan Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 8711600 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Mylan Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 02 612 46921 
Κύπρος 
Varnavas Hadjipanayis Ltd  
Τηλ: +357 2220 7700 
Latvija 
Mylan Healthcare SIA 
Tel: + 371 676 055 80 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Slovenija 
Viatris d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 1 23 63 180 
Slovenská republika 
Viatris Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 32 199 100 
Suomi/Finland 
Viatris Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 20 720 9555 
Sverige 
Viatris AB  
Tel: + 46 (0)8 630 19 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Mylan IRE Healthcare Limited 
Tel: +353 18711600 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
