EMA/434593/2015 
EMEA/H/C/003935 
EPAR summary for the public 
Duloxetine Zentiva 
duloxetine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Duloxetine Zentiva. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Duloxetine Zentiva. 
For practical information about using Duloxetine Zentiva, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Duloxetine Zentiva and what is it used for? 
Duloxetine Zentiva is used to treat adults with the following diseases: 
  major depression; 
 
pain due to diabetic peripheral neuropathy (damage to the nerves in the feet, legs, hands and 
arms that can occur in patients with diabetes); 
 
generalised anxiety disorder (long-term anxiety or nervousness about everyday matters). 
Duloxetine Zentiva contains the active substance duloxetine and is is a ‘generic medicine’. This means 
that Duloxetine Zentiva is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union 
(EU) called Cymbalta. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer 
document here. 
How is Duloxetine Zentiva used? 
Duloxetine Zentiva is available as gastroresistant capsules (30 and 60 mg). ‘Gastroresistant’ means 
that the capsules’ contents pass through the stomach without being broken down until they reach the 
intestine. This prevents the active substance being destroyed by the acid in the stomach. The medicine 
can only be obtained with a prescription. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
For major depression, the recommended dose of Duloxetine Zentiva is 60 mg once a day. A response 
is usually seen in two to four weeks. In patients who respond to Duloxetine Zentiva, treatment should 
continue for several months to prevent the disease coming back, or for longer in patients who have 
had repeated periods of depression in the past. 
For diabetic neuropathic pain, the recommended dose is 60 mg per day but some patients may need a 
higher dose of up to 120 mg per day. The response to treatment should be assessed regularly. 
For generalised anxiety disorder, the recommended starting dose is 30 mg once a day, but the dose 
can be increased to 60, 90 or 120 mg depending on the patient’s response. Most patients will need to 
take 60 mg per day. Patients who also have major depression should start with 60 mg once a day. In 
patients who respond to Duloxetine Zentiva, treatment should continue for several months, to prevent 
the disorder coming back. 
The dose of Duloxetine Zentiva should be reduced gradually when stopping treatment. 
How does Duloxetine Zentiva work? 
The active substance in this medicine, duloxetine, is a serotonin-noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor. It 
works by preventing the neurotransmitters serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) and noradrenaline from 
being taken back up into nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord. 
Neurotransmitters are chemicals that allow nerve cells to communicate with one another. By blocking 
their re-uptake, duloxetine increases the amount of these neurotransmitters in the spaces between 
nerve cells, increasing the level of communication between the cells. Since these neurotransmitters are 
involved in maintaining mood and reducing the sensation of pain, blocking their re-uptake into nerve 
cells can improve the symptoms of depression, anxiety and neuropathic pain. 
How has Duloxetine Zentiva been studied? 
Because Duloxetine Zentiva is a generic medicine of Cymbalta, its benefits and risks are taken as being 
the same as the reference medicine’s. 
What are the benefits and risks of Duloxetine Zentiva? 
Because Duloxetine Zentiva is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Duloxetine Zentiva approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Duloxetine Zentiva has been shown to have comparable quality to Cymbalta and 
to be bioequivalent to Cymbalta. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Cymbalta, the benefit 
outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Duloxetine Zentiva be approved for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Duloxetine Zentiva? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Duloxetine Zentiva is used as safely as 
possible. Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet for Duloxetine Zentiva, including the appropriate precautions to 
be followed by healthcare professionals and patients. 
Duloxetine Zentiva  
EMA/434593/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Duloxetine Zentiva 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Duloxetine Zentiva on 20 August 2015. 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Duloxetine Zentiva can be found on the 
Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment 
reports. For more information about treatment with Duloxetine Zentiva, read the package leaflet (also 
part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2015. 
Duloxetine Zentiva  
EMA/434593/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
