EMA/450483/2015 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Duloxetine Zentiva (duloxetine) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Duloxetine Zentiva, which details the 
measures to be taken in order to ensure that Duloxetine Zentiva is used as safely as possible. For 
more information on RMP summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Duloxetine Zentiva which can be found on Duloxetine Zentiva’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Duloxetine Zentiva is used to treat adults with major depression, pain due to diabetic peripheral 
neuropathy, or generalised anxiety disorder. 
Major depressive disorder 
Major depressive disorder or major depression is a disease where a person has persistent low mood or 
loss of interest in things they used to enjoy. In addition the person may experience loss of energy or 
changes in appetite and sleep. 
Estimates in various countries across the world (Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, 
Spain, and the United States) suggest that approximately 17.5% of people have major depressive 
disorder. 
Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain 
Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain is pain that results from damage to nerve endings in the 
extremities and is caused by diabetes. 
Approximately 16% to 26% of people with diabetes have diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain. 
Generalised anxiety disorder 
Generalised anxiety disorder is long-term anxiety or nervousness about everyday matters. The cause 
of generalised anxiety disorder is not clear although it is believed to be related to both genetic factors 
and life experiences. 
The number of people affected by this condition varies between different countries and cultures. 
Regardless of geography, however, women are more likely to be affected than men. There also appear 
to be more cases of generalised anxiety disorder among older people up until the age of 60, when the 
number of cases begins to decline. Among those aged 18 to 64 years, it is estimated that 6.2% (7.7% 
of women and 4.6% of men) will have generalised anxiety disorder over their lifetimes. 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Duloxetine Zentiva contains the active substance duloxetine. It is available as capsules (30 and 60 mg) 
and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in 
the European Union (EU) called Cymbalta.  
Page 1/5 
 
 
 
Because Duloxetine Zentiva is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same 
as the reference medicine’s. Studies in people have been limited to tests to determine that it is 
bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Cymbalta. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they 
produce the same levels of the active substance in the body.  
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
Duloxetine Zentiva should not be used in patients under 18 years old. Duloxetine has not been studied 
in patients under the age of 7. In children with depression aged 7 to 17 years, two studies carried out 
in 800 patients showed an increased risk of side effects such as suicide attempt, suicidal thoughts and 
hostility (predominantly aggression, oppositional behaviour and anger). 
Duloxetine has not been studied in children for the treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain or 
generalised anxiety disorder. Moreover, long-term safety data in children and adolescents concerning 
growth, maturation and cognitive and behavioural development are lacking. 
The safety of duloxetine in infants is not known. Therefore, the use of Duloxetine Zentiva while 
breastfeeding is not recommended. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Suicide attempts 
People with depression and/or anxiety 
Patients should be closely monitored 
and thoughts about 
disorders may have thoughts of 
until an improvement occurs. 
committing suicide 
harming or killing themselves. The 
Improvement may not occur during the 
(suicidality) 
risk may be increased when first 
first few weeks or more of treatment 
starting antidepressants or when 
with Duloxetine Zentiva. 
treatment is discontinued. Suicide 
attempts and thoughts about 
committing suicide are uncommon 
and may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
given the medicine. 
Patients are advised to tell their doctor 
if they do not feel better after 4 weeks 
of treatment. If they have thoughts of 
harming or killing themselves at any 
time, they should contact their doctor 
Duloxetine Zentiva should not be 
or go to a hospital straight away. 
used in children and adolescents 
under 18 years. Patients under 18 
years of age who take medicines such 
as duloxetine are at an increased risk 
of side effects, such as suicide 
attempt, suicidal thoughts and 
hostility (predominantly aggression, 
Patients are recommended to tell their 
relative or a close friend that they are 
depressed or have an anxiety disorder. 
It might be helpful to ask a close 
person for their opinion whether 
depression or anxiety is getting worse. 
oppositional behaviour and anger). 
Patients with a history of suicide-
related behaviours should be carefully 
monitored during treatment. 
Moderate liver 
Liver failure and yellowing of the skin 
The prescriber should be aware that 
disease 
and eyes (jaundice) have been 
liver toxicity may occur during 
(hepatic risks) 
reported rarely (up to 1 in 1,000 
treatment. Duloxetine Zentiva must not 
people) with duloxetine. 
be used in patients with liver disease 
Page 2/5 
 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Most of these side effects occurred 
resulting in hepatic impairment. 
Duloxetine Zentiva should be used with 
caution in patients treated with other 
medicines associated with liver injury. 
during the first months of treatment.  
Cases of liver injury, including severe 
elevations of liver enzymes (>10 
times upper limit of normal), hepatitis 
and jaundice have been reported 
uncommonly with the use of 
duloxetine (affecting up to 1 in 100 
people). 
Most of them occurred during the first 
months of treatment. The pattern of 
liver damage was predominantly 
hepatocellular (damage affecting the 
liver cells). Duloxetine should be used 
with caution in patients treated with 
other medicinal products associated 
with hepatic injury. Elevations of liver 
function tests as well as hepatic 
damage were reported. 
Serious illness with 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome is a life-
Doctors should be aware that Stevens-
blistering of the 
threatening skin reaction which has 
Johnson syndrome may occur during 
skin, mouth, eyes 
been reported rarely with duloxetine 
treatment with Duloxetine Zentiva. 
and other parts of 
(may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people). 
Doctors should monitor patients for any 
the body  
(Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome) 
signs of Stevens-Johnson syndrome. 
High blood sugar 
High blood sugar levels may occur in 
Patients should tell their doctor if they 
levels 
patients while on treatment with 
have diabetes. Patients and those who 
(hyperglycaemia) 
duloxetine. 
care for them should watch for 
High blood sugar levels 
(hyperglycaemia) have been reported 
with duloxetine treatment as an 
uncommon side effect (affecting up to 
1 in 100 people), mostly in diabetic 
patients. 
symptoms of high blood sugar levels 
such as urinating a lot more than usual, 
drinking a lot more than usual, and 
feeling weak. 
Bleeding in the 
There have been reports of bleeding 
Caution is advised in patients taking 
stomach and 
abnormalities, such as ecchymoses 
anticoagulants and/or medicinal 
intestine 
(subcutaneous extravasation of 
products known to affect platelet 
(gastrointestinal 
tract bleeding) 
blood,) purpura (red or purple 
function (such as non-steroidal anti-
discolorations on the skin that do not 
inflammatory drugs [NSAIDs] such as 
blanch on applying pressure) and 
ibuprofen) and in patients with known 
gastrointestinal haemorrhage with 
bleeding tendencies. 
medicines known as selective 
serotonin reuptake inhibitors and 
serotonin/noradrenaline reuptake 
Page 3/5 
 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
inhibitors, including duloxetine. 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Kidney failure 
Kidney problems were very rarely reported in clinical trials and in everyday 
(renal failure) 
clinical experience. There was no indication in clinical trials that the risk of 
kidney failure was higher in duloxetine-treated patients than in placebo-
treated patients. However, the prescriber should be aware that kidney failure 
may occur during treatment. 
Patients are advised to inform their doctor before taking duloxetine if they 
have kidney disease. No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild 
or moderate renal dysfunction (creatinine clearance 30 to 80 ml/min). 
Duloxetine Zentiva must not be used in patients with severe renal impairment 
Heart and blood 
Duloxetine when used together with NSAIDs (such as ibuprofen) has been 
vessel problems 
associated with an increase in blood pressure (hypertension). This may be due 
(cardiovascular 
to the noradrenergic effect of duloxetine. Cases of hypertensive crisis (sudden, 
events) including 
dangerously high blood pressure) have been reported with duloxetine, 
heart attack, heart 
especially in patients with pre-existing hypertension. Therefore, in patients 
failure and stroke 
with known hypertension and/or other heart disease, blood pressure 
especially when using 
monitoring is recommended, especially during the first month of treatment. 
duloxetine with 
Duloxetine should be used with caution in patients whose conditions could be 
NSAIDs 
compromised by an increased heart rate or by an increase in blood pressure. 
Caution is also advised when duloxetine is used with medicines that may 
reduce its breakdown in the body. For patients who experience a sustained 
increase in blood pressure while receiving duloxetine either dose reduction or 
gradual discontinuation should be considered. In patients with uncontrolled 
hypertension duloxetine should not be initiated. 
Various heart and blood vessel side effects including disturbed heart function 
such as a forceful heartbeat that may be rapid or irregular (palpitations) or 
disturbed heart rhythms (mainly atrial fibrillation), increased heart rate 
(tachycardia), increase of blood pressure, flushing or fainting (syncope), 
hypertension, light-headedness or fainting on standing up (orthostatic 
hypotension) or cold fingers and/or toes (peripheral coldness) may occur. 
Patients should tell their doctor if they have high blood pressure or heart 
disease. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Limited information 
There are no adequate data on the use of duloxetine in pregnant women. 
on use in pregnancy 
Duloxetine Zentiva should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit 
Page 4/5 
 
 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
(prospective data 
justifies the potential risk to the unborn child. Women should be advised to 
about potential risks 
notify their physician if they become pregnant, or intend to become pregnant, 
of exposure to 
during therapy. 
duloxetine during 
pregnancy) 
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity at levels of duloxetine 
lower than those used in humans. The potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Duloxetine should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies 
the potential risk to the foetus. Women should be advised to notify their 
physician if they become pregnant, or intend to become pregnant, during 
therapy. 
Limited information 
No dosage adjustment is recommended for elderly patients solely on the basis 
on use of duloxetine 
of age. However, as with any medicine, caution should be exercised when 
120 mg in elderly 
treating the elderly; especially with duloxetine 120 mg per day for major 
patients 
depressive disorder or generalised anxiety disorder, for which data are limited. 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Duloxetine Zentiva can be found on Duloxetine Zentiva’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has no additional risk minimisation measures. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
No post-authorisation development has been planned as this is a generic medicine. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2015. 
Page 5/5 
 
 
 
 
 
