ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Lilly 30 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Duloxetine Lilly 30 mg 
Each capsule contains 30 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride).  
Excipient(s) with known effect 
Each capsule may contain up to 56 mg sucrose. 
Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg 
Each capsule contains 60 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride). 
Excipient(s) with known effect 
Each capsule may contain up to 111 mg sucrose. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Hard gastro-resistant capsule. 
Duloxetine Lilly 30 mg 
Opaque white body, imprinted with ‘30 mg’ and an opaque blue cap, imprinted with ‘9543’. 
Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg 
Opaque green body, imprinted with ‘60 mg’ and an opaque blue cap, imprinted with ‘9542’. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment of major depressive disorder. 
Treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain. 
Treatment of generalised anxiety disorder. 
Duloxetine Lilly is indicated in adults. 
For further information see section 5.1. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Major depressive disorder 
The starting and recommended maintenance dose is 60 mg once daily with or without food. Dosages 
above 60 mg once daily, up to a maximum dose of 120 mg per day have been evaluated from a safety 
perspective in clinical trials. However, there is no clinical evidence suggesting that patients not 
responding to the initial recommended dose may benefit from dose up-titrations. 
Therapeutic response is usually seen after 2-4 weeks of treatment. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After consolidation of the antidepressive response, it is recommended to continue treatment for several 
months, in order to avoid relapse. In patients responding to duloxetine, and with a history of repeated 
episodes of major depression, further long-term treatment at a dose of 60 to 120 mg/day could be 
considered. 
Generalised anxiety disorder 
The recommended starting dose in patients with generalised anxiety disorder is 30 mg once daily with 
or without food. In patients with insufficient response the dose should be increased to 60 mg, which is 
the usual maintenance dose in most patients.  
In patients with co-morbid major depressive disorder, the starting and maintenance dose is 60 mg once 
daily (please see also dosing recommendation above). 
Doses up to 120 mg per day have been shown to be efficacious and have been evaluated from a safety 
perspective in clinical trials. In patients with insufficient response to 60 mg, escalation up to 90 mg or 
120 mg may therefore be considered. Dose escalation should be based upon clinical response and 
tolerability. 
After consolidation of the response, it is recommended to continue treatment for several months, in 
order to avoid relapse. 
Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain 
The starting and recommended maintenance dose is 60 mg daily with or without food. Dosages above 
60 mg once daily, up to a maximum dose of 120 mg per day administered in evenly divided doses, 
have been evaluated from a safety perspective in clinical trials. The plasma concentration of 
duloxetine displays large inter-individual variability (see section 5.2). Hence, some patients that 
respond insufficiently to 60 mg may benefit from a higher dose. 
Response to treatment should be evaluated after 2 months. In patients with inadequate initial response, 
additional response after this time is unlikely. 
The therapeutic benefit should be reassessed regularly (at least every three months) (see section 5.1). 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No dosage adjustment is recommended for elderly patients solely on the basis of age. However, as 
with any medicine, caution should be exercised when treating the elderly, especially with Duloxetine 
Lilly 120 mg per day for major depressive disorder or generalised anxiety disorder, for which data are 
limited (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Duloxetine Lilly must not be used in patients with liver disease resulting in hepatic impairment (see 
sections 4.3 and 5.2). 
Renal impairment  
No dosage adjustment is necessary for patients with mild or moderate renal dysfunction (creatinine 
clearance 30 to 80 ml/min). Duloxetine Lilly must not be used in patients with severe renal impairment 
(creatinine clearance <30 ml/min; see section 4.3). 
Paediatric population 
Duloxetine should not be used in children and adolescents under the age of 18 years for the treatment 
of major depressive disorder because of safety and efficacy concerns (see sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1).  
The safety and efficacy of duloxetine for the treatment of generalised anxiety disorder in paediatric 
patients aged 7-17 years have not been established. Current available data are described in sections 
4.8, 5.1 and 5.2. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety and efficacy of duloxetine for the treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain has not 
been studied. No data are available. 
Discontinuation of treatment 
Abrupt discontinuation should be avoided. When stopping treatment with Duloxetine Lilly the dose 
should be gradually reduced over a period of at least one to two weeks in order to reduce the risk of 
withdrawal reactions (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). If intolerable symptoms occur following a decrease in 
the dose or upon discontinuation of treatment, then resuming the previously prescribed dose may be 
considered. Subsequently, the physician may continue decreasing the dose, but at a more gradual rate. 
Method of administration 
For oral use. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Concomitant use of Duloxetine Lilly with nonselective, irreversible monoamine oxidase inhibitors 
(MAOIs) is contraindicated (see section 4.5). 
Liver disease resulting in hepatic impairment (see section 5.2). 
Duloxetine Lilly should not be used in combination with fluvoxamine, ciprofloxacin or enoxacin (i.e. 
potent CYP1A2 inhibitors) since the combination results in elevated plasma concentrations of 
duloxetine (see section 4.5). 
Severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min) (see section 4.4). 
The initiation of treatment with Duloxetine Lilly is contraindicated in patients with uncontrolled 
hypertension that could expose patients to a potential risk of hypertensive crisis (see sections 4.4 and 
4.8). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Mania and seizures 
Duloxetine Lilly should be used with caution in patients with a history of mania or a diagnosis of 
bipolar disorder, and/or seizures. 
Mydriasis 
Mydriasis has been reported in association with duloxetine, therefore, caution should be used when 
prescribing Duloxetine Lilly to patients with increased intraocular pressure, or those at risk of acute 
narrow-angle glaucoma. 
Blood pressure and heart rate 
Duloxetine has been associated with an increase in blood pressure and clinically significant 
hypertension in some patients. This may be due to the noradrenergic effect of duloxetine. Cases of 
hypertensive crisis have been reported with duloxetine, especially in patients with pre-existing 
hypertension. Therefore, in patients with known hypertension and/or other cardiac disease, blood 
pressure monitoring is recommended, especially during the first month of treatment. Duloxetine 
should be used with caution in patients whose conditions could be compromised by an increased heart 
rate or by an increase in blood pressure. Caution should also be exercised when duloxetine is used 
with medicinal products that may impair its metabolism (see section 4.5). For patients who experience 
a sustained increase in blood pressure while receiving duloxetine either dose reduction or gradual 
discontinuation should be considered (see section 4.8). In patients with uncontrolled hypertension 
duloxetine should not be initiated (see section 4.3). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal impairment 
Increased plasma concentrations of duloxetine occur in patients with severe renal impairment on 
haemodialysis (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min). For patients with severe renal impairment, see 
section 4.3. See section 4.2 for information on patients with mild or moderate renal dysfunction. 
Serotonin syndrome 
As with other serotonergic agents, serotonin syndrome, a potentially life-threatening condition, may 
occur with duloxetine treatment, particularly with concomitant use of other serotonergic agents 
(including SSRIs, SNRIs tricyclic antidepressants or triptans), with agents that impair metabolism of 
serotonin such as MAOIs, or with antipsychotics or other dopamine antagonists that may affect the 
serotonergic neurotransmitter systems (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). 
Serotonin syndrome symptoms may include mental status changes (e.g., agitation, hallucinations, 
coma), autonomic instability (e.g., tachycardia, labile blood pressure, hyperthermia), neuromuscular 
aberrations (e.g. hyperreflexia, incoordination) and/or gastrointestinal symptoms (e.g., nausea, 
vomiting, diarrhoea). 
If concomitant treatment with duloxetine and other serotonergic agents that may affect the 
serotonergic and/or dopaminergic neurotransmitter systems is clinically warranted, careful observation 
of the patient is advised, particularly during treatment initiation and dose increases. 
St John’s wort 
Adverse reactions may be more common during concomitant use of Duloxetine Lilly and herbal 
preparations containing St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum). 
Suicide 
Major Depressive Disorder and Generalised Anxiety Disorder: Depression is associated with an 
increased risk of suicidal thoughts, self harm and suicide (suicide-related events). This risk persists 
until significant remission occurs. As improvement may not occur during the first few weeks or more 
of treatment, patients should be closely monitored until such improvement occurs. It is general clinical 
experience that the risk of suicide may increase in the early stages of recovery. 
Other psychiatric conditions for which Duloxetine Lilly is prescribed can also be associated with an 
increased risk of suicide-related events. In addition, these conditions may be co-morbid with major 
depressive disorder. The same precautions observed when treating patients with major depressive 
disorder should therefore be observed when treating patients with other psychiatric disorders. 
Patients with a history of suicide-related events or those exhibiting a significant degree of suicidal 
thoughts prior to commencement of treatment are known to be at greater risk of suicidal thoughts or 
suicidal behaviour, and should receive careful monitoring during treatment. A meta-analysis of 
placebo-controlled clinical trials of antidepressant medicinal products in psychiatric disorders showed 
an increased risk of suicidal behaviour with antidepressants compared to placebo in patients less than 
25 years old.  
Cases of suicidal thoughts and suicidal behaviours have been reported during duloxetine therapy or 
early after treatment discontinuation (see section 4.8). 
Close supervision of patients and in particular those at high risk should accompany medicinal product 
therapy especially in early treatment and following dose changes. Patients (and caregivers of patients) 
should be alerted about the need to monitor for any clinical worsening, suicidal behaviour or thoughts 
and unusual changes in behaviour and to seek medical advice immediately if these symptoms present. 
Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathic Pain: As with other medicinal products with similar 
pharmacological action (antidepressants), isolated cases of suicidal ideation and suicidal behaviours 
have been reported during duloxetine therapy or early after treatment discontinuation. Concerning risk 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
factors for suicidality in depression, see above. Physicians should encourage patients to report any 
distressing thoughts or feelings at any time. 
Use in children and adolescents under 18 years of age 
Duloxetine Lilly should not be used in the treatment of children and adolescents under the age of 18 
years. Suicide-related behaviours (suicide attempts and suicidal thoughts), and hostility 
(predominantly aggression, oppositional behaviour and anger), were more frequently observed in 
clinical trials among children and adolescents treated with antidepressants compared to those treated 
with placebo. If, based on clinical need, a decision to treat is nevertheless taken, the patient should be 
carefully monitored for the appearance of suicidal symptoms (see section 5.1). In addition, long-term 
safety data in children and adolescents concerning growth, maturation and cognitive and behavioural 
development are lacking (see section 4.8). 
Haemorrhage  
There have been reports of bleeding abnormalities, such as ecchymoses, purpura and gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin/noradrenaline 
reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), including duloxetine. Duloxetine may increase the risk of postpartum 
haemorrhage (see section 4.6). Caution is advised in patients taking anticoagulants and/or medicinal 
products known to affect platelet function (e.g. NSAIDs or acetylsalicylic acid (ASA)), and in patients 
with known bleeding tendencies. 
Hyponatraemia 
Hyponatraemia has been reported when administering Duloxetine Lilly, including cases with serum 
sodium lower than 110 mmol/l. Hyponatraemia may be due to a syndrome of inappropriate anti-
diuretic hormone secretion (SIADH). The majority of cases of hyponatraemia were reported in the 
elderly, especially when coupled with a recent history of, or condition pre-disposing to, altered fluid 
balance. Caution is required in patients at increased risk for hyponatraemia, such as elderly, cirrhotic, 
or dehydrated patients or patients treated with diuretics.  
Discontinuation of treatment 
Withdrawal symptoms when treatment is discontinued are common, particularly if discontinuation is 
abrupt (see section 4.8). In clinical trials adverse events seen on abrupt treatment discontinuation 
occurred in approximately 45% of patients treated with Duloxetine Lilly and 23% of patients taking 
placebo. The risk of withdrawal symptoms seen with SSRI’s and SNRI’s may be dependent on several 
factors including the duration and dose of therapy and the rate of dose reduction. The most commonly 
reported reactions are listed in section 4.8. Generally these symptoms are mild to moderate, however, 
in some patients they may be severe in intensity. They usually occur within the first few days of 
discontinuing treatment, but there have been very rare reports of such symptoms in patients who have 
inadvertently missed a dose. Generally these symptoms are self-limiting and usually resolve within 2 
weeks, though in some individuals they may be prolonged (2-3 months or more). It is therefore 
advised that duloxetine should be gradually tapered when discontinuing treatment over a period of no 
less than 2 weeks, according to the patient’s needs (see section 4.2). 
Elderly 
Data on the use of Duloxetine Lilly 120 mg in elderly patients with major depressive disorder and 
generalised anxiety disorder are limited. Therefore, caution should be exercised when treating the 
elderly with the maximum dosage (see sections 4.2 and 5.2).  
Akathisia/psychomotor restlessness 
The use of duloxetine has been associated with the development of akathisia, characterised by a 
subjectively unpleasant or distressing restlessness and need to move often accompanied by an inability 
to sit or stand still. This is most likely to occur within the first few weeks of treatment. In patients who 
develop these symptoms, increasing the dose may be detrimental. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products containing duloxetine 
Duloxetine is used under different trademarks in several indications (treatment of diabetic neuropathic 
pain, major depressive disorder, generalised anxiety disorder and stress urinary incontinence). The use 
of more than one of these products concomitantly should be avoided. 
Hepatitis/increased liver enzymes  
Cases of liver injury, including severe elevations of liver enzymes (>10 times upper limit of normal), 
hepatitis and jaundice have been reported with duloxetine (see section 4.8). Most of them occurred 
during the first months of treatment. The pattern of liver damage was predominantly hepatocellular. 
Duloxetine should be used with caution in patients treated with other medicinal products associated 
with hepatic injury. 
Sexual dysfunction 
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs)/serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) 
may cause symptoms of sexual dysfunction (see section 4.8). There have been reports of long-lasting 
sexual dysfunction where the symptoms have continued despite discontinuation of SSRIs/SNRIs. 
Sucrose 
Duloxetine Lilly hard gastro-resistant capsules contain sucrose. Patients with rare hereditary problems 
of fructose intolerance, glucose-galactose malabsorption or sucrase-isomaltase insufficiency should 
not take this medicine. 
Sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs): Due to the risk of serotonin syndrome, duloxetine should not 
be used in combination with non-selective irreversible monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), or 
within at least 14 days of discontinuing treatment with an MAOI. Based on the half-life of duloxetine, 
at least 5 days should be allowed after stopping Duloxetine Lilly before starting an MAOI (see section 
4.3). 
The concomitant use of Duloxetine Lilly with selective, reversible MAOIs, like moclobemide, is not 
recommended (see section 4.4). The antibiotic linezolid is a reversible non-selective MAOI and should 
not be given to patients treated with Duloxetine Lilly (see section 4.4). 
Inhibitors of CYP1A2: Because CYP1A2 is involved in duloxetine metabolism, concomitant use of 
duloxetine with potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 is likely to result in higher concentrations of duloxetine. 
Fluvoxamine (100 mg once daily), a potent inhibitor of CYP1A2, decreased the apparent plasma 
clearance of duloxetine by about 77% and increased AUCo-t 6-fold. Therefore Duloxetine Lilly should 
not be administered in combination with potent inhibitors of CYP1A2 like fluvoxamine (see section 
4.3). 
CNS medicinal products: The risk of using duloxetine in combination with other CNS-active 
medicinal products has not been systematically evaluated, except in the cases described in this section. 
Consequently, caution is advised when Duloxetine Lilly is taken in combination with other centrally 
acting medicinal products or substances, including alcohol and sedative medicinal products (e.g. 
benzodiazepines, morphinomimetics, antipsychotics, phenobarbital, sedative antihistamines). 
Serotonergic agents: In rare cases, serotonin syndrome has been reported in patients using 
SSRIs/SNRIs concomitantly with serotonergic agents. Caution is advisable if Duloxetine Lilly is used 
concomitantly with serotonergic agents like SSRIs, SNRIs, tricyclic antidepressants like clomipramine 
or amitriptyline, MAOIs like moclobemide or linezolid, St John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) or 
triptans, tramadol, pethidine and tryptophan (see section 4.4). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect of duloxetine on other medicinal products 
Medicinal products metabolised by CYP1A2: The pharmacokinetics of theophylline, a CYP1A2 
substrate, were not significantly affected by co-administration with duloxetine (60 mg twice daily). 
Medicinal products metabolised by CYP2D6: Duloxetine is a moderate inhibitor of CYP2D6. When 
duloxetine was administered at a dose of 60 mg twice daily with a single dose of desipramine, a 
CYP2D6 substrate, the AUC of desipramine increased 3-fold. The co-administration of duloxetine (40 
mg twice daily) increases steady state AUC of tolterodine (2 mg twice daily) by 71 %, but does not 
affect the pharmacokinetics of its active 5-hydroxyl metabolite and no dosage adjustment is 
recommended. Caution is advised if Duloxetine Lilly is co-administered with medicinal products that 
are predominantly metabolised by CYP2D6 (risperidone, tricyclic antidepressants [TCAs] such as 
nortriptyline, amitriptyline, and imipramine) particularly if they have a narrow therapeutic index (such 
as flecainide, propafenone and metoprolol). 
Oral contraceptives and other steroidal agents: Results of in vitro studies demonstrate that duloxetine 
does not induce the catalytic activity of CYP3A. Specific in vivo drug interaction studies have not 
been performed. 
Anticoagulants and antiplatelet agents: Caution should be exercised when duloxetine is combined 
with oral anticoagulants or antiplatelet agents due to a potential increased risk of bleeding attributable 
to a pharmacodynamic interaction. Furthermore, increases in INR values have been reported when 
duloxetine was co-administered to patients treated with warfarin. However, concomitant 
administration of duloxetine with warfarin under steady state conditions, in healthy volunteers, as part 
of a clinical pharmacology study, did not result in a clinically significant change in INR from baseline 
or in the pharmacokinetics of R- or S-warfarin. 
Effects of other medicinal products on duloxetine 
Antacids and H2 antagonists: Co-administration of duloxetine with aluminium- and magnesium-
containing antacids or duloxetine with famotidine had no significant effect on the rate or extent of 
duloxetine absorption after administration of a 40 mg oral dose. 
Inducers of CYP1A2: Population pharmacokinetic analyses have shown that smokers have almost 50% 
lower plasma concentrations of duloxetine compared with non-smokers. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy  
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity at systemic exposure levels (AUC) of duloxetine 
lower than the maximum clinical exposure (see section 5.3).  
Two large observational studies do not suggest an overall increased risk of major congenital 
malformation (one from the US including 2,500 exposed to duloxetine during the first trimester and 
one from the EU including 1,500 exposed to duloxetine during the first trimester). The analysis on 
specific malformations such as cardiac malformations shows inconclusive results. 
In the EU study, maternal exposure to duloxetine during late pregnancy (at any time from 20 weeks 
gestational age to delivery) was associated with an increased risk for preterm birth (less than 2-fold, 
corresponding to approximately 6 additional premature births per 100 women treated with duloxetine 
late in pregnancy). The majority occurred between 35 and 36 weeks of gestation. This association was 
not seen in the US study. 
The US observational data have provided evidence of an increased risk (less than 2-fold) of 
postpartum haemorrhage following duloxetine exposure within the month prior to birth. 
Epidemiological data have suggested that the use of SSRIs in pregnancy, particularly in late 
pregnancy, may increase the risk of persistent pulmonary hypertension in the newborn (PPHN). 
Although no studies have investigated the association of PPHN to SNRI treatment, this potential risk 
8 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cannot be ruled out with duloxetine taking into account the related mechanism of action (inhibition of 
the re-uptake of serotonin).  
As with other serotonergic medicinal products, discontinuation symptoms may occur in the neonate 
after maternal duloxetine use near term. Discontinuation symptoms seen with duloxetine may include 
hypotonia, tremor, jitteriness, feeding difficulty, respiratory distress and seizures. The majority of 
cases have occurred either at birth or within a few days of birth. 
Duloxetine Lilly should be used in pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to 
the foetus. Women should be advised to notify their physician if they become pregnant, or intend to 
become pregnant, during therapy.  
Breast feeding 
Duloxetine is very weakly excreted into human milk based on a study of 6 lactating patients, who did 
not breast feed their children. The estimated daily infant dose on a mg/kg basis is approximately 
0.14% of the maternal dose (see section 5.2). As the safety of duloxetine in infants is not known, the 
use of Duloxetine Lilly while breast-feeding is not recommended. 
Fertility 
In animal studies, duloxetine had no effect on male fertility, and effects in females were only evident 
at doses that caused maternal toxicity. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Duloxetine Lilly may have a mild to moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
Duloxetine Lilly may be associated with sedation and dizziness. Patients should be instructed that if 
they experience sedation or dizziness they should avoid potentially hazardous tasks such as driving or 
operating machinery. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
a. Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in patients treated with Duloxetine Lilly were nausea, 
headache, dry mouth, somnolence, and dizziness. However, the majority of common adverse reactions 
were mild to moderate, they usually started early in therapy, and most tended to subside even as 
therapy was continued.  
b. Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Table 1 gives the adverse reactions observed from spontaneous reporting and in placebo-controlled 
clinical trials. 
Table 1: Adverse reactions 
Frequency estimate: Very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to 
<1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000), very rare (<1/10,000). 
Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very Rare 
Infections and infestations 
Immune system disorders 
Laryngitis 
Endocrine disorders 
Anaphylactic 
reaction  
Hyper-sensitivity 
disorder 
Hypo-thyroidism 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very common 
Common 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Decreased 
Appetite  
Psychiatric disorders 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very Rare 
Hyperglycaemia 
(reported 
especially in 
diabetic patients) 
Dehydration 
Hyponatraemia 
SIADH6 
Insomnia 
Agitation 
Libido decreased 
Anxiety 
Orgasm abnormal 
Abnormal dreams 
Suicidal 
ideation5,7 
Sleep disorder 
Bruxism 
Disorientation 
Apathy 
Nervous system disorders 
Headache 
Somnolence 
Dizziness 
Lethargy 
Tremor 
Paraesthesia 
Eye disorders 
Blurred vision 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Tinnitus1  
Cardiac disorders 
Palpitations 
Vascular disorders 
Blood pressure 
increase3 
Flushing 
Myoclonus 
Akathisia7 
Nervousness 
Disturbance in 
attention 
Dysgeusia 
Dyskinesia 
Restless legs 
syndrome 
Poor quality sleep 
Mydriasis  
Visual 
impairment 
Vertigo 
Ear pain 
Tachycardia 
Supra-ventricular 
arrhythmia, 
mainly atrial 
fibrillation 
Syncope2 
Hypertension3,7 
Orthostatic 
hypotension2 
Peripheral 
coldness 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Yawning 
Throat tightness 
Epistaxis 
Gastrointestinal disorders  
Nausea 
Dry mouth 
Constipation 
Diarrhoea 
Abdominal pain 
Vomiting  
Dyspepsia 
Flatulence 
Gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage7 
Gastroenteritis 
Eructation 
Gastritis 
Dysphagia 
10 
Suicidal 
behaviour5,7 
Mania 
Hallucinations 
Aggression and 
anger4 
Serotonin 
syndrome6 
Convulsion1 
Psychomotor 
restlessness6 
Extra-pyramidal 
symptoms6 
Glaucoma 
Hypertensive 
crisis3,6 
Interstitial lung 
disease10 
Eosinophilic 
pneumonia6 
Stomatitis 
Haematochezia 
Breath odour  
Microscopic 
colitis9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very Rare 
Hepato-biliary disorders 
Hepatic failure6 
Jaundice6 
Hepatitis3 
Elevated liver 
enzymes (ALT, 
AST, alkaline 
phosphatase) 
Acute liver injury 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Sweating 
increased 
Rash 
Night sweats  
Urticaria 
Dermatitis 
contact 
Cold sweat 
Photo-sensitivity 
reactions 
Increased 
tendency to 
bruise 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Stevens-Johnson 
Syndrome6 
Angio-neurotic 
oedema6 
Cutaneous 
vasculitis 
Musculo-skeletal 
pain 
Muscle spasm 
Muscle tightness 
Muscle twitching 
Trismus 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Dysuria 
Pollakiuria 
Urine odour 
abnormal 
Urinary retention 
Urinary hesitation 
Nocturia 
Polyuria 
Urine flow 
decreased 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Erectile 
dysfunction 
Ejaculation 
disorder  
Ejaculation 
delayed 
Gynaecological 
haemorrhage 
Menstrual 
disorder 
Sexual 
dysfunction 
Testicular pain  
Menopausal 
symptoms 
Galactorrhoea 
Hyperprolactinae
mia 
Postpartum 
haemorrhage6 
Falls8 
Fatigue  
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Chest pain7  
Feeling abnormal 
Feeling cold 
Thirst 
Chills 
Malaise 
Feeling hot 
Gait disturbance 
Investigations 
Weight decrease   Weight increase 
Blood creatine 
phosphokinase 
increased 
Blood potassium 
increased 
Blood cholesterol 
increased 
1  Cases of convulsion and cases of tinnitus have also been reported after treatment discontinuation. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2  Cases of orthostatic hypotension and syncope have been reported especially at the initiation of 
treatment. 
3  See section 4.4. 
4  Cases of aggression and anger have been reported particularly early in treatment or after treatment 
discontinuation. 
5  Cases of suicidal ideation and suicidal behaviours have been reported during duloxetine therapy or 
early after treatment discontinuation (see section 4.4). 
6 Estimated frequency of post-marketing surveillance reported adverse reactions; not observed in 
placebo-controlled clinical trials. 
7 Not statistically significantly different from placebo. 
8 Falls were more common in the elderly (≥65 years old). 
9 Estimated frequency based on all clinical trial data. 
10Estimated frequency based on placebo-controlled clinical trials. 
c. Description of selected adverse reactions 
Discontinuation of duloxetine (particularly when abrupt) commonly leads to withdrawal symptoms. 
Dizziness, sensory disturbances (including paraesthesia or electric shock-like sensations, particularly 
in the head), sleep disturbances (including insomnia and intense dreams), fatigue, somnolence, 
agitation or anxiety, nausea and/or vomiting, tremor, headache, myalgia, irritability, diarrhoea, 
hyperhydrosis and vertigo are the most commonly reported reactions. 
Generally, for SSRIs and SNRIs, these events are mild to moderate and self-limiting, however, in 
some patients they may be severe and/or prolonged. It is therefore advised that when duloxetine 
treatment is no longer required, gradual discontinuation by dose tapering should be carried out (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
In the 12 week acute phase of three clinical trials of duloxetine in patients with diabetic neuropathic 
pain, small but statistically significant increases in fasting blood glucose were observed in duloxetine-
treated patients. HbA1c was stable in both duloxetine-treated and placebo-treated patients. In the 
extension phase of these studies, which lasted up to 52 weeks, there was an increase in HbA1c in both 
the duloxetine and routine care groups, but the mean increase was 0.3% greater in the duloxetine-
treated group. There was also a small increase in fasting blood glucose and in total cholesterol in 
duloxetine-treated patients while those laboratory tests showed a slight decrease in the routine care 
group.  
The heart rate-corrected QT interval in duloxetine-treated patients did not differ from that seen in 
placebo-treated patients. No clinically significant differences were observed for QT, PR, QRS, or 
QTcB measurements between duloxetine-treated and placebo-treated patients. 
d. Paediatric population 
A total of 509 paediatric patients aged 7 to 17 years with major depressive disorder and 241 paediatric 
patients aged 7 to 17 years with generalised anxiety disorder were treated with duloxetine in clinical 
trials. In general, the adverse reaction profile of duloxetine in children and adolescents was similar to 
that seen for adults. 
A total of 467 paediatric patients initially randomized to duloxetine in clinical trials experienced a 0.1 
kg mean decrease in weight at 10-weeks compared with a 0.9 kg mean increase in 353 placebo-treated 
patients. Subsequently, over the four- to six-month extension period, patients on average trended 
toward recovery to their expected baseline weight percentile based on population data from age- and 
gender-matched peers. 
In studies of up to 9 months an overall mean decrease of 1% in height percentile (decrease of 2% in 
children (7-11 years) and increase of 0.3% in adolescents (12-17 years)) was observed in duloxetine-
treated paediatric patients (see section 4.4). 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Cases of overdoses, alone or in combination with other medicinal products, with duloxetine doses of 
5400 mg were reported. Some fatalities have occurred, primarily with mixed overdoses, but also with 
duloxetine alone at a dose of approximately 1000 mg. Signs and symptoms of overdose (duloxetine 
alone or in combination with other medicinal products) included somnolence, coma, serotonin 
syndrome, seizures, vomiting and tachycardia.   
No specific antidote is known for duloxetine but if serotonin syndrome ensues, specific treatment 
(such as with cyproheptadine and/or temperature control) may be considered. A free airway should be 
established. Monitoring of cardiac and vital signs is recommended, along with appropriate 
symptomatic and supportive measures. Gastric lavage may be indicated if performed soon after 
ingestion or in symptomatic patients. Activated charcoal may be useful in limiting absorption. 
Duloxetine has a large volume of distribution and forced diuresis, haemoperfusion, and exchange 
perfusion are unlikely to be beneficial. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: psychoanaleptics, antidepressants, other antidepressants. ATC code: 
N06AX21. 
Mechanism of action 
Duloxetine is a combined serotonin (5-HT) and noradrenaline (NA) reuptake inhibitor. It weakly 
inhibits dopamine reuptake with no significant affinity for histaminergic, dopaminergic, cholinergic 
and adrenergic receptors. Duloxetine dose-dependently increases extracellular levels of serotonin and 
noradrenaline in various brain areas of animals. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Duloxetine normalised pain thresholds in several preclinical models of neuropathic and inflammatory 
pain and attenuated pain behaviour in a model of persistent pain. The pain inhibitory action of 
duloxetine is believed to be a result of potentiation of descending inhibitory pain pathways within the 
central nervous system. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Major Depressive Disorder: Duloxetine Lilly was studied in a clinical programme involving 3,158 
patients (1,285 patient-years of exposure) meeting DSM-IV criteria for major depression. The efficacy 
of Duloxetine Lilly at the recommended dose of 60 mg once a day was demonstrated in three out of 
three randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, fixed dose acute studies in adult outpatients with 
major depressive disorder. Overall, Duloxetine Lilly’s efficacy has been demonstrated at daily doses 
between 60 and 120 mg in a total of five out of seven randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 
fixed dose acute studies in adult outpatients with major depressive disorder. 
Duloxetine Lilly demonstrated statistical superiority over placebo as measured by improvement in the 
17-item Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) total score (including both the emotional and 
somatic symptoms of depression). Response and remission rates were also statistically significantly 
higher with Duloxetine Lilly compared with placebo. Only a small proportion of patients included in 
pivotal clinical trials had severe depression (baseline HAM-D>25). 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In a relapse prevention study, patients responding to 12-weeks of acute treatment with open-label 
Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg once daily were randomised to either Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg once daily or 
placebo for a further 6-months. Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg once daily demonstrated a statistically 
significant superiority compared to placebo (p=0.004) on the primary outcome measure, the 
prevention of depressive relapse, as measured by time to relapse. The incidence of relapse during the 
6-months double-blind follow-up period was 17% and 29% for duloxetine and placebo, respectively. 
During 52 weeks of placebo-controlled double blind treatment, duloxetine-treated patients with 
recurrent MDD had a significantly longer symptom free period (p<0.001) compared with patients 
randomised to placebo. All patients had previously responded to duloxetine during open-label 
duloxetine treatment (28 to 34 weeks) at a dose of 60 to 120 mg/day. During the 52-week placebo-
controlled double blind treatment phase 14.4% of the duloxetine-treated patients and 33.1% of the 
placebo-treated patients experience a return of their depressive symptoms (p<0.001). 
The effect of Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg once a day in elderly depressed patients (≥65 years) was 
specifically examined in a study that showed a statistically significant difference in the reduction of 
the HAMD17 score for duloxetine-treated patients compared to placebo. Tolerability of Duloxetine 
Lilly 60 mg once daily in elderly patients was comparable to that seen in the younger adults. However, 
data on elderly patients exposed to the maximum dose (120mg per day) are limited and thus, caution is 
recommended when treating this population. 
Generalised Anxiety Disorder: Duloxetine Lilly demonstrated statistically significant superiority over 
placebo in five out of five studies including four randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled acute 
studies and a relapse prevention study in adult patients with generalised anxiety disorder.  
Duloxetine Lilly demonstrated statistically significant superiority over placebo as measured by 
improvement in the Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAM-A) total score and by the Sheehan Disability Scale 
(SDS) global functional impairment score. Response and remission rates were also higher with 
Duloxetine Lilly compared to placebo. Duloxetine Lilly showed comparable efficacy results to 
venlafaxine in terms of improvements on the HAM-A total score.  
In a relapse prevention study, patients responding to 6 months of acute treatment with open-label 
Duloxetine Lilly were randomised to either Duloxetine Lilly or placebo for a further 6-months. 
Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg to 120 mg once daily demonstrated statistically significant superiority 
compared to placebo (p<0.001) on the prevention of relapse, as measured by time to relapse. The 
incidence of relapse during the 6-months double-blind follow-up period was 14% for Duloxetine Lilly 
and 42% for placebo. 
The efficacy of Duloxetine Lilly 30-120 mg (flexible dosing) once a day in elderly patients (>65 
years) with generalised anxiety disorder was evaluated in a study that demonstrated statistically 
significant improvement in the HAM-A total score for duloxetine treated patients compared to placebo 
treated patients.  The efficacy and safety of Duloxetine Lilly 30-120 mg once daily in elderly patients 
with generalised anxiety disorder was similar to that seen in studies of younger adult patients.  
However, data on elderly patients exposed to the maximum dose (120 mg per day) are limited and, 
thus, caution is recommended when using this dose with the elderly population. 
Diabetic Peripheral Neuropathic Pain: The efficacy of Duloxetine Lilly as a treatment for diabetic 
neuropathic pain was established in 2 randomised, 12-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled, fixed 
dose studies in adults (22 to 88 years) having diabetic neuropathic pain for at least 6 months. Patients 
meeting diagnostic criteria for major depressive disorder were excluded from these trials. The primary 
outcome measure was the weekly mean of 24-hour average pain, which was collected in a daily diary 
by patients on an 11-point Likert scale. 
In both studies, Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg once daily and 60 mg twice daily significantly reduced pain 
compared with placebo. The effect in some patients was apparent in the first week of treatment. The 
difference in mean improvement between the two active treatment arms was not significant. At least 
30% reported pain reduction was recorded in approximately 65% of duloxetine treated patients versus 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
40% for placebo. The corresponding figures for at least 50% pain reduction were 50% and 26% 
respectively. Clinical response rates (50% or greater improvement in pain) were analysed according to 
whether or not the patient experienced somnolence during treatment. For patients not experiencing 
somnolence, clinical response was observed in 47% of patients receiving duloxetine and 27% of 
patients on placebo. Clinical response rates in patients experiencing somnolence were 60% on 
duloxetine and 30% on placebo. Patients not demonstrating a pain reduction of 30% within 60 days of 
treatment were unlikely to reach this level during further treatment. 
In an open label long-term uncontrolled study, the pain reduction in patients responding to 8-weeks of 
acute treatment of Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg once daily was maintained for a further 6-months as 
measured by change on the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) 24-hour average pain item. 
Paediatric population 
Duloxetine has not been studied in patients under the age of 7.  
Two randomized, double-blind, parallel clinical trials were performed in 800 paediatric patients aged 7 
to 17 years with major depressive disorder (see section 4.2). These two studies included a 10 week 
placebo and active (fluoxetine) controlled acute phase followed by six months period of active 
controlled extension treatment. Neither duloxetine (30-120 mg) nor the active control arm (fluoxetine 
20-40 mg) statistically separated from placebo on change from baseline to endpoint in the Children´s 
Depression Rating Scale-Revised (CDRS-R) total score. Discontinuation due to adverse events was 
higher in patients taking duloxetine compared with those treated with fluoxetine, mostly due to nausea. 
During the 10-week acute treatment period, suicidal behaviours were reported (duloxetine 0/333 [0%], 
fluoxetine 2/225 [0.9%], placebo 1/220 [0.5%]). Over the entire 36-week course of the study, 6 out of 
333 patients initially randomized to duloxetine and 3 out of 225 patients initially randomized to 
fluoxetine experienced suicidal behaviour (exposure adjusted incidence 0.039 events per patient year 
for duloxetine and 0.026 for fluoxetine). In addition, one patient who transitioned from placebo to 
duloxetine experienced a suicidal behaviour while taking duloxetine. 
A randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study was performed in 272 patients aged 7-17 years 
with generalised anxiety disorder.  The study included a 10 week placebo-controlled acute phase, 
followed by an 18 week extension treatment period.  A flexible dose regimen was used in this study, to 
allow for slow dose escalation from 30 mg once daily to higher doses (maximum 120 mg once 
daily).  Treatment with duloxetine showed a statistically significantly greater improvement in GAD 
symptoms, as measured by PARS severity score for GAD (mean difference between duloxetine and 
placebo of 2.7 points [95% CI 1.3-4.0]), after 10 weeks of treatment. The maintenance of the effect 
has not been evaluated. There was no statistically significant difference in discontinuation due to 
adverse events between duloxetine and placebo groups during the 10 week acute treatment phase. Two 
patients who transitioned from placebo to duloxetine after the acute phase experienced suicidal 
behaviours while taking duloxetine during the extension phase. A conclusion on the overall 
benefit/risk in this age group has not been established (see also sections 4.2 and 4.8). 
A single study has been performed in paediatric patients with juvenile primary fibromyalgia syndrome 
(JPFS) in which the duloxetine-treated group did not separate from placebo group for the primary 
efficacy measure. Therefore, there is no evidence of efficacy in this paediatric patient population. The 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel study of duloxetine was conducted in 
184 adolescents aged 13 to 18 years (mean age 15.53 years) with JPFS. The study included a 13-week 
double-blind period where patients were randomised to duloxetine 30 mg/60 mg, or placebo daily. 
Duloxetine did not show efficacy in reducing pain as measured by primary outcome measure of Brief 
Pain Inventory (BPI) average pain score endpoint: least squares (LS) mean change from baseline in 
BPI average pain score at 13 weeks was -0.97 in the placebo group, compared with -1.62 in the 
duloxetine 30/60 mg group (p = 0.052). The safety results from this study were consistent with the 
known safety profile of duloxetine. 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Duloxetine Lilly in all subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of major depressive 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
disorder, diabetic neuropathic pain and generalised anxiety disorder. See section 4.2 for information 
on paediatric use. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Duloxetine is administered as a single enantiomer. Duloxetine is extensively metabolised by oxidative 
enzymes (CYP1A2 and the polymorphic CYP2D6), followed by conjugation. The pharmacokinetics 
of duloxetine demonstrate large intersubject variability (generally 50-60%), partly due to gender, age, 
smoking status and CYP2D6 metaboliser status.  
Absorption  
Duloxetine is well absorbed after oral administration with a Cmax occurring 6 hours post dose. The 
absolute oral bioavailability of duloxetine ranged from 32% to 80% (mean of 50%). Food delays the 
time to reach the peak concentration from 6 to 10 hours and it marginally decreases the extent of 
absorption (approximately 11 %). These changes do not have any clinical significance.  
Distribution  
Duloxetine is approximately 96% bound to human plasma proteins. Duloxetine binds to both albumin 
and alpha-l acid glycoprotein. Protein binding is not affected by renal or hepatic impairment. 
Biotransformation 
Duloxetine is extensively metabolised and the metabolites are excreted principally in urine. Both 
cytochromes P450-2D6 and 1A2 catalyse the formation of the two major metabolites glucuronide 
conjugate of 4-hydroxy duloxetine and sulfate conjugate of 5-hydroxy 6-methoxy duloxetine. Based 
upon in vitro studies, the circulating metabolites of duloxetine are considered pharmacologically 
inactive. The pharmacokinetics of duloxetine in patients who are poor metabolisers with respect to 
CYP2D6 has not been specifically investigated. Limited data suggest that the plasma levels of 
duloxetine are higher in these patients. 
Elimination 
The elimination half-life of duloxetine ranges from 8 to 17 hours (mean of 12 hours). After an 
intravenous dose the plasma clearance of duloxetine ranges from 22 l/hr to 46 l/hr (mean of 36 l/hr). 
After an oral dose the apparent plasma clearance of duloxetine ranges from 33 to 261 l/hr (mean 101 
l/hr). 
Special populations 
Gender 
 Pharmacokinetic differences have been identified between males and females (apparent plasma 
clearance is approximately 50% lower in females). Based upon the overlap in the range of clearance, 
gender-based pharmacokinetic differences do not justify the recommendation for using a lower dose 
for female patients.  
Age 
Pharmacokinetic  differences  have  been  identified  between  younger  and  elderly  females  (≥65  years) 
(AUC increases by about 25% and half-life is about 25% longer in the elderly), although the magnitude 
of  these  changes  is  not  sufficient  to  justify  adjustments  to  the  dose.  As  a  general  recommendation, 
caution should be exercised when treating the elderly (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Renal impairment 
End stage renal disease (ESRD) patients receiving dialysis had 2-fold higher duloxetine Cmax and AUC 
values compared with healthy subjects. Pharmacokinetic data on duloxetine is limited in patients with 
mild or moderate renal impairment. 
Hepatic impairment 
Moderate liver disease (Child Pugh Class B) affected the pharmacokinetics of duloxetine. Compared 
with healthy subjects, the apparent plasma clearance of duloxetine was 79% lower, the apparent 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
terminal half-life was 2.3 times longer, and the AUC was 3.7 times higher in patients with moderate 
liver disease. The pharmacokinetics of duloxetine and its metabolites have not been studied in patients 
with mild or severe hepatic insufficiency. 
Breast-feeding mothers 
The disposition of duloxetine was studied in 6 lactating women who were at least 12-weeks 
postpartum. Duloxetine is detected in breast milk, and steady-state concentrations in breast milk are 
about one-fourth those in plasma. The amount of duloxetine in breast milk is approximately 7 µg/day 
while on 40 mg twice daily dosing. Lactation did not influence duloxetine pharmacokinetics.  
Paediatric population 
Pharmacokinetics of duloxetine in paediatric patients aged 7 to 17 years with major depressive 
disorder following oral administration of 20 to 120 mg once daily dosing regimen was characterized 
using population modelling analyses based on data from 3 studies. The model-predicted duloxetine 
steady state plasma concentrations in paediatric patients were mostly within the concentration range 
observed in adult patients. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Duloxetine was not genotoxic in a standard battery of tests and was not carcinogenic in rats. 
Multinucleated cells were seen in the liver in the absence of other histopathological changes in the rat 
carcinogenicity study. The underlying mechanism and the clinical relevance are unknown. Female 
mice receiving duloxetine for 2 years had an increased incidence of hepatocellular adenomas and 
carcinomas at the high dose only (144 mg/kg/day), but these were considered to be secondary to 
hepatic microsomal enzyme induction. The relevance of this mouse data to humans is unknown. 
Female rats receiving duloxetine (45 mg/kg/day) before and during mating and early pregnancy had a 
decrease in maternal food consumption and body weight, oestrous cycle disruption, decreased live 
birth indices and progeny survival, and progeny growth retardation at systemic exposure levels 
estimated to be at the most at maximum clinical exposure (AUC). In an embryotoxicity study in the 
rabbit, a higher incidence of cardiovascular and skeletal malformations was observed at systemic 
exposure levels below the maximum clinical exposure (AUC). No malformations were observed in 
another study testing a higher dose of a different salt of duloxetine. In prenatal/postnatal toxicity 
studies in the rat, duloxetine induced adverse behavioural effects in the offspring at exposures below 
maximum clinical exposure (AUC). 
Studies in juvenile rats reveal transient effects on neurobehaviour, as well as significantly decreased 
body weight and food consumption; hepatic enzyme induction; and hepatocellular vacuolation at 
45 mg/kg/day. The general toxicity profile of duloxetine in juvenile rats was similar to that in adult 
rats. The no-adverse effect level was determined to be 20 mg/kg/day.  
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Capsule content 
Hypromellose 
Hypromellose acetate succinate 
Sucrose 
Sugar spheres 
Talc 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Triethyl citrate 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capsule shell 
Duloxetine Lilly 30 mg 
Gelatin 
Sodium lauryl sulfate 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Indigo carmine (E132) 
Edible green ink  
Edible green ink contains: 
Black iron oxide - synthetic (E172) 
Yellow iron oxide - synthetic (E172) 
Propylene glycol 
Shellac 
Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg 
Gelatin 
Sodium lauryl sulfate 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Indigo carmine (E132) 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
Edible white ink  
Edible white ink contains: 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Propylene glycol 
Shellac 
Povidone 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. Do not store above 30º C. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Polyvinylchloride (PVC), polyethylene (PE), and polychlorotrifluoroethylene (PCTFE) blister sealed 
with an aluminium foil. 
Duloxetine Lilly 30 mg  
Duloxetine Lilly 30 mg is available in packs of 7, 28 and 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules.  
Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg 
Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg is available in packs of 28, 56, 84 and 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules and in 
multipacks containing 100 (5 packs of 20) and 500 (25 packs of 20) hard gastro-resistant capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal  
No special requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V., Papendorpseweg 83, 3528 BJ Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/972/001  
EU/1/14/972/002  
EU/1/14/972/003 
EU/1/14/972/004 
EU/1/14/972/005  
EU/1/14/972/006  
EU/1/14/972/007  
EU/1/14/972/008 
EU/1/14/972/009  
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 08 December 2014 
Date of latest renewal: 31 July 2019 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency (EMA) web 
site: http://www.ema.europa.eu  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.    MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Lilly S.A.  
Avda. de la Industria Nº 30,  
28108 Alcobendas  
Madrid 
Spain 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.  
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP)  
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2. of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP.  
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
• 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/ risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTONS FOR 30 MG HARD GASTRO-RESISTANT CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Lilly 30 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules. 
duloxetine  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 30 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sucrose 
See leaflet for further information 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
7 hard gastro-resistant capsules  
28 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
98 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. Do not store above 30°C 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V., Papendorpseweg 83, 3528 BJ Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/14/972/001 (7 hard gastro-resistant capsules) 
EU/1/14/972/002 (28 hard gastro-resistant capsules) 
EU/1/14/972/003 (98 hard gastro-resistant capsules) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Duloxetine Lilly 30 mg  
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC:  
SN: 
NN:  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
30 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Lilly 30 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
duloxetine 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Lilly 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
CARTONS FOR 60 MG HARD GASTRO-RESISTANT CAPSULES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules. 
duloxetine  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 60 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sucrose 
See leaflet for further information 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
28 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
56 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
84 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
98 hard gastro-resistant capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. Do not store above 30°C 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V., Papendorpseweg 83, 3528 BJ Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/14/972/004 (28 hard gastro-resistant capsules) 
EU/1/14/972/005 (56 hard gastro-resistant capsules) 
EU/1/14/972/006 (84 hard gastro-resistant capsules) 
EU/1/14/972/007 (98 hard gastro-resistant capsules) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg  
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC:  
SN: 
NN:  
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
MULTIPACK- INNER CARTON FOR 60 MG HARD GASTRO-RESISTANT CAPSULES 
(without blue box) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules. 
duloxetine  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 60 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sucrose 
See leaflet for further information 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
20 hard gastro-resistant capsules. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. Do not store above 30°C 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V., Papendorpseweg 83, 3528 BJ Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/14/972/008 (100 hard gastro-resistant capsules) (5 packs of 20) 
EU/1/14/972/009 (500 hard gastro-resistant capsules) (25 packs of 20) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
MULTIPACK-OUTER CARTON FOR 60 MG HARD GASTRO-RESISTANT CAPSULES 
(with blue box) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules. 
duloxetine  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 60 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sucrose 
See leaflet for further information 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Multipack: 100 (5 packs of 20) hard gastro-resistant capsules 
Multipack: 500 (25 packs of 20) hard gastro-resistant capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. Do not store above 30°C 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V., Papendorpseweg 83, 3528 BJ Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/14/972/008 (100 hard gastro-resistant capsules) (5 packs of 20) 
EU/1/14/972/009 (500 hard gastro-resistant capsules) (25 packs of 20) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg  
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC:  
SN: 
NN:  
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
60 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
duloxetine 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Lilly 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: information for the user 
Duloxetine Lilly 30 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg hard gastro-resistant capsules 
duloxetine (as hydrochloride) 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any of the side effects talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet:  
1.  What Duloxetine Lilly is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Duloxetine Lilly 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Duloxetine Lilly 
Possible side effects 
How to store Duloxetine Lilly 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Duloxetine Lilly is and what it is used for 
Duloxetine Lilly contains the active substance duloxetine. Duloxetine Lilly increases the levels of 
serotonin and noradrenaline in the nervous system. 
Duloxetine Lilly is used in adults to treat: 
• 
• 
• 
depression 
generalised anxiety disorder (chronic feeling of anxiety or nervousness) 
diabetic neuropathic pain (often described as burning, stabbing, stinging, shooting or aching or 
like an electric shock. There may be loss of feeling in the affected area, or sensations such as 
touch, heat, cold or pressure may cause pain) 
Duloxetine Lilly starts to work in most people with depression or anxiety within two weeks of starting 
treatment, but it may take 2-4 weeks before you feel better. Tell your doctor if you do not start to feel 
better after this time. Your doctor may continue to give you Duloxetine Lilly when you are feeling 
better to prevent your depression or anxiety from returning 
In people with diabetic neuropathic pain it can take some weeks before you feel better. Talk to your 
doctor if you do not feel better after 2 months. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Duloxetine Lilly 
DO NOT take Duloxetine Lilly if you: 
− 
− 
− 
− 
are allergic to duloxetine or any of the other ingredients of  this medicine (listed in section 6) 
have liver disease 
have severe kidney disease 
are taking or have taken within the last 14 days, another medicine known as a monoamine 
oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) (see ‘Other medicines and Duloxetine Lilly’) 
are taking fluvoxamine which is usually used to treat depression, ciprofloxacin or enoxacin 
which are used to treat some infections 
are taking other medicines containing duloxetine (see ‘Other medicines and Duloxetine Lilly’)  
− 
− 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Talk to your doctor if you have high blood pressure or heart disease. Your doctor will tell you if you 
should be taking Duloxetine Lilly. 
Warnings and precautions 
The following are reasons why Duloxetine Lilly may not be suitable for you. Talk to your doctor 
before you take Duloxetine Lilly if you: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
are taking other medicines to treat depression (see ‘Other medicines and Duloxetine Lilly’) 
are taking St. John’s Wort, a herbal treatment (Hypericum perforatum) 
have kidney disease 
have had seizures (fits) 
have had mania 
suffer from bipolar disorder 
have eye problems, such as certain kinds of glaucoma (increased pressure in the eye) 
have a history of bleeding disorders (tendency to develop bruises), especially if you are 
pregnant (see ‘Pregnancy and breast-feeding‘) 
are at risk of low sodium levels (for example if you are taking diuretics, especially if you are 
elderly) 
are currently being treated with another medicine which may cause liver damage 
are taking other medicines containing duloxetine (see ‘Other medicines and Duloxetine Lilly’) 
- 
- 
- 
Duloxetine Lilly may cause a sensation of restlessness or an inability to sit or stand still. You should 
tell your doctor if this happens to you. 
Medicines like Duloxetine Lilly (so called SSRIs/SNRIs) may cause symptoms of sexual dysfunction 
(see section 4). In some cases, these symptoms have continued after stopping treatment. 
Thoughts of suicide and worsening of your depression or anxiety disorder 
If you are depressed and/or have anxiety disorders you can sometimes have thoughts of harming or 
killing yourself. These may be increased when first starting antidepressants, since these medicines all 
take time to work, usually about two weeks but sometimes longer. 
You may be more likely to think like this if you:  
- 
- 
have previously had thoughts about killing or harming yourself 
are a young adult. Information from clinical trials has shown an increased risk of suicidal 
behaviour in adults aged less than 25 years with psychiatric conditions who were treated with an 
antidepressant 
If you have thoughts of harming or killing yourself at any time, contact your doctor or go to a 
hospital straight away. 
You may find it helpful to tell a relative or close friend that you are depressed or have an anxiety 
disorder, and ask them to read this leaflet. You might ask them to tell you if they think your depression 
or anxiety is getting worse, or if they are worried about changes in your behaviour. 
Children and adolescents under 18 years of age 
Duloxetine Lilly should normally not be used for children and adolescents under 18 years. Also, you 
should know that patients under 18 have an increased risk of side-effects such as suicide attempt, 
suicidal thoughts and hostility (predominantly aggression, oppositional behaviour and anger) when 
they take this class of medicines. Despite this, your doctor may prescribe Duloxetine Lilly for patients 
under 18 because he/she decides that this is in their best interests. If your doctor has prescribed 
Duloxetine Lilly for a patient under 18 and you want to discuss this, please go back to your doctor. 
You should inform your doctor if any of the symptoms listed above develop or worsen when patients 
under 18 are taking Duloxetine Lilly. Also, the long-term safety effects concerning growth, 
maturation, and cognitive and behavioural development of Duloxetine Lilly in this age group have not 
yet been demonstrated. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medicines and Duloxetine Lilly 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription.  
The main ingredient of Duloxetine Lilly, duloxetine, is used in other medicines for other conditions:  
•  diabetic neuropathic pain, depression, anxiety and urinary incontinence 
Using more than one of these medicines at the same time should be avoided. Check with your doctor if 
you are already taking other medicines containing duloxetine.  
Your doctor should decide whether you can take Duloxetine Lilly with other medicines. Do not start 
or stop taking any medicines, including those bought without a prescription and herbal 
remedies, before checking with your doctor. 
You should also tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following: 
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs): You should not take Duloxetine Lilly if you are taking, or 
have recently taken (within the last 14 days) another antidepressant medicine called a monoamine 
oxidase inhibitor (MAOI). Examples of MAOIs include moclobemide (an antidepressant) and 
linezolid (an antibiotic). Taking a MAOI together with many prescription medicines, including 
Duloxetine Lilly, can cause serious or even life-threatening side effects. You must wait at least 
14 days after you have stopped taking an MAOI before you can take Duloxetine Lilly. Also, you need 
to wait at least 5 days after you stop taking Duloxetine Lilly before you take a MAOI. 
Medicines that cause sleepiness: These include medicines prescribed by your doctor including 
benzodiazepines, strong painkillers, antipsychotics, phenobarbital and antihistamines.  
Medicines that increase the level of serotonin: Triptans, tramadol, tryptophan, SSRIs (such as 
paroxetine and fluoxetine), SNRIs (such as venlafaxine), tricyclic antidepressants (such as 
clomipramine, amitriptyline), pethidine, St John’s Wort and MAOIs (such as moclobemide and 
linezolid). These medicines increase the risk of side effects; if you get any unusual symptom taking 
any of these medicines together with Duloxetine Lilly, you should see your doctor. 
Oral anticoagulants or antiplatelet agents: Medicines which thin the blood or prevent the blood from 
clotting. These medicines might increase the risk of bleeding. 
Duloxetine Lilly with food, drink and alcohol 
Duloxetine Lilly may be taken with or without food. Care should be taken if you drink alcohol while 
you are being treated with Duloxetine Lilly. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
• 
Tell your doctor if you become pregnant, or you are trying to become pregnant, while you are 
taking Duloxetine Lilly. You should use Duloxetine Lilly only after discussing the potential 
benefits and any potential risks to your unborn child with your doctor. 
•  Make sure your midwife and/or doctor knows you are on Duloxetine Lilly. When taken during 
pregnancy, similar drugs (SSRIs) may increase the risk of a serious condition in babies, called 
persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn (PPHN), making the baby breathe faster and 
appear bluish. These symptoms usually begin during the first 24 hours after the baby is born. If 
this happens to your baby you should contact your midwife and/or doctor immediately. 
• 
If you take Duloxetine Lilly near the end of your pregnancy, your baby might have some 
symptoms when it is born. These usually begin at birth or within a few days of your baby being 
born. These symptoms may include floppy muscles, trembling, jitteriness, not feeding properly, 
trouble with breathing and fits. If your baby has any of these symptoms when it is born, or you 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
are concerned about your baby’s health, contact your doctor or midwife who will be able to 
advise you.  
If you take Duloxetine Lilly near the end of your pregnancy there is an increased risk of 
excessive vaginal bleeding shortly after birth, especially if you have a history of bleeding 
disorders. Your doctor or midwife should be aware that you are taking duloxetine so they can 
advise you. 
Available data from the use of Duloxetine Lilly during the first three months of pregnancy do 
not show an increased risk of overall birth defects in general in the child. If Duloxetine Lilly is 
taken during the second half of pregnancy, there may be an increased risk that the infant will be 
born early (6 additional premature infants for every 100 women who take Duloxetine Lilly in 
the second half of pregnancy), mostly between weeks 35 and 36 of pregnancy. 
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding. The use of Duloxetine Lilly while breastfeeding is 
not recommended. You should ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice. 
• 
• 
• 
Driving and using machines 
Duloxetine Lilly may have a mild to moderate effect on your ability to drive and use machines. It may 
make you feel sleepy or dizzy. Do not drive or use any tools or machines until you know how 
Duloxetine Lilly affects you. 
Duloxetine Lilly contains sucrose 
Duloxetine Lilly contains sucrose. If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance 
to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicinal product. 
Duloxetine Lilly contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to take Duloxetine Lilly 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Duloxetine Lilly is for oral use. You should swallow your capsule whole with a drink of water. 
For depression and diabetic neuropathic pain:  
The usually recommended dose of Duloxetine Lilly is 60 mg once a day, but your doctor will 
prescribe the dose that is right for you.  
For generalised anxiety disorder: 
The usually recommended starting dose of Duloxetine Lilly is 30 mg once a day after which most 
patients will receive 60 mg once a day, but your doctor will prescribe the dose that is right for you. 
The dose may be adjusted up to 120 mg a day based on your response to Duloxetine Lilly. 
To help you remember to take Duloxetine Lilly, you may find it easier to take it at the same times 
every day. 
Talk with your doctor about how long you should keep taking Duloxetine Lilly. Do not stop taking 
Duloxetine Lilly, or change your dose, without talking to your doctor. Treating your disorder properly 
is important to help you get better.  If it is not treated, your condition may not go away and may 
become more serious and difficult to treat. 
If you take more Duloxetine Lilly than you should 
Call your doctor or pharmacist immediately if you take more than the amount of Duloxetine Lilly 
prescribed by your doctor. Symptoms of overdose include sleepiness, coma, serotonin syndrome (a 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rare reaction which may cause feelings of great happiness, drowsiness, clumsiness, restlessness, 
feeling of being drunk, fever, sweating or rigid muscles), fits, vomiting and fast heart rate. 
If you forget to take Duloxetine Lilly 
If you miss a dose, take it as soon as you remember. However, if it is time for your next dose, skip the 
missed dose and take only a single dose as usual. Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten 
dose. Do not take more than the daily amount of Duloxetine Lilly that has been prescribed for you in 
one day. 
If you stop taking Duloxetine Lilly 
DO NOT stop taking your capsules without the advice of your doctor even if you feel better. If your 
doctor thinks that you no longer need Duloxetine Lilly he or she will ask you to reduce your dose over 
at least 2 weeks before stopping treatment altogether.  
Some patients who stop taking Duloxetine Lilly suddenly have had symptoms such as: 
• 
dizziness, tingling feelings like pins and needles or electric shock-like feelings (particularly in 
the head), sleep disturbances (vivid dreams, nightmares, inability to sleep), fatigue, sleepiness, 
feeling restless or agitated, feeling anxious, feeling sick (nausea) or being sick (vomiting), 
shaking (tremor), headaches, muscle pain, feeling irritable, diarrhoea, excessive sweating or 
vertigo. 
These symptoms are usually not serious and disappear within a few days, but if you have symptoms 
that are troublesome you should ask your doctor for advice. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. These 
effects are normally mild to moderate and often disappear after a few weeks. 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
headache, feeling sleepy 
feeling sick (nausea), dry mouth 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
lack of appetite 
trouble sleeping, feeling agitated, less sex drive, anxiety, difficulty or failure to experience 
orgasm, unusual dreams 
dizziness, feeling sluggish, tremor, numbness, including numbness, pricking or tingling of the 
skin 
blurred eyesight 
tinnitus (hearing sound in the ear when there is no external sound) 
feeling the heart pumping in the chest,  
increased blood pressure, flushing 
increased yawning 
constipation, diarrhoea, stomach pain, being sick (vomiting), heartburn or indigestion, breaking 
wind 
increased sweating, (itchy) rash  
muscle pain, muscle spasm 
painful urination, frequent urination 
problems getting an erection, changes in ejaculation 
falls (mostly in elderly people), fatigue 
weight loss 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents under 18 years of age with depression treated with this medicine had some 
weight loss when they first start taking this medicine. Weight increased to match other children and 
adolescents of their age and sex after 6 months of treatment. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
throat inflammation that causes a hoarse voice 
• 
suicidal thoughts, difficulty sleeping, grinding or clenching the teeth, feeling disorientated, lack 
of motivation 
sudden involuntary jerks or twitches of the muscles, sensation of restlessness or an inability to 
sit or stand still, feeling nervous, difficulty concentrating, changes in sense of taste, difficulty 
controlling movement e.g. lack of coordination or involuntary movements of the muscles, 
restless legs syndrome, poor sleep quality  
large pupils (the dark centre of the eye), problems with eyesight 
feeling of dizziness or “spinning” (vertigo), ear pain 
fast and/or irregular heart beat 
fainting, dizziness, lightheadedness or fainting on standing up, cold fingers and/or toes 
throat tightness, nose bleeds 
vomiting blood, or black tarry stools (faeces), gastroenteritis, burping, difficulty swallowing 
inflammation of the liver that may cause abdominal pain and yellowing of the skin or whites of 
the eyes 
night sweats, hives, cold sweats, sensitivity to sunlight, increased tendency to bruise   
muscle tightness, muscle twitching  
difficulty or inability to pass urine, difficulty to start urinating, needing to pass urine during the 
night, needing to pass more urine than normal, having a decreased urine flow 
abnormal vaginal bleeding, abnormal periods, including heavy, painful, irregular or prolonged 
periods, unusually light or missed periods, pain in the testicles or scrotum 
chest pain, feeling cold, thirst, shivering, feeling hot, abnormal gait 
weight gain 
Duloxetine Lilly may cause effects that you may not be aware of, such as increases in liver 
enzymes or blood levels of potassium, creatine phosphokinase, sugar, or cholesterol 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1000 people) 
• 
serious allergic reaction which causes difficulty in breathing or dizziness with swollen tongue or 
lips, allergic reactions  
decreased thyroid gland activity which can cause tiredness or weight gain  
dehydration, low levels of sodium in the blood (mostly in elderly people; the symptoms may 
include feeling dizzy, weak, confused, sleepy or very tired, or feeling or being sick, more 
serious symptoms are fainting, fits or falls), syndrome of inappropriate secretion of anti-diuretic 
hormone (SIADH)   
suicidal behaviour, mania (over activity, racing thoughts and decreased need for sleep), 
hallucinations, aggression and anger 
 “Serotonin syndrome” (a rare reaction which may cause feelings of great happiness, 
drowsiness, clumsiness, restlessness, feeling of being drunk, fever, sweating or rigid muscles), 
fits 
increased pressure in the eye (glaucoma) 
coughing, wheezing and shortness of breath which may be accompanied by a high temperature 
inflammation of the mouth, passing bright red blood in your stools, bad breath, inflammation of 
the large intestine (leading to diarrhoea) 
liver failure, yellowing of the skin or whites of the eyes (jaundice) 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (serious illness with blistering of the skin, mouth, eyes and genitals), 
serious allergic reaction which causes swelling of the face or throat (angioedema) 
contraction of the jaw muscle 
abnormal urine odour  
menopausal symptoms, abnormal production of breast milk in men or women 
excessive vaginal bleeding shortly after birth (postpartum haemorrhage) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
40 
 
 
 
 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
• 
inflammation of the blood vessels in the skin (cutaneous vasculitis) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Duloxetine Lilly 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton. 
Store in the original package to protect from moisture. Do not store above 30°C. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Duloxetine Lilly contains 
The active substance is duloxetine.  
Each capsule contains 30 or 60 mg of duloxetine (as hydrochloride). 
The other ingredients are: 
Capsule content: hypromellose, hypromellose acetate succinate, sucrose, sugar spheres, talc, titanium 
dioxide (E171), triethyl citrate (See end of section 2 for further information on sucrose). 
Capsule shell: gelatin, sodium lauryl sulfate, titanium dioxide (E171), indigo carmine (E132), yellow 
iron oxide (E172) (60 mg only) and edible green ink (30 mg) or edible white ink (60 mg). 
Edible green ink: synthetic black iron oxide (E172), synthetic yellow iron oxide (E172), propylene 
glycol, shellac. 
Edible white ink: titanium dioxide (E171), propylene glycol, shellac, povidone. 
What Duloxetine Lilly looks like and contents of the pack 
Duloxetine Lilly is a hard gastro-resistant capsule. Each capsule of Duloxetine Lilly contains pellets of 
duloxetine hydrochloride with a covering to protect them from stomach acid.   
Duloxetine Lilly is available in 2 strengths: 30 mg and 60 mg. 
The 30 mg capsules are blue and white and are printed with ‘30 mg’ and the code ‘9543’. 
The 60 mg capsules are blue and green and are printed with ‘60 mg’ and the code ‘9542’. 
Duloxetine Lilly 30 mg is available in packs of 7, 28 and 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules.  
Duloxetine Lilly 60 mg is available in packs of 28, 56, 84 and 98 hard gastro-resistant capsules and in 
multipacks containing 100 (5 packs of 20) and 500 (25 packs of 20) hard gastro-resistant capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: Eli Lilly Nederland B.V., Papendorpseweg 83, 3528 BJ Utrecht, The 
Netherlands.  
Manufacturer: Lilly S.A., Avda. De la Industria, 30, 28108 Alcobendas, Madrid, Spain. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Eli Lilly Benelux S.A./N.V. 
Tél/Tel: + 32-(0)2 548 84 84 
Lietuva 
Eli Lilly Lietuva 
Tel. +370 (5) 2649600 
България 
ТП "Ели Лили Недерланд" Б.В. - България 
тел. + 359 2 491 41 40 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Eli Lilly Benelux S.A./N.V. 
Tél/Tel: + 32-(0)2 548 84 84 
Česká republika 
ELI LILLY ČR, s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 234 664 111 
Danmark 
Eli Lilly Danmark A/S  
Tlf: +45 45 26 60 00 
Deutschland 
Lilly Deutschland GmbH 
Tel. + 49-(0) 6172 273 2222 
Eesti 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +372 6 817 280 
Ελλάδα 
ΦΑΡΜΑΣΕΡΒ-ΛΙΛΛΥ Α.Ε.Β.Ε.  
Τηλ: +30 210 629 4600 
España 
Dista S.A. 
Tel: + 34 91 623 17 32 
France 
Lilly France 
Tél: +33-(0) 1 55 49 34 34 
Hrvatska 
Eli Lilly Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 2350 999 
Magyarország 
Lilly Hungária Kft. 
Tel: + 36 1 328 5100 
Malta 
Charles de Giorgio Ltd. 
Tel: + 356 25600 500 
Nederland 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V.  
Tel: + 31-(0) 30 60 25 800 
Norge 
Eli Lilly Norge A.S.  
Tlf: + 47 22 88 18 00 
Österreich 
Eli Lilly Ges.m.b.H.  
Tel: + 43-(0) 1 711 780 
Polska 
Eli Lilly Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 22 440 33 00 
Portugal 
Lilly Portugal Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda 
Tel: + 351-21-4126600 
România 
Eli Lilly România S.R.L. 
Tel: + 40 21 4023000 
Ireland 
Eli Lilly and Company (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 353-(0) 1 661 4377 
Slovenija 
Eli Lilly farmacevtska družba, d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 (0)1 580 00 10 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími + 354 540 8000 
Italia 
Eli Lilly Italia S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39- 055 42571 
Slovenská republika 
Eli Lilly Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: + 421 220 663 111 
Suomi/Finland 
Oy Eli Lilly Finland Ab 
Puh/Tel: + 358-(0) 9 85 45 250 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Κύπρος 
Phadisco Ltd  
Tηλ: +357 22 715000 
Sverige 
Eli Lilly Sweden AB 
Tel: + 46-(0) 8 7378800 
Latvija 
Eli Lilly (Suisse) S.A Pārstāvniecība Latvijā  
Tel: +371 67364000 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Eli Lilly and Company (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: + 353-(0) 1 661 4377 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
