PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary  of  risk  management  plan 
Pharmaceuticals and EZEQUA (duloxetine) 
for  Duloxetine  Mylan,  Duloxetina  Mylan 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Duloxetine Mylan, Duloxetina Mylan 
Pharmaceuticals and EZEQUA. The RMP details important risks of duloxetine, how these risks 
can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about  duloxetine's  risks  and 
uncertainties (missing information). 
Duloxetine  Mylan,  Duloxetina  Mylan  Pharmaceuticals  and  EZEQUA'  summaries  of  product 
characteristics  (SmPC)  and  their  package  leaflet  give  essential  information  to  healthcare 
professionals and patients on how it should be used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Duloxetine  Mylan  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  the 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Duloxetine 
Mylan, Duloxetina Mylan Pharmaceuticals and EZEQUA' RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Duloxetine Mylan, Duloxetina Mylan Pharmaceuticals and EZEQUA are authorised for treatment 
of  major  depressive  disorder,  diabetic  peripheral  neuropathic  pain  and  generalised  anxiety 
disorder. It contains duloxetine as the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Duloxetine  Mylan’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
Duloxetine  Mylan’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the 
risks  
Important risks of Duloxetine Mylan, Duloxetina Mylan Pharmaceuticals and EZEQUA, together 
with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about Duloxetine 
Mylan's, Duloxetina Mylan Pharmaceuticals and EZEQUA’ risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  Information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimises its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  events  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If  important  information  that  may  affect  the  safe  use  of  Duloxetine  Mylan,  Duloxetina  Mylan 
Pharmaceuticals and EZEQUA is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information  
Important risks of Duloxetine Mylan, Duloxetina Mylan Pharmaceuticals and EZEQUA are risks 
that need special risk management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the 
medicinal product can be safely taken by patients. Important risks can be regarded as identified or 
potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of 
Duloxetine Mylan, Duloxetina Mylan Pharmaceuticals and EZEQUA. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is  currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine/use in special patient populations etc.); 
Part VI: Summary of safety concerns 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
•  Suicidality  
Important potential risks 
None  
Missing information 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks  
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Duloxetine Mylan, Duloxetina Mylan Pharmaceuticals and EZEQUA.  
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There  are  no  studies  required  for  Duloxetine  Mylan,  Duloxetina  Mylan  Pharmaceuticals  and 
EZEQUA. 
