EMA/276795/2015 
EMEA/H/C/003981 
EPAR summary for the public 
Duloxetine Mylan 
duloxetine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Duloxetine Mylan. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Duloxetine Mylan. 
For practical information about using Duloxetine Mylan, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Duloxetine Mylan and what is it used for? 
Duloxetine Mylan is used to treat adults with the following diseases: 
•  major depression; 
• 
• 
pain due to diabetic peripheral neuropathy (damage to the nerves in the extremities that can occur 
in patients with diabetes); 
generalised anxiety disorder (long-term anxiety or nervousness about everyday matters). 
Duloxetine Mylan contains the active substance duloxetine and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that 
Duloxetine Mylan is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) 
called Cymbalta. For more information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document 
here. 
How is Duloxetine Mylan used? 
Duloxetine Mylan is available as gastroresistant capsules (30 and 60 mg). ‘Gastroresistant’ means that 
the capsules’ contents pass through the stomach without being broken down until they reach the 
intestine. This prevents the active substance being destroyed by the acid in the stomach. The medicine 
can only be obtained with a prescription. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
For major depression, the recommended dose of Duloxetine Mylan is 60 mg once a day. A response is 
usually seen in two to four weeks. In patients who respond to Duloxetine Mylan, treatment should 
continue for several months to prevent the disease coming back, or for longer in patients who have 
had repeated periods of depression in the past. 
For diabetic neuropathic pain, the recommended dose is 60 mg per day but some patients may need a 
higher dose of 120 mg per day. The response to treatment should be assessed regularly. 
For generalised anxiety disorder, the recommended starting dose is 30 mg once a day, but the dose 
can be increased to 60, 90 or 120 mg depending on the patient’s response. Most patients will need to 
take 60 mg per day. Patients who also have major depression should start with 60 mg once a day. In 
patients who respond to Duloxetine Mylan, treatment should continue for several months, to prevent 
the disorder coming back. 
The dose of Duloxetine Mylan should be reduced gradually when stopping treatment. 
How does Duloxetine Mylan work? 
The active substance in this medicine, duloxetine, is a serotonin-noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor. It 
works by preventing the neurotransmitters serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) and noradrenaline from 
being taken back up into nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord. 
Neurotransmitters are chemicals that allow nerve cells to communicate with one another. By blocking 
their re-uptake, duloxetine increases the amount of these neurotransmitters in the spaces between 
these nerve cells, increasing the level of communication between the cells. Since these 
neurotransmitters are involved in maintaining high mood and reducing the sensation of pain, blocking 
their re-uptake into nerve cells can improve the symptoms of depression, anxiety and neuropathic 
pain. 
How has Duloxetine Mylan been studied? 
Because Duloxetine Mylan is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Cymbalta. Two medicines are 
bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Duloxetine Mylan? 
Because Duloxetine Mylan is a generic medicine of Cymbalta, its benefits and risks are taken as being 
the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Duloxetine Mylan approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance 
with EU requirements, Duloxetine Mylan has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to Cymbalta. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Cymbalta, the benefit 
outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Duloxetine Mylan be approved for use 
in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Duloxetine Mylan? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Duloxetine Mylan is used as safely as 
possible. Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product 
Duloxetine Mylan  
EMA/276795/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
characteristics and the package leaflet for Duloxetine Mylan, including the appropriate precautions to 
be followed by healthcare professionals and patients. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Other information about Duloxetine Mylan 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Duloxetine Mylan on 19 June 2015. 
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Duloxetine Mylan can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For 
more information about treatment with Duloxetine Mylan, read the package leaflet (also part of the 
EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2015. 
Duloxetine Mylan  
EMA/276795/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
