European Medicines Agency 
London, 17 December 2009 
Doc. Ref: EMA/CHMP/195986/2010 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
DuoCover 
International Nonproprietary Name: clopidogrel / acetylsalicylic acid 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001144 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ................................................. 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 4 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION....................................................................................................... 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 6 
Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................................... 11 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 15 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 35 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 35 
Page 2 of 37 
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Bristol-Myers  Squibb  Pharma  EEIG  submitted  on  04  March  2009  an  application  for 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  for  DuoCover,  through  the  centralised 
procedure  under  Article  3  (2)  (a)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004.  The  eligibility  to  the  centralised 
procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 29 September 2008.  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 10(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended – relating to applications for new fixed combination 
products. 
The application submitted is a complete dossier: 
a new fixed combination medicinal product. 
The applicant applied for the following indication:  
DuoCover is indicated for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in adult patients already taking both 
clopidogrel  and  acetylsalicylic  acid  (ASA).  DuoCover  is  a  fixed-dose  combination  product  for 
continuation of therapy in:  
(cid:131)  Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial 
infarction)  including  patients  undergoing  a  stent  placement  following  percutaneous  coronary 
intervention  
(cid:131)  ST  segment  elevation  acute  myocardial  infarction  in  medically  treated  patients  eligible  for 
thrombolytic therapy  
Information on Paediatric requirement 
Pursuant to Article 7, the application included an Agency Decision (Waiver Decision Number P/47/2008) 
for the following condition: 
•  Treatment of coronary atherosclerosis. 
on the granting of a class waiver  
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
This new fixed combination medicinal product has been given a Marketing Authorisation in Singapore on 
08 August 2008 and in Australia on 14 September 2009. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur:   Cristina Sampaio 
Co-Rapporteur: Pieter Neels  
Page 3 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the European Medicines Agency on 04 March 2009. 
The procedure started on 25 March 2009.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 09 June 2009. 
The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  16  June 
2009.  In  accordance  with  Article  6(3)  of  Regulation  (RC)  No  726/2004,  the  Rapporteur  and  Co-
Rapporteur declared that they had completed their assessment report in less than 80 days.   
During the meeting on 20-23 July 2009 the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be  sent  to  the  applicant.  The  final  consolidated  List  of  Questions  was  sent  to  the  applicant  on  24 
July 2009. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 15 October 
2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 27 November 2009.  
During the meeting on 14-17 December 2009 the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting Marketing 
Authorisation to DuoCover on 17 December 2009. The applicant provided the letter of undertaking 
on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 16 December 2009. 
Page 4 of 37 
 
 
2.  SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Various  types  of  therapeutic  intervention  should  be  considered  for  prevention  of  ACS  (Acute  coronary 
syndrome),  a  clinical  syndrome  of  acute  cardiac  ischaemia  related  to  coronary  artery  disease  (CAD). 
These  include  therapeutic  interventions  aimed  at  preventing  coronary  plaque  formation  (mainly  primary 
prevention and treatment of risk factors), interventions aimed at preventing plaque rupture (with potential 
for  an  anti-inflammatory  approach),  and  interventions  aimed  at  interfering  with  the  final  step  of 
thrombosis, i.e., formation of the clot. In UA (unstable angina)/NSTEMI (non-ST  segment  elevation  MI) 
patients, the aim of therapeutic intervention is to prevent thrombosis from extending to complete coronary 
occlusion  and  then  MI.  Due  to  the  high  risk  of  vascular  events  in  these  patients,  and  the  key 
pathophysiologic  role  of  platelets,  antiplatelet  therapy  is  a  logical  therapeutic  approach.  ASA  has  for  a 
long time been recommended as a first approach to treating all types of ACS indications, and based on the 
EFC3307 (CURE) study results, the use of clopidogrel in combination with ASA was approved in Europe, 
US, and 89 countries worldwide, and this approach is now also recommended in international guidelines 
and becomes the standard of care. Based on the EFC7018 (COMMIT/CCS-2) and EFC5133 (CLARITY-
TIMI 28) study results, clopidogrel in combination with ASA has been more recently approved (February 
2007) in Europe, in the US and several other countries for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in 
STEMI  patients  eligible  for  thrombolytic  therapy.  Its  use  in  combination  with  ASA  has  also  been 
recommended by international guidelines, and has become the standard of care.  
Therefore, the combination of clopidogrel with ASA is the standard of care in a broad ACS population, 
given  the  well-recognized  demonstration  of  its  efficacy  and  safety  and  the  broad  regulatory  approval of 
the combined use of the two compounds, clopidogrel and ASA. (For further information please refer to the 
Iscover (clopidogrel) EPAR). 
This dossier applies for marketing authorization for DuoCover, which contains a fixed-dose combination 
of  clopidogrel  (75  mg)  and  acetylsalicylic  acid  (ASA)  (75  mg  or  100  mg)  as  film-coated  immediate-
release tablet formulations. 
The use of a fixed-dose combination tablet instead of the individual administration of the two compounds 
is expected to be more convenient to patients (and thus to improve compliance) by limiting the number of 
tablets they need to take.   
This fixed-dose combination of antiplatelet agents is aimed to cover a substitution therapy of clopidogrel 
and ASA administered at the same dose level, dosing interval, and dose timing in the indications where 
the  labeling  of  clopidogrel  mentions  it  should  be  administered  concomitantly  with  ASA  [i.e.,  the 
prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients suffering from acute coronary syndrome (ACS): Non-
ST-segment  elevation  acute  coronary  syndrome  (unstable  angina  or  non-Q-wave  myocardial  infarction) 
and  ST-segment  elevation  acute  myocardial  infarction  in  medically  treated  patients  eligible  for 
thrombolytic therapy].  
The clinical dossier is mainly based on bioequivalence studies testing the rate and extent of absorption of 
each component of the combination as compared to each substance administered in monotherapy. These 
are the only clinical studies performed with the fixed-dose combination. In addition the applicant provided 
a  letter  of  access  to  all  data  previously  submitted  for clopidogrel,  which  is  authorized  in  the  EEA  via  a 
Centralised  procedure  (EMEA/H/C/0175  -  EU/1/98/070-  Iscover  ),  along  with  non-clinical  and  clinical 
summary  data  for  clopidogrel  (mainly  based  on  the  existing  clopidogrel  MA  dossier)  and  for  ASA 
(literature data). 
Page 5 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The claimed indication reads as follows:  
“DuoCover is indicated for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in adult patients already taking both 
clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). DuoCover is a fixed-dose combination product for 
continuation of therapy in:  
• Non-ST segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial 
infarction) including patients undergoing a stent placement following percutaneous coronary 
intervention  
• ST segment elevation acute myocardial infarction in medically treated patients eligible for thrombolytic 
therapy “ 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
DuoCover  is  presented  as  film-coated  tablets  containing  two  active  substances.  Tablets  are  bilayer: 
clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). Two strengths of the medicinal product, with the same amount 
of  clopidogrel  but  with  different  amounts  of  ASA  have  been  proposed.  Each  tablet  of  the  first  strength 
contains  97.875 mg  of  clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate  (equivalent  to  75 mg  clopidogrel)  and  75 mg  of 
acetylsalicylic  acid.  Each  tablet  of  the  second  strength  contains  97.875 mg  of  clopidogrel  hydrogen 
sulphate (equivalent to 75 mg clopidogrel) and 100 mg of acetylsalicylic acid.  
The excipients used in the formulation of DuoCover are well known excipients typically used in the tablet 
formulation 
substituted 
hydroxypropylcellulose, maize starch, hydrogenated castor oil, stearic acid and anhydrous colloidal silica 
(present in the core of the tablet), lactose, hypromellose, titanium dioxide, triacetin, yellow iron oxide for 
75 mg/75 mg strength or red iron oxide for 75 mg/100 mg strength (present in the coating), and carnauba 
wax  as a polishing agent. 
such  as  mannitol,  macrogol  6000,  microcrystalline  cellulose, 
low 
DuoCover 75 mg/75 mg tablets are yellow, oval, slightly biconvex, film-coated, engraved with «C75» on 
one side and «A75» on the other side.  
DuoCover 75 mg/100 mg tablets are light pink, oval, slightly biconvex, film-coated, engraved with «C75» 
on one side and «A100» on the other side.  
The tablets are packed in aluminium blister packs or in aluminium perforated unit-dose blister packs. 
Active Substance 
Clopidogrel 
Clopidogrel  is  chemically  designated  as  methyl  (+)-(S)-α-(o-chlorophenyl)-6,7-dihydrothieno  [3,2-c] 
pyridine-5-(4H)  acetate  (INN),    methyl  (S)-2-chlorophenyl  (4,5,6,7-tetrahydrothieno  [3,2-c]  pyridin-5yl) 
acetate  (BAN)  or  as  thieno  [3,2-c]  pyridine-5(4H)-acetic  acid,  alpha-(2  chlorophenyl)-6,7-dihydro-, 
methyl ester, (S) (CAS).  
The active substance used for manufacture of the product is the hydrogen sulphate salt of clopidogrel. It is 
chemically  designated  as  thieno  [3,2-c]  pyridine-5(4H)-acetic  acid,  alpha-(2  chlorophenyl)-6,7-dihydro-, 
methyl ester, (S) -, sulphate (1:1) and has the following structure: 
Page 6 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OMe
Cl
O
H
N
.
H2SO4
S
Clopidogrel hydrogen sulphate is a white to off-white powder, non-hygroscopic, which melts at  ± 177 °C. 
It  is  freely  soluble  in  water  and  methanol,  practically  insoluble  in  ether.  The  octanol / water  partition 
coefficient  at  pH  7.4  is  about  3.9,  its  pKa  is  about  4.55.  It  is  a  chiral  substance  due  to  presence  of  one 
chiral  centre.  Three  positional  isomers  and  one  optical  isomer  exist.  The  substance  used  in  the 
manufacture of DuoCover is the (S) enantiomer. 
Two polymorphic forms (form I and II) of clopidogrel hydrogen sulphate are known. The substance used 
in  the  manufacture  of  the  medicinal  product  is  clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate  form  II  which  is 
thermodynamically more stable than form I. 
•  Manufacture 
Clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulfate  is  manufactured  according  to  two  alternative  synthesis  routes,  so  called 
Synthesis  Route  1  and  Synthesis  Route  2.  Both  synthetic  routes  are  adequately  described  and  were 
approved for clopidogrel active substance used in Iscover. 
A  detailed  description  of  the  manufacturing  process  including  process  flow  diagram  and  in-process 
controls  were  provided  in  the  restricted  part  of  the  Active  Substance  Master  File  (ASMF).  All  critical 
steps  with  accompanying  in-process  controls  have  been  identified.  Appropriate  specifications  for  the 
starting materials and reagents have been established. 
The chemical structure of clopidogrel hydrogen sulfate has been confirmed by IR, UV,  1H,  13C and  15N 
NMR  spectroscopy,  mass  spectrometry  (MS),  absolute  configuration  study,  specific  optical  rotation  and 
elemental analysis. Configuration of the asymmetric carbon has been determined by crystallography and 
verified by chiral chromatography. 
Assessment  of  polymorphism  was  performed  using  X-ray  powder  diffraction,  differential  scanning 
calorimetry  and  IR  spectroscopy.  Two  polymorphic  forms  (form  I  and  II)  have  been  identified.  Initial 
manufacturing  process  of  the  active  substance  produced  polymorphic  form  I.  After  discovery  of 
polymorphic  form  II  which  was  thermodynamically  more  stable  form,  the  manufacturing  process  was 
adapted to consistently produce form II. 
•  Specification 
The active substance specifications include tests for appearance and solubility, identification (IR, HPLC 
and reaction of sulphates), appearance of solution, particle size, enantiospecific assay (HPLC), impurities 
(HPLC),  volatile  substances  (GC),  water  content  (Karl  Fisher),  heavy  metals,  sulphated  ash.  The  same 
specifications are applicable to the active substance whether manufactured according to Synthesis Route 1 
or Synthesis Route 2. 
Analytical methods have been sufficiently described and validated. The HPLC method for determination 
of impurities has been validated with regards to specificity, repeatability, limit of detection and limit of 
quantitation,  recovery,  linearity  and  accuracy  of  precision.  The  GC  method  for  volatile  substances  has 
been validated with regards to ruggedness, repeatability, linearity, accuracy and limit of detection - limit 
Page 7 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of  quantitation.  The  enantiospecific  HPLC  assay  method  has  been  validated  with  regards  to  specificity, 
repeatability, linearity, recovery and precision. 
Batch analysis data on production scale batches of clopidogrel hydrogen sulfate form II originating from 
the two Synthesis Routes 1 and / or 2 was also provided. In addition batch analysis data was provided on 
three batches used in clinical studies and manufactured according to Synthesis Route 1. All results were 
consistent from batch to batch and complied with the requirements in the active substance specification. 
•  Stability 
Stability studies have been performed on the active substance manufactured according to Synthesis Routes 
1  and  2.  The  active  substance  manufactured  according  to  the  Synthesis  Route  1  was  stored  up  to 
36 months  at  25°C/60 % RH  (long  term  conditions),  up  to  24 months  at  30°C/60 % RH  (intermediate 
conditions)  and  up  to  6 months  at  40°C/75 % RH  (accelerated  conditions).  The  active  substance 
manufactured according to the Synthesis Route 2 was stored up to 36 months at 25°C/60 % RH (normal 
conditions) and up to 6 months at 40°C/75 % RH (accelerated conditions). 
In addition results from forced degradation studies were provided. The active substance, in solid state and 
in solution, was exposed to variety of stress conditions including elevated temperature, elevated humidity, 
photolytic, acidic, basic and oxidative conditions.  
Results indicate that the active substance obtained from Synthesis Routes 1 and 2 is stable when stored 
according to proposed conditions and confirmed the re-test period.   
Acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) 
Acetylsalicylic  acid  is  chemically  designated  as  Benzoic  acid,  2-(acetyloxy)  (CAS)  or  2-(acetyloxy)-
benzoic acid (IUPAC). It is also commonly known as Aspirin and has the following structure: 
O
OH
O
O
It  is  white  crystalline  powder  with  melting  point  at  156 - 161  °C,  freely  soluble  in  alcohol,  soluble  in 
chloroform,  ethyl  acetate  and  ether,  slightly  soluble  in  water.  Its  octanol / water  partition  coefficient  is 
13.49 and pKa 3.5. 
•  Manufacture 
The  manufacturer  of  acetylsalicylic  acid  obtained  a  Certificate  of  suitability  with  requirements  of 
European  Pharmacopoeia  (CEP).  The  detailed  information  on  characterisation  and  control  of  the 
substance,  reference  materials  and  container  closure  system  was  provided  to  the  EDQM  and  assessed 
before granting the CEP. 
It has been confirmed that no changes in the manufacturing process, specifications and analytical methods, 
were introduced since the granting of the CEP. 
Page 8 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Specification 
Acetylsalicylic acid is described in the European Pharmacopoeia and its manufacturer has confirmed the 
active  substance  complies  with  these  requirements.  A  copy  of  the  CEP  has  been  provided.  The  CEP 
includes a test for residual solvent used during the synthesis. 
•  Stability 
A retest period and storing conditions of the active substance are confirmed in the CEP. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The objective of the formulation development was to obtain fixed-dose combination tablets, which would 
be  equivalent  to  therapy  consisting  of Iscover  75  mg  tablets  combined  with  commercially  available 
acetylsalicylic acid tablets. 
The product has been developed as film-coated bilayer tablets containing two active substances. The aim 
of a preliminary development was to define the technology to be used for manufacturing tablets containing 
two active substances. Film-coated tablets were finally selected.  
The 75 mg clopidogrel granulate corresponds to the already marketed Iscover 75 mg core formula and is 
granulated according to the existing processing for this product. No modifications have been introduced to 
the formula, batch size and granulation process of the clopidogrel granulation.  
Further  formulation  development  was  performed  on  the  blend  containing  acetylsalicylic  acid.  Various 
grades  of  acetylsalicylic  acid  granulated  with  maize  starch  with  varying  particle  size  distribution  were 
mixed  with  additional  excipients  in  order  to  achieve  a  homogenized  blend.  The  weight  of  the 
acetylsalicylic  acid  blend  varies  proportionally  in  order  to  achieve  the  various  strengths  of  the 
combination.  
The acetylsalicylic acid granulation blend was optimised for consistent release of acetylsalicylic acid and 
to produce granulation with good flow and compressibility properties.  
•  Adventitious Agents 
Among excipients used in the medicinal product only lactose present in the coating is of the animal origin. 
Declarations from the lactose suppliers were provided, stating that lactose was sourced from healthy 
animals under the same conditions as milk collected for human consumption. 
Stearic acid used in the formulation is of vegetable origin. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The tablets are manufactured from two distinct granulations, one containing clopidogrel hydrogen sulfate 
and the second containing acetylsalicylic acid. The medicinal product manufacturing process consists of 
four steps (1) preparation of granulates for compression (for both active substances), (2) compression, (3) 
film coating, and (4) packaging. The critical steps of the manufacturing process have been identified and 
adequately studied. Appropriate in-process controls of the critical steps have been established. 
The applicant committed to perform validation on the commercial scale batches of the medicinal product, 
according to the provided validation protocol. Validation will be performed on marketed strengths. It will 
be  conducted  in  three  phases  according  to  the  different  process  steps:  granulation,  compression  and 
Page 9 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
coating.  This  was  acceptable  as  the  formula / granulation  containing  clopidogrel  hydrogen  sulphate  has 
already been satisfactorily manufactured in the proposed manufacturing site for several years at the same 
scale. In addition for the blend containing acetylsalicylic acid parameters identified during development 
were then further studied during the manufacture of the process validation batches. 
•  Product Specification 
The  product  specifications  include  tests  for  appearance,  identification  of  clopidogrel  and  acetylsalicylic 
acid  (HPLC),  identification  of  titanium  dioxide  and  ferric  oxide,  uniformity  of  dosage  units  for 
clopidogrel  and  acetylsalicylic  acid,  assay  of  clopidogrel  and  acetylsalicylic  acid,  dissolution  (HPLC  of 
both  active  substances),  impurities  (HPLC  of  both  active  substances),  water  content  (Karl  Fisher)  and 
microbiological quality. 
The analytical methods have been sufficiently described, some of them are compendial methods described 
in the Ph Eur.  
The  HPLC  method  for  chromatographic  purity  and  the  HPLC  method  for  assay  are  in-house  methods 
which  have  been  adequately  validated  with  regards  to  specificity,  limits  of  detection  and  quantitation, 
linearity, accuracy, repeatability, intermediate precision and robustness.  
With regard to the dissolution parameters, the following factors have been tested: solubility of clopidogrel 
and  acetylsalicylic  acid  in  dissolution  medium  (demonstration  of  “SINK”  conditions),  influence  of  the 
deaeration  of  the  dissolution  medium,  influence  of  the  pH  of  the  dissolution  medium,  influence  of  the 
composition of the dissolution medium on the dissolution profile and robustness. The HPLC method used 
in the dissolution test is comparable to the one used for the assay with adjustments in the concentrations of 
the  test  solutions  and  in  the  mobile  phase.  The  method  has  been  validated  with  respect  to  specificity, 
stability of solution, linearity, accuracy, repeatability and intermediate precision. 
Batch  analysis  results  on  several  commercial  scale  batches  of  each  strength  of  the  medicinal  product 
indicated  satisfactory  uniformity  and  compliance  with  agreed  specifications.  The  results  are  consistent 
from batch to batch. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability studies according to the ICH guidelines have been performed on a total number of 26 batches of 
the  medicinal  product.  Stability  studies  have  been  performed  under  stress  conditions  (photostability 
study),  long  term  (25°C/60  % RH),  and  intermediate  (30°C/65  % RH)  up  to  30  months  and  accelerated 
conditions (40°C/75 % RH) up to 6 months. No significant changes during the stability studies have been 
observed.  
The  results  generated  during  the  stability  studies  and  statistical  analyses  support  the  proposed  shelf  life 
and storage conditions as defined in the SmPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  active  substances  and  the  medicinal  product  have  been  appropriately  characterised  and  generally 
satisfactory documentation has been provided. The excipients used in the preparation of the product and 
manufacturing process selected are typical for tablets. The results indicate that the active substances and 
the medicinal product can be reproducibly manufactured. 
Page 10 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
No  preclinical  studies  with  the  FDC  were  performed.  This  is  acceptable  as  the  combination clopidogrel 
plus ASA has not introduced any additional impurities to the product that are not present in clopidogrel 75 
mg tablets, or in a range of ASA products.   
An extensive preclinical development program had been carried out for clopidogrel, and a letter of access 
to the Iscover dossier was provided in the FDC dossier.  
For ASA preclinical literature data were included in the dossier and these are sufficient to assess potential 
safety issues with ASA at dose levels proposed for use in humans. A summary of the main findings for 
clopidogrel and ASA respectively was provided in the dossier. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Clopidogrel  
Clopidogrel  selectively  inhibits  the  binding  of  adenosine  diphosphate  (ADP)  to  its  platelet  receptor  and 
the  subsequent  ADP-mediated  activation  of  the  glycoprotein  GPIIb/IIIa  complex,  thereby  inhibiting 
platelet aggregation.  
The mechanism of the antiplatelet action of clopidogrel is mediated through a metabolite, the structure of 
which  has  been  identified  during  the  process  of  regulatory  assessment  of  the  marketing  authorization 
application of the Iscover file. This metabolite has been isolated and its structure characterized as a thiol 
derivative of 2 oxo clopidogrel. In vitro, in the absence of hepatic biotransformation no effect on platelet 
aggregation  by  clopidogrel  could  be  observed,  demonstrating  the  metabolite  associated  effect.    The 
pharmacological  target  of  this  active  metabolite  is  a  Gi2  coupled  receptor  designated  as  P2Y12.  The 
molecular  interaction  between  the  clopidogrel  active  metabolite  and  the  P2Y12  receptor  consists  in  the 
formation  of  a  disulfur  bridge  between  the  reactive  thiol  of  the  molecule  and  cysteine  97  of  P2Y12, 
causing  the  disruption  of  receptor  complexes  and  translocation  from  platelet  membrane  microdomains. 
The activity of clopidogrel on platelet aggregation was appropriately evaluated in vitro and ex vivo. 
Acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) 
ASA  inhibits  platelet  aggregation  by  irreversible  inhibition  of  prostaglandin  cyclo-oxygenase  and  thus 
inhibits the generation of thromboxane A2, an inducer of platelet aggregation and vasoconstriction. This 
effect lasts for the life of the platelet.  
The pharmacological profile of ASA as a cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor (both COX-1 and COX-2) has 
been extensively established.  
• 
It  is  active  in  most  conventional  models  of  inflammation,  irrespective  of  their  different 
mechanisms. 
•  ASA has also been shown to be a peripheral analgesic and antipyretic.  
•  The anti-thrombotic activity of ASA is based on a specific anti-platelet activity due to selective 
acetylation  of  thrombocyte  COX-1  and  on  a  fibrinolytic  activity  due  to  N-acetylation  of 
fibrinogen. 
Clopidogrel/ASA combination 
The synergistic overpotentiation obtained when ASA and clopidogrel are given in combination has been 
demonstrated  in  some  studies,  3  of  which  are  referred  in  the  DuoCover  file1 2 3.  The  observed  additive 
1 Bierbach B, Horstick G, Berg O, Heimann A, Münzel T, Vahl CF, et al. Potent low dose 
platelet inhibitory effects of clopidogrel and aspirin on coronary thrombus formation in an 
animal model of acute unstable angina. Thromb Haemost 2006;95(2):354-61. 
Page 11 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
effect  strongly  suggests  that  the  combined  inhibition  of  1/  COX  (and  subsequently  of  thromboxane 
synthesis) by ASA and 2/ ADP receptors by clopidogrel can provide substantial protection against platelet 
aggregation and thrombosis at the site of endothelial injury, in humans. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies with the combination were not performed and are not requested in 
view of the extensive data available on the use of combined individual medicinal products at the dosage 
now being applied for in the DuoCover application. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Safety  pharmacology  studies  with  the  combination  were  not  performed  and  are  not  requested  given  the 
extensive data available on the use of combined individual medicinal products at the dosage being applied 
for in the DuoCover application. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No pharmacodynamic studies were conducted with the combination. Based on the fact that there is 
sufficient clinical experience with combined use of the individual medicinal products in patients, 
nonclinical interaction studies have not been requested by the CHMP. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Clopidogrel  
The  metabolism  and  disposition  of  clopidogrel  were  evaluated  in  several  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies 
performed in the mouse, rat, rabbit and baboons. The pharmacokinetics of ASA has been investigated in 
the rat (with some further limited data in the dog and monkey) and is largely documented in humans.  
Clopidogrel  is  well  absorbed  (at  least  50%),  and  undergoes  extensive  metabolism.  Twenty  metabolites 
were identified. In all species, the primary biotransformation pathways consist of: hydrolysis of the ester 
function  by  carboxylesterases  (leading  to  the  formation  of  SR26334,  the  main  circulating  metabolite); 
sulfoxidation,  oxidation  of  the  tetrahydropyridine  moiety,  and  glucuronidation  of  SR26334.  The  main 
metabolite  found  in  plasma,  the  carboxylic  acid  derivative  (SR26334),  is  inactive.  The  peak  plasma 
concentration  of  SR26334  was  observed  1  to  2  hours  after  oral  administration  of  clopidogrel  in  all  the 
studied  animal  species.  The  active  thiol  metabolite  of  clopidogrel  isolated  following  incubation  of 
clopidogrel with hepatic microsomal fractions has not been detected in plasma.  
The binding of clopidogrel and SR26334 to plasma proteins was high (98% and 94% respectively) in all 
species  and  distributed  widely  in  tissues.  Radioactivity  was  slowly  eliminated  from  the  tissues,  and  in 
particular from arterial wall, thyroid gland, cartilage, skin and spleen. Transfer of the radioactivity to the 
developing foetus was observed in pregnant rats and rabbits. The majority of radioactivity was excreted 
within 48 hours in all species. In lactating rats, clopidogrel and/or its metabolites levels in milk were 0.5 to 
2.6 times higher than the maternal plasma levels. 
2 Herbert JM, Dol F, Bernat A, Falotico R, Lalé A, Savi P. The antiaggregating and 
antithrombotic  activity  of  clopidogrel  is  potentiated  by  aspirin  in  several  experimental  models  in  the  rabbit.  Thromb  Haemost 
1998;80(3):512-8 
3. Harker LA, Marzec UM, Kelly AB, Chronos NR, Sundell IB, Hanson SR,et al. Clopidogrel 
inhibition of stent, graft, and vascular thrombogenesis with antithrombotic enhancement by 
aspirin in nonhuman primates. Circulation 1998;98(22):2461-9. 
Page 12 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                            
 
 
ASA 
After oral administration, ASA is rapidly absorbed to give appreciable concentrations in plasma even after 
30 minutes before a gradual decline with conversion of ASA to salicylate. Both ASA and salicylate are 
rapidly and extensively distributed in body fluids (including breast milk). They are localized in excretory 
organs  (liver  and  kidney)  and  glandular  stomach  and  cross  the  placental  barrier.  ASA  binds  strongly  to 
plasma  proteins  and  may  displace  certain  compounds  including  other  acidic  nonsteroidal  anti-
inflammatory  drugs  (NSAID)  or  coumarins.  The  biotransformation  of  ASA  proceeds  in  two  steps.  The 
first step is independent of dose and involves conversion to salicylate by pre-absorptive hydrolysis in the 
gut  mucosa  and  a  hepatic  first-pass  effect.  The  second  step,  the  metabolic  conversion  of  salicylate  and 
subsequent formation of conjugates and their renal excretion, is dose-dependent. Salicyluric acid 
is the main and rate-limiting metabolite in humans. 
Clopidogrel/ASA combination 
The  PK  of  combined  Clopidogrel/ASA  has  not  been  addressed  in  dedicated  studies.  Based  on  the 
pharmacokinetic characteristics of clopidogrel and ASA and on the drug-drug interaction profiles of each 
of these drugs, no pharmacokinetic interactions between the 2 compounds are expected.   
Both compounds are highly protein bound and undergo hepatic metabolism. Although these aspects might 
raise the possibility for pharmacokinetic interaction, this is expected to have been covered in the clinical 
use, since the combined use of both compounds has been taking place already. Therefore, it is considered 
that  there  is  no  need  for  dedicated  pharmacokinetic  and  interaction  studies  with  the  fixed  dose 
combination.  
Toxicology 
The  general  safety  aspects  associated  to  clopidogrel  and  ASA  regarding  general  toxicity  and  specific 
aspects  like  genotoxicity,  carcinogenicity  or  reproductive  toxicity  are  well  know  from  previously 
performed studies with Iscover and from published data and clinical information on and experience with 
the use of both drugs, including their combined use in the dose ratio included in DuoCover.  
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single dose studies have shown that oral toxicity of both ASA and clopidogrel is low. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
The toxicity after repeated use of both drugs is generally related to their pharmacodynamics and mainly 
involves gastrointestinal disturbances. However these effects occurred only at very high dosages of each 
drug representing more than 300 or 30 times the usual human dosage on a mg/kg basis for clopidogrel or 
ASA, respectively.  
Repeat  dose  toxicity  data  for  ASA  show  specific  effects  of  ASA  on  other  target  organs  comprising  the 
central nervous, cardiovascular and respiratory systems, sensory organs, kidney and in Reye’s syndrome.  
The  main  toxicological  finding  at  doses  up  to  400  mg/kg/day  clopidogrel  correspond  to  increased  liver 
weight  associated  with  hypertrophy  of  the  smooth  endoplasmic  reticulum  in  centrilobular  hepatocytes 
corresponding to an effect on hepatic enzymes. The no-effect level, based on increased liver weight, is 27 
mg/kg/day in rats and 65 mg/kg/day in baboons and corresponds to an exposure of at least 7 times (rats) 
and more than 10 times (baboons) higher than that observed in humans at the recommended therapeutic 
dose. 
Neither clopidogrel nor ASA, even when administered at very high dose levels, induce any spontaneous 
haemorrhages. Bleeding complications are the most often described adverse effects of any anticoagulation 
Page 13 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
therapy.  As  expected  given  the  pharmacological  activity  of  the  compounds,  increases  in  bleeding  time 
were observed following occasional vascular lesions. 
•  Genotoxicity 
No  genotoxicity/  carcinogenicity  studies  were  performed  with  the  fixed-dose  combination,  which  is 
acceptable.  None  of  the  two  drugs  were  found  to  be  genotoxic  or  carcinogenic.  Although  ASA  has  not 
been tested in contemporary carcinogenicity studies in rodents, the vast human experience suggests that 
ASA is not carcinogenic in humans at therapeutic doses.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
Please see under Genotoxicity. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
The reproductive toxicity profile, particularly of aspirin raises concern in relation to early (embryofoetal 
development) or late (dystocia and foetal mortality) pregnancy, many of the effects being associated to the 
inhibitory effect on prostaglandin synthesis.  Precautionary information has been included in sections 4.3 
and  4.6  of  the  SPC,  to  appropriately  restrict  its  use.  The  use  in  pregnancy  of  DuoCover  is  not  to  be 
completely contraindicated due to the severity of the condition. A contra-indication for third trimester of 
pregnancy was added to the product information, while use during the first 2 trimesters of pregnancy is 
not recommended unless the patient`s clinical condition requires treatment with clopidogrel/ASA.  
Studies  in  rats  have  shown  that  clopidogrel  and/or  its  metabolites  are  excreted  in  the  milk  and  breast-
feeding should not be continued during treatment with DuoCover (see SPC section 4.6 and 5.3) 
•  Local tolerance / Other toxicity studies 
No  data  have  been  submitted  with  the  combination  nor  the  individual  compounds.  No  specific  studies 
were considered necessary by CHMP in the light of the available nonclinical data as well as the clinical 
evidence available for the two components alone or in combination. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  submitted  environmental  risk  assessment  (ERA)  includes  a  phase  II  tier  A  analysis.  However,  the 
ERA Phase II tier A analyses for clopidogrel have not been completed.  
The  adsorption/desorption  study  (OECD106)  submitted  with  the  Applicant`s  responses  to  the  CHMP 
D120  LOQ  (List  of  Questions)  indicate  that  clopidogrel  is  not  expected  to  pose  a  risk  to  the  terrestrial 
compartment.  The  aerobic  transformation  study  in  aquatic  sediment  system  (OECD308),  also  submitted 
with  the  Applicant`s  responses  to  the  CHMP  D120  LOQ,  indicates  the  need  to  perform  a  sediment 
organism toxicity test.  
The applicant commits to submit an updated ERA that includes the ongoing and agreed studies, namely: 
the log Kow determination and if required a bioconcentration test (OECD 305), the repetition of the 
activated sludge respiration inhibition test (OECD 209) and the consequent revision of the PEC/PNEC 
ratio, and the sediment organism toxicity test. The commitment includes identifying the metabolite 
(transformation product > 10% as well as in water as in sediment, detected in chromatography region 4) as 
requested in OECD guideline 308. 
This was acceptable to CHMP. 
Page 14 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The  pharmacological  and  toxicological  profile  of  clopidogrel  and  acetylsalicylic  acid  are  well  known 
(from Iscover supportive studies and from published studies in animals, men and in vitro models). 
As there is no evidence to suggest a possible negative interaction between clopidogrel and ASA, and both 
drugs have been extensively used in humans in monotherapy or in combination for a long period and the 
safety of this combination is well documented, nonclinical studies with the clopidogrel/ASA combination 
are not considered necessary. Non-clinical studies with clopidogrel/ASA fixed dose combination have not 
been  performed.  The  rationale  for  the  pharmacological  association  has  some  supportive  primary 
pharmacology studies in animals. Three published studies, one of which dated 2006 have been submitted.  
It is considered that the existing clinical experience is the supportive information for DuoCover efficacy 
and safety and therefore specific nonclinical studies with the clopidogrel/ASA fixed dose combination are 
not needed. Concerns regarding the reproductive toxicity profile, particularly of aspirin in relation to early 
pregnancy  (embryofoetal  development)  or  late  pregnancy  (dystocia  and  foetal  mortality)  have  been 
addressed by adding precautionary information in section 4.3 and 4.6 of the SPC, to appropriately restrict 
its use.  
Studies  in  rats  have  shown  that  clopidogrel  and/or  its  metabolites  are  excreted  in  the  milk  and  breast-
feeding should not be continued during treatment with DuoCover. 
An updated ERA is requested, but this does not impact on the approval of Clopidogrel/ASA fixed dose 
combination. Therefore, from a nonclinical perspective, the file is satisfactory and no non-clinical follow-
up measures other than those related to ERA are raised. 
2.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  active  substances  in  the  fixed-dose  combination  DuoCover,  i.e.  clopidogrel  (75  mg)  and 
acetylsalicylic  acid  (ASA)  (75  mg  or  100  mg  as  film-coated  immediate-release  tablet  formulations)  are 
already  approved  for  combination  therapy  of  ACS  (see  details  in  section  3.1  “Introduction”  to  the 
Scientific Discussion) 
The use of a fixed-dose combination tablet instead of the individual administration of the two compounds 
is expected to be more convenient to patients. This fixed-dose combination of antiplatelet agents is aimed 
to  cover  a  substitution  therapy  of  clopidogrel  and  ASA  administered  at  the  same  dose  level,  dosing 
interval,  and  dose  timing  in  the  indications  where  the  labeling  of  clopidogrel  mentions  it  should  be 
administered concomitantly with ASA.  
Bioequivalence  studies  testing  the  rate  and  extent  of  absorption  of  each  component  of  the  fixed-dose 
combination  as  compared  to  each  substance  administered  in  monotherapy  are  the  only  clinical  studies 
performed with the fixed-dose combination.  
The  applicant  provided  a  letter  of  access  to  all  data  previously  submitted  for  clopidogrel,  which  is 
authorised in the EEA via a Centralised procedure (EMEA/H/C/0175 - EU/1/98/070- Iscover), along with 
clinical summary data for clopidogrel (mainly based on the existing clopidogrel MA dossier) and for ASA 
(literature data). 
The applicant did not seek Scientific Advice from the CHMP for this development. 
A paediatric development is not planned for this fixed dose combination. 
Page 15 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  development  strategy  for  DuoCover  focused  on  demonstration  of  bioequivalence 
between this FDC product and the concurrently administered individual dosage forms.  
This section provides a summary of the available pharmacokinetic data on the individual active substances 
(previously  submitted  clinical  data  for  clopidogrel  and  literature data  for  acetylsalicylic  acid)  as  well  as 
details of the additional clinical studies specific for the fixed-dose combination. 
•  Absorption  
Clopidogrel 
After oral administration in humans, clopidogrel is well and rapidly absorbed.  Its absorption is estimated 
to be at least 50% and maximum plasma concentration is reached 45 minutes post-dose. After a single oral 
dose of 75 mg, clopidogrel has a half-life of approximately 6 hours. Clopidogrel is a pro-drug. The active 
metabolite, a thiol derivative, is formed by oxidation to 2-oxo-clopidogrel and subsequent hydrolysis most 
likely  during  the  first-pass  processes.  The  active  metabolite  is  a  very  reactive  molecular  entity    which 
binds irreversibly to platelet ADP receptors. 
After oral administration, the major circulating metabolite of clopidogrel is a pharmacologically inactive 
de-esterified carboxylic acid metabolite (SR26334). SR26334 represents 85% of the total radioactivity in 
plasma following a single administration of [14C] clopidogrel 75 mg. SR26334 has an elimination half-
life of 7 to 8 hours after both single and multiple dose administration of clopidogrel 75 mg once daily. 
This metabolite is detected quickly in the plasma of healthy subjects after single oral administration of 75 
mg of clopidogrel, with peak plasma levels of approximately 3000 ng/ml, 0.5 to 0.8 hours post-dose and is 
quantifiable over 36 to 48 hours post-dose.  
ASA 
Following absorption ASA is hydrolysed to salicylic acid (SA) with peak plasma levels of SA occurring 
within 1-1.5 hours of dosing, such that plasma levels of ASA are essentially undetectable 1.5-4 hours after 
dosing.  
-Bioequivalence 
An  application  was  initially  submitted  in  May  2007  for  2  film-coated  immediate-release  tablet 
formulations of clopidogrel and ASA, each containing 75 mg clopidogrel and 2 doses of ASA, i.e., 75 and 
100  mg.  In  this  initial  application,  bioequivalence  was  documented  based  on  carboxylic  acid  inactive 
metabolite  of  clopidogrel  (SR26334),  ASA,  and  salicylic  acid  (SA).  The  application  was  withdrawn  in 
May  2008  further  to  the  CHMP’s  request  regarding  the  need  to  document  bioequivalence  based  on 
clopidogrel plasma levels in accordance to note for guidance on the Investigation on Bioavailability and 
Bioequivalence  in  force  (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98)  and  a  Question  &  Answers  on  the  Bioavailability 
and  Bioequivalence  Guideline  (EMEA/CHMP/EWP/40326/2006).  To  address  the  CHMP’s  request  the 
applicant  performed  a  new  bioequivalence  study  measuring  plasma  levels  of  clopidogrel  in  addition  to 
SR26334, ASA, and SA. 
Page 16 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Three  bioequivalence  studies  were  performed  to  support  this  application.    A  new  study  evaluated 
bioequivalence  of  the  clopidogrel  75 mg/ASA  100 mg  strength  based  on  the  parent  compounds  (i.e., 
clopidogrel  and  ASA),  the  main  inactive  metabolites  of  clopidogrel  (SR26334)  and  ASA  (SA)  being 
provided  as  supportive  data  ([BEQ10600]).  The  2 other  studies,  submitted  previously,  evaluated  the 
bioequivalence of the clopidogrel 75 mg /ASA 75 mg ([BDR4659]) and clopidogrel 75 mg/ASA 100 mg 
([BDR5000])  strengths  based  on  ASA,  SA,  and  SR26334.  The  studies  were  performed  in  fasting 
conditions.  
Bioequivalence  testing  based  on  parent  clopidogrel  was  not  performed  in  the  latter  2 studies.  The  new 
bioequivalence  study  (BEQ10600)  is  the  basis  to  demonstrate  the  bioequivalence  of  the  clopidogrel 
75 mg/ASA  100 mg  strength,  study  BDR5000  being  provided  as  supportive  study.  Study  BDR4659 
assesses the demonstration of the bioequivalence for the ASA part of the clopidogrel 75 mg/ASA 75 mg 
strength based on ASA (parent compound).  For this strength, a waiver was sought for not having tested 
the bioequivalence based on parent clopidogrel, considering the similarity of the clopidogrel granules (75 
mg  in  the  two  fixed-combination  tablets)  and  dissolution  profile  of  clopidogrel  with  the  highest 
combination  strength  (clopidogrel  75mg/ASA 100 mg),  and  the  demonstration  of  the  bioequivalence 
based on clopidogrel in this combination strength. 
Marketed clopidogrel 75 mg film-coated tablets as well as ASA immediate-release tablets (European: 75 
mg  and  100  mg  and  US:  325  mg),  were  used  as  reference  tablets.  Since  the  ASA  blend  of  the 
clopidogrel/ASA  tablets  is  an  immediate-release  formulation,  reference  ASA  tablets  were  marketed 
immediate-release formulations with in vitro dissolution profiles similar to that of the immediate-release 
clopidogrel/ASA tablets. Given the wide range of ASA formulations available on the market (immediate-
release  tablet,  effervescent    tablet,  buffered  tablet,  enteric-coated  tablet,  powder  for  solution),  and  that 
these  can  result  in  different  absorption  rates  of  ASA,  a  formulation  similar  to  the  one  used  in  the  fixed 
combination (i.e., immediate release) has been used for the bioequivalence study.  
Dissolution studies for the formulations used in the bioequivalence studies  
The dissolution profiles for clopidogrel were equivalent between the clopidogrel/ASA tablets and 75 mg 
clopidogrel  tablet.  In  addition,  the  statistical  calculation  (similarity  factor,  f2)  performed  for  the 
clopidogrel  dissolution  results  further  confirm  the  equivalence  of  the  in  vitro  profiles.  The  dissolution 
profiles  for  ASA  were  equivalent  between  the  clopidogrel/ASA  tablets  and  the  ASA  tablets  of 
corresponding strengths. Given that ASA dissolves quickly at all pH ranges (≥85% within 15 minutes), the 
similarity factor was not calculated.  
Dissolution studies for the commercial batches  
In  vitro  dissolution  profiles  for  clopidogrel/ASA  75/75,  75/100,  75/150,  and  75/325  tablets  were 
performed  in  order  to  demonstrate  comparability  of  commercial  tablets  batches  to  those  used  in  the 
bioequivalence studies. The f2 factors calculated for clopidogrel profiles were greater than 50.  
The comparison of the dissolution profiles clopidogrel 75 mg/ ASA 100 mg tablets versus the Iscover® 75 
mg  reference  tablets  and  versus  Aspirin®  N  Bayer  100  mg  reference  tablets  are  performed  as 
complementary information to bioequivalence study BEQ10600. 
The statistical calculation (similarity factor: f2) performed for clopidogrel dissolution results demonstrated 
the similarity of the dissolution between the 2 tablets at pH 4.5 and 6.8 (f2 value >50) while f2 value was 
slightly  below  50  (48)  at  pH  2.0.  Nevertheless,  the  bioequivalence  was  demonstrated  for  clopidogrel 
between the 2 formulations in clinical bioequivalence study BEQ10600 
Page 17 of 37 
The comparative in vitro dissolution profiles at pH 2.0, 4.5, and 6.8 for clopidogrel 75 mg/ ASA 75 mg 
tablets    versus  clopidogrel  75  mg/  ASA  100  mg  reference  tablets  were  performed.  The  batch  of 
clopidogrel 75 mg/ ASA 100 mg reference tablets used for this comparative in vitro dissolution study is 
the one used in clinical bioequivalence study BEQ10600. 
For  clopidogrel,  the  f2  factors  calculated  for  clopidogrel  dissolution  results  are  >50  regardless  the  pH  
demonstrating the similarity of the dissolution between the 2 tablets. 
Primary  objective,  study  design,  test  formulations,  and  reference  formulations  for  the  newly  submitted 
bioequivalence study and the 2 previously submitted bioequivalence studies are listed in the table 1 below. 
Table 1 
Study  BDR4659:  Bioequivalence  between  a  tablet  containing  75  mg  of  SR25990C  and  75  mg  of 
acetylsalicylic acid and the simultaneous administration of the separate formulations of the two drugs, to 
young healthy subjects. Open, crossover, randomized and single centre. 
Table 2 
Page 18 of 37 
 
 
 
Results are shown below in table 3 and figure 1: 
Table 3 
Mean (CV%) pharmacokinetic parameters of SR26334, salicylic acid, and ASA, treatment ratio 
estimates and 90% CI’s for clopidogrel/ASA 75/75 mg tablets versus 75 mg clopidogrel tablets and 
75 mg ASA tablets (N=40) 
Figure 1 
Mean (SD) SR26334 plasma concentrations observed after a single oral administration of one COMBO 
tablet containing clopidogrel 75 mg and ASA 75 mg or 2 separate tablets of the 2 drugs – linear and semi-
logarithmic scale (n=40) 
Page 19 of 37 
 
 
Mean (SD) SA and ASA plasma concentrations observed after a single oral 
administration of one COMBO tablet containing clopidogrel 75 mg and ASA 75 mg or 
2 separate tablets of the 2 drugs 
Study  BDR5000:  Bioequivalence  between  a  tablet  containing  75  mg  of  SR25990C  and  100  mg  of 
acetylsalicylic acid and the simultaneous administration of the separate formulations of the two drugs, to 
young healthy subjects. Open, crossover, randomized and single centre. 
Table 4 
Page 20 of 37 
 
 
Results are shown in table 5 and figure 2 below: 
Table 5:Mean (CV%) pharmacokinetic parameters of SR26334, salicylic acid, and ASA, treatment 
ratio estimates and 90% CI’s for clopidogrel/ASA 75/100 mg tablets versus 75 mg clopidogrel 
tablets and 100 mg ASA tablets (N=40) 
Figure 2 
Mean (SD) SR26334 plasma concentrations observed after a single 
oral administration of one COMBO tablet containing clopidogrel 75 mg and ASA 100 mg 
or 2 separate tablets of the 2 drugs – linear and semi-logarithmic scale (n=40) 
Page 21 of 37 
 
 
 
 
Mean (SD) SA and ASA plasma concentrations observed after a single oral 
administration of one COMBO tablet containing clopidogrel 75 mg and ASA 100 mg or 2 separate tablets 
of the 2 drugs 
STUDY  BEQ10600:  An  open-label,  randomized,  single-dose,  two-sequence  crossover  bioequivalence  study 
comparing  a  tablet  containing  75  mg  of  SR25990C  and  100  mg  of  acetylsalicylic  acid  versus  the  simultaneous 
administration of the separate formulations of the two drugs in healthy young male and female subjects 
Study  design:  An  open-label,  randomized,  single-dose,  two-sequence,  two-period,  two-treatment 
crossover  study  with  at  least  10-day  washout  period  between  the  two  administrations  by  oral  route  in 
fasted conditions. 
Number of subjects 
Planned:  120  randomized  subjects  for  at  least  114  assessable  subjects  (a  minimum  of  30%  of  either 
gender) 
Completed: 113 
Evaluated Pharmacokinetics: 121 (117 assessable for each formulation); Safety: 121 
Test and reference products 
Fixed  dose  combination  75  mg  clopidogrel  +  100  mg  ASA,  single  dose  versus  75  mg  Clopidogrel 
(Plavix® ) as a tablet co-administered with Aspirin® 100 mg as a tablet 
Pharmacokinetics 
Primary analysis: Assessment of bioequivalence on clopidogrel and ASA: 
For log transformed Cmax (except for ASA), AUC and AUClast, the relative bioavailability between the two 
formulations  was  assessed  using  a  linear  mixed  effects  model  with  fixed  terms  for  formulation,  period, 
sequence, and sex, and with an unstructured R variance covariance matrix for subject within sequence-by-
sex blocks using SAS PROC MIXED. 
Estimates  and  90%  confidence  intervals  (CIs)  for  the  ratios  of  geometric  means  between  the  two 
formulations were obtained by computing estimates and 90% CIs for the differences between formulation 
means within the mixed model, and converting to ratios by the antilog transformation. Equivalence was 
concluded if the 90% CIs for the ratios of primary criteria parameters are entirely within the 0.80 to 1.25 
equivalence specifications. 
Secondary analysis: Assessment of bioequivalence on SR26334 and SA 
Page 22 of 37 
 
For SR26334 and SA, the ratios for Cmax, AUC, and AUClast were estimated with their 90% CIs, based on 
SR26334  and  SA  PK  data  using  the  same  model  structure  as  in  the  primary  analysis.  ASA  Cmax  was 
analyzed in the same way. 
Results are shown in the tables 6 and figure 3 below. 
Figure 3: 
Mean (SD) clopidogrel concentrations after 75 mg single dose when 
administered in a separate tablet or in a combination tablet in linear 
scale over 3 hours 
Mean clopidogrel concentrations after 75 mg single dose when 
administered in a separate tablet or in a combination tablet in linear 
scale over 3 hours 
Mean clopidogrel concentrations after 75 mg single dose when administered in a separate tablet or in a combination tablet 
Page 23 of 37 
 
 
Table 6: 
Figure 4: 
Mean (SD) ASA concentrations after ASA 100 mg single dose when 
administered in a separate tablet or in a combination tablet in 
linear scale 
Mean ASA concentrations after ASA 100 mg single dose when 
administered in a separate tablet or in a combination tablet in 
semilogarithmic scale 
Page 24 of 37 
 
 
 
Table 7: 
Page 25 of 37 
 
 
 
Table 8: 
Table 9: 
Page 26 of 37 
 
 
 
Discussion on bio-equivalence 
The  formulation  chosen  by  the  applicant  for  the  fixed  combination  consists  of  a  film-coated  tablet 
containing two active substances:clopidogrel and ASA. The clopidogrel granules were prepared with the 
same  granules  used  to  produce  clopidogrel  (75  mg  tablets).  The  blend  containing  ASA  is  qualitatively 
similar and proportionally similar between the different strengths. 
Compared to the previous application, which was withdrawn by the applicant, the current dossier contains 
one new study seeking to establish bioequivalence between the fixed dose combination of clopidogrel (75 
mg)  and  ASA  (100  mg)  and  separate  tablets  of  the  same  strengths  of  clopidogrel  and  ASA.  The  study 
demonstrates  bioequivalence  for  both  AUC  and  Cmax  based  on  parent  compound  data.  The  study  also 
demonstrates  bioequivalence  for  ASA  clopidogrel  based  on  parent  compound  plasma  concentrations  for 
AUC but not for Cmax. The applicant argues that this is not clinically relevant  “Given the various types of 
ASA formulations available on the market (immediate-release tablet, effervescent tablet, buffered tablet, 
enteric-coated tablet, powder for solution), and recognizing that these can result in differences in the rate 
of  absorption  of  ASA,  a  formulation  similar  to  the  one  used  in  the  fixed  combination  (i.e.,  immediate 
release)  has  been  used  as  reference  for  the  bioequivalence  studies”.  Furthermore  “Considering  the  large 
number of ASA formulations on the market with an approved indication in the cardiovascular field, the 
clinical  practice  and  the  clinical  studies  evaluating  the  benefit/risk  of  clopidogrel  in  combination  with 
ASA,  the  slight  difference  in  ASA  Cmax  is  considered  as  clinically  non-relevant”.  This  justification  is 
accepted by the CHMP. 
Moreover,  the  applicant  submits  supportive  data  from  the  same  study  and  from  two  other  previously 
submitted studies for the inactive metabolite of clopidogrel SR26334 and for the ASA metabolite salicylic 
acid (SA). AUC and Cmax for both compounds comply with bioequivalence requirements.  
In  conclusion,  based  on  data  from  the  new  bioequivalence  study  and  supportive  data,  as  well  as  the 
argumentation  that  there  is  a  large  range  of  ASA  products  in  the  market  that  have  been  used  with  an 
approved  indication  in  the  cardiovascular  field,  the  slight  difference  in  ASA  Cmax  can  be  considered  as 
clinically non-relevant. Therefore the fixed dose combination of clopidogrel (75 mg) and ASA (100 mg) is 
considered bio-equivalent to separate tablets of the same strengths of clopidogrel and ASA. 
The applicant provided evidence of fulfilment of the conditions as stated in the Note for Guidance on the 
Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence  (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98).  Therefore  it  is 
acceptable to grant a biowaiver for the strength of the FDC with clopidogrel (75 mg) and ASA (75 mg) 
•  Distribution 
Clopidogrel  and  SR26334  are  highly  bound  to  plasma  proteins  with  no  saturation  within  a  range  of 
concentrations encompassing those reached at therapeutic doses.  
ASA  is  poorly  bound  to  plasma  proteins  and  its  apparent  volume  of  distribution  is  low  (10L).  Its 
metabolite, salicylic acid (SA), is highly bound to plasma proteins and it shows a concentration dependent 
binding (nonlinear). At low concentrations (< 100mg/L) approximately 90% of SA is bound to albumin. 
SA  is  widely  distributed  to  all  tissues  and  fluids,  including  the  central  nervous  system,  breast  milk  and 
foetal tissues. 
Page 27 of 37 
 
 
 
•  Elimination 
Clopidogrel 
In humans, clopidogrel is highly metabolized primarily by 2 main pathways: 
•  One  leading  to  the  formation  of  the  active  metabolite  and  mediated  by  several  CYPs  including  the 
CYP2C19, CYP3A4, CYP2B6 and CYP1A2. 
•  The  other  mediated  by  esterases  and  leading  to  the  formation  of  the  carboxylic  acid  metabolite 
SR26334 which is inactive. 
A reliable assay for the active metabolite has only recently become available but there is enough evidence 
that clopidogrel is a prodrug exerting its anti platelet activity through its active unstable metabolite, which 
binds irreversibly to the ADP platelet P2Y12 receptor. The active metabolite is formed in a 2 step reaction 
(1)  formation  of  2-oxo-clopidogrel;  and  (2)  followed  by  hydrolysis  forming  a  structure  with  an  opened 
thiophene  ring,  a  highly  reactive  thiol  function  and  a  free  carboxylic  group.  Both  steps  are  mediated 
through a CYP-450 dependent pathway of metabolism. The precise extent of involvement of each of these 
has not been determined. 
The metabolic pathways for clopidogrel are provided in figure 5 below 
Figure 5  
In plasma, the main circulating compound was the acid metabolite SR26334, representing 85% of the total 
radioactivity circulating in plasma and  which is not active. Two  other  minor metabolites  were detected: 
the  glucuronide  conjugate  of  SR26334  and  2-oxo  thiomethyl  clopidogrel.  In  urine,  SR26334  and  its 
glucuronoconjugated  forms  were  the  main  metabolites  identified.  No  unchanged  clopidogrel  was 
recovered in urine.  
SR26334 has an elimination half-life of 7 to 8 hours after both single and multiple dose administration of 
clopidogrel 75 mg once daily. 
Interaction of CYP3A4 inhibitors and inducers with clopidogrel is sufficiently illustrated. 
The excretion of clopidogrel, following a single dose of 75 mg of [14C] clopidogrel given alone or at the 
end  of  a  ten-day  dosing  period  of  unlabelled  drug,  accounted  for  92-98%  of  the  radioactive  dose 
administered,  equivalent  percentages  being  excreted  through  the  faecal  and  urinary  routes  (46  and  50% 
Page 28 of 37 
 
 
 
respectively). From the newly submitted bioequivalence study, the half-life of clopidogrel is ca. 6 h with 
an overall variability of 34 – 40%. 
ASA 
The ASA in DuoCover is rapidly hydrolyzed in plasma to salicylic acid, with a half-life of 0.3 to 0.4 hours 
for ASA doses from 75 to 100 mg. Salicylic acid is primarily conjugated in the liver to form salicyluric 
acid,  a  phenolic  glucuronide,  an  acyl  glucuronide,  and  a  number  of  minor  metabolites.  Salicylic  acid  in 
DuoCover  has  a  plasma  half-life  of  approximately  2 hours.  Salicylate  metabolism  is  saturable  and  total 
body clearance decreases at higher serum concentrations due to the limited ability of the liver to form both 
salicyluric  acid  and  phenolic  glucuronide.  Following  toxic  doses  (1020 g),  the  plasma  half-life  may  be 
increased  to  over  20 hours.  At  high  ASA  doses,  the  elimination  of  salicylic  acid  follows  zero-order 
kinetics (i.e., the rate of elimination is constant in relation to plasma concentration), with an apparent half-
life  of  6 hours  or  higher.  Renal  excretion  of  unchanged  active  substance  depends  upon  urinary  pH.  As 
urinary pH rises above 6.5, the renal clearance of free salicylate increases from <5% to >80%. Following 
therapeutic doses, approximately 10% is found excreted in the urine as salicylic acid, 75% as salicyluric 
acid, 10% phenolic- and 5% acyl-glucuronides of salicylic acid.  
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
The  dose  proportionality  of  clopidogrel  was  assessed  using  data  on  its  main  metabolite  SR26334. 
Clopidogrel  SR26334  exhibits  dose  independent  kinetics.  In  a  range  from  50  to  150  mg  of  clopidogrel, 
SR26334  exposures  (as  measured  by  Cmax  and  AUC)  increased  in  a  dose  proportional  manner.  After 
repeated administration of clopidogrel 75 mg, the steady state of SR26334 was reached by Day 3, with an 
accumulation ratio of about 1.1. The pharmacokinetics of SR26334 remained linear over time and single 
dose pharmacokinetics of SR26334 predicts its steady state pharmacokinetics. 
Following toxic doses (10 to 20g) of ASA, the plasma half-life of SA may be increased to over 20 hours. 
At  high  ASA  doses,  the  elimination  of  salicylic  acid  follows  zero-order  kinetics  (i.e.,  the  rate  of 
elimination is constant in relation to plasma concentration), with an apparent half-life of 6 hours or higher.  
•  Special populations 
No studies were conducted in children. 
The pharmacokinetics of the active metabolite of clopidogrel is not known in special populations. 
Renal impairment 
After  repeated  doses  of  75 mg  clopidogrel  per  day  in  subjects  with  severe  renal  disease  (creatinine 
clearance from 5 to 15 ml/min), inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation was lower (25%) than that 
observed  in  healthy  subjects,  however,  the  prolongation  of  bleeding  time  was  similar  to  that  seen  in 
healthy  subjects  receiving  75 mg  of  clopidogrel  per  day.  In  addition,  clinical  tolerance  was  good  in  all 
patients.  
Hepatic impairment 
After repeated doses of 75 mg clopidogrel per day for 10 days in patients with severe hepatic impairment, 
inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation was similar to that observed in healthy subjects. The mean 
bleeding time prolongation was also similar in the two groups.  
Page 29 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
The applicant discussed the possible mechanisms of interaction for either clopidogrel on ASA or ASA on 
clopidogrel:  protein  binding  displacement  (both  clopidogrel  and  salicylic  acid  are  strongly  bound  to 
albumin)  and  esterase  metabolism  (both  clopidogrel  and  ASA  are  de-esterified  in  one  of  the  respective 
metabolic pathways). None of these mechanisms is likely to be responsible for interactions.  
No food interaction is reported for the ASA tablet. The applicant`s data for clopidogrel from studies on 
pharmacodynamics and indirect measures of the inactive metabolite, showed that clopidogrel absorption is 
not  influenced  by  food.  At  400  mg,  where  clopidogrel  Cmax  and  pharmacodynamic  parameters  were 
investigated, no effect is observed. In addition, no recommendations for clopidogrel intake were specified 
in studies EFC3307 (CURE), EFC5133 (CLARITY) and EFC7018 (COMMIT) as well as in the Summary 
of Product Characteristics for clopidogrel.  
However  new  evidence  suggested  that  there  is  a  significant  food  effect,  when  measuring  unchanged 
clopidogrel  plasma  concentrations.  Using  an  analytical  technique  for  unchanged  clopidogrel,  the 
investigation of food intake influence on the bioavailability of clopidogrel has been recently investigated4. 
The data available so far, show that food intake clearly increases the BA of clopidogrel (500 up to 600 %) 
and  enhances  moderately  the  systemic  exposure  to  the  major  but  inactive  carboxy-acid  metabolite 
(approximately  10-20  %).  In  response  to  the  CHMP  D120  LOQ  the  applicant  commented  on  these 
contradictory  results.  The  applicant  addressed  these  concerns  adequately:  one  PK  and  PD  study 
demonstrated that even though there is a marked effect of food on the absorption of clopidogrel (several 
fold  increase  in  both  AUC  and  Cmax)  this  effect  does  not  translate  into  significant  effects  on  the  active 
metabolite AUC and on the PD effect (platelet aggregation assay). 
Based on the data available to date, CHMP concludes that food slightly decreases the rate of absorption of 
ASA, but does not significantly modify the extent of absorption. Therefore no special recommendation for 
the administration of clopidogrel with regard to food has been included in the SPC. DuoCover may be 
given with or without food. 
Discussion on clinical pharmacokinetics 
No  major  issues  have  been  identified  in  the  pharmacokinetics  section  of  this  dossier.    However  at  the 
request of CHMP the applicant addressed a few concerns, mainly related to the food effect and the extent 
to which genetic polymorphism affects clopidogrel pharmacokinetics of metabolites. 
Clopidogrel  is  a  prodrug.  The  active  metabolite,  a  thiol  derivative,  is  formed  by  oxidation  to  2-oxo-
clopidogrel  and  subsequent  hydrolysis.  The  oxidative  step  is  regulated  primarily  by  CYP2B6  and 
CYP3A4, which do not exhibit genetic polymorphism, and to a lesser extent by CYP1A1, CYP1A2 and 
CYP2C19, of which the two latter ones exhibit genetic polymorphism.  
The  extent  to  which  genetic  polymorphism  affects  clopidogrel  pharmacokinetics  as  related  to  the  active 
metabolite and the clinical consequences thereof was discussed by the applicant in the response to CHMP 
D120 LOQ based on preliminary data from an ongoing study. 
Based  on  the  data  submitted  to  date,  the  CHMP  consider  that  polymorphism  due  to  CYP1A2  is  of  no 
concern due to the low prevalence and the minor role that this isozyme plays in clopidogrel metabolism. 
4  2006: Nirogi  Ramakrishna  V  S;  Kandikere  Vishwottam  N;  Mudigonda  Koteshwara 
Effect  of  food  on  bioavailability  of  a  single  oral  dose  of  clopidogrel  in  healthy  male  subjects. 
Arzneimittel-Forschung 2006; 56(11):735-9. 
Page 30 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Polymorphism  due  to  CYP2C19  has  been  adequately  addressed  in  the  SPC  (Sections  4.2.  4.4,  4.5  and 
5.2); furthermore the applicant commits to amend the SPC should this be required pending the outcome of 
the CHMP analysis on interaction between clopidogrel and Proton Pump inhibitors. 
Regarding  the  food  effect,  CHMP  concluded  based  on  the  data  available  to  date  that  food  does  not 
significantly modify the extent of absorption. The applicant committed to submit study reports on ongoing 
studies, and to subsequent updates of the product information should this be required  
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Clopidogrel  and  ASA  modify  platelet  aggregation  through  2  independent  pathways  and  mechanisms  of 
action. ASA inhibits platelet aggregation by the irreversible inhibition of platelet COX and thus inhibits 
the  generation  of  thromboxane  A2  (TXA2),  an  inducer  of  platelet  aggregation  and  vasoconstriction. 
Clopidogrel is an ADP-receptor antagonist of the thienopyridine derivative class that selectively inhibits 
the binding of ADP to its platelet receptor, and the subsequent ADP-mediated activation of the GPIIb/IIIa 
complex, thereby inhibiting platelet aggregation. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
This dossier is for an application for fixed-dose combination tablets of clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid 
(ASA)  (75  mg/75  mg  and  75  mg/100  mg)  as  a  substitution  for  the  coadministration  of  the  separate 
constituents  in  the  approved  acute  coronary  syndrome  (STEMI  and  NSTEMI)  indications  (see 
CHMP/EWP/191583/2005).  Therefore,  since  the  concomitant  administration  of  the  2  drugs  for  these 
indications  at  these  dosages  has  already  been  approved,  and  the  use  of  clopidogrel  alone  in  those 
indications  is  not  recommended,  the  submission  of  clinical  pharmacodynamic  data  is  not  considered 
necessary. 
Clinical efficacy  
•  Dose response study(ies) 
•  Main study(ies)  
The efficacy of clopidogrel in combination with ASA was evaluated in ACS patients with or without ST-
segment  elevation  in  3  double-blind  studies  [EFC3307  (CURE),  EFC7018  (COMMIT/CCS-2),  and 
EFC5133  (CLARITY-TIMI  28)].  EFC3307  (CURE),  EFC7018  (COMMIT/CCS-2),  and  EFC5133 
(CLARITY-TIMI  28)  were  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  studies  comparing  clopidogrel 
75 mg/day in combination with ASA to ASA alone. In EFC7018 (COMMIT/CCS-2), the patients did not 
receive a loading dose of clopidogrel the first day, whereas in the 2 other studies a loading dose of 300 mg 
was given. Patients included in the EFC3307 (CURE) study were followed up to 12 months (minimum of 
3  months)  or  to  a  common  study  end  date  (pre-specified  as  3  months  after  the  last  patient  was 
randomized), whichever came first, and patients included in the 2 STEMI studies were followed up to 4 
weeks.  
The  clear  benefit  of  clopidogrel  in  combination  with  ASA  in  a  broad  ACS  indication  (unstable 
angina/NSTEMI and STEMI patients) demonstrated by these 3 studies, supported the registration in these 
indications in Europe, as well as in the US and in other countries. 
In  these  indications  the  standard  approved  regimen  of  clopidogrel  is  a  single  300  mg  loading  dose 
followed by a 75 mg clopidogrel dose once daily, in combination with ASA. The daily dose of ASA used 
in  the  studies  described  above  ranged  from  75  to  325  mg  once  daily.  Since  higher  doses  of  ASA  were 
Page 31 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
associated  with  higher  bleeding  risk,  the  EU  SPC  for  clopidogrel  recommends  that  the  dose  of  ASA 
should not be higher than 100 mg daily; hence the doses of ASA in the current application. 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
Clopidogrel in association with ASA is a widely used association in ACS patients, and the safety of each 
component separately as well as in association is well known. The safety data supporting the benefits of a 
fixed-dose combination of clopidogrel with ASA (75/75 mg; 75/100 mg) in ACS patients without or with 
ST-elevation MI (NSTEMI and STEMI) are provided by the results of 3 studies: 1) in NSTEMI patients 
EFC3307/CURE that included 12 562 patients; and 2) in STEMI patients, EFC7018/COMMIT/CCS-2 that 
included 45 852 patients and 3) EFC5133/CLARITY-TIMI 28 that included 3491 patients.  
No  safety  concern  was  raised  in  the  bioequivalence  studies  and  pharmacovigilance  data  on  clopidogrel. 
Even if this population (using clopidogrel in combination with ASA) cannot be formally identified, it is 
included in the general post-marketing surveillance data of clopidogrel collected by the company. 
•  Adverse events/serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Safety  data  on  ASA  in  the  ACS  indication  is  reflected  by  the  Summaries  of  Product  Characteristics 
approved  in  the  different  EU  member  states.  Bleeding  is  the  most  common  reaction  reported  both  in 
clinical  studies  as  well  as  in  post-marketing  experience  where  it  was  mostly  reported  during  the  first 
month  of  treatment.  Since  the  approval  of  the  non-ST-segment  elevation  ACS  indication  in  2002  for 
clopidogrel in association with ASA, no safety signal related to this association has been detected in the 
post-marketing surveillance. 
To  reflect  the  safety  data  of  each  compound  of  the  fixed-dose  combination,  the  proposed  Summary  of 
Product Characteristics for this clopidogrel/ASA fixed-dose combination product has been prepared based 
on the current European Union Summary of Product Characteristics for clopidogrel hydrogen sulphate (30 
October  2008)  and  on  various  European  Union  Summaries  of  Product  Characteristics  for  low-dose 
acetylsalicylic acid products that included an indication for secondary prevention of risk of mortality, or 
for secondary prevention of thrombotic cerebrovascular, or cardiovascular disease. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Commonly  occurring  laboratory  findings  are  prolonged  bleeding  time,  decreased  neutrophil  count,  and 
decreased platelet count. Very rare laboratory findings are: abnormal liver function test, blood creatinine 
increased. 
•  Safety in special populations 
The safety and efficacy of DuoCover in children and adolescents have not been established. 
Therapeutic  experience  with  clopidogrel  plus  ASA  is  limited  in  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  renal 
impairment.  Therefore  DuoCover  should  be  used  with  caution  in  these  patients.  DuoCover  must  not  be 
used in patients with severe renal impairment (SPC Sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4) 
Therapeutic  experience  is  limited  in  patients  with  moderate  hepatic  disease  who  may  have  bleeding 
diatheses. DuoCover should therefore be used with caution in this population. DuoCover must not be used 
in patients with severe hepatic impairment. (SPC Sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4) 
Page 32 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Based on the available experience with combined use of clopidogrel plus ASA, the following information 
has been proposed for the DuoCover SPC Section 4.5: 
Oral  anticoagulants:  the  concomitant  administration  of  DuoCover  with  oral  anticoagulants  is  not 
recommended since it may increase the intensity of bleeding (see section 4.4). 
Glycoprotein  IIb/IIIa  inhibitors:  DuoCover  should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  who  receive 
concomitant glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (see section 4.4). 
Heparin: in a clinical study conducted in healthy subjects, clopidogrel did not necessitate modification of 
the heparin dose or alter the effect of heparin on coagulation. Co-administration of heparin had no effect 
on the inhibition of platelet aggregation induced by clopidogrel. A pharmacodynamic interaction between 
DuoCover  and  heparin  is  possible,  leading  to  increased  risk  of  bleeding.  Therefore,  concomitant  use 
should be undertaken with caution (see section 4.4). 
Thrombolytics:  the  safety  of  the  concomitant  administration  of  clopidogrel,  fibrin  or  non-fibrin  specific 
thrombolytic agents and heparins was assessed in patients with acute myocardial infarction. The incidence 
of clinically significant bleeding was similar to that observed when thrombolytic agents and heparin are 
co-administered  with  ASA  (see  section  4.8).  The  safety  of  the  concomitant  administration  of  DuoCover 
with other thrombolytic agents has not been formally established and should be undertaken with caution 
(see section 4.4). 
NSAIDs: in a clinical study conducted in healthy volunteers, the concomitant administration of clopidogrel 
and naproxen increased occult gastrointestinal blood loss. Consequently, the concomitant use of NSAIDs 
including Cox-2 inhibitors is not recommended (see section 4.4). 
Experimental data suggest that ibuprofen may inhibit the effect of low dose aspirin on platelet aggregation 
when they are dosed concomitantly. However, the limitations of these data and the uncertainties regarding 
extrapolation  of  ex vivo  data  to  the  clinical  situation  imply  that  no  firm  conclusions  can  be  made  for 
regular ibuprofen use, and no clinically relevant effect is considered to be likely for occasional ibuprofen 
use (see section 5.1). 
Other  concomitant  therapy  with  clopidogrel:  Since  clopidogrel  is  metabolised  to  its  active  metabolite 
partly by CYP2C19, use of medicinal products that inhibit the activity of this enzyme would be expected 
to result in reduced drug levels of the active metabolite of clopidogrel and a reduction in clinical efficacy. 
Concomitant use of medicinal products that inhibit CYP2C19 should be discouraged (see sections 4.4 and 
5.2). 
Medicinal products that inhibit CYP2C19 include omeprazole and esomeprazole, fluvoxamine, fluoxetine, 
moclobemide,  voriconazole, 
ticlopidine,  ciprofloxacin,  cimetidine,  carbamazepine, 
oxcarbazepine and chloramphenicol. 
fluconazole, 
Proton Pump Inhibitors: Although the evidence of CYP2C19 inhibition varies within the class of Proton 
Pump Inhibitors, clinical studies suggest an interaction between clopidogrel and possibly all members of 
this  class.  Therefore,  concomitant  use  of  Proton  Pump  Inhibitors  should  be  avoided  unless  absolutely 
necessary.  There  is  no  evidence  that  other  medicinal  products  that  reduce  stomach  acid  such  as  H2 
blockers or antacids interfere with antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel. 
A number of other clinical studies have been conducted with clopidogrel and other concomitant medicinal 
products  to  investigate  the  potential  for  pharmacodynamic  and  pharmacokinetic  (PK)  interactions.  No 
Page 33 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
clinically significant pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when clopidogrel was co-administered 
with atenolol, nifedipine, or both atenolol and nifedipine. Furthermore, the pharmacodynamic activity of 
clopidogrel  was  not  significantly  influenced  by  the  co-administration  of  phenobarbital,  cimetidine,  or 
oestrogen. 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  digoxin  or  theophylline  were  not  modified  by  the  co-administration  of 
clopidogrel. Antacids did not modify the extent of clopidogrel absorption. 
Data  from  studies  with  human  liver  microsomes  indicated  that  the  carboxylic  acid  metabolite  of 
clopidogrel  could  inhibit  the  activity  of  Cytochrome  P450  2C9.  This  could  potentially  lead  to  increased 
plasma  levels  of  medicinal  products  such  as  phenytoin  and  tolbutamide  and  the  NSAIDs,  which  are 
metabolised  by  Cytochrome  P450  2C9.  Data  from  the  CAPRIE  study  indicate  that  phenytoin  and 
tolbutamide can be safely co-administered with clopidogrel. 
Other  concomitant  therapy  with  ASA:  Interactions  with  the  following  medicinal  products  have  been 
reported with ASA: 
Uricosurics  (benzbromarone, probenecid, sulfinpyrazone): Caution is required  because  ASA  may inhibit 
the effect of uricosuric agents through competitive elimination of uric acid. 
Methotrexate: Due to the presence of ASA, methotrexate used at doses higher than 20 mg/week should be 
used with caution with DuoCover as it can inhibit renal clearance of methotrexate, which may lead to bone 
marrow toxicity.  
Other  interactions  with  ASA:  Interactions  with  the  following  medicinal  products  with  higher 
(anti-inflammatory)  doses  of  ASA  have  also  been  reported:  angiotensin  converting  enzyme  (ACE) 
inhibitors, acetazolamide, anticonvulsants (phenytoin and valproic acid), beta blockers, diuretics, and oral 
hypoglycemic agents.  
Other interactions with clopidogrel and ASA: More than 30,000 patients entered into clinical trials with 
clopidogrel  plus  ASA  at  maintenance  doses  lower  than  or  equal  to  325 mg,  and  received  a  variety  of 
concomitant  medicinal  products  including  diuretics,  beta blockers,  ACE  Inhibitors,  calcium  antagonists, 
cholesterol  lowering  agents,  coronary  vasodilators,  antidiabetic  agents  (including  insulin),  antiepileptic 
agents and GPIIb/IIIa antagonists without evidence of clinically significant adverse interactions. 
Apart from the specific medicinal product interaction information described above, interaction studies with 
DuoCover and some medicinal products commonly administered in patients with atherothrombotic disease 
have not been performed. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
If  the  use  of  DuoCover  is  discontinued,  patients  may  benefit  with  continuation  of  one  antiplatelet 
medicinal product. 
•  Post marketing experience 
Post marketing experience with the fixed-dose combination is very limited. The experience available for 
the combined use of clopidogrel and ASA has been discussed in the sections above. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Page 34 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Possible issues related to the risks of a fixed combination (both active substances increase bleeding risk; 
fixed  combination  is  less  flexible  with  respect  to  dose  adjustments)  were  resolved  through  the  Product 
Information (SPC Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.5). 
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant provided a justification for not submitting a Risk management plan. In view of the 
established positive benefit / risk ratio of the approved indications of clopidogrel associated with ASA, its 
safe use in extensive clinical and post-marketing experience, and the fact that the fixed-dose combination 
tablet is merely replacing co-administration of clopidogrel and ASA, the CHMP agreed that routine 
pharmacovigilance (including PSURS) is sufficient to monitor the safety profile of the FDC and did not 
require the MAA to submit a risk management 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no additional 
risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
PSURs 
The PSUR cycle of DuoCover is aligned with the one of the product Iscover, until otherwise specified. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  active  substances  and  the  medicinal  product  have  been  appropriately  characterised  and  generally 
satisfactory documentation has been provided. The excipients used in the preparation of the product and 
manufacturing process selected are typical for tablets. The results indicate that the active substances and 
the medicinal product can be reproducibly manufactured. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  pharmacological  and  toxicological  profile  of  clopidogrel  and  acetylsalicylic  acid  are  well  known 
(from Iscover supportive studies and from published studies in animals, men and in vitro models). 
As there is no evidence to suggest a possible negative interaction between clopidogrel and ASA, and both 
drugs have been extensively used in humans in monotherapy or in combination for a long period and the 
safety of this combination is well documented, nonclinical studies with the clopidogrel/ASA combination 
are not considered necessary.  
It is considered that the existing clinical experience suffices as the supportive information for DuoCover 
efficacy  and  safety  and  therefore  specific  nonclinical  studies  with  the  clopidogrel/ASA  fixed  dose 
combination are not needed. Concerns regarding the reproductive toxicity profile, particularly of aspirin in 
relation to early pregnancy (embryofoetal development) or late pregnancy (dystocia and foetal mortality) 
have  been  addressed  by  adding  precautionary  information  in  sections  4.3  and  4.6  of  the  SPC,  to 
appropriately restrict its use.  
Studies  in  rats  have  shown  that  clopidogrel  and/or  its  metabolites  are  excreted  in  the  milk  and  breast-
feeding should not be continued during treatment with DuoCover (see SPC section 4.6 and 5.3). 
Page 35 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An ERA was submitted, but not all studies were completed yet. The applicant has committed to update the 
ERA with ongoing studies. 
Efficacy 
The efficacy of the combination clopidogrel/ASA was evaluated in 3 double-blind studies including over 
60 000 patients (CURE, COMMIT and CLARITY). Based on these studies clopidogrel (in combination 
with  ASA)  received  the  indications  that  are  now  applied  for  with  this  new  fixed  combination.  As  the 
indication  claimed  for  the  fixed  combination  tablets  is  a  mere  “substitution”  indication,  no  new  clinical 
efficacy studies were performed to support this fixed combination of clopidogrel and ASA. The Applicant 
refers  to  the  “Q&A  document  on  the  clinical  development  of  fixed  combinations  of  drugs  belonging  to 
different 
and  prevention.” 
CHMP/EWP/191583/2005, and provided a letter of access to all data in the Iscover dossier.  
cardiovascular 
therapeutic 
field  of 
treatment 
classes 
the 
in 
Therefore the fixed combination dossier is mainly based on pharmacokinetic data. The assessment of data 
from  the  new  bioequivalence  study  and  supportive  data  concluded  that  the  fixed  dose  combination  of 
clopidogrel  (75  mg)  and  ASA  (100  mg)  is  considered  bio-equivalent  to  separate  tablets  of  the  same 
strengths  of  clopidogrel  and  ASA.  A  biowaiver  has  been  granted  for  the  strength  of  the  FDC  with 
clopidogrel  (75  mg)  and  ASA  (75  mg).  No  major  issues  have  been  identified  in  the  pharmacokinetic 
section;  however  a  few  concerns,  mainly  related  to  the  food  effect  and  the  extent  to  which  genetic 
polymorphism affects clopidogrel pharmacokinetics of metabolites were discussed. 
Polymorphism  due  to  CYP2C19  has  been  adequately  addressed  in  the  SPC.  Polymorphism  due  to 
CYP1A2  is  of  no  concern  due  to  the  low  prevalence  and  the  minor  role  that  this  isozyme  plays  in 
clopidogrel metabolism. 
CHMP concluded based on the data available to date that food does not significantly modify the extent of 
absorption of clopidogrel; DuoCover can be taken with or without food. The applicant has committed to 
submit study reports on ongoing studies.  
The benefit of this new fixed combination is a simplification of treatment, i.e. patients need to take one 
instead of two tablets.  
Safety 
The  safety  of  the  combination  clopidogrel  and  ASA  was  evaluated  in  3  double-blind  studies  including 
over  60  000  patients  (CURE,  COMMIT  and  CLARITY).  Based  on  these  studies  clopidogrel  (in 
combination with ASA) received the indications that are now applied for with this new fixed combination. 
Therefore, this dossier is mainly based on bioequivalence studies. 
Possible issues related to the risks of a fixed combination (both active substances increase bleeding risk; 
fixed  combination  is  less  flexible  with  respect  to  dose  adjustments)  were  resolved  through  the  Product 
Information (SPC 4.2, 4.4, and 4.5). 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials and post-marketing have been 
included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
•  User consultation 
The applicant has provided the results  of the User  Testing concerning the PIL for DuoCover, aiming at 
ensuring  that  the  information  is  legible,  clear  and  easy  to  use  so  that  patients  can  locate  important 
information within the package leaflet, understand it and act appropriately.  
A  satisfactory  test  outcome  is  when,  for  each  question,  90%  of  all  participants  are  able  to  find  the 
information requested within the PIL and 90% can show that they understand and can act upon it. 
Page 36 of 37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results of the 2 rounds of user testing, following a preliminary test showed: 
•  The main objectives of the readability testing were met by this user test (locating, understanding 
and adequate use by the participants).  
•  The key messages for safe use of DuoCover have been identified and the questions reflect the key 
messages. 
•  According  to  the  minimum  90%  of  positive  results  in  both  finding  and  understanding  the 
information, the results of the tests (at least 95% and 90%) are acceptable. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
 The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that:  
(cid:131) 
 routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
(cid:131)  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  were  required  beyond  those  included  in  the  product 
information.  
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus 
that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  DuoCover  in  the  prevention  of  atherothrombotic  events  in adult  patients 
already  taking  both  clopidogrel  and  acetylsalicylic  acid  (ASA)  was  favourable  and  therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
The full description of the agreed indication is as follows: 
DuoCover is indicated for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in adult patients already taking both 
clopidogrel  and  acetylsalicylic  acid  (ASA).  DuoCover  is  a  fixed-dose  combination  product  for 
continuation of therapy in:  
• 
• 
Non-ST  segment  elevation  acute  coronary  syndrome  (unstable  angina  or  non-Q-wave  myocardial 
infarction)  including  patients  undergoing  a  stent  placement  following  percutaneous  coronary 
intervention 
ST  segment  elevation  acute  myocardial  infarction  in  medically  treated  patients  eligible  for 
thrombolytic therapy 
Page 37 of 37 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
