Summary of risk management plan for DUOPLAVIN (Clopidogrel hydrogen sulfate 
and Acetylsalicylic acid fixed-dose combination) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for DUOPLAVIN. The RMP details 
important risks of DUOPLAVIN, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information 
will be obtained about DUOPLAVIN’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
DUOPLAVIN’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give 
essential information to healthcare professionals (HCPs) and patients on how DUOPLAVIN should 
be used. 
This summary of the RMP for DUOPLAVIN should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of evaluation and its plain-language summary, all of which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of DUOPLAVIN 
RMP. 
I. 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR  
DUOPLAVIN is indicated for the secondary prevention of atherothrombotic events in adult patients 
already taking both clopidogrel and acetylsalicylic acid (ASA). DUOPLAVIN is a fixed-dose 
combination medicinal product for continuation of therapy in: 
•  Non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave 
myocardial infarction) including patients undergoing a stent placement following 
percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) 
•  ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction (STEMI) in patients undergoing PCI 
(including patients undergoing a stent placement) or medically treated patients eligible for 
thrombolytic/fibrinolytic therapy.  
It contains clopidogrel and ASA as the active substances and it is given by oral route. 
Further information about the evaluation of DUOPLAVIN’s benefits can be found in 
DUOPLAVIN’s (EMEA/H/C/001143) EPAR, including its plain-language summary, available on 
the European Medicines Agency (EMA) website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/duoplavin-0 
II. 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMIZE OR 
FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS  
Important risks of DUOPLAVIN together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about DUOPLAVIN’s risks, are outlined in the next sections.  
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL 
and SmPC addressed to patients and HCPs; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
 
 
•  The authorized pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed, including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important risks of DUOPLAVIN are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks 
can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of DUOPLAVIN. Potential risks are concerns for which an association 
with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety 
of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (eg, on the long-term 
use of the medicine); 
Table 1 - List of important risks and missing information  
For Clopidogrel: 
Important identified risk 
Major bleeding (including ICH)  
Important potential risk 
Missing information 
ICH: Intracranial Hemorrhage.  
For Acetylsalicylic acid: 
Important identified risk 
Important potential risk 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
II.B 
Summary of important risks  
For Clopidogrel: 
Table 2 - Important Identified risk with corresponding risk minimization activities and additional 
pharmacovigilance activities if any: Major bleeding (including ICH) for Clopidogrel  
Important identified risk: Major bleeding (including ICH) for Clopidogrel 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Postmarketing experience, clinical and epidemiological data, and literature.  
Generally, treated patients are at risk of increased bleeding in certain clinical 
circumstances, such as trauma, surgery or other pathological conditions. In some 
indications (eg, ACS), clopidogrel may be prescribed together with other antiplatelet 
agents or other medicinal products acting on hemostasis, which may increase the 
 
 
Important identified risk: Major bleeding (including ICH) for Clopidogrel 
propensity or intensity of bleeding in these circumstances. Thus, special warnings 
and precautions for use are necessary for co-administration of clopidogrel with ASA, 
GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors, thrombolytics or heparin. Concomitant use of clopidogrel with 
OAC (eg, warfarin) is not recommended. Concomitant use of SSRIs should be 
undertaken with caution, since they can increase the propensity to bleed due to their 
spectrum of action on platelets. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, including 
COX-2 inhibitors, should also be co-administered with caution, since they may 
increase the propensity to bleed, especially occult gastrointestinal bleeding. Overall, 
patients concomitantly treated with any drugs known to cause bleeding can also be 
considered at risk due a potential additive effect with clopidogrel. 
Very elderly patients: 
In ACTIVE A study, in very elderly patients who are at greater risk for bleeding, as in 
the overall ACTIVE A population, the rate of adjudicated major bleeding was greater 
in the clopidogrel in combination with ASA group than in the ASA alone group 
(8.32% versus 5.98%); this increase was also noted for severe bleeding 
(6.19% versus 4.22%). Overall, the rates of major bleeding, severe bleeding, and ICH 
with clopidogrel in combination with ASA compared with ASA alone was independent 
of all relevant baseline demographic or previous history covariates (including bleeding 
risk or previous stroke, CHADS2 score, and geographic region subgroups). 
In POINT and CHANCE Pool analysis, a limited number of very elderly patient 
experienced ICH, reason why pooled data have been used for determining the risk of 
bleeding in population ≥75 years of age. No difference between treatment group 
regarding frequency was identified in this population. 
Table 2a - Intracranial hemorrhage (ICH), CHANCE and POINT Pooled Analysis 
Dataset (ITT)  
Age  
(N Exposed 
patients) 
75-84 years 
(N = 1618) 
≥85 years 
(N = 361) 
Total  
(N = 10 051) 
No. of ICH in the 
clopidogrel + 
ASA group  
No. of ICH in the 
ASA group 
Total 
4 (0.5%; 4/781) 
3 (0.4%; 3/837) 
7 (0.4; 7/1618) 
1 (0.5%; 1/201) 
0 (0.0%; 0/160) 
1 (0.3; 1/361) 
13 (0.3%; 13/5016) 
11 (0.2%;11/ 
5035) 
24 (0.2; 
24/10 051) 
ASA: Acetylsalicylic Acid; CHANCE: Clopidogrel in High-risk patients with Acute 
Non-disabling Cerebrovascular Event; ICH: Intracranial Hemorrhage; ITT: Intent To Treat; 
POINT: Platelet-Oriented Inhibition In New Transient Ischemic Attack And Minor Ischemic 
Stroke. 
Off-label use: No clinical benefit of clopidogrel has been demonstrated outside of 
approved indications while patients remained at risk of bleeding. 
Risk minimization measures 
The safety information in the product information is aligned to the latest knowledge 
about the two monocomponents. 
ACTIVE: Atrial Fibrillation Clopidogrel Trial with Irbesartan for Prevention of Vascular Event; ACS: Acute Coronary Syndrome; 
ASA: Acetylsalicylic Acid; CHADS: Congestive heart failure, Hypertension, Age, Diabetes, prior Stroke; CHANCE: Clopidogrel in 
High-risk patients with Acute Non-disabling Cerebrovascular Event; COX: Cyclooxygenase; GP: Glycoprotein; ICH: Intracranial 
Hemorrhage; ITT: Intent To Treat; OAC: Oral Anti-Coagulant; POINT: Platelet-Oriented Inhibition In New Transient Ischemic Attack And 
Minor Ischemic Stroke; SSRI: Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitor. 
For Acetylsalicylic Acid: 
Not applicable. 
 
 
II.C 
Post-authorization development plan  
II.C.1 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization  
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
DUOPLAVIN. 
II.C.2 
Other studies in post-authorization development plan  
There are no studies required for DUOPLAVIN.  
 
 
