22 April 2021 
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
DuoResp Spiromax  
International non-proprietary name: budesonide / formoterol 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002348/II/0033 
Note  
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
1.1. Type II group of variations .................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 7 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 7 
2.1.1. Problem statement ............................................................................................ 7 
2.1.2. About the product .............................................................................................. 9 
2.1.3. The development programme/compliance with CHMP guidance/scientific advice ........ 9 
2.2. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 10 
2.2.1. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 10 
2.2.2. Conclusion of the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 10 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 10 
2.4. Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................. 10 
2.4.1. Discussion on clinical efficacy ............................................................................ 17 
2.4.2. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy ..................................................................... 20 
2.5. Clinical safety .................................................................................................... 20 
2.5.1. Discussion on clinical safety .............................................................................. 27 
2.5.2. Conclusions on clinical safety ............................................................................ 28 
2.5.3. PSUR cycle ..................................................................................................... 29 
2.6. Risk management plan ........................................................................................ 29 
2.7. Update of the Product information ........................................................................ 29 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................. 30 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance.............................................................................. 30 
3.1. Conclusions ....................................................................................................... 30 
4. Recommendations ................................................................................. 30 
5. EPAR changes ........................................................................................ 31 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 2/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
API 
AE 
APSD  
ANCOVA 
ANOVA 
ATC 
AUC0-inf 
AUC0-t 
AUClast 
bpm 
BE 
BUD 
active pharmaceutical ingredient 
adverse event 
aerodynamic particle size distribution 
analysis of covariance 
analysis of variance 
anatomical therapeutic chemical (classification system) 
area under the plasma concentration time curve from time zero 
(pre-dose) to infinity 
area under the plasma concentration time curve from time zero 
(pre-dose) to the time of the last quantifiable concentration 
area under the plasma concentration time curve from time zero 
(pre-dose) to the last measurable concentration 
beats per minute 
bioequivalence 
budesonide 
BF Spiromax 
fixed-dose combination of budesonide and formoterol fumarate in 
COPD 
CSR 
Cmax 
CI 
DBP 
DPI 
ECG 
FPD  
FDC  
FEV1 
FOR 
GCP 
GLP 
GSD 
HPA  
HR 
the Spiromax Inhaler 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
clinical study report 
maximum plasma concentration 
confidence interval 
diastolic blood pressure 
dry powder inhaler/multi-dose powder inhaler 
electrocardiogram 
fine particle dose 
fixed-dose combination 
forced expiratory volume in one second 
formoterol fumarate 
Good Clinical Practice 
Good Laboratory Practice 
geometric standard deviation 
hypothalamic pituitary adrenocortical  
heart rate 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 3/31 
 
 
 
ICS 
IP 
ITT 
LC 
LS 
LABA 
LC-MS/MS 
LLGR 
LLOQ 
MO 
MMAD 
inhaled corticosteroid 
inlet port 
intent-to-treat population 
label claim 
least squares  
long-acting β2 adrenergic agonist 
liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry 
lower leg growth rate  
lower limit of quantification 
Major Objection 
mass median aerodynamic diameter 
MedDRA 
Medical dictionary for regulatory activities  
MUC 
NGI 
OIP 
PSD 
PIL/PL 
PEF 
PIFR 
PP 
PD 
PK 
PS 
QTc 
QTcB 
QTcF  
RMP 
RMS 
SAE 
SmPC 
SBP 
T1/2 
Tmax 
modified urine cortisol  
next generation impactor 
orally inhaled product 
particle size distribution 
patient information leaflet/package leaflet 
peak expiratory flow 
peak inspiratory flow rate 
per protocol population 
pharmacodynamics 
pharmacokinetics 
pre-separator 
corrected QT interval 
corrected QT interval using the Bazzett correction formula 
corrected QT interval using the Fridericia correction formula 
risk management plan  
root mean square  
serious adverse event 
summary of product characteristics 
systolic blood pressure 
terminal phase half-life 
time to maximum plasma concentration 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 4/31 
 
 
 
TD 
TEAR 
UC 
WHO-DD 
µg 
total dose 
treatment-emergent adverse events 
urine cortisol 
World Health Organisation-Drug Dictionary  
microgram 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 5/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Type II group of variations 
Pursuant to Article 7.2 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Teva Pharma B.V. submitted to 
the European Medicines Agency on 1 June 2020 an application for a group of variations.  
The following variations were requested in the group: 
Variations requested 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.z  
C.I.z - Changes (Safety/Efficacy) of Human and 
Type IB 
I 
Veterinary Medicinal Products - Other variation  
C.I.6.a  
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition 
Type II 
I, IIIA and 
of a new therapeutic indication or modification of an 
IIIB 
approved one  
Type II variation – C.I.6.a. - Extension of Indication to include adolescents (12 years and older) for the 
regular treatment of asthma, where use of a combination (inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting β2 
adrenoceptor agonist) is appropriate: in patients not adequately controlled with inhaled corticosteroids 
and “as needed” inhaled short-acting β2 adrenoceptor agonists; or in patients already adequately 
controlled on both inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting β2 adrenoceptor agonists. The proposed 
extension to the indication is based upon data from the Literature. As a consequence, sections 4.1, 
4.2, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC have been updated and the Package Leaflet has been updated 
accordingly.  
In addition, the MAH took the opportunity to make an administrative update to the Greek, Islandic, 
Irish and Maltese local representatives phone numbers in the Package Leaflet. Furthermore, the PI is 
brought in line with the latest QRD template version 10.1. An updated RMP version 3.0 was submitted 
as part of the application.  
Type IB variation - C.I.z other – updates of sections 4.2, 5.1 and 5.2 of the SmPC to update the 
information on paediatric data and section 4.4 of the SmPC to remove the warning regarding the risk 
of growth retardation in children and the guidance on how to address this risk as agreed during the 
assessment of the duplicate Budesonide/Formoterol Teva Pharma B.V. (EMEA/H/C/004882), which was 
approved in Jan 2020.  
The group of variations requested amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC), 
Labelling and Package Leaflet (PL) and to the Risk Management Plan (RMP).  
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the MAH did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 6/31 
 
 
 
 
related to the proposed indication. 
Scientific advice 
The MAH did not seek Scientific Advice at the CHMP. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: 
John Joseph Borg 
Co-Rapporteur:  
Peter Kiely 
Timetable 
Submission date 
Start of procedure: 
CHMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
CHMP Co-Rapporteur Assessment Report 
PRAC Rapporteur Assessment Report 
PRAC Outcome 
Updated CHMP Rapporteur(s) (Joint) Assessment Report 
Request for supplementary information (RSI) 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on 
Actual dates 
1 June 2020 
18 July 2020 
10 September 2020 
11 September 2020 
17 September 2020 
1 October 2020 
8 October 2020 
15 October 2020 
18 February 2021 
Joint CHMP Rapporteur’s preliminary Assessment Report circulated on 
23 March 2021 
PRAC Rapporteur Assessment Report 
26 March 2021 
Updated Joint CHMP Rapporteur’s Assessment Report circulated on 
15 March 2021 
PRAC outcome 
09 April 2021 
Updated Joint CHMP Rapporteur’s Assessment Report circulated on 
15 April 2021 
CHMP Opinion 
22 April 2021 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
2.1.1.  Problem statement 
Disease or condition 
Asthma is an heterogenous disease characterized by chronic airway inflammation. It is defined by a 
history of respiratory symptoms – wheeze, cough, dyspnoea, and chest tightness that may vary in 
time and in intensity together with variable expiratory airflow limitation. Asthma is a heterogenous 
disease with different underlying disease processes. Different cells play a role in the pathophysiology of 
this disease – lymphocytes, neutrophils, eosinophils, epithelial cells.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 7/31 
 
 
 
 
Therapeutic indication 
This application has been submitted to include the use in adolescents (12 years and older) for the 
regular treatment of asthma, where use of a combination (inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting β2 
adrenoceptor agonist) is appropriate: in patients not adequately controlled with inhaled corticosteroids 
and “as needed” inhaled short-acting β2 adrenoceptor agonists; or in patients already adequately 
controlled on both inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting β2 adrenoceptor agonists. The proposed 
extension to the indication was initially based upon data from the Literature. 
Epidemiology  
Asthma is one of the most common major non-communicable diseases and for many, has a substantial 
impact on quality of life. Globally, asthma is ranked 16th among the leading causes of years lived with 
disability and 28th among the leading causes of burden of disease, as measured by disability-adjusted 
life years. Around 300 million people have asthma worldwide, and it is likely that by 2025 a further 
100 million may be affected. There is a large geographical variation in asthma prevalence, severity, 
and mortality. While asthma prevalence is higher in high income countries, most asthma-related 
mortality occurs in low-middle income countries. 
Aetiology and pathogenesis 
The current evidence suggests that asthma is a complex multifactorial disorder and its etiology is 
increasingly attributed to interactions between genetic susceptibility, host factors, and environmental 
exposures. These include environmental factors (air pollution, pollens, mold and other aeroallergens, 
and weather), host factors (obesity, nutritional factors, infections, allergic sensitization), and genetic 
factors (asthma susceptibility loci on genes). Although underlying mechanisms of asthma are not yet 
fully understood, they may include airway inflammation, control of airway tone and reactivity. It is also 
now recognized that asthma may not be a single disease but a group of heterogeneous phenotypes 
with different aetiologies and prognoses.  
Clinical presentation and diagnosis  
The clinical manifestations of asthma include recurrent episodes of wheezing, chest tightness, cough 
and shortness of breath. The symptoms are often worse at night or on waking from sleep. Usually, 
they resolve spontaneously or with the inhalation of a reliever medication. In other cases, they may 
worsen over hours or minutes, leading to more severe airflow obstruction and an ‘attack’ or 
exacerbation of asthma that is relieved only by extra medication. Some very severe episodes are life-
threatening, although death from asthma in adulthood is uncommon and in most European countries 
mortality rates are falling.  
Exacerbations of asthma are mostly provoked by respiratory infections – usually viral in origin – and 
are especially common in winter and shortly after the return of children to school after the summer 
holiday. In adults with allergic asthma (as indicated by the co-presence of rhinitis and conjunctivitis), 
symptoms are provoked by exposure to the relevant allergen(s), commonly those in-house dust or 
from pets, or encountered at work. Other common triggers include physical exertion (particularly in 
cold, dry air) and traffic pollution. Certain drugs such as β-adrenergic blockers and nonsteroidal anti-
inflammatory agents can provoke asthma. A rare, but characteristic form of adult-onset asthma 
presents with nasal polyps and symptoms provoked by taking aspirin or similar nonsteroidal anti-
inflammatory agents; however, its mechanism is unclear. Asthma exacerbations remain the main 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 8/31 
 
 
 
reason for admission of people with asthma to hospital. While rates of hospital admission have 
gradually fallen in recent years, they remain high, particularly in the UK, Spain and Belgium.  
Management 
There is currently no cure for most types of adult asthma, and the primary goals of management are 
to achieve and maintain control of symptoms; and to prevent asthma exacerbations. In many cases, it 
is also possible to improve and/or maintain respiratory function, to retain normal activity levels, to 
prevent the development of irreversible airway narrowing and to prevent deaths from asthma. 
Evidently, it is also desirable to avoid short- and long-term adverse events from asthma medication. 
Pharmacological treatment comprises ‘controller’ medication (inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), with or 
without long-acting β2-agonists (LABA)) and ‘reliever’ medication taken as required to relieve 
symptoms (short-acting β2- agonists (SABA)). The amount of treatment is adjusted according to the 
severity and frequency of asthma symptoms. Patients’ needs for treatment may change over time and 
treatment need to be adjusted accordingly. Mild asthma is usually controlled using SABA alone and on 
demand, or by the addition of low doses of ICS. Asthma of moderate severity can be controlled with a 
combination of low- or high-dose ICS with LABA. More severe asthma may necessitate the addition of 
other controller medications.  
The most important long-term consequence of asthma is the development of persistent airway 
narrowing, which is non- or poorly responsive to treatment. It is unclear whether this is preventable by 
regular treatment with controller therapies. Death from asthma, although very uncommon in Europe, 
can occur in adults with all forms of the disease, especially if treatment has been suboptimal. 
2.1.2.  About the product 
In the EU, DuoResp Spiromax is approved for the treatment of asthma and COPD in adult patients.   
Asthma: DuoResp Spiromax is indicated in the regular treatment of asthma, where use of a 
combination (inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting β2 adrenoceptor agonist) is appropriate: -in 
patients not adequately controlled with inhaled corticosteroids and “as needed” inhaled short-acting β2 
adrenoceptor agonists. or -in patients already adequately controlled on both inhaled corticosteroids 
and long-acting β2 adrenoceptor agonists.  
COPD: Symptomatic treatment of patients with COPD with forced expiratory volume in 1 second 
(FEV1) < 70% predicted normal (post bronchodilator) and a history of repeated exacerbations, who 
have significant symptoms despite regular therapy with long-acting bronchodilators. 
Two strength are currently approved in the EU: 
• 
• 
DuoResp Spiromax 160 micrograms / 4.5 micrograms inhalation powder 
DuoResp Spiromax 320 micrograms/9 micrograms inhalation powder 
2.1.3.  The development programme/compliance with CHMP 
guidance/scientific advice 
No CHMP scientific advice was requested by the MAH in relation to this variation.   
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 9/31 
 
 
 
2.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
No new non-clinical data have been submitted in this application, which was considered acceptable by 
the CHMP. 
2.2.1.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
In accordance with the Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for 
Human use (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00 corr 2), a justification for the absence of an environmental risk 
assessment (ERA) has been provided. The applicant states that the proposed budesonide/formoterol 
Spiromax 80/4.5, 160/4.5, 320/9 µg per dose, inhalation powder products would replace the currently 
marketed medicinal products and hence the exposure of the environment to budesonide and 
formoterol is not likely to increase. Therefore, the absence of ERA is considered acceptable. 
2.2.2.  Conclusion of the non-clinical aspects 
No new non-clinical data have been submitted and the pre-clinical section 5.3 of the SmPC remains 
unchanged. This is considered acceptable by CHMP. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
No new clinical pharmacology studies were conducted to support this application, which was considered 
acceptable by the CHMP. 
2.4.  Clinical efficacy 
The MAH provided 10 literature references to support this variation application. In addition, the MAH 
discussed the results of a Phase 3b study (Study BFS-AS-306) to which 48 adolescents were enrolled 
upon request by CHMP. This study was a 12-week, multicenter, double-blind, double-dummy, 
randomized, controlled trial and the primary endpoint was the change from baseline in weekly average 
morning peak expiratory flow (AM PEF). It is presented below as a supportive study.  
The following publications were provided: 
Title of the study  
The primary objective 
Products/actives 
investigated  
fluticasone 
propionate/salmeterol 
AirFluSal Forspiro 
number 
The 
of 
adolescents/children 
enrolled  
Not specified 
The primary objective was to assess 
asthma  control  and  any  change  in 
the  quality  of  life  in  patients  using 
an  intuitive  dry  powder  inhaler 
fluticasone 
containing 
(AirFluSal 
propionate/salmeterol 
treatment  of 
Forspiro) 
asthma in everyday practice. 
the 
for 
persistence 
The  objective  of  this  study  was  to 
compare 
to 
salmeterol/fluticasone 
propionate 
combination  treatment  as  AirFluSal 
Forspiro with persistence to Seretide 
Diskus  in  patients  with  asthma  or 
COPD aged 12 years and above. 
fluticasone 
propionate/salmeterol 
310 
AirFluSal 
Seretide Diskus 
Forspiro 
or 
Page 10/31 
(1) Backer at al. 2019 
open-label, 
A 
multicenter, 
noninterventional 
to 
study 
evaluate  the  impact  on  clinical 
effects,  user-friendliness 
and 
patients’  acceptance  of  AirFluSal 
Forspiro 
in  the  treatment  of 
asthma  under  real-life  conditions 
(ASSURE) 
(2) Bender et al 
Analysis 
Comparative 
of 
Persistence  to  Treatment  among 
Patients  with  Asthma  or  COPD 
Receiving  AirFluSal  Forspiro  or 
Salmeterol/ 
Seretide  Diskus 
Fluticasone 
Propionate 
Combination Therapy 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
 
 
 
(3)  The  list  of  clinical  trials  from 
ClinicalTrials.gov 
(4) Cates at al. 
Inhaled steroids with and without 
regular  salmeterol  for  asthma: 
serious adverse events 
(5) Hantulik et al. 
Usage  and  usability  of  one  dry 
powder inhaler compared to other 
inhalers at therapy start: an open, 
non-interventional  observational 
study in Poland and Germany 
(6) Jogi et al. 
In Vitro Flow Rate Dependency of  
Delivered  Dose  and  Fine  Particle 
Dose  of  Salmeterol/Fluticasone 
Propionate 
and 
Seretide Diskus with Patient Flow 
Rates  Collected  in  a  Randomized 
Controlled Trial 
Easyhaler 
et 
al. 
Jorup 
(7) 
Budesonide/formoterol 
maintenance and reliever therapy 
in  adolescent  patients  with 
asthma 
The  primary  objective  of  this  study 
was To assess risks of mortality and 
non-fatal  serious  adverse  events 
(SAEs)  in  trials  that  randomised 
participants with chronic asthma  to 
regular  salmeterol  and  ICS  versus 
the same dose of ICS. 
The  primary  objective  of  this  study 
was the validation of a questionnaire 
that  can  be  used  for  assessing  a 
successful 
technique, 
inhalation 
patient  satisfaction  as  well  as  the 
compliance in daily practice. 
Inhaled  steroids  with  and 
without 
regular 
salmeterol 
inhaler  Easyhaler  (EH) 
(Orion 
Pharma, 
Finland) 
active –unclear  
Unclear 
from  41 
The  data 
studies 
(27,951 
participants)  in  adults 
and  adolescents,  along 
with eight studies (8453 
participants)  in  children 
were analysed 
adult/adolescent 
263 
patients  with  asthma 
and  164  children  (≤  12 
years 
with 
old) 
asthmatic disease 
fluticasone 
propionate/salmeterol 
Children 
(n = 60) 
Easyhaler 
S/F 
Seretide Diskus 
versus 
Adolescents 
and adults (n = 62) 
Budesonide/formoterol 
1847 adolescents 
Symbicort 
MART 
(SMART) (AstraZeneca) 
fluticasone 
propionate/salmeterol 
Unclear  
AirFluSal 
Diskus 
or 
Seretide 
Budesonide/Formoterol 
Easyhaler 
52  children  (from  6  to 
11 years) 
unclear 
Different  Budesonide  + 
fumarate 
formoterol 
dehydrate 
formulations. 
It  seems  that  in  the 
studies 
of 
majority 
Symbicort 
Turbuhar 
was investigated  
(8)Kuna  et  al.  Randomized 
equivalence 
novel 
trial: 
multidose dry powder inhaler and 
originator  device  in  adult  and 
adolescent asthma 
A 
To compare the efficacy and  safety 
of  FP-Sal  delivered  via  a  novel 
multidose  dry  powder 
inhaler 
(mDPI)  versus  an  originator  device 
in adolescent and adult patients with 
moderate-to-severe 
persistent 
asthma 
(9)  Malmberg  et  al.  Evaluation 
of In Vitro and In Vivo Flow Rate 
Dependency 
of 
Budesonide/Formoterol Easyhaler 
As a part of product optimization, a 
series of in vitro and in vivo studies 
on 
flow  rate  dependency  were 
carried out. 
(10) Ole D. Wolthers 
The aim of this paper was 
+ 
Budesonide 
fumarate  dihydrate 
treatment of asthma 
formoterol 
the 
for 
to  review  the  fixed  dry  powder 
inhaled 
combination 
budesonide+formoterol 
fumarate 
dihydrate for 
of 
asthma  treatment  in  adolescents 
and adults. 
The most relevant publications submitted are summarised below:  
 (7)  Jorup  et  al.  Budesonide/formoterol  maintenance  and  reliever  therapy  in  adolescent 
patients with asthma 
This was a post hoc analysis which assessed the efficacy and safety of budesonide/formoterol 
(BUD/FORM) maintenance and reliever therapy (MART) for treatment of persistent asthma in 
adolescent (age 12– 17 years) subgroups within six randomised, double-blind trials. The primary 
endpoint was time to first severe exacerbation. Secondary endpoints included number of severe 
exacerbations, asthma-related symptoms, night-time awakenings, morning peak expiratory flow, 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 11/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
forced expiratory volume in 1 s, as needed medication use and five-item asthma control questionnaire 
scores. 
Methods 
Studies eligible for inclusion were any randomised, double-blind trial comparing BUD/FORM MART with 
an active comparator in patients with persistent asthma, that were 
6 months in duration and which 
included patients aged 12–18 years. This individual patient-level analysis was conducted for Symbicort 
⩾
MART (SMART) by AstraZeneca to extend the licensed indication for the regimen to include patients 
aged 
12 years. As such, the data source for the analysis was the AstraZeneca clinical trials database, 
and included studies completed by November 2015. 
⩾
Seven studies that met the criteria were identified in the AstraZeneca clinical trial database: SD-039–
0667 (STEAM) [10], SD-039-0668 (STEP) [11], SD-039-0673 (STAY) [12], SD-039-0734 (SMILE) 
[13], SD-039-0735 (COMPASS) [14], NCT00242775 (AHEAD) [15] and NCT00839800 (SAKURA) [16]. 
Of these, six were included in the analysis: NCT00839800 was excluded since it randomised only 21 
adolescents, all of whom were aged 
16 years. No additional studies were identified from the searches 
of the PubMed and Cochrane databases. 
⩾
Each study included a 2-week run-in period, during which patients received either their usual ICS dose, 
BUD/FORM (Symbicort; AstraZeneca, Gothenburg, Sweden) 160/4.5 μg twice daily or BUD 200 
μg·day-1 [10] as controller medication. Patients considered not well controlled on the run-in 
medication were then randomised to BUD/FORM MART or conventional fixed-dose maintenance 
therapy plus additional reliever therapy. The comparators, BUD (Pulmicort; AstraZeneca), FORM (Oxis; 
AstraZeneca) and terbutaline (Bricanyl; AstraZeneca) were administered via Turbohaler devices 
identical to those used for BUD/FORM; salmeterol/fluticasone (Seretide; GlaxoSmithKline, Brentford, 
UK) was administered via Evohaler or Diskus. Treatment duration was 6 months in three studies and 
12 months in the remainder of the trials. 
The primary efficacy endpoint for this analysis was time to first severe exacerbation, defined as the 
need for oral corticosteroid (OCS) for 
3 days and/or hospitalisation/emergency room care due to 
asthma worsening (online supplementary material). Time to first severe exacerbation was chosen since 
⩾
it was the primary endpoint in five of the six studies, one study recruited a population with relatively 
milder disease and hence included peak expiratory flow (PEF) as its primary endpoint. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints included total number of severe exacerbations, changes in asthma-
related symptoms, night-time awakenings, morning PEF, forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) at 
clinic visits, use of as-needed medication and five-item asthma control questionnaire (ACQ-5) scores 
(measured in three studies only [13–15]). 
Statistical analyses were conducted on the adolescent (12–17 years) subgroup within each study. 
Additional analyses were performed for the adult (
18 years) subgroups within each study, to assess 
whether the effect observed in adolescents was consistent with that in adults. 
⩾
Results  
1847 adolescents from six studies were randomised to BUD/FORM MART (n=694); BUD plus 
terbutaline (n=225); BUD/FORM plus terbutaline (n=441); BUD/FORM plus FORM (n=115); or 
salmeterol/ fluticasone plus terbutaline (n=372). 
For the primary endpoint of time to first severe exacerbation, BUD/FORM MART was similar to or more 
effective than comparators in the adolescent population. Hazard ratios (HRs) numerically favoured 
BUD/FORM MART for all treatment comparisons in five of the six studies (ranging from 0.15 to 0.93) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 12/31 
 
 
 
and were similar for BUD/FORM MART and comparator (BUD/ FORM + FORM as needed) in the 
remaining study (HR 1.01). 
In the pooled analysis, the risk of a severe exacerbation was found to be lower with BUD/FORM MART 
than comparator in the adolescent population (HR 0.49, 95% CI 0.34–0.70). However, there was 
statistically significant heterogeneity in the pooled estimate (likelihood ratio test, p=0.04). 
For time to first severe exacerbation, the results observed for the adolescent population, both in the 
individual studies and in the pooled analysis, were consistent with those observed for the adult 
population. 
In the adolescent subgroup, point estimates were in favour of BUD/FORM MART for secondary 
endpoints (total number of severe exacerbations, asthma symptom scores, night-time awakenings, as-
needed inhalations, FEV1, morning PEF and ACQ-5 score) in five of the six studies versus comparators. 
In addition, pooled estimates were in favour of BUD/FORM MART for these secondary endpoints, 
although many of these analyses exhibited statistically significant heterogeneity. For these secondary 
efficacy endpoints, the results observed for the adolescent population, both in the individual studies 
and in the pooled analysis, were consistent with those observed for the adult population. 
(10)  Ole  D.  Wolthers,  Budesonide  +  formoterol  fumarate  dihydrate  for  the  treatment  of 
asthma  
Methods 
The following databases were used in the literature search: PubMed, a service of the National Library 
of Medicine, New York, U.S.A, includes over 25 million citations for biomedical articles from the 1950s 
to 8 January 2016. For the review of efficacy primarily but not exclusively randomized double-blind 
trials were included. 
All studies used a randomized, double-blind, parallel-group design. Where not indicated otherwise, a 
short-acting β-2 agonist was used for as-needed treatment. The outcomes were statistically significant 
except where marked by *. 
Table 1: Summary of phase III efficacy studies of dry powder budesonide+formoterol fumarate 
dihydrate in bronchial asthma.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 13/31 
 
 
 
 
Post-marketing surveillance studies 
The use of budesonide+formoterol fumarate dihydrate as maintenance and reliever therapy has been 
evaluated in more than 23 000 adolescent and adult patients as part of four real-world studies, which 
included open comparisons with fluticasone propionate+salmeterol xinofoate or conventional best 
practice. Budesonide+formoterol fumarate dihydrate was found to reduce the rate of exacerbations 
requiring hospital admissions or emergency room visits and the rate of exacerbations requiring oral 
corticosteroids as compared with fluticasone propionate+salmeterol xinofoate or conventional best 
practice. Patients treated with budesonide+formoterol fumarate dihydrate maintenance and reliever 
therapy received lower mean daily dose of corticosteroid compared with conventional best practice. 
The use of oral corticosteroids was also lower than with fluticasone propionate+salmeterol xinofoate or 
conventional best practice. 
Unpublished studies 
The authors were able to identify 13 trials of budesonide+formoterol fumarate dihydrate maintenance 
and reliever therapy in 13,152 adolescent and adult asthma patients, of which only three were 
published. Only selected data from four studies were published and no data from six of the studies had 
been peer review published. 
Supportive study 
The MAH conducted a Phase 3b study (Study BFS-AS-306), in patients 12 years and older with 
persistent asthma to demonstrate non-inferiority of BID BF SPIROMAX 160/4.5 mcg to BF 
TURBOHALER 200/6 mcg BID (Virchow et al 2016). This was a 12-week, multicentre, randomized, 
double-blind, double-dummy, active-controlled, parallel-group study, and the primary endpoint was 
the change from baseline in weekly average AM PEF. 
Efficacy results in the overall population 
In both BF SPIROMAX and BF TURBOHALER treatment groups, there was an improvement in weekly 
average AM PEF over the 12-week treatment period and non-inferior efficacy was demonstrated for BF 
SPIROMAX versus BF TURBOHALER. No significant between-group differences were observed in the 
secondary efficacy endpoints of change from baseline in weekly average evening (PM) peak expiratory 
flow (PEF), the change from baseline in trough forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1), the 
percentage of symptom-free days (24-hour period), and the percentage of rescue-free days (24-hour 
period). 
Efficacy results by age category 
Subjects in both treatment groups and all age categories showed improvement in all measures of 
efficacy. 
-Morning peak expiratory flow 
The change from baseline in AM PEF was specified as the primary efficacy endpoint in the study. The 
AM PEF values by treatment are shown for the total study population as well as for the age subgroups 
of adolescents aged 12 through 17 years, adults aged 18 through 64 years, and seniors aged 65 years 
and older (Table 2). 
In the adolescent age subgroup, the mean change from baseline in the AM PEF was numerically 
greater in the BF SPIROMAX-treated patients than in those treated with BF TURBOHALER (37.9 L/min 
versus 23.4 L/min, respectively). Similarly, the mean change from baseline in the AM PEF was greater 
in the BF SPIROMAX-treated adolescents than in adult (18 through 64 years) or senior (≥65 years) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 14/31 
 
 
 
patients treated with BF SPIROMAX. Overall, the MAH was of the view that these data support the 
efficacy of BF SPIROMAX in adolescent patients with asthma. 
Table 2: Mean Change from Baseline AM PEF at Endpoint by Treatment Group and Age Category (Per 
Protocol Population) 
-Evening peak expiratory flow 
The PM PEF was a secondary efficacy endpoint for the study and the values by treatment are shown for 
the total study population as well as for the age subgroups of adolescents aged 12 through 17 years, 
adults aged 18 through 64 years, and seniors aged 65 years and older (Table 3). In all groups, the 
change from baseline in PM PEF for BF SPIROMAX-treated groups were similar or greater than the 
results for treatment with BF TURBOHALER. The increase from baseline PM PEF was greater in 
adolescent patients treated with BF SPIROMAX (34.4 L/min) than those treated with BF TURBOHALER 
(17.8 L/min). Although no formal comparison is possible due to the relatively small sample size, the 
results reasonably indicate that BF SPIROMAX 160/4.5 mcg is at least as effective as BF TURBOHALER 
200/6 mcg in adolescent patients with asthma. 
Table 3: Mean Change from Baseline PM PEF at Endpoint by Treatment Group and Age Category (Per 
Protocol Population) 
-Trough forced expiratory volume in 1 second 
The change from baseline trough (pre-dose) FEV1 values at the endpoint are shown by treatment for 
the total study population as well as for the age subgroups of adolescents aged 12 through 17 years, 
adults aged 18 through 64 years, and seniors aged 65 years and older (Table 4). In all groups, the 
trough FEV1 values for BF SPIROMAX and BF TURBOHALER were similar, with a change from baseline 
value for adolescent patients of 0.7 L versus 0.8 L for BF SPIROMAX and BF TURBOHALER treatments, 
respectively. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 15/31 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Mean Change from Baseline Trough FEV1 at Endpoint by Treatment Group and Age Category 
(Per Protocol Population) 
-Rescue-free days 
Rescue medication use was recorded on a daily basis by patients in a paper diary. The use was 
recorded during the run-in period to establish a study baseline and throughout the treatment period. 
The change from baseline in the percentage of rescue-free days at week 12 is shown by treatment for 
the total study population as well as for the age subgroups of adolescents aged 12 through 17 years, 
adults aged 18 through 64 years, and seniors aged 65 years and older (Table 5). In all groups, the 
increased percentage of rescue-free days for BF SPIROMAX and BF TURBOHALER were similar over 12 
weeks, with a change from baseline for adolescent patients of 35.8% versus 32.0% for BF SPIROMAX 
and BF TURBOHALER treatments, respectively. 
Table 5: Mean Change from Baseline in the Percentage of Rescue-Free Days (24-Hour Period) at Week 
12 by Treatment Group and Age Category (Per Protocol Population) 
-Symptom-free days 
Symptoms of cough, wheeze, shortness of breath, and chest tightness were assessed by patients each 
AM and PM before determining PEF and administration of study drug or rescue medication. Daytime 
and nighttime symptoms were recorded on a daily basis using a 5-point (daytime) or 4-point 
(nighttime) scoring system with 0 representing no symptoms. A 24-hour symptom-free period was 
defined as an asthma symptom score of 0 for both AM and PM assessments. 
The change from baseline in the percentage of symptom-free days at week 12 are shown by treatment 
for the total study population as well as for the age subgroups of adolescents aged 12 through 17 
years, adults aged 18 through 64 years, and seniors aged 65 years and older (Table 6).  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 16/31 
 
 
 
 
 
In all groups, the increased percentage of symptom-free days for BF SPIROMAX and BF TURBOHALER 
were similar over 12 weeks, with a change from baseline for adolescent patients of 45.3% versus 
39.4% for BF SPIROMAX and BF TURBOHALER treatments, respectively. 
Table 6: Mean Change from Baseline in the Percentage of Symptom-Free Days (24-Hour Period) at 
Week 12 by Treatment Group and Age Category (Per Protocol Population) 
Summary of clinical efficacy results 
In each age subgroup, the size of the treatment effect was similar for BF SPIROMAX and BF 
TURBOHALER. While the sample size of the adolescent population does not allow for a formal statistical 
comparison, the numeric differences between both the response in adolescents to BF SPIROMAX and 
BF TURBOHALER, and the response of the different age subgroups to BF SPIROMAX, together provide 
strong support for the efficacy of BF SPIROMAX in adolescent patients with asthma. 
2.4.1.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  MAH  submitted  this  application  to  extend  the  indication  in  Asthma  to  adolescents  (aged  12-17 
years).  
The MAH initially provided 10 literature references to support this extension of indication. Nevertheless, 
upon request by CHMP, the MAH provided further justification regarding the use of DuoResp Spiromax 
in adolescents as well as all available data for the use of DuoResp Spiromax in Adolescents patients.  
Literature references 
Only  three  out  of  the  ten  publications  submitted  as  part  of  this  application  where  considered  to  be 
relevant by CHMP.   
-Cates at al. Inhaled steroids with and without regular salmeterol for asthma: serious adverse events 
Please see section on clinical safety.  
- Ole D. Wolthers, Budesonide + formoterol fumarate dihydrate for the treatment of asthma 
Upon request by CHMP, the MAH provided further clarification on the types of budenoside/formoterol 
formulations investigated in published studies and if in any study DuoResp/BiResp Spiromax was used. 
It was highlighted that the publication by Wolthers (2016) reviewed studies of the BF combination that 
included adolescent patients with asthma. However, neither the Wolthers study nor the original 
references cited provided data by age subgroups. In some cases, the data for children (ages 4 through 
11 years) were reported separately, but the data for adolescent patients (ages 12 through 17 years) 
were reported in combination with adults (O’Byrne et al 2005). Additionally, it was clarified that none 
of the studies in the review by Wolthers included treatment with the BF SPIROMAX inhaler. While 
Wolthers did not report on age subgroups, a post-hoc analysis by Jorup et al (2018) included several 
of the studies cited by Wolthers and compared efficacy and safety of the BF combination in adolescent 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 17/31 
 
 
 
 
and adult patients with asthma. The results of this post-hoc analysis, which included 1847 adolescent 
patients (12 through 17 years) with asthma from 6 clinical studies is discussed below. 
-  Jorup  et  al.  Budesonide/formoterol  maintenance  and  reliever  therapy  in  adolescent  patients  with 
asthma 
This study focused on the maintenance and reliever therapy of the budesonide/formoterol combination. 
In this publication, the efficacy and safety of Symbicort MART (SMART) investigated in six randomised, 
double-blind trials adolescents (age 12– 17 years) with persistent asthma were presented. 
Upon request by CHMP, an additional discussion was provided by the MAH in relation to the use of 
other budenoside/formoterol formulations in adolescents. The response of adolescent patients with 
asthma has been compared to adult patients with respect to the efficacy and safety of the budesonide/ 
formoterol combination used as both maintenance and reliever therapy (MART). A post-hoc analysis of 
patient data from 6 studies (n=1847 adolescents) demonstrated little difference in response between 
adult and adolescent patients across numerous efficacy endpoints, encompassing both lung function 
and symptomatic improvement as well as in reducing the risk of severe exacerbation. 
The analysis assessed the efficacy and safety of BF MART for treatment of persistent asthma in 
adolescent (age 12 through 17 years) subgroups within 6 randomised, double-blind trials. The authors 
concluded that their analysis supported the use of the BF combination as MART in adolescents with 
persistent asthma and that BF efficacy and safety in adolescent patients were consistent with the BF 
efficacy and safety reported for adults.  
Furthermore, the authors conducted a literature search for publications reporting on studies in the 
Symbicort Turbohaler clinical research program that included patients who were 12 to 17 years of age. 
A total of 7 studies that had been completed by November 2015 were found. One of these was 
excluded since it randomised only 21 adolescents, all of whom were ≥16 years of age.  
The primary endpoint in all studies was time to first severe exacerbation of asthma symptoms. 
Secondary endpoints included number of severe exacerbations, asthma-related symptoms, night-time 
awakenings, AM PEF, FEV1, as-needed medication use, and 5-item asthma control questionnaire 
scores. 
In adolescent patients (n=1847), efficacy of BF MART was similar to or greater than that of 
comparators across each of the studies in reducing the risk of a first severe exacerbation. This was 
consistent with outcomes in the adult subgroups (n=12197), both in the individual studies and in the 
pooled analysis. Similar treatment benefits for BF MART were observed for secondary endpoints. As-
needed medication use was lower with BF MART than comparators, and BF as-needed use was lower in 
adolescents than adults. The safety profile of BF MART observed in the adolescent subgroups was 
similar to that reported in all patients. No signals for systemic adverse events or new safety concerns 
were identified in the adolescent population. See discussion on clinical safety.  
The MAH also highlighted that there is precedent for approval of the budesonide/formoterol 
combination for use in adolescents based on clinical data obtained in adults i.e. the combinations of 
Airbufo Forspiro and Bufomix Easyhaler were both approved for use in adults and adolescents with 
asthma based on the demonstration of bioequivalence in healthy adults (Sandoz PAR 2018, Orion PAR 
2014). Thus, the MAH considered that the orally inhaled combination can be used safely in adolescents 
based on extrapolation of clinical data in adults to adolescents.  
In general, CHMP agreed that this analysis can support the use of BUD/FORM MART (Symbicort MART) 
in adolescents with persistent asthma. Of note, BiResp/Duoresp Spiromax was not investigated in any 
of these studies.    
Study BFS-AS-306 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 18/31 
 
 
 
 
 
Following the initial approval in adults based on bioequivalence studies, a non-inferiority study (BFS-
AS-306) was conducted which compared the efficacy and safety of BF SPIROMAX (DuoResp 
Spiromax,160/4.5 mcg twice daily [BID]) and BF TURBOHALER, the reference medicinal product 
(Symbicort Turbohaler, 200/6 mcg BID) over 12 weeks in both adult and adolescent patients with 
asthma. The efficacy results for adolescents and adults are discussed below. This was a 12-week, 
multicenter, double-blind, double-dummy, randomized, controlled Phase 3b study in which 48 
adolescents were enrolled. The primary endpoint was the change from baseline in weekly average 
morning peak expiratory flow (AM PEF).  
The primary endpoint of this study was met and non-inferior efficacy was considered to be 
demonstrated for BF SPIROMAX versus BF TURBOHALER by the MAH. While the sample size of the 
adolescent population did not allow for a formal statistical comparison, the available efficacy data 
indicated that BF SPIROMAX was efficacious in Adolescents patients. Although for establishing 
equivalence or non-inferiority, two endpoints (FEV1 or PEF) should be measured i.e. after 12 hour (to 
assess the LABA component) and 24 hour (to assess the ICS component) of withdrawal of the 
ICS/LABA inhaler; CHMP considered these efficacy results as supportive data for this extension of 
indication to adolescents despite the study limitations (choice of endpoints and low numbers of 
adolescents included). 
Extrapolation 
In adults and adolescents with asthma, the relationship between the inspiratory flow rates achievable 
with the SPIROMAX and the TURBOHALER devices were found to be equivalent for adults and 
adolescents. According to the MAH, the fact that the inspiratory flow rates achieved by adolescents 
with SPIROMAX compared to TURBOHALER are equivalent to the same comparison for adult inspiratory 
flow rates supports that equivalence of BF SPIROMAX and BF TURBOHALER demonstrated in adults 
could reasonably be extrapolated to adolescents.  
It was also highlighted that the approval for use in adolescents based on adult data is consistent with 
the many therapeutic similarities in the use of ICS/LABA combinations in adult and adolescent patients. 
While in some cases a lower dose of an ICS/LABA combination has been developed for paediatric 
patients, the development of lower doses has not been required for the adolescent population. 
Accordingly, there is no dose adjustment in the BF combinations used to treat adults versus adolescent 
patients with asthma. The therapeutic similarity between adult and adolescent patients with asthma is 
also reflected in the Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA) recommendations (GINA 2020). While the 
therapeutic recommendations for children aged 6 through 11 years are distinct, the therapeutic 
recommendations for adolescent patients are the same as those for adult patients.  
Overall, CHMP considered that the respective requirements for the availability of paediatric data 
defined in the orally inhaled products (OIPs) guideline (CHMP/EWP/4151/00 Rev. 1) are no longer 
interpreted as narrowly as in 2014 when the medicinal product was first approved. Furthermore, CHMP 
acknowledged that there are now several precedents in decentralised procedures where a lower age 
limit of 12 years has been granted, and provided that the reference product included an adolescent 
indication and that therapeutic equivalence in adults was demonstrated for the reference medicinal 
product. Moreover, in both pharmacokinetic / bioequivalence studies in adults (BFS-BE-108 and BFS-
BE-109) exposure to the active moieties included in DuoResp Spiromax (middle strength: 160/4.5; 
high strength: 320/9) was shown to be equivalent to the respective presentations of the reference 
medicinal product (Symbicort Turbohaler), both in the presence and absence of charcoal block. 
Therefore, CHMP agreed with the MAH’s position i.e. that the benefit/risk obtained in adults based on 
PK studies in healthy volunteers can be extrapolated to adolescents in asthma, taking into 
consideration that the lungs of adults and adolescents are sufficiently comparable.  
As part of this application, the MAH also submitted a type IB variation to remove the warning 
regarding the risk of growth retardation in children and the guidance on how to address this risk as the 
product was initially authorised in Adults only. Nevertheless, as the extension of indication to 
Adolescents is considered to be approvable by CHMP, it was deemed necessary to retain the above-
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 19/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mentioned warning in DuoResp Spiromax PI. Thus, the changes proposed as part of this type IB 
variation were withdrawn by the MAH.  
2.4.2.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The final indication granted by CHMP is as follows:  
DuoResp Spiromax is indicated in adults and adolescents (12 years and older) for the regular 
treatment of asthma, where use of a combination (inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting β2 
adrenoceptor agonist) is appropriate: 
-in patients not adequately controlled with inhaled corticosteroids and “as needed” inhaled short-acting 
β2 adrenoceptor agonists. 
or 
-in patients already adequately controlled on both inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting β2 
adrenoceptor agonists. 
2.5.  Clinical safety 
Introduction 
The MAH provided 10 literature references to support this variation application. Only relevant Lit Ref 
are presented/discussed below.  
(4)  Cates  at  al.  Inhaled  steroids  with  and  without  regular  salmeterol  for  asthma:  serious 
adverse events 
The primary objective of this study was to assess risks of mortality and non-fatal serious adverse 
events (SAEs) in trials that randomised participants with chronic asthma to regular salmeterol and ICS 
versus the same dose of ICS. Randomised trials were identified using the Cochrane Airways Group 
Specialised Register of trials. The date of the most recent search was 10 October 2018. 
Parallel-design randomised trials involving adults, children, or both with asthma of any severity who 
were randomised to treatment with regular salmeterol and ICS (in separate or combined inhalers) 
versus the same dose of ICS of at least 12 weeks in duration were included. 
The data from 41 studies (27,951 participants) in adults and adolescents, along with eight studies 
(8453 participants) in children were analysed. All except 542 adults (and none of the children) were 
given salmeterol and fluticasone in the same (combination) inhaler. 
Deaths 
Eleven of a total of 14,233 adults taking regular salmeterol and ICS died, as did 13 of 13,718 taking 
regular ICS at the same dose. The pooled Peto odds ratio (OR) was 0.80 (95% confidence interval (CI) 
0.36 to 1.78; participants = 27,951; studies = 41; IQ = 0%; moderate-certainty evidence), i.e. for 
every 1000 adults treated for 25 weeks, one death occurred among those on ICS alone, and the 
corresponding risk among those taking salmeterol and ICS was also one death (95% CI 0 to 2 deaths). 
No children died, and no adults or children died of asthma, therefore the mortality in children and the 
asthma mortality in any age group remain uncertain. 
Non-fatal serious adverse events 
A total of 332 adults receiving regular salmeterol with ICS experienced a non-fatal SAE of any cause, 
compared to 282 adults receiving regular ICS. The pooled Peto OR was 1.14 (95% CI 0.97 to 1.33; 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 20/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
participants = 27,951; studies = 41; IQ = 0%; moderate-certainty evidence). For every 1000 adults 
treated for 25 weeks, 21 adults on ICS alone had an SAE, and the corresponding risk for those on 
salmeterol and ICS was 23 adults (95% CI 20 to 27).  
Sixty-five of 4229 children given regular salmeterol with ICS suffered an SAE of any cause, compared 
to 62 of 4224 children given regular ICS. The pooled Peto OR was 1.04 (95% CI 0.73 to 1.48; 
participants = 8453; studies = 8; IQ = 0%; moderate-certainty evidence). For every 1000 children 
treated for 23 weeks, 15 children on ICS alone had an SAE, and the corresponding risk for those on 
salmeterol and ICS was 15 children (95% CI 11 to 22). 
Asthma-related serious adverse events 
Eighty and 67 adults in each group, respectively, experienced an asthma-related non-fatal SAE. The 
pooled Peto OR was 1.15 (95% CI 0.83 to 1.59; participants = 27,951; studies = 41; IQ = 0%; low-
certainty evidence). For every 1000 adults treated for 25 weeks, five receiving ICS alone had an 
asthma-related SAE, and the corresponding risk among those on salmeterol and ICS was six adults 
(95% CI 4 to 8). 
Twenty-nine children taking salmeterol and ICS and 23 children taking ICS alone reported asthma-
related events. The pooled Peto OR was 1.25 (95% CI 0.72 to 2.16; participants = 8453; studies = 8; 
IQ = 0%; moderate-certainty evidence). For every 1000 children treated for 23 weeks, five receiving 
an ICS alone had an asthma-related SAE, and the corresponding risk among those receiving salmeterol 
and ICS was seven children (95% CI 4 to 12). 
Authors' conclusions 
The risk of death or serious adverse events in either adults or children was no different. However, trial 
authors reported no asthma deaths among 27,951 adults or 8453 children randomised to regular 
salmeterol and ICS or ICS alone over an average of six months. 
Therefore, the risk of dying from asthma on either treatment was very low, but we remain uncertain 
about whether the risk of dying from asthma is altered by adding salmeterol to ICS. 
Base on this data it can be estimated that at least 152 adults and 139 children must be treated with 
combination salmeterol and ICS for six months for one additional person to be admitted to the hospital 
(compared to treatment with ICS alone). These possible risks still have to be weighed against the 
benefits experienced by people who take combination treatment. 
(7)  Jorup  et  al.  Budesonide/formoterol  maintenance  and  reliever  therapy  in  adolescent 
patients with asthma 
Safety 
The incidence of adverse events and the types of adverse events reported were similar for adolescents 
receiving BUD/FORM MART and those receiving comparator treatments. 
The proportion of adolescents experiencing a serious adverse event or discontinuing due to an adverse 
event was very low and similar between treatment comparisons.  
All treatments were well tolerated and there were no adverse events with fatal outcomes reported 
among adolescents using BUD/FORM MART or comparators. 
(10)  Ole  D.  Wolthers,  Budesonide  +  formoterol  fumarate  dihydrate  for  the  treatment  of 
asthma  
Safety and tolerability 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 21/31 
 
 
 
Conventionally, systemic activity of inhaled corticosteroids in adults has been assessed by urine 
cortisol measures of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal-function. Extensive evaluations have not indicated 
that inhaled budesonide in recommended doses in adults with asthma may cause clinically significant 
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal insufficiency and there are no data to suggest that this may be 
different with the fixed combination of budesonide-formoterol fumarate dihydrate. If sensitive 
repetitive serum measures of basal adrenal activity are used, however, dose-related suppressive 
effects with specific application systems may be detected. Such evaluations of the fixed combination of 
budesonide-formoterol fumarate dehydrate appear not to have been reported. 
Hypokalemia, hyperglycemia, and tachycardia are possible systemic effects of LABAs. Mortality and 
asthma-related serious adverse events, overall and cardiac serious adverse events, and 
discontinuations due to adverse events were assessed in six double-blind, randomized clinical trials in 
14,346 adolescents and adults with asthma during dry powder budesonide+formoterol fumarate 
dihydrate maintenance and reliever therapy for at least 6 months. The pooled data from the six trials 
showed that budesonide+formoterol fumarate dihydrate was well tolerated and was not found to be 
associated with an increased risk of death or cardiac-related serious adverse events or discontinuations 
due to adverse events.  
A recent analysis with additional data supported the observations. The tolerability profile of the fixed 
combination of budesonide+formoterol fumarate dihydrate appears to correspond with its individual 
components, the treatment being generally well tolerated with ≤10% of patients experiencing 
treatment-related adverse effects. Oropharyngeal candidiasis, dysphonia, tremor, palpitations, and 
pneumonia were the most frequent complaints. Tolerability profiles would be expected not to differ 
between the commercially available dry powder combinations of budesonide+formoterol fumarate 
dihydrate. There are no tolerability profile head-to-head comparisons with other fixed combinations. 
Finally, a randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, crossover, placebo- controlled study assessed the 
acute tolerability of budesonide+ formoterol fumarate dihydrate in 14 patients with asthma in whom 
two inhalations of 160/4.5 μg twice daily and 10 additional doses adding up to a total daily dose of 
1920 + 54 μg; or formoterol fumarate dihydrate 54 μg/day; or placebo on three separate study days. 
Statistically significant changes in serum potassium, pulse rate, blood pressure, QTinterval, blood 
glucose, and plasma lactate occurring with budesonide+formoterol fumarate dihydrate treatment were 
considered clinically unimportant. The authors concluded that the fixed combination of 
budesonide+formoterol fumarate dihydrate was well tolerated at high doses such as might be used by 
patients using the combination inhaler for relief of symptoms of asthma. 
In addition, upon request by CHMP, the MAH discussed the results of a Phase 3b study (Study BFS-AS-
306) to which 48 adolescents were enrolled.  
Study BFS-AS-306 
Study BFS-AS-306 assessed safety by evaluating reported adverse events, clinical laboratory test 
results, vital signs measurements, physical examination findings, oropharyngeal examination findings, 
and concomitant medication usage. 
Patient exposure 
A total of 303 patients in the BF SPIROMAX treatment group received at least 1 dose of study drug and 
were included in the safety population. A total of 117 of those patients (39%) reported at least 1 
adverse event; 14 patients (5%) had treatment-related adverse events, 1 patient (<1%) had a serious 
adverse event, and 2 patients (<1%) withdrew due to adverse events. No patient died during the 
study (Table 6). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 22/31 
 
 
 
Adverse events 
Overview of Adverse Events by Treatment Group and Age 
The proportion of patients reporting adverse events and treatment-related adverse events was similar 
or lower for adolescent patients in the BF SPIROMAX treatment group when compared either to 
adolescent patients who received BF TURBOHALER, or to the adult (18 through 64 years) and senior (≥
65 years) patients treated with BF SPIROMAX (Table 7). 
Adverse Events Occurring in at Least 2% of the Population by Treatment Group and Age Category 
The distribution of frequently reported adverse events (occurring in 2% or more of patients in the BF 
SPIROMAX treatment group) varied somewhat among age categories but incidence was low for all 
system organ classes (SOCs) and preferred terms (PTs) (Table 8). 
The number (%) of frequently reported adverse events (≥2%) in adolescent patients treated with BF 
SPIROMAX was low (3 [17%]) when compared to both adolescent patients treated with BF 
TURBOHALER (11 [55%]), or to adults 18 through 64 years (96 [40%]) or seniors 65 years and older 
(18 [42%]) treated with BF SPIROMAX (Table 8). 
Table 7: Overview of Adverse Events by Treatment Group and Age Category (Safety Population) 
Table 8: Adverse Events Occurring in at Least 2% of the Population by System Organ Class, Preferred 
Term, Treatment Group, and Age Category (Safety Population) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 23/31 
 
 
 
 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 24/31 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment-Related Adverse Events by Treatment Group and Age Category 
In all the age subgroups, the proportion of patients reporting treatment-related adverse events was 
low (Table 9). The proportion was similar for patients in the BF SPIROMAX treatment group in all 3 age 
categories (Table 9). The only treatment-related adverse events reported in the adolescent age 
subgroup was cough in 1 patient (6%) which is a commonly reported adverse reaction associated with 
budesonide or formoterol (SYMBICORT TURBOHALER SmPC). 
Table 9: Treatment-Related Adverse Events by System Organ Class, Preferred Term, Treatment Group, 
and Age Category (Safety Population) 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 25/31 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse events 
Overall in the total study population, there were no deaths and a total of 4 (<1%) patients had serious 
adverse events during the treatment period; 3 (1%) patients receiving BF TURBOHALER 200/6 mcg 
and 1 (<1%) patient receiving BF SPIROMAX 160/4.5 mcg. 
In the adolescent age subgroup, there were no serious adverse events reported in either the BF 
SPIROMAX or the BF TURBOHALER treatment group. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Overall in the total study population, there were a total of 4 (<1%) patients who discontinued from the 
study due to adverse events; 2 (<1%) patients in each treatment group. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 26/31 
 
 
 
 
 
In the adolescent age subgroup, there were no adverse events resulting in study discontinuation in 
either the BF SPIROMAX or the BF TURBOHALER treatment group. 
Post marketing experience 
Post-marketing safety data for the adolescent age group has been collected since the original 
marketing authorization for DuoResp Spiromax as part of routine periodic safety update reports 
(PSURs). The available IQVIA MIDAS Health data from 2014 to the end of first half of 2019 for 
European Union 5 countries (France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and United Kingdom) show that there 
were over 34,000 off-label prescriptions to patients aged 12 through 17 years, accounting for the 
significant exposure in this population (0.43% to 1.59% of all yearly prescriptions). However, there 
were no safety signals or issues found in this population based on the post-marketing data.  
2.5.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
No new studies were submitted as a part of this variation, which is considered acceptable by CHMP.  
The MAH provided 10 literature references to support this variation application.  
(4) Cates at al. Inhaled steroids with and without regular salmeterol for asthma: serious adverse events 
This review investigated the safety of salmeterol and therefore the relevance of this study in the 
context of this variation is low. In this review, there were no major safety concerns in children 
receiving ICS+LABA (salmeterol) combination as compared to adults.  
(7)  Jorup  et  al.  Budesonide/formoterol  maintenance  and  reliever  therapy  in  adolescent  patients  with 
asthma 
The incidence and type of AEs reported were similar for adolescents receiving BUD/FORM MART and 
those receiving comparator treatments. The proportion of adolescents experiencing a SEA or 
discontinuing due to an AE was very low and similar between treatment comparisons. All treatments 
were well tolerated and there were no adverse events with fatal outcomes reported among adolescents 
using BUD/FORM MART or comparators. 
(10) Ole D. Wolthers, Budesonide + formoterol fumarate dihydrate for the treatment of asthma  
Extensive evaluations have not indicated that inhaled budesonide in recommended doses in adults with 
asthma may cause clinically significant hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal insufficiency and there are no 
data to suggest that this may be different with the FDC of budesonide-formoterol fumarate dihydrate.  
Hypokalemia, hyperglycemia, and tachycardia are possible systemic effects of LABAs. Mortality and 
asthma-related SAEs, overall and cardiac SAEs, and discontinuations due to AEs were assessed in six 
double-blind, randomized clinical trials in 14,346 adolescents and adults with asthma during dry 
powder budesonide+formoterol fumarate dihydrate maintenance and reliever therapy for at least 6 
months. The pooled data from the six trials showed that budesonide+formoterol fumarate dihydrate 
was well tolerated and was not found to be associated with an increased risk of death or cardiac-
related SAEs or discontinuations due to AEs.  
A recent analysis with additional data supported these observations. The tolerability profile of the FDC 
of budesonide+formoterol fumarate dihydrate appears to correspond with its individual components, 
the treatment being generally well tolerated with ≤10% of patients experiencing treatment-related 
AEs. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 27/31 
 
 
 
 Oropharyngeal candidiasis, dysphonia, tremor, palpitations, and pneumonia were the most frequent 
complaints. Tolerability profiles would be expected not to differ between the commercially available dry 
powder combinations of budesonide+formoterol fumarate dihydrate. There were no tolerability profile 
head-to-head comparisons with other fixed combinations.  
A randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, crossover, placebo- controlled study assessed the acute 
tolerability of budesonide+ formoterol fumarate dihydrate in 14 patients with asthma in whom two 
inhalations of 160/4.5 μg twice daily and 10 additional doses adding up to a total daily dose of 1920 + 
54 μg; or formoterol fumarate dihydrate 54 μg/day; or placebo on three separate study days. 
Statistically significant changes in serum potassium, pulse rate, blood pressure, QT interval, blood 
glucose, and plasma lactate occurring with budesonide+formoterol fumarate dihydrate treatment were 
considered clinically unimportant. The authors concluded that the fixed combination of 
budesonide+formoterol fumarate dihydrate was well tolerated at high doses such as might be used by 
patients using the combination inhaler for relief of symptoms of asthma. 
In addition, the MAH discussed the results of a Phase 3b study (Study BFS-AS-306) to which 48 
adolescents were enrolled.This study was a 12-week, multicentre, double-blind, double-dummy, 
randomized, controlled trial and the primary endpoint was the change from baseline in weekly average 
morning peak expiratory flow (AM PEF). Safety was assessed by evaluation of adverse events. 
In relation to safety, no major issues were identified in this study.  
The proportion of patients reporting adverse events and treatment-related adverse events was similar 
or lower for adolescent patients in the BF SPIROMAX treatment group when compared either to 
adolescent patients who received BF TURBOHALER, or to the adult (18 through 64 years) and senior 
(≥65 years) age subgroups treated with BF SPIROMAX. 
Additionally, the number (%) of frequently reported adverse events (≥2%) in adolescent patients 
treated with BF SPIROMAX was low (3 [17%]) when compared both to adolescent patients treated with 
BF TURBOHALER (11 [55%]), or to adults 18 through 64 years (96 [40%]) or seniors 65 or older (18 
[42%]) treated with BF SPIROMAX.  
In the adolescent age subgroup, there were no deaths, no serious adverse events or adverse events 
resulting in study discontinuation reported in either the BF SPIROMAX or the BF TURBOHALER 
treatment group.  
Furthermore, the MAH clarified that, post-marketing safety data that covered the adolescent age group 
has been collected since the original MA for DuoResp Spiromax. The available IQVIA MIDAS Health 
data from 2014 to the end of first half of 2019 for EU 5 counties (France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and 
United Kingdom) show that there were over 34,000 off-label prescriptions of DuoResp Spiromax to 
patients aged 12 through 17 years, accounting for the significant exposure in this population (0.43% 
to 1.59% of all yearly prescriptions). However, there were no safety signals or issues found in this 
population based on the post-marketing data. 
Lastly, CHMP also considered that extrapolation of clinical safety data from adults to adolescents in the 
asthma indication was acceptable and provided further support on the safety of DuoResp Spiromax for 
the treatment of adolescent patients with asthma.  
2.5.2.  Conclusions on clinical safety 
The use of DuoResp Spiromax in Adolescents patients is agreed by CHMP from a safety perspective.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 28/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.3.  PSUR cycle  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.6.  Risk management plan 
The MAH submitted/was requested to submit an updated RMP version with this application.  
The PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 3.3 is acceptable.  
The CHMP endorsed the Risk Management Plan version 3.3 with the following content: 
Safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
None 
None 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance requirements are not considered necessary and routine 
pharmacovigilance activities are considered sufficient to monitor the benefit-risk profile of the product 
and to detect any safety concerns. 
No routine pharmacovigilance activities beyond adverse reactions reporting and signal detection are 
proposed. 
Risk minimisation measures 
The safety information in the proposed product information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
2.7.  Update of the Product information 
As a consequence, sections 4.1, 4.2, and 5.1 of the SmPC have been updated. The Package Leaflet has 
been updated accordingly.  
Changes were made to sections 4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC to align information with the reference 
medicinal product, Symbicort Turbohaler.  
Changes were also made to the PI to bring it in line with the current QRD template, which were 
reviewed and accepted by the CHMP. 
In addition, the list of local representatives in the PL has been revised to amend contact details for the 
representatives of Greece, Island, Ireland and Malta.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 29/31 
 
 
 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
A justification for not performing a full user consultation with target patient groups on the package 
leaflet has been submitted by the MAH and has been found acceptable for the following reasons: 
The extension of the asthma indication to include adolescents aged 12 years and over for both the 
DuoResp Spiromax and BiResp Spiromax licenses, does not alter the safety/efficacy profile of the 
product. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance 
DuoResp Spiromax was approved in the EU on 28th April 2014 for the use in Asthma for adults only. 
With this application, the MAH proposed to extend the use in Asthma for the Adolescents patients.  
Based on the efficacy and safety of the BF combination in adults with asthma, CHMP considered that it 
is acceptable to extrapolate available clinical efficacy and safety data from adults to adolescents.  
Furthermore, in the supportive 12-week study (BFS-AS-306), efficacy and safety in adolescent patients 
treated with BF SPIROMAX (160/4.5 mcg) were similar to those in adolescent patients treated with BF 
TURBOHALER (200/6 mcg) and were similar or better when compared to adult (18 through 64 years) 
or senior (65 years and older) patients treated with BF SPIROMAX. In relation to safety, no major 
issues were identified in this study. In addition, there were no safety signals or issues found in this 
population based on the post-marketing data.  
Thus, the orally inhaled combination can be used in adolescents (12 years and older) for the regular 
treatment of asthma, where use of a combination (inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting β2 
adrenoceptor agonist) is appropriate: in patients not adequately controlled with inhaled corticosteroids 
and “as needed” inhaled short-acting β2 adrenoceptor agonists; or in patients already adequately 
controlled on both inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting β2 adrenoceptor agonists.  
3.1.  Conclusions 
The overall B/R of DuoResp Spiromax is positive. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following group of variations 
acceptable and therefore recommends the variations to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, 
concerning the following changes: 
Variation accepted 
Type 
Annexes 
affected 
C.I.6.a  
C.I.6.a - Change(s) to therapeutic indication(s) - Addition 
Type II 
I, II, IIIA 
of a new therapeutic indication or modification of an 
and IIIB 
approved one  
Extension of Indication to include adolescents (12 years and older) for the regular treatment of 
asthma, where use of a combination (inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting β2 adrenoceptor agonist) 
is appropriate: in patients not adequately controlled with inhaled corticosteroids and “as needed” 
inhaled short-acting β2 adrenoceptor agonists; or in patients already adequately controlled on both 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 30/31 
 
 
 
inhaled corticosteroids and long-acting β2 adrenoceptor agonists. As a consequence, sections 4.1, 4.2, 
and 5.1 of the SmPC have been updated and the labelling and Package Leaflet have been updated 
accordingly. In addition, Changes were made to sections 4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC to align information 
with the reference medicinal product, Symbicort Turbohaler. The MAH also took the opportunity to 
make administrative updates to the Greek, Islandic, Irish and Maltese local representatives phone 
numbers in the Package Leaflet. Furthermore, the PI is brought in line with the latest QRD template 
version 10.2. RMP version 3.3 is considered acceptable.  
Amendments to the marketing authorisation 
In view of the data submitted with the type II variation, amendments to Annexes I, II, IIIA and IIIB 
and to the Risk Management Plan (RMP) are recommended. 
5.  EPAR changes 
The EPAR will be updated following Commission Decision for this group of variations. In particular the 
EPAR module 8 "steps after the authorisation" will be updated as follows: 
Scope 
Please refer to the Recommendations section above. 
Summary 
Please refer to Scientific Discussion ‘DuoResp Spiromax EMEA/H/C/002348/II/0033’. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/310290/2021  
Page 31/31 
 
 
 
 
