30 April 2020 
EMA/271549/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): budesonide / formoterol 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010585/201908 
Period covered by the PSUR: 24/08/2016 To: 24/08/2019 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for budesonide / formoterol, the 
scientific conclusions of the CHMP are as follows:  
In view of available data on ‘dysphonia’ from clinical trials, the literature and cases reports presented, 
the PRAC considers that a causal relationship between budesonide/formoterol and dysphonia is 
established. The current product information lists ‘hoarseness’ as an undesirable effect in section 4.8 of 
the SmPC with a ‘common’ frequency. the PRAC agreed that ‘hoarseness’ is a term that might be 
reported in practice, however other terms might be reported as well. ‘Hoarseness’ is considered a sub-
element of ‘dysphonia’ and the two terms cannot be used interchangeably. Therefore, the preferred 
term (PT) ‘dysphonia’ should be included in the product information. However, to indicate that 
‘hoarseness’ is the most frequently reported lowest level terms (LLT) under the PT ‘dysphonia’ it is 
proposed to update the product information with ‘dysphonia including hoarseness’. The PRAC concluded 
that the product information of products containing budesonide/formoterol should be amended 
accordingly.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for budesonide / formoterol the CHMP is of the opinion that 
the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing budesonide / formoterol is unchanged 
subject to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/271549/2020 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
