ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
DuoTrav 40 micrograms/mL + 5 mg/mL eye drops, solution 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each mL of solution contains 40 micrograms of travoprost and 5 mg of timolol (as timolol maleate). 
Excipient(s) with known effect 
Each mL of solution contains polyquaternium-1 (POLYQUAD) 10 microgram, propylene glycol 
7.5 mg and polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil 40 1 mg (see section 4.4). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Eye drops, solution (eye drops). 
Clear, colourless solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
DuoTrav is indicated in adults for the decrease of intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with 
open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension who are insufficiently responsive to topical beta blockers 
or prostaglandin analogues (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Use in adults, including the elderly 
The dose is one drop of DuoTrav in the conjunctival sac of the affected eye(s) once daily, in the 
morning or evening. It should be administered at the same time each day. 
If a dose is missed, treatment should be continued with the next dose as planned. The dose should not 
exceed one drop in the affected eye(s) daily. 
Special populations 
Hepatic and renal impairment 
No studies have been conducted with DuoTrav or with timolol 5 mg/mL eye drops in patients with 
hepatic or renal impairment. 
Travoprost has been studied in patients with mild to severe hepatic impairment and in patients with 
mild to severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance as low as 14 mL/min). No dose adjustment was 
necessary in these patients. 
Patients with hepatic or renal impairment are unlikely to require dose adjustment with DuoTrav (see 
section 5.2). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of DuoTrav in children and adolescents below the age of 18 years have not 
been established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
For ocular use. 
The patient should remove the protective overwrap immediately prior to initial use. To prevent 
contamination of the dropper tip and solution, care must be taken not to touch the eyelids, surrounding 
areas or other surfaces with the dropper tip of the bottle. 
When nasolacrimal occlusion is used or the eyelids are closed for 2 minutes, systemic absorption is 
reduced. This may result in a decrease in systemic side effects and an increase in local activity (see 
section 4.4). 
If more than one topical ophthalmic medicinal product is being used, the medicinal products must be 
administered at least 5 minutes apart (see section 4.5). 
When substituting another ophthalmic antiglaucoma medicinal product with DuoTrav, the other 
medicinal product should be discontinued and DuoTrav should be started the following day. 
Patients must be instructed to remove soft contact lenses prior to application of DuoTrav and wait 
15 minutes after instillation of the dose before reinsertion (see section 4.4). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances, or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Hypersensitivity to other beta blockers. 
Reactive airway disease including bronchial asthma, or a history of bronchial asthma, severe chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease. 
Sinus bradycardia, sick sinus syndrome, including sino-atrial block, second- or third-degree 
atrioventricular block not controlled with pacemaker. Overt cardiac failure, cardiogenic shock. Severe 
allergic rhinitis and corneal dystrophies. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Systemic effects 
Like other topically applied ophthalmic agents, travoprost and timolol are absorbed systemically. Due 
to the beta-adrenergic component, timolol, the same types of cardiovascular, pulmonary and other 
adverse reactions seen with systemic beta-adrenergic blocking medicinal products may occur. The 
incidence of systemic ADRs after topical ophthalmic administration is lower than for systemic 
administration. For information on how to reduce systemic absorption, see section 4.2. 
Cardiac disorders 
In patients with cardiovascular diseases (e.g. coronary heart disease, Prinzmetal’s angina and cardiac 
failure) and hypotension, therapy with beta blockers should be critically assessed and therapy with 
other active substances should be considered. Patients with cardiovascular diseases should be watched 
for signs of deterioration of these diseases and of adverse reactions. 
Due to their negative effect on conduction time, beta blockers should only be given with caution to 
patients with first-degree heart block. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vascular disorders 
Patients with severe peripheral circulatory disturbance/disorders (i.e. severe forms of Raynaud’s 
disease or Raynaud’s syndrome) should be treated with caution. 
Respiratory disorders 
Respiratory reactions, including death due to bronchospasm in patients with asthma, have been 
reported following administration of some ophthalmic beta blockers. 
DuoTrav should be used with caution in patients with mild/moderate chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD) and only if the potential benefit outweighs the potential risk. 
Hypoglycaemia/diabetes 
Beta blockers should be administered with caution in patients subject to spontaneous hypoglycaemia 
or in patients with labile diabetes, as beta blockers may mask the signs and symptoms of acute 
hypoglycaemia. 
Muscle weakness 
Beta-adrenergic blocking medicinal products have been reported to potentiate muscle weakness 
consistent with certain myasthenic symptoms (e.g. diplopia, ptosis and generalised weakness). 
Corneal diseases 
Ophthalmic beta blockers may induce dryness of eyes. Patients with corneal diseases should be treated 
with caution. 
Choroidal detachment 
Choroidal detachment has been reported with administration of aqueous suppressant therapy (e.g. 
timolol, acetazolamide) after filtration procedures. 
Other beta-blocking agents 
The effect on intra-ocular pressure or the known effects of systemic beta blockade may be potentiated 
when timolol is given to patients already receiving a systemic beta-blocking medicinal product. The 
response of these patients should be closely observed. The use of two topical beta-adrenergic blocking 
agents is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Surgical anaesthesia 
Beta-blocking ophthalmological preparations may block systemic beta-agonist effects, e.g. of 
adrenaline. The anaesthetist should be informed when the patient is receiving timolol. 
Hyperthyroidism 
Beta blockers may mask the signs of hyperthyroidism. 
Skin contact 
Prostaglandins and prostaglandin analogues are biologically active substances that may be absorbed 
through the skin. Women who are pregnant or attempting to become pregnant should exercise 
appropriate precautions to avoid direct exposure to the contents of the bottle. In the unlikely event of 
coming in contact with a substantial portion of the contents of the bottle, thoroughly cleanse the 
exposed area immediately. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anaphylactic reactions 
While taking beta blockers, patients with a history of atopy or a history of severe anaphylactic reaction 
to a variety of allergens may be more reactive to repeated challenge with such allergens and 
unresponsive to the usual dose of adrenaline used to treat anaphylactic reactions. 
Concomitant therapy 
Timolol may interact with other medicinal products (see section 4.5). 
The use of two local prostaglandins is not recommended. 
Ocular effects 
Travoprost may gradually change the eye colour by increasing the number of melanosomes (pigment 
granules) in melanocytes. Before treatment is instituted, patients must be informed of the possibility of 
a permanent change in eye colour. Unilateral treatment can result in permanent heterochromia. The 
long-term effects on the melanocytes and any consequences thereof are currently unknown. The 
change in iris colour occurs slowly and may not be noticeable for months to years. The change in eye 
colour has predominantly been seen in patients with mixed coloured irides, i.e. blue-brown, 
grey-brown, yellow-brown and green-brown; however, it has also been observed in patients with 
brown eyes. Typically, the brown pigmentation around the pupil spreads concentrically towards the 
periphery in affected eyes, but the entire iris or parts of it may become more brownish. After 
discontinuation of therapy, no further increase in brown iris pigment has been observed. 
In controlled clinical trials, periorbital and/or eyelid skin darkening in association with the use of 
travoprost has been reported. 
Periorbital and lid changes, including deepening of the eyelid sulcus, have been observed with 
prostaglandin analogues. 
Travoprost may gradually change eyelashes in the treated eye(s); these changes were observed in 
about half of the patients in clinical trials and include: increased length, thickness, pigmentation, 
and/or number of lashes. The mechanism of eyelash changes and their long-term consequences are 
currently unknown. 
Travoprost has been shown to cause slight enlargement of the palpebral fissure in studies in the 
monkey. However, this effect was not observed during the clinical trials and is considered to be 
species specific. 
There is no experience of DuoTrav in inflammatory ocular conditions, nor in neovascular, 
angle-closure, narrow-angle or congenital glaucoma, and only limited experience in thyroid eye 
disease, in open-angle glaucoma of pseudophakic patients and in pigmentary or pseudoexfoliative 
glaucoma. 
Macular oedema has been reported during treatment with prostaglandin F2 analogues. Caution is 
recommended when using DuoTrav in aphakic patients, pseudophakic patients with a torn posterior 
lens capsule or anterior chamber lenses, or in patients with known risk factors for cystoid macular 
oedema. 
In patients with known predisposing risk factors for iritis/uveitis, and in patients with active 
intraocular inflammation, DuoTrav can be used with caution. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Excipients 
DuoTrav contains propylene glycol which may cause skin irritation. 
DuoTrav contains polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil 40 which may cause skin reactions. 
Patients must be instructed to remove contact lenses prior to application of DuoTrav and wait 
15 minutes after instillation of the dose before reinsertion (see section 4.2). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No specific drug interaction studies have been performed with travoprost or timolol. 
There is a potential for additive effects resulting in hypotension and/or marked bradycardia when 
ophthalmic beta-blocker solution is administered concomitantly with oral calcium channel blockers, 
beta-adrenergic blocking agents, antiarrhythmics (including amiodarone), digitalis glycosides, 
parasympathomimetics or guanethidine. 
The hypertensive reaction to sudden withdrawal of clonidine can be potentiated when taking beta 
blockers. 
Potentiated systemic beta blockade (e.g. decreased heart rate, depression) has been reported during 
combined treatment with CYP2D6 inhibitors (e.g. quinidine, fluoxetine, paroxetine) and timolol. 
Mydriasis resulting from concomitant use of ophthalmic beta blockers and adrenaline (epinephrine) 
has been reported occasionally. 
Beta blockers may increase the hypoglycaemic effect of antidiabetic medicinal products. Beta blockers 
can mask the signs and symptoms of hypoglycaemia (see section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/contraception 
DuoTrav must not be used in women of child-bearing age/potential unless adequate contraceptive 
measures are in place (see section 5.3). 
Pregnancy 
Travoprost has harmful pharmacological effects on pregnancy and/or the foetus/newborn child. 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of DuoTrav or the individual components in 
pregnant women. Timolol should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary. 
Epidemiological studies have not revealed malformative effects but show a risk for intrauterine growth 
retardation when beta blockers are administered by the oral route. In addition, signs and symptoms of 
beta blockade (e.g. bradycardia, hypotension, respiratory distress and hypoglycaemia) have been 
observed in the neonate when beta blockers have been administered until delivery. If DuoTrav is 
administered until delivery, the neonate should be carefully monitored during the first days of life. 
DuoTrav should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary. For information on how to 
reduce systemic absorption, see section 4.2. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether travoprost from eye drops is excreted in human breast milk. Animal studies 
have shown excretion of travoprost and metabolites in breast milk. Timolol is excreted in breast milk 
and has the potential to cause serious adverse reactions in the breast-fed infant. However, at 
therapeutic doses of timolol in eye drops it is not likely that sufficient amounts would be present in 
breast milk to produce clinical symptoms of beta blockade in the infant. For information on how to 
reduce systemic absorption, see section 4.2. 
The use of DuoTrav by breast-feeding women is not recommended. 
Fertility 
There are no data on the effects of DuoTrav on human fertility. Animal studies showed no effect of 
travoprost on fertility at doses up to 75 times the maximum recommended human ocular dose, whereas 
no relevant effect of timolol was noted at this dose level. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
DuoTrav has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. As with any eye drops, 
temporary blurred vision or other visual disturbances may occur. If blurred vision occurs at 
instillation, the patient must wait until the vision clears before driving or using machines. DuoTrav 
may also cause hallucinations, dizziness, nervousness and/or fatigue (see section 4.8) which may 
affect the ability to drive and use machines. Patients should be advised not to drive and use machines 
if these symptoms occur. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
In clinical studies involving 2,170 patients treated with DuoTrav the most frequently reported 
treatment-related adverse reaction was ocular hyperaemia (12.0%). 
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
The adverse reactions listed in the table below were observed in clinical studies or with post-marketing 
experience. They are ranked according to system organ class and classified according to the following 
convention: very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100), rare 
(≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000), very rare (<1/10,000), or not known (cannot be estimated from the available 
data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in decreasing order of 
seriousness. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class 
Immune system disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Adverse reactions 
Hypersensitivity 
Nervousness 
Hallucinations*, Depression 
Dizziness, headache 
Cerebrovascular accident, syncope, paraesthesia 
Frequency 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Very common  Ocular hyperaemia 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Not known 
Rare 
Punctate keratitis, eye pain, visual disturbance, 
vision blurred, dry eye, eye pruritus, ocular 
discomfort, eye irritation 
Keratitis, iritis, conjunctivitis, anterior chamber 
inflammation, blepharitis, photophobia, visual acuity 
reduced, asthenopia, eye swelling, lacrimation 
increased, erythema of eyelid, growth of eyelashes, 
eye allergy, conjunctival oedema, eyelid oedema 
Corneal erosion, meibomianitis, conjunctival 
haemorrhage, eyelid margin crusting, trichiasis, 
distichiasis 
Macular oedema, eyelid ptosis, lid sulcus deepened, 
iris hyperpigmentation, corneal disorder 
Bradycardia 
Arrhythmia, heart rate irregular 
Cardiac failure, tachycardia, chest pain, palpitations 
Hypertension, hypotension 
Oedema peripheral 
Dyspnoea, postnasal drip 
Dysphonia, bronchospasm, cough, throat irritation, 
oropharyngeal pain, nasal discomfort 
Asthma 
Dysgeusia 
Alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate 
aminotransferase increased 
Dermatitis contact, hypertrichosis, skin 
hyperpigmentation (periocular) 
Urticaria, skin discolouration, alopecia 
Rash 
Pain in extremity 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Rare 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
* adverse reactions observed with timolol. 
Rare 
Rare 
Chromaturia 
Thirst, fatigue 
8 
 
 
Additional adverse reactions that have been seen with one of the active substances and may potentially 
occur with DuoTrav: 
Travoprost 
System organ class 
Immune system disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Vascular disorders 
MedDRA preferred term 
Seasonal allergy 
Anxiety, insomnia 
Uveitis, conjunctival follicles, eye discharge, 
periorbital oedema, eyelids pruritus, ectropion, 
cataract, iridocyclitis, ophthalmic herpes 
simplex, eye inflammation, photopsia, eczema 
eyelids, halo vision, hypoaesthesia eye, anterior 
chamber pigmentation, mydriasis, eyelash 
hyperpigmentation, eyelash thickening, visual 
field defect 
Vertigo, tinnitus 
Blood pressure diastolic decreased, blood 
pressure systolic increased 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders  Asthma aggravated, rhinitis allergic, epistaxis, 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
respiratory disorder, nasal congestion, nasal 
dryness  
Peptic ulcer reactivated, gastrointestinal 
disorder, diarrhoea, constipation, dry mouth, 
abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting 
Skin exfoliation, hair texture abnormal, 
dermatitis allergic, hair colour changes, 
madarosis, pruritus, hair growth abnormal, 
erythema 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders  Musculoskeletal pain, arthralgia 
Renal and urinary disorders 
General disorders and administration site 
conditions 
Investigations 
Dysuria, urinary incontinence 
Asthenia 
Prostatic specific antigen increased 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
Timolol 
Like other topically applied ophthalmic medicinal products, timolol is absorbed into the systemic 
circulation. This may cause undesirable effects similar to those seen with systemic beta-blocking 
agents. Additional listed adverse reactions include reactions seen within the class of ophthalmic beta 
blockers. The incidence of systemic ADRs after topical ophthalmic administration is lower than for 
systemic administration. For information on how to reduce systemic absorption, see section 4.2. 
System organ class 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
MedDRA preferred term 
Systemic allergic reactions including 
angioedema, urticaria, localised and generalised 
rash, pruritus, anaphylaxis 
Hypoglycaemia 
Hallucinations, insomnia, nightmares, memory 
loss 
Cerebral ischaemia, increases in signs and 
symptoms of myasthenia gravis 
Signs and symptoms of ocular irritation (e.g. 
burning, stinging, itching, tearing, redness), 
choroidal detachment following filtration 
surgery (see section 4.4), decreased corneal 
sensitivity, diplopia 
Oedema, congestive heart failure, 
atrioventricular block, cardiac arrest 
Raynaud’s phenomenon, cold hands and feet 
Nausea, dyspepsia, diarrhoea, dry mouth, 
abdominal pain, vomiting 
Psoriasiform rash or exacerbation of psoriasis 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders  Myalgia 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
General disorders and administration site 
conditions 
Sexual dysfunction, decreased libido 
Asthenia 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
A topical overdose with DuoTrav is not likely to occur or to be associated with toxicity. 
In case of accidental ingestion, symptoms of overdose from systemic beta blockade may include 
bradycardia, hypotension, bronchospasm and heart failure. 
If overdose with DuoTrav occurs, treatment should be symptomatic and supportive. Timolol does not 
dialyse readily. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Ophthalmologicals; Antiglaucoma preparations and miotics, ATC code: 
S01ED51. 
Mechanism of action 
DuoTrav contains two active substances: travoprost and timolol maleate. These two components lower 
intraocular pressure by complementary mechanisms of action and the combined effect results in 
additional IOP reduction compared to either compound alone. 
Travoprost, a prostaglandin F2α analogue, is a full agonist which is highly selective and has a high 
affinity for the prostaglandin FP receptor, and reduces the intraocular pressure by increasing the 
outflow of aqueous humour via trabecular meshwork and uveoscleral pathways. Reduction of IOP in 
man starts within approximately 2 hours after administration and maximum effect is reached after 
12 hours. Significant lowering of intraocular pressure can be maintained for periods exceeding 
24 hours with a single dose. 
Timolol is a non-selective adrenergic blocking agent that has no intrinsic sympathomimetic, direct 
myocardial depressant or membrane-stabilising activity. Tonography and fluorophotometry studies in 
man suggest that its predominant action is related to reduced aqueous humour formation and a slight 
increase in outflow facility. 
Secondary pharmacology 
Travoprost significantly increased optic nerve head blood flow in rabbits following 7 days of topical 
ocular administration (1.4 micrograms once daily). 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Clinical effects 
In a twelve-month controlled clinical study in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular 
hypertension and baseline mean IOP of 25 to 27 mmHg, the mean IOP-lowering effect of DuoTrav 
dosed once daily in the morning was 8 to 10 mmHg. The non-inferiority of DuoTrav as compared to 
latanoprost 50 micrograms/mL + timolol 5 mg/mL in the mean IOP reduction was demonstrated 
across all time-points at all visits. 
In a three-month controlled clinical study in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension 
and baseline mean IOP of 27 to 30 mmHg, the mean IOP-lowering effect of DuoTrav dosed once daily 
in the morning was 9 to 12 mmHg, and was up to 2 mmHg greater than that of travoprost 
40 micrograms/mL dosed once daily in the evening and 2 to 3 mmHg greater than that of timolol 
5 mg/mL dosed twice daily. A statistically superior reduction in morning mean IOP (08:00, 24 hours 
after the last dose of DuoTrav) was observed compared to travoprost at all visits throughout the study. 
In two three-month controlled clinical studies in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular 
hypertension and baseline mean IOP of 23 to 26 mmHg, the mean IOP-lowering effect of DuoTrav 
dosed once daily in the morning was 7 to 9 mmHg. Mean IOP reductions were non-inferior, although 
numerically lower, to those achieved by concomitant therapy with travoprost 40 micrograms/mL 
dosed once daily in the evening and timolol 5 mg/mL dosed once daily in the morning. 
In a 6-week controlled clinical study in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension and 
baseline mean IOP of 24 to 26 mmHg, the mean IOP-lowering effect of DuoTrav 
(polyquaternium-1-preserved) dosed once daily in the morning was 8 mmHg and equivalent to that of 
DuoTrav (benzalkonium chloride-preserved). 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inclusion criteria were common across the studies, with the exception of the IOP entry criteria and 
response to previous IOP therapy. The clinical development of DuoTrav included both patients naive 
and on therapy. Insufficient responsiveness to monotherapy was not an inclusion criterion. 
Existing data suggest that evening dosing might have some advantages as regards mean IOP reduction. 
Consideration should be given to patient convenience and their likely compliance when 
recommending morning vs. evening dosing. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Travoprost and timolol are absorbed through the cornea. Travoprost is a prodrug that undergoes rapid 
ester hydrolysis in the cornea to the active free acid. Following once-daily administration of DuoTrav 
PQ in healthy subjects (N=22) for 5 days, travoprost free acid was not quantifiable in plasma samples 
from the majority of subjects (94.4%) and generally was not detectable one hour after dosing. When 
measurable (0.01 ng/mL, the assay limit of quantitation), concentrations ranged from 
0.01 to 0.03 ng/mL. The mean timolol steady-state Cmax was 1.34 ng/ml and Tmax was approximately 
0.69 hours after once-daily administration of DuoTrav. 
Distribution 
Travoprost free acid can be measured in the aqueous humour during the first few hours in animals and 
in human plasma only during the first hour after ocular administration of DuoTrav. Timolol can be 
measured in human aqueous humour after ocular administration of timolol and in plasma for up to 
12 hours after ocular administration of DuoTrav. 
Biotransformation 
Metabolism is the major route of elimination of both travoprost and the active free acid. The systemic 
metabolic pathways parallel those of endogenous prostaglandin F2 which are characterised by 
reduction of the 13-14 double bond, oxidation of the 15-hydroxyl and -oxidative cleavages of the 
upper side chain. 
Timolol is metabolised by two pathways. One route yields an ethanolamine side chain on the 
thiadiazole ring and the other gives an ethanolic side chain on the morpholine nitrogen and a second 
similar side chain with a carbonyl group adjacent to the nitrogen. The plasma t 1/2 of timolol is 4 hours 
after ocular administration of DuoTrav. 
Elimination 
Travoprost free acid and its metabolites are mainly excreted by the kidneys. Less than 2% of an ocular 
dose of travoprost was recovered in urine as free acid. Timolol and its metabolites are primarily 
excreted by the kidneys. Approximately 20% of a timolol dose is excreted in the urine unchanged and 
the remainder excreted in urine as metabolites. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In monkeys, administration of DuoTrav twice daily was shown to induce increased palpebral fissure 
and to increase iris pigmentation similar to that observed with ocular administration of prostanoids. 
DuoTrav preserved with polyquaternium-1 induced minimal ocular surface toxicity, compared to eye 
drops preserved with benzalkonium chloride, on cultured human corneal cells and following topical 
ocular administration in rabbits. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Travoprost 
Topical ocular administration of travoprost to monkeys at concentrations of up to 0.012% to the right 
eye, twice daily for one year resulted in no systemic toxicity. 
Reproduction toxicity studies with travoprost have been undertaken in rats, mice and rabbits using the 
systemic route. Findings are related to FP receptor agonist activity in uterus with early 
embryolethality, post-implantation loss and foetotoxicity. In pregnant rats, systemic administration of 
travoprost at doses more than 200 times the clinical dose during the period of organogenesis resulted 
in an increased incidence of malformations. Low levels of radioactivity were measured in amniotic 
fluid and foetal tissues of pregnant rats administered 3H-travoprost. Reproduction and development 
studies have demonstrated a potent effect on foetal loss with a high rate observed in rats and mice 
(180 pg/mL and 30 pg/mL plasma, respectively) at exposures 1.2 to 6 times the clinical exposure (up 
to 25 pg/mL). 
Timolol 
Non-clinical data revealed no special hazard for humans with timolol based on conventional studies of 
safety pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential. Reproduction 
toxicity studies with timolol showed delayed foetal ossification in rats with no adverse effects on 
postnatal development (7000 times the clinical dose) and increased foetal resorptions in rabbits 
(14000 times the clinical dose). 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Polyquaternium-1 
Mannitol (E421) 
Propylene glycol (E1520) 
Polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil 40 (HCO-40) 
Boric acid 
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide and/ or hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) 
Purified water 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years. 
Discard 4 weeks after first opening. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 30°C. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
2.5 mL oval polypropylene (PP) or low-density polyethylene (LDPE) bottle and PP or LDPE 
dispensing plug with PP screw cap, presented in an overwrap. 
Pack sizes of 1, 3 or 6 bottles. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
No special requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/06/338/001-6 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 24 April 2006 
Date of last renewal: 07 October 2010 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
S.A. Alcon-Couvreur N.V. 
Rijksweg 14 
B-2870 Puurs 
Belgium 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
Siegfried El Masnou, S.A. 
Camil Fabra 58 
El Masnou 
08320 Barcelona 
Spain 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
17 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON FOR SINGLE BOTTLE 2.5 mL + CARTON FOR 3 x 2.5 mL BOTTLES + CARTON 
FOR 6 x 2.5 mL BOTTLES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
DuoTrav 40 micrograms/mL + 5 mg/mL eye drops, solution 
travoprost/timolol 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each mL of solution contains 40 micrograms travoprost and 5 mg timolol (as timolol maleate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains: Polyquaternium-1, mannitol (E421), propylene glycol (E1520), polyoxyethylene 
hydrogenated castor oil 40 (HCO-40), boric acid, sodium chloride, sodium hydroxide and/or 
hydrochloric acid (to adjust pH), purified water. 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Eye drops, solution. 
1 x 2.5 mL 
3 x 2.5 mL 
6 x 2.5 mL 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Ocular use 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE REACH AND SIGHT OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard 4 weeks after first opening. 
Opened: 
Opened (1): 
Opened (2): 
Opened (3): 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30°C. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/06/338/001 
EU/1/06/338/002 
EU/1/06/338/003 
EU/1/06/338/004 
EU/1/06/338/005 
EU/1/06/338/006 
1 x 2.5 ml – PP bottle 
3 x 2.5 ml – PP bottle 
6 x 2.5 ml – PP bottle 
1 x 2.5 ml – LDPE bottle 
3 x 2.5 ml – LDPE bottle 
6 x 2.5 ml – LDPE bottle 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
duotrav 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
DuoTrav 40 micrograms/mL + 5 mg/mL eye drops 
travoprost/timolol 
Ocular use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Open here 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard 4 weeks after first opening. 
Opened: 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
2.5 mL 
6 
OTHER 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
OVERWRAP 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
DuoTrav 40 micrograms/mL + 5 mg/mL eye drops 
travoprost/timolol 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard 4 weeks after first opening. 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
2.5 mL 
6 
OTHER 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
DuoTrav 40 micrograms/mL + 5 mg/mL eye drops, solution 
travoprost/timolol 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What DuoTrav is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use DuoTrav 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use DuoTrav 
Possible side effects 
How to store DuoTrav 
Contents of the pack and other information  
1.  What DuoTrav is and what it is used for 
DuoTrav eye drop solution is a combination of two active substances (travoprost and timolol). 
Travoprost is a prostaglandin analogue which works by increasing the outflow of aqueous fluid from 
the eye, which lowers its pressure. Timolol is a beta blocker which works by reducing the production 
of fluid within the eye. The two substances work together to reduce pressure within the eye. 
DuoTrav eye drops are used to treat high pressure in the eye in adults, including the elderly. This 
pressure can lead to an illness called glaucoma. 
2.  What you need to know before you use DuoTrav 
Do not use DuoTrav 
 
if you are allergic to travoprost, prostaglandins, timolol, beta blockers or any of the other 
ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
if you have now or have had in the past respiratory problems such as asthma, severe chronic 
obstructive bronchitis (severe lung disease which may cause wheeziness, difficulty in breathing 
and/or long-standing cough), or other types of breathing problems. 
if you have severe hay fever. 
if you have a slow heartbeat, heart failure or a disorder of heart rhythm (irregular heartbeat). 
if the surface of your eye is cloudy. 
 
 
 
 
Ask your doctor for advice if any of these applies to you. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warning and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before using DuoTrav if you have now or have had in the past 
 
coronary heart disease (symptoms can include chest pain or tightness, breathlessness or 
choking), heart failure, low blood pressure. 
disturbances of heart rate such as slow heartbeat. 
breathing problems, asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. 
poor blood circulation disease (such as Raynaud’s disease or Raynaud’s syndrome). 
diabetes (as timolol may mask signs and symptoms of low blood sugar). 
overactivity of the thyroid gland (as timolol may mask signs and symptoms of thyroid disease). 
myasthenia gravis (chronic neuromuscular weakness). 
cataract surgery. 
eye inflammation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you need to have any type of surgery, tell your doctor that you are using DuoTrav as timolol may 
change the effects of some medicines used during anaesthesia. 
If you get any severe allergic reaction (skin rash, redness and itching of the eye) while using DuoTrav, 
whatever the cause, adrenaline treatment may not be as effective. It is therefore important to tell the 
doctor that you are using DuoTrav when you are to receive any other treatment. 
DuoTrav may change the colour of your iris (the coloured part of your eye). This change may be 
permanent. 
DuoTrav may increase the length, thickness, colour and/or number of your eyelashes and may cause 
unusual hair growth on your eyelids. 
Travoprost may be absorbed through the skin and therefore should not be used by women who are 
pregnant or are attempting to become pregnant. If any of the medicine comes into contact with the skin 
then it should be washed off straight away. 
Children 
DuoTrav is not to be used by children and adolescents under 18 years of age. 
Other medicines and DuoTrav 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
DuoTrav can affect or be affected by other medicines you are using, including other eye drops for the 
treatment of glaucoma. Tell your doctor if you are using or intend to use medicines to lower blood 
pressure, heart medicines including quinidine (used to treat heart conditions and some types of 
malaria), medicines to treat diabetes or the antidepressants fluoxetine or paroxetine. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. 
Do not use DuoTrav if you are pregnant unless your doctor considers it necessary. If you could get 
pregnant you must use adequate contraception whilst you use the medicine. 
Do not use DuoTrav if you are breast-feeding. DuoTrav may get into your milk. 
Driving and using machines 
You may find that your vision is blurred for a time just after you use DuoTrav. DuoTrav may also 
cause hallucinations, dizziness, nervousness or fatigue in some patients. 
Do not drive or use machines until any such symptoms has worn off. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DuoTrav contains hydrogenated castor oil and propylene glycol which may cause skin reactions 
and irritation. 
3. 
How to use DuoTrav 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if 
you are not sure. 
The recommended dose is one drop in the affected eye or eyes once a day in the morning or in the 
evening. Use at the same time each day. 
Only use DuoTrav in both eyes if your doctor told you to do so. 
Only use DuoTrav as eye drops. 
1 
2 
3 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Wash your hands. 
 
 
 
Immediately before using a bottle for the first time, tear open the overwrap (picture 1), remove 
the bottle and write the date of opening on the label in the space provided. 
Make sure you have a mirror available. 
Twist off the bottle cap. 
Hold the bottle, pointing down, between your thumb and fingers. 
Tilt your head back. Pull your lower eyelid down with a clean finger until there is a “pocket” 
between the eyelid and your eye. The drop will go in here (picture 2). 
Bring the bottle dropper close to the eye. Use the mirror if it helps. 
Do not touch your eye or eyelid, the surrounding areas or other surfaces with the dropper. It 
could infect the drops. 
Gently squeeze the bottle to release one drop of DuoTrav at a time (picture 3). If a drop misses 
your eye, try again. 
After using DuoTrav, press your finger into the corner of your eye by your nose for 2 minutes 
(picture 4). This helps to stop DuoTrav getting into the rest of the body. 
If you have to use DuoTrav in both eyes, repeat the above steps for your other eye. 
Close the bottle cap firmly immediately after use. 
Only use one bottle at a time. Do not open the overwrap until you need to use the bottle. 
Use DuoTrav for as long as your doctor has told you to. 
If you use more DuoTrav than you should 
If you use more DuoTrav than you should, rinse it all out with warm water. Do not put in any more 
drops until it is time for your next regular dose. 
If you forget to use DuoTrav 
If you forget to use DuoTrav, continue with the next dose as planned. Do not use a double dose to 
make up for the forgotten dose. The dose should not exceed one drop daily in the affected eye(s). 
If you stop using DuoTrav 
If you stop using DuoTrav without speaking to your doctor the pressure in your eye will not be 
controlled, which could lead to loss of sight. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you are using other eye drops in addition to DuoTrav, leave at least 5 minutes between applying 
DuoTrav and the other drops. 
If you wear soft contact lenses do not use the drops with your lenses in. After using the drops wait 
15 minutes before putting your lenses back in. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects although not everybody gets them. 
You can usually carry on using the drops, unless the effects are serious. If you are worried, talk to a 
doctor or pharmacist. Do not stop using DuoTrav without speaking to your doctor. 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
Effects in the eye 
Eye redness. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
Effects in the eye 
Eye surface inflammation with surface damage, eye pain, blurred vision, abnormal vision, dry eye, 
itchy eye, eye discomfort, signs and symptoms of eye irritation (e.g. burning, stinging). 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
Effects in the eye 
Inflammation of the eye surface, inflammation of the eyelid, swollen conjunctiva, increased growth of 
eyelashes, iris inflammation, eye inflammation, sensitivity to light, reduced vision, tired eyes, eye 
allergy, eye swelling, increased tear production, eyelid redness, eyelid colour change, skin darkening 
(around the eye). 
General side effects 
Allergic reaction to active substance, dizziness, headache, increased or decreased blood pressure, 
shortness of breath, excessive hair growth, drip at back of throat, skin inflammation and itching, 
decreased heart rate. 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
Effects in the eye 
Thinning of the eye surface, inflammation of the eyelid glands, broken blood vessel in the eye, eyelid 
crusting, abnormally positioned eyelashes, abnormal growth of lashes. 
General side effects 
Nervousness, irregular heart rate, loss of hair, voice disorders, difficulty breathing, cough, throat 
irritation, hives, abnormal liver blood tests, skin discolouration, thirst, tiredness, discomfort inside of 
nose, coloured urine, pain in hands and feet. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
Effects in the eye 
Droopy eyelid (making the eye stay half closed), sunken eyes (eyes appear more inset), changes in the 
colour of the iris (coloured part of the eye). 
General side effects 
Rash, heart failure, chest pain, stroke, fainting, depression, asthma, increased heart rate, numbness or 
tingling sensation, palpitations, swelling in the lower limbs, bad taste. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additionally: 
DuoTrav is a combination of two active substances, travoprost and timolol. Like other medicines 
administered to the eyes, travoprost and timolol (a beta blocker) are absorbed into the blood. This may 
cause side effects similar to those seen when beta-blocking medicines that are administered by mouth 
or by injection. The incidence of side effects after administration to the eyes is lower than after 
administration by mouth or by injection. 
The side effects listed below include reactions seen with the class of beta blockers used for treating 
eye conditions or reactions seen with travoprost alone: 
Effects in the eye 
Inflammation of the eyelid, inflammation in the cornea, detachment of the layer below the retina that 
contains blood vessels following filtration surgery which may cause visual disturbances, decreased 
corneal sensitivity, corneal erosion (damage to the front layer of the eyeball), double vision, eye 
discharge, swelling around the eye, eyelid itching, outward turning of eyelid with redness, irritation 
and excessive tears, blurred vision (sign of clouding of the eye lens), swelling of a section of the eye 
(uvea), eczema of the eyelids, halo vision, decreased eye sensation, pigmentation inside the eye, 
dilatated pupils, change in eyelash colour, change in the texture of the eyelashes, abnormal field of 
vision. 
General side effects 
Ear and labyrinth disorders: dizziness with spinning sensation, ringing in the ears. 
Heart and circulation: slow heart rate, palpitations, oedema (fluid build-up), changes in heartbeat 
rhythm or speed, congestive heart failure (heart disease with shortness of breath and swelling of the 
feet and legs due to fluid build-up), a type of heart rhythm disorder, heart attack, low blood pressure, 
Raynaud’s phenomenon, cold hands and feet, reduced blood supply to the brain. 
Respiratory: constriction of the airways in the lungs (predominantly in patients with pre-existing 
disease), runny or stuffy nose, sneezing (due to allergy), difficulty breathing, nose bleed, nasal 
dryness. 
Nervous system and general disorders: difficulty sleeping (insomnia), nightmares, memory loss, 
hallucinations, loss of strength and energy, anxiety (excessive emotional distress). 
Gastrointestinal: taste disturbances, nausea, indigestion, diarrhoea, dry mouth, abdominal pain, 
vomiting and constipation. 
Allergy: increased allergic symptoms, generalised allergic reactions including swelling beneath the 
skin that can occur in areas such as the face and limbs and can obstruct the airway. which may cause 
difficulty swallowing or breathing, localised and generalised rash, itchiness, severe sudden 
life-threatening allergic reaction. 
Skin: skin rash with white silvery coloured appearance (psoriasiform rash) or worsening of psoriasis, 
peeling skin, abnormal hair texture, inflammation of the skin with itchy rash and redness, hair colour 
change, loss of eyelashes, itching, abnormal hair growth, skin redness. 
Muscular: increases in signs and symptoms of myasthenia gravis (muscle disorder), unusual 
sensations like pins and needles, muscle weakness/tiredness, muscle pain not caused by exercise, joint 
pain. 
Renal and urinary disorders: difficulty and pain when passing urine, involuntary leakage of urine,  
Reproduction: sexual dysfunction, decreased libido. 
Metabolism: low blood sugar levels, increase in prostate cancer marker. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store DuoTrav 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the bottle label and carton after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 30°C. 
You must throw away the bottle 4 weeks after you first opened it to prevent the risk of infections. 
Each time you start a new bottle write down the date you open it in the spaces on the bottle label and 
carton. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What DuoTrav contains 
- 
- 
The active substances are travoprost and timolol. Each mL of solution contains 40 micrograms 
of travoprost and 5 mg of timolol (as timolol maleate). 
The other ingredients are Polyquaternium-1, mannitol (E421), propylene glycol (E1520), 
polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil 40, boric acid, sodium chloride, sodium hydroxide or 
hydrochloric acid (to adjust pH), purified water. 
Tiny amounts of sodium hydroxide or hydrochloric acid are added to keep acidity levels (pH 
levels) normal. 
What DuoTrav looks like and contents of the pack 
DuoTrav is a liquid (a clear, colourless solution) supplied in a 2.5 mL plastic bottle with a screw cap. 
Each bottle is packed in an overwrap. 
Packs of 1, 3 or 6 bottles. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturer 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
S.A. Alcon-Couvreur N.V. 
Rijksweg 14 
B-2870 Puurs 
Belgium 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
Siegfried El Masnou, S.A. 
Camil Fabra 58 
El Masnou 
08320 Barcelona 
Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
България 
Novartis Bulgaria EOOD 
Тел.: +359 2 489 98 28 
Česká republika 
Novartis s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 775 111 
Danmark 
Novartis Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 39 16 84 00 
Deutschland 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 911 273 0 
Eesti 
SIA Novartis Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 66 30 810 
Ελλάδα 
Novartis (Hellas) A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 281 17 12 
Lietuva 
SIA Novartis Baltics Lietuvos filialas 
Tel: +370 5 269 16 50 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
Magyarország 
Novartis Hungária Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 457 65 00 
Malta 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +356 2122 2872 
Nederland 
Novartis Pharma B.V. 
Tel: +31 88 04 52 111 
Norge 
Novartis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 23 05 20 00 
Österreich 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 86 6570 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
España 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 306 42 00 
Polska 
Novartis Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 375 4888 
France 
Novartis Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 1 55 47 66 00 
Hrvatska 
Novartis Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel. +385 1 6274 220 
Ireland 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 260 12 55 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 96 54 1 
Κύπρος 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Τηλ: +357 22 690 690 
Latvija 
SIA Novartis Baltics 
Tel: +371 67 887 070 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Portugal 
Novartis Farma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A. 
Tel: +351 21 000 8600 
România 
Novartis Pharma Services Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 21 31299 01 
Slovenija 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc.  
Tel: +386 1 300 75 50 
Slovenská republika 
Novartis Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: + 421 2 5542 5439 
Suomi/Finland 
Novartis Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 6133 200 
Sverige 
Novartis Sverige AB 
Tel: +46 8 732 32 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +44 1276 698370 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
