SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Glaucoma is a group of eye disorders traditionally characterized by progressive damage to the eye, at 
least partly due to elevated intraocular pressure (IOP). It is the leading cause of irreversible blindness 
in the world and the second leading cause of vision loss after cataract, which is reversible surgically. 
Primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) is the most common form of glaucoma, accounting for about 
60 to 70% of all glaucomas. Both eyes are generally affected, but not necessarily equally. Risk factors 
for (POAG) are elevated intraocular pressure, advanced age, black race, and family history. 
Eyes with POAG develop progressive peripheral visual field loss followed by central field loss, in a 
characteristic pattern, usually but not always in the presence of elevated IOP (in at least 1/6 of patients 
with glaucoma, the IOP is in the normal range). There are no anatomic factors that identify eyes that 
are at risk. There are no symptoms; the disease must be screened for and confirmed on comprehensive 
ophthalmic examination. Visual field loss cannot be recovered once it has occurred. 
Most patients with glaucoma require only medication to control the eye pressure. Sometimes, several 
medications  that  complement  each  other  are  necessary  to  reduce  the  pressure  adequately.  If  these 
treatments fail or are thought likely to fail, laser or filtration surgery are offered. 
Topical  medications  work  either  by  increasing  aqueous  outflow  (alpha  adrenergic  agonists,  miotics, 
epinephrine  compounds,  and  prostaglandins)  or  by  decreasing  aqueous  production  (beta  adrenergic 
blockers  and  carbonic  anhydrase  inhibitors).  Systemic  carbonic  anhydrase  inhibitors  also  decrease 
aqueous production.  
The  treatment  regimen  for  a  patient  often  begins  with  a  topical  β-blocker,  except  in  patients  with 
cardiac or pulmonary contraindications. These agents effectively lower IOP, have a long duration of 
action, which allows QD or BID dosing, and are associated with few ocular side effects. Major side 
effects are similar to those associated with systemic β-blocker therapy, including worsening of heart 
failure, bradycardia, heart block, and increased airways resistance.  
The topical prostaglandins are increasingly chosen as initial therapy in POAG. These prostaglandin-
like drugs lower intraocular pressure by increasing the uveoscleral outflow of aqueous humor. They 
are very effective in reducing the eye pressure and have the advantage of requiring only once a day 
administration. Of some concern is the ability of these agents to cause permanent iris color changes, 
conjunctival hyperemia and lash pigmentation.  
The rationale for the development of a topical ocular product that combines a prostaglandin analogue 
(travoprost) and a β-blocker (timolol) in a single formulation was to provide a product with: 
− IOP-lowering efficacy that is greater than either component product alone, 
− IOP-lowering efficacy that is similar to the concomitant administration of the component products, 
and 
− convenience of once-daily dosing, thereby promoting better compliance. 
Travoprost 40 µg/ml/timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution (travoprost/timolol Eye Drops) is indicated 
for  the:  decrease  of  intraocular  pressure  (IOP)  in  patients  with  open-angle  glaucoma  or  ocular 
hypertension who are insufficiently responsive to topical beta-blockers or prostaglandin analogues. 
The  active  components  of  travoprost/timolol  Eye  Drops,  travoprost  and  timolol  maleate,  have  each 
been  approved  as  first  line  therapeutic  agents  for  the  reduction  of  elevated  intraocular  pressure  in 
patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension in the EU. Further, the use of travoprost as 
adjunctive therapy to timolol in the treatment of open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension has been 
granted during the Marketing Authorisation Applicant for Travatan, based on the demonstration of the 
additional  benefit obtained when adding travoprost to patients with insufficient IOP reduction while 
on timolol.  
©EMEA 2006 
   1/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
DuoTrav  is  formulated  as  sterile,  preserved  multidose  eye  drops  containing  40  microgram/ml  of 
travoprost and 5 mg/ml of timolol (as maleate) as active substance.  
The  other  ingredients  include  benzalkonium  chloride,  mannitol,  trometamol,  polyoxyethylene 
hydrogenated castor oil 40 (HCO-40), boric acid, disodium edetate, hydrochloric acid (to adjust pH), 
and purified water. 
DuoTrav is packed in a syndiotactic polypropylene bottle with a polypropylene dispensing plug and 
a screw cap. Each bottle is placed in a foil overwrap. 
Drug Substance  
Travoprost 
Travoprost is a prostaglandin analogue isopropyl ester prodrug of the (+)-enantiomer of fluprostenol 
and  it  is  the  active  substance  of  a  centrally  authorised  medicinal  product  i.e.  Travatan 
(EU/1/01/199/001-2).  
Detailed information on quality/control of materials used in the synthesis, as well as on the synthesis 
itself, has been provided by the way of an active substance master file. No change has been made to 
the currently registered quality documentation: the active substance master file provided includes the 
changes  implemented  to  the  quality  documentation  of  the  already  authorised  product  through  type  I 
variations  (EMEA/H/C/  390/I/01-03-04-08)  as  well  as  some  information  specific  to  the  DuoTrav 
application (additional impurity data and batch analysis data for travoprost used in the development of 
DuoTrav). 
Travoprost is a clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to light yellow oil, which is practically insoluble 
in  water.  It  is  hygroscopic  under  high  humidity  conditions,  susceptible  to  degradation  by  heat  and 
humidity, and it is light sensitive.  
•  Specification 
The active substance specification include test for appearance, identity (IR and HPLC), assay (HPLC), 
optical rotation, impurities (HPLC), residual solvents (GC) and water content. 
Batch analysis data provided for 6 recent batches confirm satisfactory compliance and uniformity with 
the proposed specification. 
•  Stability of the Product 
The re-test period proposed is acceptable according to the stability data submitted and it is identical to 
the current approved for Travatan. 
Timolol (as maleate) 
Timolol is decribed in the European Pharmacopoeia. It is a white or almost white, crystalline powder 
or colourless crystals, soluble in water and in alcohol.  
A  certificate  of  suitability  of  the  Monograph  of  the  European  Pharmacopoeia  monograph  (CEP), 
which  includes  additional  tests  and  specifications  for  impurities  and  residual  solvents  has  been 
presented by the manufacturer together with a statement certifying that the manufacturing process has 
not  been  modified  since  granting  of  the  CEP  by  the  European  Directorate  for  Quality  of  Medicines 
(EDQM). 
©EMEA 2006 
2/33 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With regards to related substances, the active is controlled using the TLC test described in the PhEur 
monograph as well as using a validated HPLC method.  
Batch  analysis  data  provided  demonstrate  compliance  with  the  PhEur  Monograph,  the  additional 
specifications of the CEP and the additional impurity limits. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Under  normal  conditions  (25°C±2°C/60%±5%  RH  –  intended  packaging)  and  under  accelerated 
conditions  (40°C±2°C  /75%±5%  RH  -  intended  packaging),  respectively  up  to  3-year  stability  data 
and 6-month stability data have been provided. The parameter tested included appearance, assay and 
impurities. 
The  proposed  retest  period  is  supported  by  the  presented  data  when  timolol  maleate  is  stored  in  a 
polyethylene bag placed in an aluminium laminated bag. 
Drug Product  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The objective of the development was to develop a safe, efficacious, stable, comfortable and preserved 
eye  drop  formulation.  It  has  been  based  on  already  authorised  EU  formulations  containing  the 
individual actives and the same concentration of travoprost and timolol maleate is used.  
The supply of travoprost as oil implied the necessity of a surfactant (polyoxyl hydrogenated castor oil 
40) in the formulation as a solubilising agent. 
The excipients selection has been based on those used in the Travatan formulation: trometamol/boric 
acid/mannitol  as  a  buffer  system,  mannitol  as  a  tonicity  agent,  benzalkonium  chloride/boric 
acid/disodium edetate as a preservative system, trometamol/hydrochloric acid as pH adjuster.  
The  preservative  system  showed  satisfactory  antimicrobial  efficacy,  which  has  been  demonstrated 
according to Ph Eur. 
All the excipients are Ph Eur quality except polyoxyl hydrogenated castor oil 40 (Polyoxyl HCO 40), 
which is satisfactorily controlled according to a different standard. Regarding the TSE risk, DuoTrav 
does not include any component of ruminant origin. 
The  primary  packaging  consists  of  an  opaque  white  oval  bottle  made  of  syndiotactic  polypropylene 
with a natural polypropylene dispensing plug and a white polypropylene cap. The bottle is placed in a 
foil over-wrap. The packaging materials meet the PhEur requirements and they are the same as those 
approved  for  Travatan  with  exception  of  a  colorant  i.e.  titanium  dioxide  added  to  the  bottle.  The 
potential extractables and leachables arising from the packaging components including the label and 
adhesive  have  been  well  characterised  and  satisfactory  limits  have  been  included  in  the  finished 
product specification. 
The manufacturing process is based on the one approved for Travatan with the exception of timolol 
maleate being added with the other water soluble ingredients. The choice of sterilisation by filtration is 
justified  because  terminal  sterilisation  led  to  deformation  of  the  packaging  components  and  to 
unacceptable degradation of travoprost. 
The formulation used in clinical trials is the same as the one intended for marketing. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process involves the following operations: dissolution of water soluble ingredients, 
preparation and addition of travoprost stock solution, sterile filtration and aseptic filling. 
©EMEA 2006 
3/33 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acceptable specification and retest period has been defined for travoprost stock solution intermediate 
based  on  stability  data.  The  maximum  holding  time  for  the  sterile  solution  before  filling  has  been 
adequately justified. 
Satisfactory validation data have been provided. All batches comply with the release specification and 
the results support the reproducibility of the manufacturing process. 
•  Product Specification 
The product specification includes tests for travoprost identity (HPLC and TLC), travoprost assay and 
degradation  products,  timolol  identity  (HPLC  and  TLC),  timolol  assay  and  degradation  products, 
unrelated  impurities,  benzalkonium  chloride  identity  and  assay,  boric  acid  identity  and  assay, 
disodium  edetate  identity,  and  assay,  pH,  osmolality,  appearance,  colour,  clarity  (PhEur),  particles, 
sterility and fill volume. 
Batch analysis data provided for production batches meet the specification at the time of release and 
confirm the robustness and reproducibility of the manufacturing process. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability data have been provided for three primary stability batches. The parameters tested included 
travoprost  assay  and  degradation  products,  timolol  assay  and  degradation  products,  unrelated 
impurities,  benzalkonium  chloride  assay,  boric  acid  assay,  disodium  edetate  assay,  pH,  osmolality 
appearance,  colour  (PhEur),  particles,  precipitate,  weight  change,  package  condition,  sterility  and 
preservative effectiveness. 
Under  accelerated  conditions  (40°C/25%  RH  –  commercial  packaging)  and  long-term  conditions 
(25°C/40% RH - commercial packaging) respectively 6-month and 30-month data have been provided.  
No  significant  changes have been observed and the results presented support the proposed shelf-life 
in-use and storage conditions defined in the Summary of product characteristics (SPC). 
An in-use stability study on two production batches has been performed and support the proposed 
shelf-life defined in the SPC.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  active  substances  and  finished  product 
have  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of unresolved quality issues without impact on 
the clinical efficacy or safety of the product, therefore the applicant made a commitment to resolve 
these as post-opinion follow-up measures 
3. 
  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Pharmacology 
The applicant has submitted a number of in vitro and in vivo studies concerning travoprost and timolol 
nonclinical pharmacology.  
•  Primary & secondary pharmacodynamics  
 F-prostaglandin agonists increase aqueous humor outflow through the uveoscleral pathway in animal 
models and man. For in vitro test systems, 0.1 nM to 100 µM of AL-5848, the free acid of travoprost, 
was used because of the likely lack of esterase in the test systems to hydrolyze the parent compound 
4/33 
©EMEA 2006 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
used. Prostanoid receptor binding affinity tests with the free acid of travoprost AL-5848, showed that 
it  is  a  selective  and  full  agonist  at  the  FP  prostanoid  receptor.  AL-5848  exhibited  no  significant 
receptor activity for a battery of 32 physiologically relevant receptors at concentrations of up to 100 
µM. In vivo, travoprost significantly reduced IOP in lasered monkey. The IOP response was sustained 
through 24 hours and returned to baseline by 48 hours after the last once daily instillation. Travoprost 
also lowered IOP in normotensive guinea pig eyes.  
Timolol  is  a  well-known  nonselective  beta-1  and  beta-2  adrenergic  receptor  antagonist  that  has  been 
utilized  clinically  for  many  years  for  the  reduction  of  elevated  IOP  in  patients  with  open-angle 
glaucoma  and  ocular  hypertension.  The  reduction  in  IOP  is  believed  to  be  produced  by  decreased 
aqueous  humor  formation  following  blockade  of  the  beta  adrenoceptors  on  the  non-pigmented 
epithelial  cells  of  the  ciliary  body  and  thereby  inhibition  of  the  increased  synthesis  of  cyclic  AMP. 
Beta-adrenoceptors  and  membrane  bound  adenylate  cyclase  have  been  shown  to  be  present  in  iris 
ciliary  body  and  ciliary  epithelium  in  several  species.  Timolol  effectively  reduced  IOP  and  aqueous 
humor  formation  in  rabbits,  cats  and  monkeys.  Timolol  did  not  inhibit  renin  activity  or  platelet 
aggregation (up to 1 mg/ml) and showed no fibrinolytic action (up to 1 mg/ml). 
Travoprost increased optic nerve head blood flow, which is considered to be a possible component in 
the etiology of glaucoma, and produced no significant changes in the the electroretinogram (ERG) of 
Dutch-belted rabbits. Travoprost is approximately 2 times more potent than PGF2α and 10 times more 
potent than latanoprost for producing miosis in cats however miosis has not been observed in humans 
dosed with any of the marketed prostaglandin analogues for glaucoma.  
Although no nonclinical studies comparing the combination and the individual active ingredients were 
performed  to  investigate  the  potential  pharmacodynamic  interactions,  data  from  clinical  studies 
showed  that  the  IOP-lowering  activity  of  the  combination  could  be  the  result  of  an  additive,  rather 
than  a  synergistic,  effect,  as  a  result  of  the  addition  of  the  two  distinct  mechanisms  of  action. 
Furthermore,  nonclinical  and  clinical  studies  performed  with  the  combination  do  not  suggest  a 
potentiating effect on adverse effects. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Travoprost  produced  no  significant  effects  on  the  central  nervous,  renal  or  respiratory  system. 
Furthermore,  travosprost  showed  no  significant  effects  on  cardiac  repolarisation.  At  high  doses, 
significant effects on cardiac contractility, blood pressure and left ventricular pressure were observed 
in  dogs.  However,  these  effects  were  observed  at  plasma  concentrations  higher  than  those  achieved 
clinically  at  IOP-lowering  doses,  with  a  wide  safety  margin.  Smooth  muscles  of  the  gastrointestinal 
(GI)  tract  are  contracted  by  prostaglandin  F2α;  travoprost  increases  gastrointestinal  propulsion  in  a 
dose-dependent  manner  in  mice,  consistent  with  the  known  agonist  activity  of  AL-5848  on  FP 
prostanoid  receptors.  GI  effects  are  not  expected  at  clinically  relevant  doses.  Prostaglandins  are 
recognized  effectors  of  uterine  function.  AL-5848  induced  concentration-dependent  contractions  in 
isolated  rat  uterine  strips,  consistent  with  the  known  pharmacology  of  PGF2α,  with  at  least  a  6-fold 
safety margin in a worst-case approach. 
As  with  any  beta-adrenergic  receptor  blocking  agent,  adverse  respiratory  and  cardiac  reactions  may 
occur with timolol. Timolol reduces the positive inotropic and chronotropic responses of myocardial 
tissue  and  may  antagonize  beta-adrenoceptors  in  the  bronchi  and  bronchioles.  Furthermore,  central 
nervous system related symptoms could occur; appearing when timolol is discontinued. 
The  potential  interaction  of  the  active  ingredients  travoprost  and  timolol  was  discussed  further. 
Considering  that  travoprost  and  timolol  are  two  distinct  pharmacological  agents,  which  act  by 
different  mechanisms  of  action  and  the  lack  of  interaction  reports  in  the  literature,  support  the  view 
that the two agents do not impact significantly on the pharmacodynamics of one another. Low plasma 
levels  and  rapid  removal  of  the  free  acid  of  travoprost  argues  against  a  significant  pharmacological 
interaction  occurring  between  these  two  mechanistically  distinct  agents.  Furthermore,  no  signs  of 
ocular  or  systemic  toxicity  were  observed  in  toxicology  studies  conducted  in  rabbits  and  monkeys 
after chronic administration. In conclusion, these data suggest that the individual agents dosed at the 
clinical concentrations and intended regimen do not interact pharmacologically. 
©EMEA 2006 
5/33 
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Travoprost  is  unlikely  to  interact  adversely  with  other  glaucoma  agents  or  with  other  receptor-
mediated  pharmacologic  agents.  Drug  interactions  of  timolol  are  typical  of  nonselective  beta 
adrenergic antagonists and are well defined in the scientific literature. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Following  subcutaneous  administration,  maximal  plasma  concentrations  and  exposure  to  AL-5848 
increased in a dose-proportional manner. Plasma concentrations of AL-5848 declined rapidly and in a 
biphasic  manner  following  intravenous  administration.  Timolol  is  rapidly  absorbed  following  single 
topical ocular doses reaching maximum concentrations in aqueous humor and plasma 30 minutes after 
dosing.  
In vitro binding of AL-5848 to human, rat and monkey plasma proteins is ≈80%. Tissue distribution 
studies  of  travoprost  in  rats  showed  highest  concentrations  in  kidney,  liver,  lung  and  plasma. 
Radioactivity  concentrations  decreased  over  the  first  hours,  but  were  still  detectable  in  most  tissue 
through 72 hours after multiple dose regimen. In pregnant rats, radioactivity was measured in amniotic 
fluid  and  fetal  tissues  with  highest  fetal  tissue  concentrations  in  liver  and  lung.    Timolol  distributes 
extensively  in  rat  tissues  with  highest  levels  in  liver,  small  intestine,  kidney  and  lung,  and  lower 
concentrations in plasma, heart, skeletal muscle and stomach. Following topical ocular administration 
of travoprost 40 µg/ml/timolol 5 mg/ml eye drops solution, ocular uptake and low systemic exposure 
in plasma for both AL-5848 and timolol from the combination were observed. Comparison of the data 
from  individual  and  concomitant  administration  showed  similar  pharmacokinetics,  but  some 
differences were apparent for timolol.  
In vivo and in vitro, travoprost is rapidly de-esterified to AL-5848 by plasma esterases. AL-5848, the 
active  acid  metabolite  of  travoprost,  is  extensively  metabolized  by  the  same  well-established 
enzymatic pathways involved in the metabolism of endogenous prostaglandin-F2α. The applicant has 
established the metabolic profiles and identified the majority of metabolites in rats and monkeys. The 
metabolism of timolol has been well characterized in rats, mice, and humans in published literature. 
These studies show that the primary biotransformation products of timolol are identical in rats, mice 
and humans. 
In  rats,  travoprost  is  rapidly  excreted,  with  34%  and  61%  being  recovered  in  urine  and  faeces, 
respectively. Travoprost undergoes extensive biliary excretion and is excreted in the milk of lactating 
rats.  The  pattern  of  excretion  of  timolol  is  similar  in  rats  and  dogs,  with  the  majority  of  the  dose 
excreted  in  urine  (58  and  68%  respectively)  and  the  remainder  recovered  in  urine  (26  and  19% 
respectively). 
Concomitant topical ocular administration of travoprost and timolol to rabbits showed no significant 
changes in pharmacokinetics of AL-5848 compared with those seen for the individual drugs. Exposure 
to timolol was significantly reduced in the combination compared to that of the individual drug. The 
applicant acknowledges the trend towards lower timolol concentrations in ocular tissues with the use 
of the travoprost/timolol combination product compared to the timolol active ingredient and attributes 
these differences to the variability of the data.  
Potential pharmacokinetic interactions between active ingredients are unlikely, since travosprost and 
timolol  undergo  different  metabolic  pathways  and  also  taking  into  account  the  low  systemic  levels 
achieved following topical ocular administration. 
Toxicology 
Travoprost  and  timolol  have  been  evaluated  in  a  variety  of  toxicology  studies  in  laboratory  animals 
and in vitro test systems.  
•  Single dose toxicity 
©EMEA 2006 
6/33 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The oral LD50 for timolol maleate is 1028 mg/kg in rats and 1137 mg/kg in mice, comparable to that 
of other beta-adrenergic receptor antagonists.  
An ocular irritation test was conducted with the combination travoprost/timolol in rabbits. This single-
dose toxicity study in rabbits was an exploratory screening study to assess ocular safety of 40 µg/ml 
travoprost / 5 mg/ml timolol (FID 102872 marketed formulation) in an exaggerated dosing paradigm. 
Three  rabbits  were  assigned  to  the  test  group  and  one  eye  of  each  animal  selected  for  use.  The 
formulation was administered as two drops to the right eye every 30 minutes for a total of 10 doses. 
Immediately following the first and last dose, a comfort evaluation was performed. One hour after the 
last dose, the test eye was examined biomicroscopically. 
Findings consisted of moderate conjunctival congestion (score=2) on a 0-3 point scale in all animals 
and a single animal was observed to have minimal discharge (score=1) on a 0-3 point scale. Two out 
of  three  animals  had  minimal  discomfort  (score=1)  on  a  0-4  point  scale  after  the  first  dose  and  3/3 
animals had minimal discomfort after the last dose.  
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeat-dose topical ocular studies conducted with travoprost in rabbits (6 months, up to 0.01%) and 
cynomolgus monkeys (1 year, up to 0.012%) showed no signs of ocular irritation or systemic toxicity. 
Plasma  Cmax,  local  and  systemic  exposure  achieved  in  these  animal  species  with  regard  to  the  dose 
regimen  was  higher  than  those  in  man.  There  was  an  increase  in  iris  pigmentation  and  a  widened 
palpebral fissure in the 1-year monkey study, as has been noted in primates with other prostanoids. In 
the  rat,  subcutaneous  administration  of  30  and  100  µg/kg  for  6  months  showed  hyperostosis  and 
fibrosis  of  bones  (femur  and  sternum).  Bone  changes  were  considered  responsible  for  the 
extramedullary  hematopoiesis  in  the  liver  and  spleen,  and  decreases  in  red  blood  cell  parameters 
observed.  This  effect  is  not  observed  in  mice,  rabbits  or  monkeys,  and  was  apparent  at  doses  >200 
times those proposed in clinical practice. 
Timolol  gelable  drops  (up  to  1%)  was  administered  by  the  topical  ocular  route  to  rabbits  (1  and  3 
months)  and  cynomolgus  monkeys  (1  year).  There  were  no  signs  of  ocular  toxicity  observed  in  the 
rabbit studies and no signs of ocular or systemic toxicity observed in the monkeys. A review of the 
ocular  studies  conducted  with  timolol  in  rabbits  and  dogs  showed  no  treatment-related  observations 
except  some  cardiovascular  changes  in  the  dog.  Since  ocular  administration  achieves  low  systemic 
exposure,  there  are  acceptable  margins  of  safety.  Two  repeat-dose  topical  ocular  studies  were 
conducted in rabbits and one was conducted in monkeys with the travoprost/timolol combination. No 
signs of ocular irritation or ocular/systemic toxicity at doses of up to 200 µg/ml travoprost / 5 mg/ml 
timolol were observed in rabbits.  Increased iris/ciliary body pigmentation along with widening of the 
palpebral  fissure  was  observed  in  monkeys,  consistent  with those findings previously observed with 
travoprost.  
Toxicokinetic  studies  were  performed  following  topical  ocular  administration  of  travoprost/timolol 
combination in rabbits and monkeys. AL-5848 exposure in animals dosed with the combination test 
articles showed increasing exposure with increasing travoprost concentration. There was no significant 
accumulation.  The  toxicokinetic  data  show  an  increase  of  AL-5848  plasma  concentrations  when 
administered together with timolol in rabbits (3 and 9 months studies). This observation could not be 
confirmed  in  monkeys,  as  the  toxicokinetic  study  was  perfomed  only  with  the  combination 
travoprost/timolol. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Travoprost  has  no  significant  potential  for  genotoxicity.  Timolol  has  been  shown  to  have  low 
genotoxic potential in a series of in vitro and in vivo studies.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
Two-year carcinogenicity studies were conducted in the mouse and the rat with travoprost and timolol. 
There  was  no  significant  risk  of  carcinogenic  potential  observed  with  exposure  to  travoprost  or 
timolol. 
©EMEA 2006 
7/33 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Fertility and reproductive performance were not affected by travoprost at doses up to 10 µg/kg/day. 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity studies in rats and mice demonstrated the uterine effects of 
travoprost,  as  it  is  expected  from  its  pharmacology,  characterised  by  early  resorptions,  post-
implantation loss and reduced foetal weight. The effects were more pronounced in the mouse than in 
the  rat,  the  no  observed  effect  level  (NOEL)  for  embryo-fetal  toxicity  being  0.3  and  3  µg/kg/day, 
respectively.  
The use of travoprost in women who are or may become pregnant is contraindicated, as is reflected in 
the SPC.  
In  reproduction  and  fertility  studies  in  rats  with  timolol,  there  were  no  adverse  effects  on  male  or 
female  fertility  at  doses  up  to  21,000  times  the  systemic  exposure  following  the  maximum 
recommended human ophthalmic dose.  
•  Local tolerance  
Travosprost and timolol showed no evidence of sensitization potential. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
The  caractogenic  potential  of  travoprost/timolol  combination  was  also  investigated  by  the  applicant. 
Studies  conducted  in  monkeys  and  rabbits  with  travoprost,  timolol  and  the  travoprost/timolol 
combination  showed  no  abnormal  lenticular  findings  and  therefore  there  appears  to  be  no  concern 
regarding  cataract  formation.  These  results  are  consistent  with  observations  from  clinical  trials  in 
humans,  as  well  as  PSUR  data  for  both  Travatan  and  timolol,  which  revealed  no  relation  to  the 
development of cataracts. 
The inmunotoxicity of travoprost and timolol was assessed as a part of the chronic toxicology studies; 
in  these  studies,  travoprost  and  timolol  did  not  show  evidence  of  any  immunotoxic  potential. 
Regarding  the  fixed  combination,  results  from  three  topical  ocular  chronic  studies  in  rabbits  and 
monkeys did not provide evidence of immunotoxicity. 
In relation to the allergenic potential, studies conducted with travoprost and timolol in guinea pig were 
negative for induction of allergenicity. For the combination, chronic topical ocular studies in rabbits 
and monkeys did not show any sign of allergenic potential. 
The impurities AL-12419 (trans isomer of travoprost) and Al- 5848 are classified as qualified on the 
basis of the following toxicological data: 
-  Animals  have  been  exposed  to  the  impurity  AL-12419  in  various  toxicology  studies  up  to>100 
times the potential patient exposure 
-  The  impurity  AL-5848  is  at  the  same  time  the  pharmacologically  active  free  acid  of  travoprost, 
and therefore animals have been extensively exposed to AL-5848.  
Although  the  specified  and  unspecified  unrelated  impurities  (derived  from  package  material  or 
label/adhesive) are observed in very low concentrations (each max. 1.3 ppm, total max. 6.2 ppm) the 
toxicological relevance of these impurities has been discussed. The toxicological profile of impurities 
from package and label was tested in a number of studies. All of them were negative for cytotoxicity, 
incutaneous reactivity, ocular irritation or toxicity. Furthermore, there is no evidence in the literature 
concerning  the  potential  mutagenicity  of  the  timolol  acrylate  reaction  product.  It  is  found  at  levels 
below 1% (ICH limit) and therefore there is no concern about toxicity.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The physico-chemical properties of travosprost and timolol and the predicted concentrations likely to 
enter the environment do not anticipate an environmental impact. 
4. 
  Clinical aspects 
©EMEA 2006 
8/33 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics (PK) 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  travoprost  has  not  been  studied  after  systemic  administration.  After  oral 
administration timolol is rapidly and completely absorbed (~90%). Detectable plasma concentrations 
of  timolol  are  observed  within  one-half  hour  and  peak  concentrations  occur  1  to  2  hours  post-dose. 
The  apparent  elimination  t1/2  of  timolol  in  plasma  is  approximately  4  hours  and  this  is  essentially 
unchanged in patients with moderate renal insufficiency. Timolol is partially metabolized by the liver; 
timolol  and  its  metabolites  are  excreted  by  the  kidney  in  animals.  Plasma  concentrations  following 
oral administration are about half those seen after intravenous administration indicating approximately 
50% first-pass metabolism. 
The  clinical  pharmacology  programme  for  travoprost/timolol  eye  drops,  solution,  consists  of  2  new 
clinical  pharmacokinetics  studies  (Study  C-02-35  and  Study  C-98-62),  aimed  to  determine  plasma 
concentrations  of  AL-5848  (active  metabolite  of  Travatan)  and  timolol,  when  the  combination  of 
travoprost/timolol  Eye  Drops  was  administered,  compared  to  when  Travatan  and  timolol  5  mg/ml 
were  administered  separately;  and  to  assess  the  potential  for  a  drug-drug  interaction  between 
travoprost and timolol.  
Study  C-98-62  was  conducted  to  compare  the  plasma  timolol  profiles  following  topical  ocular 
administration of TIMOPTIC 5 mg/ml and 2 extended-release timolol formulations (TIMOPTIC-XE 
and TIMOLOL GFS). The results from the TIMOPTIC 5 mg/ml group serve as comparison with the 
timolol plasma pharmacokinetic data from Study C-02-35.  
The pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic profile of this fixed dose combination is also supported by the 
results of the studies performed during the clinical development programme of Travatan and by data 
from the literature for timolol, which are briefly presented below.  
•  Absorption  
Travoprost  is  well  absorbed  through  the  cornea  and  is  rapidly  hydrolyzed  via  esterases  to  the 
pharmacologically active acid metabolite AL-5848.  
Timolol  is  well  absorbed  through  the  cornea  and  rapidly  distributes  into  ocular  tissues  and  the 
systemic circulation following topical ocular administration in animals. 
•  Distribution 
The  active  metabolite,  AL-5848,  is  present  at  low  concentrations  in  the  systemic  circulation.  Data 
from 5 multiple-dose pharmacokinetic studies of travoprost ophthalmic solutions (total 122 subjects) 
have  shown  that  plasma  concentrations  of  AL-5848  are  below  10  pg/ml  (the  assay  limit  of 
quantitation,  LOQ)  in  two-thirds  of  the  subjects.  In  those  individuals  with  quantifiable  plasma 
concentrations (N = 38), the mean plasma Cmax was 18 ± 7 pg/ml and was reached within 30 minutes. 
There  were  no  apparent  differences  in  plasma  concentrations  between  Days  1  and  7,  indicating  that 
steady-state pharmacokinetic was reached early and that there was no accumulation. AL-5848 can be 
measured in human plasma only during the first hours after topical ocular administration. Thereafter, 
plasma levels declined rapidly to below the 10 pg/ml assay quantitation limit at 1 hour post-dose.  
Timolol can be measured in human aqueous humor and plasma for up to 12 hours after topical ocular 
administration  of  timolol  5  mg/ml.  Timolol  is  partially  metabolized  by  the  liver.  Timolol 
biotransformation pathways include oxidation and hydrolytic cleavage of the morpholine ring, as well 
as oxidation and cleavage of the oxypropanolamine side chain.  
©EMEA 2006 
9/33 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Elimination 
Due to the low plasma concentrations and rapid elimination following topical dosing, the elimination 
half-life of AL-5848 in man could not be determined. Metabolism is the major route of elimination of 
both travoprost and AL-5848. In humans, less than 2% of the dose was recovered in the urine as AL-
5848 following topical ocular administration of travoprost.  
The  apparent  terminal  elimination  t1/2  of  timolol  in  plasma  was  approximately  4  hours  after  topical 
ocular administration of travoprost/timolol Eye Drops or timolol 5 mg/ml. Timolol and its metabolites 
are primarily excreted in the urine.  
The  applicant  was  asked  to  provide  further  data  to  demonstrate  whether  the  excretion  of 
travoprost/timolol is different to that seen for each component given separately. The applicant argued 
that  following  topical  ocular  administration  of  travoprost/timolol  Eye  Drops,  Solution  (study  C-02-
35), the plasma profiles for both the travoprost free acid (AL-5848) and timolol were similar to those 
observed  for  each  topical  agent  when  administered  alone.  Since  the  systemic  exposure  for  both 
compounds  was  unchanged  when  given  together,  these  findings  support  the  conclusion  that  the 
elimination  (excretion)  pathways  of both AL-5848 and timolol are not altered when administered in 
fixed combination. The answer was considered to be acceptable by the CHMP. 
•  Special populations 
No  specific  studies  with  the  fixed  dose  combination  have  been  performed.  Data  from  the  studies 
performed with travoprost have been provided. No clinically relevant changes in laboratory data were 
observed in patients with impaired (mild to severe) hepatic or renal function. No dosage adjustment is 
necessary in patients with hepatic or renal impairment based on travoprost (Travatan) data. 
No specific pharmacokinetic studies have been performed in patients under 18 years of age. Travatan 
and  timolol  Eye  Drops  are  not  recommended  for  use  in  paediatric  patients.  Travoprost/timolol  Eye 
Drops  is  not  recommended  in  patients  below  the  age  of  18  years  and  is  stated  in  section  4.2  of  the 
SPC. 
The  applicant  was  also  asked  to  give  further  information  on  other  subpopulations  such  as  different 
ethnic groups (different iris colour), patients with aphakia and pseudophakia etc. Data provided by the 
applicant  do  not  suggest  any  clinically  relevant  difference  in  the  efficacy  of  this  fixed  dose 
combination  based  on  age,  race,  iris  colour  and  diagnosis.  Only  a  consistent,  although  minor, 
difference  in  mean  IOP  reduction  based  on  gender  has  been  noted,  with  males  showing  a  slightly 
higher mean IOP reduction than that for females when administering travoprost plus timolol, both as a 
fixed  or  concomitantly  used  combination.  This  information  was  not  considered  to  add  relevant 
information for prescribers and therefore, it was not considered necessary to address this issue in the 
SPC. 
With  regard  to  the  information  provided  in  aphakic  and  pseudoaphakic  patients,  the  applicant 
considers that the statement proposed for Section 4.4, in accordance to that stated in the SPC approved 
for Travatan, is appropriate since no definite causality, or lack of causality, for cystoid macular edema 
(CME)  has  been  demonstrated  for  prostaglandin  analogues  in  pseudophakic  or  aphakic  eyes.  The 
applicant’s proposal was considered to be acceptable by the CHMP. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No  studies  evaluating  drug-drug  interactions  have  been  performed.  Since  travoprost  undergoes  a 
biotransformation  pathway  similar  to  endogenous  prostaglandin-F2α,  and  since  systemic  levels  of 
active metabolite following topical ocular administration are negligible, interactions with concomitant 
medications  in  patients  receiving  topical  ocular  doses  is  considered  to  be  unlikely.  In  vitro 
experiments have shown travoprost free acid to be moderately bound (about 80%) to plasma proteins 
in humans, indicating drug-drug interactions through protein binding to be unlikely. 
Specific drug interaction studies with cytochrome P450 substrates have not been conducted with AL-
5848.  The  very  low  systemic  exposure  to  AL-5848  after  topical  ocular  administration  of  travoprost 
would not influence the P450 enzyme-mediated metabolism of other concomitant agents. Concomitant 
©EMEA 2006 
10/33 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administration of potent inhibitors of cytochrome P450 enzymes would not impact the low systemic 
exposure  of  AL-5848  after  topical  ocular  administration  of  travoprost/timolol  Eye  Drops,  since 
travoprost is metabolized extensively by routes other than cytochrome P450 pathways. 
Potentiated  systemic  beta-blockade  (e.g.,  decreased  heart  rate)  has  been  reported  during  co-
administration of oral timolol with quinidine, possibly because of quinidine inhibiting the metabolism 
of timolol by the cytochrome P450 CYP2D6 
Study  C-02-35,  a  single  centre,  double-masked,  randomised,  3-way  cross-over,  multiple-dose 
pharmacokinetic  study,  was  aimed  to  determine  plasma  concentrations  of  AL-5848  following  the 
administration of the fixed dose combination of travoprost/timolol eye drops as compared to those of  
travoprost  and  timolol  given  separately.  Fifteen  healthy  volunteers  (from  19  to  79  year  old) 
participated  in  study.  Plasma  concentrations  of  AL-5848  and  of  timolol  were  measured.  The  results 
show  that  only  18  plasma  samples  (4  out  of  15  subjects)  following  dosing  with  either 
travoprost/timolol  eye  drops  or  Travatan  had  quantifiable  concentrations  of  AL-5848  (LOQ<10 
pg/ml). The applicant concludes that no differences between treatment groups were identified and that 
it can be concluded that travoprost/timolol eye drops and Travatan, both dosed once daily for 3 days, 
result  in  similar  plasma  concentrations  of  AL5848.  However,  from  such  limited  data  it  appears 
difficult to conclude on bioequivalence. Nevertheless, the difficulties in performing such an analysis 
are  recognised  due  to  the  limited  systemic  exposure  of  AL-5848  and  thus,  no  further  studies  were 
considered necessary.  
The  systemic  absorption  of  timolol  was  also  determined.  The  mean  peak  plasma  concentrations  on 
Day 1 were 0.552 ng/ml after travoprost/timolol Eye Drops and 0.482 ng/ml after timolol 5 mg/ml. At 
steady-state  (Day  3),  the  mean  peak  plasma  concentrations  were  0.692  ng/ml  and  0.613  ng/ml 
following travoprost/timolol Eye Drops and timolol 5 mg/ml, respectively. Cmax, Tmax and AUC0-12 for 
timolol showed no statistically significant differences between treatments. The applicant concludes on 
the  bioequivalence  of  the  plasma  concentrations  of  timolol  after  travoprost/timolol  eye  drops 
compared to timolol in monotherapy based on the lack of statistically significant differences.  
Further,  an  analysis  of  the  ratios  of  the  geometric  means  for  Cmax,  AUC0-12  and  AUC0-inf  were 
evaluated.  The  upper  bounds  of  the  90%  confidence  interval  for  the  ratios  of  the  geometric  means 
exceed  the  125%  criteria.  However,  due  to  the  lack  of  statistical  difference  between  the  geometric 
means,  the  high  level  of  inter-subject  variability,  and  the  small  absolute  differences  in  mean 
concentration and exposure (mean differences of 0.087 ng/ml in Cmax and 0.314 ng·h/ml in AUC0-12 on 
Day 3), the width of the confidence interval was not considered to be clinically relevant. 
From the results of this study, it is also concluded that administration of travoprost/timolol eye drops 
did not result in a change in the systemic exposure to either timolol, as compared to timolol 5 mg/ml 
alone, or travoprost, as compared to Travatan given in monotherapy. Therefore, the lack of drug-drug 
interaction between timolol and Travatan was concluded.  
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
No  specific  pharmacodynamic  studies  have  been  performed  with  the  fixed  dose  combination  of 
travoprost/timolol eye drops. 
Travoprost  is  a  highly  selective  full  FP  prostanoid  receptor  agonist  that  is  believed  to  reduce 
intraocular  pressure  by  increasing  uveoscleral  outflow,  although  the  exact  mechanism  of  action  is 
unknown  at  this  time.  Reduction  of  intraocular  pressure  starts  within  approximately  2  hours  after 
administration,  and  the  maximum  effect  is  reached  after  12  hours.  The  effect  can  be  maintained  for 
periods exceeding 24 hours with a single dose.  
Timolol maleate is a beta-1 and beta-2 adrenergic receptor-blocking agent; when applied topically to 
the eye, reduces elevated, as well as normal, intraocular pressure. The exact mechanism of action of 
this  ocular  hypotensive  action  is  not  clearly  established  at  this  time.  It  is  suggested  that  its 
©EMEA 2006 
11/33 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
predominant action may be related to reduced aqueous humour formation, although a slight increase in 
outflow facility has also been reported.  
The proposed fixed dose combination contains the two active components, i.e. travoprost and timolol 
maleate. Since they are known to have different mechanism of actions, it is foreseen that a combined 
effect would result in additional IOP reduction compared to either compound administered alone.  
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
No  specific  pharmacodynamic  studies  have  been  performed  with  the  fixed  dose  combination  of 
travoprost/timolol eye drops.  
Clinical efficacy  
The clinical development plan to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of travoprost 40 µg/ml/timolol 5 
mg/ml  Eye  Drops,  Solution  (travoprost/timolol  Eye  Drops)  included  5  clinical  trials  that  were 
multicenter, randomized, double-masked, parallel group, controlled clinical safety and efficacy trials.  
There are 2 ongoing efficacy/safety clinical studies (C-04-03 and C-04-04) conducted outside the EU, 
which  compares  travoprost/timolol  Eye  Drops  to  the  concomitant  administration  of  latanoprost  and 
timolol. 
Overall,  the  comments  from  the  regulatory  agencies  (Sweden,  UK  and  Spain)  have  been  followed 
during the clinical development programme of this fixed dose combination for travoprost and timolol.   
•  Dose response studies 
The proposed dosage for travoprost/timolol Eye Drops, i.e. travoprost 40 µg/ml plus timolol 5 mg/ml, 
is mainly based on the combination of currently approved doses for both products.  
Although  timolol  has  been  dosed  according  to  the  SPC  recommendation,  the  proposed  fixed  dose 
combination  of  travoprost/timolol  does  not  allow  the  maximum  dose  of  timolol,  i.e.  one  drop  0.5% 
twice  daily,  to  be  achieved.  This  maximum  dose  was  used  in  the  clinical  study  provided  with  the 
initial  Marketing  Authorisation  Applicant  to  support  the  use  of  travoprost  in  addition  to  timolol  in 
patients with insufficient control on timolol monotherapy.  
The applicant argues that the prostaglandin component is believed to provide the largest contribution 
to  the  IOP-lowering  efficacy  of  the  travoprost/timolol  fixed  combination  because  prostaglandin 
analogues have consistently shown superior efficacy to timolol in clinical trials and that better IOP-
lowering  efficacy  is  observed  with  once-daily  dosing  of  a  prostaglandin  analogue,  and  little  or  no 
long-term clinical benefit is expected from twice- daily dosing of timolol. The applicant’s justification 
of  the  selection  of  a  once-daily  dosing  frequency  for  the  fixed  combination  travoprost/timolol  Eye 
Drops, Solution was considered to be acceptable. 
•  Main studies  
Five clinical studies were conducted to support the efficacy and safety of the fixed dose combination 
of travoprost/timolol in the reduction of elevated IOP in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular 
hypertension. These studies were multicenter, randomised, double-masked, parallel group, controlled 
clinical safety and efficacy trials. 
©EMEA 2006 
12/33 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study # 
(Study Type / 
Location) 
C-02-03 
Safety/Efficacy 
Posology 
Europe 
C-01-69 
Safety/Efficacy 
Contribution of 
Elements 
US 
C-01-70 
Safety/Efficacy 
Concomitant 
administration #1 
US 
C-02-41 
Safety/Efficacy 
Concomitant 
administration #2 
US 
C-02-28 
Safety/Efficacy 
Comparative 
Europe, Australia, 
New Zealand, Asia 
Summary of Safety/Efficacy Trials of Travoprost/Timolol Eye Drops 
Study Design 
Treatment 
Duration 
Patient Population 
Treatment Groups  
Dosinga 
No. of 
Sitesb 
No. Patients 
Randomized 
(ratio) 
Status 
Randomized, 
double-masked, 
parallel group 
6 weeks 
Adults,  
open-angle 
glaucoma or ocular 
hypertension 
•  Travoprost/Timolol  
•  Travoprost/Timolol 
•  1 drop AM 
•  1 drop PM 
Randomized, 
double-masked, 
parallel group 
3 months plus 
3 month 
masked 
extension 
Adults,  
open-angle 
glaucoma or ocular 
hypertension 
•  Travoprost/Timolol  
•  TRAVATAN 
•  Timolol  
•  1 drop AM 
•  1 drop PM 
•  1 drop BID 
Randomized, 
double-masked, 
parallel group 
3 months plus 
3 month 
masked 
extension 
Adults,  
open-angle 
glaucoma or ocular 
hypertension 
•  Travoprost/Timolol 
•  TRAVATAN+Timolol 
•  1 drop AM 
•  1 drop PM + 
1 drop AM 
Randomized, 
double-masked, 
parallel group 
3 months plus 
3 month 
masked 
extension 
Adults,  
open-angle 
glaucoma or ocular 
hypertension 
•  Travoprost/Timolol  
•  TRAVATAN+Timolol  
•  Timolol 
Randomized, 
double-masked, 
parallel group 
12 months 
Adults, 
open-angle 
glaucoma or ocular 
hypertension 
•  Travoprost/Timolol  
•  Latanoprost/Timolol 
(XALACOM) 
•  1 drop AM 
•  1 drop PM + 
1 drop AM 
•  1 drop BID 
•  1 drop AM 
•  1 drop AM 
14 
33 
19 
26 
41 
92 
(1:1) 
Completed 
263 
(1:1:1) 
Completed 
316 
(1:1) 
Completed 
403 
(2:2:1) 
Completed 
408 
(1:1) 
Completed 
Travoprost/Timolol = Travoprost 40 µg/ml/Timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution 
TRAVATAN = Travoprost 40 µg/ml Eye Drops, Solution 
Timolol = Timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution 
Latanoprost/Timolol (XALACOM) = Latanoprost 50 µg/ml/Timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution 
Latanoprost = Latanoprost 50 µg/ml Eye Drops, Solution 
a In each study eye 
b Number of sites that enrolled patients
©EMEA 2006 
13/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Inclusion criteria were common across the 5 clinical trials (C-02-03, C-01-69, C-01-70, C-02-41 and 
C-02-28), with the exception of the IOP entry criteria and response to previous IOP lowering therapy: 
(cid:131)  Adult patients of either sex and of any race diagnosed with open-angle glaucoma (with or without 
pseudoexfoliation or pigment dispersion component) or ocular hypertension. 
(cid:131)  At  screening,  patients  were  required  to  discontinue  use  of  all  IOP-lowering  medications  for  a 
minimum period of 5 days (for miotics and oral/topical carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (CAI)), 14 
days  for  alpha  and  alpha/beta  agonist  to  28  days  (for  beta  antagonists  and  prostaglandin 
analogues).  This  visit  was  followed  by  off-therapy  Eligibility  1  and  2  Visits  in  which  patients 
must have met the following IOP entry criteria in at least one treated eye: an upper IOP limit of 36 
mmHg, chosen for safety reasons, and a lower limit that varied across studies and ranged from 22 
to 24 at 8AM (except in Study C-01-69 that required a stringent IOP entry criteria, i.e. from 26 to 
36mmHg  at  8AM).  Patients  in  C-02-28  had  one  Eligibility  Visit  prior  to  randomization  and 
assignment of study medications. 
The off-therapy IOP criteria for entry in Study C-01-69 were selected to identify patients with higher 
IOP who would be expected to have a greater need for combination therapy. Additionally, the entry 
criteria  for  C-02-28  required  that  patients  be  intolerant  or  insufficiently  responsive  to  another  IOP-
lowering agent. An upper IOP limit of 36 mmHg was chosen for safety reasons for all studies.  
Qualifying IOP for Studies C-02-03, C-01-69, C-01-70, C-02-41 and C-02-28 
Qualifying IOPsa  (mmHg) 
Study 
C-02-03 
C-01-69 
C-01-70 
C-02-41 
C-02-28 
8/9 AM 
24 to 36 
26 to 36 
22 to 36 
22 to 36 
24 to 36 
Eligibility Visit 1 
10/11 AM 
21 to 36 
24 to 36 
≤ 36 
≤ 36 
21 to 36 
4 PM 
21 to 36 
22 to 36 
≤ 36 
≤ 36 
21 to 36 
8/9AM 
24 to 36 
26 to 36 
22 to 36 
22 to 36 
N.A. 
Eligibility Visit 2 
10/11 AM 
21 to 36 
≤ 36 
≤ 36 
≤ 36 
N.A. 
4 PM 
21 to 36 
≤ 36 
≤ 36 
≤ 36 
N.A. 
  a  IOP in the qualifying eye following washout;  neither eye could have an IOP > 36 mmHg at any 
time-point or visit 
N.A. = Not Applicable 
The exclusion criteria for the 5 clinical trials were similar: patients with history of chronic or recurrent 
severe inflammatory eye disease or significant or progressive retinal disease, patients with history of 
ocular trauma (within 6 months), ocular infection (within 3 months), ocular surgery (within 6 months), 
or  laser  surgery  (within  3  months),  best-corrected  visual  acuity  worse  than  0.6  logMAR  score, 
cup/disc ratio greater than 0.80, severe central visual field loss in either eye, extreme narrow anterior 
chamber  angle  with  complete  or  partial  closure,  use  of  contraindicated  medications  such  as 
glucocorticoids,  less  than  30  days  stable  dosing  of  any  medication  that  may  affect  IOP,  history  of 
chronic  respiratory  disease  and  of  severe,  unstable,  or  uncontrolled  cardiovascular,  hepatic,  or  renal 
disease. 
Treatments 
The combination of travoprost 40 µg/ml plus timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution (travoprost/timolol 
Eye Drops) was used in the clinical development plan that included 5 clinical trials to demonstrate the 
safety and efficacy. 
Objectives 
©EMEA 2006 
14/33 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study number 
Objective 
C-02-03 
C-01-69 
C-01-70 and C-02-41 
C-02-28 
to 
in 
the  morning 
travoprost/timolol  Eye  Drops  dosed 
To  compare 
travoprost/timolol Eye Drops dosed in the evening 
To  compare  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  travoprost/timolol  Eye  Drops  dosed 
once-daily  in  the  morning  to  Travatan  dosed  once-daily  in  the  evening  and 
timolol  5  mg/ml  Eye  Drops  dosed  twice  daily  in  a  contribution-of-elements 
design 
To  compare  travoprost/timolol  Eye  Drops  dosed  once-daily  in  the  morning  to 
the  concomitant  administration  of  Travatan  dosed  once-daily  in  the  evening 
plus timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops dosed once-daily in the morning 
To  compare  travoprost/timolol  Eye  Drops  to  Latanoprost  50  µg/ml/timolol  5 
mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution, both dosed once-daily in the morning 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary endpoint: mean IOP at different time points and visits was the primary efficacy parameter.  
Secondary endpoints:  
-  The proportion of patients with IOP less than 18 mmHg at selected or all visits was a secondary 
variable  in  order  to  assess  clinical  relevance  of  therapy  for  individual  patients.  An  IOP  of  18 
mmHg  was  used  as  the  ‘target  IOP’  consistent  with  the  findings  of  the  National  Eye  Institute-
sponsored Advanced Glaucoma Intervention Study (AGIS) which demonstrated that patients with 
IOP < 18 mmHg at all visits over 6 years had mean changes from baseline in visual field score 
close to zero during follow-up. 
-  Mean  changes  in  IOP  and  mean  percent  change  in  IOP  from  baseline  were  used  as  secondary 
variables because they are alternate endpoints that take baseline IOP into account. 
IOP was measured at 3 time-points during the day:  
(cid:131)  Studies C-01-69, C-01-70 and C-02-41 were conducted in the US and used the time-points 8 AM, 
10 AM and 4 PM.  
(cid:131)  Studies C-02-03 and C-02-28 were conducted in Europe and in countries outside the EU. The 
time-points used, 9 AM, 11 AM and 4 PM, are standard for European clinical study practice.  
Table below summarises the timing of study visits and IOP measurements in the 5 studies. 
Visits and IOP Measurement Time-Points by Visit for  
Studies C-02-03, C-01-69, C-01-70, C-02-41, and C-02-28 
Study 
Screen  Eligib. 
C-02-03 
C-01-69 
C-01-70 
C-02-41 
C-02-28 
 (X)  = IOP measurements at the screening visit (Screen) were not required to be taken at a specific 
(X) 
(X) 
(X) 
(X) 
(X) 
Month 
3 
- 
X 
X 
X 
X* 
Month 
 6 
- 
X 
X 
X 
X 
Month 
 9 
- 
- 
- 
- 
X* 
Month
 12 
- 
- 
- 
- 
X 
Eligib.
2 
X 
X 
X 
X 
- 
Week 
2 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X* 
1 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X 
Visits 
Week 
6 
X 
X 
X 
X 
X* 
time of day and were not used in the analyses 
  X  = IOP measurement – 3 time-points (8/9 AM, 10/11 AM and 4 PM)   
  X*  = IOP measurement – 1 time-point (9 AM)  
If only one of a patient’s eyes was dosed, the dosed eye was selected for analysis. If both of a patient’s 
eyes were dosed, the worse evaluable eye was selected for analysis.  
©EMEA 2006 
15/33  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the long-term studies that tested non-inferiority as the primary statistical objective (C-01-70, C-02-
41  and  C-02-28),  a  criterion  of  1.5  mmHg  difference  was  used,  which  is  considered  acceptable  and 
consistent to previous studies.  
In the posology study (C-02-03), 2.5 mmHg was selected as the equivalence criterion.  
Sample size 
See table ‘Summary of Safety/Efficacy Trials of travoprost/timolol Eye Drops’ 
Randomisation 
See table ‘Summary of Safety/Efficacy Trials of travoprost/timolol Eye Drops’ 
Statistical methods 
If only one of a patient’s eyes was dosed, the dosed eye was selected for analysis. If both of a patient’s 
eyes  were  dosed,  the  worse  evaluable  eye  was  selected  for  analysis.  Both  eyes  of  a  patient  were 
required  to  be  dosed  unless  there  was  a  safety  reason  not  to  do  so.  The  worse  eye  was  defined 
according to eligibility status as follows: the eye with the higher IOP at 8/9 AM averaged across the 
eligibility visit(s); if both eyes were equal, then the eye with the higher IOP at 10/11 AM; if both eyes 
were equal, then the eye with the higher IOP at 4 PM; if both eyes were equal, then the right eye was 
selected for analysis. 
Per protocol (PP) data and intent-to-treat (ITT) results are provided for all efficacy studies. For non-
inferiority  hypotheses,  per  protocol  data  were  considered  primary,  while  for  superiority  hypotheses, 
intent-to-treat data were considered primary. In all cases, results from both data sets are included.  
All  patients  who  received  study  medication  and  had  at  least  one  on-therapy  study  visit  were 
considered evaluable for the intent-to-treat analysis. All patients who received study medication, had 
at least one on-therapy study visit and satisfied inclusion/exclusion criteria were considered evaluable 
for the per protocol analysis. The intent-to-treat data sets include imputed values for all missing data 
including those for patients who were early discontinuations if on-therapy data were available. In the 
long-term studies that tested non-inferiority as the primary statistical objective (C-01-70, C-02-41 and 
C-02-28),  a  criterion  of  1.5  mmHg  difference  was  used.  This  criterion  is  the  same  as  used  and 
accepted  in  previous  regulatory  submissions  of  drug  products  intended  for the reduction of elevated 
intraocular pressure. 
In the posology study (C-02-03), 2.5 mmHg was selected as the equivalence criterion. This criterion 
was chosen so that, unless there was a substantial difference in efficacy, other factors such as safety, 
convenience and patient acceptance would guide the preference between morning and evening dosing. 
RESULTS 
Conduct of the study 
All  clinical  trials  with  travoprost/timolol  were  in  a  randomised,  double-blind  manner  and  were 
according to ICH GCP regulations. The applicant has conducted appropriate audits of the completed 
clinical studies submitted in this application. 
Baseline data 
The population included in clinical trials ranged in age from 18 to 91 years, with slightly more female 
as compared to male patients (57.6% vs. 42.4%), and with a similar distribution of adult and elderly 
(50.3% vs. 49.7%, respectively) patients.  
The  majority  were  Caucasian  (75.8%)  and  had  brown  irides  (50.9%).  Overall,  no  clinically  relevant 
differences  were  observed  between  the  treatment  groups  in  the  assessment  of  demographic 
characteristics.  
Comorbidity  and  concomitant  medication  were  those  expected  for  an  aging  population,  with 
hypertension  being  the  most  common  systemic  disease,  seen  in  almost  half  of  the  patients. 
Concomitant ocular diseases such as cataracts, dry eye and pinguecula were more commonly seen in 
©EMEA 2006 
16/33  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  comparative  groups  (i.e.  Travatan  plus  timolol,  timolol,  Travatan)  as  compared  to  the 
travoprost/timolol group. 
Numbers analysed 
Study C-02-03 (Safety/Efficacy Study – Posology) 
This study was designed as an equivalence study, with a pre-specified delta limit of equivalence of 2.5 
mmHg. Ninety-two patients were randomized to one of 2 treatment groups. One patient was excluded 
from the intent-to-treat analysis due to exit prior to generating on-treatment data. This resulted in 91 
patients  in  the  intent-to-treat  data  set.  A  total  of  9  patients  were  excluded  from  the  per  protocol 
analysis  due  to  protocol  violations  (e.g.,  non-qualifying  IOP,  IOP  measurement  /visit  outside  study 
window,  inadequate  time  interval  from  dosing  to  IOP  measurement,  patient  did  not  dose/ran  out  of 
medication, inadequate washout, and use of excluded concomitant medication) resulting in 83 patients 
in the per protocol data set.  
Study C-01-69 (Safety/Efficacy Study – Contribution of Elements) 
Two  hundred  and  sixty  three  patients  who  met  IOP  criteria  were  randomly  assigned  to  each  of  the 
three treatment groups. Of these, 258 constituted the ITT population. Primary endpoint was mean IOP 
at  8AM,  10AM  and  4  PM  in  the  worst  eye  at  2-week,  6-week  and  3-month  visits.  Patients  were 
followed for an additional 3-month extension phase in a masked way. 
A  total  of  18  patients  were  excluded  from  the  per  protocol  analysis  due  to  protocol  violations  (e.g., 
non-qualifying  IOP,  dosing  non-compliance,  violation  of  inclusion/exclusion  criteria,  and  use  of 
excluded  concomitant  medication)  and  thus,  from  the  258  patients  evaluable  for  ITT  analysis  245 
remained for the PP analysis. 
Study C-01-70 and Study C-02-41 (Safety/Efficacy Studies) 
Study designs were identical with the exception of a timolol 5 mg/ml twice-daily treatment arm that 
was included in C-02-41 to allow for internal study validation.  
Three hundred sixteen patients were randomized in Study C-01-70 to one of 2 treatments in a 1:1 ratio 
(travoprost/timolol Eye Drops, Travatan plus timolol 5 mg/ml). All 316 patients were included in the 
safety  analysis,  11  patients  were  excluded  from  the  intent-to-treat  analysis  due  to  exit  prior  to 
generating on-treatment data. This resulted in 305 patients in the ITT data set. A total of 23 patients 
was excluded from the per protocol analysis due to protocol violations resulting in 293 patients in the 
per protocol data set. 
In  C-02-41,  403  patients  were  randomized  to  one  of  3  treatment  groups  in  a  2:2:1  ratio 
(travoprost/timolol Eye Drops, Travatan plus timolol 5 mg/ml, timolol 5 mg/ml). Two patients were 
excluded  from  the  intent-to-treat  analysis  due  to  exit  prior  to  generating  on-treatment  data.  This 
resulted in 401 patients in the intent-to-treat data set. A total of 16 patients was excluded from the per 
protocol analysis due to protocol violations resulting in 387 patients in the per protocol data set. 
Study C-02-28 (Safety/Efficacy Study – Comparative) 
Four hundred and eight patients were randomized to one of 2 treatment groups. One of these patients 
was never dosed with study medications, leaving 407 patients evaluable for safety analysis. Of these, 
398 were included in the ITT analysis and 332 Per Protocol analysis (due to 76 exclusions for protocol 
violations). The per protocol data set was the basis for primary inference in this non-inferiority study. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Study C-02-03 (Safety/Efficacy Study – Posology) 
Differences  between  AM  and  PM  posology  were  within  the  2.5  mmHg  delta  and  thus,  equivalence 
was concluded by the applicant. Nevertheless it is noted that the rationale provided by the applicant 
for selecting such a broad delta was not considered to be convincing. 
Using  a  stricter  and  generally  accepted  criterion,  i.e.  a  delta  of  1.5  mmHg,  equivalence  can  not  be 
concluded at all time-points in each visit.  The AM posology, achieved lower mean IOP at 9AM and at 
11AM, while at 4PM the PM posology achieved lower IOP values, which is opposed to what it would 
be  expected  considering  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  each  component.  Travoprost/timolol  Eye 
©EMEA 2006 
17/33  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Drops produces statistically significant reductions from baseline in IOP, with mean reductions ranging 
from approximately 8 to 10 mm Hg, which means an IOP reduction of 33% to 38% relative to baseline 
in  the  per  protocol  analysis.  Considering  the  pre-established  response  criteria,  (i.e.  patients  who 
achieve IOP levels below 18 mm Hg in at least one time-point at each study visit), travoprost/timolol 
Eye Drops provides IOP control in 63% (AM dosing) and 65% (PM dosing) of patients.  
Study C-01-69 (Safety/Efficacy Study – Contribution of Elements) 
Mean  IOP  following  treatment  with  travoprost  0.004%/timolol  0.5%  was  statistically  significantly 
lower than mean IOP following treatment with timolol 0.5% at all nine visits and times throughout the 
study in both the intent-to-treat (p=0.009) and per protocol (p=0.016) analyses. Mean IOP differences 
ranged  from  1.5  and  2.7  mm  Hg.  Results  of  the  PP  analyses  were  consistent  with  those  of  the  ITT 
analysis.  IOP  changes  from  baseline  differences  were  in  favour  of  travoprost  0.004%/timolol  0.5% 
over  timolol  0.5%,  and  ranged  from  1.9  to  3.3  mm  Hg.  Therefore,  superiority  of  travoprost/timolol 
over timolol BID can be concluded.  
Travoprost/timolol  Eye  Drops  produced  greater  IOP-lowering  than  Travatan  at  all  times.  However, 
statistically significant differences over Travatan were only achieved in five out of the 9 time points 
throughout  the  study  duration.  In  fact,  at  the  3-month  and  at  6-month  visits,  statistically  significant 
differences over Travatan were only seen at 8AM time-point, which is surprising considering that the 
comparison  is  between  the  travoprost/timolol  trough  with  the  Travatan  peak  effect.  Mean  IOP 
differences between treatment groups ranged from 0.4 to 1.8 mmHg. Mean IOP changes from baseline 
show differences in favour of travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5% over Travatan, and ranged from 1.0 to 
2.4  mmHg  and  from  0.7  to  2.3  mmHg,  respectively,  in  the  ITT  and  PP  analyses,  respectively,  and 
were  statistically  significant  at  seven  of  nine  visits  and  times  in  both  analyses  (p<0.05).  The 
superiority  of  travoprost/timolol  over  Travatan  for  the  mean  IOP  and  for  the  IOP  changes  from 
baseline has been demonstrated for the majority, although not all, time points. However, results of the 
responder  analysis  confirm  the  superiority  of  the  fixed  dose  combination  with  responder  rates  at  3-
month  of  39%,  44.4%  and  48.8%  in  the  travoprost/timolol  group,  20.2%,  26.2%  and  32.1%  in  the 
travoprost  group  and  20%,  26.4%  and  30.8%  in  the  timolol  group,  at  8AM,  10AM  and  4PM, 
respectively.  
©EMEA 2006 
18/33  
 
 
 
 
Mean IOP for Travoprost/Timolol Eye Drops, TRAVATAN and Timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops  
(C-01-69 Intent-to-Treat Data) 
TRAV/TIM
TRAVATAN
Timolol
)
g
H
m
m
(
P
O
I
n
a
e
M
32
30
28
26
24
22
20
18
16
14
12
8AM 10AM 4PM 8AM 10AM 4PM 8AM 10AM 4PM 8AM 10AM 4PM 8AM 10AM 4PM
Week 6
Month 6
Month 3
Baseline
Week 2
TRAV/TIM = Travoprost 40 µg/ml / Timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution
The  superiority  of  the  fixed  dose  combination  travoprost/timolol  over  Travatan  and  timolol  in 
monotherapy can be concluded.  
Study C-01-70 and Study C-02-41 (Safety/Efficacy Studies) 
In Study C-01-70, Travatan plus timolol produced greater IOP reduction at all time-points. Treatment-
group differences in mean IOP between the fixed and free combination products ranged from 0.1 to 
1.1 mmHg in favour of the concomitant therapy.  
The non-inferiority of travoprost/timolol eye drops over Travatan plus timolol was seen in 6 out of 9 
time  points,  while  in  3  out  of  9,  the  upper  confident  limit  for  the  differences  in  mean  IOP  between 
treatment groups were not within 1.5 mmHg. Only at 8AM time point, the non-inferiority was shown 
at all study visits.  Although the non-inferiority of travoprost/timolol over Travatan plus timolol has 
not been consistently demonstrated at all time points, differences between treatment groups were close 
to the non-inferiority limit (below the 1.7mmHg) in all cases, which suggest that there are no major 
differences between treatment groups. 
Results of Study C-02-41 were consistent to that seen in Study C-01-70, with Travatan plus timolol 
producing greater IOP reductions. Treatment group differences ranged from 0.3 to 1.1 mmHg in the 
PP analysis. Differences were out of the upper confidence interval (CI) limit of non-inferiority in 3 out 
of  9  time-points  favouring  the  co-administration  of  Travatan  plus  timolol.    Results  of  this  study  are 
consistent to those seen in Study C-01-70.  The non-inferiority of travoprost/timolol Eye Drops over 
the concomitant administration of timolol plus Travatan was not shown at all time points. However, 
differences were close to the established limit of non-inferiority between treatment groups (below 1.8 
in all cases), supporting the lack of major differences. 
The superiority over timolol 5mg/ml twice daily can be concluded, with lower 95% CI limit out of –
1.8 in all study visits and IOP measures. Mean IOP differences in favour of travoprost/timolol range 
from 0.9 to 2.1mmHg in the ITT analysis. 
©EMEA 2006 
19/33  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study C-02-28 (Safety/Efficacy Study – Comparative) 
Mean baseline IOP in the per protocol data set ranged across the day from 24.6 to 27.0 mmHg for the 
travoprost/timolol  Eye  Drops  group  and  from  25.2  to  27.3  mmHg  for  the  Latanoprost/timolol  Eye 
Drops group.  
The results of C-02-28 demonstrate that travoprost/timolol Eye Drops produces IOP-lowering that is 
non-inferior  to  Latanoprost/timolol  Eye  Drops.    The  upper  95%  confidence  limit  for  mean  IOP  was 
less than +1.5 mmHg at all study visits and times.  
The  per  protocol  results  were  confirmed  in  the  intent-to-treat  analysis,  in  which  all  upper  95% 
confidence limits were also less than +1.5 mmHg. Travoprost/timolol Eye Drops produced statistically 
significant and clinically relevant reductions from baseline in IOP, with mean reductions ranging from 
approximately 8 to 10 mmHg. Further, up to 62% of patients achieved IOP levels <18 mmHg at one or 
more  time-points  at  all  visits.  Therefore,  the  non-inferiority  of  the  fixed  dose  combination  of 
fixed  dose  combination  of 
travoprost/timolol  Eye  Drops  over 
Latanoprost/timolol has been convincingly demonstrated.  
the  currently  approved 
©EMEA 2006 
20/33  
 
 
 
 
 
IOP Least Squares Means Differences (mmHg) Between Travoprost/Timolol Eye Drops and 
Latanoprost/Timolol Eye Drops and 95% Confidence Intervals  
(C-02-28  Per Protocol Data) 
Trav 0.004%/Tim 0.5% = Travoprost 40µg/ml/Timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution 
Lat 0.005%/Tim 0.5% = Latanoprost 50µg/ml/Timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution 
Comb. = Results pooled across Week 2, Week 6, and Months 3, 6, 9 and 12. 
©EMEA 2006 
21/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Ancillary analyses 
No ancillary analyses have been performed. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Difference in Mean IOP Between Treatment Groups and 95% Confidence Intervals 
(Per Protocol Data Sets) 
Visit and IOP 
Measurement Time 
Week 2 
Week 6 
Month 3 
Month 6 
Pooled 
across 
visits 
8 AM 
10 AM 
4 PM 
8 AM 
10 AM 
4 PM 
8 AM 
10 AM 
4 PM 
8 AM 
10 AM 
4 PM 
8 AM 
10 AM 
4 PM 
C-01-70 
C-02-41 
Trav/Tim – TRAV + Tim 
∆ 
0.1 
0.3 
0.5 
0.1 
1.0* 
0.9* 
0.6 
1.0* 
0.9* 
0.6 
0.9* 
0.5 
0.4 
0.8* 
0.7* 
95%CI 
-0.5, 0.8 
-0.4, 0.9 
-0.2, 1.1 
-0.5, 0.8 
 0.4, 1.7 
 0.3, 1.6 
-0.1, 1.2 
  0.4, 1.6 
  0.2, 1.5 
-0.0, 1.3 
 0.3, 1.6 
-0.1, 1.2 
-0.1, 0.9 
 0.3, 1.3 
 0.2, 1.2 
Trav/Tim – TRAV + Tim 
95%CI 
-0.1, 1.3 
 0.4, 1.8 
 0.0, 1.5 
-0.4, 1.1 
 0.3, 1.7 
 0.0, 1.5 
-0.3, 1.2 
-0.1, 1.4 
 0.1, 1.6 
-0.2, 1.3 
 0.6, 2.1 
 0.1, 1.6 
-0.1, 1.1 
 0.4, 1.6 
 0.2, 1.4 
∆ 
0.6 
1.1* 
0.8* 
0.3 
1.0* 
0.7* 
0.4 
0.7 
0.9* 
0.6 
1.3* 
0.8* 
0.5 
1.0* 
0.8* 
Pooled Across Studies 
(C-01-70 and C-02-41) 
Trav/Tim – TRAV + Tim 
∆ 
0.4 
0.7* 
0.6* 
0.2 
1.0* 
0.8* 
0.5* 
0.8* 
0.9* 
0.6* 
1.1* 
0.7* 
0.4* 
0.9* 
0.7* 
95%CI 
-0.1, 0.9 
  0.2, 1.2 
  0.1, 1.1 
-0.3, 0.7 
  0.5, 1.5 
  0.4, 1.3 
  0.0, 1.0 
  0.3, 1.3 
  0.4, 1.4 
  0.1, 1.1 
  0.6, 1.6 
  0.2, 1.2 
  0.0, 0.8 
  0.5, 1.3 
 0.4, 1.1 
∆ = Difference in mean IOP (Trav/Tim minus TRAV+Tim) 
* = Statistically significant (p<0.05) 
Studies C-01-70 and C-01-41 were pooled to assess the comparative IOP effect of travoprost/timolol 
as compared to Travatan plus timolol, given separately. Although individual studies were not able to 
demonstrate  the  non-inferiority  effect  of  these  two  combination  therapies  at  all  time  points,  the 
analysis of pooled data across these two studies convincingly demonstrates the non-inferiority of the 
fixed  dose  combination  over  Travatan  plus  timolol  coadministered,  which  confirm  previous 
conclusions. The results of the pooled analysis were within the upper confidence limits of 1.5 mm Hg 
or  less  at  all  visits  and  times  throughout  the  3-month  period,  the  pre-planned  period  for  primary 
efficacy, demonstrating the non-inferiority of travoprost/timolol Eye Drops to the concomitant dosing 
of Travatan and timolol 5 mg/ml Eye Drops, Solution 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
No studies in special populations have been performed. 
•  Supportive studies 
No supportive studies have been submitted. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Study C-02-03 (Safety/Efficacy Study – Posology) 
The  ideal  timing  of  the  administration  was  considered  to  be  a  matter  of  concern.  The  applicant was 
therefore  requested  to  provide  a  well  justified  dosing  recommendation  helpful  for  prescribers, 
considering  the  results  available.    The  applicant  argued  that  results  from  two  of  the  main  efficacy 
studies of the fixed dose combination (i.e. Studies C-01-70 and C-02-41) showed some advantages in 
the mean IOP reduction with the concomitantly used dose combination, where travoprost was given at 
evenings  and  timolol  at  mornings.  However,  it  is  agreed,  also  by  the  CHMP  that  these  differences 
appear not to be relevant. Therefore, the current posology (section 4.2 of the SPC) recommendation is 
considered to be appropriate allowing morning or evening administration depending on the patients’ 
preferences. Further, section 5.1 of the SPC includes information reflecting these results.    
©EMEA 2006 
22/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study C-01-69 (Safety/Efficacy Study – Contribution of Elements) 
The  superiority  of  the  fixed  dose  combination  over  Travatan  and  timolol  in  monotherapy  can  be 
concluded.  
Study C-01-70 and Study C-02-41 (Safety/Efficacy Studies) 
The results of these two studies show a tendency towards a lower IOP reduction effect with the fixed 
dose combination as compared to timolol plus Travatan given separately. It is however recognised that 
these differences do not appear clinically relevant, and that they are counteracted by the advantages of 
a once daily single dose administration of the fixed dose combination eye drops. Therefore, it can be 
concluded that these two non-inferiority studies support the IOP reduction effect of travoprost/timolol 
Eye  Drops  (once  daily  in  the  morning)  and  the  concomitant  administration  of  timolol  5  mg/ml  Eye 
Drops  (once  daily  in  the  morning)  plus  Travatan  (once-daily  in  the  evening)  in  patients  with  open-
angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.  
Study C-02-28 (Safety/Efficacy Study – Comparative) 
This study demonstrated the non-inferiority of the fixed dose combination of travoprost/timolol Eye 
Drops  to  the  currently  approved  fixed  dose  combination  of  Latanoprost/timolol,  which  has  been 
convincingly demonstrated.  
Indication 
The  current  clinical  development  programme  was  aimed  to  demonstrate  the  similarity  in  terms  of 
efficacy  and  safety  of  the  fixed  dose  combination  as  compared  to  that  of  the  concomitant  use  of 
timolol  plus  Travatan,  which  has  been  demonstrated.  Patients  included  in  the  clinical  development 
programme  for  the  fixed  dose  combination,  although  previously  treated  with  IOP  lowering 
monotherapies,  were  not  insufficiently  responsive  to  these  therapies,  as  this  was  not  an  inclusion 
criteria in the studies performed. (Only the comparative Study C-02-28 included this type of patients).  
The IOP lowering benefit of the combination therapy in patients with an insufficient response to beta-
blockers has only been convincingly demonstrated in those patients participating in Study C-97-73 (in 
which patients with insufficient response while on timolol therapy were randomised to add placebo or 
Travatan).  This  study  was  presented  in  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Application  for  Travatan,  and 
supported the indication for concomitant therapy.  
The  CHMP  considers  that  the  second  line  indication  proposed  for  travoprost/timolol  (DuoTrav) 
restricted  to  patients  for  whom  monotherapy  such  as  beta-blockers  and  prostaglandin  analogues 
provide insufficient IOP reduction, is justified.  
The applicant was requested to comment on how prescribers would proceed with those patients with 
borderline  IOP  control  while  on  fixed  dose  combination  therapy,  i.e.  whether  to  change  to  the 
concomitantly  used  dose  combination  or  to  change  the  timing  of  administration  of  the  fixed  dose 
combination (i.e. at evening). The applicant argued that it is reasonable to believe that the long-term 
advantage of once-daily dosing in terms of compliance greatly outweigh the minimal benefits of the 
concomitantly  used  combination  on  IOP  reduction  and  therefore,  it  is  not  recommended  switching 
from a fixed combination to the concomitantly used combination, as compliance may be impaired in 
the  longer  term  and  result  in  less  than  adequate  management  of  patients’  glaucoma.  The  CHMP 
considered the applicant’s response to be acceptable. 
Furthermore the applicant does however emphasize that in a non-trial setting, compliance is known to 
be an issue when two different bottles are used concomitantly. The applicant claims that it has been 
shown  in  clinical  practice,  that  switching  from  a  concomitantly  used  combination  to  a  fixed 
combination  provided  additional  IOP  reduction  owing  to  improved  compliance.  Therefore,  it  is 
reasonable to believe that the long-term benefits of once-daily dosing in terms of compliance greatly 
outweigh the minimal advantage of the concomitantly used combination on IOP reduction.  
©EMEA 2006 
23/33  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommended doses for fixed dose combination 
Zimmerman and Kaufman originally demonstrated that a single dose of timolol 5 mg/ml lowers IOP 
for at least 24 hours. Three additional studies confirmed the 24-hour duration of action of timolol 5 
mg/ml,  and  demonstrated  similar  efficacy  between  once-daily  and  twice-daily  dosing.  Therefore  the 
applicant  argues  that,  dosing  the  travoprost/timolol  fixed  combination  twice-daily  is  unlikely  to 
provide a larger clinical effect from the timolol component. 
In  conclusion,  better  IOP-lowering  efficacy  is  observed  with  once-daily  dosing  of  a  prostaglandin 
analogue,  and  little  or  no  long-term  clinical  benefit is expected from twice- daily dosing of timolol. 
This 
the  fixed  combination 
travoprost/timolol Eye Drops, Solution. 
the  selection  of  a  once-daily  dosing  frequency  for 
justifies 
Timing of administration 
Results from two of the main efficacy studies of the fixed dose combination (i.e. Studies C-01-70 and 
C-02-41)  showed  some  advantages  in  the  mean  IOP  reduction  with  the  concomitantly  used  dose 
combination, where travoprost was given at evenings and timolol at mornings. However it is agreed 
that there are no relevant differences between the morning and evening administration and the current 
posology  recommendation  is  considered  appropriate  (i.e  once  daily,  in  the  morning  or  evening 
administered at the same time each day).  
The impact of the corneal thickness on the results of measurement of the IOP 
The clinical trials conducted during the development of the travoprost/timolol fixed combination did 
not  include  collection  of  data  on  central  corneal  thickness.  Corneal  thickness  data  were  collected 
during the clinical development of Travatan (Study C-97-71) and the results demonstrated that central 
corneal  thickness  does  not  significantly  influence  the  magnitude  of  the  IOP  response  to  either 
Travatan or timolol. The lack of exploration of the central corneal thickness impact on IOP measure in 
the fixed dose combination studies due to the previously demonstrated absence of a relevant effect of 
this parameter, corneal thickness on the IOP measure for each component given separately has been 
reasonably justified by the applicant. 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
The  clinical  development  of  travoprost/timolol  Eye  Drops  consisted  of  6  studies  (including  the  the 
crossover pharmacokinetic study C-02-35) and included a total of 1496 participants. Of these, 15 were 
healthy volunteers and 1481 were patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.  
Seven  hundred  twenty  one  patients  have  been  exposed  to  travoprost  0.004%/timolol  0.5%,  200 
patients to latanoprost 0.005%/timolol 0.5%, 313 patients to concomitant administration of Travatan + 
timolol 0.5%, 101 patients to Travatan as monotherapy, and 190 patients exposed to timolol 0.5% as 
monotherapy.  
Of the 721 patients with exposure to travoprost 0.004%/timolol 0.5%, 15 subjects participated in the 
crossover  pharmacokinetic  study  (C-02-35)  during  which  they  received  3  days  of  exposure  to  each 
treatment.  For  those  patients  participating  in  protocol  C-02-03,  all  92  patients  had  exposure  to 
travoprost  0.004%/timolol  0.5%,  with  48  having  exposure  once-daily  in  the  morning  and  44  having 
exposure  once-daily  in  the  evening  during  which  they  received  up  to  6  weeks  of  exposure.  The 
remaining  614  patients  participating  in  protocols  C-01-69,  C-01-70,  C-02-28,  and  C-02-41  had 
exposure  to  travoprost  0.004%/timolol  0.5%  in  the  morning  during  which  they  received  up  to  6 
months  of  exposure  (protocols  C-01-69,  C-01-70,  and  C-02-41:  407  patients)  or  up  to  12  months 
exposure (protocol C-02-28: 207 patients). 
•  Adverse events (AEs) 
The  overall  incidence  of  AEs  in  travoprost/timolol  treatment  group  across  individual  studies  ranged 
from  49.1%  to  69.6%  and  did  not  significantly  differ  to  that  seen  in  the  comparator  groups,  i.e. 
Travatan  plus  timolol  treatment  group  (from  48.4  to  68.4%),  latanoprost/timolol  (45.5%),  Travatan 
(52.3%) and timolol (from 48.8 to 53.3%).   
©EMEA 2006 
24/33  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ocular  hyperemia  was  most  commonly  reported  in  patients  treated  with  travoprost/timolol  (14.4%), 
Travatan  plus  timolol  (20.8%)  and  Travatan  in  monotherapy  (11.6%)  as  compared  to  those  treated 
with  timolol  (1.7%)  and  latanoprost/timolol  (4%).  Patients  treated  with  the  fixed  dose  combination 
tended  to  report  a  lower  incidence  of  hyperemia  as  compared  to  those  patients  with  concomitant 
treatment  with  Travatan  plus  timolol.  These  differences  are  not  considered  relevant,  mainly  because 
hyperemia did not lead to a high incidence of treatment discontinuation (1.9%).  
©EMEA 2006 
25/33  
 
 
 
Overall Frequency and Incidence of Adverse Events Occurring at Rates Greater 
Than or Equal to 1.0% in Open-Angle Glaucoma or Ocular Hypertension Studies 
(C-01-69, C-01-70, C-02-03, C-02-28, C-02-41) 
Trav 0.004% 
/Tim 0.5% 
N = 706 
Lat 0.005% 
/Tim 0.5% 
N = 200 
N 
%    
N 
    % 
102 
 46 
 34 
 25 
 21 
 20 
 14 
 12 
 12 
 12 
 12 
 11 
 11 
  7 
  6 
  5 
  5 
  5 
  5 
  4  
  4 
  3 
  3 
  3 
  3 
  2 
  2 
  1 
  1 
14.4 
 6.5 
 4.8 
 3.5 
 3.0 
 2.8 
 2.0 
 1.7 
 1.7 
 1.7 
 1.7 
 1.6 
 1.6 
 1.0 
 0.8 
 0.7 
 0.7 
 0.7 
 0.7 
 0.6 
 0.6 
 0.4 
 0.4 
 0.4 
 0.4 
 0.3 
 0.3 
 0.1 
 0.1 
 8 
 7 
 5 
 4 
 4 
 7 
 3 
15 
 1 
 1 
 4 
 2 
 9 
 2 
 2 
 2 
 3 
 1 
 2 
 1 
 1 
 1 
4.0 
3.5 
2.5 
2.0 
2.0 
3.5 
1.5 
7.5 
0.5 
0.5 
2.0 
1.0 
4.5 
1.0 
1.0 
1.0 
1.5 
0.5 
1.0 
0.5 
0.5 
0.5 
TRAV +  
Tim 0.5% 
N = 313 
N 
65 
31 
17 
12 
12 
13 
 4 
 2 
 8 
 7 
 6 
 6 
 8 
 7 
 2 
 4 
 3 
 2 
 4 
 2  
 2 
 1 
 1 
 4 
 2 
 2 
% 
20.8 
 9.9 
 5.4 
 3.8 
 3.8 
 4.2 
 1.3 
 0.6 
 2.6 
 2.2 
 1.9 
 1.9 
 2.6 
 2.2 
 0.6 
 1.3 
 1.0 
 0.6 
 1.3 
 0.6 
 0.6 
 0.3 
 0.3 
 1.3 
 0.6 
 0.6 
TRAVATAN 
Timolol 0.5% 
N = 86 
N 
10 
 2 
 3 
 2 
 5 
 3 
 1 
 1 
 3 
 2 
 2 
 1 
 3 
 2 
 2 
% 
11.6 
 2.3 
 3.5 
 2.3 
 5.8 
 3.5 
 1.2 
 1.2 
 3.5 
 2.3 
 2.3 
 1.2 
 3.5 
 2.3 
 2.3 
 1 
 1.2 
N = 176 
N 
% 
 3 
10 
 4 
 3 
 9 
 3 
 5 
 1 
 2 
 1 
 2 
 1 
 2 
 1 
 2 
 1 
 1 
 1 
 2 
 2 
 2 
1.7 
5.7 
2.3 
1.7 
5.1 
1.7 
2.8 
0.6 
1.1 
0.6 
1.1 
0.6 
1.1 
0.6 
1.1 
0.6 
0.6 
0.6 
1.1 
1.1 
1.1 
 1 
 1 
 1 
 1.2 
 1.2 
 1.2 
 2 
1.1 
OCULAR 
Hyperemia Eye 
Discomfort Eye 
Pruritus Eye 
Dry Eye 
Visual Acuity Dec 
Foreign Body Sensat 
Vision Blurred 
Cataract 
Keratitis 
Pain Eye 
Photophobia 
Conjunctivitis 
Hair Dis 
Staining Corneal 
Allerg React 
Cells 
Lid Dis 
Visual Field Defect 
Vitreous Dis 
Hem Subconjunct 
Vision Abnorm 
Blepharitis 
Edema Eye 
Optic Nerve Dis 
Tearing 
Eye Dis 
Vision Dec 
Hem Conjunct 
Macular Degenerat 
Corneal Abrasion 
©EMEA 2006 
26/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
    
 
    
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The above table contains related and not-related events combined. 
Data  for  the  different  safety  populations  (i.e.  overall  study  population,  open-angle  glaucoma/ocular 
hypertension  studies  population  and  PK  study  population)  classified  as  ocular  and  non-ocular  have 
been presented.  
Considering  the  open-angle  glaucoma/ocular  hypertension  studies  population  (1481  out  of  1496 
patients  and  thus  the  most  representative),  ocular  hyperemia,  discomfort  in  the  eye  and  pruritus  eye 
were  the  most  common  ocular  AEs  reported  with  incidences  of  14.4%,  6.5%  and  4.8%  in 
travoprost/timolol,  20.8%,  9.9%  and  5.4%  in  Travatan  plus  timolol,  11.6%,  2.3%  and  3.5%  in 
Travatan, 1.7%, 5.7% and 2.3% in timolol and, 4%, 3.6% and 2.5% in Latanoprost/timolol treatment 
groups,  respectively.  The  incidence  of  ocular  AEs  in  the  travoprost/timolol  treatment  group  were 
slightly lower to that seen in patients treated with Travatan plus timolol concomitantly, which suggest 
a  better  tolerance  of  the  fixed  dose  combination.  By  contrast,  Latanoprost/timolol  showed  a  lower 
incidence of these common ocular AEs as compared to travoprost/timolol, however these differences 
do not seem to be of clinical relevance since no difference in the rate of discontinuation due to AEs 
were observed.  
The  most  commonly  reported  ocular  AEs  (hyperemia,  ocular  discomfort  and  eye  pruritus)  were 
considered  related  to  the  study  drug  and  were  generally  well  tolerated  and  did  not  lead  to  a  higher 
incidence of treatment discontinuation with the exception of hyperemia (1.9% in travoprost/timolol vs 
0.0%  in  Latanoprost/timolol).  Other  treatment-related  AEs  that  occurred  with  exposure  to 
travoprost/timolol  included  hair  disorder  (changes  in  eyelash),  blurred  vision,  ocular  pain, 
photophobia and keratitis.  
Regarding the non-ocular AEs in the open-angle glaucoma/ocular hypertension population, timolol in 
monotherapy  showed  slightly  higher  incidence  of  some  systemic  adverse  events  such  as 
cardiovascular and cold syndrome, but no unexpected or abnormal rates of any AEs were seen in any 
study group. Hypertension was the most commonly reported non-ocular AE in all study groups (4.1% 
travoprost/timolol,  5.1%  Travatan  plus 
timolol  and  7% 
Latanoprost/timolol).  These  results  are  consistent  to  those  seen  in  the  overall  study  population.  No 
unexpected AEs have been reported. 
timolol,  2.3%  Travatan,  5.7% 
©EMEA 2006 
 27/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall Frequency and Incidence of Adverse Events Occurring at Rates Greater 
Than or Equal to 1.0% in Open-Angle Glaucoma or Ocular Hypertension Studies 
(C-01-69, C-01-70, C-02-03, C-02-28, C-02-41) 
Trav 0.004% 
/Tim 0.5% 
N = 706 
Lat 0.005% 
/Tim 0.5% 
N = 200 
TRAV + 
Tim 0.5% 
N = 313 
N 
% 
N 
  % 
N 
  % 
18 
17 
12 
 9 
 6 
 6 
 5 
 4 
 3 
 1 
 1 
29 
 4 
 2 
 2 
 1 
 3 
 2 
 2 
2.5 
2.4 
1.7 
1.3 
0.8 
0.8 
0.7 
0.6 
0.4 
0.1 
0.1 
4.1 
0.6 
0.3 
0.3 
0.1 
0.4 
0.3 
0.3 
 1 
 4 
 1 
 1 
 2 
 1 
 2 
14 
 1 
 2 
0.5 
2.0 
0.5 
0.5 
1.0 
0.5 
1.0 
7.0 
0.5 
1.0 
 7 
 8 
 3 
 7 
 6 
 2 
10 
 1 
 3 
2.2 
2.6 
1.0 
2.2 
1.9 
0.6 
3.2 
0.3 
1.0 
16 
 1 
5.1 
0.3 
 1 
0.3 
 2 
 2 
1.0 
1.0 
 1 
 4 
0.3 
1.3 
 3 
1.0 
TRAVATAN  
Timolol 0.5% 
N = 86    
  N = 176 
%    
N 
% 
3.5   
2.3   
2.3   
1.2 
2.3 
1.2   
1.2 
2.3   
1.2   
1.2   
1.2 
1.2 
1.2   
1.2   
1.2 
 9   
 4   
 2   
 6   
 2   
10   
 1   
 6   
 2   
5.1 
2.3 
1.1 
3.4 
1.1 
5.7 
0.6 
3.4 
1.1 
 1   
 1   
0.6 
0.6 
1.2   
 2   
1.1 
N 
3 
2 
2 
1 
2 
1 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
 4 
0.6 
 2 
1.0 
 1 
0.3 
 3   
1.7 
1 
1.2 
  NONOCULAR 
  Body As A Whole 
  Cold Synd 
  Infect 
  Pain 
  Headache 
  Pain Back 
  Surgical/Medical Proc 
  Flu Synd 
  Allergy 
  Injury Accid 
  Abscess 
  Malaise 
  Neopl 
  Cardiovascular System 
  Hypertens 
  Hypotens 
  Bradycardia 
  Coronary Art Dis 
  Migraine 
  Syncope 
  Vasc Dis 
  Digestive System 
  Diarrhea 
  Gi Dis 
  Nausea 
  Abscess Periodont 
  Dyspepsia 
  Gastritis 
  Endocrine System 
  Diabetes Mell 
  Adren Insuffic 
©EMEA 2006 
28/33
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This table contains related and not-related events combined. 
Overall, the incidence of treatment related non-ocular AE in the travoprost/timolol treatment groups was 
lower  than  that  seen  in  the  Travatan  plus  timolol  and  the  timolol  treatment  groups.  There  was  no 
unexpected  treatment  related  non-ocular  AEs  in  any  study  group.  A  comparison  of  the  common  AEs 
related  to  beta-blocking  therapy  showed  no  major  differences  between  treatments  groups  containing 
timolol. 
Tabular data on the severity of each ocular and non-ocular AE reported by treatment group show that 
AEs tended to be generally mild in severity, with very few severe AEs.  
Overall frequency and Incidence of Patients with Adverse Events 
(C-01-69, C-01-70, C-02-03. C-02-28, C-02-41) 
Treatment 
Travoprost 40 
µg/ml 
/Timolol 5 mg/ml 
N=706 
N 
% 
281 
(39.8) 
208 
(29.5) 
This table inclues both related and non-related events combined 
Latanoprost 50 
µg/ml 
/Timolol 5 mg/ml 
N=200 
N 
% 
67 
(33.5) 
46 
(23.0) 
Ocular 
Nonocular 
TRAVATAN + 
Timolol 5 
mg/ml 
N=313 
N 
% 
136 
(43.5) 
103 
(32.9) 
TRAVATAN 
Timolol 5 
mg/ml 
N=86 
N 
% 
32 
(37.2) 
26 
(30.2) 
N=176 
N 
% 
48 
(27.3) 
64 
(36.4) 
Frequency and Incidence of Adverse Events by Overall Severity 
(C-01-69, C-01-70, C-02-03, C-02-28, C-02-41) 
Treatment 
Severity 
Ocular 
Nonocular 
Travoprost 40 µg/ml 
/Timolol 5 mg/ml 
N=706 
Mild  Mod 
N 
  N 
(%) 
47 
(6.7) 
93 
(13.2) 
(%) 
226 
(32.0) 
91 
(12.9) 
Severe 
  N 
  (%) 
8 
(1.1) 
 24 
(3.4) 
Latanoprost 50 µg/ml 
/Timolol 5 mg/ml 
N=200 
Mild  Mod 
  N 
  N 
  (%) 
23 
(11.5) 
  20 
(10.0) 
(%) 
41 
(20.5) 
20 
(10.0) 
Severe 
  N 
(%) 
  3 
(1.5) 
6
   (3.0) 
Mod – Moderate 
This table includes both related and non-related events combined 
TRAVATAN + 
 Timolol 5 mg/ml 
N=313 
TRAVATAN 
Timolol 5 mg/ml 
N=86 
N=176 
Mild  Mod 
  N 
 N  
 (%) 
(%) 
119  16 
(38.0) 
53 
(16.9) 
(5.1) 
40 
(12.8) 
Severe 
N 
(%) 
  1 
(0.3) 
 10 
(3.2) 
Mild  Mod 
  N 
 N  
 (%) 
4 
(4.7) 
9 
(10.5) 
(%) 
28 
(32.6) 
16 
(18.6) 
Severe 
N 
 (%) 
  - 
  1 
(1.2) 
Mild  Mod 
  N 
 N  
 (%) 
6 
(3.4) 
22 
(12.5) 
(%) 
42 
(23.9) 
37 
(21.0) 
Severe 
N 
 (%) 
  - 
  5 
(2.8) 
No  safety  concerns  were  identified  based  upon  an  analysis  of  changes  from  baseline  in  ophthalmic 
parameters  (visual  acuity,  cornea,  iris/anterior  chamber,  lens,  aqueous  flare,  and  inflammatory  cells, 
fundus parameters, cup/disc ratio, visual field and iris, eyelash, and eyelid photography.   
An  analysis  of  changes  in  cardiovascular  parameters  (pulse  rate,  systolic  blood  pressure  and  diastolic 
blood  pressure)  has  been  performed,  the  results  of  which  are  reassuring  with  no  new  or  unexpected 
safety  concerns.  Five  clinically  relevant,  treatment-related  changes  from  baseline  in  cardiovascular 
parameters  (1  occurrence  of  bradycardia,  1  occurrence  of  hypotension,  and  3  occurrences  of 
hypertension)  were  identified  in  patients  with  exposure  to  travoprost  0.004%/timolol  0.5%.  All 
occurrences were mild in intensity, resolved without or were continuing with or without treatment, and 
did  not  interrupt  continuing  participation  in  the  study  with  1  exception  (due  to  an  occurrence  of 
hypertension). 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
©EMEA 2006 
29/33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
There were three deaths during the clinical studies of travoprost/timolol; all of them considered not to be 
related to therapy with study drug (i.e. peritonitis and cholecystitic, myocardial infarction and allergic 
reaction to anesthesia).  
Fifty two patients (3.5%) experienced other non-fatal serious AEs. Of these, 22 (1.5%) patients were in 
the travoprost/timolol treatment group, 13 (0.9%) in the Latanoprost/timolol treatment group, 12 (0.8%) 
in patients treated with Travatan plus timolol, 2 (0.13%) in patients treated with Travatan and 3 (0.2%) 
in  the  group  of  patients  treated  with  timolol.  Five  out  of  the  52  patients  resulted  in  treatment 
discontinuation from study participation and none of them occurred in the travoprost/timolol treatment 
group 
•  Laboratory findings 
No laboratory parameters were evaluated in the clinical trials involving travoprost/timolol Eye Drops. 
•  Safety in special populations 
No  safety  concerns  were  identified  based  upon  a  review  of  ocular  and  nonocular  adverse  events  by 
intrinsic  factors,  which  included  age,  gender,  race,  iris  colour,  and  the  time  of  onset  of  the  adverse 
event.  
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No safety concerns were identified based upon a review of ocular and nonocular adverse events by 
intrinsic factors, which included concomitant diseases and concomitant medications. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In  total,  130  patients  across  all  treatment  groups  discontinued patient participation in the Open-Angle 
Glaucoma or Ocular Hypertension studies (C-01-69, C-01-70, C-02-03, C-02-28, and C-02-41), which 
included 64 patients with exposure to travoprost 40 µg/ml / timolol 5 mg/ml. 
Frequency and Incidence of Study Discontinuation – Open-Angle Glaucoma or Ocular 
Hypertension Studies 
(C-01-69, C-01-70, C-02-03, C-02-28, C-02-41) 
Treatment  
Overall  
Lack  
Overall 
(N=1481) 
Travoprost 40 µg/ml 
/Timolol 5 mg/ml 
(N=706) 
Latanoprost 50 µg/ml 
/Timolol 5 mg/ml 
(N=200) 
TRAVATAN + 
Timolol 5 mg/ml 
(N=313) 
TRAVATAN  
(N=86) 
Timolol 5 mg/ml 
(N=176) 
130 
(8.8%) 
64 
(9.1%) 
of IOP Control  
11 
(0.7%) 
3 
(0.4%) 
18 
(9.0%) 
3 
(1.5%) 
27 
(8.6%) 
0 
(0%) 
11 
(12.8%) 
10 
(5.7%) 
1 
(1.2%) 
4 
(2.3%) 
Adverse 
Events  
72 
(4.9%) 
40 
(5.7%) 
10 
(5.0%) 
18 
(5.8%) 
2 
(2.3%) 
2 
(1.1%) 
Patient 
Decision 
21 
(1.4%) 
7 
(1.0%) 
Lost to  
Follow Up  
8 
(0.5%) 
6 
(0.8%) 
4 
(2.0%) 
4 
(1.3%) 
3 
(3.5%) 
3 
(1.7%) 
0 
(0%) 
0 
(0%) 
2 
(2.3%) 
0 
(0%) 
Other 
18 
(1.2%) 
8 
(1.1%) 
1 
(0.5%) 
5 
(1.6%) 
3 
(3.5%) 
1 
(0.6%) 
The  data  provided  do  not  suggest  any  unexpected  finding  based  upon  a  review  of  the  reasons  for 
discontinuation across treatment groups. 
•  Post marketing experience 
©EMEA 2006 
30/33  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  review  of  the  postmarketing  experience  with  each  individual  component  of  the  fixed  dose 
combination  of  travoprost/timolol  has  been  performed.  The  data  provided  confirm  that  Travatan  and 
timolol are safe in the treatment of open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Travoprost/timolol Eye Drops administered once-daily is safe and well-tolerated in patients with open-
angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension based upon an overall review of adverse events which includes 
an assessment of seriousness (serious/non-serious), treatment relatedness, most common events and rate 
of discontinuation due to adverse events.  
the  combination  product 
A  similar  safety  profile  was  observed  comparing 
(travoprost/timolol  Eye  Drops)  to  concomitant  therapy  with  the  individual  components  (Travatan  + 
timolol 5 mg/ml) or monotherapy with each component (Travatan; timolol 5 mg/ml).  
therapy  with 
the  safety  profiles  of 
 No  clinically  relevant  differences  were  observed  when  comparing 
travoprost/timolol Eye Drops and latanoprost/timolol Eye Drops in patients with open angle glaucoma 
or ocular hypertension having up to 12 months of exposure to study drug. 
Overall travoprost/timolol Eye Drops administered once-daily is safe and well-tolerated in patients with 
open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension based the assessment of adverse events.  
5. 
  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
An  extensive  description  of  the  pharmacovigilance  system  was  provided.  The  applicant  argued  that 
there  is  an  extensive  pharmacovigilance  plan  for  Travatan,  mainly  focusing  on  those  specific  AEs  of 
prostaglandin  analogues  such  as  iris  pigmentation,  and  thus,  it  was  considered  that  new  studies  for 
DuoTrav were not deemed necessary. However, the implications of any relevant safety information that 
could change the safety profile of Travatan should also be discussed for DuoTrav. 
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan. 
Travatan  has  been  authorized  in  similar  ophthalmic  formulation  for  over  4  years  and  timolol  in  an 
ophthalmic formulation for more than 20 years on a global basis.   
The  Risk  Management  Plan  did  not  identify  any  specific  safety  issues  relating  to  the  use  of  the 
combined product compared to the use of the individual components. 
6. 
  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The pharmacology of both agents travoprost and timolol are well known.  Consequently no new non-
clinical  ocular  or  systemic  pharmacology  studies  were  conducted  on  the  travoprost/timolol  fixed 
combination.  The  non-clinical  pharmacology  conducted  on  travoprost  to  support  the  Marketing 
Authorisation  for  Travatan  and  selected  reviews  of  the  timolol  scientific  and  medical  literature  have 
been presented to support the current Marketing Authorisation Application.  
©EMEA 2006 
31/33  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparison  of  the  data  from  individual  and  concomitant  administration  of  travoprost  and  timolol 
showed similar pharmacokinetics for both analytes, demonstrating no pharmacokinetic interactions for 
travoprost and timolol administered concomitantly by the topical ocular route.  
The  pharmaco-toxicological  profiles  of  the  individual  active  substances,  travoprost  and  timolol,  have 
been extensively investigated. On the basis of the available results provided by the applicant, it can be 
concluded that DuoTrav (travoprost/timolol) is well tolerated.  
Efficacy 
The  claimed  indication  is  restricted  to  patients  for  whom  other  therapies  provide  insufficient  IOP 
reduction, which is considered to be justified by the current clinical practice that recommends starting 
with  monotherapy  at  maximum  doses  and  to  switch  to  combined  therapy  as  a  second  step  in  those 
patients with insufficient control with monotherapy.  
Patients included in the clinical development programme for the fixed dose combination, although were 
previously treated with different IOP lowering agents, were not insufficiently responsive or intolerant to 
these therapies.  
The  restriction  of  the  indication  to  patients  with  insufficient  response  to  monotherapy  such  as  beta-
blockers  or  prostaglandin  analogues,  is  based  on  the  fact  that  the  IOP  lowering  benefit  of  the 
combination  therapy  has  only  been  convincingly  demonstrated  in  Study  C-97-73  (submitted  in  the 
Marketing Authorisation Application for Travatan), in which patients with insufficient response while 
on timolol therapy were randomised to add placebo or Travatan.  
Therefore, the wording agreed by the CHMP is: “Decrease of intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with 
open-angle glaucoma and ocular hypertension who are insufficiently responsive to topical beta-blockers 
or prostaglandin analogues (see Section 5.1)”. 
Safety 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been reviewed and are 
summarised in the Clinical safety section.  
•  User consultation 
A  user  testing  with  adults  respondents  in  the  age  range  for  which  Avantra  (the  previously  proposed 
trade name for DuoTrav) might be prescribed was performed by the applicant. The main interview took 
place  in  September  2005.  Ten  full  interviews  were  carried  out.  There  was a pilot interview and some 
amendments to the leaflet that were agreed by the applicant.  The results showed that the current user 
leaflet was successful. However, the applicant considers that some minor areas could be improved such 
as  to:  clarify  the  pictures,  make  actionable  advice  about  side  effects  more  prominent  and  modify  the 
bolding  within  the  ‘Take  Special  Care’  section.  Further  modifications  of  the  name  of  the  medicinal 
product were suggested by the applicant, which were considered to be acceptable. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
The existence of a fixed dose combination of travoprost and timolol is considered justified according to 
the  Note  for  Guidance  on  Fixed  Combination  Medicinal  Products  (CPMP/EWP/240/95)  based  on  the 
simplification of therapy. Compliance with treatment, which is a known factor of possible improvement 
in IOP control, further supports this fixed-dose combination. 
©EMEA 2006 
32/33  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
The benefit of the concomitant administration of Travatan plus timolol was demonstrated at the time of 
the granting the marketing authorisation for Travatan. The fixed dose combination of travoprost/timolol 
Eye Drops has now demonstrated to produce some greater mean IOP reductions than those produced by 
either  Travatan  or  timolol  alone.  More  relevant  is  the  non-inferiority  of  the  fixed  dose  combination 
compared  to  the  concomitantly  used  dose  combination  of  Travatan  plus  timolol,  which  has  been 
convincingly  demonstrated,  as  well  as  the  non-inferiority  with  the  currently  marketed  fixed  dose 
combination of a prostaglandin analogue latanoprost and timolol.  Therefore, the efficacy as well as the 
safety  and  tolerance  of  the  fixed  dose  combination  of  travoprost/timolol  eye  drops  solution  known  as 
DuoTrav is considered to be adequately demonstrated.  
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of DuoTrav in the treatment of intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with 
open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of 
the marketing authorisation. 
©EMEA 2006 
33/33  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
