EMA/86864/2023  
EMEA/H/C/004390 
Dupixent (dupilumab) 
An overview of Dupixent and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Dupixent and what is it used for? 
Dupixent is a medicine used to treat:  
•  moderate to severe atopic dermatitis (also known as atopic eczema, when the skin is itchy, red 
and dry) in patients aged 12 years and over when treatments applied to the skin are not sufficient 
or appropriate. Patients from 6 months up to 12 years of age can also be given the medicine if 
their condition is severe. 
• 
• 
severe asthma in patients aged 6 years and over, whose asthma is not properly controlled by 
appropriate combination therapy (corticosteroids taken by inhalation plus another medicine used 
for the prevention of asthma). Dupixent is added to maintenance treatment and is only for use in 
patients with a type of inflammation of the airways called ‘type 2 inflammation’.  
inflammation of the nose and sinuses together with growths (polyps) obstructing the airways in the 
nose (chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis). It is used in adults added to local treatment with 
corticosteroids when other treatments have not worked well enough. 
•  moderate-to-severe prurigo nodularis (a long-term skin disease with a rash causing lumps with 
intense itching) in adults. It is used with or without topical (applied to the skin) corticosteroids. 
• 
eosinophilic oesophagitis (an allergic condition of the food pipe) in adults and children above 12 
years of age who cannot take conventional treatment or for whom it is not working. 
Dupixent contains the active substance dupilumab. 
How is Dupixent used? 
Dupixent is available as pre-filled pens or syringes of various strengths containing dupilumab in a 
solution for injection under the skin, usually in the thigh or belly. Higher doses are given as 2 injections 
in 2 different sites. The dose depends on the patient’s age and weight, and the condition being treated. 
Dupixent can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor who 
has experience in the diagnosis and treatment of the conditions Dupixent is used to treat. Patients or 
their carers may inject the medicine themselves if their doctor or nurse considers it appropriate and 
once they have been trained to do so. The medicine is for long-term use and the need to continue 
taking the medicine should be assessed by the doctor at least yearly. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Dupilumab can be used with or without topical corticosteroids. 
For more information about using Dupixent, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Dupixent work? 
Patients with atopic dermatitis, some types of asthma, chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis, 
prurigo nodularis and eosinophilic oesophagitis produce high levels of proteins called interleukin 4 and 
interleukin 13 (IL-4 and IL-13), which can cause inflammation of the skin,airways and oesophagus 
leading to the symptoms of these diseases. The active substance in Dupixent, dupilumab, is a 
monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) designed to block receptors (targets) for IL-4 and IL-13. By 
blocking the receptors, dupilumab prevents IL-4 and IL-13 from working and relieves disease 
symptoms. 
What benefits of Dupixent have been shown in studies? 
Atopic dermatitis 
Dupixent was more effective than placebo (a dummy treatment) at reducing the extent and severity of 
atopic dermatitis in 3 main studies in adults with moderate to severe disease. In the first study, which 
involved 740 patients, participants were given Dupixent or placebo, both in combination with a topical 
corticosteroid (a medicine for inflammation applied to the skin). Dupixent or placebo was used on its 
own in the other two studies involving a total of 1,379 patients.  
After 16 weeks of treatment, 39% of patients treated with Dupixent every two weeks in the first study 
showed clearing or almost clearing of their atopic dermatitis compared with 12% of patients on 
placebo. Taking the results of the other two studies together, 37% of patients treated with Dupixent 
every two weeks had clearing or almost clearing of their atopic dermatitis compared with 9% of 
patients on placebo. 
A study was also carried out in 251 adolescents aged from 12 to less than 18 years with moderate to 
severe atopic dermatitis. In this study, after 16 weeks atopic dermatitis had cleared up or almost 
cleared up in around 24% of those given Dupixent every 2 weeks compared with around 2% of those 
given placebo. 
A further study looked at 367 children between 6 and 12 years of age with severe atopic dermatitis in 
whom medicines applied to the skin had proved insufficient or were unsuitable. After 16 weeks, 
measures of severity showed that atopic dermatitis had cleared up or almost cleared up in around 33% 
of those given Dupixent with a topical corticosteroid compared with around 11% of those given placebo 
with a corticosteroid. 
In addition, a study involving children between 6 months and less than 6 years of age with moderate 
to severe dermatitis showed that a 16-week treatment with Dupixent and a topical corticosteroid led to 
skin clearing in 28% of patients (23 out of 83 patients) compared with 4% of patients (3 out of 79 
patients) given placebo and a topical corticosteroid. Overall 53% of patients (44 out of 83 patients) 
treated with Dupixent and a corticosteroid had an improvement in their skin of at least 75% compared 
with at least 11% (8 out of 11 patients) with placebo and a corticosteroid. 
Dupixent (dupilumab)  
EMA/86864/2023  
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
 
Asthma 
Dupixent was shown to reduce the number of exacerbations (flare-ups) of asthma during treatment in 
2 main studies involving patients with asthma that was not adequately controlled by a combination of 
high-dose inhaled corticosteroids and other medicines. In the first study, involving 1,902 patients aged 
12 years or above, the number of severe flare-ups per year was 0.46 in patients taking 200 mg 
Dupixent and 0.52 in patients taking 300 mg Dupixent, compared with 0.87 or 0.97 in patients given 
placebo. After 12 weeks of treatment, Dupixent improved patients’ FEV1 (the maximum volume of air a 
person can breathe out in one second) by 320 ml (for 200 mg Dupixent) or 340 ml (for 300 mg 
Dupixent) compared with 180 ml and 210 ml for placebo. 
The second study, involving 210 patients taking corticosteroids by mouth for their asthma, showed 
that in 70% of patients given Dupixent their condition improved to the extent that they could reduce 
their corticosteroid dose compared with 42% of those given placebo. 
A subsequent third study involved 408 children 6 to 11 years of age with severe asthma that was not 
adequately controlled by a combination of medium-to-high-dose inhaled corticosteroids and other 
medicines. It showed that the number of severe flare-ups of asthma per year was 0.31 in those with 
type 2 inflammation given Dupixent compared with 0.75 in similar children given a dummy treatment. 
After 12 weeks of treatment Dupixent improved patients’ predicted FEV1 by 10.5% compared with 
5.3% in those given placebo. 
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis 
Adding Dupixent to treatment with a corticosteroid nasal spray has been shown to improve symptoms 
of the condition more than placebo in 2 main studies as measured by scoring systems for the extent of 
nasal polyps and patients’ perception of nasal congestion. In the first study, involving 276 adults, after 
around 6 months nasal polyp score fell by 1.89 with Dupixent and increased by 0.17 with placebo. 
Similarly, patients’ score for nasal congestion fell by 1.34 with Dupixent versus 0.45 with placebo. In 
the second study, involving 448 adults, the polyp score fell by 1.71 with Dupixent and increased by 
0.10 with placebo, and the congestion score fell by 1.25 versus 0.38, respectively. 
Prurigo nodularis 
Dupixent was more effective than placebo at reducing the extent and severity of itching caused by 
prurigo nodularis in 2 main studies involving a total of 311 adults with moderate to severe disease. The 
studies measured improvements in symptoms of itching using the Worst Itch Numeric Rating Scale 
(WI-NRS). 
After 24 weeks of treatment, 59% of patients treated with Dupixent had a significant improvement in 
their symptoms (as measured by a reduction of at least 4 points in the WI-NRS) compared with 19% 
of patients on placebo.   
Eosinophilic oesophagitis 
In a study of 321 patients with eosinophilic oesophagitis, Dupixent was more effective than placebo in 
reducing oesophageal inflammation. In this study, more patients treated with Dupixent treatment had 
low levels of eosinophils in their blood (a sign of reduced inflammation) compared with patients who 
had placebo. Patients treated with Dupixent treatment also had greater improvements in their 
symptom scores for swallowing difficulties. 
Dupixent (dupilumab)  
EMA/86864/2023  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
What are the risks associated with Dupixent? 
The most common side effects with Dupixent (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are injection-site 
reactions (such as redness, swelling including due to fluid build-up, itching and pain), conjunctivitis 
(redness and discomfort in the eye) including conjunctivitis due to allergy, joint pain, cold sores and 
increased blood levels of a type of white blood cell called eosinophils. In eosinophilia oesophagitis 
patients also had injection site bruising.  
There have been very rare cases of serum sickness (allergy to the proteins in the medicine) and serum 
sickness-like reactions, anaphylaxis (sudden, severe allergic reactions) and ulcerative keratitis 
(inflammation and damage to the clear layer at the front of the eye). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Dupixent, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Dupixent authorised in the EU? 
Dupixent has been shown to reduce the extent and severity of atopic dermatitis and prurigo nodularis 
in patients with moderate to severe disease, for whom available therapies are limited. Similarly, in 
chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis, Dupixent produced clinically meaningful improvements in 
symptoms. In the treatment of type 2 inflammatory asthma, Dupixent has been shown to reduce the 
number of asthma flare-ups and the need for oral corticosteroid treatment. In the treatment of 
eosinophilic oesophagitis, Dupixent has been shown to reduce eosinophilic inflammation. Regarding 
safety, Dupixent’s side effects are generally mild and manageable. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Dupixent’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Dupixent? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Dupixent have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Dupixent are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Dupixent are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Dupixent 
Dupixent received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 27 September 2017. 
Further information on Dupixent can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/dupixent.  
This overview was last updated in 02-2023.  
Dupixent (dupilumab)  
EMA/86864/2023  
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
