Summary of risk management plan for DUPIXENT (Dupilumab) 
This is a summary of the RMP for DUPIXENT. The RMP details important risks of DUPIXENT, 
how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained about DUPIXENT’s 
risks and uncertainties (missing information).  
DUPIXENT’s SmPC and its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals 
and patients on how DUPIXENT should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for DUPIXENT should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of DUPIXENT’s 
RMP.  
I.  
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR  
DUPIXENT is authorized for: 
Atopic dermatitis  
Adults and adolescents 
DUPIXENT is indicated for the treatment of moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis (AD) in adults 
and adolescents 12 years and older who are candidates for systemic therapy. 
Children 6 months to 11 years of age 
DUPIXENT is indicated for the treatment of severe AD in children 6 months to 11 years old who 
are candidates for systemic therapy. 
Asthma 
Adults and adolescents 
DUPIXENT is indicated in adults and adolescents 12 years and older as add-on maintenance 
treatment for severe asthma with type 2 inflammation characterized by raised blood eosinophils 
and/or raised fraction of exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO), see section 5.1, who are inadequately 
controlled with high dose inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) plus another medicinal product for 
maintenance treatment.  
Children 6 to 11 years of age  
DUPIXENT is indicated in children 6 to 11 years old as add-on maintenance treatment for severe 
asthma with type 2 inflammation characterized by raised blood eosinophils and/or raised fraction of 
exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO), see section 5.1, who are inadequately controlled with medium to high 
dose inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) plus another medicinal product for maintenance treatment.  
Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis  
DUPIXENT is indicated as an add-on therapy with intranasal corticosteroids for the treatment of 
adults with severe chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis (CRSwNP) for whom therapy with 
systemic corticosteroids (SCSs) and/or surgery do not provide adequate disease control. 
Prurigo Nodularis (PN): 
DUPIXENT is indicated for the treatment of adults with moderate to severe prurigo nodularis (PN) 
who are candidates for systemic therapy.  
Eosinophilic Esophagitis (EoE): 
DUPIXENT is indicated for the treatment of eosinophilic esophagitis in adults and 
adolescents 12 years and older, weighing at least 40 kg, who are inadequately controlled by, are 
intolerant to, or who are not candidates for conventional medicinal therapy (see section 5.1). 
See SmPC for the full indication.  
It contains dupilumab as the active substance and it is given by subcutaneous (SC) injection.  
Further information about the evaluation of DUPIXENT’s benefits can be found in DUPIXENT’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines 
Agency (EMA) website, under the medicine’s webpage:  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/dupixent 
II. 
  RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO MINIMIZE OR 
FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS  
Important risks of DUPIXENT, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about DUPIXENT’s risks, are outlined in the next sections.  
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;  
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;  
•  The authorized pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly;  
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.  
•  Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.  
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed, including periodic safety update report (PSUR) so that immediate action can be 
taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of DUPIXENT is not yet available, it is listed 
under “missing information” outlined in the next section. 
 
II.A.  List of important risks and missing information  
Important risks of DUPIXENT are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of DUPIXENT. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has 
not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on 
the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (eg, on the 
long-term use of the medicine);  
Table 1   List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Systemic hypersensitivity (including events associated with immunogenicity)  
Conjunctivitis and keratitis related events in AD patients  
Important potential risk 
None 
Missing information 
AD: Atopic Dermatitis. 
Use in pregnant and lactating women  
Long-term safety in adult and paediatric patients 
II.B.  Summary of important risks  
Table 2 - Important identified risk with corresponding risk minimization activities: Systemic 
hypersensitivity (including events associated with immunogenicity)  
Important identified risk: Systemic hypersensitivity (including events associated with 
immunogenicity) 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine  
Risk factors and risk groups  
Clinical trial data, literature and postmarketing pharmacovigilance. 
All patients are at risk of developing systemic hypersensitivity reactions. Risk factors for 
serum sickness include patient age, dose, duration and the heterologous protein involved in 
medication. Serum sickness-like reactions are more common in children. Intermittent 
exposure to a heterologous protein is associated with higher rates of serum sickness-like 
reactions compared with continuous exposure. a, b Risk factors for anaphylaxis include 
known hypersensitivity to dupilumab or the excipients in the formulation. 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures:  
•  SmPC sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8  
•  PIL sections 2 and 4  
•  Prescription only medicine  
Additional risk minimization measures:  
None  
a  Black RE, Gunn RA. Hypersensitivity reactions associated with botulinal antitoxin. Am J Med. 1980 Oct;69(4):567-70. doi: 
10.1016/0002-9343(80)90469-6. 
b  Kugathasan S, Levy MB, Saeian K, Vasilopoulos S, Kim JR, Prajapati O, et al. Infliximab retreatment in adults and children with 
Crohn's disease: risk factors for the development of delayed severe systemic reaction. Am J Gastroenterol. 2002 Jun;97(6):1408-14. 
doi: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2002.05784.x. 
PIL: Patient Information Leaflet; SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics.  
 Table 3   Important identified risk with corresponding risk minimization activities and additional 
pharmacovigilance activities: Conjunctivitis and keratitis related events in AD patients  
Important identified risk: Conjunctivitis and keratitis related events in AD patients 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine  
Conjunctivitis and keratitis related events have been reported in dupilumab clinical 
trials, the postmarketing setting and the literature, predominantly in AD patients.  
Important identified risk: Conjunctivitis and keratitis related events in AD patients 
Risk factors and risk groups  
Conjunctivitis and keratitis related events are considered ADRs for dupilumab 
(SmPC section 4.8 and Package Leaflet section 4). 
Conjunctivitis: As per Triester AD et al, severe conjunctivitis was more likely to 
develop in patients with more severe baseline AD and an increased atopic 
phenotype. a Akinlade B et al, stated that among AD patients, the increased 
incidence of conjunctivitis was associated with higher AD severity at baseline and 
prior history of conjunctivitis. b 
Keratitis/ulcerative keratitis: A review of the literature found a list of risk factors for 
keratitis. Chief amongst these are: autoimmune conditions such as rheumatoid 
arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosous and inflammatory bowel disease, c, d 
contact lenses; e herpes simplex and zoster infections; f, g and severity of AD. h 
Autoimmune conditions are overrepresented in the AD population and thus present 
an important risk factor for keratitis i, j, k Patients with AD are susceptible to eczema 
herpeticum, which is caused by extensive infection of the skin by herpes virus. This 
can lead to keratoconjunctivitis. l Lin TY et al stated that risk factors for 
development of microbial keratitis include contact lens wear as the most common 
predisposing factors, followed by ocular and systemic diseases, trauma and ocular 
surgery. m 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures:  
•  SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.8  
•  PIL sections 2 and 4  
•  Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimization measures:  
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Ophthalmology sub-study in LTS14041 (R668-AD-1225) 
a  Treister AD, Kraff-Cooper C, Lio PA. Risk factors for dupilumab-associated conjunctivitis in patients with atopic dermatitis. JAMA 
Dermatol. 2018 Oct 1;154(10):1208-11. doi: 10.1001/jamadermatol.2018.2690. 
b  Akinlade B, Guttman-Yassky E, de Bruin-Weller M, Simpson EL, Blauvelt A, Cork MJ, et al. Conjunctivitis in dupilumab clinical trials. 
Br J Dermatol. 2019 Sep;181(3):459-73. doi: 10.1111/bjd.17869. 
c  Patel SJ, Lundy DC. Ocular manifestations of autoimmune disease. Am Fam Physician. 2002 Sep 15;66(6):991-8. 
d  Mady R, Grover W, Butrus S. Ocular complications of inflammatory bowel disease. ScientificWorldJournal. 2015;2015(438402):1-5. 
doi: 10.1155/2015/438402. 
e  Collier SA, Gronostaj MP, MacGurn AK, Cope JR, Awsumb KL, Yoder JS, et al. Estimated burden of keratitis--United States, 2010. 
MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2014 Nov 14;63(45):1027-30. 
f  Farooq AV, Shukla D. Herpes simplex epithelial and stromal keratitis: an epidemiologic update. Surv Ophthalmol. 2012 
Sep;57(5):448-62. doi: 10.1016/j.survophthal.2012.01.005. 
g  Shaikh S, Ta CN. Evaluation and management of herpes zoster ophthalmicus. Am Fam Physician. 2002 Nov 1;66(9):1723-30. 
h  Thyssen JP, Toft PB, Halling-Overgaard AS, Gislason GH, Skov L, Egeberg A. Incidence, prevalence, and risk of selected ocular 
disease in adults with atopic dermatitis. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2017 Aug;77(2):280-6.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jaad.2017.03.003. 
i  Andersen YM, Egeberg A, Gislason GH, Skov L, Thyssen JP. Autoimmune diseases in adults with atopic dermatitis. J Am Acad 
Dermatol. 2017 Feb;76(2):274-80.e1. 
j  Narla S, Silverberg JI. Association between atopic dermatitis and autoimmune disorders in US adults and children: A cross-sectional 
study. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2019 Feb;80(2):382-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jaad.2018.09.025. 
k  Schmitt J, Schwarz K, Baurecht H, Hotze M, Folster-Holst R, Rodriguez E, et al. Atopic dermatitis is associated with an increased 
risk for rheumatoid arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease, and a decreased risk for type 1 diabetes. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2016 
Jan;137(1):130-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jaci.2015.06.029. 
l  Beck LA, Boguniewicz M, Hata T, Schneider LC, Hanifin J, Gallo R, et al. Phenotype of atopic dermatitis subjects with a history of 
eczema herpeticum. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2009 Aug;124(2):260-9, 269.e1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jaci.2009.05.020. 
m  Lin TY, Yeh LK, Ma DH, Chen PY, Lin HC, Sun CC, et al. Risk Factors and Microbiological Features of Patients Hospitalized for 
Microbial Keratitis: A 10-Year Study in a Referral Center in Taiwan. Medicine (Baltimore). 2015 Oct;94(43):e1905. doi: 
10.1097/MD.0000000000001905. 
AD: Atopic Dermatitis; ADR: Adverse Drug Reaction; PIL: Patient Information Leaflet; SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics. 
 Table 4   Missing information with corresponding risk minimization activities and additional 
pharmacovigilance activities: Use in pregnant and lactating women  
Missing information: Use in pregnant and lactating women 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures:  
•  SmPC sections 4.6 and 5.3  
•  PIL section 2  
•  Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimization measures:  
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Pregnancy registry study (R668-AD-1639),  
Pregnancy Outcomes Database Study (R668-AD-1760) in AD patients 
AD: Atopic Dermatitis; PIL: Patient Information Leaflet; SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics.  
 Table 5   Missing information with corresponding risk minimization activities and additional 
pharmacovigilance activities: Long-term safety in adult and paediatric patients  
Missing information: Long-term safety 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures:  
Prescription only medicine  
Additional risk minimization measures:  
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Studies LTS14041 (R668-AD-1225), LTS1434 (R668-AD-1434), LTS14424, and 
PEDISTAD registry-based study (study code pending protocol development) 
II.C.  Post-authorization development plan  
II.C.1 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization  
There are no studies which are conditions of the MA or specific obligation of DUPIXENT.  
II.C.2 
Other studies in post-authorization development plan  
Table 6 - Other studies in post-authorization development plan  
Pregnancy registry (R668-AD-1639) (Cat. 3) 
Purpose of the study:  
To evaluate the effect of exposure to dupilumab on pregnancy and infant outcomes.  
The study initially included exposed and unexposed cohorts of women with moderate-to-severe AD. The study was 
amended to include separate exposed and unexposed cohorts of women with asthma. Although there is no specific 
concern surrounding differential risks of dupilumab exposure for pregnant women with asthma from the clinical trials, the 
effect of dupilumab on pregnancy outcomes for women with asthma is still considered missing information. Further, the risk 
of adverse pregnancy outcomes is known to be greater for women with asthma from the general population than for other 
populations of women. Therefore, it is considered to be of importance to study these outcomes separately to better identify 
risks that may be associated with dupilumab exposure and asthma. Data from other indications (including CRSwNP, EoE, 
and PN) will be collected in the “exposure series.  
 
Pregnancy Outcomes Database Study (R668-AD-1760) (Cat. 3) 
Purpose of the study:  
To measure the prevalence of adverse pregnancy and infant outcomes in a cohort of women with AD exposed to 
dupilumab during pregnancy and compare these to each of the two comparator cohorts of pregnant women with AD; one 
exposed to other systemic medications or phototherapy used for the treatment of AD (never exposed to dupilumab) and 
the other comprised of women who were not exposed to these treatments during pregnancy. 
A single-arm extension study of dupilumab in patients with AD who participated in previous 
dupilumab clinical trials; including a sub study consisting of standardized ophthalmology 
assessments (Phase IV) (R668-AD-1225) (LTS14041) (Cat. 3) 
Purpose of the study:  
To assess the long-term safety, efficacy, PK, and immunogenicity of REGN668 in adult patients with moderate-to-severe 
AD.  
An open-label extension study to assess the long-term safety of dupilumab in 
patients ≥6 months to <18 years of age with AD (Phase III) (LTS1434) (R668-AD-1434) (Cat. 3) 
Purpose of the study:  
To assess the long-term safety of dupilumab in pediatric patients with AD. 
An open-label study to evaluate the long-term safety and tolerability of dupilumab in pediatric 
patients with asthma who participated in a previous dupilumab asthma clinical study 
(Phase III) (LTS14424) (Cat. 3) 
Purpose of the study:  
To assess the long-term safety, tolerability and efficacy of dupilumab in pediatric patients with asthma. 
A registry-based study to evaluate the long-term safety of dupilumab in children 
aged ≥6 months to <6 years with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis (AD) (Cat. 3) 
Purpose of the study:  
•  To describe the baseline clinical and demographic characteristics of pediatric patients with moderate-to-severe AD. 
•  To evaluate the long-term safety of dupilumab in patients with moderate-to-severe AD aged ≥6 months to <6 years. 
AD: Atopic Dermatitis; CRSwNP: Chronic Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyposis; EoE: Eosinophilic Esophagitis; PK: Pharmacokinetic; 
PN: Prurigo Nodularis. 
 
