ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Dynastat 40 mg powder for solution for injection 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each vial contains 40 mg parecoxib (as 42.36 mg parecoxib sodium). After reconstitution, the 
concentration of parecoxib is 20 mg/ml. Each 2 ml of reconstituted powder contains 40 mg of 
parecoxib. 
Excipient with known effect  
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose. 
When reconstituted in sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution, Dynastat contains approximately 
0.44 mmol of sodium per vial. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder for solution for injection (powder for injection). 
White to off-white powder. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
For the short-term treatment of postoperative pain in adults. 
The decision to prescribe a selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor should be based on an 
assessment of the individual patient's overall risks (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The recommended dose is 40 mg administered intravenously (IV) or intramuscularly (IM), followed 
every 6 to 12 hours by 20 mg or 40 mg as required, not to exceed 80 mg/day. 
As the cardiovascular risk of COX-2 specific inhibitors may increase with dose and duration of 
exposure, the shortest duration possible and the lowest effective daily dose should be used. There is 
limited clinical experience with Dynastat treatment beyond three days (see section 5.1). 
Concomitant use with opioid analgesics 
Opioid analgesics can be used concurrently with parecoxib, dosing as described in the paragraph 
above. In all clinical assessments parecoxib was administered at a fixed time interval whereas the 
opioids were administered on as needed basis. 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is generally necessary in elderly patients (≥65 years). However, for elderly 
patients weighing less than 50 kg, treatment should be initiated with half the usual recommended dose 
of Dynastat and reduce the maximum daily dose to 40 mg (see section 5.2). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
There is no clinical experience in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 10), 
therefore its use is contraindicated in these patients (see sections 4.3 and 5.2). No dosage adjustment is 
generally necessary in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 5-6). Dynastat should 
be introduced with caution and at half the usual recommended dose in patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment (Child-Pugh score 7-9) and the maximum daily dose should be reduced to 40 mg.  
Renal impairment 
In patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min.) or patients who may be 
predisposed to fluid retention, parecoxib should be initiated at the lowest recommended dose (20 mg) 
and the patient's kidney function should be closely monitored (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). On the basis 
of pharmacokinetics, no dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild to moderate renal 
impairment (creatinine clearance of 30-80 ml/min.). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of parecoxib in children under 18 years old have not been established. No data 
are available. Therefore, parecoxib is not recommended in these patients. 
Method of administration 
The IV bolus injection may be given rapidly and directly into a vein or into an existing IV line. The IM 
injection should be given slowly and deeply into the muscle. For instructions on reconstitution of the 
medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
Precipitation may occur when Dynastat is combined in solution with other medicinal products and 
therefore Dynastat must not be mixed with any other medicinal product, either during reconstitution or 
injection. In those patients where the same IV line is to be used to inject another medicinal product, the 
line must be adequately flushed prior to and after Dynastat injection with a solution of known 
compatibility. 
After reconstitution with acceptable solvents, Dynastat may only be injected IV or IM, or into IV lines 
delivering the following: 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection/infusion; 
• 
•  glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for infusion; 
• 
sodium chloride 4.5 mg/ml (0.45%) and glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for 
injection/infusion; 
or 
•  Ringer-Lactate solution for injection. 
Injection into an IV line delivering glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) in Ringer-Lactate solution for injection, or 
other IV fluids not listed above, is not recommended as this may cause precipitation from solution. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
History of previous serious allergic drug reaction of any type, especially cutaneous reactions such as 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome, drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms syndrome 
(DRESS syndrome), toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme or patients with known 
hypersensitivity to sulfonamides (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Active peptic ulceration or gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding. 
Patients who have experienced bronchospasm, acute rhinitis, nasal polyps, angioneurotic oedema, 
urticaria or other allergic-type reactions after taking acetylsalicylic acid or nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) including COX-2 inhibitors. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The third trimester of pregnancy and breast-feeding (see sections 4.6 and 5.3). 
Severe hepatic impairment (serum albumin <25 g/l or Child-Pugh score 10). 
Inflammatory bowel disease. 
Congestive heart failure (NYHA II-IV). 
Treatment of post-operative pain following coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery (see sections 
4.8 and 5.1). 
Established ischaemic heart disease, peripheral arterial disease and/or cerebrovascular disease. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Dynastat has been studied in dental, orthopaedic, gynaecologic (principally hysterectomy) and 
coronary artery bypass graft surgery. There is limited experience in other types of surgery, for example 
gastrointestinal or urological surgery (see section 5.1). 
Modes of administration other than IV or IM (e.g. intra-articular, intrathecal) have not been studied 
and should not be used. 
Because of the possibility for increased adverse reactions at higher doses of parecoxib, other COX-2 
inhibitors and NSAIDs, patients treated with parecoxib should be reviewed following dose increase 
and, in the absence of an increase in efficacy, other therapeutic options should be considered (see 
section 4.2). There is limited clinical experience with Dynastat treatment beyond three days (see 
section 5.1). 
If, during treatment, patients deteriorate in any of the organ system functions described below, 
appropriate measures should be taken and discontinuation of parecoxib therapy should be considered. 
Cardiovascular 
COX-2 inhibitors have been associated with increased risk of cardiovascular and thrombotic adverse 
events when taken long term. The exact magnitude of the risk associated with a single dose has not 
been determined, nor has the exact duration of therapy associated with increased risk. 
Patients with significant risk factors for cardiovascular events (e.g. hypertension, hyperlipidaemia, 
diabetes mellitus, smoking) should only be treated with parecoxib after careful consideration (see 
section 5.1). 
Appropriate measures should be taken and discontinuation of parecoxib therapy should be considered 
if there is clinical evidence of deterioration in the condition of specific clinical symptoms in these 
patients. Dynastat has not been studied in cardiovascular revascularization procedures other than 
coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) procedures. Studies in types of surgery other than CABG 
procedures included patients with American Society of Anaesthesiology (ASA) Physical Status Class 
I-III only. 
Acetylsalicylic acid and other NSAIDs 
COX-2 inhibitors are not a substitute for acetylsalicylic acid for prophylaxis of cardiovascular 
thrombo-embolic diseases because of their lack of antiplatelet effects. Therefore, antiplatelet therapies 
should not be discontinued (see section 5.1). Caution should be exercised when coadministering 
Dynastat with warfarin and other oral anticoagulants (see section 4.5). The concomitant use of 
parecoxib with other non- acetylsalicylic acid NSAIDs should be avoided. 
Dynastat may mask fever and other signs of inflammation (see section 5.1). In isolated cases, an 
aggravation of soft tissue infections has been described in connection with the use of NSAIDs and in 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nonclinical studies with Dynastat (see section 5.3). Caution should be exercised with respect to 
monitoring the incision for signs of infection in surgical patients receiving Dynastat. 
Gastrointestinal 
Upper gastrointestinal (GI) complications (perforations, ulcers or bleedings [PUBs]), some of them 
resulting in fatal outcome, have occurred in patients treated with parecoxib. Caution is advised in the 
treatment of patients most at risk of developing a gastrointestinal complication with NSAIDs; the 
elderly, or patients with a prior history of gastrointestinal disease, such as ulceration and GI bleeding, 
or patients using acetylsalicylic acid concomitantly. The NSAIDs class is also associated with 
increased GI complications when coadministered with glucocorticoids, selective serotonin reuptake 
inhibitors, other antiplatelet drugs, other NSAIDs or patients ingesting alcohol. There is further 
increase in the risk of gastrointestinal adverse effects (gastrointestinal ulceration or other 
gastrointestinal complications), when parecoxib is taken concomitantly with acetylsalicylic acid (even 
at low doses). 
Skin reactions 
Serious skin reactions, including erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis and Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome (some of them fatal) have been reported through post-marketing surveillance in patients 
receiving parecoxib. Additionally, fatal reports of toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported 
through post-marketing surveillance in patients receiving valdecoxib (the active metabolite of 
parecoxib) and cannot be ruled out for parecoxib (see section 4.8). Some NSAIDs and selective 
COX- 2 inhibitors have been associated with an increased risk of generalized bullous fixed drug 
eruptions (GBFDE). DRESS syndrome may occur with parecoxib exposure based on other serious 
skin reactions reported with celecoxib and valdecoxib exposure. Patients appear to be at highest risk 
for these reactions early in the course of therapy; the onset of the reaction occurring in the majority of 
cases within the first month of treatment. 
Appropriate measures should be taken by physicians to monitor for any serious skin reactions with 
therapy, e.g. additional patient consultations. Patients should be advised to immediately report any 
emergent skin condition to their physician. 
Parecoxib should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash, mucosal lesions, or any other 
sign of hypersensitivity. Serious skin reactions are known to occur with NSAIDs including COX-2 
selective inhibitors as well as other medicinal products. However, the reported rate of serious skin 
events appears to be greater for valdecoxib (the active metabolite of parecoxib) as compared to other 
COX-2 selective inhibitors. Patients with a history of sulfonamide allergy may be at greater risk of 
skin reactions (see section 4.3). Patients without a history of sulfonamide allergy may also be at risk 
for serious skin reactions. 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypersensitivity reactions (anaphylaxis and angioedema) have been reported in post-marketing 
experience with valdecoxib and parecoxib (see section 4.8). Some of these reactions have occurred in 
patients with a history of allergic-type reactions to sulfonamides (see section 4.3). Parecoxib should be 
discontinued at the first sign of hypersensitivity. 
Cases of severe hypotension shortly following parecoxib administration have been reported in 
post-marketing experience with parecoxib. Some of these cases have occurred without other signs of 
anaphylaxis. The physician should be prepared to treat severe hypotension. 
Fluid retention, oedema, renal 
As with other medicinal products known to inhibit prostaglandin synthesis, fluid retention and oedema 
have been observed in some patients taking parecoxib. Therefore, parecoxib should be used with 
caution in patients with compromised cardiac function, preexisting oedema, or other conditions 
predisposing to, or worsened by, fluid retention including those taking diuretic treatment or otherwise 
at risk of hypovolemia. If there is clinical evidence of deterioration in the condition of these patients, 
appropriate measures including discontinuation of parecoxib should be taken. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acute renal failure has been reported through post-marketing surveillance in patients receiving 
parecoxib (see section 4.8). Since prostaglandin synthesis inhibition may result in deterioration of 
renal function and fluid retention, caution should be observed when administering Dynastat in patients 
with impaired renal function (see section 4.2) or hypertension, or in patients with compromised cardiac 
or hepatic function or other conditions predisposing to fluid retention. 
Caution should be used when initiating treatment with Dynastat in patients with dehydration. In this 
case, it is advisable to rehydrate patients first and then start therapy with Dynastat. 
Hypertension 
As with all NSAIDs, parecoxib can lead to the onset of new hypertension or worsening of pre-existing 
hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of cardiovascular events. 
Parecoxib should be used with caution in patients with hypertension. Blood pressure should be 
monitored closely during the initiation of therapy with parecoxib and throughout the course of therapy. 
If blood pressure rises significantly, alternative treatment should be considered. 
Hepatic impairment 
Dynastat should be used with caution in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh 
score 7-9) (see section 4.2). 
Use with oral anticoagulants 
The concomitant use of NSAIDs with oral anticoagulants increases the risk of bleeding. Oral 
anticoagulants include warfarin/coumarin-type and novel oral anticoagulants (e.g. apixaban, 
dabigatran, and rivaroxaban) (see section 4.5). 
Sodium content 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per ml, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
Anticoagulant therapy should be monitored, particularly during the first few days after initiating 
Dynastat therapy in patients receiving warfarin or other anticoagulants, since these patients have an 
increased risk of bleeding complications. Therefore, patients receiving oral anticoagulants should be 
closely monitored for their prothrombin time INR, particularly in the first few days when therapy with 
parecoxib is initiated or the dose of parecoxib is changed (see section 4.4). 
Dynastat had no effect on acetylsalicylic acid-mediated inhibition of platelet aggregation or bleeding 
times. Clinical trials indicate that Dynastat can be given with low dose acetylsalicylic acid (325 mg). 
In the submitted studies, as with other NSAIDs, an increased risk of gastrointestinal ulceration or other 
gastrointestinal complications compared to use of parecoxib alone was shown for concomitant 
administration of low-dose acetylsalicylic acid (see section 5.1). 
Coadministration of parecoxib and heparin did not affect the pharmacodynamics of heparin (activated 
partial thromboplastin time) compared to heparin alone. 
Inhibition of prostaglandins by NSAIDs, including COX-2 inhibitors, may diminish the effect of 
angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin II antagonists, beta-blockers and 
diuretics. This interaction should be given consideration in patients receiving parecoxib concomitantly 
with ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II antagonists, beta-blockers and diuretics. 
In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with 
compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with 
ACE inhibitors or Angiotensin-II antagonists, may result in further deterioration of renal function, 
including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therefore, the concomitant administration of these drugs should be done with caution. Patients should 
be adequately hydrated and the need to monitor the renal function should be assessed at the beginning 
of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. 
Coadministration of NSAIDs and ciclosporin or tacrolimus has been suggested to increase the 
nephrotoxic effect of ciclosporin and tacrolimus because of NSAID effects on renal prostaglandins. 
Renal function should be monitored when parecoxib and any of these medicinal products are 
coadministered. 
Dynastat may be coadministered with opioid analgesics. In clinical trials, the daily requirement for 
PRN opioids was significantly reduced when coadministered with parecoxib. 
Effects of other medicinal products on the pharmacokinetics of parecoxib (or its active metabolite 
valdecoxib) 
Parecoxib is rapidly hydrolysed to the active metabolite valdecoxib. In humans, studies demonstrated 
that valdecoxib metabolism is predominantly mediated via CYP3A4 and 2C9 isozymes. 
Plasma exposure (AUC and Cmax) to valdecoxib was increased (62% and 19%, respectively) when 
coadministered with fluconazole (predominantly a CYP2C9 inhibitor), indicating that the dose of 
parecoxib should be reduced in those patients who are receiving fluconazole therapy. 
Plasma exposure (AUC and Cmax) to valdecoxib was increased (38% and 24%, respectively) when 
coadministered with ketoconazole (CYP3A4 inhibitor), however, a dosage adjustment should not 
generally be necessary for patients receiving ketoconazole. 
The effect of enzyme induction has not been studied. The metabolism of valdecoxib may increase 
when coadministered with enzyme inducers such as rifampicin, phenytoin, carbamazepine, or 
dexamethasone. 
Effect of parecoxib (or its active metabolite valdecoxib) on the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal 
products 
Treatment with valdecoxib (40 mg twice daily for 7 days) produced a 3-fold increase in plasma 
concentrations of dextromethorphan (CYP2D6 substrate). Therefore, caution should be observed when 
coadministering Dynastat and medicinal products that are predominantly metabolised by CYP2D6 and 
which have narrow therapeutic margins (e.g. flecainide, propafenone, metoprolol). 
Plasma exposure of omeprazole (CYP 2C19 substrate) 40 mg once daily was increased by 46% 
following administration of valdecoxib 40 mg twice daily for 7 days, while the plasma exposure to 
valdecoxib was unaffected. These results indicate that although valdecoxib is not metabolised by 
CYP2C19, it may be an inhibitor of this isoenzyme. Therefore, caution should be observed when 
administering Dynastat with medicinal products known to be substrates of CYP2C19 (e.g. phenytoin, 
diazepam, or imipramine). 
In two pharmacokinetic interaction studies in rheumatoid arthritis patients receiving a stable weekly 
methotrexate dose (5-20 mg/week, as a single oral or intramuscular dose), orally administered 
valdecoxib (10 mg twice daily or 40 mg twice daily) had little or no effect on the steady-state plasma 
concentrations of methotrexate. However caution is advised when methotrexate is administered 
concurrently with NSAIDs, because NSAID administration may result in increased plasma levels of 
methotrexate. Adequate monitoring of methotrexate-related toxicity should be considered when 
coadministering parecoxib and methotrexate. 
Coadministration of valdecoxib and lithium produced significant decreases in lithium serum clearance 
(25%) and renal clearance (30%) with a 34% higher serum exposure compared to lithium alone. 
Lithium serum concentration should be monitored closely when initiating or changing parecoxib 
therapy in patients receiving lithium. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Coadministration of valdecoxib with glibenclamide (CYP3A4 substrate) did not affect either the 
pharmacokinetics (exposure) or the pharmacodynamics (blood glucose and insulin levels) of 
glibenclamide. 
Injectable anaesthetics 
Coadministration of IV parecoxib 40 mg with propofol (CYP2C9 substrate) or midazolam (CYP3A4 
substrate) did not affect either the pharmacokinetics (metabolism and exposure) or the 
pharmacodynamics (EEG effects, psychomotor tests and waking from sedation) of IV propofol or IV 
midazolam. Additionally, coadministration of valdecoxib had no clinically significant effect on the 
hepatic or intestinal CYP 3A4-mediated metabolism of orally administered midazolam. 
Administration of IV parecoxib 40 mg had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of either IV 
fentanyl or IV alfentanil (CYP3A4 substrates). 
Inhalation anaesthetics 
No formal interaction studies have been done. In surgery studies in which parecoxib was administered 
pre-operatively, no evidence of pharmacodynamic interaction was observed in patients receiving 
parecoxib and the inhalation anaesthetic agents nitrous oxide and isoflurane (see section 5.1). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy, and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate data from the use of parecoxib in pregnant women or during labour. However, 
inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis might adversely affect pregnancy. Data from epidemiological 
studies suggest an increased risk of miscarriage after use of prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors in early 
pregnancy. In animals, administration of prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors, including parecoxib, has 
been shown to result in increased pre- and post-implantation loss and embryo-foetal lethality (see 
sections 5.1 and 5.3). From the 20th week of pregnancy onward, Dynastat use may cause 
oligohydramnios resulting from foetal renal dysfunction. This may occur shortly after treatment 
initiation and is usually reversible upon discontinuation. In addition, there have been reports of ductus 
arteriosus constriction following treatment in the second trimester, most of which resolved after 
treatment cessation. Therefore, during the first and second trimester of pregnancy, Dynastat should not 
be given unless clearly necessary. If Dynastat is used by a woman attempting to conceive, or during 
the first and second trimester of pregnancy, the dose should be kept as low and duration of treatment as 
short as possible. Antenatal monitoring for oligohydramnios and ductus arteriosus constriction should 
be considered after exposure to Dynastat for several days from gestational week 20 onward. Dynastat 
should be discontinued if oligohydramnios or ductus arteriosus constriction are found. 
During the third trimester of pregnancy, all prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors may expose the foetus 
to: 
• 
cardiopulmonary toxicity (premature constriction/closure of the ductus arteriosus and 
pulmonary hypertension); 
• 
renal dysfunction (see above);  
the mother and the neonate, at the end of pregnancy, to: 
•  possible prolongation of bleeding time, an anti-aggregating effect which may occur even at 
very low doses; 
• 
inhibition of uterine contractions resulting in delayed or prolonged labour. 
Consequently, Dynastat is contraindicated during the third trimester of pregnancy (see sections 4.3 and 
5.3). 
Breast-feeding 
Administration of a single dose of parecoxib to lactating women following caesarean section resulted 
in the transfer of a relatively small amount of parecoxib and its active metabolite valdecoxib into 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
human milk, and this resulted in a low relative dose for the infant (approximately 1% of the 
weight-adjusted maternal dose). Dynastat must not be administered to women who breast-feed (see 
section 4.3). 
Fertility 
The use of Dynastat, as with any medicinal product known to inhibit cyclooxygenase/prostaglandin 
synthesis, is not recommended in women attempting to conceive (see sections 4.3, 5.1 and 5.3). 
Based on the mechanism of action, the use of NSAIDs, may delay or prevent rupture of ovarian 
follicles, which has been associated with reversible infertility in some women. In women who have 
difficulties conceiving or who are undergoing investigation of infertility, withdrawal of NSAIDs, 
including Dynastat should be considered. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Patients who experience dizziness, vertigo or somnolence after receiving Dynastat should refrain from 
driving or operating machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most common adverse reaction for Dynastat is nausea. The most serious reactions occur 
uncommonly to rarely, and include cardiovascular events such as myocardial infarction and severe 
hypotension, as well as hypersensitivity events such as anaphylaxis, angioedema, and severe skin 
reactions. Following coronary artery bypass graft surgery, patients administered Dynastat have a 
higher risk of adverse reactions such as: cardiovascular/thromboembolic events (including myocardial 
infarction, stroke/TIA, pulmonary embolus, and deep vein thrombosis; see sections 4.3 and 5.1), deep 
surgical infections, and sternal wound healing complications. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following adverse reactions were reported for patients who received parecoxib (N=5,402) in 
28 placebo-controlled clinical trials. Reports from post-marketing experience have been listed as 
“frequency not known” because the respective frequencies cannot be estimated from the available 
data. Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are listed using MedDRA terminology and 
presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Uncommon 
(1/1000 to <1/100) 
Rare (1/10,000 
to <1/1000) 
Not known 
Adverse Drug Reaction Frequency 
Very Common 
(1/10) 
Common 
(1/100 to 
<1/10) 
Infections and infestations 
Pharyngitis, 
alveolar osteitis 
(dry socket) 
Abnormal sternal 
serous wound 
drainage, wound 
infection 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Anaemia 
postoperative 
Thrombocytopenia 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Hypokalaemia  Hyperglycaemia, 
anorexia 
Anaphylactoid 
reaction 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse Drug Reaction Frequency 
Very Common 
(1/10) 
Common 
(1/100 to 
<1/10) 
Uncommon 
(1/1000 to <1/100) 
Rare (1/10,000 
to <1/1000) 
Not known 
Psychiatric disorders 
Agitation, 
insomnia 
Nervous system disorders 
Hypoaesthesia, 
dizziness  
Cerebrovascular 
disorder 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Ear pain 
Myocardial 
infarction, 
bradycardia 
Vascular disorders 
Hypertension, 
hypotension 
Hypertension 
(aggravated), 
orthostatic hypotension 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Respiratory 
insufficiency 
Pulmonary 
embolism 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Nausea 
Abdominal pain, 
vomiting, 
constipation, 
dyspepsia, 
flatulence 
Gastroduodenal 
ulceration, 
gastrooesophageal 
reflux disease, dry 
mouth, gastrointestinal 
sounds abnormal 
Pancreatitis, 
oesophagitis, 
oedema mouth 
(perioral 
swelling) 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Pruritus, 
hyperhidrosis 
Ecchymosis, rash, 
urticaria 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Back pain 
Arthralgia 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Oliguria 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Oedema 
peripheral 
Asthenia, injection site 
pain, injection site 
reaction 
Investigations 
Blood 
creatinine 
increased 
Blood CPK 
increased, blood 
LDH increased, 
SGOT increased, 
SGPT increased, 
BUN increased. 
10 
Circulatory 
collapse, 
congestive heart 
failure, tachycardia 
Dyspnoea 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, 
erythema 
multiforme, 
exfoliative 
dermatitis 
Renal failure 
acute 
Renal failure, 
Hypersensitivity 
reactions 
including 
anaphylaxis and 
angioedema 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse Drug Reaction Frequency 
Very Common 
(1/10) 
Common 
(1/100 to 
<1/10) 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
Post procedural 
complication (skin) 
Uncommon 
(1/1000 to <1/100) 
Rare (1/10,000 
to <1/1000) 
Not known 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
In post-marketing experience, toxic epidermal necrolysis has been reported in association with the use 
of valdecoxib, and cannot be ruled out for parecoxib (see section 4.4). In addition, the following rare, 
serious adverse reactions have been reported in association with the use of NSAIDs and cannot be 
ruled out for Dynastat: bronchospasm and hepatitis. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Reporting of overdose with parecoxib has been associated with adverse reactions which have also been 
described with recommended doses of parecoxib. 
In case of acute overdose, patients should be managed by symptomatic and supportive care. There are 
no specific antidotes. Parecoxib is a prodrug of valdecoxib. Valdecoxib is not removed by 
haemodialysis. Diuresis or alkalisation of urine may not be useful due to high protein binding of 
valdecoxib. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Anti-inflammatory and antirheumatic products, Coxibs, ATC code: 
M01AH04 
Parecoxib is a prodrug of valdecoxib. Valdecoxib is a selective COX-2 inhibitor within the clinical 
dose range. Cyclooxygenase is responsible for generation of prostaglandins. Two isoforms, COX-1 
and COX-2, have been identified. COX-2 is the isoform of the enzyme that has been shown to be 
induced by pro-inflammatory stimuli and has been postulated to be primarily responsible for the 
synthesis of prostanoid mediators of pain, inflammation, and fever. COX-2 is also involved in 
ovulation, implantation, and closure of the ductus arteriosus, regulation of renal function, and central 
nervous system functions (fever induction, pain perception, and cognitive function). It may also play a 
role in ulcer healing. COX-2 has been identified in tissue around gastric ulcers in man but its relevance 
to ulcer healing has not been established. 
The difference in antiplatelet activity between some COX-1 inhibiting NSAIDs and COX-2 selective 
inhibitors may be of clinical significance in patients at risk of thrombo-embolic reactions. COX-2 
selective inhibitors reduce the formation of systemic (and therefore possibly endothelial) prostacyclin 
without affecting platelet thromboxane. The clinical relevance of these observations has not been 
established. 
Parecoxib has been used in a range of major and minor surgeries. The efficacy of Dynastat was 
established in studies of dental, gynaecologic (hysterectomy), orthopaedic (knee and hip replacement), 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and coronary artery bypass graft surgical pain. The first perceptible analgesic effect occurred in 
7-13 minutes, with clinically meaningful analgesia demonstrated in 23-39 minutes and a peak effect 
within 2 hours following administration of single doses of 40 mg IV or IM Dynastat. The magnitude of 
analgesic effect of the 40 mg dose was comparable with that of ketorolac 60 mg IM or ketorolac 30 mg 
IV. After a single dose, the duration of analgesia was dose and clinical pain model dependent, and 
ranged from 6 to greater than 12 hours. 
Use of parecoxib beyond 3 days 
Most trials were designed for dosing of parecoxib up to 3 days. Data from 3 randomised 
placebo-controlled trials, where the protocols allowed treatment of parecoxib for >3 days was pooled 
and analysed. In the pooled analysis of 676 patients, 318 received placebo and 358 received parecoxib. 
Of the patients treated with parecoxib, 317 patients received parecoxib for up to 4 days, 32 patients for 
up to 5 days, while only 8 patients were treated for up to 6 days and 1 patient for 7 or more days. Of 
the patients treated with placebo, 270 patients received placebo for up to 4 days, 43 patients for up to 
5 days, while only 3 patients were treated for up to 6 days and 2 patients for 7 or more days. Both 
groups had similar demographics. The mean (SD) duration of treatment was 4.1 (0.4) days for 
parecoxib and 4.2 (0.5) days for placebo, the range was 4-7 days for parecoxib and 4-9 days for 
placebo. The occurrence of adverse events in patients receiving parecoxib for 4-7 days (median 
duration 4 days) was low after treatment Day 3 and similar to placebo. 
Opioid-sparing effects 
In a placebo-controlled, orthopedic, and general surgery study (n =1050), patients received Dynastat at 
an initial parenteral dose of 40 mg IV followed by 20 mg twice daily for a minimum of 72 hours in 
addition to receiving standard care including supplemental patient controlled opioids. The reduction in 
opioid use with Dynastat treatment on Days 2 and 3 was 7.2 mg and 2.8 mg (37% and 28% 
respectively). This reduction in opioid use was accompanied by significant reductions in 
patient-reported opioid symptom distress. Added pain relief compared to opioids alone was shown. 
Additional studies in other surgical settings provided similar observations. There are no data indicating 
less overall adverse events associated with the use of parecoxib compared to placebo when used in 
conjunction with opioids. 
Gastrointestinal studies 
In short-term studies (7 days), the incidence of endoscopically observed gastroduodenal ulcers or 
erosions in healthy young and elderly (65 years) subjects administered Dynastat (5-21%), although 
higher than placebo (5-12%), was statistically significantly lower than the incidence observed with 
NSAIDs (66-90%). 
CABG post-operative safety studies 
In addition to routine adverse event reporting, pre-specified event categories, adjudicated by an 
independent expert committee, were examined in two placebo-controlled safety studies in which 
patients received parecoxib for at least 3 days and then were transitioned to oral valdecoxib for a total 
duration of 10-14 days. All patients received standard of care analgesia during treatment. 
Patients received low-dose acetylsalicylic acid prior to randomization and throughout the two CABG 
surgery studies. 
The first CABG surgery study evaluated patients treated with IV parecoxib 40 mg bid for a minimum 
of 3 days, followed by treatment with valdecoxib 40 mg bid (parecoxib/valdecoxib group) (n=311) or 
placebo/placebo (n=151) in a 14-day, double-blind placebo-controlled study. Nine pre-specified 
adverse event categories were evaluated (cardiovascular thromboembolic events, pericarditis, new 
onset or exacerbation of congestive heart failure, renal failure/dysfunction, upper GI ulcer 
complications, major non-GI bleeds, infections, non-infectious pulmonary complications, and death). 
There was a significantly (p <0.05) greater incidence of cardiovascular/thromboembolic events 
(myocardial infarction, ischemia, cerebrovascular accident, deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary 
embolism) detected in the parecoxib/valdecoxib treatment group compared to the placebo/placebo 
treatment group for the IV dosing period (2.2% and 0.0% respectively) and over the entire study 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
period (4.8% and 1.3% respectively). Surgical wound complications (most involving the sternal 
wound) were observed at an increased rate with parecoxib/valdecoxib treatment. 
In the second CABG surgery study, four pre-specified event categories were evaluated 
(cardiovascular/thromboembolic; renal dysfunction/renal failure; upper GI ulcer/bleeding; surgical 
wound complication). Patients were randomized within 24-hours post-CABG surgery to: parecoxib 
initial dose of 40 mg IV, then 20 mg IV Q12H for a minimum of 3 days followed by valdecoxib PO 
(20 mg Q12H) (n=544) for the remainder of a 10 day treatment period; placebo IV followed by 
valdecoxib PO (n=544); or placebo IV followed by placebo PO (n=548). A significantly (p =0.033) 
greater incidence of events in the cardiovascular/thromboembolic category was detected in the 
parecoxib/valdecoxib treatment group (2.0%) compared to the placebo/placebo treatment group 
(0.5%). Placebo/valdecoxib treatment was also associated with a higher incidence of CV 
thromboembolic events versus placebo treatment, but this difference did not reach statistical 
significance. Three of the six cardiovascular thromboembolic events in the placebo/valdecoxib 
treatment group occurred during the placebo treatment period; these patients did not receive 
valdecoxib. Pre-specified events that occurred with the highest incidence in all three treatment groups 
involved the category of surgical wound complications, including deep surgical infections and sternal 
wound healing events. 
There were no significant differences between active treatments and placebo for any of the other 
pre-specified event categories (renal dysfunction/failure, upper GI ulcer complications or surgical 
wound complications). 
General surgery 
In a large (N=1050) major orthopedic/general surgery trial, patients received an initial dose of 
parecoxib 40 mg IV, then 20 mg IV Q12H for a minimum of 3 days followed by valdecoxib PO 
(20 mg Q12H) (n=525) for the remainder of a 10 day treatment period, or placebo IV followed by 
placebo PO (n=525). There were no significant differences in the overall safety profile, including the 
four pre-specified event categories described above for the second CABG surgery study, for 
parecoxib/valdecoxib compared to placebo treatment in these post-surgical patients. 
Platelet studies 
In a series of small, multiple dose studies in healthy young and elderly subjects, Dynastat 20 mg or 
40 mg twice daily had no effect on platelet aggregation or bleeding compared to placebo. In young 
subjects, Dynastat 40 mg twice daily had no clinically significant effect on acetylsalicylic 
acid-mediated inhibition of platelet function (see section 4.5). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Following IV or IM injection, parecoxib is rapidly converted to valdecoxib, the pharmacologically 
active substance, by enzymatic hydrolysis in the liver. 
Absorption 
Exposure of valdecoxib following single doses of Dynastat, as measured by both the area under the 
plasma concentration vs. time curve (AUC) and peak concentration (Cmax), is approximately linear in 
the range of clinical doses. AUC and Cmax following twice daily administration is linear up to 50 mg 
IV and 20 mg IM. Steady state plasma concentrations of valdecoxib were reached within 4 days with 
twice daily dosing. 
Following single IV and IM doses of parecoxib 20 mg, Cmax of valdecoxib is achieved in 
approximately 30 minutes and approximately 1 hour, respectively. Exposure to valdecoxib was similar 
in terms of AUC and Cmax following IV and IM administration. Exposure to parecoxib was similar 
after IV or IM administration in terms of AUC. Average Cmax of parecoxib after IM dosing was lower 
compared to bolus IV dosing, which is attributed to slower extravascular absorption after IM 
administration. These decreases were not considered clinically important since Cmax of valdecoxib is 
comparable after IM and IV parecoxib administration. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
The volume of distribution of valdecoxib after its IV administration is approximately 55 litres. Plasma 
protein binding is approximately 98% over the concentration range achieved with the highest 
recommended dose, 80 mg/day. Valdecoxib, but not parecoxib, is extensively partitioned into 
erythrocytes. 
Biotransformation 
Parecoxib is rapidly and almost completely converted to valdecoxib and propionic acid in vivo with a 
plasma half-life of approximately 22 minutes. Elimination of valdecoxib is by extensive hepatic 
metabolism involving multiple pathways, including cytochrome P 450 (CYP) 3A4 and CYP2C9 
isoenzymes and glucuronidation (about 20%) of the sulfonamide moiety. A hydroxylated metabolite of 
valdecoxib (via the CYP pathway) has been identified in human plasma that is active as a COX-2 
inhibitor. It represents approximately 10% of the concentration of valdecoxib; because of this 
metabolite’s low concentration, it is not expected to contribute a significant clinical effect after 
administration of therapeutic doses of parecoxib. 
Elimination 
Valdecoxib is eliminated via hepatic metabolism with less than 5% unchanged valdecoxib recovered in 
the urine. No unchanged parecoxib is detected in urine and only trace amounts in the faeces. About 
70% of the dose is excreted in the urine as inactive metabolites. Plasma clearance (CLp) for valdecoxib 
is about 6 l/hr. After IV or IM dosing of parecoxib, the elimination half-life (t1/2) of valdecoxib is 
about 8 hours. 
Elderly 
Dynastat has been administered to 335 elderly patients (65-96 years of age) in pharmacokinetic and 
therapeutic trials. In healthy elderly subjects, the apparent oral clearance of valdecoxib was reduced, 
resulting in an approximately 40% higher plasma exposure of valdecoxib compared to healthy young 
subjects. When adjusted for body weight, steady state plasma exposure of valdecoxib was 16% higher 
in elderly females compared to elderly males (see section 4.2). 
Renal impairment 
In patients with varying degrees of renal impairment administered 20 mg IV Dynastat, parecoxib was 
rapidly cleared from plasma. Because renal elimination of valdecoxib is not important to its 
disposition, no changes in valdecoxib clearance were found even in patients with severe renal 
impairment or in patients undergoing dialysis (see section 4.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Moderate hepatic impairment did not result in a reduced rate or extent of parecoxib conversion to 
valdecoxib. In patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 7-9), treatment should be 
initiated with half the usual recommended dose of Dynastat and the maximum daily dose should be 
reduced to 40 mg since valdecoxib exposures were more than doubled (130%) in these patients. 
Patients with severe hepatic impairment have not been studied and therefore the use of Dynastat in 
patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended (see sections 4.2 and 4.3). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology or repeated dose toxicity at 2-fold the maximum human exposure to parecoxib. 
However, in the repeated dose toxicity studies in dogs and rats, the systemic exposures to valdecoxib 
(the active metabolite of parecoxib) were approximately 0.8-fold the systemic exposure in elderly 
human subjects at the maximum recommended therapeutic dose of 80 mg daily. Higher doses were 
associated with aggravation and delayed healing of skin infections, an effect probably associated with 
COX-2 inhibition. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In reproduction toxicity tests, the incidence of post-implantation losses, resorptions and foetal body 
weight retardation occurred at doses not producing maternal toxicity in the rabbit studies. No effects of 
parecoxib on male or female fertilities were found in rats. 
The effects of parecoxib have not been evaluated in late pregnancy or in the pre- and postnatal period. 
Parecoxib administered intravenously to lactating rats as a single dose showed concentrations of 
parecoxib, valdecoxib and a valdecoxib active metabolite in milk similar to that of maternal plasma. 
The carcinogenic potential of parecoxib has not been evaluated. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Disodium hydrogen phosphate 
Phosphoric acid and/or sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment). 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except for those mentioned 
in section 6.6. 
Dynastat and opioids should not be administered together in the same syringe. 
Use of Ringer-Lactate solution for injection or glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) in Ringer Lactate solution for 
injection for reconstitution will cause the parecoxib to precipitate from solution and therefore is not 
recommended. 
Use of water for injection is not recommended, as the resulting solution is not isotonic. 
Dynastat should not be injected into an IV line delivering any other medicinal product. The IV line 
must be adequately flushed prior to and after Dynastat injection with a solution of known 
compatibility (see section 6.6). 
Injection into an IV line delivering glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) in Ringer-Lactate solution for injection, or 
other IV fluids not listed in section 6.6, is not recommended as this may cause precipitation from 
solution. 
6.3  Shelf life 
The shelf life of the unreconstituted product is 3 years. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability of the reconstituted solution, which should not be refrigerated or 
frozen, have been demonstrated for up to 24 hours at 25C. Thus, 24 hours should be considered the 
maximum shelf life of the reconstituted product. However, due to the importance of microbiological 
infection risk for injectable products, the reconstituted solution should be used immediately unless 
reconstitution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions. Unless such requirements 
are met, in-storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user, and would not 
normally be longer than 12 hours at 25C. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions prior to reconstitution. 
For storage conditions of the reconstituted medicinal product see section 6.3. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Type I colourless glass vials (5 ml) with a butyl rubber stopper, sealed with a purple polypropylene 
flip-off cap on the aluminium overseal. 
Dynastat is available in packs containing 10 vials. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Dynastat must be reconstituted before use. Dynastat is preservative free. Aseptic technique is required 
for its preparation. 
Reconstitution solvents 
Acceptable solvents for reconstitution of Dynastat are: 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection/infusion 
• 
•  glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for infusion 
• 
sodium chloride 4.5 mg/ml (0.45%) and glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for injection/infusion 
Reconstitution process 
Use aseptic technique to reconstitute lyophilised parecoxib (as parecoxib). 
Remove the purple flip-off cap to expose the central portion of the rubber stopper of the 40 mg 
parecoxib vial. Withdraw, with a sterile needle and syringe, 2 ml of an acceptable solvent and insert 
the needle through the central portion of the rubber stopper transferring the solvent into the 40 mg vial. 
Dissolve the powder completely using a gentle swirling motion and inspect the reconstituted product 
before use. The entire contents of the vial should be withdrawn for a single administration. 
After reconstitution, the liquid should be a clear solution. Dynastat should be inspected visually for 
particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. The solution should not be used if 
discolored or cloudy, or if particulate matter is observed. Dynastat should be administered within 
24 hours of reconstitution (see section 6.3), or discarded. 
The reconstituted product is isotonic. 
IV line solution compatibility 
After reconstitution with acceptable solvents, Dynastat may only be injected IV or IM, or into IV lines 
delivering: 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection/infusion; 
• 
•  glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for infusion; 
• 
sodium chloride 4.5 mg/ml (0.45%) and glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for 
injection/infusion; 
  or 
•  Ringer-Lactate solution for injection. 
For single use only. Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in 
accordance with local requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/02/209/005 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 22 March 2002 
Date of latest renewal: 24 January 2012 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Dynastat 40 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Powder vial: Each vial contains 40 mg parecoxib (as 42.36 mg parecoxib sodium). After 
reconstitution, the concentration of parecoxib is 20 mg/ml. Each 2 ml of reconstituted powder contains 
40 mg of parecoxib. 
Excipient with known effect  
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose. 
When reconstituted in sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution, Dynastat contains approximately 
0.44 mmol of sodium per vial. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder and solvent for solution for injection (powder for injection). 
White to off-white powder. 
Solvent: clear and colourless solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
For the short-term treatment of postoperative pain in adults. 
The decision to prescribe a selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitor should be based on an 
assessment of the individual patient's overall risks (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The recommended dose is 40 mg administered intravenously (IV) or intramuscularly (IM), followed 
every 6 to 12 hours by 20 mg or 40 mg as required, not to exceed 80 mg/day. 
As the cardiovascular risk of COX-2 specific inhibitors may increase with dose and duration of 
exposure, the shortest duration possible and the lowest effective daily dose should be used. There is 
limited clinical experience with Dynastat treatment beyond three days (see section 5.1). 
Concomitant use with opioid analgesics 
Opioid analgesics can be used concurrently with parecoxib, dosing as described in the paragraph 
above. In all clinical assessments parecoxib was administered at a fixed time interval whereas the 
opioids were administered on as needed basis. 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is generally necessary in elderly patients (≥65 years). However, for elderly 
patients weighing less than 50 kg, treatment should be initiated with half the usual recommended dose 
of Dynastat and reduce the maximum daily dose to 40 mg (see section 5.2). 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
There is no clinical experience in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 10), 
therefore its use is contraindicated in these patients (see sections 4.3 and 5.2). No dosage adjustment is 
generally necessary in patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 5-6). Dynastat should 
be introduced with caution and at half the usual recommended dose in patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment (Child-Pugh score 7-9) and the maximum daily dose should be reduced to 40 mg. 
Renal impairment 
In patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 ml/min.) or patients who may be 
predisposed to fluid retention, parecoxib should be initiated at the lowest recommended dose (20 mg) 
and the patient's kidney function should be closely monitored (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). On the basis 
of pharmacokinetics, no dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild to moderate renal 
impairment (creatinine clearance of 30-80 ml/min.). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of parecoxib in children under 18 years old have not been established. No data 
are available. Therefore, parecoxib is not recommended in these patients. 
Method of administration 
The IV bolus injection may be given rapidly and directly into a vein or into an existing IV line. The IM 
injection should be given slowly and deeply into the muscle. For instructions on reconstitution of the 
medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
Precipitation may occur when Dynastat is combined in solution with other medicinal products and 
therefore Dynastat must not be mixed with any other medicinal product, either during reconstitution or 
injection. In those patients where the same IV line is to be used to inject another medicinal product, the 
line must be adequately flushed prior to and after Dynastat injection with a solution of known 
compatibility.  
After reconstitution with acceptable solvents, Dynastat may only be injected IV or IM, or into IV lines 
delivering the following: 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection/infusion; 
• 
•  glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for infusion; 
• 
sodium chloride 4.5 mg/ml (0.45%) and glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for 
injection/infusion; or 
•  Ringer-Lactate solution for injection. 
Injection into an IV line delivering glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) in Ringer-Lactate solution for injection, or 
other IV fluids not listed above, is not recommended as this may cause precipitation from solution. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
History of previous serious allergic drug reaction of any type, especially cutaneous reactions such as 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome, drug reaction with eosinophilia and systemic symptoms syndrome 
(DRESS syndrome), toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme or patients with known 
hypersensitivity to sulfonamides (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Active peptic ulceration or gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding. 
Patients who have experienced bronchospasm, acute rhinitis, nasal polyps, angioneurotic oedema, 
urticaria or other allergic-type reactions after taking acetylsalicylic acid or nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) including COX-2 inhibitors. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The third trimester of pregnancy and breast-feeding (see sections 4.6 and 5.3). 
Severe hepatic impairment (serum albumin <25 g/l or Child-Pugh score 10). 
Inflammatory bowel disease. 
Congestive heart failure (NYHA II-IV). 
Treatment of post-operative pain following coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery (see sections 
4.8 and 5.1). 
Established ischaemic heart disease, peripheral arterial disease and/or cerebrovascular disease. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Dynastat has been studied in dental, orthopaedic, gynaecologic (principally hysterectomy) and 
coronary artery bypass graft surgery. There is limited experience in other types of surgery, for example 
gastrointestinal or urological surgery (see section 5.1). 
Modes of administration other than IV or IM (e.g. intra-articular, intrathecal) have not been studied 
and should not be used. 
Because of the possibility for increased adverse reactions at higher doses of parecoxib, other COX-2 
inhibitors and NSAIDs, patients treated with parecoxib should be reviewed following dose increase 
and, in the absence of an increase in efficacy, other therapeutic options should be considered (see 
section 4.2). There is limited clinical experience with Dynastat treatment beyond three days (see 
section 5.1). 
If, during treatment, patients deteriorate in any of the organ system functions described below, 
appropriate measures should be taken and discontinuation of parecoxib therapy should be considered. 
Cardiovascular 
COX-2 inhibitors have been associated with increased risk of cardiovascular and thrombotic adverse 
events when taken long term. The exact magnitude of the risk associated with a single dose has not 
been determined, nor has the exact duration of therapy associated with increased risk. 
Patients with significant risk factors for cardiovascular events (e.g. hypertension, hyperlipidaemia, 
diabetes mellitus, smoking) should only be treated with parecoxib after careful consideration (see 
section 5.1). 
Appropriate measures should be taken and discontinuation of parecoxib therapy should be considered 
if there is clinical evidence of deterioration in the condition of specific clinical symptoms in these 
patients. Dynastat has not been studied in cardiovascular revascularization procedures other than 
coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) procedures. Studies in types of surgery other than CABG 
procedures included patients with American Society of Anaesthesiology (ASA) Physical Status Class 
I-III only. 
Acetylsalicylic acid and other NSAIDs 
COX-2 inhibitors are not a substitute for acetylsalicylic acid for prophylaxis of cardiovascular 
thrombo-embolic diseases because of their lack of antiplatelet effects. Therefore, antiplatelet therapies 
should not be discontinued (see section 5.1). Caution should be exercised when coadministering 
Dynastat with warfarin and other oral anticoagulants (see section 4.5). The concomitant use of 
parecoxib with other non- acetylsalicylic acid NSAIDs should be avoided. 
Dynastat may mask fever and other signs of inflammation (see section 5.1). In isolated cases, an 
aggravation of soft tissue infections has been described in connection with the use of NSAIDs and in 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nonclinical studies with Dynastat (see section 5.3). Caution should be exercised with respect to 
monitoring the incision for signs of infection in surgical patients receiving Dynastat. 
Gastrointestinal 
Upper gastrointestinal (GI) complications (perforations, ulcers or bleedings [PUBs]), some of them 
resulting in fatal outcome, have occurred in patients treated with parecoxib. Caution is advised in the 
treatment of patients most at risk of developing a gastrointestinal complication with NSAIDs; the 
elderly, or patients with a prior history of gastrointestinal disease, such as ulceration and GI bleeding, 
or patients using acetylsalicylic acid concomitantly. The NSAIDs class is also associated with 
increased GI complications when coadministered with glucocorticoids, selective serotonin reuptake 
inhibitors, other antiplatelet drugs, other NSAIDs or patients ingesting alcohol. There is further 
increase in the risk of gastrointestinal adverse effects (gastrointestinal ulceration or other 
gastrointestinal complications), when parecoxib is taken concomitantly with acetylsalicylic acid (even 
at low doses). 
Skin reactions 
Serious skin reactions, including erythema multiforme, exfoliative dermatitis and Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome (some of them fatal) have been reported through post-marketing surveillance in patients 
receiving parecoxib. Additionally, fatal reports of toxic epidermal necrolysis have been reported 
through post-marketing surveillance in patients receiving valdecoxib (the active metabolite of 
parecoxib) and cannot be ruled out for parecoxib (see section 4.8). Some NSAIDs and selective 
COX- 2 inhibitors have been associated with an increased risk of generalized bullous fixed drug 
eruptions (GBFDE). DRESS syndrome may occur with parecoxib exposure based on other serious 
skin reactions reported with celecoxib and valdecoxib exposure. Patients appear to be at highest risk 
for these reactions early in the course of therapy; the onset of the reaction occurring in the majority of 
cases within the first month of treatment. 
Appropriate measures should be taken by physicians to monitor for any serious skin reactions with 
therapy, e.g. additional patient consultations. Patients should be advised to immediately report any 
emergent skin condition to their physician. 
Parecoxib should be discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash, mucosal lesions, or any other 
sign of hypersensitivity. Serious skin reactions are known to occur with NSAIDs including COX-2 
selective inhibitors as well as other medicinal products. However, the reported rate of serious skin 
events appears to be greater for valdecoxib (the active metabolite of parecoxib) as compared to other 
COX-2 selective inhibitors. Patients with a history of sulfonamide allergy may be at greater risk of 
skin reactions (see section 4.3). Patients without a history of sulfonamide allergy may also be at risk 
for serious skin reactions. 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypersensitivity reactions (anaphylaxis and angioedema) have been reported in post-marketing 
experience with valdecoxib and parecoxib (see section 4.8). Some of these reactions have occurred in 
patients with a history of allergic-type reactions to sulfonamides (see section 4.3). Parecoxib should be 
discontinued at the first sign of hypersensitivity. 
Cases of severe hypotension shortly following parecoxib administration have been reported in 
post-marketing experience with parecoxib. Some of these cases have occurred without other signs of 
anaphylaxis. The physician should be prepared to treat severe hypotension. 
Fluid retention, oedema, renal 
As with other medicinal products known to inhibit prostaglandin synthesis, fluid retention and oedema 
have been observed in some patients taking parecoxib. Therefore, parecoxib should be used with 
caution in patients with compromised cardiac function, preexisting oedema, or other conditions 
predisposing to, or worsened by, fluid retention including those taking diuretic treatment or otherwise 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
at risk of hypovolemia. If there is clinical evidence of deterioration in the condition of these patients, 
appropriate measures including discontinuation of parecoxib should be taken. 
Acute renal failure has been reported through post-marketing surveillance in patients receiving 
parecoxib (see section 4.8). Since prostaglandin synthesis inhibition may result in deterioration of 
renal function and fluid retention, caution should be observed when administering Dynastat in patients 
with impaired renal function (see section 4.2) or hypertension, or in patients with compromised cardiac 
or hepatic function or other conditions predisposing to fluid retention. 
Caution should be used when initiating treatment with Dynastat in patients with dehydration. In this 
case, it is advisable to rehydrate patients first and then start therapy with Dynastat. 
Hypertension 
As with all NSAIDs, parecoxib can lead to the onset of new hypertension or worsening of pre-existing 
hypertension, either of which may contribute to the increased incidence of cardiovascular events. 
Parecoxib should be used with caution in patients with hypertension. Blood pressure should be 
monitored closely during the initiation of therapy with parecoxib and throughout the course of therapy. 
If blood pressure rises significantly, alternative treatment should be considered. 
Hepatic impairment 
Dynastat should be used with caution in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh 
score 7-9) (see section 4.2). 
Use with oral anticoagulants 
The concomitant use of NSAIDs with oral anticoagulants increases the risk of bleeding. Oral 
anticoagulants include warfarin/coumarin-type and novel oral anticoagulants (e.g. apixaban, 
dabigatran, and rivaroxaban) (see section 4.5). 
Sodium content 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per ml, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
Anticoagulant therapy should be monitored, particularly during the first few days after initiating 
Dynastat therapy in patients receiving warfarin or other anticoagulants, since these patients have an 
increased risk of bleeding complications. Therefore, patients receiving oral anticoagulants should be 
closely monitored for their prothrombin time INR, particularly in the first few days when therapy with 
parecoxib is initiated or the dose of parecoxib is changed (see section 4.4). 
Dynastat had no effect on acetylsalicylic acid-mediated inhibition of platelet aggregation or bleeding 
times. Clinical trials indicate that Dynastat can be given with low dose acetylsalicylic acid (325 mg). 
In the submitted studies, as with other NSAIDs, an increased risk of gastrointestinal ulceration or other 
gastrointestinal complications compared to use of parecoxib alone was shown for concomitant 
administration of low-dose acetylsalicylic acid (see section 5.1). 
Coadministration of parecoxib and heparin did not affect the pharmacodynamics of heparin (activated 
partial thromboplastin time) compared to heparin alone. 
Inhibition of prostaglandins by NSAIDs, including COX-2 inhibitors, may diminish the effect of 
angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin II antagonists, beta-blockers and 
diuretics. This interaction should be given consideration in patients receiving parecoxib concomitantly 
with ACE-inhibitors, angiotensin II antagonists, beta-blockers and diuretics. 
In patients who are elderly, volume-depleted (including those on diuretic therapy), or with 
compromised renal function, coadministration of NSAIDs, including selective COX-2 inhibitors, with 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE inhibitors or Angiotensin-II antagonists, may result in further deterioration of renal function, 
including possible acute renal failure. These effects are usually reversible. 
Therefore, the concomitant administration of these drugs should be done with caution. Patients should 
be adequately hydrated and the need to monitor the renal function should be assessed at the beginning 
of the concomitant treatment and periodically thereafter. 
Coadministration of NSAIDs and ciclosporin or tacrolimus has been suggested to increase the 
nephrotoxic effect of ciclosporin and tacrolimus because of NSAID effects on renal prostaglandins. 
Renal function should be monitored when parecoxib and any of these medicinal products are 
coadministered. 
Dynastat may be coadministered with opioid analgesics. In clinical trials, the daily requirement for 
PRN opioids was significantly reduced when coadministered with parecoxib. 
Effects of other medicinal products on the pharmacokinetics of parecoxib (or its active metabolite 
valdecoxib) 
Parecoxib is rapidly hydrolysed to the active metabolite valdecoxib. In humans, studies demonstrated 
that valdecoxib metabolism is predominantly mediated via CYP3A4 and 2C9 isozymes. 
Plasma exposure (AUC and Cmax) to valdecoxib was increased (62% and 19%, respectively) when 
coadministered with fluconazole (predominantly a CYP2C9 inhibitor), indicating that the dose of 
parecoxib should be reduced in those patients who are receiving fluconazole therapy. 
Plasma exposure (AUC and Cmax) to valdecoxib was increased (38% and 24%, respectively) when 
coadministered with ketoconazole (CYP3A4 inhibitor), however, a dosage adjustment should not 
generally be necessary for patients receiving ketoconazole. 
The effect of enzyme induction has not been studied. The metabolism of valdecoxib may increase 
when coadministered with enzyme inducers such as rifampicin, phenytoin, carbamazepine or 
dexamethasone. 
Effect of parecoxib (or its active metabolite valdecoxib) on the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal 
products 
Treatment with valdecoxib (40 mg twice daily for 7 days) produced a 3-fold increase in plasma 
concentrations of dextromethorphan (CYP2D6 substrate). Therefore, caution should be observed when 
coadministering Dynastat and medicinal products that are predominantly metabolised by CYP2D6 and 
which have narrow therapeutic margins (e.g. flecainide, propafenone, metoprolol). 
Plasma exposure of omeprazole (CYP 2C19 substrate) 40 mg once daily was increased by 46% 
following administration of valdecoxib 40 mg twice daily for 7 days, while the plasma exposure to 
valdecoxib was unaffected. These results indicate that although valdecoxib is not metabolised by 
CYP2C19, it may be an inhibitor of this isoenzyme. Therefore, caution should be observed when 
administering Dynastat with medicinal products known to be substrates of CYP2C19 (e.g. phenytoin, 
diazepam, or imipramine). 
In two pharmacokinetic interaction studies in rheumatoid arthritis patients receiving a stable weekly 
methotrexate dose (5-20 mg/week, as a single oral or intramuscular dose), orally administered 
valdecoxib (10 mg twice daily or 40 mg twice daily) had little or no effect on the steady-state plasma 
concentrations of methotrexate. However caution is advised when methotrexate is administered 
concurrently with NSAIDs, because NSAID administration may result in increased plasma levels of 
methotrexate. Adequate monitoring of methotrexate-related toxicity should be considered when 
coadministering parecoxib and methotrexate. 
Coadministration of valdecoxib and lithium produced significant decreases in lithium serum clearance 
(25%) and renal clearance (30%) with a 34% higher serum exposure compared to lithium alone. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lithium serum concentration should be monitored closely when initiating or changing parecoxib 
therapy in patients receiving lithium. 
Coadministration of valdecoxib with glibenclamide (CYP3A4 substrate) did not affect either the 
pharmacokinetics (exposure) or the pharmacodynamics (blood glucose and insulin levels) of 
glibenclamide. 
Injectable anaesthetics 
Coadministration of IV parecoxib 40 mg with propofol (CYP2C9 substrate) or midazolam (CYP3A4 
substrate) did not affect either the pharmacokinetics (metabolism and exposure) or the 
pharmacodynamics (EEG effects, psychomotor tests and waking from sedation) of IV propofol or IV 
midazolam. Additionally, coadministration of valdecoxib had no clinically significant effect on the 
hepatic or intestinal CYP 3A4-mediated metabolism of orally administered midazolam. 
Administration of IV parecoxib 40 mg had no significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of either IV 
fentanyl or IV alfentanil (CYP3A4 substrates). 
Inhalation anaesthetics 
No formal interaction studies have been done. In surgery studies in which parecoxib was administered 
pre-operatively, no evidence of pharmacodynamic interaction was observed in patients receiving 
parecoxib and the inhalation anaesthetic agents nitrous oxide and isoflurane (see section 5.1). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy, and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate data from the use of parecoxib in pregnant women or during labour. However, 
inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis might adversely affect pregnancy. Data from epidemiological 
studies suggest an increased risk of miscarriage after use of prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors in early 
pregnancy. In animals, administration of prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors, including parecoxib, has 
been shown to result in increased pre- and post-implantation loss and embryo-foetal lethality (see 
sections 5.1 and 5.3). From the 20th week of pregnancy onward, Dynastat use may cause 
oligohydramnios resulting from foetal renal dysfunction. This may occur shortly after treatment 
initiation and is usually reversible upon discontinuation. In addition, there have been reports of ductus 
arteriosus constriction following treatment in the second trimester, most of which resolved after 
treatment cessation. Therefore, during the first and second trimester of pregnancy, Dynastat should not 
be given unless clearly necessary. If Dynastat is used by a woman attempting to conceive, or during 
the first and second trimester of pregnancy, the dose should be kept as low and duration of treatment as 
short as possible. Antenatal monitoring for oligohydramnios and ductus arteriosus constriction should 
be considered after exposure to Dynastat for several days from gestational week 20 onward. Dynastat 
should be discontinued if oligohydramnios or ductus arteriosus constriction are found. 
During the third trimester of pregnancy, all prostaglandin synthesis inhibitors may expose the foetus 
to: 
• 
cardiopulmonary toxicity (premature constriction/closure of the ductus arteriosus and 
pulmonary hypertension); 
• 
renal dysfunction (see above);  
the mother and the neonate, at the end of pregnancy, to: 
•  possible prolongation of bleeding time, an anti-aggregating effect which may occur even at 
very low doses; 
• 
inhibition of uterine contractions resulting in delayed or prolonged labour. 
Consequently, Dynastat is contraindicated during the third trimester of pregnancy (see sections 4.3 
and 5.3). 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding 
Administration of a single dose of parecoxib to lactating women following caesarean section resulted 
in the transfer of a relatively small amount of parecoxib and its active metabolite valdecoxib into 
human milk, and this resulted in a low relative dose for the infant (approximately 1% of the 
weight-adjusted maternal dose). Dynastat must not be administered to women who breast-feed (see 
section 4.3). 
Fertility 
The use of Dynastat, as with any medicinal product known to inhibit cyclooxygenase/prostaglandin 
synthesis, is not recommended in women attempting to conceive (see sections 4.3, 5.1 and 5.3). 
Based on the mechanism of action, the use of NSAIDs, may delay or prevent rupture of ovarian 
follicles, which has been associated with reversible infertility in some women. In women who have 
difficulties conceiving or who are undergoing investigation of infertility, withdrawal of NSAIDs, 
including Dynastat should be considered. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Patients who experience dizziness, vertigo or somnolence after receiving Dynastat should refrain from 
driving or operating machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most common adverse reaction for Dynastat is nausea. The most serious reactions occur 
uncommonly to rarely, and include cardiovascular events such as myocardial infarction and severe 
hypotension, as well as hypersensitivity events such as anaphylaxis, angioedema and severe skin 
reactions. Following coronary artery bypass graft surgery, patients administered Dynastat have a 
higher risk of adverse reactions such as: cardiovascular/thromboembolic events (including myocardial 
infarction, stroke/TIA, pulmonary embolus, and deep vein thrombosis; see sections 4.3 and 5.1), deep 
surgical infections, and sternal wound healing complications. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following adverse reactions were reported for patients who received parecoxib (N=5,402) in 
28 placebo-controlled clinical trials. Reports from post-marketing experience have been listed as 
“frequency not known” because the respective frequencies cannot be estimated from the available 
data. Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are listed using MedDRA terminology and 
presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Uncommon 
(1/1000 to <1/100) 
Rare (1/10,000 
to <1/1000) 
Not known 
Adverse Drug Reaction Frequency 
Very Common 
(1/10) 
Common 
(1/100 to 
<1/10) 
Infections and infestations 
Pharyngitis, 
alveolar osteitis 
(dry socket) 
Abnormal sternal 
serous wound 
drainage, wound 
infection 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Anaemia 
postoperative 
Thrombocytopenia 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Hypokalaemia  Hyperglycaemia, 
anorexia 
25 
Anaphylactoid 
reaction 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse Drug Reaction Frequency 
Very Common 
(1/10) 
Common 
(1/100 to 
<1/10) 
Uncommon 
(1/1000 to <1/100) 
Rare (1/10,000 
to <1/1000) 
Not known 
Psychiatric disorders 
Agitation, 
insomnia 
Nervous system disorders 
Hypoaesthesia, 
dizziness  
Cerebrovascular 
disorder 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Ear pain 
Myocardial 
infarction, 
bradycardia 
Vascular disorders 
Hypertension, 
hypotension 
Hypertension 
(aggravated), 
orthostatic hypotension 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Respiratory 
insufficiency 
Pulmonary 
embolism 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Nausea 
Abdominal pain, 
vomiting, 
constipation, 
dyspepsia, 
flatulence 
Gastroduodenal 
ulceration, 
gastrooesophageal 
reflux disease, dry 
mouth, gastrointestinal 
sounds abnormal 
Pancreatitis, 
oesophagitis, 
oedema mouth 
(perioral 
swelling) 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Pruritus, 
hyperhidrosis 
Ecchymosis, rash, 
urticaria 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Back pain 
Arthralgia 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Oliguria 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Oedema 
peripheral 
Asthenia, injection site 
pain, injection site 
reaction 
Investigations 
Blood 
creatinine 
increased 
Blood CPK 
increased, blood 
LDH increased, 
SGOT increased, 
SGPT increased, 
BUN increased. 
26 
Circulatory 
collapse, 
congestive heart 
failure, tachycardia 
Dyspnoea 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, 
erythema 
multiforme, 
exfoliative 
dermatitis 
Renal failure 
acute 
Renal failure, 
Hypersensitivity 
reactions 
including 
anaphylaxis and 
angioedema 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse Drug Reaction Frequency 
Very Common 
(1/10) 
Common 
(1/100 to 
<1/10) 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
Post procedural 
complication (skin) 
Uncommon 
(1/1000 to <1/100) 
Rare (1/10,000 
to <1/1000) 
Not known 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
In post-marketing experience, toxic epidermal necrolysis has been reported in association with the use 
of valdecoxib, and cannot be ruled out for parecoxib (see section 4.4). In addition, the following rare, 
serious adverse reactions have been reported in association with the use of NSAIDs and cannot be 
ruled out for Dynastat: bronchospasm and hepatitis. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V 
4.9  Overdose 
Reporting of overdose with parecoxib has been associated with adverse reactions which have also been 
described with recommended doses of parecoxib. 
In case of acute overdose, patients should be managed by symptomatic and supportive care. There are 
no specific antidotes. Parecoxib is a prodrug of valdecoxib. Valdecoxib is not removed by 
haemodialysis. Diuresis or alkalisation of urine may not be useful due to high protein binding of 
valdecoxib. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Anti-inflammatory and antirheumatic products, Coxibs, ATC code: 
M01AH04 
Parecoxib is a prodrug of valdecoxib. Valdecoxib is a selective COX-2 inhibitor within the clinical 
dose range. Cyclooxygenase is responsible for generation of prostaglandins. Two isoforms, COX-1 
and COX-2, have been identified. COX-2 is the isoform of the enzyme that has been shown to be 
induced by pro-inflammatory stimuli and has been postulated to be primarily responsible for the 
synthesis of prostanoid mediators of pain, inflammation, and fever. COX-2 is also involved in 
ovulation, implantation and closure of the ductus arteriosus, regulation of renal function, and central 
nervous system functions (fever induction, pain perception, and cognitive function). It may also play a 
role in ulcer healing. COX-2 has been identified in tissue around gastric ulcers in man but its relevance 
to ulcer healing has not been established. 
The difference in antiplatelet activity between some COX-1 inhibiting NSAIDs and COX-2 selective 
inhibitors may be of clinical significance in patients at risk of thrombo-embolic reactions. COX-2 
selective inhibitors reduce the formation of systemic (and therefore possibly endothelial) prostacyclin 
without affecting platelet thromboxane. The clinical relevance of these observations has not been 
established. 
Parecoxib has been used in a range of major and minor surgeries. The efficacy of Dynastat was 
established in studies of dental, gynaecologic (hysterectomy), orthopaedic (knee and hip replacement), 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and coronary artery bypass graft surgical pain. The first perceptible analgesic effect occurred in 
7-13 minutes, with clinically meaningful analgesia demonstrated in 23-39 minutes and a peak effect 
within 2 hours following administration of single doses of 40 mg IV or IM Dynastat. The magnitude of 
analgesic effect of the 40 mg dose was comparable with that of ketorolac 60 mg IM or ketorolac 30 mg 
IV. After a single dose, the duration of analgesia was dose and clinical pain model dependent, and 
ranged from 6 to greater than 12 hours. 
Use of parecoxib beyond 3 days 
Most trials were designed for dosing of parecoxib up to 3 days. Data from 3 randomised 
placebo-controlled trials, where the protocols allowed treatment of parecoxib for >3 days was pooled 
and analysed. In the pooled analysis of 676 patients, 318 received placebo and 358 received parecoxib. 
Of the patients treated with parecoxib, 317 patients received parecoxib for up to 4 days, 32 patients for 
up to 5 days, while only 8 patients were treated for up to 6 days and 1 patient for 7 or more days. Of 
the patients treated with placebo, 270 patients received placebo for up to 4 days, 43 patients for up to 
5 days, while only 3 patients were treated for up to 6 days and 2 patients for 7 or more days. Both 
groups had similar demographics. The mean (SD) duration of treatment was 4.1 (0.4) days for 
parecoxib and 4.2 (0.5) days for placebo, the range was 4-7 days for parecoxib and 4-9 days for 
placebo. The occurrence of adverse events in patients receiving parecoxib for 4-7 days (median 
duration 4 days) was low after treatment Day 3 and similar to placebo. 
Opioid-sparing effects 
In a placebo-controlled, orthopedic and general surgery study (n =1050), patients received Dynastat at 
an initial parenteral dose of 40 mg IV followed by 20 mg twice daily for a minimum of 72 hours in 
addition to receiving standard care including supplemental patient controlled opioids. The reduction in 
opioid use with Dynastat treatment on Days 2 and 3 was 7.2 mg and 2.8 mg (37% and 28% 
respectively). This reduction in opioid use was accompanied by significant reductions in 
patient-reported opioid symptom distress. Added pain relief compared to opioids alone was shown. 
Additional studies in other surgical settings provided similar observations. There are no data indicating 
less overall adverse events associated with the use of parecoxib compared to placebo when used in 
conjunction with opioids. 
Gastrointestinal studies 
In short-term studies (7 days), the incidence of endoscopically observed gastroduodenal ulcers or 
erosions in healthy young and elderly ( 65 years) subjects administered Dynastat (5-21%), although 
higher than placebo (5-12%), was statistically significantly lower than the incidence observed with 
NSAIDs (66-90%). 
CABG post-operative safety studies 
In addition to routine adverse event reporting, pre-specified event categories, adjudicated by an 
independent expert committee, were examined in two placebo-controlled safety studies in which 
patients received parecoxib for at least 3 days and then were transitioned to oral valdecoxib for a total 
duration of 10-14 days. All patients received standard of care analgesia during treatment. 
Patients received low-dose acetylsalicylic acid prior to randomization and throughout the two CABG 
surgery studies. 
The first CABG surgery study evaluated patients treated with IV parecoxib 40 mg bid for a minimum 
of 3 days, followed by treatment with valdecoxib 40 mg bid (parecoxib/valdecoxib group) (n=311) or 
placebo/placebo (n=151) in a 14-day, double-blind placebo-controlled study. Nine pre-specified 
adverse event categories were evaluated (cardiovascular thromboembolic events, pericarditis, new 
onset or exacerbation of congestive heart failure, renal failure/dysfunction, upper GI ulcer 
complications, major non-GI bleeds, infections, non-infectious pulmonary complications, and death). 
There was a significantly (p<0.05) greater incidence of cardiovascular/thromboembolic events 
(myocardial infarction, ischemia, cerebrovascular accident, deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary 
embolism) detected in the parecoxib/valdecoxib treatment group compared to the placebo/placebo 
treatment group for the IV dosing period (2.2% and 0.0% respectively) and over the entire study 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
period (4.8% and 1.3% respectively). Surgical wound complications (most involving the sternal 
wound) were observed at an increased rate with parecoxib/valdecoxib treatment. 
In the second CABG surgery study, four pre-specified event categories were evaluated 
(cardiovascular/thromboembolic; renal dysfunction/renal failure; upper GI ulcer/bleeding; surgical 
wound complication). Patients were randomized within 24-hours post-CABG surgery to: parecoxib 
initial dose of 40 mg IV, then 20 mg IV Q12H for a minimum of 3 days followed by valdecoxib PO 
(20 mg Q12H) (n=544) for the remainder of a 10 day treatment period; placebo IV followed by 
valdecoxib PO (n=544); or placebo IV followed by placebo PO (n=548). A significantly (p=0.033) 
greater incidence of events in the cardiovascular/thromboembolic category was detected in the 
parecoxib/valdecoxib treatment group (2.0%) compared to the placebo/placebo treatment group 
(0.5%). Placebo/valdecoxib treatment was also associated with a higher incidence of CV 
thromboembolic events versus placebo treatment, but this difference did not reach statistical 
significance. Three of the six cardiovascular thromboembolic events in the placebo/valdecoxib 
treatment group occurred during the placebo treatment period; these patients did not receive 
valdecoxib. Pre-specified events that occurred with the highest incidence in all three treatment groups 
involved the category of surgical wound complications, including deep surgical infections and sternal 
wound healing events. 
There were no significant differences between active treatments and placebo for any of the other 
pre-specified event categories (renal dysfunction/failure, upper GI ulcer complications or surgical 
wound complications). 
General surgery 
In a large (N=1050) major orthopedic/general surgery trial, patients received an initial dose of 
parecoxib 40 mg IV, then 20 mg IV Q12H for a minimum of 3 days followed by valdecoxib PO 
(20 mg Q12H) (n=525) for the remainder of a 10 day treatment period, or placebo IV followed by 
placebo PO (n=525). There were no significant differences in the overall safety profile, including the 
four pre-specified event categories described above for the second CABG surgery study, for 
parecoxib/valdecoxib compared to placebo treatment in these post-surgical patients. 
Platelet studies 
In a series of small, multiple dose studies in healthy young and elderly subjects, Dynastat 20 mg or 
40 mg twice daily had no effect on platelet aggregation or bleeding compared to placebo. In young 
subjects, Dynastat 40 mg twice daily had no clinically significant effect on acetylsalicylic 
acid-mediated inhibition of platelet function (see section 4.5). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Following IV or IM injection, parecoxib is rapidly converted to valdecoxib, the pharmacologically 
active substance, by enzymatic hydrolysis in the liver. 
Absorption 
Exposure of valdecoxib following single doses of Dynastat, as measured by both the area under the 
plasma concentration vs. time curve (AUC) and peak concentration (Cmax), is approximately linear in 
the range of clinical doses. AUC and Cmax following twice daily administration is linear up to 50 mg 
IV and 20 mg IM. Steady state plasma concentrations of valdecoxib were reached within 4 days with 
twice daily dosing. 
Following single IV and IM doses of parecoxib 20 mg, Cmax of valdecoxib is achieved in 
approximately 30 minutes and approximately 1 hour, respectively. Exposure to valdecoxib was similar 
in terms of AUC and Cmax following IV and IM administration. Exposure to parecoxib was similar 
after IV or IM administration in terms of AUC. Average Cmax of parecoxib after IM dosing was lower 
compared to bolus IV dosing, which is attributed to slower extravascular absorption after IM 
administration. These decreases were not considered clinically important since Cmax of valdecoxib is 
comparable after IM and IV parecoxib administration. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
The volume of distribution of valdecoxib after its IV administration is approximately 55 litres. Plasma 
protein binding is approximately 98% over the concentration range achieved with the highest 
recommended dose, 80 mg/day. Valdecoxib, but not parecoxib, is extensively partitioned into 
erythrocytes. 
Biotransformation 
Parecoxib is rapidly and almost completely converted to valdecoxib and propionic acid in vivo with a 
plasma half-life of approximately 22 minutes. Elimination of valdecoxib is by extensive hepatic 
metabolism involving multiple pathways, including cytochrome P 450 (CYP) 3A4 and CYP2C9 
isoenzymes and glucuronidation (about 20%) of the sulfonamide moiety. A hydroxylated metabolite of 
valdecoxib (via the CYP pathway) has been identified in human plasma that is active as a COX-2 
inhibitor. It represents approximately 10% of the concentration of valdecoxib; because of this 
metabolite’s low concentration, it is not expected to contribute a significant clinical effect after 
administration of therapeutic doses of parecoxib. 
Elimination 
Valdecoxib is eliminated via hepatic metabolism with less than 5% unchanged valdecoxib recovered in 
the urine. No unchanged parecoxib is detected in urine and only trace amounts in the faeces. About 
70% of the dose is excreted in the urine as inactive metabolites. Plasma clearance (CLp) for valdecoxib 
is about 6 l/hr. After IV or IM dosing of parecoxib, the elimination half-life (t1/2) of valdecoxib is 
about 8 hours. 
Elderly 
Dynastat has been administered to 335 elderly patients (65-96 years of age) in pharmacokinetic and 
therapeutic trials. In healthy elderly subjects, the apparent oral clearance of valdecoxib was reduced, 
resulting in an approximately 40% higher plasma exposure of valdecoxib compared to healthy young 
subjects. When adjusted for body weight, steady state plasma exposure of valdecoxib was 16% higher 
in elderly females compared to elderly males (see section 4.2). 
Renal impairment 
In patients with varying degrees of renal impairment administered 20 mg IV Dynastat, parecoxib was 
rapidly cleared from plasma. Because renal elimination of valdecoxib is not important to its 
disposition, no changes in valdecoxib clearance were found even in patients with severe renal 
impairment or in patients undergoing dialysis (see section 4.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Moderate hepatic impairment did not result in a reduced rate or extent of parecoxib conversion to 
valdecoxib. In patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh score 7-9), treatment should be 
initiated with half the usual recommended dose of Dynastat and the maximum daily dose should be 
reduced to 40 mg since valdecoxib exposures were more than doubled (130%) in these patients. 
Patients with severe hepatic impairment have not been studied and therefore the use of Dynastat in 
patients with severe hepatic impairment is not recommended (see sections 4.2 and 4.3). 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology or repeated dose toxicity at 2-fold the maximum human exposure to parecoxib. 
However, in the repeated dose toxicity studies in dogs and rats, the systemic exposures to valdecoxib 
(the active metabolite of parecoxib) were approximately 0.8-fold the systemic exposure in elderly 
human subjects at the maximum recommended therapeutic dose of 80 mg daily. Higher doses were 
associated with aggravation and delayed healing of skin infections, an effect probably associated with 
COX-2 inhibition. 
In reproduction toxicity tests, the incidence of post-implantation losses, resorptions and foetal body 
weight retardation occurred at doses not producing maternal toxicity in the rabbit studies. No effects of 
parecoxib on male or female fertilities were found in rats. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The effects of parecoxib have not been evaluated in late pregnancy or in the pre- and postnatal period. 
Parecoxib administered intravenously to lactating rats as a single dose showed concentrations of 
parecoxib, valdecoxib and a valdecoxib active metabolite in milk similar to that of maternal plasma. 
The carcinogenic potential of parecoxib has not been evaluated. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Powder 
Disodium hydrogen phosphate 
Phosphoric acid and/or sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment). 
Solvent 
Sodium chloride 
Hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) 
Water for injection. 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except for those mentioned 
in section 6.6. 
Dynastat and opioids should not be administered together in the same syringe. 
Use of Ringer-Lactate solution for injection or glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) in Ringer Lactate solution for 
injection for reconstitution will cause the parecoxib to precipitate from solution and therefore is not 
recommended. 
Use of water for injection is not recommended, as the resulting solution is not isotonic. 
Dynastat should not be injected into an IV line delivering any other medicinal product. The IV line 
must be adequately flushed prior to and after Dynastat injection with a solution of known 
compatibility (see section 6.6). 
Injection into an IV line delivering glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) in Ringer-Lactate solution for injection, or 
other IV fluids not listed in section 6.6, is not recommended as this may cause precipitation from 
solution. 
6.3  Shelf life 
The shelf life of the unreconstituted product is 3 years. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability of the reconstituted solution, which should not be refrigerated or 
frozen, have been demonstrated for up to 24 hours at 25C. Thus, 24 hours should be considered the 
maximum shelf life of the reconstituted product. However, due to the importance of microbiological 
infection risk for injectable products, the reconstituted solution should be used immediately unless 
reconstitution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions. Unless such requirements 
are met, in-storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user, and would not 
normally be longer than 12 hours at 25C. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions prior to reconstitution. 
For storage conditions of the reconstituted medicinal product see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Parecoxib sodium vials 
Type I colourless glass vials (5 ml) with a butyl rubber stopper, sealed with a purple polypropylene 
flip-off cap on the aluminium overseal. 
Solvent ampoules 
2 ml ampoule: colourless neutral glass, Type I. 
Dynastat is supplied as a sterile, single unit-of-use vial that is packaged with a 2 ml ampoule with a fill 
volume of 2 ml sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution (see below for various pack sizes and 
configurations) 
Pack sizes 
1 + 1 pack: contains 1 powder vial and 1 solvent ampoule. 
3 + 3 pack: contains 3 powder vials and 3 solvent ampoules. 
5 + 5 pack: contains 5 powder vials and 5 solvent ampoules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Dynastat must be reconstituted before use. Dynastat is preservative free. Aseptic technique is required 
for its preparation. 
Reconstitution solvents 
Reconstitute Dynastat 40 mg with 2 ml sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution. 
The only other acceptable solvents for reconstitution are: 
•  glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for infusion 
• 
sodium chloride 4.5 mg/ml (0.45%) and glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for injection/infusion 
Reconstitution process 
Use aseptic technique to reconstitute lyophilised parecoxib (as parecoxib). 
Remove the purple flip-off cap to expose the central portion of the rubber stopper of the 40 mg 
parecoxib vial. Withdraw, with a sterile needle and syringe, 2 ml of an acceptable solvent and insert 
the needle through the central portion of the rubber stopper transferring the solvent into the 40 mg vial. 
Dissolve the powder completely using a gentle swirling motion and inspect the reconstituted product 
before use. The entire contents of the vial should be withdrawn for a single administration. 
After reconstitution, the liquid should be a clear solution. Dynastat should be inspected visually for 
particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. The solution should not be used if 
discolored or cloudy, or if particulate matter is observed. Dynastat should be administered within 
24 hours of reconstitution (see section 6.3), or discarded. 
The reconstituted product is isotonic. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IV line solution compatibility 
After reconstitution with acceptable solvents, Dynastat may only be injected IV or IM, or into IV lines 
delivering: 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection/infusion; 
• 
•  glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for infusion; 
• 
sodium chloride 4.5 mg/ml (0.45%) and glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for 
injection/infusion; 
  or 
•  Ringer-Lactate solution for injection. 
For single use only. Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in 
accordance with local requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/02/209/006-008 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 22 March 2002 
Date of latest renewal: 24 January 2012 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Pfizer Manufacturing Belgium NV 
Rijksweg 12 
2870 Puurs-Sint-Amands 
Belgium 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C. 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
  Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
  Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
• Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON: 40 mg vials 
CARTON TEXT - EU/1/02/209/005 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Dynastat 40 mg powder for solution for injection 
parecoxib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 40 mg parecoxib, as 42.36 mg parecoxib sodium. After reconstitution with 2 ml of 
solvent, the concentration of parecoxib is 20 mg/ml. Thus, each 2 ml of reconstituted solution contains 
40 mg of parecoxib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains disodium hydrogen phosphate, phosphoric acid and sodium hydroxide. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for solution for injection 
10 vials 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use.  
For single use only. 
Intravenous or intramuscular use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
The reconstituted product should be used immediately (up to 24 hours if prepared aseptically), and 
should not be frozen or refrigerated. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions prior to reconstitution. For 
more information on storage see the package leaflet. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/02/209/005 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Dynastat 40 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL: 40 mg 
TEXT FOR VIAL LABEL - EU/1/02/209/005 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Dynastat 40 mg powder for injection 
parecoxib 
IV/IM 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6. 
OTHER 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON: 40 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection 
CARTON TEXT - EU/1/02/209/006 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Dynastat 40 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection 
parecoxib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 40 mg parecoxib, as 42.36 mg parecoxib sodium. After reconstitution with 2 ml of 
solvent, the concentration of parecoxib is 20 mg/ml. Thus, each 2 ml of reconstituted solution provides 
40 mg of parecoxib. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains disodium hydrogen phosphate, phosphoric acid and sodium hydroxide. 
2 ml solvent ampoule contains sodium chloride, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide and water for 
injection. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder and solvent for solution for injection 
1 vial and 1 solvent ampoule 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use.  
For single use only. 
Intravenous or intramuscular use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
41  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
The reconstituted product should be used immediately (up to 24 hours if prepared aseptically), and 
should not be frozen or refrigerated. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions prior to reconstitution. For 
more information on storage see the package leaflet. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/02/209/006 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Dynastat 40 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
42  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
43  
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON TEXT: 40 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection 
CARTON TEXT - EU/1/02/209/007 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Dynastat 40 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection 
parecoxib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 40 mg parecoxib, as 42.36 mg parecoxib sodium. After reconstitution with 2 ml of 
solvent, the concentration of parecoxib is 20 mg/ml. Thus, each 2 ml of reconstituted solution provides 
40 mg of parecoxib  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains disodium hydrogen phosphate, phosphoric acid and sodium hydroxide. 
2 ml solvent ampoule contains sodium chloride, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide and water for 
injection. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder and solvent for solution for injection 
3 vials and 3 solvent ampoules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For single use only. 
Intravenous or intramuscular use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
44  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
The reconstituted product should be used immediately (up to 24 hours if prepared aseptically), and 
should not be frozen or refrigerated. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions prior to reconstitution. For 
more information on storage see the package leaflet. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/02/209/007 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Dynastat 40 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
45  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
46  
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON TEXT: 40 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection 
CARTON TEXT - EU/1/02/209/008 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Dynastat 40 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection 
parecoxib 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 40 mg parecoxib, as 42.36 mg parecoxib sodium. After reconstitution with 2 ml of 
solvent, the concentration of parecoxib is 20 mg/ml. Thus, each 2 ml of reconstituted solution provides 
40 mg of parecoxib  
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains disodium hydrogen phosphate, phosphoric acid and sodium hydroxide. 
2 ml solvent ampoule contains sodium chloride, hydrochloric acid, sodium hydroxide and water for 
injection. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder and solvent for solution for injection 
5 vials and 5 solvent ampoules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For single use only. 
Intravenous or intramuscular use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
47  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
The reconstituted product should be used immediately (up to 24 hours if prepared aseptically), and 
should not be frozen or refrigerated.   
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions prior to reconstitution. For 
more information on storage see the package leaflet. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/02/209/008 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Dynastat 40 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
48  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
49  
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL: 40 mg 
TEXT FOR VIAL LABEL - EU/1/02/209/006, EU/1/02/209/007 and EU/1/02/209/008 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Dynastat 40 mg powder for injection 
parecoxib 
IV/IM 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6. 
OTHER 
50  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
SOLVENT AMPOULE LABEL : 2 ml 
TEXT FOR AMPOULE LABEL - EU/1/02/209/006, EU/1/02/209/007 and EU/1/02/209/008 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Solvent for Dynastat 40 mg 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
2 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
51  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
52  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Dynastat 40 mg powder for solution for injection 
parecoxib 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have further questions, ask your doctor or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Dynastat is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Dynastat 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Dynastat 
Possible side effects 
How to store Dynastat  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Dynastat is and what it is used for 
Dynastat contains the active substance parecoxib. 
Dynastat is used for the short-term treatment of pain in adults after an operation. It is one of a family 
of medicines called COX-2 inhibitors (this is short for cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitors). Pain and 
swelling are sometimes caused by substances in the body called prostaglandins. Dynastat works by 
lowering the amount of these prostaglandins. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Dynastat 
Do not use Dynastat 
- 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to parecoxib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6) 
if you have had a serious allergic reaction (especially a serious skin reaction) to any medicines 
if you have had an allergic reaction to a group of medicines called “sulfonamides” (e.g. some 
antibiotics used to treat infections) 
if you currently have a gastric or intestinal ulcer or bleeding in the stomach or gut 
if you have had an allergic reaction to acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) or to other NSAIDs (e.g. 
ibuprofen) or to COX-2 inhibitors. Reactions might include wheezing (bronchospasm), badly 
blocked nose, itchy skin, rash or swelling of the face, lips or tongue, other allergic reactions or 
nasal polyps after taking these medicines 
if you are more than 6 months pregnant 
if you are breast-feeding 
if you have severe liver disease 
if you have inflammation of the intestines (ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease) 
if you have heart failure  
if you are about to have heart surgery or surgery on your arteries (including any coronary artery 
procedure) 
if you have established heart disease and /or cerebrovascular disease e.g. if you have had a heart 
attack, stroke, mini-stroke (TIA) or blockages to blood vessels to the heart or brain or an operation 
to clear or bypass blockages 
if you have or have had problems with your blood circulation (peripheral arterial disease) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
53  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any of these applies to you, you will not be given the injection. Tell your doctor or nurse 
immediately. 
Warnings and precautions 
Do not use Dynastat if you currently have a gastric or intestinal ulcer or gastrointestinal bleeding 
Do not use Dynastat if you have severe liver disease 
Talk to your doctor or nurse before using Dynastat: 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
If you have previously had an ulcer, bleeding, or perforation of the gastrointestinal tract 
If you have had a skin reaction (e.g. a rash, hives, welts, blisters, red streaks) with any medicine 
If you are taking acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin), or other NSAIDs (e.g. ibuprofen) 
If you smoke or drink alcohol 
If you have diabetes 
If you have angina, blood clots, high blood pressure, or raised cholesterol 
If you are taking antiplatelet therapies 
If you have fluid retention (oedema) 
If you have liver or kidney disease 
If you are dehydrated – this may happen if you have had diarrhoea or have been vomiting (being 
sick) or unable to drink fluids 
If you have an infection as it may hide a fever (which is a sign of infection) 
If you use medicines to reduce blood clotting (e.g. warfarin/warfarin like anticoagulants or novel 
oral anti-clotting medicines, e.g. apixaban, dabigatran, and rivaroxaban) 
If you use medicines called corticosteroids (e.g. prednisone) 
If you use a class of medicines used to treat depression called selective serotonin re-uptake 
inhibitors (e.g. sertraline) 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
Dynastat can lead to an increase in blood pressure or worsening of existing high blood pressure which 
may result in an increase in side effects associated with heart conditions. Your doctor may want to 
monitor your blood pressure during treatment with Dynastat. 
Potentially life-threatening skin rashes may occur with the use of Dynastat and treatment should be 
discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash, blistering and peeling of the skin, mucosal lesions, or 
any other sign of hypersensitivity. If you develop a rash, other skin, or mucosal (such as inside of 
cheeks or lips) signs and symptoms, seek immediate advice from a doctor and tell them that you are 
taking this medicine. 
Children and adolescents 
Children and adolescents under the age of 18 should not be given Dynastat. 
Other medicines and Dynastat 
Tell your doctor or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Medicines can sometimes interfere with each other. Your doctor may reduce the dose of Dynastat or 
other medicines, or you may need to take a different medicine. It’s especially important to mention: 
▪  Acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) or other anti-inflammatory medicines 
▪  Fluconazole – used for fungal infections 
▪  ACE inhibitors, Angiotensin-II inhibitors, beta blockers and diuretics – used for high blood 
pressure and heart conditions 
▪  Ciclosporin or Tacrolimus – used after transplants 
▪  Warfarin – or other warfarin like medicines used to prevent blood clots including newer medicines 
like apixaban, dabigatran, and rivaroxaban 
▪  Lithium – used to treat depression 
▪  Rifampicin – used for bacterial infections 
▪  Antiarrhythmics – used to treat an irregular heartbeat 
▪  Phenytoin or Carbamazepine – used for epilepsy 
▪  Methotrexate – used for rheumatoid arthritis and cancer 
54  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
▪  Diazepam – used for sedation and anxiety 
▪  Omeprazole – used for treating ulcers 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
▪  Dynastat must not be used if you are in the last 3 months of pregnancy as it could harm your 
unborn child or cause problems at delivery. It can cause kidney and heart problems in your unborn 
baby. It may affect your and your baby’s tendency to bleed and cause labour to be later or longer 
than expected. Dynastat should not be used during the first 6 months of pregnancy unless 
absolutely necessary and advised by your doctor. If you need treatment during this period or while 
you are trying to get pregnant, the lowest dose for the shortest time possible should be used. If 
used for more than a few days from 20 weeks of pregnancy onward, Dynastat can cause kidney 
problems in your unborn baby that may lead to low levels of amniotic fluid that surrounds the 
baby (oligohydramnios) or narrowing of a blood vessel (ductus arteriosus) in the heart of the baby. 
If you need treatment for longer than a few days, your doctor may recommend additional 
monitoring. 
If you are breast-feeding, you must not receive Dynastat, as a small amount of Dynastat will be 
transferred to your breast milk. 
▪ 
▪  NSAIDs, including Dynastat, may make it more difficult to become pregnant. You should tell 
your doctor if you are planning to become pregnant or if you have problems becoming pregnant. 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or nurse for advice before taking this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
If the injection makes you feel dizzy or tired, do not drive or use machines until you feel better again. 
Dynastat contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per ml that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.  
3. 
How to use Dynastat 
Dynastat will be given to you by a doctor or nurse. They will dissolve the powder before giving you 
the injection, and will inject the solution into a vein or a muscle. The injection may be given rapidly 
and directly into a vein or into an existing intravenous line (a thin tube running into a vein), or it can 
be given slowly and deeply into a muscle. You will only be given Dynastat for short periods, and only 
for pain relief. 
The usual dose to start with is 40 mg. 
You may be given another dose – either 20 mg or 40 mg – 6 to 12 hours after the first one. 
You will not be given more than 80 mg in 24 hours. 
Some people may be given lower doses: 
▪  People with liver problems 
▪  People with severe kidney problems 
▪  Patients over 65 who weigh less than 50 kg 
▪  People taking fluconazole. 
If Dynastat is used with strong pain killers (called opioid analgesics) such as morphine the dose 
of Dynastat will be the same as explained above. 
If you are given more Dynastat than you should you may experience side effects that have been 
reported with recommended doses. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse. 
55  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Stop taking Dynastat and tell your doctor immediately: 
- 
if you develop a rash or ulceration in any part of your body (e.g. skin, mouth, eyes, face, lips or 
tongue), or develop any other signs of an allergic reaction such as skin rash, swelling of the 
face, lips or tongue which may cause wheezing, difficulty breathing, or swallowing – this occurs 
rarely 
if you have blistering or peeling of the skin - this occurs rarely 
the onset of skin reactions can occur at any time but most often occur in the first month of 
treatment; the reported rate of these events appears to be greater for valdecoxib, a medicine 
related to parecoxib, as compared to other COX-2 inhibitors 
if you have jaundice (your skin or the whites of your eyes appear yellow) 
if you have any signs of bleeding in the stomach or intestine, such as passing a black or 
blood-stained bowel movement or vomiting blood 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
▪  Nausea (feeling sick) 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
▪  Change in your blood pressure (up or down) 
▪  You may get back pain 
▪  Ankles, legs and feet may swell (fluid retention) 
▪  You may feel numb – your skin may lose sensitivity to pain and touch 
▪  You may get vomiting, stomach ache, indigestion, constipation, bloating and wind 
▪  Tests may show abnormal kidney function 
▪  You may feel agitated or find it hard to sleep 
▪  Dizziness 
▪  There is a risk of anaemia - changes in red blood cells after an operation that may cause fatigue 
and breathlessness 
▪  You may get a sore throat or difficulty breathing (shortness of breath) 
▪  Your skin may be itchy 
▪  You may pass less urine than usual. 
▪  Dry socket (inflammation and pain after a tooth extraction) 
▪ 
▪  Low levels of potassium in blood test results 
Increased sweating 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
▪  Heart attack 
▪  There is a risk of cerebrovascular disease e.g. stroke, or transient ischaemic attack (transient 
reduced blood flow to the brain)/mini-stroke or angina, or blockages to blood vessels to the heart 
or brain  
▪  Blood clot in the lungs 
▪  Worsening of high blood pressure 
▪  Ulcers in the digestive system, chronic stomach acid reflux 
▪  The heart may beat more slowly 
▪  Low blood pressure on standing 
▪  Blood tests may show abnormal liver function 
▪  You may bruise easily due to a low blood platelet count 
▪  Surgical wounds may become infected, abnormal discharge from surgical wounds 
▪  Skin discolouration or bruising 
▪  Complications with skin healing after operations 
▪  High sugar levels in blood tests 
▪ 
Injection site pain or injection site reaction 
56  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
▪  Rash, or raised itchy rash (hives) 
▪  Anorexia (loss of appetite) 
▪ 
▪  High levels of blood enzymes in blood tests that indicate injury or stress to the heart, the brain, or 
Joint pain 
muscle tissue 
▪  Dry mouth 
▪  Muscle weakness 
▪  Ear ache 
▪  Unusual abdominal sounds 
Rare: may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people 
▪  Rash or ulceration in any part of your body (e.g. skin, mouth, eyes, face, lips or tongue), or any 
other signs of allergic reactions such as skin rash, swelling of the face, lips and tongue, wheezing, 
difficulty breathing or swallowing (potentially fatal) 
▪  Swelling, blistering or peeling of the skin 
▪  Acute kidney failure 
▪  Hepatitis (inflamed liver) 
▪ 
▪ 
Inflammation of the gullet (oesophagus) 
Inflammation of the pancreas (can lead to stomach pain) 
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data 
▪  Collapse due to severe low blood pressure 
▪  Heart failure 
▪  Kidney failure 
▪  Racing or irregularity of the heartbeat 
▪  Breathlessness 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5.  How to store Dynastat 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the vial label after 
Exp. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions prior to reconstitution. 
It is recommended that Dynastat is used as soon as possible after it is mixed with solvent, although it 
may be stored if the instructions at the end of the leaflet are strictly followed. 
The injection solution should be a clear colourless liquid. If there are particles in the injection 
solution or if either the powder or solution is discoloured, the solution will not be used. 
57  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Dynastat contains 
-  The active substance is parecoxib (as parecoxib sodium). Each vial contains 40 mg parecoxib, as 
42.36 mg parecoxib sodium. When reconstituted with 2 ml solvent, provides 20 mg/ml of 
parecoxib. When reconstituted in sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution, Dynastat contains 
approximately 0.44 mEq of sodium per vial. 
-  The other ingredients are: 
Disodium hydrogen phosphate 
Phosphoric acid and/or sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment). 
What Dynastat looks like and contents of the pack 
Dynastat is available as a white to off-white powder. 
The powder is contained in colourless glass vials (5 ml) with a stopper, sealed with a purple flip-off 
cap on the aluminium overseal. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: Pfizer Europe MA EEIG, Boulevard de la Plaine 17, 1050 Bruxelles, 
Belgium 
Manufacturer: Pfizer Manufacturing Belgium NV, Rijksweg 12, 2870 Puurs-Sint-Amands, Belgium 
For any information about this medicinal product, please contact the local representative of the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Pfizer NV/SA 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11 
Lietuva 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas Lietuvoje. 
Tel: +370 5 251 4000 
България  
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ, Клон България 
Тел.: +359 2 970 4333 
Magyarország 
Pfizer Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 488 37 00 
Česká republika 
Pfizer, spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +420 283 004 111 
Danmark 
Pfizer ApS 
Tlf: +45 44 20 11 00 
Deutschland 
Pfizer Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000 
Malta 
Vivian Corporation Ltd. 
Tel: +356 21344610 
Nederland 
Pfizer bv 
Tel: +31 (0)800 63 34 636 
Norge 
Pfizer AS 
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00 
Eesti 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 666 7500 
Österreich 
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0 
58  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα 
PFIZER Ελλάς A.E. 
Τλ: +30 210 6785800 
España 
Pfizer, S.L. 
Tel: +34 91 490 99 00 
France 
Pfizer 
Tél: +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40 
Hrvatska 
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 3908 777 
Ireland 
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland 
Tel: 1800 633 363 (toll free) 
+ 44 (0)1304 616161 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Pfizer S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21 
Polska 
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00 
Portugal 
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda. 
Tel: +351 21 423 5500 
România 
Pfizer Romania S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 (0)21 207 28 00 
Slovenija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL 
Pfizer, podružnica za svetovanje s področja 
farmacevtske dejavnosti, Ljubljana 
Tel: +386 (0)152 11 400 
Slovenská republika 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka 
Tel: +421 2 3355 5500 
Suomi/Finland 
Pfizer Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358(0)9 43 00 40 
Sverige  
Pfizer AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00 
Κύπρος 
PFIZER Ελλάς Α.Ε. (Cyprus Branch)  
Τηλ: +357 22817690 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Pfizer Limited 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Latvija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā  
Tel: +371 670 35 775 
This leaflet was last revised in <{MM/YYYY}><{month YYYY}>. 
<------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
59  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only 
Dosing. The recommended dose is 40 mg administered intravenously (IV) or intramuscularly (IM), 
followed every 6 to 12 hours by 20 mg or 40 mg as required, not to exceed 80 mg/day. The IV bolus 
injection may be given rapidly and directly into a vein or into an existing IV line. The IM injection 
should be given slowly and deeply into the muscle. 
There is limited clinical experience with Dynastat treatment beyond three days. 
As the cardiovascular risk of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) specific inhibitors may increase with dose 
and duration of exposure, the shortest duration possible and the lowest effective daily dose should be 
used.  
Cases of severe hypotension shortly following parecoxib administration have been reported in 
post-marketing experience with parecoxib. Some of these cases have occurred without other signs of 
anaphylaxis. The physician should be prepared to treat severe hypotension. 
Administration is by intramuscular (IM) or intravenous (IV) injection. The IM injection is to be 
given slowly and deeply into the muscle and the IV bolus injection may be given rapidly and directly 
into a vein or into an existing IV line. 
Administration other than IV or IM 
Modes of administration other than IV or IM (e.g. intra-articular, intrathecal) have not been studied 
and should not be used. 
Reconstitution solvents 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products. It is to be reconstituted 
only with one of the following: 
• sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection/infusion;  
• glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for infusion; or 
• sodium chloride 4.5 mg/ml (0.45%) and glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for 
injection/infusion. 
The following solutions cannot be used for reconstitution: 
• Use of Ringer-Lactate solution for injection or glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) in Ringer-Lactate 
solution for injection for reconstitution will cause the parecoxib to precipitate from solution 
and therefore is not recommended. 
• Use of Sterile Water for Injection for reconstitution is not recommended, as the resulting 
solution is not isotonic. 
Reconstitution process 
Use aseptic technique to reconstitute lyophilised parecoxib (as parecoxib sodium). 
40 mg vial: Remove the purple flip-off cap to expose the central portion of the rubber stopper of the 
parecoxib 40 mg vial. Withdraw with a sterile needle and syringe, 2 ml of an acceptable solvent and 
insert the needle through the central portion of the rubber stopper transferring the solvent into the 
parecoxib 40 mg vial. 
Dissolve the powder completely using a gentle swirling motion and inspect the reconstituted product 
before use. 
The reconstituted solution must not be used if discoloured or cloudy or if particulate matter is 
observed. 
The entire contents of the vial should be withdrawn for a single administration. If a dose lower 
than 40 mg is required, excess medicine should be discarded. 
IV line solution compatibility 
60  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Precipitation may occur when Dynastat is combined in solution with other medicinal products and 
therefore Dynastat must not be mixed with any other drug, either during reconstitution or injection. In 
those patients where the same IV line is to be used to inject another medicinal product, the line must 
be adequately flushed prior to and after Dynastat injection with a solution of known compatibility. 
After reconstitution with acceptable solvents, Dynastat may only be injected IV or IM, or into 
IV lines delivering the following: 
• sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection/infusion; 
• glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for infusion;  
• sodium chloride 4.5 mg/ml (0.45%) and glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for 
injection/infusion; or 
• Ringer-Lactate solution for injection. 
It is not recommended to inject into an IV line delivering glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) in Ringer-Lactate 
solution for injection, or other IV fluids not listed in this section, as this may cause precipitation from 
solution. 
The solution is for single use only and must not be stored in a refrigerator or freezer. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability of the reconstituted solution have been demonstrated for up to 
24 hours at 25C. Thus, 24 hours should be considered the maximum shelf life of the reconstituted 
product. However, due to the importance of microbiological infection risk for injectable products, the 
reconstituted solution should be used immediately unless reconstitution has taken place in controlled 
and validated aseptic conditions. Unless such requirements are met, in-storage times and conditions 
prior to use are the responsibility of the user, and would not normally be longer than 12 hours at 25C. 
61  
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Dynastat 40 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection 
parecoxib 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have further questions, ask your doctor or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Dynastat is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Dynastat 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Dynastat 
Possible side effects 
How to store Dynastat  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Dynastat is and what it is used for 
Dynastat contains the active substance parecoxib. 
Dynastat is used for the short-term treatment of pain in adults after an operation. It is one of a family 
of medicines called COX-2 inhibitors (this is short for cyclo-oxygenase-2 inhibitors). Pain and 
swelling are sometimes caused by substances in the body called prostaglandins. Dynastat works by 
lowering the amount of these prostaglandins. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Dynastat 
Do not take Dynastat 
- 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to parecoxib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6) 
if you have had a serious allergic reaction (especially a serious skin reaction) to any medicines 
if you have had an allergic reaction to a group of medicines called “sulfonamides” (e.g. some 
antibiotics used to treat infections) 
if you currently have a gastric or intestinal ulcer or bleeding in the stomach or gut 
if you have had an allergic reaction to acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) or to other NSAIDs (e.g. 
ibuprofen) or to COX-2 inhibitors. Reactions might include wheezing (bronchospasm), badly 
blocked nose, itchy skin, rash or swelling of the face, lips or tongue, other allergic reactions or 
nasal polyps after taking these medicines 
if you are more than 6 months pregnant 
if you are breast-feeding 
if you have severe liver disease 
if you have inflammation of the intestines (ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease) 
if you have heart failure  
if you are about to have heart surgery or surgery on your arteries (including any coronary artery 
procedure)  
if you have established heart disease and /or cerebrovascular disease e.g. if you have had a heart 
attack, stroke, mini-stroke (TIA) or blockages to blood vessels to the heart or brain or an operation 
to clear or bypass blockages 
if you have or have had problems with your blood circulation (peripheral arterial disease) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If any of these applies to you, you will not be given the injection. Tell your doctor or nurse 
immediately. 
62  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Do not use Dynastat if you currently have a gastric or intestinal ulcer or gastrointestinal bleeding 
Do not use Dynastat if you have severe liver disease 
Talk to your doctor or nurse before using Dynastat: 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
If you have previously had an ulcer, bleeding or perforation of the gastrointestinal tract 
If you have had a skin reaction (e.g. a rash, hives, welts, blisters, red streaks) with any medicine 
If you are taking acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) or other NSAIDs (e.g. ibuprofen) 
If you smoke or drink alcohol 
If you have diabetes 
If you have angina, blood clots, high blood pressure or raised cholesterol 
If you are taking antiplatelet therapies 
If you have fluid retention (oedema) 
If you have liver or kidney disease. 
If you are dehydrated – this may happen if you have had diarrhoea or have been vomiting (being 
sick) or unable to drink fluids 
If you have an infection as it may hide a fever (which is a sign of infection) 
If you use medicines to reduce blood clotting (e.g. warfarin/warfarin like anticoagulants or novel 
oral anti-clotting medicines, e.g. apixaban, dabigatran, and rivaroxaban) 
If you use medicines called corticosteroids (e.g. prednisone) 
If you use a class of medicines used to treat depression called selective serotonin re-uptake 
inhibitors (e.g. sertraline) 
Dynastat can lead to an increase in blood pressure or worsening of existing high blood pressure which 
may result in an increase in side effects associated with heart conditions. Your doctor may want to 
monitor your blood pressure during treatment with Dynastat. 
Potentially life-threatening skin rashes may occur with the use of Dynastat and treatment should be 
discontinued at the first appearance of skin rash, blistering and peeling of the skin, mucosal lesions, or 
any other sign of hypersensitivity. If you develop a rash, other skin, or mucosal (such as inside of 
cheeks or lips) signs and symptoms, seek immediate advice from a doctor and tell them that you are 
taking this medicine. 
Children and adolescents  
Children and adolescents under the age of 18 should not be given Dynastat. 
Other medicines and Dynastat 
Tell your doctor or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Medicines can sometimes interfere with each other. Your doctor may reduce the dose of Dynastat or 
other medicines, or you may need to take a different medicine. It’s especially important to mention: 
▪  Acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) or other anti-inflammatory medicines 
▪  Fluconazole – used for fungal infections 
▪  ACE inhibitors, Angiotensin-II inhibitors, beta blockers and diuretics – used for high blood 
pressure and heart conditions 
▪  Ciclosporin or Tacrolimus – used after transplants 
▪  Warfarin – or other warfarin like medicines used to prevent blood clots including newer medicines 
like apixaban, dabigatran, and rivaroxaban 
▪  Lithium – used to treat depression 
▪  Rifampicin – used for bacterial infections 
▪  Antiarrhythmics – used to treat an irregular heartbeat 
▪  Phenytoin or Carbamazepine – used for epilepsy 
▪  Methotrexate – used for rheumatoid arthritis and cancer 
63  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
▪  Diazepam – used for sedation and anxiety 
▪  Omeprazole – used for treating ulcers 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
▪  Dynastat must not be used if you are in the last 3 months of pregnancy as it could harm your 
unborn child or cause problems at delivery. It can cause kidney and heart problems in your unborn 
baby. It may affect your and your baby’s tendency to bleed and cause labour to be later or longer 
than expected. Dynastat should not be used during the first 6 months of pregnancy unless 
absolutely necessary and advised by your doctor. If you need treatment during this period or while 
you are trying to get pregnant, the lowest dose for the shortest time possible should be used. If 
used for more than a few days from 20 weeks of pregnancy onward, Dynastat can cause kidney 
problems in your unborn baby that may lead to low levels of amniotic fluid that surrounds the 
baby (oligohydramnios) or narrowing of a blood vessel (ductus arteriosus) in the heart of the baby. 
If you need treatment for longer than a few days, your doctor may recommend additional 
monitoring. 
If you are breast-feeding, you must not receive Dynastat, as a small amount of Dynastat will be 
transferred to your breast milk. 
▪ 
▪  NSAIDs, including Dynastat, may make it more difficult to become pregnant. You should tell 
your doctor if you are planning to become pregnant or if you have problems becoming pregnant. 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or nurse for advice before taking this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
If the injection makes you feel dizzy or tired, do not drive or use machines until you feel better again. 
Dynastat contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per ml, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3.  How to use Dynastat 
Dynastat will be given to you by a doctor or nurse. They will dissolve the powder before giving you 
the injection, and will inject the solution into a vein or a muscle. The injection may be given rapidly 
and directly into a vein or into an existing intravenous line (a thin tube running into a vein), or it can 
be given slowly and deeply into a muscle. You will only be given Dynastat for short periods, and only 
for pain relief. 
The usual dose to start with is 40 mg. 
You may be given another dose – either 20 mg or 40 mg – 6 to 12 hours after the first one.  
You will not be given more than 80 mg in 24 hours. 
Some people may be given lower doses:  
▪  People with liver problems 
▪  People with severe kidney problems 
▪  Patients over 65 who weigh less than 50 kg 
▪  People taking fluconazole. 
If Dynastat is used with strong pain killers (called opioid analgesics) such as morphine the dose 
of Dynastat will be the same as explained above. 
If you are given more Dynastat than you should you may experience side effects that have been 
reported with recommended doses. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse. 
64  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Stop taking Dynastat and tell your doctor immediately: 
- 
if you develop a rash or ulceration in any part of your body (e.g. skin, mouth, eyes, face, lips or 
tongue), or develop any other signs of an allergic reaction such as skin rash, swelling of the face, 
lips or tongue which may cause wheezing, difficulty breathing, or swallowing – this occurs rarely 
if you have blistering or peeling of the skin – this occurs rarely 
the onset of skin reactions can occur at any time but most often occur in the first month of 
treatment; the reported rate of these events appears to be greater for valdecoxib, a medicine 
related to parecoxib, as compared to other COX-2 inhibitors 
if you have jaundice (your skin or the whites of your eyes appear yellow) 
if you have any signs of bleeding in the stomach or intestine, such as passing a black or 
blood-stained bowel movement or vomiting blood 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
▪  Nausea (feeling sick) 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
▪  Change in your blood pressure (up or down) 
▪  You may get back pain 
▪  Ankles, legs and feet may swell (fluid retention) 
▪  You may feel numb – your skin may lose sensitivity to pain and touch 
▪  You may get vomiting, stomach ache, indigestion, constipation, bloating and wind 
▪  Tests may show abnormal kidney function 
▪  You may feel agitated or find it hard to sleep 
▪  Dizziness 
▪  There is a risk of anaemia - changes in red blood cells after an operation that may cause fatigue 
and breathlessness 
▪  You may get a sore throat or difficulty breathing (shortness of breath) 
▪  Your skin may be itchy 
▪  You may pass less urine than usual. 
▪  Dry socket (inflammation and pain after a tooth extraction) 
▪ 
▪  Low levels of potassium in blood test results 
Increased sweating 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
▪  Heart attack 
▪  There is a risk of cerebrovascular disease e.g. stroke, or transient ischaemic attack (transient 
reduced blood flow to the brain)/mini-stroke or angina, or blockages to blood vessels to the heart 
or brain  
▪  Blood clot in the lungs 
▪  Worsening of high blood pressure 
▪  Ulcers in the digestive system, chronic stomach acid reflux 
▪  The heart may beat more slowly 
▪  Low blood pressure on standing 
▪  Blood tests may show abnormal liver function  
▪  You may bruise easily due to a low blood platelet count 
▪  Surgical wounds may become infected, abnormal discharge from surgical wounds 
▪  Skin discolouration or bruising 
▪  Complications with skin healing after operations 
▪  High sugar levels in blood tests 
▪ 
▪  Rash, or raised itchy rash (hives) 
Injection site pain or injection site reaction 
65  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
▪  Anorexia (loss of appetite) 
▪ 
▪  High levels of blood enzymes in blood tests that indicate injury or stress to the heart, the brain, or 
Joint pain 
muscle tissue. 
▪  Dry mouth 
▪  Muscle weakness 
▪  Ear ache 
▪  Unusual abdominal sounds  
Rare: may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people 
▪  Rash or ulceration in any part of your body (e.g. skin, mouth, eyes, face, lips or tongue), or any 
other signs of allergic reactions such as skin rash, swelling of the face, lips and tongue, wheezing, 
difficulty breathing or swallowing (potentially fatal) 
▪  Swelling, blistering or peeling of the skin  
▪  Acute kidney failure 
▪  Hepatitis (inflamed liver) 
▪ 
▪ 
Inflammation of the gullet (oesophagus) 
Inflammation of the pancreas (can lead to stomach pain) 
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data 
▪  Collapse due to severe low blood pressure 
▪  Heart failure 
▪  Kidney failure 
▪  Racing or irregularity of the heartbeat 
▪  Breathlessness 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store Dynastat 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the vial label after 
Exp. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions prior to reconstitution. 
It is recommended that Dynastat is used as soon as possible after it is mixed with solvent, although it 
may be stored if the instructions at the end of the leaflet are strictly followed. 
The injection solution should be a clear colourless liquid. If there are particles in the injection 
solution or if either the powder or solution is discoloured, the solution will not be used. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Dynastat contains  
-  The active substance is parecoxib (as parecoxib sodium). Each vial contains 40 mg parecoxib, as 
42.36 mg parecoxib sodium. When reconstituted with 2 ml solvent, provides 20 mg/ml of 
parecoxib. When reconstituted in sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution, Dynastat contains 
approximately 0.44 mEq of sodium per vial. 
66  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  The other ingredients are: 
Powder 
Disodium hydrogen phosphate 
Phosphoric acid and/or sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment). 
Solvent 
Sodium chloride 
Hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) 
Water for injection. 
What Dynastat looks like and contents of the pack 
Dynastat is available as a white to off-white powder. 
The powder is contained in colourless glass vials (5 ml) with a stopper, sealed with a purple flip-off 
cap on the aluminium overseal. 
The solvent is contained in colourless neutral glass ampoules (2 ml). 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: Pfizer Europe MA EEIG, Boulevard de la Plaine 17, 1050 Bruxelles, 
Belgium 
Manufacturer: Pfizer Manufacturing Belgium NV, Rijksweg 12, 2870 Puurs-Sint-Amands, Belgium 
For any information about this medicinal product, please contact the local representative of the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Pfizer NV/SA 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11 
Lietuva 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas Lietuvoje. 
Tel: +370 5 251 4000 
България  
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ, Клон България  
Тел.: +359 2 970 4333 
Magyarország 
Pfizer Kft.  
Tel.: +36 1 488 37 00  
Česká republika 
Pfizer, spol. s r.o.  
Tel: +420 283 004 111 
Danmark 
Pfizer ApS 
Tlf: +45 44 20 11 00 
Deutschland 
Pfizer Pharma GmbH 
Tel:+49 (0)30 550055-51000 
Malta 
Vivian Corporation Ltd. 
Tel: +356 21344610 
Nederland 
Pfizer bv 
Tel: +31 (0)800 63 34 636 
Norge 
Pfizer AS 
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00 
Eesti 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 666 7500 
Österreich 
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0 
67  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα 
PFIZER Ελλάς A.E. 
Τλ: +30 210 6785800 
España 
Pfizer, S.L. 
Tel: +34 91 490 99 00 
France 
Pfizer 
Tél: +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40 
Hrvatska 
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 3908 777 
Ireland 
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland 
Tel: 1800 633 363 (toll free) 
+44 (0)1304 616161 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Pfizer S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21 
Polska 
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o.  
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00 
Portugal 
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda. 
Tel: +351 21 423 5500 
România 
Pfizer Romania S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 (0)21 207 28 00 
Slovenija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL 
Pfizer, podružnica za svetovanje s področja 
farmacevtske dejavnosti, Ljubljana 
Tel: +386 (0)152 11 400 
Slovenská republika 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka 
Tel: +421 2 3355 5500 
Suomi/Finland 
Pfizer Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358(0)9 43 00 40 
Sverige  
Pfizer AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00 
Κύπρος 
PFIZER Ελλάς Α.Ε. (Cyprus Branch)   
Τηλ: +357 22817690 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Pfizer Limited 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Latvija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā  
Tel: +371 670 35 775 
This leaflet was last revised in <{MM/YYYY}><{month YYYY}>. 
<------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
68  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only 
Dosing. The recommended dose is 40 mg administered intravenously (IV) or intramuscularly (IM), 
followed every 6 to 12 hours by 20 mg or 40 mg as required, not to exceed 80 mg/day. The IV bolus 
injection may be given rapidly and directly into a vein or into an existing IV line. The IM injection 
should be given slowly and deeply into the muscle. 
There is limited clinical experience with Dynastat treatment beyond three days. 
As the cardiovascular risk of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) specific inhibitors may increase with dose 
and duration of exposure, the shortest duration possible and the lowest effective daily dose should be 
used.  
Cases of severe hypotension shortly following parecoxib administration have been reported in 
post-marketing experience with parecoxib. Some of these cases have occurred without other signs of 
anaphylaxis. The physician should be prepared to treat severe hypotension. 
Administration is by intramuscular (IM) or intravenous (IV) injection. The IM injection is to be 
given slowly and deeply into the muscle and the IV bolus injection may be given rapidly and directly 
into a vein or into an existing IV line.  
Administration other than IV or IM 
Modes of administration other than IV or IM (e.g. intra-articular, intrathecal) have not been studied 
and should not be used.  
Reconstitution solvents 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products. It is to be reconstituted 
only with one of the following: 
• sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection/infusion;  
• glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for infusion; or 
• sodium chloride 4.5 mg/ml (0.45%) and glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for 
injection/infusion. 
The following solutions cannot be used for reconstitution: 
• Use of Ringer-Lactate solution for injection or glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) in Ringer-Lactate 
solution for injection for reconstitution will cause the parecoxib to precipitate from solution 
and therefore is not recommended. 
• Use of Sterile Water for Injection for reconstitution is not recommended, as the resulting 
solution is not isotonic. 
Reconstitution process 
Use aseptic technique to reconstitute lyophilised parecoxib (as parecoxib sodium). 
40 mg vial: Remove the purple flip-off cap to expose the central portion of the rubber stopper of the 
parecoxib 40 mg vial. Withdraw with a sterile needle and syringe, 2 ml of an acceptable solvent and 
insert the needle through the central portion of the rubber stopper transferring the solvent into the 
parecoxib 40 mg vial. 
Dissolve the powder completely using a gentle swirling motion and inspect the reconstituted product 
before use. 
The reconstituted solution must not be used if discoloured or cloudy or if particulate matter is 
observed. 
The entire contents of the vial should be withdrawn for a single administration. If a dose lower 
than 40 mg is required, excess medicine should be discarded. 
IV line solution compatibility 
69  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Precipitation may occur when Dynastat is combined in solution with other medicinal products and 
therefore Dynastat must not be mixed with any other drug, either during reconstitution or injection. In 
those patients where the same IV line is to be used to inject another medicinal product, the line must 
be adequately flushed prior to and after Dynastat injection with a solution of known compatibility. 
After reconstitution with acceptable solvents, Dynastat may only be injected IV or IM, or into 
IV lines delivering the following: 
• sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection/infusion; 
• glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for infusion; 
• sodium chloride 4.5 mg/ml (0.45%) and glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for 
injection/infusion; or  
• Ringer-Lactate solution for injection. 
It is not recommended to inject into an IV line delivering glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) in Ringer-Lactate 
solution for injection, or other IV fluids not listed in this section, as this may cause precipitation from 
solution. 
The solution is for single use only and must not be stored in a refrigerator or freezer. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability of the reconstituted solution have been demonstrated for up to 
24 hours at 25C. Thus, 24 hours should be considered the maximum shelf life of the reconstituted 
product. However, due to the importance of microbiological infection risk for injectable products, the 
reconstituted solution should be used immediately unless reconstitution has taken place in controlled 
and validated aseptic conditions. Unless such requirements are met, in-storage times and conditions 
prior to use are the responsibility of the user, and would not normally be longer than 12 hours at 25C. 
70  
 
 
 
 
 
