SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Dynastat 
Applicant: 
Pharmacia Europe EEIG. 
Hillbottom Road 
High Wycombe 
Buckinghamshire 
HP12 4PX 
United Kingdom 
Active substance: 
Parecoxib sodium 
International Non-proprietary Name: 
Parecoxib 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
Coxibs 
M01AH04 
Therapeutic indications: 
For the short-term treatment of postoperative pain 
CPMP/1166/02 
1/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
Acute  pain  is  commonly  associated  with  tissue  damage  caused  by  injury  or  surgery.  Parenteral 
treatments are usually preferred when acute pain conditions are moderately severe or worse, and are 
required in acute pain when oral (or rectal) administration is inappropriate e.g. postoperatively. 
The  cornerstones  of  analgesia  in  acute  pain  continue  to  be  opioids,  non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory 
drugs (NSAIDs), paracetamol and regional/local anaesthesia/analgesia techniques. In the postoperative 
setting these therapies are often employed as a multi-modal analgesia.  
From the early 1970s it was known that aspirin and other NSAIDs acted by inhibiting cyclooxygenase 
(COX). COX is the enzyme involved in the formation of thromboxane and the prostaglandins (often pro-
inflammatory substances) from arachidonic acid.  
It  was  thought  for  many  years,  that  COX  was  a  single  enzyme.  However,  basic  research  into 
prostaglandin  metabolism  using  cultured  cell  lines  gradually  led  to  the  realisation  that  the  COX 
generated  by  mitogen  stimulation  was  a  variant  of  that  already  known.    The  protein  structure  and 
cDNA of induced COX was different to that of constitutively expressed COX. The two proteins are 
now known as COX-1 (constitutive) and COX-2 (induced). Further work revealed that, in very general 
terms,  COX-1  could  be  said  to  have  a  tissue  homeostatic  function,  and  COX-2  an  inflammatory 
function. Therefore, it was thought that if an NSAID could be developed which selectively inhibited 
COX-2, it might retain the valuable anti-inflammatory properties and lose the tissue damaging effects 
of non-selective NSAIDS.  
Parecoxib  sodium  is  a  water-soluble  sodium  salt  of  the  amide  prodrug  of  valdecoxib.  Parecoxib 
undergoes  enzymatic  hydrolysis  in  vivo  to  the  active  moiety  valdecoxib,  and  is  formulated  as  a 
powder  for  solution  for  parenteral  administration.  Valdecoxib  is  a  selective  inhibitor  of  the  enzyme 
COX-2. 
The  Marketing  Authorisation  Application  has  been  evaluated  for  parecoxib  sodium  under  the  trade 
names Dynastat for the indication “for the short-term treatment of postoperative pain”. 
2.  Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Dynastat is formulated as a freeze-dried powder for solution for injection in glass vials containing either 
20 mg or 40 mg of parecoxib (as the sodium salt).  When reconstituted with 0.9 % w/v of sterile sodium 
chloride solution (1 ml for the 20 mg presentation and 2 ml for the 40 mg presentation), the same final 
concentration  for  administration  of  20  mg/ml  is  obtained  from  both  vial  sizes.    The  product  is  to  be 
available in packs both with and without ampoules (1 ml and 2 ml contents) of solvent [9 mg/ml (0.9%) 
sodium chloride solution] for reconstitution. 
Active substance 
Parecoxib sodium is a water-soluble pro-drug of valdecoxib which is a poorly water-soluble COX-2 
inhibitor.    Valdecoxib  is  also  the  major  degradant  from  thermal-,  solution-  or  light-stressed 
degradation. 
The  structure  has  been  confirmed  by  single  crystal  X-ray  analysis  of  the  free  acid  (parecoxib),  by 
elemental analysis and by NMR of parecoxib sodium.  Other techniques used for structure elucidation 
included, IR, MS and UV.   
Parecoxib has no asymmetric centres. Several anhydrous and solvated crystal forms have been shown 
to exist (by powder X-ray diffraction and thermal analysis), but it has been demonstrated that during 
the product manufacturing process that the anhydrous and non-solvated Form I of parecoxib sodium is 
formed.  Details of the reference standard and its characterisation are adequate. 
The  active  substance  is  synthesised  in  a  five-step  process  which  is  fully  described  and  adequately 
controlled.    The  specifications  for  the  starting  materials,  the  isolated  intermediate  (valdecoxib),  and 
the solvents and reagents are adequate.  The first three steps of the synthesis produce valdecoxib, and 
the last two steps form parecoxib sodium.  Although earlier processes have been used for pre-clinical 
CPMP/1166/02 
2/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
and clinical testing, but no new impurities which need to be further qualified in toxicity studies arise 
from the current process. 
The potential impurities from the synthesis are discussed.  Only four impurities have been detected. 
The  specification  for  parecoxib  sodium  contains  suitable  tests  for  identity,  assay  (by  a  stability 
indicating HPLC method), impurities (a single specified impurity and any single unspecified impurity 
and  total  impurities),  residual  organic  solvents,  bacterial  endotoxins  and  other  general  purity  tests.  
The limits for impurities are toxicologically acceptable. 
Batch  analyses  results,  including  results  from  production  scale  batches,  demonstrate  satisfactory 
uniformity and compliance with the specification. 
Stability 
The active substance is stored in polyethylene bags inside aluminium foil laminate bags. Stability data 
are  available  for  104  weeks  storage  at  long-term  ICH  conditions  and  26  weeks  at  intermediate  and 
accelerated  conditions.  Results  are  within  specification,  there  is  no  degradation  and  no  trends  are 
apparent.   A  re-test period of  two years is claimed  (at  25°C) and is supported by the data  provided.  
The stability of the first three full-scale production batches of the active substance made post-approval 
by the proposed site (Pharmacia Limited, Morpeth, UK) will be monitored and the results forwarded 
when available. 
Stress studies on a solution  of parecoxib sodium  demonstrate that stability increases with increasing 
pH and reaches a plateau between pH 7 to pH 9. Degradation increases with temperature. 
Other ingredients 
All the excipients are controlled to the relevant Ph Eur or USP standards.  None of the ingredients are 
derived from animal sources. 
The  vials are made of colourless glass which comply with the PhEur requirements for Type I glass.  
For the 20 mg dose the vial size is 2 ml, and for the 40 mg dose the vial size is 5 ml.  The butyl rubber 
stoppers  have  a  fluorocarbon  lamination  on  the  product  surface,  a  silicone  coating  on  non-product 
surfaces  and  comply  with  the  PhEur  requirements  for  rubber  closures  for  aqueous  preparations  for 
parenteral  use.    The  colour  of  the  flip-off  cap  on  the  aluminium  overseals  (for  which  specifications 
have been provided) is yellow for the 20 mg dose and purple for the 40 mg dose.  Cardboard cartons 
(or equivalent) are used as secondary packaging.  
The ampoules of solvent [9 mg/ml (0.9%) sodium chloride solution] contain sodium chloride Ph Eur 
and water for injections Ph Eur, and if necessary for pH adjustment, hydrochloric acid and/or sodium 
hydroxide Ph Eur.  The ampoules are 2 ml size, but may have a 1 ml or 2 ml fill volume.  They are 
made of colourless glass and comply with the Ph Eur requirements for Type I glass. 
Product development and finished product 
Due to the poor aqueous solubility of the main degradation product, valdecoxib, the pivotal aim of the 
pharmaceutical development was to produce a stable formulation where the formation of valdecoxib 
was  minimised.    Experiments  on  autoclaving  vials  of  20  mg/ml  solution  at  121  °C  for  15  minutes 
resulted  in  the  appearance  of  long  crystals  in  the  majority  of  the  vials  tested  and  this  justified  the 
development of a lyophilised product. 
Different  formulations  containing  buffer/bulking  agent/solubiliser  were  tested  for  stability.    The 
commercial composition, containing dibasic sodium phosphate heptahydrate as the only excipient, was 
the  most  stable  formulation  investigated.    Moreover,  this  product  reconstituted  faster  than  the  early 
formulation containing mannitol (which had been used in the Phase I/Phase II trials). 
The aqueous solubility of parecoxib sodium at 20°C is 18 mg/ml at pH 7.8 but 220 mg/ml at pH 8.3. 
The pH specification for the product after dilution (with sodium chloride solution) is 7.5 – 8.5.  The 
solubility  of  parecoxib  sodium  at  pH  values  >7.5  is  greater  than  predicted  by  ionisation,  and  is 
attributed to the formation of self-association complexes (micelles) (CMC = 20 mg/ml).  
Reconstituted  solutions  are  hypotonic,  hence  the  use  of  9  mg/ml  (0.9  %)  sodium  chloride  as  a 
reconstitution solution which renders the injection almost isotonic. 
CPMP/1166/02 
3/20 
EMEA 2004 
The  commercial  formulation  consists  of  parecoxib  sodium  (active  substance),  dibasic  sodium 
phosphate  (buffering  agent),  phosphoric  acid  and  sodium  hydroxide  (if  needed  for  pH  adjustment), 
and water for injections (vehicle removed during lyophilisation) and nitrogen (inert headspace gas). 
Physical,  chemical  and  microbiological  stability  data  are  provided  to  support  the  instructions  for 
administration given in section 6.6 of the SPC. 
Chemical and physical stability after 48 hours was demonstrated after dilution with 9 mg/ml (0.9%) 
sodium chloride  solution,  50 g/L (5%)  glucose  solution  for infusion and  4.5  mg/ml (0.45%) sodium 
chloride and  50  g/L (5%)  glucose  solution for injection.  Y-site compatibility was  also investigated.  
For Ringer Lactate solution for injection, which cannot be used as a diluent because of the formation 
of  crystals  after  8  hours,  studies  showed  that  the  reconstituted  product  can  be  injected  into  a  line 
delivering  this  solution  without  precipitation.    The  reconstituted  product  has  some  inherent 
antimicrobial properties. 
Manufacture 
The  manufacturing  process,  including  the  in-process  controls  (IPCs),  has  been  well  documented 
(including a flow chart). After dissolution and mixing of all the ingredients, the solution is sterilised 
by  filtration  (two  0.22µm  filters),  aseptically  filled  into  sterilised  vials  (partially  stoppered  with 
sterilised butyl rubber stoppers) and then lyophilised. 
Appropriate  IPCs  limits  are  set  for  pH,  assay  and  fill  weight.    Although  the  limit  for  bioburden  of 
NMT 10 CFU/ml limit is above that specified in the guidelines (10 CFU/100 ml), the proposed limit 
has been justified and it has been demonstrated that the manufacture reduces the bioburden to within 
the guideline limit. 
The manufacturing process has been adequately validated at all three proposed manufacturing sites. 
The ampoules of solvent [9mg/ml (0.9%) sodium chloride solution] are manufactured at two sites by a 
conventional solution process.  Full details of the manufacture, filling and sealing of the ampoules and 
then  terminal  autoclaving  under  standard  conditions  are  provided.    The  processes  have  been 
satisfactorily validated. 
Product specification 
The finished product release specification contains suitable tests for a parenteral powder for solution 
for injection.  Identity is assured by IR, and content uniformity by UV and content and degradants are 
controlled using a stability indicating HPLC assay. . The limits for individual (NMT 0.2% for a single 
specified impurity and NMT 0.2% for any other single unspecified) and total (NMT 0.5%) degradants 
are acceptable.  Water is controlled as the product is hygroscopic.  Standard PhEur tests are included - 
for  clarity,  opalescence,  particulate  contamination,  sterility  and  bacterial  endotoxins.    The  finished 
product specification also includes tests and limits for pH and reconstitution time. 
The shelf-life specification differs in that it has a higher limit for water content (NMT 5.0%), a higher 
limit (NMT 0.5%) for the major degradation product, valdecoxib, and also a higher limit (NMT 0.8%) 
for total impurities. 
The  HPLC  method  for  assay  and  degradation  products,  and  the  UV  method  for  content  uniformity 
have been satisfactorily validated. 
Batch  analyses  results  for  43  batches  including  production-scale  batches,  manufactured  at  Searle  in 
Skokie,  Searle  in  Barceloneta,  Dr.Madaus  and  Ben  Venue  Laboratories,  USA  were  presented.    The 
results comply with the agreed specifications and demonstrate satisfactory uniformity. 
The  ampoules  of  solvent  [9  mg/ml  (0.9%)  sodium  chloride  solution]  are  tested  according  to  the  BP 
monograph  for  “Sodium  chloride  intravenous  infusion”.    Results  from  batch  analyses  data  (both  fill 
volume sizes) are provided and demonstrate the batches meet the specification and also that there is 
consistency of manufacture. 
Stability of the Product 
CPMP/1166/02 
4/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
Satisfactory  stability  data  are  available  after  104  weeks  long-term,  52  weeks  intermediate  and  26 
weeks  accelerated  storage  (ICH  conditions)  on  three  batches  of  each  vial  size  (20  mg  and  40  mg) 
made by two  manufacturing sites. Stability results comply with the shelf-life  specification and there 
was no trend in content results.  Slight increases in the levels of both valdecoxib (the only degradant 
seen above 0.1%) and water content were seen with time. 
The  product  was  also  tested  under  stress  conditions.    Photostability  testing  showed  that  the  product 
without secondary packaging is slightly sensitive to light, although it remained within specifications 
when  exposed  to  standard  ICH  testing  conditions.    Thermal  degradation  studies  demonstrated  the 
stability of the product to heat, as after 27 weeks at 70°C the level of valdecoxib  (the only degradant 
observed) was only 0.58%. 
The  stability  data  provide  support  the  three  year  shelf-life  and  demonstrate  there  is  no  need  for  any 
storage recommendations for the product, either with regard to temperature or light. 
Investigations on stability of the reconstituted product show that the product reconstituted with either 
the  9  mg/ml  (0.9%)  sodium  chloride  solution,  50  g/L  (5%)  glucose  solution  for  infusion  4.5  mg/ml 
(0.45%) sodium chloride and 50 g/L (5%) glucose solution for injection is physically and chemically 
stable  for  48  hours  at  25°C.    The  sodium  chloride  diluted  product  was  also  tested  after  storage  in 
polypropylene  syringes  and  glass  syringes.    The  use  of  saline  solutions  at  both  the  upper  and  lower 
release pH limits (4.5 and 7.0) were investigated as well as dextrose solutions at a low pH (3.5), but no 
crystallisation was evident.  The recommended shelf-life after reconstitution is 12 hours at 25°C, and 
this has therefore been supported by physical and chemical stability data. 
There  are  three  conditions  under  which  parecoxib  has  been  observed  to  crystallise  out  of  the 
reconstituted injection and these are refrigeration, use of acidic diluents which result in an initial pH of 
7.2 or less, and storage of a solution reconstituted with an acidic diluent which results in an initial pH 
of 7.4 or less.  There are therefore additional warnings in the product information not to refrigerate or 
freeze the reconstituted product and these are fully justified. 
The  stability  data  provided  for  the  ampoules  of  solvent  [9mg/ml  (0.9%)  sodium  chloride  solution] 
support  the  three  year  shelf-life  and  demonstrate  there  is  no  need  for  any  special  storage 
recommendations. 
The  stability results  justify the claimed  shelf-lives  (before  and  after reconstitution)  as  defined in the 
SPC. 
3.  Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
In vitro studies and in vivo studies 
The  pharmacological  activity  of  parecoxib  is  exerted  primarily  via  it’s  principle  metabolite  valdecoxib,  
but also by an active metabolite of valdecoxib (M1), which represents about 10% of the concentration of 
valdecoxib.    These  have  been  shown,  in  vitro  and  in  vivo,  to  exhibit  COX-2  inhibition  at  considerably 
lower concentrations than COX-1 inhibition.   
Anti-inflammatory, analgesic and anti-pyretic activity were demonstrated in a number of animal models.  
Parecoxib and valdecoxib showed varying degrees of potency in the carrageenan-induced inflamed paw 
model, adjuvant-induced arthritis model and models of surgically-induced pain.   
The anti-pyretic activity of parecoxib and valdecoxib was assessed in a canine model of fever induced 
with bacterial endotoxin or lipopolysaccharide (LPS); both parecoxib and valdecoxib reduced fever. 
• 
General and safety pharmacology programme  
No  adverse  cardiovascular  effects  were  seen.  No  disturbances  of  ECGs,  including  QT  interval 
assessment, or  adverse  change in cardiovascular function  were observed in  conscious  dogs.   Plasma 
concentrations  of  parecoxib,  valdecoxib  and  M1  in  dogs  were  3-,  19-  and  124-fold  greater, 
respectively,  than  anticipated  with  the  maximum  recommended  human  dose  (MRHD).Urethane 
anaesthetised  guinea  pigs  were  exposed  to  plasma  concentrations  of  parecoxib,  valdecoxib  and  M1 
which were less than, equal to and 11-fold greater, respectively, than those achieved with the MRHD.  
CPMP/1166/02 
5/20 
EMEA 2004 
In  both  animal  models  minor  cardiovascular  changes,  and  in  guinea  pigs  pulmonary  changes,  were 
seen.    The  changes  were  transient  and  not  related  to  dose  and  were  thus  not  considered  to  be 
toxicologically significant. 
Doses of parecoxib used in neurobehavioural tests were too low to assess possible effects.  Diminished 
renal function and delayed healing of bacterial infections were seen at higher doses. 
Valdecoxib and M1 showed no interactions with receptors or enzymes of potential clinical significance. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No formal drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted in animals. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The absorption and distribution of parecoxib following i.v. administration was rapid and widespread.  
Parecoxib is rapidly converted to valdecoxib with first order kinetics.  Bioavailability of valdecoxib and 
M1 is high following parecoxib administration in all species but the rabbit.  Maximum human exposure 
has been calculated based on the available data, resulting in 2-fold and 0.8-fold safety margins for 
parecoxib and valdecoxib, respectively, in the repeated dose rat and dog studies. 
Protein  binding  is  high  for  parecoxib,  valdecoxib  and  M1.    The  majority  of  tissue  concentrations  were 
equivalent to that of plasma, including amniotic fluid, milk and pigmented tissues.  There was no evidence 
of accumulation of the parent drug or metabolites.  Metabolism is rapid and complex; over 15 metabolites 
have been identified.  All but one (minor) human metabolite have been seen in at least one of the animal 
species tested.  
Parecoxib is converted to valdecoxib and propionic acid in vivo.  At physiological pH propionic acid 
exists  as  propionate,  a  precursor  for  gluconeogenesis.    In  Europe,  propionic  acid  is  approved  as  a 
preservative (mould inhibitor) for human grains/grain products and also as a food additive. 
Species differences in the metabolism of parecoxib and valdecoxib were observed.  Collectively, the 
species  used  for  toxicological  assessment  of  parecoxib  form  all  of  the  metabolites  found  in  humans 
with the exception of the valdecoxib N-glucuronide metabolite.  
In vitro studies showed that both parecoxib and valdecoxib had a weak inhibitory potential for 
CYP2C9 and CYP2C19, but not for CYP3A4 or CYP2D9.  The possible clinical relevance for these in 
vitro data are discussed in the clinical section. 
Elimination is primarily faecal in the dog, but in the rat renal, biliary and faecal excretion appear to play 
equal roles. 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
In the acute rat study, 2 deaths were noted after a single dose of 45 mg/kg iv and 13 deaths at >150 
mg/kg iv.  2/2 and 6/13 deaths occurred either immediately after dosing or after the 5-min 
toxicokinetic blood collection, the remaining 7/13 deaths occurred within 45 minutes of dosing.  The 
lack of histo-pathological evidence is common to all 15 deaths on Day 1.  Therefore, the NOEL is set 
at <45 mg/kg iv. 
In the acute dog study, some clinical pathology parameters were observed in the 80mg/kg treatment 
group.  These included an increase in aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, alkaline 
phosphatase, total bile acids and white blood cell count.  No changes were observed in platelet 
function or coagulation parameters. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity 
In repeated dose studies, rats and dogs could only be maintained on low multiples of human 
therapeutic exposure levels because of dose-limiting toxic effects at sites typically susceptible to 
COX-inhibition (the GIT and skin in particular).   
The GIT injuries were the most serious and consisted of focal transmural inflammation and necrosis, 
particularly of the ileum and jejunum, which typically progressed to perforation and fatal peritonitis. 
CPMP/1166/02 
6/20 
EMEA 2004 
A variety of skin lesions, including inflammation due to bacterial infection, thickening of the injection 
site and cage sores were seen in dogs following iv administration.  A significant increase in septic skin 
lesions and a notable failure to heal, resulting in some premature sacrifice, was seen in repeated dose 
dog  studies.    It  would  appear  that  the  delay  in  healing  is  a  consequence  of  COX-2  inhibition  and  is 
common  to  many  COX-inhibitors,  both  COX-2  selective  and  non-selective,  the  degree  of  delay  being 
proportional to the effectiveness of the drug. 
The only renal effect seen in the repeated dose toxicity studies with parecoxib sodium was a modest 
decrease  in  urinary  sodium  excretion  in  rats.    Since  sodium  excretion  by  the  kidney  is  partially 
regulated by prostaglandins, this effect was not unexpected. 
Changes  at  the  injection  site  (peri-vascular  fibrosis,  chronic  inflammation,  focal  necrosis  and 
haemorrhage) occurred with greater frequency in treated rats than in concurrent controls and were not 
fully reversible during the recovery period.  Slight-significant decreases in erythroid parameters (RBC, 
Hct and Hgb concentration), total protein and serum albumin were considered to be due to the loss of 
blood from injured intestinal mucosa.  The NOEL in rats was assigned in males and females as 25 and 
12.5  mg/kg/day  iv  for  2-weeks  or  10  and  2.5  mg/kg/day  iv,  in  two  equal  doses,  for  4-weeks.    The 
NOAEL in rats was assigned in males and females as 25 and 10 mg/kg/day iv, in two equal doses, for 
4-weeks.    In  dogs  of  both  sexes  a  dose  of  6  mg/kg/day  iv,  in  two  equal  doses,  was  assigned  as  the 
NOAEL over 2-weeks dosing NOEL over 4-weeks dosing. 
The data on Cmax and AUC in animals have been summarised and compared to human data following 
a 40 mg dose.  The data suggests that for the multiple dose general toxicity studies in the rat there is an 
exposure  factor  of  about  7  for  Cmax  and  11  for  AUC  for  parecoxib,  with  slightly  lower  figures  for 
valdecoxib, and much higher for M1.  The ratios tend to be somewhat lower in females.  For the dog 
there is an exposure ratio of 4 for Cmax and 11 for AUC for parecoxib.  For valdecoxib the ratio is 
lower  approximately  3  for  Cmax  and  AUC,  for  M1  the  ratio  was  approximately  30  for  AUC  and 
Cmax.  
•  Genotoxicity 
A full series of genotoxicity studies has been conducted.  The drug or its  metabolites did  not produce 
mutagenic  effects  in  the  Ames  and  the  CHO/HGPRT  assays.    Chromosomal  aberrations  were 
produced by parecoxib at 4-hour incubation of CHO cells with and without the addition of S9 (rat liver 
microsomal preparations), but not at 24 hour incubation without the addition of S9.  No effects were 
observed for the metabolites tested, thus the clastogenic effect seem to be associated with parecoxib 
itself.  The clastogenic effect of parecoxib was not seen in the in vivo rat bone marrow micronucleus 
assay.  Taken together, the data suggest that the results for chromosomal defects are equivocal and the 
safety margin based on the AUC implies low genotoxic risk for humans. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity studies were not conducted, since parecoxib is intended for short-term use only. 
•  Reproduction toxicity 
In  the  rat  fertility  study  a  reduction  in  gravid  uterine  weight  was  seen  and  was  correlated  with  an 
increased  post-implantation  loss  and  reduced  number  of  foetuses.    In  the  developmental  toxicity 
studies, the test substance clearly has the ability to increase post-implantation losses and resorptions in 
the rat and rabbit, in the absence of measurable maternal toxicity in the rabbit.  In addition, there were 
several indications of developmental toxicity, including a possibly treatment-related increased incidence 
of  skeletal  malformations  in  rabbit  foetuses,  again  in  the  absence  of  maternal  toxicity.  The  overall 
development NOEL (No Observed Effect Level) in the rat was observed to be 12.5mg/kg/day based on 
reduced  foetal  weight  and  possible  treatment-related  increase  in  rudimentary  14th  rib.    The  NOEL  for 
developmental toxicity for the rabbit was 20mg/kg/day based on increased post-implantation losses.  
Adverse  reproductive  effects  could  be  expected  to  result  from  drugs  producing  prostaglandin 
inhibition.    Drugs  of  this  class,  including  parecoxib,  are  not  recommended  in  women  attempting  to 
conceive,  and  are  contraindicated  in  the  last  trimester  of  pregnancy  due  to  harmful  pharmacological 
effects on pregnancy and/or the foetus/newborn child (i.e. uterina inertia and/or premature closure of 
the ductus arteriosus). 
CPMP/1166/02 
7/20 
EMEA 2004 
However,  since  parecoxib  caused  reproductive  toxicity  in  animals  at  doses  not  producing  maternal 
toxicity, the drug should be characterised as embryotoxic and thus should not be used in the first two 
trimesters of pregnancy or labour unless the benefit to the patient outweighs the potential risk to the 
foetus.    The  effects  of  parecoxib  have  not  been  evaluated  in  late  pregnancy  or  in  the  pre-  and  post- 
natal period.  The drug is excreted in rat milk and should not be administered during lactation. 
•  Local Tolerance 
Clinically relevant formulations of parecoxib produced slight-moderate irritation at im injection sites and 
no significant effect at iv injection sites in rabbits.  However, the irritation seen at some injection sites in 
some  of  the  repeat  dose  studies  in  rats  and  dogs  suggests  that  there  may  in  fact  be  some  potential  for 
irritation after iv administration.  
The results of the two guinea pig studies (Magnusson and Kligman maximization assay) suggest that 
parecoxib is not likely to be a dermal sensitizer. 
•  Environmental Risk Assessment 
Given the nature and proposed use of parecoxib, it is considered unlikely to have an adverse 
environmental impact.  Parecoxib does not contain nor is it derived from genetically modified 
organisms (GMOs). 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Parecoxib  and  its  active  metabolite  valdecoxib  belong  to  the  diarylheterocyclic  family  of  cyclo-
oxygenase (COX) inhibitors. Evidence of COX-2 selectivity comes principally from a study that used 
a transfected cell line to express recombinant COX-1 or COX-2. Cell homogenates were incubated in 
the  presence  of  exogenous  arachadonic  acid  and  test  drug.    Using  this  assay,  valdecoxib  was 
approximately 28 000 fold more selective toward  COX-2 compared to COX-1.    
Dynamic studies:  
In two clinical trials healthy young subjects with endoscopically normal gastric and duodenal mucosa 
underwent  seven days treatment with  parecoxib. In  study 011 the 5% of  patients  in the placebo  and 
parecoxib 20 mg/day groups were found to have a gastroduodenal ulcer or erosion. The mean score for 
any endoscopic abnormality was 0.27 for placebo, 0.43 for parecoxib 4.61 for ketorolac and 3.22 for  
naproxen. Erosions and ulcers were approximately ten fold higher for ketoralac and naproxen than for 
placebo. In study 030 the placebo rate for erosion or ulcer was 6%; that for parecoxib was 21% and 
that for ketorolac was 90%.  The respective endoscopy scores were 0.22; 0.31; 0.97     
Two similar studies were conducted in healthy elderly subjects the first study showed similar results to 
the healthy young subject studies and. the other one was discontinued because of the high incidence of 
ulceration in the ketorolac and naproxen treatment groups.  
Effects on platelet function were investigated in three studies in healthy volunteers, including the 
elderly. Induced platelet aggregation using arachonidate, collagen and ADP, was significantly more 
affected in subjects receiving ketorolac than in those receiving parecoxib sodium, which differed little 
from placebo. 
Renal effects based on measurements of urinary prostaglandins and fractional sodium secretion did not 
suggest any benefit of parecoxib sodium compared to ketorolac.  
Pharmacokinetics 
• 
General: 
Absorption and dose linearity 
CPMP/1166/02 
8/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
In  healthy  male  volunteers  the  pharmacokinetics  of  parecoxib/valdecoxib  were  compared  following 
administration  of 20  mg  doses intravenously and  by  mouth.  The kinetics after repeated intravenous 
administration for up to nine days were similar to those after single doses.  
Distribution 
Valdecoxib is about 95% protein bound over three orders of magnitude concentration in all species tested 
(including man): parecoxib is 97% bound. The minor metabolite with activity (M1) is at least 80% protein 
bound. There is partitioning of drug between red blood cells (RBC) and plasma with a ratio of about 4:1.  
The  apparent  volume  of  distribution  of  parecoxib  in  animals  was  0.4  l/Kg  and  in  man  6.7  l  following 
intravenous and 16 .5 l following intramuscular injection of 20 mg. 
Metabolism 
Parecoxib is rapidly metabolised to proprionic acid and valdecoxib by hepatic carboxyesterases and is 
not dependant on the NADPH or cytochrome P450 systems. Parecoxib is stable (not metabolised) in 
whole  blood  and  plasma.  Proprionic  acid,  which  exists  as  priorionate  at  physiological  pH,  is  an 
endogenous substance which feeds into gluconeogenesis. For valdecoxib, the main metabolic pathway 
involves the hydroxylation of the methyl group on the isoxazole ring to form the metabolite M1.  
In  vitro  studies  of  the  subsequent  metabolism  of  valdecoxib  show  that  the  CYP  isoenzymes  are 
involved  particularly  CYP3A4  and  also  CYP2C9.  With  increasing  drug  concentrations  there  was 
evidence  of  saturation  of  CYP2D6  and  CYP1A2  indicating  an  inhibition  of  these  enzymes  by 
metabolites of parecoxib. The data provided allow no more than a ‘semi-quantitative’ evaluation of the 
relative contribution of the various isoenzymes. 
Elimination 
Parecoxib is  rapidly and  extensively  converted to valdecoxib;  the elimination  half-life  of the  former 
being about forty minutes, the latter about eight hours. Mass balance studies show that elimination is 
predominantly urinary, 65.3%, with 15.5% in faeces, primarily as metabolites. 
•  Pharmacokinetics in special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
In patients with mild, or moderate hepatic impairment, bioavailability of both the pro-drug and active 
form  increased  with  degree  of  impairment  and  the  plasma  clearance  decreased  (Table  1).  The  SPC 
recommends  that  the  dose  be  halved  in  patients  with  moderate  hepatic  impairment  and  the  drug  is 
contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
CPMP/1166/02 
9/20 
EMEA 2004 
Table 1  Group mean increase in drug exposure (following multiple doses) by degree of hepatic 
impairment. 
Cmax 
AUC 
Renal impairment 
Parecoxib 
mild = 0  moderate = 35% 
mild = 0  moderate = 85% 
Valdecoxib 
mild = 30%  moderate = 144% 
mild = 18%  moderate = 138% 
A study in patients with renal impairment showed an increase (8% to 36%) in the AUC of valdecoxib 
following a single 20 mg dose of parecoxib.  The increase in AUC was not tightly correlated to the degree 
of renal impairment.  No changes in valdecoxib clearance were found even in severe renal impairment 
and dialysis, consistent with the extensive elimination of valdecoxib via hepatic metabolism.  About 65 % 
of the dose is excreted in the urine as inactive metabolites.  
The Elderly 
Bioavailability of valdecoxib is greater in the elderly after repeat oral administration, with healthy elderly 
subjects having a reduced apparent oral clearance of valdecoxib resulting in an approximately 40% higher 
plasma exposure compared to healthy young subjects. When adjusted for body weight, plasma exposure 
was on average 16% higher in elderly females compared to elderly males. 
As  elderly  female  patients  not  uncommonly  weigh  less  than  50  kg,  a  dose  reduction  in  this  group 
seems reasonable and has been included in the SPC. 
• 
Interaction studies: 
A number of interaction studies were conducted with the oral formulation, valdecoxib.  Extrapolation 
from interaction studies done with valdecoxib to parecocib is valid since the conversion of parecoxib 
to valdecoxib is rapid and therefore the exposure to valdecoxib following parenteral parecoxib or oral 
valdecoxib is considered to be equivalent. 
Valdecoxib  displays  a  moderately  high  affinity  to  CYP2D6,  and  even  though  the  inhibition  of 
CYP2D6 by valdecoxib was not complete, it is reasonable to believe that inhibition of this isoenzyme 
is the principal interacting mechanism with dextromethorphan (CYP2D6 substrate). As several drugs 
and drug groups (e.g. codeine,  antidepressants  such as SSRIs,  neuroleptics, and antiarrhythmics) are 
substrates  for CYP2D6  caution  should  be  observed  when  coadministering  parecoxib with  drugs that 
are predominantly metabolised by CYP 2D6 
Plasma  exposure  to  omeprazole  (CYP2C19  substrate)  was  increased  following  administration  with 
valdecoxib,  while  the  plasma  exposure  to  valdecoxib  was  unaffected.    These  results  indicate  that 
although  valdecoxib  is  not  metabolised  by  CYP2C19,  it  may  be  an  inhibitor.  Reference  should  be 
made to the potential inhibition of substrates of CYP2C19 (e.g. phenytoin, diazepam or imipramine) 
by valdecoxib.  
Coadministration of valdecoxib with warfarin over 7 days resulted in a 10-12% increase in plasma 
exposure (AUC) of warfarin and a small increase (approximately 8%) in mean prothrombin time and 
mean International Normalized Ratio values.  These small increases in the PT and INR values were 
not considered clinically important.  However, the SPC recommends that anticoagulant therapy be 
monitored in patients receiving warfarin or similar agents due to potential increased risk of bleeding 
complications. 
Plasma  exposure  (AUC  and  Cmax)  to  valdecoxib  was  increased    (62%  and  19%,  respectively)  when 
coadministrated  with  fluconazole  (predominantly  a  CYP2C9  inhibitor),  indicating  that  the  dose  of 
parecoxib sodium should be reduced in patients receiving fluconazole therapy.  
Plasma  exposure  (AUC  and  Cmax)  to  valdecoxib  was  increased    (38%  and  24%,  respectively)  when 
coadministrated  with  ketoconazole  (CYP3A4  inhibitor),  however,  a  dose  adjustment  should  not 
generally be necessary for patients receiving ketoconazole therapy. 
Enzyme  induction  has  not  been  studied.  The  metabolism  of  valdecoxib  may  increase  when  co-
administrated  with  e.g.  carbamazepine,  phenytoin,  rifampicin  or  dexamethasone  and  the  potential 
interactions of these drugs have been highlighted in the SPC.  
CPMP/1166/02 
10/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
The  effect of parecoxib sodium/valdecoxib  on the elimination of drugs where renal function plays a 
major role in elimination has been considered for medications such as methotrexate and lithium. Co-
administration  of  parecoxib  and  methotrexate  resulted  in  a  reduced  renal  clearance,  but  plasma 
clearance of methotrexate was not affected.. A recommendation for the monitoring of lithium serum 
concentration and methotrexate-related toxicity has been included in the SPC. 
Co-administration  with  heparin  did  not  result  in  alteration  of  activated  Partial  Thromboplastin  Time 
(aPTT). No differences were detected in group mean thromboplastin time (PT) or platelet counts. 
Clinical efficacy  
All clinical trials were performed according to GCP standards. 
In  the  clinical  trial  programme  conducted  by  the  applicant  (Table  2),  the  inclusion  and  exclusion 
criteria  can  be  summarised  as  selecting  adult  patients  (at  least  eighteen  years  old)  who  were  in 
moderate  to  severe  pain  following  the  surgical  procedure  and  did  not  have  other  serious  concurrent 
illness. The requirement for the patient to be in pain is different in the studies of prophylaxis where 
treatments were started pre-operatively with the aim of avoiding pain.  
Pain  was  measured  using  a  variety  of  rating  scores,  perhaps  the  most  useful  of  which  is  the  Pain 
Intensity  Difference  (PID),  which  compares  pain  at  a  given  time  with  that  at  baseline:  it  appears  to 
provide an ‘area under the curve’-type measure of pain relief with respect to time and is used in most 
of  the  studies.  For  primary  end  points  pain  intensity was  assessed  using  a  4-point  categorical  rating 
scale. The pain intensity visual analog scale (VAS) was applied in some of the secondary end-points. 
CPMP/1166/02 
11/20 
EMEA 2004 
003 
004 
014 
025 
Table 2  Overview of analgesic efficacy studies 
Model and 
Study   Number 
Post-Dental  
Surgery Analgesia 
Parecoxib sodium 
dose (mg) 
Study 
Category 
aComparator 
No.  
Enrolled 
Inclusion Criteriab 
Range 
finding 
IM Single Dose:  
1, 2, 5, 10, 20 
P, K 
353 
Surgical extraction ipsilateral 
impacted third molars;  
Moderate pain (categorical) and 
VAS ≥50 mm within 6 hours 
after surgery 
same as 003 
Range 
finding 
Pivotal 
Pivotal 
IV Single Dose: 1, 
2, 5, 10, 20, 50, 
100 
Single Dose:  
20 IV, 20 IM 
Single Dose IM and 
IV:  20, 40  
P, K 
457 
P, V, I, K, T 
P, K 
351 
304 
same as 003 
same as 003 
Post-Gynaecological 
Surgery Analgesia 
019 
Pivotal 
IV Single Dose: 
20, 40 
P, K, M 
202 
021c 
Pivotal 
IV Repeated Dose:  
20, 40 
P, K, M 
208 
Post-Orthopaedic 
Surgery Analgesia 
018 
Pivotal 
IV Single Dose: 
20, 40 
P, K, M 
208 
020c 
Pivotal 
IV Repeated Dose:  
20, 40 
P, K, M 
204 
Pre-Emptive/Preventative 
Analgesia-Dental and  
Orthopaedic Surgery 
Pivotal 
Pivotal 
IV Single Dose: 
20, 40, 80 
IV Single Dose: 
20, 40 
Supportive  V PO Single Dose:  
10, 20, 40, 80 
Supportive  V PO Single Dose:  
20, 40, 80 
022 
037 
v024 
v037 
Opioid-Sparingd-
CABG or 
Gynaecological 
Surgery 
035 
029 
Pivotal 
Pivotal 
IV Repeated Dose: 
40 q 12 hours 
IV Repeated Dose:  
20, 40 q 12 hours 
P 
P 
P 
P 
P 
P 
224 
203 
284 
223 
462 
216 
Elective abdominal 
hysterectomy/ myomectomy; 
Moderate incisional pain 
(categorical) and VAS ≥45 mm 
within 6 hours after 
discontinuation of patient 
controlled analgesia (PCA) 
within 24 hours of surgery  
same as 019 
Unilateral total knee arthroplasty 
under general anaesthesia;  
Moderate pain (categorical) and 
VAS ≥45 mm within 6 hours 
after discontinuation of PCA 
Unilateral total hip arthroplasty 
(initial or revision)  under 
general anaesthesia;  
Moderate pain (categorical) and 
VAS ≥45 mm within 6 hours 
after discontinuation of PCA 
Surgical extraction ipsilateral 
impacted third molar teeth. 
Orthopaedic surgery under 
general or local anaesthesia 
same as 022 
Unilateral first metatarsal 
bunionectomy under regional 
anaesthesia 
CABG surgery 
Abdominal hysterectomy/ 
myomectomy 
a P = placebo; K = ketorolac 30 mg IV (60 mg IM in 025, 15 mg IV in 020);  I = ibuprofen 400 mg PO; V = valdecoxib PO;  
T = tramadol 100 mg PO; M = morphine sulphate 4 mg IV. 
bTAH = total abdominal hysterectomy; VAS = visual analogue scale; PCA = patient-controlled analgesia; THA = total hip 
arthroplasty; CABG = coronary artery bypass graft. 
cStudies with repeated-dose phases, study drug was administered BID for up to 5 days. 
dDuration of parecoxib sodium IV administration in the Study 029 was 36 hours.  In Study 035, parecoxib sodium 40 mg IV q 
12 hours for 72 hours was followed by valdecoxib 40 mg PO every 12 hours for up to 14 days. 
CPMP/1166/02 
12/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Main efficacy studies 
•  Dental surgery 
Four studies were conducted in dental surgery in which parecoxib was administered post-operatively 
all  involving  patients  undergoing  extraction  of  one  or  more  molar  teeth.    One  study  involved  pre-
operative administration of parecoxib. 
In study 003, patients (50 or 51 per group) received a single intramuscular dose of: placebo, parecoxib 
1 mg, 2 mg, 5 mg, 10 mg, 20 mg, ketorolac 30 mg. Doses of parecoxib above 10 mg gave satisfactory 
pain relief. 
Study 004 was conducted to a similar design as 003 with two exceptions; the intravenous route was 
used  instead  of  the  intramuscular,  and  the  two  highest  doses  of  parecoxib  administered  were  50  mg 
and  100  mg.    Fifty-one  patients  received  each  dose  of  parecoxib  and  fifty  placebo  and  ketorolac. 
Parecoxib  doses  of  5  mg  or  more  were  statistically  superior  to  placebo.  In  study  014  patients  in 
moderate to severe pain were randomised to: placebo n=50; parecoxib 20 mg i.m  n=51; parecoxib 20 
mg i.v. n=50;   valdecoxib 20 mg orally n= 50;  ibuprofen 400 mg orally n=49;  ketorolac 30 mg i.v.  
n=50;  tramadol  100 mg orally n=50. Results were similar to those obtained in studies 003 and 004. 
Study  025  in  which  patients  (50/51  per  group)  received  a  single  dose  of  parecoxib  20  mg  i.m., 
parecoxib 20 mg i.v.; parecoxib 40 mg i.m., parecoxib 40 mg i.v, ketorolac 60 mg i.m., or placebo had 
an  outcome  for  PID  similar  to  the  other  dental  pain  studies.  Time  to  use  of  rescue  medication  was 
approximately  one  hour  in  the  placebo  patients  and  over  seven  hours  in  the  shortest  of  the  active 
treatments. 
Study 022 evaluated the efficacy of parecoxib administered prophylactically to dental  patients 30 to 
45 minutes prior to surgery. The median time to rescue medication was greater than 24 hours with a 
single 40 mg dose.  However, the study did not compare preoperative with postoperative treatment. 
•  Orthopaedic surgery 
Three studies were conducted in orthopaedic surgery, two of post-operative, and one of pre-operative 
treatment. 
Study 018   was a single dose trial in patients undergoing elective knee replacement.  Patients were 
randomized to: placebo n=37; morphine 4 mg n= 39; ketorolac 30 mg n 41; parecoxib 20 mg n = 43;  
parecoxib 40 mg n = 36 (all by i.v. administration).  A single dose of parecoxib 40 mg IV provided 
analgesic efficacy significantly superior to that of placebo and the median time to rescue medication 
was markedly longer (310 min vs. 128 min). There were no statistically significant differences in the 
onset and extent of analgesic activity between parecoxib 40 mg IV and ketorolac 30 mg IV, while 
parecoxib 40 mg IV was superior to morphine 4 mg IV in these respects.  
Study  020  was  a  single  and  multiple  dose  trial  conducted  in  patients  undergoing  elective  hip 
replacement.  Patients were randomized to: placebo n=39; morphine 4 mg  n= 38; ketorolac 15 mg n = 
40; parecoxib 20 mg n = 43;  parecoxib 40 mg n = 44.  The study consisted of a one-day followed by a 
five-day phase. Results for pain intensity difference (one-day phase) were similar to those obtained in 
Study 018.  Interpretation of the multiple day phase is difficult as only forty-three percent of patients 
entered  it,  however,  the  outcome  appears  to  show  that  patients’  global  rating  of  analgesia  was 
equivalent  for  the  two  doses  of  parecoxib  and  for  ketorolac,  but  the  conclusion  can  not  be  robust, 
given the numbers involved.   
Study 037   was a trial in patients undergoing elective orthopedic surgery (knee/hip replacement or 
foot surgery). Test medications were given pre-operatively in order to prevent pain.   As with study 
022, this study did not compare preoperative with postoperative drug administration. Patients received 
a single, i.v. dose of parecoxib 20 mg, parecoxib 40 mg, or placebo 30 to 45 minutes prior to surgery. 
Efficacy was measured by Time to Rescue Medication and proportion receiving rescue medication. 
Rather surprisingly the outcome did not favour the active treatments, with the exception of the 
proportion taking rescue medication in the 20 mg parecoxib arm.  However, in a (post-hoc) subset 
analysis, a significant difference with parecoxib sodium 40 mg when compared to placebo in the time 
CPMP/1166/02 
13/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
to rescue medication (10 hrs. 43 min. vs. 4 hrs. 18 min) in those patients that underwent bunionectomy 
was observed.   
•  Gynaecological surgery 
Two studies where parecoxib was administered post-operatively to patients who had undergone total 
abdominal hysterectomy or myomectomy were conducted.  
Study 019   Patients were randomized to a single intravenous dose of: placebo n=42; parecoxib 20 mg 
n= 39; parecoxib 40 mg n= 38; ketorolac 30 mg n=41; morphine sulfate 4 mg n=42.  Results for PID 
and other criteria indicated equivalence of efficacy for the three non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
and superiority over placebo and morphine. 
Study 021  consisted  of a  single-dose (up to 24 hours) and  multiple-dose  (up to five  days) phase  in  
patients who had undergone an elective abdominal hysterectomy or myomectomy. Treatments were: 
placebo  n=45;  morphine  sulphate  4  mg  n=38;  ketorolac  30  mg  n=42;  parecoxib  20  mg  n=38;  
parecoxib 40 mg n=41.  The efficacy results of the single dose phase were similar to those of Study 
019  and  indicated  equivalence  of  the  non-steroidal  treatments  and  superiority  over  placebo  at  most 
time  points.    Eighty-six    (41%)  patients  were  evaluable  in  the  multiple-dose  phase,  of  these  only 
sixteen  remained  in  the  study  by  day  three.    Results  for  patients’  global  impression  of  analgesia  on 
Day 2 were not statistically different between treatments. 
•  Opiate-sparing  
Four  studies  examined  the  opiate  sparing  effect  of  treatment  with  parecoxib  patients  undergoing 
elective lower abdominal  gynecological surgery, knee or hip replacement surgery or coronary artery 
bypass graft surgery.  
Study  029  was  in  patients  undergoing  elective  lower  abdominal  gynecological  surgery.    They  were 
randomised  to:  parecoxib  20  mg  n=73;  parecoxib  40  mg  n=70;  placebo  n=73.  The  primary  efficacy 
measure  was  the  amount  of  morphine  consumed  within  24  hours  after  the  first  dose  of  study 
medication,  using  patient  controlled  analgesia.  Treatment  differences  were  not  statistically  different; 
none of the four secondary efficacy variables showed significant differences.  
Study  035  was  in  patients  undergoing  elective  coronary  artery  bypass  grafting  (CABG).  They  were 
randomized  2:1  to  parecoxib/valdecoxib  40  mg  twice  daily,  or  placebo.  All  patients  had  access  to 
morphine sulfate through patient controlled analgesia.  After a minimum of 72 hours, i.v. (parecoxib) 
was  switched  to  oral  (valdecoxib)  treatment.  Differences  in  total  morphine  consumption  were 
statistically  significant  for  the  first  72  hours.    However,  there  was  a  by-country  interaction  and  if 
Germany and the United Kingdom where consumption was lower are removed the significance is lost. 
Study 028 in hip replacement and study 033 in knee replacement were submitted during the course of 
the centralised procedure. Both were conducted to a similar design. Adult patients undergoing surgery 
were randomised to placebo; parecoxib 20 mg i.v.; parecoxib 40 mg i.v. Treatments were administered 
with  the  first  dose  of  morphine  titrated  in  small  boluses  to  patient  comfort.  Patients  then  self-
administered  morphine  by  patient  controlled  analgesia  (PCA).  Re-medication  with  parecoxib  or 
placebo was at 12 and 24 hours after the first dose. The primary efficacy variable was the amount of 
morphine consumed within 24 hours of the first dose of study medication. 
For Study 028 the differences in favour of active treatment were statistically significant (p ~ 0.002). 
For Study 033 the difference between placebo and parecoxib 20 mg is not statistically significant (p = 
0.105); that between placebo and parecoxib 40 mg is significant (p < 0.001). These two new studies in 
hip  and  knee  surgery  show  a  morphine  sparing  effect  allowing,  very  approximately,  a  20  –  40% 
reduction in the dose of morphine.  
It  may  be  concluded  that  parecoxib  and  morphine  can  safely  be  used  together  and  can  result  in  a 
reduction  in  morphine  dose  through  concomitant  administration.  However,  the  reduction  did  not 
appear to translate into a reduction in the side effects usually associated with morphine use, such as 
vomiting,  nausea,  constipation  or  respiratory  depression.  Whether  its  combined  use  translated  into 
symptomatic benefit for the patient was an issue of concern. Together the CPMP did not consider that 
there  was  convincing  benefit  to  the  patient  in  terms  of  a  reduction  of  the  frequency  or  severity  of 
opiate-related adverse events. 
CPMP/1166/02 
14/20 
EMEA 2004 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No clinical trials have been conducted in children.  
Clinical safety 
A total of 3550 healthy subjects received either parecoxib sodium or valdecoxib via the intravenous, 
intramuscular or oral routes of administration; 1269 received placebo and 1205 received NSAIDs or 
other active comparators. Of the 2403 patients or subjects who received parecoxib sodium, 489 
received the drug as IM injections. Most of the patients who received parecoxib sodium IM (n=453) 
were given a single injection. As the apparent safety profile of parecoxib is likely to change with the 
severity of the condition being treated, the data are considered under headings of the types of surgery 
involved. 
•  Dental surgery 
There  were  no  deaths  or  withdrawals  from  studies  due  to  adverse  events  in  the  dental  surgery 
programme.  Adverse  events  do  not  lead  to  any  impression  of  a  dose  response  relationship  with 
parecoxib.  Indeed the frequency of events for low dose parecoxib was often higher than for high dose 
parecoxib. 
A  review  of  the  data  from  six  dental  surgery  trials  show  that  the  incidence  of  alveolar  osteitis  was 
numerically  more  frequent  after  parecoxib  than  after  placebo,  but  considerable  variability  in  the 
incidence rate was observed between the studies.  A possible explanation for the great variability even 
between  the  placebo  groups  is  that  the  investigators  have  used  different  criteria  for  the  diagnosis  of 
alveolar osteitis.  
•  Orthopaedic and Gynaecological Surgery 
Just over six hundred patients have been treated with parecoxib at doses of 20 mg or 40 mg per day, in 
studies  in  orthopaedic  and  gynaecological  surgery.  Of  these  about  sixty-five  percent  have  received 
single dose treatments.  
Deaths 
There was one death; an 89-year-old  man who was in  the  parecoxib sodium 20  mg treatment group 
died from a stroke nine days after study medication. 
Study Withdrawals and frequent adverse events (see tables 3 and 4 respectively) 
Table 3  AEs causing withdrawal of at least 1% of patients from the study 
Event 
Placebo 
Morphine
NSAIDS 
Parecoxib 
20 mg 
(n=307) 
Parecoxib 
40 mg 
(n=302) 
(n=305) 
(n=162) 
(n=165) 
Studies 018, 019, 020 and 037 (orthopaedic) and 021 and 029 (hysterectomy/myomectomy) 
Any event 
Fever 
Headache 
Nausea 
3.6 
0.3 
0.7 
1.0 
3.6 
0.3 
2.0 
0.7 
4.6 
0.0 
1.0 
0.3 
3.7 
0 
1.9 
0.0 
6.1 
3.6 
2.4 
0.0 
CPMP/1166/02 
15/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4  Adverse events with an incidence of at least 3% in any treatment group 
Morphine
Placebo 
Event 
NSAIDS 
Parecoxib 
20 mg 
(n=307) 
Parecoxib 
40 mg 
(n=302) 
(n=162) 
(n=165) 
Any Event 
Abdominal fullness 
Abdominal pain 
Anaemia 
Anxiety 
Back pain 
Confusion 
Constipation 
Dizziness 
Dyspepsia 
Excess sweating 
Fever 
Headache 
Hypotension 
Insomnia 
Nausea 
Pruritus 
Reduced bowel sounds 
Somnolence 
Tachycardia 
Vomiting 
(n=305) 
70.2 
5.2 
6.6 
3.9 
2.0 
2.3 
2.3 
5.2 
6.2 
3 
1.0 
17.7 
9.5 
1.3 
2.3 
39 
11.8 
1.3 
5.2 
2.0 
13.8 
74.3 
3.6 
6.2 
3.6 
2.0 
2.9 
1.3 
5.9 
9.4 
2.3 
2.6 
8.8 
9.1 
2.3 
3.6 
31.9 
14.7 
1.6 
3.3 
2.9 
13.7 
72.2 
2.0 
6.6 
4.6 
2.3 
2.3 
1.0 
5.0 
7.6 
3.3 
1.3 
7.6 
8.6 
3.3 
0.0 
30.5 
11.6 
0.3 
2.3 
2.3 
11.3 
77.8 
3.7 
8.6 
3.7 
4.3 
3.7 
3.1 
8.6 
7.4 
3.1 
1.2 
16.3 
7.4 
1.9 
4.9 
25.3 
6.8 
3.1 
8.6 
3.7 
13.6 
73.9 
3.0 
9.1 
2.4 
1.2 
1.2 
1.2 
6.1 
8.5 
2.4 
3.6 
23 
15.2 
4.2 
4.8 
23.6 
4.8 
1.6 
7.9 
6.1 
15.2 
•  Coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG) 
Deaths 
Four of the 311 patients (1.3%) randomised to parecoxib 40 mg b.i.d. died. None of the 151 patients 
on placebo died.  Although none of the deaths was attributed to test treatment by the applicant or study 
events  committee  one  patient  developed  renal  failure  and  one  gastrointestinal  bleeding  as  the  initial 
event in a sequence ultimately resulting in death.  
Serious Adverse Events 
Table 5 shows serious adverse events experienced in CABG surgery it should be pointed out that it is 
for the entire duration of the study (fourteen days).  
CPMP/1166/02 
16/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Table 5  Serious adverse events in CABG patients – by treatment (%) 
Event 
Any Event 
Abnormal renal function 
Cardiac failure 
Cerebrovasular disorder 
DVT 
Elevated creatinine 
GI bleeding 
Myocardial infarction 
Pleural effusion 
Pneumonia 
Wound dehiscence 
Wound infection 
Placebo 
4.8 
0.0 
1.9 
1.3 
0.0 
0.0 
0.0 
0.6 
1.3 
4.0 
0.0 
0.0 
Active 
19.0 
1.9 
1.2 
4.8 
1.0 
1.3 
1.3 
2.9 
2.6 
1.6 
1.6 
1.6 
In the cardiac surgery study, there was a trend of a higher incidence rate of cerebrovascular events in 
patients  receiving  parecoxib/valdecoxib  compared  to  placebo.  Such  events  seem  to  be  associated  to 
known risk factors (cerebrovascular disease, hypertension, advanced age, aortic atherosclerosis, atrial 
fibrillation, diabetes).  An appropriate warning has been included in the SPC. 
Safety in Pre-operative administration studies 
The  type,  frequency  and  severity  of  adverse  events  observed  in  the  pre-operative  administration 
surgery studies were similar to those observed in comparable surgical models in which parecoxib was 
administered post-operatively  
Safety in special populations 
•  Renal impairment 
Experience with parecoxib in patients with renal dysfunction is limited to one study.  In the renal 
impairment study patients with normal, mild, moderate, and severe impairment, and those on 
haemodialysis received single doses of 20 mg parecoxib i.v. and oral valdecoxib. The effects of renal 
impairment on drug related substance were studied, as were the effects of the drug on renal function. 
The results for valdecoxib following i.v. parecoxib do not indicate any serious safety problem should 
the drug be unknowingly given to patients with renal impairment.  Also there seems to be little, if any, 
effect of single administration of the product on renal function as judged by renal clearance studies 
before and after exposure (Table 6).  However it is recommended that parecoxib is used with caution 
in patients with renal impairment. 
CPMP/1166/02 
17/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
Table 6 The effect of valdecoxib following i.v. parecoxib in renally impaired patients 
Renal clearance 
mL/min/1.73m2 
(mean & range) 
AUC 0 →∝ (ng.hr/mL) 
Cmax (ng/mL) 
T1/2 
Renal CL (L/hr) 
Nonrenal CL (L/hr) 
Normal 
Mild (n=10) 
Moderate 
Severe 
Dialysis 
(n=20) 
(n=8) 
(n=11) 
(n=12) 
91 (81-115) 
64 (50-77) 
37 (31-46) 
17 (7-28) 
---- 
2768 
385 
8.67 
0.18 
6.44 
3756 
385 
11.8 
0.12 
4.76 
2989 
302 
10.7 
0.09 
5.98 
3562 
288 
14.1 
0.04 
5.79 
3133 
265 
9.93 
--- 
--- 
•  Elderly 
One hundred and fifty seven patients over the age of seventy-five have been included in the database 
from two new surgical studies. Comparison of the safety profile in those patients with that in patients 
younger than seventy-five does not lead to any evident differences. Despite the lack of rigour of the 
negative  finding  of  no  difference,  the  data  base  contains  over  150  patients  more  than  seventy-five 
years old which seems a reasonable number albeit not ‘powerful’ enough to find a difference between 
the elderly and non-elderly. 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
In  general  the  quality  of  this  product  is  considered  to  be  acceptable  and  indicates  that  the  active 
substance and finished product are manufactured and controlled satisfactorily and in compliance with 
current EU guidelines.  Satisfactory information has been provided to show that these manufacture and 
control processes are well controlled, routinely and consistently generate a product of uniform quality 
and should perform in a reproducible way in practice when used in accordance with the instructions 
defined in the SPC.   
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  preclinical  studies  have  adequately  characterised  the  pharmacology  and  toxicology  of  the 
compound.  Carcinogenicity studies were not conducted, but since parecoxib is intended for short-term 
use only this was considered to be acceptable. This information has been included in the SPC.  
Efficacy 
Parecoxib is effective in relieving moderate to severe post-operative pain. As there is limited clinical 
experience beyond 2 days, parecoxib is recommended for short term use. The opiate-sparing effect of 
parecoxib has been described in section 4.5 (Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms 
of interaction) of the SPC.   
Safety 
Evaluation  of  the  safety  of  parecoxib  is  complicated  by  the  surgical  background.  The  nature  of  the 
procedures varied from very low risk, through intermediate risk, to high risk, (coronary artery bypass 
grafting CABG ). Many of the adverse events are attributable to surgery rather than the investigational 
drug treatments and their nature and frequency will obviously vary with the type of surgery. The study 
in  CABG  is  different  to  the  others  in  that  it  was  of  longer  duration,  the  patient  population  was  of 
higher risk, and the safety profile of parecoxib seemed less favourable that in other studies. Therefore 
the SPC has been amended to indicate that CABG patients may have a higher risk of serious adverse 
events, also identifying those serious adverse events.  
CPMP/1166/02 
18/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Based  on  the  CPMP  review  of  the  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CPMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Dynastat  (parecoxib  sodium)  was  favourable  for  the  ‘short 
term treatment of postoperative pain’. 
6. 
Post marketing experience 
The  CPMP  has  been  made  aware  of  reports  of  serious  hypersensitivity  reactions  (anaphylaxis  and 
angioedema)  and  serious  skin  reactions  including  Stevens-Johnson  syndrome,  toxic  epidermal 
necrolysis,  erythema  multiforme  and  exfoliative  dermatitis  in  patients  treated  with  valdecoxib,  the 
active  metabolite  of  Parecoxib  sodium.  Some  of  these  reactions  have  occurred  in  patients  with  a 
history of allergic-type reactions to sulphonamides. It is possible  that  such reactions  may also  occur 
with the use of Parecoxib sodium.  
As of September 26, 2002, a total of seven case reports with fifteen adverse events associated with the 
use  of  Parecoxib  sodium  have  been  received  by  the  MAH.  The  reports  include  allergic  reaction, 
breathlessness,  increased  heart  rate,  vertigo  and  injection  site  abscess.  The  estimated  exposure  since 
launch is approximately 140,000 patients. So far, there have been no reports of serious skin reactions 
and  only  one  report  of  serious  hypersensitivity  reaction  associated  with  parecoxib  sodium 
administration.  
However,  in  order  to  prevent  the  occurrence  of  such  serious  reactions,  the  Product  Information  of 
parecoxib  sodium  has  been  revised  through  an  Urgent  Safety  Restriction  procedure  during  October 
2002  CPMP  to  inform  prescribers  that  parecoxib  is  contraindicated  in  patients  with  a  history  of 
hypersensitivity  to  sulphonamides.  Moreover,  it  informs  that  in  post  marketing  experience, 
hypersensitivity  reactions  including  anaphylaxis,  angioedema  and  serious  skin  reactions  including 
erythema  multiforme,  exfoliative  dermatitis,  Stevens-Johnson  syndrome  and  toxic  epidermal 
necrolysis have been reported in association with valdecoxib and may also occur with parecoxib. The 
patient leaflet has also been revised accordingly. 
Safety issues assessed through an Article 31 referral procedure started in July 2002.  
Further to a request from France, the CPMP, during its meeting held from 23 to 25 July 2002 decided 
to  start  a  referral  procedure  under  Article  31  of  Directive  2001/83/EC  as  amended,  for  medicinal 
products  containing  celecoxib,  etoricoxib,  parecoxib,  rofecoxib  and  valdecoxib.  The  questions 
identified  related  to  gastrointestinal  and  cardiovascular  safety.  In  October  2002,  the  CPMP  asked 
additional  questions  relating  to  serious  hypersensitivity  reactions  (anaphylaxis  and  angioedema)  and 
serious  skin  reactions  including  Stevens-Johnson  syndrome,  toxic  epidermal  necrolysis,  erythema 
multiforme and exfoliative dermatitis in patients treated with COX-2 inhibitors. 
The conclusions for medicinal products containing parecoxib are as follows: 
•  Gastrointestinal toxicity  
Available  data  indicate  that  significant  and  consistent  gastrointestinal  benefit  of  COX-2  inhibitors 
compared  with  conventional  NSAIDs  has  not  been  demonstrated.  Parecoxib  showed  a  better 
tolerability than NSAIDs with regard to gastrointestinal effects. However these conclusions are based 
on very limited data from clinical studies and little usage experience in the post-licensing period, and 
are insofar preliminary. Furthermore, no data on safety in post surgical patients with regard to stress 
ulcer are available. 
Therefore,  a  general  statement  has  been  added  in  section  4.4  “Special  warnings  and  special 
precautions  for  use”  and  5.1  “Pharmacodynamic  properties”  of  the  SPC  for  all  COX-2  inhibitors 
relating to patients at risk of developing gastrointestinal complications with NSAIDs. 
CPMP/1166/02 
19/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It  is  unknown  whether  the  gastrointestinal  toxicity  profile  of  COX-2  inhibitors  in  association  with 
acetylsalicylic acid is inferior to conventional NSAIDs given with acetylsalicylic acid but there is no 
evidence  to  suggest  it  would  be  superior.    Based  on  the  current  data  on  parecoxib  the  product 
information  should  be  updated  to  include  the  potential  for  increase  in  gastrointestinal  toxicity 
compared with COX-2 inhibitors or acetylsalicylic acid alone. 
Further  to  discussions  and  considering  the  assessment  of  the  data  presented  for  all  the  COX-2 
inhibitors,  the  section  4.4  “Special  warnings  and  special  precautions  for  use”  of  the  SPC  has  been 
updated  regarding  concomitant  use  of  all  COX-2  inhibitors  with  a  general  statement  on  COX-2 
inhibitors and acetylsalicylic acid association. 
•  Cardiovascular toxicity 
The  available  pre-clinical  data  raised  concern  about  cardiovascular  (CV)  safety,  in  particular 
myocardial  infarction  (MI),  however,  conflicting  clinical  results  have  often  been  obtained.  The 
difference  in  antiplatelet  activity  between  some  COX-1  inhibiting  NSAIDs  and  COX-2  selective 
inhibitors  may  be  of  clinical  significance  in  patients  at  risk  of  thrombo-embolic  reactions.  In 
comparison  to  placebo  there  may  be  an  increased  risk  for  thromboembolic  events  in  high 
cardiovascular risk patients. However, the database is very limited. The database is also very limited 
for comparisons versus conventional NSAIDs. Therefore, parecoxib use is not recommended in high 
cardiovascular risk patients undergoing major surgeries.  
With respect to CV risk, it can be considered that there may be a small safety disadvantage of COX-2 
inhibitors  compared  to  conventional  NSAIDs.    Therefore,  the  SPC  has  been  updated  for  all  COX-2 
inhibitors, including parecoxib, in its section 4.4 “Special warnings and special precautions for use” by 
adding a warning statement for patients with a medical history of cardiovascular disease or those using 
low dose of ASA-treatment for prophylaxis of cardiovascular thrombo-embolic diseases.  
•  Hypersensitivity and serious skin reactions 
The  Product  Information  of  parecoxib  sodium  was  revised  through  an  Urgent  Safety  Restriction 
procedure  during  October  2002  CPMP.The  statement  in  section  4.4  “Special  warnings  and  special 
precautions  for  use”  relating  to  hypersensitivity  and  serious  skin  reactions  with  Dynastat  was  then 
already  in  line  with  the  adopted  conclusions  resulting  from  this  referral  procedure.  Therefore,  no 
update was requested at this stage. 
•  Conclusion 
Further  to  the  finalisation  of  the  referral  procedure  under  Article  31  of  Directive  2001/83/EC  as 
amended,  for  medicinal  products  containing  celecoxib,  etoricoxib,  parecoxib,  rofecoxib  and 
valdecoxib, gastrointestinal and cardiovascular data have been updated in the SPC and in the PL for 
Dynastat: 
- 
- 
- 
to promote the safe use of Dynastat by adding or strengthening warnings, in particular 
recommending  caution 
for  patients  with  underlying  gastrointestinal  and 
cardiovascular risks, 
to include the potential for increase in gastrointestinal toxicity compared with COX-2 
inhibitors or acetylsalicylic acid alone, 
to  add  a  warning  statement  for  patients  with  a  medical  history  of  cardiovascular 
disease  or those  using low dose  of ASA-treatment  for prophylaxis  of cardiovascular 
thrombo-embolic diseases. 
CPMP/1166/02 
20/20 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
