EMA/344077/2020  
EMEA/H/C/000381 
Dynastat (parecoxib) 
An overview of Dynastat and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Dynastat and what is it used for? 
Dynastat is a painkilling medicine for use in adults for the short-term relief of pain after an operation. 
It contains the active substance parecoxib.  
How is Dynastat used? 
Dynastat is available as an injection and it can only be obtained with a prescription.  
Dynastat can be given into a vein or a muscle. The first dose of 40 mg is followed by further doses of 
20 or 40 mg every 6 to 12 hours, up to a maximum total dose of 80 mg a day.  
For more information about using Dynastat, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Dynastat work? 
The active substance in Dynastat, parecoxib, is converted to valdecoxib in the body. Valdecoxib is a 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that belongs to the group of medicines called 
cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors. It blocks the COX-2 enzyme, resulting in reduced production of 
prostaglandins, substances that are involved in inflammation. By reducing prostaglandins, Dynastat 
helps to reduce the symptoms of inflammation, including pain. 
What benefits of Dynastat have been shown in studies? 
Dynastat was studied in over 2,500 adults who had surgical procedures including dental, orthopaedic 
(bone) and gynaecological surgery (surgery on the female reproductive system). Dynastat was 
compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) as well as with other painkillers such as ibuprofen, 
ketorolac, morphine, tramadol and valdecoxib. Dynastat was generally more effective than placebo and 
as effective as other painkillers. Dynastat also reduced the need for morphine. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What are the risks associated with Dynastat? 
The most common side effect with Dynastat (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is nausea 
(feeling sick). The most serious side effects (which may affect fewer than 1 in 100 people) include 
myocardial infarction (heart attack), severe reduction in blood pressure and allergic reactions. 
Dynastat must not be used in patients who have had a serious allergic reaction to a medicine, have 
allergies to a class of medicines called sulfonamides or have certain illnesses including those affecting 
the gastrointestinal system, liver and heart. Women must not be given Dynastat during the last 3 
months of pregnancy or if they are breast-feeding. It must not be used to relieve pain after certain 
types of heart surgery. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Dynastat, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Dynastat authorised in the EU? 
Dynastat was found effective for relieving pain after surgery and its side effects are manageable. 
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Dynastat’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Dynastat? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Dynastat have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Dynastat are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Dynastat are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Dynastat 
Dynastat received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 22 March 2002. 
Further information on Dynastat can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/dynastat.  
This overview was last updated in 06-2020. 
Dynastat (parecoxib)  
EMA/344077/2020 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
