ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Dzuveo 30 micrograms sublingual tablet 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each sublingual tablet contains 30 micrograms of sufentanil (as citrate).  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Sublingual tablet. 
Blue-coloured flat-faced tablet with round edges and a diameter of 3 mm. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Dzuveo is indicated for the management of acute moderate to severe pain in adult patients. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Dzuveo is to be administered by a healthcare professional in a medically monitored setting only. A 
medically monitored setting must have equipment and personnel trained to detect and manage 
hypoventilation, and availability of supplemental oxygen and opioid antagonists, such as naloxone. 
Dzuveo should only be prescribed and administered by healthcare professionals who are experienced 
in the management of opioid therapy; particularly opioid adverse reactions, such as respiratory 
depression (see section 4.4). 
Posology 
Dzuveo is provided in a disposable single-dose applicator, to be administered by a healthcare provider 
as needed by the individual patient, but no more than once every hour, resulting in a maximum dose of 
720 micrograms /day. Patients with a higher pain intensity at one hour after sufentanil treatment was 
initiated required more frequent redosing compared to patients with lower pain intensity scores at 
one  hour. 
Dzuveo should not be used beyond 48 hours. 
Elderly 
No specific dose adjustment is required in elderly patients. However, elderly patients should be 
observed closely for adverse reactions of sufentanil (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic or renal impairment 
Sufentanil should be administered with caution to patients with moderate to severe hepatic or severe 
renal impairment (see section 4.4). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of sufentanil in children and adolescents below 18 years have not been 
established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For sublingual use only. 
Dzuveo is to be administered by a healthcare professional from a disposable single-dose applicator 
(see section 6.6). The applicator is used as a placement aid for the healthcare professional to deliver  the 
tablet under the tongue, on an as needed basis, per patient request, with a minimum of 1 hour  between 
doses. 
The dispensed sublingual tablet should dissolve under the tongue and should not be chewed or 
swallowed. If swallowed, the oral bioavailability of Dzuveo is only 9% which would result in a sub-
therapeutic dose. Patients should not eat or drink and should minimise talking for 10 minutes after 
each dose of sufentanil 30 mcg sublingual tablet. In the case of an excessive dry mouth, patients may 
be given ice cubes. Some insoluble excipients of the tablet may remain in the mouth after dissolution 
is complete; this is normal and does not indicate lack of absorption of sufentanil from the tablet. 
See section 6.6 for instructions regarding handling of the Dzuveo sublingual tablet and applicator. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  Significant 
respiratory depression or pulmonary compromise. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Respiratory depression 
Sufentanil may cause respiratory depression, for which the degree/severity is dose related. The 
respiratory effects of sufentanil should be assessed by clinical monitoring, e.g. respiratory rate, 
sedation level and oxygen saturation. Patients at higher risk are those with respiratory impairment or 
reduced respiratory reserve. Respiratory depression caused by sufentanil can be reversed by opioid 
antagonists. Repeat antagonist administration may be required as the duration of respiratory  depression 
may last longer than the duration of the effect of the antagonist (see section 4.9). 
Risk from concomitant use of sedative medicines such as benzodiazepines or related medicinal 
products 
Concomitant use of sufentanil and sedative medicines such as benzodiazepines or related medicinal 
products may result in sedation, respiratory depression, coma and death. Because of these risks, 
concomitant prescribing with these sedative medicines should be reserved for patients for whom 
alternative treatment options are not possible, or when sufentanil is used in an emergency setting. 
Intracranial pressure 
Sufentanil should be used with caution in patients who may be particularly susceptible to the cerebral 
effects of CO2 retention, such as those with evidence of increased intracranial pressure or impaired 
consciousness. Sufentanil may obscure the clinical course of patients with head injury. Sufentanil 
should be used with caution in patients with brain tumours. 
Cardiovascular effects 
Sufentanil may produce bradycardia. Therefore, it should be used with caution in patients with 
previous or pre-existing bradyarrhythmias. 
Sufentanil may cause hypotension, especially in hypovolemic patients. Appropriate measures should 
be taken to maintain stable arterial pressure. 
Impaired hepatic or renal function 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sufentanil is primarily metabolised in the liver and excreted in the urine and faeces. The duration of 
activity may be prolonged in patients with severe hepatic and renal impairment. Only limited data are 
available for the use of sufentanil in such patients. Patients with moderate to severe hepatic or severe 
renal impairment should be monitored carefully for symptoms of sufentanil overdose (see section 4.9). 
Tolerance and Opioid Use Disorder (abuse and dependence) 
Tolerance, physical and psychological dependence, and opioid use disorder (OUD) may develop upon 
repeated administration of opioids. 
Abuse or intentional misuse of Dzuveo may result in overdose and/or death. The risk of developing 
OUD is increased in patients with a personal or a family history (parents or siblings) of substance use 
disorders (including alcohol use disorder), in current tobacco users or in patients with a personal history 
of other mental health disorders (e.g. major depression, anxiety and personality disorders).  
Patients will require monitoring for signs of drug-seeking behaviour (e.g. too early requests for refills). 
This includes the review of concomitant opioids and psycho-active drugs (like benzodiazepines). For 
patients with signs and symptoms of OUD, consultation with an addiction specialist should be 
considered. 
Gastrointestinal effects 
Sufentanil as a μ-opioid receptor agonist may slow the gastrointestinal motility. Therefore, sufentanil 
should be used with caution in patients at risk of ileus. 
Sufentanil as a μ-opioid receptor agonist may cause spasm of the sphincter of Oddi. Therefore, 
sufentanil should be used with caution in patients with biliary tract disease, including acute 
pancreatitis. 
Opioid induced hyperalgesia 
As with other opioids, in case of insufficient pain control in response to an increased dose of sufentanil, 
the possibility of opioid-induced hyperalgesia should be considered. A dose reduction or 
discontinuation of sufentanil treatment or treatment review may be indicated. 
Sleep-related breathing disorders 
Opioids can cause sleep-related breathing disorders including central sleep apnea (CSA) and sleep-
related hypoxemia. Opioid use increases the risk of CSA in a dose-dependent fashion. In patients who 
present with CSA, consider decreasing the total opioid dosage. 
Excipients  
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Interaction with cytochrome P450-3A4 enzyme 
Sufentanil is primarily metabolised by the human cytochrome P450-3A4 enzyme. Ketoconazole, a 
potent CYP3A4 inhibitor, can significantly increase the systemic exposure to sublingual sufentanil 
(maximal plasma levels (Cmax) increase of 19%, overall exposure to the active substance (AUC) 
increase of 77% and prolong the time to reach maximum concentration by 41%. Similar effects with 
other potent CYP3A4 inhibitors (e. g. itraconazole, ritonavir) cannot be excluded. Any change in 
efficacy/tolerability associated with the increased exposure would be compensated in practice by an 
increase in the amount of time between doses (see section 4.2). 
Interaction with calcium channel and/or beta blockers 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The incidence and degree of bradycardia and hypotension with sufentanil may be greater in patients on 
chronic calcium channel and/or beta blocker therapy. 
Caution should be exercised in patients on these concomitant medicinal products and they should be 
closely monitored. 
Central nervous system (CNS) depressants 
The concomitant use of CNS depressants including barbiturates, benzodiazepines, neuroleptics or 
other opioids, halogen gases or other non-selective CNS depressants (e.g. alcohol) may enhance 
respiratory depression. 
The concomitant use of opioids and gabapentinoids (gabapentin and pregabalin) increases the risk of 
opioid overdose, respiratory depression and death. 
When considering the use of sufentanil in a patient taking a CNS depressant, the duration of use of the 
CNS depressant and the patient’s response should be assessed, including the degree of tolerance that 
has developed to CNS depression. If the decision to begin sufentanil is made, the patient should be 
closely monitored and a lower dose of the concomitant CNS depressant should be considered. 
Co-administration of sufentanil with a serotonergic agent, such as Selective Serotonin Reuptake 
Inhibitors (SSRIs), Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors (SNRIs), or Monoamine Oxidase 
Inhibitors (MAOIs), may increase the risk of serotonin syndrome, a potentially life threatening 
condition. Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors must not be taken in the 2 weeks before or at the same time 
as Dzuveo is given. 
Others 
Interaction with other sublingually administered products or products intended to dilute/establish an 
effect in the oral cavity were not evaluated and simultaneous administration should be avoided. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of sufentanil in pregnant women. Studies in 
animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Sufentanil should not be used in 
pregnancy, because it crosses the placenta and the foetal respiratory center is sensitive to opiates. If 
sufentanil is administered to the mother during this time, an antidote for the child should be readily 
available. Following long-term treatment sufentanil may cause withdrawal symptoms in the newborn. 
Sufentanil is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using 
contraception. 
Breast-feeding 
Sufentanil is excreted in human milk to such an extent that effects on the breastfed newborns/infants 
are likely. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain 
from sufentanil therapy taking into account the benefit of breast feeding for the child and the benefit of 
therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
There are no clinical data on the effects of sufentanil on fertility. Studies in rats have revealed reduced 
fertility and enhanced embryo mortality (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Sufentanil has major influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Patients should be advised not 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to drive or operate machinery if they experience somnolence, dizziness, or visual disturbance while 
taking or after the treatment with sufentanil. Patients should only drive and use machines if sufficient 
time has elapsed after the last administration of sufentanil. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most serious adverse reaction of sufentanil is respiratory depression, which occurred at a rate of 
0.6% in sufentanil clinical trials. 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions seen in clinical trials and from post marketing 
experience with sufentanil containing products were nausea, vomiting and pyrexia (≥1/10 patients) 
(see section 4.4). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions identified either from clinical studies or from post marketing experience with other 
medicinal products containing sufentanil are summarised in the table below. The frequencies are 
defined as: 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
not known 
≥1/10 
≥1/100 to <1/10   
≥1/1 000 to <1/100  
≥1/10 000 to <1/1 000 
<1/10 000 
cannot be estimated from the available data. 
MedDRA system organ 
class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Very 
common 
Neoplasm benign, 
malignant and  unspecified 
(including  cysts and 
polyps) 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Bronchitis 
Conjunctivitis infective 
Pharyngitis 
Lipoma 
Thrombocytopenia 
Hypomagnesaemia 
Hypoproteinaemia 
Hyperkalaemia 
Diabetes mellitus 
Hyperglycaemia 
Hyperlipidaemia 
Hypophosphataemia 
Hypovolaemia 
Anaphylactic 
shock 
Anaemia 
Leukocytosis 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypocalcaemia 
Hypoalbuminaemia 
Hypokalaemia 
Hyponatraemia 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
MedDRA system organ 
class 
Psychiatric disorders 
Very 
common 
Nervous system  disorders 
Eye disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Insomnia  
Anxiety 
Confusional state 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Somnolence 
Sedation 
Tachycardia  
Sinus tachycardia 
Hypotension 
Hypertension 
Hypoxia 
Pharyngolaryngeal 
pain 
Respiratory 
Depression 
Gastrointestinal  disorders  Nausea 
Vomiting 
Constipation 
Dyspepsia  Flatulence 
Dry Mouth 
7 
Convulsions 
Coma 
Miosis 
Respiratory  arrest 
Agitation 
Apathy 
Conversion disorder 
Disorientation 
Euphoric mood 
Hallucination 
Mental status changes 
Nervousness 
Tremor  
Ataxia 
Dystonia 
Hyperreflexia   
Burning sensation 
Presyncope 
Paraesthesia 
Hypoaesthesia 
Lethargy 
Memory impairment 
Migraine 
Tension headache 
Eye pain 
Visual disturbance 
Bradycardia 
Angina pectoris 
Atrial fibrillation 
Ventricular extrasystoles 
Orthostatic hypertension 
Flushing 
Diastolic hypotension 
Orthostatic hypotension 
Bradypnoea 
Epistaxis 
Hiccups  
Apnoea 
Atelectasis 
Hypoventilation 
Pulmonary embolism 
Pulmonary oedema 
Respiratory distress 
Respiratory failure 
Wheezing 
Diarrhoea 
Eructation 
Retching 
Abdominal discomfort 
Abdominal distension 
Abdominal Pain upper 
Epigastric discomfort 
Gastritis 
Gastroesophageal reflux 
disease 
Hypoaesthesia oral 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
MedDRA system organ 
class 
Hepatobilary disorders 
Very 
common 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Pruritus 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue  disorders 
Muscle spasms 
Muscle twitching 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
Urinary retention 
Erythema 
Hyperbilirubinaemia 
Hyperhidrosis 
Hypoaesthesia facial 
Pruritus generalized 
Blister 
Rash  
Dry Skin 
Back Pain 
Musculoskeletal pain 
Musculoskeletal chest 
pain 
Pain in extremity 
Urinary hesitation 
Oliguria 
Renal failure   
Urinary tract pain 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Pyrexia 
Drug  withdrawal 
syndrome 
Feeling hot  
Fatigue  
Asthenia   
Chills 
Local swelling 
Non-cardiac chest pain   
Chest discomfort 
Investigations 
Oxygen saturation 
decreased 
Body temperature 
increased 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
Anaemia 
postoperative 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
8 
Blood pressure increased   
Respiratory rate  decreased 
Blood glucose increased 
Blood bilirubin increased 
Urine output decreased 
Aspartate  aminotransferase 
increased 
Blood urea increased 
Electrocardiogram T  wave 
abnormal 
Electrocardiogram 
abnormal 
Hepatic enzyme  increased 
Liver function test 
abnormal 
Procedural nausea 
Postoperative ileus 
Procedural vomiting 
Gastrointestinal stoma 
complication   
Procedural pain 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Signs and symptoms 
Sufentanil overdose is manifested by an exaggeration of its pharmacological effects. Depending on 
individual sensitivity, the clinical picture is determined by the degree of respiratory depression. This 
may range from hypoventilation to respiratory arrest. Other symptoms that may occur are loss of 
consciousness, coma, cardiovascular shock and muscle rigidity. 
Management 
Management of sufentanil overdose should be focused on treating symptoms of μ-opioid receptor 
agonism, including administration of oxygen. Primary attention should be given to obstruction of 
airways and the necessity of assisted or controlled ventilation. 
An opiate antagonist (e.g. naloxone) should be administered in the event of respiratory depression. 
This does not rule out more direct countermeasures. The shorter duration of activity of the opiate 
antagonist compared to that of sufentanil should be taken into account. In that case, the opioid 
antagonist can be administered repeatedly or by infusion. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Anesthetics, opioid anesthetics, ATC Code: N01AH03.   
Mechanism of action 
Sufentanil is a synthetic, potent opioid with highly selective binding to μ-opioid receptors. Sufentanil 
acts as a full agonist in μ-opioid receptors. Sufentanil does not induce histamine release. All effects of 
sufentanil can immediately and completely be blocked by administration of a specific antagonist such 
as naloxone. 
Primary pharmacodynamics effects 
Analgesia 
Analgesia induced by sufentanil is thought to be mediated via activation of μ-opioid receptors 
primarily within the CNS to alter processes affecting both the perception of and the response to pain. 
In humans the potency is 7 to 10-fold higher than fentanyl and 500 to 1,000-fold higher than morphine 
(per oral). The high lipophilicity of sufentanil allows it to be administered sublingually and achieve a 
rapid onset of analgesic effect. 
Secondary pharmacodynamics effects 
Respiratory depression 
Sufentanil may cause respiratory depression (see section 4.4) and also suppresses the cough reflex. 
Other CNS effects 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
High doses of intravenously administered sufentanil are known to cause muscle rigidity, probably as a 
result of an effect on the substantia nigra and the striate nucleus. Hypnotic activity can be 
demonstrated by EEG alterations. 
Gastrointestinal effects 
Analgesic plasma concentrations of sufentanil may provoke nausea and vomiting by irritation of the 
chemoreceptor trigger zone. 
Gastrointestinal effects of sufentanil comprise decreased propulsive motility, reduced secretion and 
increased muscle tone (up to spasms) of the sphincters of the gastrointestinal tract (see section 4.4). 
Cardiovascular effects 
Low doses of intravenous sufentanil associated with likely vagal (cholinergic) activity cause mild 
bradycardia and mildly reduced systemic vascular resistance without significantly lowering blood 
pressure (see section 4.4). 
Cardiovascular stability is also the result of minimal effects on cardiac preload, cardiac flow rate and 
myocardial oxygen consumption. Direct effects of sufentanil on myocardial function were not 
observed. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Analgesia 
The efficacy of Dzuveo was evaluated in two double-blind, placebo-controlled trials involving 221 
patients with moderate-to-severe acute postoperative pain (pain intensity of ≥ 4 on a 0-10 scale) after 
abdominal (studied up to 48 hours) or orthopedic (bunionectomy) surgery (studied up to 12 hours). Of 
the 221 patients, 147 received active treatment and 74 received placebo. Patients were predominantly 
female (63%), mean age was 41 years (range 18-74 years), BMI 15.8 to 53.5 kg/m2, race was 
predominately White (69%) and Black or African American (21%). Mean (SEM) baseline intensity in 
these trials was 6.48 (0.21) for the 12-hour bunionectomy trial in the sufentanil-treated patients and 
5.98  (0.30) for placebo-treated patients. In the abdominal surgery trial, mean baseline pain intensity 
was 5.61 (0.13) for sufentanil-treated patients and 5.48 (0.18) for placebo-treated patients. 
In both trials, the primary efficacy endpoint was the time-weighted sum of pain intensity difference 
(SPID) to baseline (measured on an 11-point NRS) over 12 hours (SPID12). Patients using Dzuveo 
had a mean SPID12 score that was superior to patients using placebo (25.8 vs. 13.1) in abdominal 
surgery patients (p<0.001) and (5.93 vs. -6.7) in bunionectomy patients (p=0.005) respectively. 
Rescue analgesia was allowed in both studies, with a higher proportion of patients in the placebo 
group requiring rescue medication due to inadequate analgesia (64.8%, 100%; abdominal, 
bunionectomy) than in the sufentanil group (27.1%, 70.0%;. abdominal, bunionectomy). Onset of 
analgesia, as measured by pain intensity difference to baseline scores, was greater (p<0.05) for 
sufentanil versus placebo by 15 minutes after the first dose in the abdominal study and 30 minutes in 
the bunionectomy study. The majority (>90%) of healthcare professionals found Dzuveo easy to use. 
In the two placebo-controlled clinical trials, the mean number of doses used in the first 6 hours of 
dosing was 2.8 tablets, with less frequent dosing in the following 6 hours (mean of 1.7 tablets). Over 
24 hours, the mean number of Dzuveo doses administered was 7.0 (210 micrograms/day). Patients 
with a higher pain intensity at one hour after Dzuveo treatment was initiated required more frequent 
redosing compared to patients with lower pain intensity scores at one hour. 
Respiratory depression 
Analgesic doses of sufentanil resulted in respiratory depressive effects in some patients in the clinical 
trials, however, no patient treated with Dzuveo required use of an opioid reversal drug (e.g. naloxone). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The pharmacokinetics of sufentanil after administration of Dzuveo can be described as a two- 
compartment model with first-order absorption. This route of administration results in higher absolute 
bioavailability than oral (swallowed) administration by avoiding intestinal and first-pass liver 3A4 
enzyme metabolism. Mean absolute bioavailability after a single sublingual administration of the 
sufentanil tablet relative to a one-minute intravenous sufentanil infusion of the same dose was 53%. 
In a study of a sufentanil 15 microgram sublingual tablet (with the same formulation as the 
30 microgram tablet), a substantially lower bioavailability of 9% after oral intake (swallowed) was 
observed. Buccal administration showed an increased bioavailability of 78% when the tablets were 
placed in front of the front lower teeth. 
Maximum concentrations of sufentanil are achieved approximately 60 minutes after a single dose; this 
is shortened to approximately 40 minutes following repeated hourly dosing. When Dzuveo is 
administered every hour, steady-state plasma concentrations are achieved by 7 doses. 
Distribution 
The central volume of distribution after intravenous application of sufentanil is approximately 14 litres 
and the volume of distribution at steady state is approximately 350 litres. 
Biotransformation 
Biotransformation takes place primarily in the liver and the small intestine. Sufentanil is mainly 
metabolised in humans by the cytochrome P450-3A4 enzyme system (see section 4.5). Sufentanil is 
rapidly metabolised to a number of inactive metabolites, with oxidative N- and O-dealkylation being 
the major routes of elimination. 
Elimination 
With Dzuveo, first dose clearance in the typical patient of weight 78.5 kg and age 47 years is 
84.2  L/hr. Steady-state clearance is 129.3 L/hr. Patient weight and age are key covariates on clearance. 
After single administration of Dzuveo, mean terminal phase half-live of 13.4 hours (range of 2.5 to 
34.4 hours) was observed. After multiple administrations, a longer mean terminal half-life of 
15.7  hours (range 2.4 to 42.7 hours) was observed, owing to the higher plasma concentrations of 
sufentanil  achieved after repeated dosing and due to the possibility to quantify these concentrations 
over a longer  time period. 
Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic Relationship 
With administration of Dzuveo, clinical duration of analgesia is largely determined by the time for the 
sufentanil plasma concentration to drop from Cmax to 50% of Cmax after discontinuation of dosing 
(context sensitive half-time or CST½) rather than by the terminal half-life. Following either a single 
dose or multiple doses hourly over 12 hours, the median CST½ remained 2.3 hours: the sublingual 
delivery route thus substantially extends the duration of action associated with intravenous sufentanil 
administration (CST½ of 0.1 hours). Similar CST½ values were observed following both single and 
repeated administration, demonstrating that there is a predictable and consistent duration of action  after 
multiple dosing of the sublingual tablet. 
Patients requested dosing with Dzuveo to maintain plasma sufentanil concentrations averaging 40- 
50 pg/ml at 12 hours, with no effect based on age or body mass index (BMI), or mild to moderate  renal 
or liver impairment. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis of plasma sufentanil concentrations following usage of Dzuveo 
did not identify renal function as a significant covariate for clearance. However, due to the limited 
number of patients with severe renal impairment studied, Dzuveo should be used with caution in such 
patients (see section 4.4). 
Hepatic impairment 
Based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis for Dzuveo, hepatic function was not identified as a 
significant covariate for clearance. Due to the limited number of patients with moderate to severe 
hepatic impairment, a potential effect of hepatic dysfunction as covariate on clearance may not have 
been detected. Therefore, Dzuveo should be used with caution in such patients (see section 4.4). 
Paediatric population 
No pharmacokinetic data exist for sufentanil in paediatric patients. 
Elderly 
No special population studies were performed using Dzuveo in the elderly. For Dzuveo, population 
pharmacokinetic analysis showed an effect of age, with an 18% decrease in clearance in the elderly 
(above 65 years of age). 
Effect of BMI on dosing 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis with weight as a covariate showed that patients with a higher 
BMI dosed more frequently. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Reproductive toxicity 
Fertility and early embryonic development studies were conducted in male and female rats. Increased 
mortality was noted in all treatment groups. 
Lower pregnancy rates were noted following treatment of males suggesting the potential for an  adverse 
effect on fertility in males. Increased resorption of foetuses and reduced litter size was noted  in the 
high dose females suggesting the potential for foetotoxicity, likely due to maternal toxicity. 
Mutagenicity 
The Ames test revealed no mutagenic activity of sufentanil.   
Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with sufentanil.   
Local tolerance 
Two local tolerance studies were conducted in the hamster cheek pouch with the sufentanil sublingual 
tablets. It was concluded from these studies that sufentanil sublingual tablets have no or minimal 
potential for local irritation. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mannitol-E421 
Calcium hydrogen phosphate   
Hypromellose   
Croscarmellose sodium  
Indigo carmine -E132  
Stearic acid 
Magnesium stearate 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
4 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light and oxygen. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Dzuveo is packaged in a polypropylene single-dose applicator, which is packaged in a polyester 
film/LDPE/aluminium foil/LDPE sachet with an oxygen absorber. 
Dzuveo will be available in cartons of 5 and 10. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Instructions for use of Single Dose Applicator (SDA) 
Single-Use Product / Do Not Reuse 
Do Not Use if Pouch Seal is Broken 
Do not use if the Single Dose Applicator (SDA) is damaged 
Instruct the patient to not chew or swallow the tablet. 
Instruct the patient to not eat or drink and minimize talking for 10 minutes after receiving the tablet. 
1.  When ready to administer the medicine, tear open the slit-notched pouch across the top. The 
pouch contains one clear plastic SDA with a single blue-colored tablet housed in the tip, and an 
oxygen absorber packet. The oxygen absorber packet should be discarded. 
Contents of the pouch are shown below: 
Pusher 
Lock 
Tablet 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Remove the white Lock from the green Pusher by squeezing the sides together and detaching 
from Pusher. Discard the Lock. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
Tell the patient to touch their tongue to the roof of their mouth if possible. 
Rest the SDA lightly on the patient’s teeth or lips. 
Place the SDA tip under the tongue and aim at the floor of the patient’s mouth. 
NOTE: Avoid direct mucosal contact with the SDA tip. 
6. 
Depress the green Pusher to deliver the tablet to the patient’s sublingual space and confirm tablet 
placement. 
The single-dose applicator (SDA) must be discarded in accordance to the institutional policies and 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
local requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Laboratoire Aguettant 
1, rue Alexander Fleming 
69007 Lyon 
France 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/18/1284/001 
EU/1/18/1284/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 25 June 2018 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Laboratoire Aguettant 
1, rue Alexander Fleming 
69007 Lyon 
France 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to special and restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of 
Product Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports (PSUR) 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are  set out 
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of  Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE 
USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in  the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed  subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to the launch of Dzuveo in each Member State (MS), the Marketing Authorisation Holder 
(MAH) must agree about the content and format of the educational materials, including 
communication media, distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the 
National Competent Authority (NCA). 
The MAH shall ensure that in each MS where Dzuveo is marketed, all HCPs (i.e. physicians, hospital 
pharmacists, and nurses) who are expected to prescribe / administer the product are provided with a 
Healthcare Professional Guide, outlining critical information for the safe and effective use of Dzuveo, 
including: 
• 
• 
The method of use of the device; 
The minimum dosing interval of one sublingual tablet per hour, in order to prevent / minimise 
the important identified risk of respiratory depression and the important potential risk of 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
overdose; 
• 
• 
The key message to convey during patients counselling, about possible respiratory depression / 
overdose; 
Detailed instruction on how to handle overdose / respiratory depression 
18 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF 5 OR 10 POUCHES 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Dzuveo 30 micrograms sublingual tablets   
sufentanil 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each sublingual tablet contains 30 micrograms sufentanil (as citrate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
10 x 1sublingual tablet in a single-dose applicator.   
5 x 1 sublingual tablet in a single dose applicator. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use.   
Sublingual use 
To be used only with the single-dose applicator.   
Do not chew or swallow the tablet. 
Minimum 1 hour dosing interval. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in original package to protect from light and oxygen. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Laboratoire Aguettant 
1, rue Alexander Fleming 
69007 Lyon 
France. 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1284/001 5 x 1 tablets in single dose applicators  
EU/1/18/1284/002 10 x 1 tablets in single dose applicators 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
POUCH 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Dzuveo 30 micrograms sublingual tablet  
sufentanil 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each sublingual tablet contains 30 micrograms sufentanil (as citrate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
1 single-dose applicator containing 1 sublingual tablet. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use.   
Sublingual use 
To be used only with the single-dose applicator.   
Administer product immediately after opening pouch.   
Do not chew or swallow the tablet. 
Minimum 1 hour dosing interval. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in original package to protect from light and oxygen. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Laboratoire Aguettant 
1, rue Alexander Fleming 
69007 Lyon 
France. 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/18/1284/001   
EU/1/18/1284/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
SINGLE DOSE APPLICATOR 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Dzuveo 30 mcg sublingual tablet   
sufentanil 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6. 
OTHER 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Dzuveo 30 micrograms sublingual tablet 
sufentanil 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any  possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Dzuveo is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Dzuveo 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Dzuveo 
Possible side effects 
How to store Dzuveo 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Dzuveo is and what it is used for 
The active substance of Dzuveo is sufentanil, which belongs to a group of strong painkillers called 
opioids. 
Sufentanil is used to treat sudden moderate-to-severe pain in adults in medically monitored settings 
such as a hospital. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Dzuveo   
Do not use Dzuveo: 
- 
if you are allergic to sufentanil or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section  6). 
If you have a serious lung or breathing problem. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or nurse before using Dzuveo. Tell your doctor or nurse before treatment if you: 
- 
Are suffering from any condition that affects your breathing (such as asthma, wheezing, or 
shortness of breath). As Dzuveo may affect your breathing, your doctor or nurse will check your 
breathing during treatment; 
Have a head injury or brain tumour; 
Have problems with your heart and circulation, especially slow heart rate, irregular heartbeat, 
low  blood volume or low blood pressure; 
Have moderate to severe liver problems or severe kidney problems, as these organs have an 
effect  on the way in which your body breaks down and eliminates the medicine; have 
abnormally slow  bowel movements; 
Have a disease of the gall bladder or pancreas; 
Or anyone in your family have ever abused or been dependent on alcohol, prescription 
medicines or illegal drugs (“addiction”); 
Are a smoker; 
Have ever had problems with your mood (depression, anxiety or a personality disorder) or have 
been treated by a psychiatrist for other mental illnesses. 
This medicine contains sufentanil which is an opioid medicine. Repeated use of opioid painkillers may 
27 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
result in the drug being less effective (you become accustomed to it). It may also lead to dependence 
and abuse which may result in life-threatening overdose. If you have concern that you may become 
dependent on Dzuveo, it is important that you consult your doctor. 
Consult your doctor WHILE using Dzuveo if: 
- 
You experience pain or increased sensitivity to pain (hyperalgesia) which does not respond to a 
higher dosage of your medicine as prescribed by your doctor. 
What do you need to know before you take Dzuveo: 
Sleep-related breathing disorders 
- 
Dzuveo can cause sleep-related breathing disorders such as sleep apnoea (breathing pauses 
during sleep) and sleep related hypoxemia (low oxygen level in the blood). The symptoms can 
include breathing pauses during sleep, night awakening due to shortness of breath, difficulties to 
maintain sleep or excessive drowsiness during the day. If you or another person observe these 
symptoms, contact your doctor. A dose reduction may be considered by your doctor. 
Children and adolescents 
Dzuveo should not be used in children and adolescents below 18 years. 
Other medicines and Dzuveo 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. In particular, 
tell your doctor if you are taking any of the following: 
- 
Ketoconazole, which is used for the treatment of fungal infections this medicine may have an 
effect on the way in which your body breaks down sufentanil. 
Any  medicines  which  might  make  you  sleepy  (have  a  sedative  effect),  such  as  sleeping  pills, 
medicines to treat anxiety (e.g. benzodiazepines), tranquillisers or other opioid medicines, as  they 
can increase the risk of severe breathing problems, coma and may be life-threatening. 
Medicines  for  the  treatment  of  depression  known  as  Monoamine  Oxidase  Inhibitors  (MAOIs). 
These medicines must not be taken in the 2 weeks before or at the same time as Dzuveo is given. 
Medicines  for  the  treatment  of  depression  known  as  Selective  Serotonin  Reuptake  Inhibitors 
(SSRIs) and Serotonin Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors (SNRIs). It is not recommended to use 
these medicines at the same time as Dzuveo. 
Medicines  to  treat  epilepsy,  nerve  pain  or  anxiety  (gabapentin  and  pregabalin),  as  they  can 
increase the risk of opioid overdose, respiratory depression and may be life-threatening. 
Other medicines which are also taken sublingually (placed under the tongue where they  dissolve) 
or medicines which take effect in your mouth (e.g. nystatin, a liquid or pastilles you  hold in your 
mouth to treat fungus infections), as the effect on Dzuveo has not been studied. 
Regularly prescribed opioid medicine (e.g. morphine, codeine, fentanyl, hydromorphone, 
oxycodone). 
Medicines used to treat high blood pressure or angina (chest pain) known as calcium channel or 
beta blockers e.g. diltiazem and nifedipine. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Dzuveo with alcohol 
Do not drink alcohol while using Dzuveo. It can increase the risk of experiencing severe breathing 
problems. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. 
Dzuveo should not be used during pregnancy or in women of childbearing potential not using effective 
contraception. 
Dzuveo passes into breast milk and can cause side effects in the breast-fed child. Breastfeeding is not 
recommended while you are taking Dzuveo. 
Driving and using machines 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dzuveo affects your ability to drive or use machines as it may cause sleepiness, dizziness or visual 
disturbances. You should not drive or operate machinery if you experience any of these symptoms 
whilst or after being treated with sufentanil. You should only drive and use machines if sufficient time 
has elapsed after your last dose of Dzuveo. 
Dzuveo contains sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3.  How to use Dzuveo 
This medicine must be given to you by a doctor or a nurse using the single-dose administration device. 
You will not give yourself this medicine. 
Dzuveo is only used in a medically monitored setting, such as a hospital. It is only prescribed by a 
doctor who is experienced in the use of strong painkillers like sufentanil and knows the effects it may 
have on you, in particular on your breathing (see ‘Warnings and precautions’ above). 
The recommended dose is a maximum of one 30 microgram sublingual tablet per hour. The sublingual 
tablet will be given to you by a healthcare professional using the disposable single-dose applicator. 
The applicator will help your healthcare provider place one tablet under your tongue. The tablets 
dissolve under your tongue and should not be chewed, or swallowed because the tablet is not effective 
for pain relief unless it is allowed to dissolve under your tongue. You should not eat or drink and 
should talk as little as possible for 10 minutes after each dose. 
After receiving a dose you will not be given another dose for at least one hour. The maximum daily 
dose is 720 micrograms (24 tablets per day). 
Dzuveo should not be used beyond 48 hours. 
After your treatment the medical staff will dispose of the applicator accordingly. 
If you use more Dzuveo than you should 
The symptoms of overdose include severe breathing problems like slow and shallow breathing, loss of 
consciousness, extremely low blood pressure, collapse and muscle rigidity. If these start to develop, 
tell a doctor or nurse immediately. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Serious side effects 
The most serious side effects are severe breathing problems, like slow and shallow breathing, which 
may even lead to you stopping breathing. 
If you experience any of the above mentioned side effects, tell your doctor or nurse immediately. 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people):   
Nausea or feeling sick, vomiting or being sick and generally feeling hot. 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Inability or difficulty sleeping, feeling anxious or confused, dizziness. 
Headache, drowsiness, feeling sleepy. 
Increased heart rate, high blood pressure, low blood pressure. 
Low levels of oxygen in your blood, feeling pain in the lower throat, slow shallow breathing. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Dry mouth, flatulence (passing wind), constipation, indigestion or reflux. 
Allergic reactions, itching of the skin. 
Muscle twitching and spasms. 
Inability to pass urine. 
This medicine may also cause changes in levels of red blood cells, white blood cells, calcium, 
albumin, potassium and sodium in your blood which can only be identified through a blood test. 
If  you are having a blood test ensure your doctor knows you are taking this medicine. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Inflammation of the lungs, eye redness and inflammation, inflammation of the throat. 
Fatty lumps underneath skin. 
Inability to manage blood sugar (diabetes), increased cholesterol. 
Feeling agitated, lack of interest or emotion, lack of energy, disorientation, feeling elated, 
hallucinating or seeing things that are not there, nervousness. 
Problems coordinating muscle movements, muscle contractions, tremors or excessive shaking, 
exaggeration of reflex responses, burning sensation, feeling faint, abnormal sensation of the skin 
(tingling, skin crawling), numbness in general, tiredness, forgetfulness, migraine, tension 
headaches. 
Vision disturbances, eye pain. 
Decreased heart rate, irregular heartbeat, angina or other chest discomfort. 
High blood pressure or low blood pressure when standing up, skin flushing. 
Slow or difficult breathing (including when sleeping), Nose bleeds, hiccups. 
Chest pain and breathing difficulties caused by a blood clot in lung, fluid in the lungs, wheezing. 
Diarrhoea, burping or belching, inflammation of stomach lining or gastritis, bloating, acid reflux, 
retching, stomach pain or an uncomfortable stomach. 
Developing blisters, excessive sweating, rash, dry skin numbness of mouth or face. 
Pain in the back, chest or other body parts, pain in the extremities. 
Difficulty urinating, strong smelling urine, pain urinating, kidney failure. 
Swelling, uncomfortable sensations in your chest, chills, and weakness (lack of energy). 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
This medicine may also cause changes in levels of platelets (which help your blood to clot), 
magnesium, protein, sugar, fats, phosphates and plasma in your blood which can only be identified 
through a blood test. If you are having a blood test ensure your doctor knows you are taking this 
medicine. 
Frequency not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
- 
Severe allergic reactions (anaphylactic shock), convulsions (fits), coma, small pupil size, redness 
of the skin. 
Withdrawal syndrome which may include symptoms such as agitation, anxiety, muscle aches, 
insomnia, sweating and yawning. 
- 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5.  How to store Dzuveo 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.  Your doctor or nurse will ensure that: 
- 
this medicine is not used after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
is stored in the original package in order to protect from light and oxygen. 
this medicine is not used if there are signs of deterioration. 
- 
- 
Medicines should not be thrown away via wastewater or household waste. Your healthcare provider 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
will dispose of any waste according to hospital policies. These measures will help protect the 
environment. 
6. 
- 
- 
Contents of the pack and other information  What Dzuveo contains 
The active substance is sufentanil. Each sublingual tablet contains 30 micrograms of sufentanil 
(as citrate). 
The other ingredient(s) are mannitol (E421), dicalcium phosphate, hypromellose, croscarmellose 
sodium, Indigo Carmine (E132), stearic acid, and magnesium stearate. 
What Dzuveo looks like and contents of the pack 
Dzuveo is a blue-coloured, flat-faced sublingual tablet with round edges. It measures 3 mm in  diameter 
and is enclosed within a single-dose applicator (labelled [sublingual tablet]). The applicator,  with the 
tablet inside, is enclosed within a pouch. 
Each pouch contains one applicator and one sufentanil 30 micrograms tablet.  Each pack contains either 
5 or 10 pouches. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and manufacturer 
Laboratoire Aguettant 
1, rue Alexander Fleming 
69007 Lyon 
France 
This leaflet was last revised in. 
<------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------> 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Instructions for use of Single Dose Applicator (SDA) 
Single-Use Product / Do Not Reuse. 
Do Not Use if Pouch Seal is Broken. 
Do not use if the Single Dose Applicator (SDA) is damaged. 
Instruct the patient to not chew or swallow the tablet. 
Instruct the patient to not eat or drink and minimize talking for 10 minutes after receiving the tablet. 
1.  When ready to administer the medicine, tear open the slit-notched pouch across the top.  The 
pouch contains one clear plastic SDA with a single blue-colored tablet housed in the  tip, and an 
oxygen absorber packet. The oxygen absorber packet should be discarded. 
Contents of the pouch are shown below: 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pusher 
Lock 
Tablet 
2. 
Remove the white Lock from the green Pusher by squeezing the sides together and detaching 
from Pusher. Discard the Lock. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
Tell the patient to touch their tongue to the roof of their mouth if possible. 
Rest the SDA lightly on the patient’s teeth or lips. 
Place the SDA tip under the tongue and aim at the floor of the patient’s mouth.   
NOTE: Avoid direct mucosal contact with the SDA tip. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Depress the green Pusher to deliver the tablet to the patient’s sublingual space and confirm 
tablet placement. 
The single-dose applicator (SDA) must be discarded in accordance to the institutional policies and local 
requirements. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
