ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ebilfumin 30 mg hard capsules 
Ebilfumin 45 mg hard capsules 
Ebilfumin 75 mg hard capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Ebilfumin 30 mg hard capsules 
Each hard capsule contains oseltamivir phosphate equivalent to 30 mg of oseltamivir. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
Ebilfumin 45 mg hard capsules 
Each hard capsule contains oseltamivir phosphate equivalent to 45 mg of oseltamivir. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
Ebilfumin 75 mg hard capsules 
Each hard capsule contains oseltamivir phosphate equivalent to 75 mg of oseltamivir. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Ebilfumin 30 mg hard capsules 
The hard capsule consists of a rich yellow body and cap bearing the black imprint “OS 30”. Capsule 
size: 4 
The capsule contains a white granulated powder. 
Ebilfumin 45 mg hard capsules 
The hard capsule consists of a white opaque body and cap bearing the black imprint “OS 45”. Capsule 
size: 4 
The capsule contains a white granulated powder. 
Ebilfumin 75 mg hard capsules 
The hard capsule consists of a white opaque body and a rich yellow cap bearing the black imprint “OS 
75”. Capsule size: 2 
The capsule contains a white granulated powder. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment of influenza 
Ebilfumin is indicated in adults and children including full-term neonates who present with symptoms 
typical of influenza, when influenza virus is circulating in the community. Efficacy has been 
demonstrated when treatment is initiated within two days of first onset of symptoms.  
Prevention of influenza 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
Post-exposure prevention in individuals 1 year of age or older following contact with a 
clinically diagnosed influenza case when influenza virus is circulating in the community. 
The appropriate use of Ebilfumin for prevention of influenza should be determined on a case 
by case basis by the circumstances and the population requiring protection. In exceptional 
situations (e.g. in case of a mismatch between the circulating and vaccine virus strains, and a 
pandemic situation) seasonal prevention could be considered in individuals one year of age or 
older. 
Ebilfumin is indicated for post-exposure prevention of influenza in infants less than 1 year of 
age during a pandemic influenza outbreak (see section 5.2). 
Ebilfumin is not a substitute for influenza vaccination. 
The use of antivirals for the treatment and prevention of influenza should be determined on the basis of 
official recommendations. Decisions regarding the use of oseltamivir for treatment and prophylaxis 
should take into consideration what is known about the characteristics of the circulating influenza 
viruses, available information on influenza drug susceptibility patterns for each season and the impact 
of the disease in different geographical areas and patient populations (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Ebilfumin hard capsules are bioequivalent formulations. 75 mg doses can be administered as 
either: 
- 
- 
one 75 mg capsule or 
one 30 mg capsule plus one 45 mg capsule. 
Commercially manufactured oseltamivir powder for oral suspension (6 mg/ml) is the preferred product 
for paediatric and adult patients who have difficulties swallowing capsules or where lower doses are 
needed. 
Adults, and adolescents 13 years and over 
Treatment: The recommended oral dose is 75 mg oseltamivir twice daily for 5 days for adolescents (13 
to 17 years of age) and adults. 
Body Weight 
Recommended dose for 5 days 
> 40 kg 
75 mg twice daily 
Recommended dose for 10 days* 
Immunocompromised Patients 
75 mg twice daily 
* The recommended treatment duration in immunocompromised adults and adolescents is 10 days. See Special Populations, 
Immunocompromised Patients for more information. 
Treatment should be initiated as soon as possible within the first two days of onset of symptoms of 
influenza. 
Post-exposure prevention: The recommended dose for prevention of influenza following close contact 
with an infected individual is 75 mg oseltamivir once daily for 10 days for adolescents (13 to 17 years 
of age) and adults. 
Body Weight 
Recommended dose for 10 days 
> 40 kg 
75 mg once daily 
Recommended dose for 10 days 
Immunocompromised Patients 
75 mg once daily 
Therapy should begin as soon as possible within two days of exposure to an infected individual. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prevention during an influenza epidemic in the community: The recommended dose for prevention of 
influenza during a community outbreak is 75 mg oseltamivir once daily for up to 6 weeks (or up to 
12 weeks in immunocompromised patients, see sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1). 
Paediatric population 
Children 1 to 12 years of age 
Ebilfumin 30 mg, 45 mg and 75 mg capsules are available for infants and children 1 year of age or 
older 
Treatment: The following weight-adjusted dosing regimens are recommended for treatment of infants 
and children 1 year of age or older: 
Body Weight 
Recommended dose for 5 days 
10 kg to 15 kg 
> 15 kg to 23 kg 
> 23 kg to 40 kg 
> 40 kg 
30 mg twice daily 
45 mg twice daily 
60 mg twice daily 
75 mg twice daily 
Recommended dose for 10 days* 
Immunocompromised Patients 
30 mg twice daily 
45 mg twice daily 
60 mg twice daily 
75 mg twice daily 
*The recommended treatment duration in immunocompromised children (≥1 year old) is 10 days.  See Special 
Populations, Immunocompromised Patients for more information. 
Treatment should be initiated as soon as possible within the first two days of onset of symptoms of 
influenza. 
Post-exposure prevention: The recommended post-exposure prevention dose of Ebilfumin is: 
Body Weight 
Recommended dose for 10 days 
10 kg to 15 kg 
> 15 kg to 23 kg 
> 23 kg to 40 kg 
> 40 kg 
30 mg once daily 
45 mg once daily 
60 mg once daily 
75 mg once daily 
Recommended dose for 10 days 
For Immunocomprmised Patients 
30 mg once daily 
45 mg once daily 
60 mg once daily 
75 mg once daily 
Prevention during an influenza epidemic in the community: Prevention during an influenza epidemic 
has not been studied in children below 12 years of age. 
Infants 0 – 12 months of age 
Treatment: The recommended treatment dose for infants 0 - 12 months of age is 3 mg/kg twice daily. 
This is based upon pharmacokinetic and safety data indicating that this dose in infants 0 - 12 months 
provides plasma concentrations of the pro-drug and active metabolite that are anticipated to be 
clinically efficacious with a safety profile comparable to that seen in older children and adults (see 
section 5.2). The following dosing regimen is recommended for treatment of infants 0 - 12 months of 
age: 
Body weight* 
Recommended dose for 5 days 
3 kg 
4 kg 
5 kg 
6 kg 
7 kg 
9 mg twice daily 
12 mg twice daily 
15 mg twice daily 
18 mg twice daily 
21 mg twice daily 
4 
Recommended dose for 10 days** 
Immunocompromised Patients 
9 mg twice daily 
12 mg twice daily 
15 mg twice daily 
18 mg twice daily 
21 mg twice daily 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 kg 
9 kg 
10 kg 
24 mg twice daily 
27 mg twice daily 
30 mg twice daily 
24 mg twice daily 
27 mg twice daily 
30 mg twice daily 
* This table is not intended to contain all possible weights for this population. For all patients under the age of 1 
year, 3 mg/kg should be used to determine dose regardless of the weight of the patient. 
Treatment should be initiated as soon as possible within the first two days of onset of symptoms of 
influenza. 
** The recommended duration in immunocompromised infants (0-12 months old) is 10 days. See Special 
Populations, Immunocompromised Patients for more information. 
This dosing recommendation is not intended for premature infants, i.e. those with a post-
conceptual age less than 36 weeks. Insufficient data are available for these patients, in whom 
different dosing may be required due to the immaturity of physiological functions. 
Post-exposure prevention: The recommended prophylaxis dose for infants less than 1 year of age 
during a pandemic influenza outbreak is half of the daily treatment dose. This is based upon clinical 
data in infants and children 1 year of age or older and adults showing that a prophylaxis dose 
equivalent to half the daily treatment dose is clinically efficacious for the prevention of influenza. The 
following age-adjusted dosing prophylaxis regimen is recommended for infants 0 – 12 months of age 
(see Section 5.2 for exposure simulation): 
Age 
Recommended dose for 10 days 
0 - 12 months 
3 mg/kg once daily 
Recommended dose for 10 days 
Immunocompromised Patients 
3 mg/kg once daily 
This dosing recommendation is not intended for premature infants, i.e. those with a post-
conceptual age less than 36 weeks. Insufficient data are available for these patients, in whom 
different dosing may be required due to the immaturity of physiological functions. 
Prevention during an influenza epidemic in the community: Prevention during an influenza epidemic 
has not been studied in children 0-12 months of age. 
For instructions on preparing the extemporaneous formulation, see section 6.6.  
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required either for treatment or for prevention in patients with hepatic 
dysfunction. No studies have been carried out in paediatric patients with hepatic disorder. 
Renal impairment 
Treatment of influenza: Dose adjustment is recommended for adults and adolescents (13 to 17 years of 
age) with moderate or severe renal impairment. Recommended doses are detailed in the table below. 
Creatinine clearance 
> 60 (ml/min) 
> 30 to 60 (ml/min) 
> 10 to 30 (ml/min) 
≤ 10 (ml/min) 
Haemodialysis patients 
Peritoneal dialysis patients* 
Recommended dose for treatment 
75 mg twice daily 
30 mg twice daily 
30 mg once daily 
Not recommended (no data available) 
30 mg after each haemodialysis session 
30 mg single dose 
*Data derived from studies in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients; the clearance of 
oseltamivir carboxylate is expected to be higher when automated peritoneal dialysis (APD) mode is used. 
Treatment mode can be switched from APD to CAPD if considered necessary by a nephrologist. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prevention of influenza: Dose adjustment is recommended for adults and adolescents (13 to 17 years 
of age) with moderate or severe renal impairment as detailed in the table below. 
Creatinine clearance 
> 60 (ml/min) 
> 30 to 60 (ml/min) 
> 10 to 30 (ml/min) 
≤ 10 (ml/min) 
Haemodialysis patients 
Peritoneal dialysis patients* 
Recommended dose for prevention 
75 mg once daily 
30 mg once daily 
30 mg every second day 
Not recommended (no data available) 
30 mg after every second haemodialysis session 
30 mg once weekly 
*Data derived from studies in continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) patients; the clearance of 
oseltamivir carboxylate is expected to be higher when automated peritoneal dialysis (APD) mode is used. 
Treatment mode can be switched from APD to CAPD if considered necessary by a nephrologist. 
There is insufficient clinical data available in infants and children (12 years of age and younger) with 
renal impairment to be able to make any dosing recommendation. 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required, unless there is evidence of moderate or severe renal impairment. 
Immunocompromised patients 
Treatment: For treatment of influenza, the recommended duration for immunocompromised 
patients is 10 days (see sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1). No dose adjustment is necessary. Treatment 
should be initiated as soon as possible within the first two days of onset of symptoms of influenza.  
Seasonal prophylaxis: Longer duration of seasonal prophylaxis up to 12 weeks has been evaluated 
in immunocompromised patients (see sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.1). 
Method of administration 
Oral use. 
Patients who are unable to swallow capsules may receive appropriate doses of an oseltamivir 
suspension.. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Oseltamivir is effective only against illness caused by influenza viruses. There is no evidence for 
efficacy of oseltamivir in any illness caused by agents other than influenza viruses (see section 5.1). 
Oseltamivir is not a substitute for influenza vaccination 
Use of oseltamivir must not affect the evaluation of individuals for annual influenza vaccination. The 
protection against influenza lasts only as long as oseltamivir is administered. Oseltamivir should be 
used for the treatment and prevention of influenza only when reliable epidemiological data indicate 
that influenza virus is circulating in the community. Susceptibility of circulating influenza virus strains 
to oseltamivir has been shown to be highly variable (see section 5.1). Therefore, prescribers should 
take into account the most recent information available on oseltamivir susceptibility patterns of the 
currently circulating viruses when deciding whether to use oseltamivir. 
Severe concomitant condition 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No information is available regarding the safety and efficacy of oseltamivir in patients with any 
medical condition sufficiently severe or unstable to be considered at imminent risk of requiring 
hospitalisation. 
Immunocompromised patients 
The efficacy of oseltamivir in either treatment or prophylaxis of influenza in immunocompromised 
patients has not been firmly established (see section 5.1). 
Cardiac / respiratory disease 
Efficacy of oseltamivir in the treatment of subjects with chronic cardiac disease and/or respiratory 
disease has not been established. No difference in the incidence of complications was observed 
between the treatment and placebo groups in this population (see section 5.1). 
Paediatric population 
No data allowing a dose recommendation for premature children (< 36 weeks post-conceptual age) are 
currently available. 
Severe renal impairment 
Dose adjustment is recommended for both treatment and prevention in adolescents (13 to 17 years of 
age) and adults with severe renal impairment. There is insufficient clinical data available in infants and 
children (1 year of age or older) with renal impairment to be able to make any dosing recommendation 
(see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Neuropsychiatric events 
Neuropsychiatric events have been reported during administration of oseltamivir in patients with 
influenza, especially in children and adolescents. These events are also experienced by patients with 
influenza without oseltamivir administration. Patients should be closely monitored for behavioural 
changes, and the benefits and risks of continuing treatment should be carefully evaluated for each 
patient (see section 4.8). 
Excipient 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Pharmacokinetic properties of oseltamivir, such as low protein binding and metabolism independent of 
the CYP450 and glucuronidase systems (see section 5.2), suggest that clinically significant drug 
interactions via these mechanisms are unlikely. 
Probenecid 
No dose adjustment is required when co-administering with probenecid in patients with normal renal 
function. Co-administration of probenecid, a potent inhibitor of the anionic pathway of renal tubular 
secretion, results in an approximate 2-fold increase in exposure to the active metabolite of oseltamivir. 
Amoxicillin 
Oseltamivir has no kinetic interaction with amoxicillin, which is eliminated via the same pathway, 
suggesting that oseltamivir interaction with this pathway is weak. 
Renal elimination 
Clinically important drug interactions involving competition for renal tubular secretion are unlikely, 
due to the known safety margin for most of these substances, the elimination characteristics of the 
active metabolite (glomerular filtration and anionic tubular secretion) and the excretion capacity of 
these pathways. However, care should be taken when prescribing oseltamivir in subjects when taking 
co-excreted agents with a narrow therapeutic margin (e.g. chlorpropamide, methotrexate, 
phenylbutazone). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Additional information 
No pharmacokinetic interactions between oseltamivir or its major metabolite have been observed 
when co-administering oseltamivir with paracetamol, acetylsalicylic acid, cimetidine, antacids 
(magnesium and aluminium hydroxides and calcium carbonates), rimantadine or warfarin (in subjects 
stable on warfarin and without influenza). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Influenza is associated with adverse pregnancy and foetal outcomes, with a risk of major congenital 
malformations, including congenital heart defects. A large amount of data on oseltamivir exposure of 
pregnant women from post-marketing reports and observational studies (more than 1000 exposed 
outcomes during the first trimester) indicate no malformative nor feto/neonatal toxicity by 
oseltamivir.  
However, in one observational study, while the overall malformation risk was not increased, the 
results for major congenital heart defects diagnosed within 12 months of birth were not conclusive. In 
this study, the rate of major congenital heart defects following oseltamivir exposure during the first 
trimester was 1.76% (7 infants out of 397 pregnancies) compared to 1.01% in unexposed pregnancies 
from the general population (Odds Ratio 1.75, 95% Confidence Interval 0.51 to 5.98). The clinical 
significance of this finding is not clear, as the study had limited power. Additionally, this study was 
too small to reliably assess individual types of major malformations; moreover women exposed to 
oseltamivir and women unexposed could not be made fully comparable, in particular whether or not 
they had influenza. 
Animal studies do not indicate reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
The use of oseltamivir may be considered during pregnancy if necessary and after considering the 
available safety and benefit information (for data on benefit in pregnant women please refer to section 
5.1 “treatment of influenza in pregnant women”), and the pathogenicity of the circulating influenza 
virus strain. 
Breastfeeding 
In lactating rats, oseltamivir and the active metabolite are excreted in milk. Very limited information is 
available on children breast-fed by mothers taking oseltamivir and on excretion of oseltamivir in breast 
milk. Limited data demonstrated that oseltamivir and the active metabolite were detected in breast 
milk, however the levels were low, which would result in a subtherapeutic dose to the infant. 
Considering this information, the pathogenicity of the circulating influenza virus strain and the 
underlying condition of the breastfeeding woman, administration of oseltamivir may be considered, 
where there are clear potential benefits to breastfeeding mothers. 
Fertility 
Based on preclinical data, there is no evidence that oseltamivir has an effect on male or female fertility 
(see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Oseltamivir has no influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The overall safety profile of oseltamivir is based on data from 6049 adult/adolescent and 1473 
paediatric patients treated with oseltamivir or placebo for influenza, and on data from 3990 
adult/adolescent and 253 paediatric patients receiving oseltamivir or placebo/no treatment for the 
prophylaxis of influenza in clinical trials. In addition, 245 immunocompromised patients (including 7 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adolescents and 39 children) received oseltamivir for the treatment of influenza and 475 
immunocompromised patients (including 18 children, of these 10 oseltamivir and 8 placebo) received 
oseltamivir or placebo for the prophylaxis of influenza. 
In adults/adolescents, the most commonly reported adverse reactions (ARs) were nausea and vomiting 
in the treatment studies, and nausea in the prevention studies. The majority of these ARs were reported 
on a single occasion on either the first or second treatment day and resolved spontaneously within 1-2 
days. In children, the most commonly reported adverse reaction was vomiting. In the majority of 
patients, these ARs did not lead to discontinuation of oseltamivir. 
The following serious adverse reactions have been rarely reported since oseltamivir has been 
marketed: Anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions, hepatic disorders (fulminant hepatitis, 
hepatic function disorder and jaundice), angioneurotic oedema, Stevens-Johnson syndrome and 
toxic epidermal necrolysis, gastrointestinal bleeding and neuropsychiatric disorders. 
(Regarding neuropsychiatric disorders, see section 4.4.) 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The ARs listed in the tables below fall into the following categories: Very common (≥ 1/10), common 
(≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), and very rare 
(< 1/10,000). ARs are added to the appropriate category in the tables according to the pooled 
analysis from clinical studies. 
Treatment and prevention of influenza in adults and adolescents: 
In adult/adolescent treatment and prevention studies, ARs that occurred the most frequently at 
the recommended dose (75  mg bid for 5  days for treatment and 75  mg od for up to 6  weeks 
for prophylaxis) are shown in Table 1. 
The safety profile reported in subjects who received the recommended dose of oseltamivir for 
prophylaxis (75 mg once daily for up to 6 weeks) was qualitatively similar to that seen in the 
treatment studies, despite a longer duration of dosing in the prophylaxis studies. 
Table 1 
Adverse reactions in studies investigating oseltamivir for treatment and 
prevention of influenza in adults and adolescents or through post-marketing 
surveillance 
System Organ 
Class (SOC) 
Infections and 
infestations 
Very common 
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Rare 
Uncommon 
Adverse reactions according to frequency 
Common 
Bronchitis, 
Herpes simplex, 
Nasopharyngitis, 
Upper respiratory 
tract infections, 
Sinusitis 
Thrombocytopenia 
Hypersensitivity 
reaction 
Anaphylactic 
reactions, 
Anaphylactoid 
reactions 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Eye disorders 
Cardiac 
disorders 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Agitation,Abnormal 
behaviour, 
Anxiety,Confusion, 
Delusions, Delirium, 
Hallucination, 
Nightmares,Self-
injury 
Headache 
Insomnia 
Altered level 
of 
consciousness, 
Cardiac arrhythmia  
Visual disturbance 
Nausea 
Cough, 
Sore throat, 
Rhinorrhea 
Vomiting 
Abdominal pain 
(incl. upper 
abdominal pain), 
Dyspepsia 
Pain 
Dizziness (incl. 
vertigo), 
Fatigue, 
Pyrexia , 
Pain in limb 
Elevated liver 
enzymes 
Eczema, 
Dermatitis, Rash, 
Urticaria 
Gastrointestinal 
bleedings, 
Haemorrhagic 
colitis 
Fulminant 
hepatitis, 
Hepatic failure, 
Angioneurotic 
oedema, 
Erythema 
multiforme, 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, Toxic 
epidermal 
necrolysis 
Treatment and prevention of influenza in children: 
A total of 1473 children (including otherwise healthy children aged 1-12 years old and asthmatic 
children aged 6-12 years old) participated in clinical studies of oseltamivir given for the treatment 
of influenza. Of those, 851 children received treatment with oseltamivir suspension. A total of 158 
children received the recommended dose of oseltamivir once daily in a post-exposure prophylaxis 
study in households (n = 99), a 6-week paediatric seasonal prophylaxis study (n = 49) and a 12-
week paediatric seasonal prophylaxis study in immunocompromised subjects (n = 10). 
Table 2 shows the most frequently reported ARs from paediatric clinical trials. 
Table 2 
Adverse reactions in studies investigating oseltamivir for treatment and 
prevention of influenza in children (age/weight-based dosing [30 mg to 75 mg 
o.d.]) 
System Organ 
Class (SOC) 
Adverse reactions according to frequency 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Otitis media, 
Headache 
Conjunctivitis 
(including red 
eyes, eye 
discharge and eye 
pain) 
Earache 
Cough, 
Nasal congestion 
Rhinorrhoea 
Vomiting 
Abdominal pain 
(incl. upper 
abdominal pain), 
Dyspepsia, 
Nausea 
Infections and 
infestations 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Eye disorders: 
Ear and 
labyrinth 
disorders: 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Tympanic membrane 
disorder 
Dermatitis 
(including allergic 
and atopic 
dermatitis) 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Psychiatric disorders and nervous system disorders 
Influenza can be associated with a variety of neurologic and behavioural symptoms which can 
include events such as hallucinations, delirium, and abnormal behaviour, in some cases resulting in 
fatal outcomes. These events may occur in the setting of encephalitis or encephalopathy but can occur 
without obvious severe disease. 
In patients with influenza who were receiving oseltamivir, there have been postmarketing reports of 
convulsions and delirium (including symptoms such as altered level of consciousness, confusion, 
abnormal behaviour, delusions, hallucinations, agitation, anxiety, nightmares), in a very few cases 
resulting in self-injury or fatal outcomes. These events were reported primarily among paediatric and 
adolescent patients and often had an abrupt onset and rapid resolution. The contribution of 
oseltamivir to those events is unknown. Such neuropsychiatric events have also been reported in 
patients with influenza who were not taking oseltamivir. 
Hepato-biliary disorders 
Hepato-biliary system disorders, including hepatitis and elevated liver enzymes in patients 
with influenza-like illness. These cases include fatal fulminant hepatitis/hepatic failure. 
Other special populations 
Paediatric population (infants less than one year of age) 
In  two  studies  to  characterise  the  pharmacokinetics,  pharmacodynamics  and  safety  profile  of 
oseltamivir therapy in 135 influenza infected children less than one year of age, the safety profile was 
similar  among  age  cohorts  with  vomiting,  diarrohea  and  diaper  rash  being  the  most  frequently 
reported adverse events (see section 5.2). Insufficient data are available for infants who have a post-
conceptual age of less than 36 weeks. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety information available on oseltamivir administered for treatment of influenza in infants less 
than one year of age from prospective and retrospective observational studies (comprising together 
more than 2,400 infants of that age class), epidemiological databases research and postmarketing 
reports suggest that the safety profile in infants less than one year of age is similar to the established 
safety profile of children aged one year and older. 
Older people and patients with chronic cardiac and/or respiratory disease 
The population included in the influenza treatment studies is comprised of otherwise healthy 
adults/adolescents and patients “at risk” (patients at higher risk of developing complications associated 
with influenza, e.g. older people and patients with chronic cardiac or respiratory disease). In general, 
the safety profile in the patients “at risk” was qualitatively similar to that in otherwise healthy 
adults/adolescents. 
Immunocompromised patients 
The treatment of influenza in immunocompromised patients were evaluated in two studies receiving 
standard dose or high dose regimens (double dose or triple dose) of oseltamivir (see section 5.1). The 
safety profile of oseltamivir observed in these studies was consistent with that observed in previous 
clinical trials where oseltamivir was administered for treatment of influenza in non-
immunocompromised patients across all age groups (otherwise healthy patients or “at risk” patients 
[i.e., those with respiratory and/or cardiac co-morbidities]). The most frequent adverse reaction 
reported in immunocompromised children was vomiting (28%).  
In a 12-week prophylaxis study in 475 immunocompromised patients, including 18 children 1 to 12 
years of age and older, the safety profile in the 238 patients who received oseltamivir was consistent 
with that previously observed in oseltamivir prophylaxis clinical studies. 
Children with pre-existing bronchial asthma 
In general, the adverse reaction profile in children with pre-existing bronchial asthma was qualitatively 
similar to that of otherwise healthy children. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Reports of overdoses with oseltamivir have been received from clinical trials and during post-
marketing experience. In the majority of cases reporting overdose, no adverse events were reported. 
Adverse events reported following overdose were similar in nature and distribution to those observed 
with therapeutic doses of oseltamivir, described in section 4.8 Undesirable effects. 
No specific antidote is known.  
Paediatric population 
Overdose has been reported more frequently for children than adults and adolescents. Caution should 
be exercised when preparing oseltamivir oral suspension and when administering oseltamivir products 
to children. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antivirals for systemic use, neuraminidase inhibitors, ATC 
code: J05AH02 
Oseltamivir phosphate is a pro-drug of the active metabolite (oseltamivir carboxylate). The active 
metabolite is a selective inhibitor of influenza virus neuraminidase enzymes, which are glycoproteins 
found on the virion surface. Viral neuraminidase enzyme activity is important both for viral entry into 
uninfected cells and for the release of recently formed virus particles from infected cells, and for the 
further spread of infectious virus in the body. 
Oseltamivir carboxylate inhibits influenza A and B neuraminidases in vitro. Oseltamivir phosphate 
inhibits influenza virus infection and replication in vitro. Oseltamivir given orally inhibits influenza A 
and B virus replication and pathogenicity in vivo in animal models of influenza infection at antiviral 
exposures similar to that achieved in man with 75 mg twice daily. 
Antiviral activity of oseltamivir was supported for influenza A and B by experimental challenge 
studies in healthy volunteers. 
Neuraminidase enzyme IC50 values for oseltamivir for clinically isolated influenza A ranged from 
0.1 nM to 1.3 nM, and for influenza B was 2.6 nM. Higher IC50 values for influenza B, up to a median 
of 8.5 nM, have been observed in published studies. 
Clinical studies 
Treatment of influenza infection 
The indication is based on clinical studies of naturally occurring influenza in which the predominant 
infection was influenza A. 
Oseltamivir is effective only against illnesses caused by influenza virus. Statistical analyses are 
therefore presented only for influenza-infected subjects. In the pooled treatment study population, 
which included both influenza-positive and -negative subjects (ITT), primary efficacy was reduced 
proportionally to the number of influenza-negative individuals. In the overall treatment population, 
influenza infection was confirmed in 67 % (range 46 % to 74 %) of the recruited patients. Of the 
older subjects, 64 % were influenza-positive and of those with chronic cardiac and/or respiratory 
disease 62 % were influenza-positive. In all phase III treatment studies, patients were recruited 
only during the period in which influenza was circulating in the local community. 
Adults and adolescents 13 years of age and older: Patients were eligible if they reported within 36 
hours of onset of symptoms, had fever ≥ 37.8 °C, accompanied by at least one respiratory symptom 
(cough, nasal symptoms or sore throat) and at least one systemic symptom (myalgia, chills/sweats, 
malaise, fatigue or headache). In a pooled analysis of all influenza-positive adults and adolescents (N = 
2,413) enrolled into treatment studies, oseltamivir 75 mg twice daily for 5 days reduced the median 
duration of influenza illness by approximately one day from 5.2 days (95 % CI 4.9 – 5.5 days) in the 
placebo group to 4.2 days (95 % CI 4.0 – 4.4 days; p ≤ 0.0001). 
The proportion of subjects who developed specified lower respiratory tract complications (mainly 
bronchitis) treated with antibiotics was reduced from 12.7 % (135/1,063) in the placebo group to 
8.6 % (116/1,350) in the oseltamivir treated population (p = 0.0012). 
Treatment of influenza in high risk populations: The median duration of influenza illness in older 
subjects (≥ 65 years) and in subjects with chronic cardiac and/or respiratory disease receiving 
oseltamivir 75 mg twice daily for 5 days was not reduced significantly. The total duration of fever was 
reduced by one day in the groups treated with oseltamivir. In influenza-positive older people, 
oseltamivir significantly reduced the incidence of specified lower respiratory tract complications 
(mainly bronchitis) treated with antibiotics from 19 % (52/268) in the placebo group to 12 % (29/250) 
in the oseltamivir treated population (p = 0.0156). 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In influenza-positive patients with chronic cardiac and/or respiratory disease, the combined incidence 
of lower respiratory tract complications (mainly bronchitis) treated with antibiotics was 17 % (22/133) 
in the placebo group and 14 % (16/118) in the oseltamivir treated population (p = 0.5976). 
Treatment of influenza in pregnant women: No controlled clinical studies have been conducted on the 
use of oseltamivir in pregnant women, however, there is evidence from post-marketing and 
retrospective observational studies showing benefit of the current dosing regimen in this patient 
population in terms of lower morbidity/mortality. Results from pharmacokinetic analyses indicate a 
lower exposure to the active metabolite, however dose adjustments are not recommended for pregnant 
women in the treatment or prophylaxis of influenza (see section 5.2, Pharmacokinetics, Special 
Population). 
Treatment of influenza in children: In a study of otherwise healthy children (65 % influenza-positive) 
aged 1 to 12 years (mean age 5.3 years) who had fever (≥ 37.8 °C) plus either cough or coryza, 67 % 
of influenza-positive patients were infected with influenza A and 33 % with influenza B. Oseltamivir 
treatment, started within 48 hours of onset of symptoms, significantly reduced the time to freedom 
from illness (defined as the simultaneous return to normal health and activity and alleviation of fever, 
cough and coryza) by 1.5 days (95 % CI 0.6 – 2.2 days; p < 0.0001) compared to placebo. Oseltamivir 
reduced the incidence of acute otitis media from 26.5 % (53/200) in the placebo group to 16 % 
(29/183) in the oseltamivir treated children (p = 0.013). 
A second study was completed in 334 asthmatic children aged 6 to 12 years old of which 53.6 % were 
influenza-positive. In the oseltamivir treated group, the median duration of illness was not reduced 
significantly. By day 6 (the last day of treatment) FEV1 had increased by 10.8 % in the oseltamivir 
treated group compared to 4.7 % on placebo (p = 0.0148) in this population. 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
oseltamivir in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in influenza. See section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use. 
The indication in infants below the age of 1 is based upon extrapolation of efficacy data from 
older children and the recommended posology is based upon pharmacokinetic modelling data 
(see Section 5.2). 
Treatment of influenza B infection: Overall, 15 % of the influenza-positive population were infected by 
influenza B, proportions ranging from 1 to 33 % in individual studies. The median duration of illness 
in influenza B infected subjects did not differ significantly between the treatment groups in individual 
studies. Data from 504 influenza B infected subjects were pooled across all studies for analysis. 
Oseltamivir reduced the time to alleviation of all symptoms by 0.7 days (95 % CI 0.1 – 1.6 days; p = 
0.022) and the duration of fever (≥ 37.8 °C), cough and coryza by one day (95 % CI 0.4 – 1.7 days; p < 
0.001) compared to placebo. 
Treatment of influenza in immunocompromised patients: A randomized, double blind study, to 
evaluate safety and characterize the effects of oseltamivir on the development of resistant influenza 
virus (primary analysis) in influenza-infected immunocompromised patients, included 151 adult 
patients, 7 adolescents and 9 children evaluable for efficacy of oseltamivir (secondary analysis, not 
powered). The study included solid organ transplant [SOT] patients, haematopoietic stem cell 
transplant [HSCT] patients, HIV positive patients with a CD4+ cell count <500 cells/mm3, patients on 
systemic immunosuppressive therapy, and those with haematological malignancy. These patients were 
randomized to be treated, within 96 hours of symptoms onset, for a duration of 10 days. The treatment 
regimens were: standard dose (75 mg or weight adjusted dose for children) twice daily (73 adult 
patients, 4 adolescent patients and 4 children) or double dose (150 mg or weight-adjusted dose for 
children) twice daily (78 adult patients, 3 adolescent patients and 5 children) of oseltamivir.  
The median time to resolution of symptoms (TTRS) for adults and adolescents was similar between 
the standard dose group (103.4 hours [95% CI 75.4-122.7]) and double dose group (107.2 hours [95% 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CI 63.9-140.0]). The TTRS for children was variable and the interpretation is limited by the small 
sample size. The proportion of adult patients with secondary infections in the standard dose group and 
double dose group was comparable (8.2% vs 5.1%). For adolescents and children, only one patient (an 
adolescent) in the standard dose group experienced a secondary infection (bacterial sinusitis). 
A pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics study was conducted in severely immunocompromised 
children (≤12 years of age, n=30) receiving standard (75 mg or weight adjusted twice daily) vs. triple 
dose (225 mg or weight adjusted twice daily) oseltamivir for an adaptive dosing period of 5 to 20 days 
dependant on duration of viral shedding (mean treatment duration: 9 days). No patients in the standard 
dose group and 2 patients in the triple dose group reported secondary bacterial infections (bronchitis 
and sinusitis). 
Prevention of influenza 
The efficacy of oseltamivir in preventing naturally occurring influenza illness has been demonstrated 
in a post-exposure prevention study in households and two seasonal prevention studies. The primary 
efficacy parameter for all of these studies was the incidence of laboratory-confirmed influenza. The 
virulence of influenza epidemics is not predictable and varies within a region and from season to 
season, therefore the number needed to treat (NNT) in order to prevent one case of influenza illness 
varies. 
Post-exposure prevention: In a study in contacts (12.6 % vaccinated against influenza) of an index 
case of influenza, oseltamivir 75 mg once daily was started within 2 days of onset of symptoms in the 
index case and continued for seven days. Influenza was confirmed in 163 out of 377 index cases. 
Oseltamivir significantly reduced the incidence of clinical influenza illness occurring in the contacts of 
confirmed influenza cases from 24/200 (12 %) in the placebo group to 2/205 (1 %) in the oseltamivir 
group (92 % reduction [95 % CI 6 – 16; p ≤ 0.0001]). The number needed to treat (NNT) in contacts 
of true influenza cases was 10 (95 % CI 9 – 12) and was 16 (95 % CI 15 – 19) in the whole population 
(ITT) regardless of infection status in the index case. 
The efficacy of oseltamivir in preventing naturally occurring influenza illness has been demonstrated 
in a post-exposure prevention study in households that included adults, adolescents, and children aged 
1 to 12 years, both as index cases and as family contacts. The primary efficacy parameter for this 
study was the incidence of laboratory-confirmed clinical influenza in the households. Oseltamivir 
prophylaxis lasted for 10 days. In the total population, there was a reduction in the incidence of 
laboratory-confirmed clinical influenza in households from 20 % (27 / 136) in the group not receiving 
prevention to 7 % (10 / 135) in the group receiving prevention (62.7 % reduction [95 % CI 26.0 – 
81.2; p = 0.0042]). In households of influenza-infected index cases, there was a reduction in the 
incidence of influenza from 26 % (23 / 89) in the group not receiving prevention to 11 % (9 / 84) in 
the group receiving prevention (58.5 % reduction [95 % CI 15.6 – 79.6; p = 0.0114]). According to 
subgroup analysis in children at 1 to 12 years of age, the incidence of laboratory-confirmed clinical 
influenza among children was significantly reduced from 19 % (21 / 111) in the group not receiving 
prevention to 7 % (7 / 104) in the group receiving prevention (64.4 % reduction [95 % CI 15.8 – 85.0; 
p = 0.0188]). Among children who were not already shedding virus at baseline, the incidence of 
laboratory-confirmed clinical influenza was reduced from 21 % (15 / 70) in the group not receiving 
prevention to 4 % (2 / 47) in the group receiving prevention (80.1 % reduction [95 % CI 22.0 – 94.9; 
p = 0.0206]). The NNT for the total paediatric population was 9 (95 % CI 7 – 24) and 8 (95 % CI 6, 
upper limit not estimable) in the whole population (ITT) and in paediatric contacts of infected index 
cases (ITTII), respectively. 
Post-exposure prevention of influenza in infants less than 1 year of age during a pandemic: 
Prevention during an influenza pandemic has not been studied in controlled clinical studies in 
children 0-12 months of age. See Section 5.2 for exposure simulation details. 
Prevention during an influenza epidemic in the community: In a pooled analysis of two other studies 
conducted in unvaccinated otherwise healthy adults, oseltamivir 75 mg once daily given for 6 weeks 
significantly reduced the incidence of clinical influenza illness from 25 /519 (4.8 %) in the placebo 
group to 6/520 (1.2 %) in the oseltamivir group (76 % reduction [95 % CI 1.6 – 5.7; p = 0.0006]) 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
during a community outbreak of influenza. The NNT in this study was 28 (95 % CI 24 – 50). A 
study in older people in nursing homes, where 80 % of participants received vaccine in the season 
of the study, oseltamivir 75 mg once daily given for 6 weeks significantly reduced the incidence of 
clinical influenza illness from 12/272 (4.4 %) in the placebo group to 1/276 (0.4 %) in the 
oseltamivir group (92 % reduction [95 % CI 1.5 – 6.6; p = 0.0015]). The NNT in this study was 25 
(95 % CI 23 – 62). 
Prophylaxis of influenza in immunocompromised patients: A double-blind, placebo-controlled, 
randomised study was conducted for seasonal prophylaxis of influenza in 475 immunocompromised 
patients (388 patients with solid organ transplantation [195 placebo; 193 oseltamivir], 87 patients with 
haemopoetic stem cell transplantation [43 placebo; 44 oseltamivir], no patient with other 
immunosuppressant conditions), including 18 children 1 to 12 years of age. The primary endpoint in 
this study was the incidence of laboratory-confirmed clinical influenza as determined by viral culture 
and/or a four-fold rise in HAI antibodies. The incidence of laboratory-confirmed clinical influenza was 
2.9 % (7/238) in the placebo group and 2.1 % (5/237) in the oseltamivir group (95 % CI -2.3 % – 
4.1 %; p = 0.772). 
Specific studies have not been conducted to assess the reduction in the risk of complications. 
Oseltamivir resistance 
Clinical studies: The risk of emergence of influenza viruses with reduced susceptibility or frank 
resistance to oseltamivir has been examined during Roche-sponsored clinical studies. Developing 
oseltamivir-resistant virus during treatment was more frequent in children than adults, ranging from 
less than 1% in adults to 18% in infants aged below 1 year. Children who were found to carry 
oseltamivir-resistant virus in general shed the virus for a prolonged period compared with subjects 
with susceptible virus. However treatment-emergent resistance to oseltamivir did not affect treatment 
response and caused no prolongation of influenza symptoms. 
An overall higher incidence of oseltamivir-resistance was observed in adult and adolescent 
immunocompromised patients treated with standard dose or double dose of oseltamivir for a duration 
of 10 days [14.5% (10/69) in standard dose group and 2.7% (2/74) in double dose group], compared to 
data from studies with oseltamivir-treated otherwise healthy adult and adolescent patients. The 
majority of adult patients that developed resistance were transplant recipients (8/10 patients in the 
standard dose group and 2/2 patients in the double dose group). Most of the patients with oseltamivir-
resistant virus were infected with influenza type A and had prolonged viral shedding. 
The incidence of oseltamivir-resistance observed in immunocompromised children (≤12 years of age) 
treated with oseltamivir across the two studies and evaluated for resistance was 20.7% (6/29). Of the 
six immunocompromised children found with treatment-emergent resistance to oseltamivir, 3 patients 
received standard dose and 3 patients high dose (double or triple dose). The majority had acute 
lymphoid leukemia and were ≤ 5 years of age.  
Incidence of Oseltamivir Resistance in Clinical Studies 
Patient Population 
Patients with Resistance Mutations (%) 
Adults and adolescents 
Phenotyping* 
0.88% (21/2382) 
Geno- and Phenotyping* 
1.13% (27/2396) 
Children (1-12 years) 
4.11% (71/1726) 
4.52% (78/1727) 
Infants (<1year) 
18.31% (13/71) 
* Full genotyping was not performed in all studies. 
18.31% (13/71) 
Prophylaxis of Influenza 
There has been no evidence for emergence of drug resistance associated with the use of oseltamivir in 
clinical studies conducted to date in post-exposure (7 days), post-exposure within household groups 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(10 days) and seasonal (42 days) prevention of influenza in immunocompetent patients. There was no 
resistance observed during a 12-week prophylaxis study in immunocompromised patients. 
Clinical and surveillance data: Natural mutations associated with reduced susceptibility to oseltamivir 
in vitro have been detected in influenza A and B viruses isolated from patients without exposure to 
oseltamivir. Resistant strains selected during oseltamivir treatment have been isolated from both 
immunocompetent and immunocompromised patients. Immunocompromised patients and young 
children are at a higher risk of developing oseltamivir-resistant virus during treatment. 
Oseltamivir-resistant viruses isolated from oseltamivir-treated patients and oseltamivir-resistant 
laboratory strains of influenza viruses have been found to contain mutations in N1 and N2 
neuraminidases. Resistance mutations tend to be viral sub-type specific. Since 2007 naturally occurring 
resistance associated with the H275Y mutation in seasonal H1N1 strains has been sporadically detected. 
The susceptibility to oseltamivir and the prevalence of such viruses appear to vary seasonally and 
geographically. In 2008, H275Y was found in > 99 % of circulating H1N1 influenza isolates in Europe. 
The 2009 H1N1 influenza (“swine flu”) was almost uniformly susceptible to oseltamivir, with only 
sporadic reports of resistance in connection with both therapeutic and prophylactic regimens. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
General Information 
Absorption 
Oseltamivir is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract after oral administration of oseltamivir 
phosphate (pro-drug) and is extensively converted by predominantly hepatic esterases to the active 
metabolite (oseltamivir carboxylate). At least 75 % of an oral dose reaches the systemic circulation 
as the active metabolite. Exposure to the pro-drug is less than 5 % relative to the active metabolite. 
Plasma concentrations of both pro-drug and active metabolite are proportional to dose and are 
unaffected by co-administration with food. 
Distribution 
The mean volume of distribution at steady state of the oseltamivir carboxylate is approximately 23 
litres in humans, a volume equivalent to extracellular body fluid. Since neuraminidase activity is 
extracellular, oseltamivir carboxylate distributes to all sites of influenza virus spread. 
The binding of the oseltamivir carboxylate to human plasma protein is negligible (approximately 3 %). 
Biotransformation 
Oseltamivir is extensively converted to oseltamivir carboxylate by esterases located predominantly in 
the liver. In vitro studies demonstrated that neither oseltamivir nor the active metabolite is a substrate 
for, or an inhibitor of, the major cytochrome P450 isoforms. No phase 2 conjugates of either 
compound have been identified in vivo. 
Elimination 
Absorbed oseltamivir is primarily (> 90 %) eliminated by conversion to oseltamivir carboxylate. It is 
not further metabolised and is eliminated in the urine. Peak plasma concentrations of oseltamivir 
carboxylate decline with a half-life of 6 to 10 hours in most subjects. The active metabolite is 
eliminated entirely by renal excretion. Renal clearance (18.8 l/h) exceeds glomerular filtration rate 
(7.5 l/h) indicating that tubular secretion occurs in addition to glomerular filtration. Less than 20 % of 
an oral radiolabelled dose is eliminated in faeces. 
Other special populations 
Paediatric population 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infants less than 1 year of age: The pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and safety of oseltamivir 
have been evaluated in two uncontrolled open-label studies including influenza infected children less 
than one year of age (n=135). The rate of clearance of the active metabolite, corrected for body-
weight, decreases with ages below one year. Metabolite exposures are also more variable in the 
youngest infants. The available data indicates that the exposure following a 3 mg/kg dose in infants 0 - 
12 months of age provides pro-drug and metabolite exposures anticipated to be efficacious with a 
safety profile comparable to that seen in older children and adults using the approved dose (see 
sections 4.1 and 4.2). The reported adverse events were consistent with the established safety profile in 
older children. 
There are no data available for infants below 1 year of age for post exposure prevention of influenza. 
Prevention during an influenza epidemic in the community has not been studied in children below 12 
years of age. 
Post-exposure prevention of influenza in infants less than 1 year of age during a pandemic: 
Simulation of once daily dosing of 3mg/kg in infants <1 year shows an exposure in the same range or 
higher than for once daily dosing of 75 mg in adults. Exposure does not exceed that for treatment of 
infants < 1 year (3 mg/kg twice daily) and is anticipated to result in a comparable safety profile (see 
Section 4.8). No clinical studies of prophylaxis in infants aged <1 have been performed.  
Infants and children 1 year of age or older: The pharmacokinetics of oseltamivir have been evaluated 
in single-dose pharmacokinetic studies in infants, children and adolescents 1 to 16 years of age. 
Multiple-dose pharmacokinetics were studied in a small number of children enrolled in a clinical 
efficacy study. Younger children cleared both the pro-drug and its active metabolite faster than adults, 
resulting in a lower exposure for a given mg/kg dose. Doses of 2 mg/kg give oseltamivir carboxylate 
exposures comparable to those achieved in adults receiving a single 75 mg dose (approximately 1 
mg/kg). The pharmacokinetics of oseltamivir in children and adolescents 12 years of age or older are 
similar to those in adults. 
Elderly 
Exposure to the active metabolite at steady state was 25 to 35 % higher in older people (age 65 to 78 
years) compared to adults less than 65 years of age given comparable doses of oseltamivir. Half-lives 
observed in older people were similar to those seen in young adults. On the basis of drug exposure 
and tolerability, dosage adjustments are not required for older people unless there is evidence of 
moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance below 60 ml /min) (see section 4.2). 
Renal impairment 
Administration of 100 mg oseltamivir phosphate twice daily for 5 days to patients with various degrees 
of renal impairment showed that exposure to oseltamivir carboxylate is inversely proportional to 
declining renal function. For dosing, see section 4.2. 
Hepatic impairment 
In vitro studies have concluded that exposure to oseltamivir is not expected to be increased 
significantly nor is exposure to the active metabolite expected to be significantly decreased in patients 
with hepatic impairment (see section 4.2). 
Pregnant Women 
A pooled population pharmacokinetic analysis indicates that the Ebilfumin dosage regimen  
described in Section 4.2 Posology and method of administration results in lower exposure (30% on  
average across all trimesters) to the active metabolite in pregnant women compared to  
non-pregnant women. The lower predicted exposure however, remains above inhibitory concentrations 
(IC95 values) and at a therapeutic level for a range of  influenza virus strains. In addition, there is 
evidence from observational studies showing benefit of the current dosing regimen in this patient 
population. Therefore, dose adjustments are not recommended for pregnant women in the treatment  
or prophylaxis of influenza (see section 4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation). 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunocompromised Patients 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses indicate that treatment of adult and paediatric (<18 years old) 
immunocompromised patients with oseltamivir (as described in Section 4.2. Posology and method of 
administration) results in an increased predicted exposure (from approximately 5% up to 50%) to the 
active metabolite when compared to non-immunocompromised patients with comparable creatinine 
clearance. Due to the wide safety margin of the active metabolite, no dose adjustments are required in 
patients due to their immunocompromised status. However, for immunocompromised patients with 
renal impairment, doses should be adjusted as outlined in section 4.2. Posology and method of 
administration.  
Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic analyses from two studies in immunocompromised patients 
indicated that there was no meaningful additional benefit in exposures higher than those achieved after 
the administration of the standard dose.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Preclinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated-dose toxicity and genotoxicity. Results of the conventional rodent 
carcinogenicity studies showed a trend towards a dose-dependent increase in the incidence of some 
tumours that are typical for the rodent strains used. Considering the margins of exposure in relation to 
the expected exposure in the human use, these findings do not change the benefit-risk of oseltamivir in 
its adopted therapeutic indications. 
Teratology studies have been conducted in rats and rabbits at doses of up to 1,500 mg/kg/day and 500 
mg/kg/day, respectively. No effects on foetal development were observed. A rat fertility study up to a 
dose of 1,500 mg/kg/day demonstrated no adverse reactions on either sex. In pre- and post-natal rat 
studies, prolonged parturition was noted at 1,500 mg/kg/day: the safety margin between human 
exposure and the highest no-effect dose (500 mg/kg/day) in rats is 480-fold for oseltamivir and 44-fold 
for the active metabolite, respectively. Foetal exposure in the rats and rabbits was approximately 15 to 
20 % of that of the mother. 
In lactating rats, oseltamivir and the active metabolite are excreted in the milk. Limited data indicate 
that oseltamivir and the active metabolite are excreted in human milk. Extrapolation of the animal data 
provides estimates of 0.01 mg/day and 0.3 mg/day for the respective compounds. 
A potential for skin sensitisation to oseltamivir was observed in a "maximisation" test in guinea pigs. 
Approximately 50 % of the animals treated with the unformulated active substance showed erythema 
after challenging the induced animals. Reversible irritancy of rabbits' eyes was detected. 
Whereas very high oral single doses of oseltamivir phosphate salt, up to the highest dose tested (1,310 
mg/kg), had no adverse reactions in adult rats, such doses resulted in toxicity in juvenile 7-day- old rat 
pups, including death. These reactions were seen at doses of 657 mg/kg and higher. At 500 mg/kg, no 
adverse reactions were seen, including upon chronic treatment (500 mg/kg/day administered from 7 to 
21 days post partum). 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Ebilfumin 30 mg hard capsules 
Capsule core 
Pregelatinised starch (derived from maize starch) 
Talc 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Povidone (K-29/32) 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Sodium stearyl fumarate 
Capsule shell 
Gelatin 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Printing ink 
Shellac Glaze-45% (20% esterified) 
Black iron oxide (E172) 
Propylene glycol (E1520) 
Ammonium hydroxide 28% (E527) 
Ebilfumin 45 mg hard capsules 
Capsule core 
Pregelatinised starch (derived from maize starch) 
Talc 
Povidone (K-29/32) 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Sodium stearyl fumarate 
Capsule shell 
Gelatin 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Printing ink 
Shellac Glaze-45% (20% esterified) 
Black iron oxide (E172) 
Propylene glycol (E1520) 
Ammonium hydroxide 28% (E527) 
Ebilfumin 75 mg hard capsules 
Capsule core 
Pregelatinised starch (derived from maize starch) 
Talc 
Povidone (K-29/32) 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Sodium stearyl fumarate 
Capsule shell 
Cap: 
Gelatin 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Body: 
Gelatin 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Printing ink 
Shellac Glaze-45% (20% esterified) 
Black iron oxide (E172) 
Propylene glycol (E1520) 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ammonium hydroxide 28% (E527) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
6 years 
Storage of the pharmacy compounded suspension 
Shelf life of 3 weeks when stored below 25 °C. 
Shelf life of 6 weeks at 2°C - 8°C. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store below 25°C. 
For storage conditions of the pharmacy compounded suspension, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
PVC/PE/PVdC/Al blisters or HDPE containers with LDPE lid (and a desiccant). 
Pack-size 10 capsules. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
Extemporaneous formulation 
When oseltamivir powder for oral suspension is not available 
Commercially manufactured oseltamivir powder for oral suspension (6 mg/ml) is the preferred 
product for paediatric and adult patients who have difficulties swallowing capsules or where lower 
doses are needed.  In the event that commercially manufactured oseltamivir powder for oral 
suspension is not available, the pharmacist may compound a suspension (6 mg/ml) from Ebilfumin 
capsules or patients can prepare the suspension from capsules at home. 
The pharmacy preparation should be preferred to home preparation. Detailed information on the home 
preparation can be found in the package leaflet of Ebilfumin capsules under “Making liquid Ebilfumin 
at home”. 
Syringes of appropriate volume and grading should be provided for administering the pharmacy 
compounded suspension as well as for the procedures involved in the home preparation. In both cases, 
the correct volumes should preferably be marked on the syringes. 
Pharmacy compounding 
Pharmacy compounded 6 mg/ml suspension prepared from capsules 
Adults, adolescents and infants and children 1 year of age or older who are unable to swallow intact 
capsules 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This procedure describes the preparation of a 6 mg/ml suspension that will provide one patient with 
enough medicine for a 5-day course of treatment or a 10-day course of prophylaxis. For 
immunocompromised patients, a 10-day course of treatment is needed. 
The pharmacist may compound a 6 mg/ml suspension from Ebilfumin 30 mg, 45 mg or 75 mg 
capsules using water containing 0.05 % w/v sodium benzoate added as a preservative. 
First, calculate the total volume needed to be compounded and dispensed to provide a 5-day course of 
treatment or a 10-day course of prophylaxis for the patient. The total volume required is determined by 
the weight of the patient according to the recommendation in the table below. To allow for accurate 
volume withdrawal of up to 10 doses (2 withdrawals per daily treatment dose for 5 days), the column 
indicating measurement loss is to be considered for compounding. 
For immunocompromised patients, calculate the total volume needed to be compounded and dispensed 
to provide a 10-day course of treatment for the patient. The total volume needed is indicated in the 
table below for immunocompromised patients and is determined by the patient’s weight. To allow for 
accurate volume withdrawal of up to 20 doses (2 withdrawals per daily treatment dose for 10 days), 
the column indicating measurement loss is to be considered for compounding. 
Volume of pharmacy compounded 6 mg/ml suspension prepared based upon the patient’s 
weight for 5-day treatment or 10-day prophylaxis course  
Body weight 
(kg) 
10 kg to 15 kg 
> 15 kg to 23 kg 
> 23 kg to 40 kg 
> 40 kg 
Total volume to compound  
per patient weight 
(ml) 
Measurement loss not considered 
50 ml 
75 ml 
100 ml 
125 ml 
*Depending on the capsule strength used. 
Total volume to compound  
per patient weight 
(ml) 
Measurement loss considered 
60 ml or 75 ml* 
90 ml or 100 ml* 
125 ml 
137.5 ml (or 150 ml)* 
Volume of pharmacy compounded 6 mg/ml suspension prepared based upon the patient’s 
weight for 10-days of treatment for immunocompromised patients 
Body weight 
(kg) 
Total volume to compound  
per patient weight 
(ml) 
Measurement loss not considered 
Total volume to compound  
per patient weight 
(ml) 
Measurement loss considered 
10 kg to 15 kg 
> 15 kg to 23 kg 
> 23 kg to 40 kg 
> 40 kg 
100 ml 
150 ml 
200 ml 
250 ml 
125 ml 
187.5 ml 
250 ml 
300 ml 
Second, determine the number of capsules and the amount of vehicle (water containing 0.05 % w/v 
sodium benzoate added as a preservative) that is needed to prepare the total volume (calculated from 
the table above) of pharmacy compounded 6 mg/ml suspension as shown in the table below: 
Number of capsules and amount of vehicle needed to prepare the total volume of a pharmacy 
compounded 6 mg/ml suspension (for 5 days of treatment or 10-days of prophylaxis) 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Required number of Ebilfumin capsules 
(mg of oseltamivir) 
45 mg 
8 capsules 
(360 mg) 
30 mg 
12 capsules 
(360 mg) 
Required volume 
of vehicle 
59.5 ml 
10 capsules 
(450 mg) 
12 capsules 
(540 mg) 
15 capsules 
(450 mg) 
18 capsules 
(540 mg) 
74 ml 
89 ml 
Total volume 
of compounded 
suspension 
to be prepared 
60 ml 
75 ml 
90 ml 
75 mg 
Please use 
alternative 
capsule 
strength* 
6 capsules 
(450 mg) 
Please use 
alternative 
capsule 
strength* 
8 capsules 
(600 mg) 
125 ml 
100 ml 
98.5 ml 
20 capsules 
(600 mg) 
10 capsules 
(750 mg) 
Please use 
alternative 
capsule 
strength* 
Please use 
alternative 
capsule 
strength* 
Please use 
alternative 
capsule 
strength* 
* There is no combination of this capsule strength that can be used to achieve the target concentration; therefore, 
please use an alternative capsule strength. 
Please use 
alternative 
capsule 
strength* 
25 capsules 
(750 mg) 
11 capsules 
(825 mg) 
123.5 ml 
137.5 ml 
136 ml 
Number of capsules and amount of vehicle needed to prepare the total volume of a pharmacy 
compounded 6 mg/ml suspension (for 10 days of treatment in immunocompromised patients) 
Required number of Ebilfumin capsules 
(mg of oseltamivir) 
Total volume 
of compounded 
suspension 
to be prepared 
125ml 
75 mg 
10 capsules 
(750 mg) 
187.5ml 
15 capsules 
(1120 mg) 
45 mg 
Please use 
alternative 
capsule 
strength* 
25 capsules 
(1120 mg) 
30 mg 
25 capsules 
(750 mg) 
Required volume 
of vehicle 
123.5 ml 
185 ml 
Please use 
alternative 
capsule 
strength* 
50 capsules 
(1500 mg) 
250ml 
20 capsules 
(1500 mg) 
Please use 
alternative 
capsule 
strength* 
40 capsules 
(1800 mg) 
* There is no combination of this capsule strength that can be used to achieve the target concentration; therefore, 
60 capsules 
(1800 mg) 
24 capsules 
(1800 mg) 
246.5 ml 
296 ml 
300ml 
please use an alternative capsule strength. 
Third, follow the procedure below for compounding the 6 mg/ml suspension from Ebilfumin capsules: 
23 
 
 
 
 
1. 
In a glass beaker of suitable size place the stated amount of water containing 0.05 % w/v 
sodium benzoate added as a preservative. 
Open the stated amount of Ebilfumin capsules and transfer the content of each capsule directly 
to the preserved water in the glass beaker.  
3.  With a suitable stirring device, stir for 2 minutes. 
2. 
(Note: The drug substance, oseltamivir phosphate, readily dissolves in water. The suspension is 
caused by some of the excipients of Ebilfumin capsules, which are insoluble.) 
Transfer the suspension to an amber glass or amber polyethyleneterephthalate (PET) bottle. 
A funnel may be used to eliminate any spillage. 
Close the bottle using a child-resistant cap. 
Put an ancillary label on the bottle indicating “Shake Gently Before Use”. 
(Note: This compounded suspension should be gently shaken prior to administration to 
minimise the tendency for air entrapment.) 
Instruct the parent or caregiver that any remaining material following completion of therapy 
must be discarded. It is recommended that this information be provided by either affixing an 
ancillary label to the bottle or adding a statement to the pharmacy label instructions. 
Place an appropriate expiration date label according to storage condition (see section 6.3). 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
Place a pharmacy label on the bottle that includes the patient’s name, dosing instructions, use by date, 
name of medicinal product and any other required information to be in compliance with local 
pharmacy regulations. Refer to the table below for the proper dosing instructions. 
Dosing chart for pharmacy-compounded 6 mg/ml suspension prepared from Ebilfumin 
capsules for patients 1 year of age or older 
Treatment dose 
(for 10 days*) 
Immuno-
compromised 
patients 
5 ml twice daily 
Dose 
(mg) 
30 mg 
Volume 
per dose 
6 mg/ml 
5 ml 
Treatment dose 
(for 5 days) 
5 ml twice daily 
Body 
weight 
(kg) 
10 kg to 15 
kg 
> 15 kg to 
23 kg 
> 23 kg to 
40 kg 
> 40 kg  
*The recommended duration in immunocompromised patients (≥1 year of age) is 10 days. See Special 
Populations, Immunocompromised Patients for more information. 
12.5 ml twice daily 
12.5 ml twice daily 
7.5 ml twice daily 
7.5 ml twice daily 
10 ml twice daily 
10 ml twice daily 
12.5 ml 
7.5 ml 
75 mg 
60 mg 
45 mg 
10 ml 
Prophylaxis dose 
(for 10 days) 
5 ml once daily 
7.5 ml once daily 
10 ml once daily 
12.5 ml once daily 
Dispense the pharmacy compounded suspension with a graduated oral syringe for measuring small 
amounts of suspension. If possible, mark or highlight the graduation corresponding to the appropriate 
dose (according to the dosing table above ) on the oral syringe for each patient. 
The appropriate dose must be mixed by the caregiver with an equal quantity of sweet liquid food, such 
as sugar water, chocolate syrup, cherry syrup, dessert toppings (like caramel or fudge sauce) to mask 
the bitter taste. 
Infants less than 1 year of age 
This procedure describes the preparation of a 6 mg/ml suspension that will provide one patient with 
enough medication for a 5-day course of treatment or a 10-day course of prophylaxis. For 
immunocompromised patients, a 10-day course of treatment for the patient is needed. 
The pharmacist may compound a 6 mg/ml suspension from Ebilfumin 30 mg, 45 mg or 75 mg 
capsules using water containing 0.05 % w/v sodium benzoate added as a preservative. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First, calculate the total volume needed to be compounded and dispensed for each patient. The total 
volume required is determined by the weight of the patient according to the recommendation in the 
table below. To allow for accurate volume withdrawal of up to 10 doses (2 withdrawals per daily 
treatment  dose  for  5  days),  the  column  indicating  measurement  loss  is  to  be  considered  for 
compounding. 
For immunocompromised patients, calculate the total volume needed to be compounded and dispensed 
to provide a 10-day course of treatment for the patient. The total volume needed is indicated in the 
table below and is determined by the patient’s weight. To allow for accurate volume withdrawal of up 
to 20 doses (2 withdrawals per daily treatment dose for 10 days), the column indicating measurement 
loss is to be considered for compounding. 
Volume of pharmacy compounded 6 mg/ml suspension prepared based upon the patient’s 
weight (for 5 days of treatment or 10-days of prophylaxis) 
Body weight 
(kg) 
Total volume to compound  
per patient weight 
(ml) 
Measurement loss not considered 
up to 40 ml 
50 ml 
Total volume to compound  
per patient weight 
(ml) 
Measurement loss considered 
50 ml 
60 ml or 75 ml* 
≤ 7 kg 
> 7 kg to 10 kg 
* Depending on the capsule strength used. 
Volume of pharmacy compounded 6 mg/ml suspension prepared based upon the patient’s 
weight (for 10-days of treatment in immunocompromised patients) 
Body weight 
(kg) 
≤ 7 kg 
> 7 kg to 10 kg 
Total volume to compound  
per patient weight 
(ml) 
Measurement loss not considered 
up to 80 ml 
100 ml 
Total volume to compound  
per patient weight 
(ml) 
Measurement loss considered 
100 ml 
125 ml 
Second, determine the number of capsules and the amount of vehicle (water containing 0.05 % w/v 
sodium benzoate added as a preservative) that is needed to prepare the total volume (calculated 
from the table above) of pharmacy compounded 6 mg/ml suspension as shown in the table below: 
Number of capsules and amount of vehicle needed to prepare the total volume of a 
pharmacy compounded 6 mg/ml suspension (for 5 days of treatment or 10-days of 
prophylaxis) 
Total volume 
of compounded 
suspension 
to be prepared 
50 ml 
Required number of Ebilfumin capsules 
(mg of oseltamivir) 
75 mg 
4 capsules 
(300 mg) 
45 mg 
Please use 
alternative 
capsule 
strength* 
30 mg 
10 capsules 
(300 mg) 
Required volume 
of vehicle 
49.5 ml 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
75 mg 
Please use 
alternative 
capsule 
strength* 
6 capsules 
(450 mg) 
Total volume 
of compounded 
suspension 
to be prepared 
60 ml 
Required number of Ebilfumin capsules 
(mg of oseltamivir) 
45 mg 
8 capsules 
(360 mg) 
30 mg 
12 capsules 
(360 mg) 
Required volume 
of vehicle 
59.5 ml 
75 ml 
10 capsules 
(450 mg) 
*There is no combination of this capsule strength that can be used to achieve the target concentration; therefore, 
please use an alternative capsule strength. 
15 capsules 
(450 mg) 
74 ml 
Number of capsules and amount of vehicle needed to prepare the total volume of a pharmacy 
compounded 6 mg/ml suspension (for 10-days of treatment in immunocompromised patients) 
Required number of Ebilfumin capsules 
(mg of oseltamivir) 
Total volume 
of compounded 
suspension 
to be prepared 
100 ml 
Required volume 
of vehicle 
98.5 ml 
75 mg 
8 capsules 
(600 mg) 
45 mg 
Please use 
alternative 
capsule 
strength* 
Please use 
alternative 
capsule 
strength* 
* There is no combination of this capsule strength that can be used to achieve the target concentration; therefore, 
30 mg 
20 capsules 
(600 mg) 
10 capsules 
(750 mg) 
25 capsules 
(750 mg) 
123.5 ml 
125 ml 
please use an alternative capsule strength. 
Third, follow the procedure below for compounding the 6 mg/ml suspension from Ebilfumin capsules: 
In a glass beaker of suitable size place the stated amount of water containing 0.05 % w/v 
1. 
sodium benzoate added as a preservative. 
Open the stated amount of Ebilfumin capsules and transfer the content of each capsule directly 
to the preserved water in the glass beaker.  
3.  With a suitable stirring device, stir for 2 minutes. 
2. 
(Note: The drug substance, oseltamivir phosphate, readily dissolves in water. The suspension is 
caused by some of the excipients of Ebilfumin capsules, which are insoluble.) 
Transfer the suspension to an amber glass or amber polyethyleneterephthalate (PET) bottle. 
A funnel may be used to eliminate any spillage. 
Close the bottle using a child-resistant cap. 
Put an ancillary label on the bottle indicating “Shake Gently Before Use”. 
(Note: This compounded suspension should be gently shaken prior to administration to 
minimise the tendency for air entrapment.) 
Instruct the parent or caregiver that any remaining material following completion of therapy 
must be discarded. It is recommended that this information be provided by either affixing an 
ancillary label to the bottle or adding a statement to the pharmacy label instructions. 
Place an appropriate expiration date label according to storage condition (see section 6.3). 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
Place a pharmacy label on the bottle that includes the patient’s name, dosing instructions, use by 
date, name of medicinal product and any other required information to be in compliance with local 
pharmacy regulations. Refer to the table below for the proper dosing instructions. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dosing chart for pharmacy compounded 6 mg/ml suspension prepared from Ebilfumin 
capsules for infants less than 1 year of age 
Body 
Weight 
(rounded to 
the nearest 
0.5 kg) 
3 kg 
Dose 
(mg) 
9 mg 
Volume 
per dose 
(6 
mg/ml) 
Treatment Dose 
(for 10 days*) 
Immuno-
compromised 
patients 
Treatment Dose 
(for 5 days) 
1.5 ml 
1.5 ml twice daily 
1.5 ml twice daily 
3.5 kg 
10.5 mg 
4 kg 
4.5 kg 
5 kg 
5.5 kg 
6 kg 
6.5 kg 
7 kg 
7.5 kg 
8 kg 
8.5 kg 
9 kg 
9.5 kg 
10 kg 
12 mg 
13.5 mg 
15 mg 
16.5 mg 
18 mg 
19.5 mg 
21 mg 
22.5 mg 
24 mg 
25.5 mg 
27 mg 
28.5 mg 
30 mg 
1.8 ml 
2.0 ml 
2.3 ml 
2.5 ml 
2.8 ml 
3.0 ml 
3.3 ml 
3.5 ml 
3.8 ml 
4.0 ml 
4.3 ml 
4.5 ml 
4.8 ml 
5.0 ml 
1.8 ml twice daily 
2.0  ml twice daily 
2.3 ml twice daily 
2.5 ml twice daily 
2.8 ml twice daily 
3.0 ml twice daily 
3.3 ml twice daily 
3.5 ml twice daily 
3.8 ml twice daily 
4.0 ml twice daily 
4.3 ml twice daily 
4.5 ml twice daily 
4.8 ml twice daily 
5.0 ml twice daily 
1.8 ml twice daily 
2.0 ml twice daily 
2.3 ml twice daily 
2.5 ml twice daily 
2.8 ml twice daily 
3.0 ml twice daily 
3.3 ml twice daily 
3.5ml twice daily 
3.8 ml twice daily 
4.0 ml twice daily 
4.3 ml twice daily 
4.5 ml twice daily 
4.8 ml twice daily 
5.0 ml twice daily 
1.5 ml once daily 
Prophylaxis Dose 
(for 10 days) 
Dispenser 
size 
to use 
(grading 0.1 
ml) 
2.0 ml (or 3.0 
ml) 
2.0 ml (or 
3.0 ml) 
1.8 ml once daily 
3.0 ml 
2.0  ml once daily 
3.0 ml 
2.3 ml once daily 
3.0 ml  
2.5 ml once daily 
2.8 ml once daily 
3.0 ml  
3.0 ml once daily  3.0 ml (or 
3.3 ml once daily 
3.5 ml once daily 
3.8 ml once daily 
4.0 ml once daily 
4.3 ml once daily 
4.5 ml once daily 
4.8 ml once daily 
5.0 ml once daily 
5.0 ml) 
5.0 ml  
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
* The recommended duration in immunocompromised infants (0-12 months old) is 10 days.  See Special Populations, 
Immunocompromised Patients for more information. 
Dispense the pharmacy compounded suspension with a graduated oral syringe for measuring small 
amounts of suspension. If possible, mark or highlight the graduation corresponding to the 
appropriate dose (according to the dosing tables above) on the oral syringe for each patient. 
The appropriate dose must be mixed by the caregiver with an equal quantity of sweet liquid food, 
such as sugar water, chocolate syrup, cherry syrup, dessert toppings (like caramel or fudge sauce) to 
mask the bitter taste. 
Home preparation 
When commercially manufactured oseltamivir powder for oral suspension is not available, a 
pharmacy compounded suspension prepared from Ebilfumin capsules must be used (see detailed 
instructions above). If the commercially manufactured oseltamivir powder for oral suspension and the 
pharmacy compounded suspension is also not available, Ebilfumin suspension may be prepared at 
home. 
When appropriate capsule strengths are available for the dose needed, the dose is given by opening 
the capsule and mixing its contents with no more than one teaspoon of a suitable sweetened food 
product. The bitter taste can be masked by products such as sugar water, chocolate syrup, cherry 
syrup, dessert toppings (like caramel or fudge sauce). The mixture should be stirred and given 
entirely to the patient. The mixture must be swallowed immediately after its preparation. 
When only 75 mg capsules are available, and doses of 30 mg or 45 mg are needed, the preparation 
of Ebilfumin suspension involves additional steps. Detailed instructions can be found in the package 
leaflet of Ebilfumin capsules under “Making liquid Ebilfumin at home”. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Actavis Group PTC ehf. 
Dalshraun 1 
220 Hafnarfjörður 
Iceland 
8. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Ebilfumin 30 mg hard capsules 
EU/1/14/915/001 (10 hard capsules blister) 
EU/1/14/915/002 (10 hard capsules container) 
Ebilfumin 45 mg hard capsules 
EU/1/14/915/003 (10 hard capsules container) 
EU/1/14/915/004 (10 hard capsules blister) 
Ebilfumin 75 mg hard capsules 
EU/1/14/915/005 (10 hard capsules blister) 
EU/1/14/915/006 (10 hard capsules container) 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 22 May 2014 
Date of latest renewal: 12 February 2019 
10. 
DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Balkanpharma-Dupnitsa AD 
3 Samokovsko Shosse Str. 
Dupnitsa 2600 
Bulgaria 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal products subject to medical prescription  
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
•  Periodic safety update reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
•  Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
Label for HDPE tablet container and outer carton for tablet container and blister 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ebilfumin 30 mg hard capsules 
oseltamivir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains oseltamivir phosphate equivalent to 30 mg of oseltamivir. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
10 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Actavis Group PTC ehf. 
Hafnarfjörður 
Iceland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/915/001 (10 hard capsules blister) 
EU/1/14/915/002 (10 hard capsules container) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
[Only applicable for outer packaging:] 
Ebilfumin 30 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
[Only applicable for outer packaging:] 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
[Only applicable for outer packaging:] 
PC: {number} 
SN: {number} 
NN: {number} 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blisters  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ebilfumin 30 mg hard capsules 
oseltamivir 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Actavis 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
Label for HDPE tablet container and outer carton for tablet container and blister 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ebilfumin 45 mg hard capsules 
oseltamivir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains oseltamivir phosphate equivalent to 45 mg of oseltamivir. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
10 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Actavis Group PTC ehf. 
Hafnarfjörður 
Iceland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/915/003 (10 hard capsules container) 
EU/1/14/915/004 (10 hard capsules blister) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
[Only applicable for outer packaging:] 
Ebilfumin 45 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
[Only applicable for outer packaging:] 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
[Only applicable for outer packaging:] 
PC: {number} 
SN: {number} 
NN: {number} 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blisters  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ebilfumin 45 mg hard capsules 
oseltamivir 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Actavis 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
Label for HDPE tablet container and outer carton for tablet container and blister 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ebilfumin 75 mg hard capsules 
oseltamivir 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each hard capsule contains oseltamivir phosphate equivalent to 75 mg of oseltamivir. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
10 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25°C. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Actavis Group PTC ehf. 
Hafnarfjörður 
Iceland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/915/005 (10 hard capsules blister) 
EU/1/14/915/006 (10 hard capsules container) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
[Only applicable for outer packaging:] 
Ebilfumin 75 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
[Only applicable for outer packaging:] 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
[Only applicable for outer packaging:] 
PC: {number} 
SN: {number} 
NN: {number} 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
Blisters  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Ebilfumin 75 mg hard capsules 
oseltamivir 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Actavis 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package Leaflet: Information for the user 
Ebilfumin 30 mg hard capsules 
oseltamivir 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Ebilfumin is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you take Ebilfumin 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Ebilfumin 
Possible side effects  
How to store Ebilfumin 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Ebilfumin is and what it is used for 
• 
• 
• 
Ebilfumin is used for adults, adolescents, children and infants (including full-term newborn 
babies) for treating flu (influenza). It can be used when you have flu symptoms, and the flu 
virus is known to be going round in your community. 
Ebilfumin can also be prescribed for adults, adolescents, children and infants above 1 year of 
age for preventing flu, on a case-by-case basis – for instance, if you have been in contact with 
someone who has flu. 
Ebilfumin may be prescribed for adults, adolescents, children and infants (including full-term 
newborn babies) as preventive treatment in exceptional circumstances – for example, if there 
is a global epidemic of flu (a flu pandemic) and the seasonal flu vaccine may not provide 
sufficient protection.  
Ebilfumin contains oseltamivir, which belongs to a group of medicines named neuraminidase 
inhibitors. These medicines prevent the flu virus from spreading inside the body. They help to ease 
or prevent the symptoms of the flu virus infection. 
Influenza, usually called flu, is an infection caused by a virus. The signs of flu often include a sudden 
fever (more than 37.8 °C), cough, runny or stuffy nose, headaches, muscle aches and extreme 
tiredness. These symptoms can also be caused by other infections. True influenza infection only occurs 
during annual outbreaks (epidemics) when flu viruses are spreading in the local community. Outside 
epidemic periods, flu-like symptoms are usually caused by a different type of illness. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Ebilfumin  
Do not take Ebilfumin: 
• 
if you are allergic to oseltamivir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
Talk to your doctor if this applies to you. Do not take Ebilfumin. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Ebilfumin. 
Before you take Ebilfumin, make sure the prescribing doctor knows 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you are allergic to other medicines 
if you have problems with your kidneys. If so, your dose may need adjustment 
if you have a severe medical condition, which may require immediate hospitalisation 
if your immune system is not working 
if you have chronic heart disease or respiratory disease. 
During treatment with Ebilfumin, tell a doctor immediately: 
• 
if you notice changes in behaviour or mood (neuropsychiatric events), especially in children and 
adolescents. These may be signs of rare but serious side effects. 
Ebilfumin is not a flu vaccine 
Ebilfumin is not a vaccine: it treats infection, or prevents the flu virus spreading. A vaccine gives you 
antibodies against the virus. Ebilfumin will not change the effectiveness of a flu vaccine, and you 
might be prescribed both by your doctor. 
Other medicines and Ebilfumin 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. This includes medicines obtained without a prescription. The following medicines are 
particularly important: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
chlorpropamide (used to treat diabetes) 
methotrexate (used to treat e.g. rheumatoid arthritis) 
phenylbutazone (used to treat pain and inflammation) 
probenecid (used to treat gout) 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
You must tell your doctor if you are pregnant, if you think you are pregnant or if you are trying to get 
pregnant so that your doctor can decide if Ebilfumin is right for you. 
The effects on breast-fed infants are unknown. You must tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding 
so that your doctor can decide if Ebilfumin is right for you. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
Ebilfumin has no effect on your ability to drive or use machines. 
Ebilfumin contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to take Ebilfumin 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Take Ebilfumin as soon as possible, ideally within two days of the flu symptoms starting. 
The recommended doses 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For treating flu, take two doses daily. It is usually convenient to take one dose in the morning and 
one in the evening. It is important to complete the whole 5-day course, even if you start to feel 
better quickly. 
For patients with a weak immune system, treatment will continue for 10 days. 
For preventing flu or after being exposed to an infected person, take one dose daily for 10 days. It 
is best to take this in the mornings with breakfast. 
In special situations, such as widespread flu or for patients with a weak immune system, treatment 
will continue for up to 6 or 12 weeks. 
The recommended dose is based on the patient’s body weight. You must use the amount of 
oral capsules or suspension prescribed by the doctor. 
Adults and adolescents 13 years and over 
Body weight 
Treating flu: 
dose for 5 days 
Preventing flu: 
dose for 10 days 
Treating flu 
(Immunocompromise
d Patients):  
dose  
for 10 days* 
40 kg or more 
* For patients with a weak immune system, treatment is for 10 days 
**75 mg can be made up of a 30 mg capsule plus a 45 mg capsule 
75 mg** twice daily  75 mg** twice daily 
75 mg** once daily 
Children 1 to 12 years 
Body weight 
Treating flu: 
dose for 5 days 
Treating flu 
(Immunocompromise
d Patients): 
dose  
for 10 days* 
30 mg twice daily 
45 mg twice daily 
60 mg twice daily 
Preventing flu: 
dose for 10 days 
30 mg once daily 
45 mg once daily 
60 mg once daily 
75 mg** once daily 
10 to 15 kg 
30 mg twice daily 
More than 15 kg and up to 23 kg  45 mg twice daily 
More than 23 kg and up to 40 kg  60 mg twice daily 
More than 40 kg 
* For children with a weak immune system, treatment is for 10 days 
**75 mg can be made up of a 30 mg capsule plus a 45 mg capsule 
75 mg** twice daily  75 mg** twice daily 
Infants less than 1 year (0 to 12 months) 
Giving Ebilfumin to infants less than 1 year old for preventing flu during a flu pandemic should be 
based upon the judgment of a doctor after considering the potential benefit versus any potential risk 
to the infant. 
Body weight 
3 kg to 10+ kg 
Treating flu:  
dose  
for 5 days  
3 mg per kg 
body  
weight**, twice 
daily 
Treating flu 
(Immunocompromised 
Patients): 
dose  
for 10 days* 
3 mg per kg body  
weight**, twice daily 
Preventing flu:  
dose  
for 10 days 
3 mg per kg**,  
once daily 
* For infants with a weak immune system, treatment is for 10 days. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
** mg per kg = mg for each kilogram of the infant’s body weight. For example: 
If a 6-month-old weighs 8 kg, the dose is8 kg x 3mg per kg = 24 mg 
Method of administration 
Swallow the capsules whole with water. Do not break or chew the capsules. 
Ebilfumin can be taken with or without food, although taking it with food can reduce the chance 
of feeling or being sick (nausea or vomiting). 
People who find it hard to take capsules can use a liquid form of this medicine (oral 
suspension). If you need an oral suspension but it’s not available from your pharmacy, you can 
make a liquid form of Ebilfumin from these capsules. See Making Liquid Ebilfumin at home for 
instructions. 
If you take more Ebilfumin than you should 
Stop taking Ebilfumin and contact a doctor or pharmacist immediately. 
In most cases of overdose, people have not reported any side effects. When side effects were reported, 
they were similar to those from normal doses, as listed in section 4. 
Overdose has been reported to have occurred more frequently when oseltamivir was given to children 
than to adults and adolescents. Caution should be exercised when preparing liquid Ebilfumin for 
children and when administering Ebilfumin capsules or liquid Ebilfumin to children. 
If you forget to take Ebilfumin 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten capsule. 
If you stop taking Ebilfumin 
There are no side effects when you stop Ebilfumin. But if Ebilfumin is stopped earlier than your 
doctor told you, the symptoms of flu may come back. Always complete the course that your 
doctor prescribed. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Many of 
the side effects listed below may also be caused by influenza. 
• 
• 
The following serious side effects have been rarely reported since oseltamivir has been marketed: 
Anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions: severe allergic reactions, with face and skin 
• 
swelling, itchy rashes, low blood pressure and breathing difficulties 
Hepatic disorders (fulminant hepatitis, hepatic function disorder and jaundice): yellowing of the 
skin and white of the eyes, change in stool color, changes in behaviour 
Angioneurotic oedema: sudden onset of severe swelling of the skin mainly around the head 
and neck area, including eyes and tongue, with difficulties breathing 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis: complicated, possibly life- 
threatening allergic reaction, severe inflammation of the outer and possibly inner skin, initially 
with fever, sore throat, and fatigue, skin rashes, leading to blisters, peeling, shedding of larger 
areas of skin, possible breathing difficulties and low blood pressure 
Gastrointestinal bleeding: prolonged bleeding from the large bowel or spitting up blood 
Neuropsychiatric disorders, as described below. 
• 
• 
If you notice any of these symptoms, get medical help immediately. 
• 
The most frequently (very common and common) reported side effects of Ebilfumin are feeling or 
being sick (nausea, vomiting), stomach ache, stomach upset, headache and pain. These side effects 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mostly occur after the first dose of the medicine and will usually stop as treatment continues. The 
frequency of these effects is reduced if the medicinal product is taken with food. 
Rare but serious effects: get medical help at once 
(These may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
During oseltamivir treatment, rare events have been reported that include 
Convulsions and delirium, including altered level of consciousness 
• 
Confusion, abnormal behaviour 
• 
• 
Delusions, hallucinations, agitation, anxiety, nightmares 
These are reported primarily among children and adolescents and often started suddenly and resolved 
rapidly. A few cases resulted in self-injury, some with fatal outcome. Such neuropsychiatric events 
have also been reported in patients with influenza who were not taking oseltamivir. 
• 
Patients, especially children and adolescents, should be closely monitored for the behavioural 
changes described above. 
If you notice any of these symptoms, especially in younger people, get medical help immediately. 
Adults and adolescents 13 and over 
Very common side effects 
(may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
Headache 
Nausea. 
Common side effects 
(may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Bronchitis 
Cold sore virus 
Cough 
Dizziness 
Fever 
Pain 
Pain in limb 
Runny nose 
Sleeping difficulties 
Sore throat 
Stomach ache 
Tiredness 
Upper abdominal fullness 
Upper respiratory tract infections (inflammation of the nose, throat and sinuses) 
Upset stomach 
Vomiting. 
Uncommon side effects 
(may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Allergic reactions 
Altered level of consciousness 
Convulsion 
Heart rhythm abnormalities 
Mild to severe liver function disorders 
Skin reactions (inflammation of the skin, red and itchy rash, scaling skin). 
Rare side effects 
(may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
Thrombocytopenia (low platelet count) 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Visual disturbances. 
Children 1 to 12 years 
Very common side effects 
(may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
Cough 
Nasal congestion 
Vomiting. 
Common side effects 
(may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Conjunctivitis (red eyes and discharge or pain in the eye) 
Ear inflammation and other ear disorders 
Headache 
Nausea 
Runny nose 
Stomach ache 
Upper abdominal fullness 
Upset stomach. 
Uncommon side effects 
(may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
Inflammation of the skin 
Tympanic membrane (eardrum) disorder. 
Infants less than 1 year 
The reported side effects in infants 0 to 12 months old are mostly similar to the side effects reported for 
older children (1 year old or older). Additionally, diarrhoea and nappy rash have been reported. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. However, 
• 
• 
tell your doctor as soon as possible. 
if you or your child are repeatedly sick, or 
if the influenza symptoms get worse or the fever continues 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Ebilfumin 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store below 25°C. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Ebilfumin contains 
- 
- 
Each hard capsule contains oseltamivir phosphate equivalent to 30 mg of oseltamivir. 
The other ingredients are: 
capsule contents: pregelatinized starch (derived from maize starch), talc, povidone (K-29/32), 
croscarmellose sodium, sodium stearyl fumarate  
capsule shell: gelatin, yellow iron oxide (E172) and titanium dioxide (E171) 
printing ink: shellac glaze-45% (20% esterified), black iron oxide (E172), propylene glycol 
(E1520), ammonium hydroxide 28% (E527) 
What Ebilfumin looks like and contents of the pack 
The hard capsule consists of a rich yellow body and cap bearing the black imprint “OS 30”. Capsule 
size: 4. 
Ebilfumin 30 mg hard capsules are available in blister packs or tablet containers of 10. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Actavis Group PTC ehf. 
Dalshraun 1 
220 Hafnarfjörður 
Iceland 
Manufacturer 
Balkanpharma-Dupnitsa AD 
3 Samokovsko Shosse Str. 
Dupnitsa 2600 
Bulgaria 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG 
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373 
Lietuva 
UAB Teva Baltics 
Tel: +370 52660203 
България 
Тева Фарма ЕАД 
Teл: +359 24899585 
Česká republika 
Teva Pharmaceuticals CR, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 251007111 
Danmark 
Teva Denmark A/S 
Tlf: +45 44985511 
Deutschland 
TEVA GmbH 
Tel: +49 73140208 
Eesti 
UAB Teva Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 6610801 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
TEVA GmbH 
Tel: +49 73140208 
Magyarország 
Teva Gyógyszergyár Zrt. 
Tel: +36 12886400 
Malta 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
L-Irlanda 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Nederland 
Teva Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31 8000228400 
Norge 
Teva Norway AS 
Tlf: +47 66775590 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα 
Specifar Α.Β.Ε.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
España 
Teva Pharma, S.L.U. 
Tel: +34 913873280 
France 
Teva Santé 
Tél: +33 155917800 
Hrvatska 
Pliva Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 13720000 
Ireland 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Ísland 
Teva Pharma Iceland ehf. 
Sími: +354 5503300 
Italia 
Teva Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 028917981 
Κύπρος 
Specifar A.B.E.E. 
Ελλάδα 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
Latvija 
UAB Teva Baltics filiāle Latvijā 
Tel: +371 67323666 
Österreich 
ratiopharm Arzneimittel Vertriebs-GmbH 
Tel: +43 1970070 
Polska 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 223459300 
Portugal 
Teva Pharma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, 
Lda. 
Tel: +351 214767550 
România 
Teva Pharmaceuticals S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 212306524 
Slovenija 
Pliva Ljubljana d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 15890390 
Slovenská republika 
TEVA Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 257267911 
Suomi/Finland 
Teva Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 201805900 
Sverige 
Teva Sweden AB 
Tel: +46 42121100 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY} {month YYYY}. 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Information for the user 
For people who find it hard to take capsules, including very young children, a liquid medicine may 
be available.  
If you need a liquid medicine, but it’s not available, a suspension can be made up at the pharmacy 
from Ebilfumin capsules (see Information for healthcare professionals). This pharmacy preparation is 
the preferred option. 
If the pharmacy preparation is not available either, you can make Ebilfumin suspension from these 
capsules at home. 
The dose is the same for treating or preventing flu. The difference is how often it is given. 
Making Liquid Ebilfumin at home 
• 
• 
If you have the right capsule for the dose needed (a 30 mg or a 60 mg dose), you will open the 
capsule and stir its contents into one teaspoon (or less) of a suitable sweetened food product. 
This is usually suitable for children over 1 year. See the upper set of instructions. 
If you need smaller doses, making Ebilfumin suspension from capsules involves extra steps. 
This is suitable for younger children and babies: they usually need an Ebilfumin dose of less 
than 30 mg. See the lower set of instructions. 
Children 1 to 12 years 
To make a 30 mg or a 60 mg dose, 
you need: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
  One or two 30 mg Ebilfumin capsule(s) 
  Sharp scissors 
  One small bowl 
  Teaspoon (5 ml spoon) 
  Water 
  Sweet food to hide the bitter taste of the powder. 
  Examples are: chocolate or cherry syrup, and dessert toppings such as caramel or fudge 
sauce. Or you can make sugar water: mix a teaspoon of water with three-quarters (3/4) of a 
teaspoon of sugar. 
Step 1: Check the dose is correct 
To find the correct amount to use, find the patient’s weight on the left of the table. 
Look at the right column to check the number of capsules you will need to give the patient for a 
single dose. The amount is the same whether treating or preventing flu. 
You should use only 30 mg capsules for 30 mg and 60 mg doses. Do not try to make a 45 mg or 
75 mg dose by using the contents of 30 mg capsules. Use the appropriate size capsule instead.  
Weight 
Up to 15 kg 
15 kg up to 23 kg 
23 kg up to 40 kg 
Dose of Ebilfumin 
30 mg 
45 mg 
60 mg 
Number of capsules 
1 capsule 
Do not use 30 mg capsules 
2 capsules 
Step 2: Pour all the powder into a bowl 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hold a 30 mg capsule upright over a bowl and carefully snip off the rounded tip with scissors.   
Pour all of the powder into the bowl. 
Open a second capsule for a 60 mg dose. Pour all of the powder into the bowl.   
Be careful with the powder, because it may irritate your skin and eyes. 
Step 3: Sweeten the powder and give the dose 
Add a small amount – no more than one teaspoonful – of sweet food to the powder in the bowl.  
This is to hide the bitter taste of the Ebilfumin powder. 
Stir the mixture well. 
Give the whole contents of the bowl to the patient straight away.  
If there is some mixture left in the bowl, rinse the bowl with a small amount of water and get 
the patient to drink it all. 
Repeat this procedure every time you need to give the medicine. 
Infants less than 1 year  
To make a smaller single dose, you need: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
  One 30 mg Ebilfumin capsule 
  Sharp scissors 
  Two small bowls (use separate pairs of bowls for each child) 
  One large oral dose dispenser to measure out water – a 5 or 10 ml dispenser 
  One small oral dose dispenser showing measurements of 0.1 ml, to give the dose 
  Teaspoon (5 ml spoon) 
  Water 
  Sweet food to hide the bitter taste of the Ebilfumin. 
Examples are: chocolate or cherry syrup and dessert toppings such as caramel or fudge 
sauce.  
Or you can make sugar water: mix a teaspoon of water with three-quarters (3/4) of a 
teaspoon of sugar. 
Step 1: Pour all the powder into a bowl 
52 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hold a 30 mg capsule upright over one of the bowls and carefully snip off the rounded tip with 
scissors. Be careful with the powder: it may irritate your skin and eyes. 
Pour all of the powder into the bowl, whatever the dose you are making. 
The amount is the same whether you are treating or preventing flu. 
Step 2: Add water to dilute the medicine 
Use the larger dispenser 
to draw up 5 ml water. 
Add the water to the 
powder in the bowl. 
Stir the mixture with 
the teaspoon for 
about 2 minutes. 
Don’t worry if not all of the powder dissolves. The undissolved powder is just inactive 
ingredients. 
Step 3: Choose the correct amount for your child’s weight 
Look up the child’s weight on the left side of the table.  
The column on the right of the table shows how much of the liquid mixture you will need to 
draw up.  
Infants less than 1 year (including full-term newborn babies)  
Child’s weight 
(nearest) 
3 kg 
3.5 kg 
4 kg 
4.5 kg 
5 kg 
5.5 kg 
6 kg 
6.5 kg 
7 kg 
7.5 kg 
8 kg 
How much mixture  
to draw up 
1.5 ml 
1.8 ml 
2.0 ml 
2.3 ml 
2.5 ml 
2.8 ml 
3.0 ml 
3.3 ml 
3.5 ml 
3.8 ml 
4.0 ml 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.5 kg 
9 kg 
9.5 kg 
10 kg or more 
4.3 ml 
4.5 ml 
4.8 ml 
5.0 ml 
Step 4: Draw up the liquid mixture 
Make sure you have the right size dispenser.  
Draw up the correct amount of liquid mixture from the first bowl.  
Draw it up carefully so as not to include air bubbles. 
Gently squirt the correct dose into the second bowl. 
Step 5: Sweeten and give to the child 
Add a small amount – no more than one teaspoonful – of a sweet food to the second bowl. 
This is to hide the bitter taste of the Ebilfumin. 
Mix the sweet food and Ebilfumin suspension well. 
Give the whole contents of the second bowl (Ebilfumin suspension with sweet food added) to 
the child straight away. 
If there is anything left in the second bowl, rinse the bowl with a small amount of water and 
get the child to drink it all. For children unable to drink from a bowl, spoon-feed or use a bottle 
to feed the child the remaining liquid. 
Give the child something to drink. 
Throw away any unused liquid left in the first bowl. 
Repeat this procedure every time you need to give the medicine. 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Information for healthcare professionals only 
Patients who are unable to swallow capsules: 
Commercially manufactured oseltamivir powder for oral suspension (6 mg/ml) is the preferred product 
for paediatric and adult patients who have difficulties swallowing capsules or where lower doses are 
needed. In the event that oseltamivir powder for oral suspension is not available, the pharmacist may 
compound a suspension (6 mg/ml) from Ebilfumin capsules. If the pharmacy compounded suspension 
is also not available, patients may prepare the suspension from capsules at home. 
Oral dose dispensers (oral syringes) of appropriate volume and grading should be provided for 
administering the pharmacy compounded suspension, and for the procedures involved in the home 
preparation. In both cases, the correct volumes should preferably be marked on the dispensers. For 
home preparation, separate dispensers should be provided for taking the correct volume of water and 
for measuring the Ebilfumin-water mixture. For measuring 5.0 ml of water, dispensers of 5 ml or 
10 ml should be used. 
The appropriate dispenser sizes for taking the correct volume of Ebilfumin suspension (6 mg/ml) are 
shown below. 
Infants less than 1 year (including full-term newborn babies):  
Dose of Ebilfumin 
9 mg 
10 mg 
11.25 mg 
12.5 mg 
13.75 mg 
15 mg 
16.25 mg 
18 mg 
19.5 mg 
21 mg 
22.5 mg 
24 mg 
25.5 mg 
27 mg 
28.5 mg 
30 mg 
Amount of Ebilfumin 
suspension 
1.5 ml 
1.7 ml 
1.9 ml 
2.1 ml 
2.3 ml 
2.5 ml 
2.7 ml 
3.0 ml 
3.3 ml 
3.5 ml 
3.8 ml 
4.0 ml 
4.3 ml 
4.5 ml 
4.8 ml 
5.0 ml 
Dispenser size to use 
(grading 0.1 ml) 
2.0 ml (or 3.0 ml) 
2.0 ml (or 3.0 ml) 
2.0 ml (or 3.0 ml) 
3.0 ml 
3.0 ml 
3.0 ml 
3.0 ml 
3.0 ml (or 5.0 ml) 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package Leaflet: Information for the user 
Ebilfumin 45 mg hard capsules 
oseltamivir 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Ebilfumin is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you take Ebilfumin 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Ebilfumin 
Possible side effects  
How to store Ebilfumin 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Ebilfumin is and what it is used for 
• 
• 
• 
Ebilfumin is used for adults, adolescents, children and infants (including full-term newborn 
babies) for treating flu (influenza). It can be used when you have flu symptoms, and the flu 
virus is known to be going round in your community. 
Ebilfumin can also be prescribed for adults, adolescents, children and infants above 1 year of 
age for preventing flu, on a case-by-case basis – for instance, if you have been in contact with 
someone who has flu. 
Ebilfumin may be prescribed for adults, adolescents, children and infants (including full-term 
newborn babies) as preventive treatment in exceptional circumstances – for example, if there 
is a global epidemic of flu (a flu pandemic) and the seasonal flu vaccine may not provide 
sufficient protection.  
Ebilfumin contains oseltamivir, which belongs to a group of medicines named neuraminidase 
inhibitors. These medicines prevent the flu virus from spreading inside the body. They help to ease 
or prevent the symptoms of the flu virus infection. 
Influenza, usually called flu, is an infection caused by a virus. The signs of flu often include a sudden 
fever (more than 37.8 °C), cough, runny or stuffy nose, headaches, muscle aches and extreme 
tiredness. These symptoms can also be caused by other infections. True influenza infection only occurs 
during annual outbreaks (epidemics) when flu viruses are spreading in the local community. Outside 
epidemic periods, flu-like symptoms are usually caused by a different type of illness. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Ebilfumin  
Do not take Ebilfumin: 
• 
if you are allergic to oseltamivir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
Talk to your doctor if this applies to you. Do not take Ebilfumin. 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Ebilfumin. 
Before you take Ebilfumin, make sure the prescribing doctor knows 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you are allergic to other medicines 
if you have problems with your kidneys. If so, your dose may need adjustment 
if you have a severe medical condition, which may require immediate hospitalisation 
if your immune system is not working 
if you have chronic heart disease or respiratory disease. 
During treatment with Ebilfumin, tell a doctor immediately: 
• 
if you notice changes in behaviour or mood (neuropsychiatric events), especially in children and 
adolescents. These may be signs of rare but serious side effects. 
Ebilfumin is not a flu vaccine 
Ebilfumin is not a vaccine: it treats infection, or prevents the flu virus spreading. A vaccine gives you 
antibodies against the virus. Ebilfumin will not change the effectiveness of a flu vaccine, and you 
might be prescribed both by your doctor. 
Other medicines and Ebilfumin 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. This includes medicines obtained without a prescription. The following medicines are 
particularly important: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
chlorpropamide (used to treat diabetes) 
methotrexate (used to treat e.g. rheumatoid arthritis) 
phenylbutazone (used to treat pain and inflammation) 
probenecid (used to treat gout) 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
You must tell your doctor if you are pregnant, if you think you are pregnant or if you are trying to get 
pregnant so that your doctor can decide if Ebilfumin is right for you. 
The effects on breast-fed infants are unknown. You must tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding 
so that your doctor can decide if Ebilfumin is right for you. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
Ebilfumin has no effect on your ability to drive or use machines. 
Ebilfumin contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to take Ebilfumin 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Take Ebilfumin as soon as possible, ideally within two days of the flu symptoms starting. 
The recommended doses 
For treating flu, take two doses daily. It is usually convenient to take one dose in the morning and 
one in the evening. It is important to complete the whole 5-day course, even if you start to feel 
better quickly. 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For patients with a weak immune system, treatment will continue for 10 days. 
For preventing flu or after being exposed to an infected person, take one dose daily for 10 days. It 
is best to take this in the mornings with breakfast. 
In special situations, such as widespread flu or for patients with a weak immune system, treatment 
will continue for up to 6 or 12 weeks. 
The recommended dose is based on the patient’s body weight. You must use the amount of 
oral capsules or suspension prescribed by the doctor. 
Adults and adolescents 13 years and over 
Body weight 
Treating flu: 
dose for 5 days 
Preventing flu: 
dose for 10 days 
Treating flu 
(Immunocompromise
d Patients):  
dose  
for 10 days* 
40 kg or more 
* For patients with a weak immune system, treatment is for 10 days 
**75 mg can be made up of a 30 mg capsule plus a 45 mg capsule 
75 mg** twice daily  75 mg** twice daily 
75 mg** once daily 
Children 1 to 12 years 
Body weight 
Treating flu: 
dose for 5 days 
Treating flu 
(Immunocompromise
d Patients): 
dose  
for 10 days* 
30 mg twice daily 
45 mg twice daily 
60 mg twice daily 
Preventing flu: 
dose for 10 days 
30 mg once daily 
45 mg once daily 
60 mg once daily 
75 mg** once daily 
10 to 15 kg 
30 mg twice daily 
More than 15 kg and up to 23 kg  45 mg twice daily 
More than 23 kg and up to 40 kg  60 mg twice daily 
More than 40 kg 
* For children with a weak immune system, treatment is for 10 days 
**75 mg can be made up of a 30 mg capsule plus a 45 mg capsule 
75 mg** twice daily  75 mg** twice daily 
Infants less than 1 year (0 to 12 months) 
Giving Ebilfumin to infants less than 1 year old for preventing flu during a flu pandemic should be 
based upon the judgment of a doctor after considering the potential benefit versus any potential risk 
to the infant. 
Body weight 
3 kg to 10+ kg 
Treating flu:  
dose  
for 5 days  
3 mg per kg 
body  
weight**, twice 
daily 
Treating flu 
(Immunocompromised 
Patients): 
dose  
for 10 days* 
3 mg per kg body  
weight**, twice daily 
Preventing flu:  
dose  
for 10 days 
3 mg per kg**,  
once daily 
* For infants with a weak immune system, treatment is for 10 days. 
** mg per kg = mg for each kilogram of the infant’s body weight. For example: 
If a 6-month-old weighs 8 kg, the dose is8 kg x 3mg per kg = 24 mg 
Method of administration 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Swallow the capsules whole with water. Do not break or chew the capsules. 
Ebilfumin can be taken with or without food, although taking it with food can reduce the chance 
of feeling or being sick (nausea or vomiting). 
People who find it hard to take capsules can use a liquid form of this medicine (oral 
suspension). If you need an oral suspension but it’s not available from your pharmacy, you can 
make a liquid form of Ebilfumin from these capsules. See Making Liquid Ebilfumin at home for 
instructions. 
If you take more Ebilfumin than you should 
Stop taking Ebilfumin and contact a doctor or pharmacist immediately. 
In most cases of overdose, people have not reported any side effects. When side effects were reported, 
they were similar to those from normal doses, as listed in section 4. 
Overdose has been reported to have occurred more frequently when oseltamivir was given to children 
than to adults and adolescents. Caution should be exercised when preparing liquid Ebilfumin for 
children and when administering Ebilfumin capsules or liquid Ebilfumin to children. 
If you forget to take Ebilfumin 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten capsule. 
If you stop taking Ebilfumin 
There are no side effects when you stop Ebilfumin. But if Ebilfumin is stopped earlier than your 
doctor told you, the symptoms of flu may come back. Always complete the course that your 
doctor prescribed. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Many of 
the side effects listed below may also be caused by influenza. 
• 
• 
The following serious side effects have been rarely reported since oseltamivir has been marketed: 
Anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions: severe allergic reactions, with face and skin 
• 
swelling, itchy rashes, low blood pressure and breathing difficulties 
Hepatic disorders (fulminant hepatitis, hepatic function disorder and jaundice): yellowing of the 
skin and white of the eyes, change in stool color, changes in behaviour 
Angioneurotic oedema: sudden onset of severe swelling of the skin mainly around the head 
and neck area, including eyes and tongue, with difficulties breathing 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis: complicated, possibly life- 
threatening allergic reaction, severe inflammation of the outer and possibly inner skin, initially 
with fever, sore throat, and fatigue, skin rashes, leading to blisters, peeling, shedding of larger 
areas of skin, possible breathing difficulties and low blood pressure 
Gastrointestinal bleeding: prolonged bleeding from the large bowel or spitting up blood 
Neuropsychiatric disorders, as described below. 
• 
• 
If you notice any of these symptoms, get medical help immediately. 
• 
The most frequently (very common and common) reported side effects of Ebilfumin are feeling or 
being sick (nausea, vomiting), stomach ache, stomach upset, headache and pain. These side effects 
mostly occur after the first dose of the medicine and will usually stop as treatment continues. The 
frequency of these effects is reduced if the medicinal product is taken with food. 
Rare but serious effects: get medical help at once 
(These may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During oseltamivir treatment, rare events have been reported that include 
Convulsions and delirium, including altered level of consciousness 
• 
Confusion, abnormal behaviour 
• 
• 
Delusions, hallucinations, agitation, anxiety, nightmares 
These are reported primarily among children and adolescents and often started suddenly and resolved 
rapidly. A few cases resulted in self-injury, some with fatal outcome. Such neuropsychiatric events 
have also been reported in patients with influenza who were not taking oseltamivir. 
• 
Patients, especially children and adolescents, should be closely monitored for the behavioural 
changes described above. 
If you notice any of these symptoms, especially in younger people, get medical help immediately. 
Adults and adolescents 13 and over 
Very common side effects 
(may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
Headache 
Nausea. 
Common side effects 
(may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Bronchitis 
Cold sore virus 
Cough 
Dizziness 
Fever 
Pain 
Pain in limb 
Runny nose 
Sleeping difficulties 
Sore throat 
Stomach ache 
Tiredness 
Upper abdominal fullness 
Upper respiratory tract infections (inflammation of the nose, throat and sinuses) 
Upset stomach 
Vomiting. 
Uncommon side effects 
(may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Allergic reactions 
Altered level of consciousness 
Convulsion 
Heart rhythm abnormalities 
Mild to severe liver function disorders 
Skin reactions (inflammation of the skin, red and itchy rash, scaling skin). 
Rare side effects 
(may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
• 
Thrombocytopenia (low platelet count) 
Visual disturbances. 
Children 1 to 12 years 
Very common side effects 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
Cough 
Nasal congestion 
Vomiting. 
Common side effects 
(may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Conjunctivitis (red eyes and discharge or pain in the eye) 
Ear inflammation and other ear disorders 
Headache 
Nausea 
Runny nose 
Stomach ache 
Upper abdominal fullness 
Upset stomach. 
Uncommon side effects 
(may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
Inflammation of the skin 
Tympanic membrane (eardrum) disorder. 
Infants less than 1 year 
The reported side effects in infants 0 to 12 months old are mostly similar to the side effects reported for 
older children (1 year old or older). Additionally, diarrhoea and nappy rash have been reported. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. However, 
• 
• 
tell your doctor as soon as possible. 
if you or your child are repeatedly sick, or 
if the influenza symptoms get worse or the fever continues 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Ebilfumin 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store below 25°C. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Ebilfumin contains 
- 
- 
Each hard capsule contains oseltamivir phosphate equivalent to 45 mg of oseltamivir. 
The other ingredients are: 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
capsule contents: pregelatinized starch (derived from maize starch), talc, povidone (K-29/32), 
croscarmellose sodium, sodium stearyl fumarate  
capsule shell: gelatin, titanium dioxide (E171) 
printing ink: shellac glaze-45% (20% esterified), black iron oxide (E172), propylene glycol 
(E1520), ammonium hydroxide 28% (E527) 
What Ebilfumin looks like and contents of the pack 
The hard capsule consists of a white opaque body and cap bearing the black imprint “OS 45”. Capsule 
size: 4. 
Ebilfumin 45 mg hard capsules are available in blister packs or tablet containers of 10. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Actavis Group PTC ehf. 
Dalshraun 1 
220 Hafnarfjörður 
Iceland 
Manufacturer 
Balkanpharma-Dupnitsa AD 
3 Samokovsko Shosse Str. 
Dupnitsa 2600 
Bulgaria 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG 
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373 
Lietuva 
UAB Teva Baltics 
Tel: +370 52660203 
България 
Тева Фарма ЕАД 
Teл: +359 24899585 
Česká republika 
Teva Pharmaceuticals CR, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 251007111 
Danmark 
Teva Denmark A/S 
Tlf: +45 44985511 
Deutschland 
TEVA GmbH 
Tel: +49 73140208 
Eesti 
UAB Teva Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 6610801 
Ελλάδα 
Specifar Α.Β.Ε.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
TEVA GmbH 
Tel: +49 73140208 
Magyarország 
Teva Gyógyszergyár Zrt. 
Tel: +36 12886400 
Malta 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
L-Irlanda 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Nederland 
Teva Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31 8000228400 
Norge 
Teva Norway AS 
Tlf: +47 66775590 
Österreich 
ratiopharm Arzneimittel Vertriebs-GmbH 
Tel: +43 1970070 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
España 
Teva Pharma, S.L.U. 
Tel: +34 913873280 
France 
Teva Santé 
Tél: +33 155917800 
Hrvatska 
Pliva Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 13720000 
Ireland 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Ísland 
Teva Pharma Iceland ehf. 
Sími: +354 5503300 
Italia 
Teva Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 028917981 
Κύπρος 
Specifar A.B.E.E. 
Ελλάδα 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
Latvija 
UAB Teva Baltics filiāle Latvijā 
Tel: +371 67323666 
Polska 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 223459300 
Portugal 
Teva Pharma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, 
Lda. 
Tel: +351 214767550 
România 
Teva Pharmaceuticals S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 212306524 
Slovenija 
Pliva Ljubljana d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 15890390 
Slovenská republika 
TEVA Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 257267911 
Suomi/Finland 
Teva Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 201805900 
Sverige 
Teva Sweden AB 
Tel: +46 42121100 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY} {month YYYY}. 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Information for the user 
For people who find it hard to take capsules, including very young children, a liquid medicine may 
be available.  
If you need a liquid medicine, but it’s not available, a suspension can be made up at the pharmacy 
from Ebilfumin capsules (see Information for healthcare professionals). This pharmacy preparation is 
the preferred option. 
If the pharmacy preparation is not available either, you can make Ebilfumin suspension from these 
capsules at home. 
The dose is the same for treating or preventing flu. The difference is how often it is given. 
Making Liquid Ebilfumin at home 
• 
• 
If you have the right capsule for the dose needed (a 45 mg dose), you will open the capsule 
and stir its contents into one teaspoon (or less) of a suitable sweetened food product. This is 
usually suitable for children over 1 year. See the upper set of instructions. 
If you need smaller doses, making Ebilfumin suspension from capsules involves extra steps. 
This is suitable for younger, lighter children and babies: they usually need an Ebilfumin dose of 
less than 45 mg. See the lower set of instructions. 
Children 1 to 12 years 
To make a 45 mg dose, 
you need: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
  One 45 mg Ebilfumin capsule 
  Sharp scissors 
  One small bowl 
  Teaspoon (5 ml spoon) 
  Water 
  Sweet food to hide the bitter taste of the powder. 
  Examples are: chocolate or cherry syrup, and dessert toppings such as caramel or fudge 
sauce. Or you can make sugar water: mix a teaspoon of water with three-quarters (3/4) of a 
teaspoon of sugar. 
Step 1: Check the dose is correct 
To find the correct amount to use, find the patient’s weight on the left of the table. 
Look at the right column to check the number of capsules you will need to give the patient for a 
single dose. The amount is the same whether treating or preventing flu. 
You should use only 45 mg capsules for 45 mg doses. Do not try to make a 30 mg, 60 mg or 
75 mg dose by using the contents of 45 mg capsules. Use the appropriate size capsule instead.  
Weight 
Up to 15 kg 
15 kg up to 23 kg 
23 kg up to 40 kg 
Dose of Ebilfumin 
30 mg 
45 mg 
60 mg 
Number of capsules 
Do not use 45 mg capsules 
1 capsule 
Do not use 45 mg capsules 
Step 2: Pour all the powder into a bowl 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hold a 45 mg capsule upright over a bowl and carefully snip off the rounded tip with scissors.   
Pour all of the powder into the bowl.   
Be careful with the powder, because it may irritate your skin and eyes. 
Step 3: Sweeten the powder and give the dose 
Add a small amount – no more than one teaspoonful – of sweet food to the powder in the bowl.  
This is to hide the bitter taste of the Ebilfumin powder. 
Stir the mixture well. 
Give the whole contents of the bowl to the patient straight away.  
If there is some mixture left in the bowl, rinse the bowl with a small amount of water and get 
the patient to drink it all. 
Repeat this procedure every time you need to give the medicine. 
Infants less than 1 year  
To make a smaller single dose, you need: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
  One 45 mg Ebilfumin capsule 
  Sharp scissors 
  Two small bowls (use separate pairs of bowls for each child) 
  One large oral dose dispenser to measure out water – a 5 ml dispenser or 10 ml dispenser 
  One small oral dose dispenser showing measurements of 0.1 ml, to give the dose 
  Teaspoon (5 ml spoon) 
  Water 
  Sweet food to hide the bitter taste of the Ebilfumin. 
Examples are: chocolate or cherry syrup and dessert toppings such as caramel or fudge 
sauce.  
Or you can make sugar water: mix a teaspoon of water with three-quarters (3/4) of a 
teaspoon of sugar. 
Step 1: Pour all the powder into a bowl 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hold a 45 mg capsule upright over one of the bowls and carefully snip off the rounded tip with 
scissors. Be careful with the powder: it may irritate your skin and eyes. 
Pour all of the powder into the bowl, whatever the dose you are making. 
The amount is the same whether you are treating or preventing flu. 
Step 2: Add water to dilute the medicine 
Use the larger dispenser 
to draw up 7.5 ml water. 
Add the water to the 
powder in the bowl. 
Stir the mixture with 
the teaspoon for 
about 2 minutes. 
Don’t worry if not all of the powder dissolves. The undissolved powder is just inactive 
ingredients. 
Step 3: Choose the correct amount for your child’s weight 
Look up the child’s weight on the left side of the table.  
The column on the right of the table shows how much of the liquid mixture you will need to 
draw up.  
Infants less than 1 year (including full-term newborn babies) 
Child’s weight 
(nearest) 
3 kg 
3.5 kg 
4 kg 
4.5 kg 
5 kg 
5.5 kg 
6 kg 
6.5 kg 
7 kg 
7.5 kg 
8 kg 
8.5 kg 
How much mixture  
to draw up 
1.5 ml 
1.8 ml 
2.0 ml 
2.3 ml 
2.5 ml 
2.8 ml 
3.0 ml 
3.3 ml 
3.5 ml 
3.8 ml 
4.0 ml 
4.3 ml 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 kg 
9.5 kg 
10 kg or more 
4.5 ml 
4.8 ml 
5.0 ml 
Step 4: Draw up the liquid mixture 
Make sure you have the right size dispenser.  
Draw up the correct amount of liquid mixture from the first bowl.  
Draw it up carefully so as not to include air bubbles. 
Gently squirt the correct dose into the second bowl. 
Step 5: Sweeten and give to the child 
Add a small amount – no more than one teaspoonful – of a sweet food to the second bowl. 
This is to hide the bitter taste of the Ebilfumin. 
Mix the sweet food and Ebilfumin suspension well. 
Give the whole contents of the second bowl (Ebilfumin suspension with sweet food added) to 
the child straight away. 
If there is anything left in the second bowl, rinse the bowl with a small amount of water and 
get the child to drink it all. For children unable to drink from a bowl, spoon-feed or use a bottle 
to feed the child the remaining liquid. 
Give the child something to drink. 
Throw away any unused liquid left in the first bowl. 
Repeat this procedure every time you need to give the medicine. 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Information for healthcare professionals only 
Patients who are unable to swallow capsules:   
Commercially manufactured oseltamivir powder for oral suspension (6 mg/ml) is the preferred product 
for paediatric and adult patients who have difficulties swallowing capsules or where lower doses are 
needed. In the event that oseltamivir powder for oral suspension is not available, the pharmacist may 
compound a suspension (6 mg/ml) from Ebilfumin capsules. If the pharmacy compounded suspension 
is also not available, patients may prepare the suspension from capsules at home. 
Oral dose dispensers (oral syringes) of appropriate volume and grading should be provided for 
administering the pharmacy compounded suspension, and for the procedures involved in the home 
preparation. In both cases, the correct volumes should preferably be marked on the dispensers. For 
home preparation, separate dispensers should be provided for taking the correct volume of water and 
for measuring the Ebilfumin-water mixture. For measuring 5.0 ml of water, dispensers of 5 ml or 
10 ml should be used. 
The appropriate dispenser sizes for taking the correct volume of Ebilfumin suspension (6 mg/ml) are 
shown below. 
Infants less than 1 year (including full-term newborn babies):  
Dose of Ebilfumin 
9 mg 
10 mg 
11.25 mg 
12.5 mg 
13.75 mg 
15 mg 
16.25 mg 
18 mg 
19.5 mg 
21 mg 
22.5 mg 
24 mg 
25.5 mg 
27 mg 
28.5 mg 
30 mg 
Amount of Ebilfumin 
suspension 
1.5 ml 
1.7 ml 
1.9 ml 
2.1 ml 
2.3 ml 
2.5 ml 
2.7 ml 
3.0 ml 
3.3 ml 
3.5 ml 
3.8 ml 
4.0 ml 
4.3 ml 
4.5 ml 
4.8 ml 
5.0 ml 
Dispenser size to use 
(grading 0.1 ml) 
2.0 ml (or 3.0 ml) 
2.0 ml (or 3.0 ml) 
2.0 ml (or 3.0 ml) 
3.0 ml 
3.0 ml 
3.0 ml 
3.0 ml 
3.0 ml (or 5.0 ml) 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package Leaflet: Information for the user 
Ebilfumin 75 mg hard capsules 
oseltamivir 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Ebilfumin is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you take Ebilfumin 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Ebilfumin 
Possible side effects  
How to store Ebilfumin 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Ebilfumin is and what it is used for 
• 
• 
• 
Ebilfumin is used for adults, adolescents, children and infants (including full-term newborn 
babies) for treating flu (influenza). It can be used when you have flu symptoms, and the flu 
virus is known to be going round in your community. 
Ebilfumin can also be prescribed for adults, adolescents, children and infants above 1 year of 
age for preventing flu, on a case-by-case basis – for instance, if you have been in contact with 
someone who has flu. 
Ebilfumin may be prescribed for adults, adolescents, children and infants (including full-term 
newborn babies) as preventive treatment in exceptional circumstances – for example, if there 
is a global epidemic of flu (a flu pandemic) and the seasonal flu vaccine may not provide 
sufficient protection.  
Ebilfumin contains oseltamivir, which belongs to a group of medicines named neuraminidase 
inhibitors. These medicines prevent the flu virus from spreading inside the body. They help to ease 
or prevent the symptoms of the flu virus infection. 
Influenza, usually called flu, is an infection caused by a virus. The signs of flu often include a sudden 
fever (more than 37.8 °C), cough, runny or stuffy nose, headaches, muscle aches and extreme 
tiredness. These symptoms can also be caused by other infections. True influenza infection only occurs 
during annual outbreaks (epidemics) when flu viruses are spreading in the local community. Outside 
epidemic periods, flu-like symptoms are usually caused by a different type of illness. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Ebilfumin  
Do not take Ebilfumin: 
• 
if you are allergic to oseltamivir or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
Talk to your doctor if this applies to you. Do not take Ebilfumin. 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Ebilfumin. 
Before you take Ebilfumin, make sure the prescribing doctor knows 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you are allergic to other medicines 
if you have problems with your kidneys. If so, your dose may need adjustment 
if you have a severe medical condition, which may require immediate hospitalisation 
if your immune system is not working 
if you have chronic heart disease or respiratory disease. 
During treatment with Ebilfumin, tell a doctor immediately: 
• 
if you notice changes in behaviour or mood (neuropsychiatric events), especially in children and 
adolescents. These may be signs of rare but serious side effects. 
Ebilfumin is not a flu vaccine 
Ebilfumin is not a vaccine: it treats infection, or prevents the flu virus spreading. A vaccine gives you 
antibodies against the virus. Ebilfumin will not change the effectiveness of a flu vaccine, and you 
might be prescribed both by your doctor. 
Other medicines and Ebilfumin 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. This includes medicines obtained without a prescription. The following medicines are 
particularly important: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
chlorpropamide (used to treat diabetes) 
methotrexate (used to treat e.g. rheumatoid arthritis) 
phenylbutazone (used to treat pain and inflammation) 
probenecid (used to treat gout) 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
You must tell your doctor if you are pregnant, if you think you are pregnant or if you are trying to get 
pregnant so that your doctor can decide if Ebilfumin is right for you. 
The effects on breast-fed infants are unknown. You must tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding 
so that your doctor can decide if Ebilfumin is right for you. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
Ebilfumin has no effect on your ability to drive or use machines. 
Ebilfumin contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to take Ebilfumin 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Take Ebilfumin as soon as possible, ideally within two days of the flu symptoms starting. 
The recommended doses 
For treating flu, take two doses daily. It is usually convenient to take one dose in the morning and 
one in the evening. It is important to complete the whole 5-day course, even if you start to feel 
better quickly. 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For patients with a weak immune system, treatment will continue for 10 days. 
For preventing flu or after being exposed to an infected person, take one dose daily for 10 days. It 
is best to take this in the mornings with breakfast. 
In special situations, such as widespread flu or for patients with a weak immune system, treatment 
will continue for up to 6 or 12 weeks. 
The recommended dose is based on the patient’s body weight. You must use the amount of 
oral capsules or suspension prescribed by the doctor. 
Adults and adolescents 13 years and over 
Body weight 
Treating flu: 
dose for 5 days 
Preventing flu: 
dose for 10 days 
Treating flu 
(Immunocompromise
d Patients):  
dose  
for 10 days* 
40 kg or more 
* For patients with a weak immune system, treatment is for 10 days 
**75 mg can be made up of a 30 mg capsule plus a 45 mg capsule 
75 mg** twice daily  75 mg** twice daily 
75 mg** once daily 
Children 1 to 12 years 
Body weight 
Treating flu: 
dose for 5 days 
Treating flu 
(Immunocompromise
d Patients): 
dose  
for 10 days* 
30 mg twice daily 
45 mg twice daily 
60 mg twice daily 
Preventing flu: 
dose for 10 days 
30 mg once daily 
45 mg once daily 
60 mg once daily 
75 mg** once daily 
10 to 15 kg 
30 mg twice daily 
More than 15 kg and up to 23 kg  45 mg twice daily 
More than 23 kg and up to 40 kg  60 mg twice daily 
More than 40 kg 
* For children with a weak immune system, treatment is for 10 days 
**75 mg can be made up of a 30 mg capsule plus a 45 mg capsule 
75 mg** twice daily  75 mg** twice daily 
Infants less than 1 year (0 to 12 months) 
Giving Ebilfumin to infants less than 1 year old for preventing flu during a flu pandemic should be 
based upon the judgment of a doctor after considering the potential benefit versus any potential risk 
to the infant. 
Body weight 
3 kg to 10+ kg 
Treating flu:  
dose  
for 5 days  
3 mg per kg 
body  
weight**, twice 
daily 
Treating flu 
(Immunocompromised 
Patients): 
dose  
for 10 days* 
3 mg per kg body  
weight**, twice daily 
Preventing flu:  
dose  
for 10 days 
3 mg per kg**,  
once daily 
* For infants with a weak immune system, treatment is for 10 days. 
** mg per kg = mg for each kilogram of the infant’s body weight. For example: 
If a 6-month-old weighs 8 kg, the dose is8 kg x 3mg per kg = 24 mg 
Method of administration 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Swallow the capsules whole with water. Do not break or chew the capsules. 
Ebilfumin can be taken with or without food, although taking it with food can reduce the chance 
of feeling or being sick (nausea or vomiting). 
People who find it hard to take capsules can use a liquid form of this medicine (oral 
suspension). If you need an oral suspension but it’s not available from your pharmacy, you can 
make a liquid form of Ebilfumin from these capsules. See Making Liquid Ebilfumin at home for 
instructions. 
If you take more Ebilfumin than you should 
Stop taking Ebilfumin and contact a doctor or pharmacist immediately. 
In most cases of overdose, people have not reported any side effects. When side effects were reported, 
they were similar to those from normal doses, as listed in section 4. 
Overdose has been reported to have occurred more frequently when oseltamivir was given to children 
than to adults and adolescents. Caution should be exercised when preparing liquid Ebilfumin for 
children and when administering Ebilfumin capsules or liquid Ebilfumin to children. 
If you forget to take Ebilfumin 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten capsule. 
If you stop taking Ebilfumin 
There are no side effects when you stop Ebilfumin. But if Ebilfumin is stopped earlier than your 
doctor told you, the symptoms of flu may come back. Always complete the course that your 
doctor prescribed. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Many of 
the side effects listed below may also be caused by influenza. 
• 
• 
The following serious side effects have been rarely reported since oseltamivir has been marketed: 
Anaphylactic and anaphylactoid reactions: severe allergic reactions, with face and skin 
• 
swelling, itchy rashes, low blood pressure and breathing difficulties 
Hepatic disorders (fulminant hepatitis, hepatic function disorder and jaundice): yellowing of the 
skin and white of the eyes, change in stool color, changes in behaviour 
Angioneurotic oedema: sudden onset of severe swelling of the skin mainly around the head 
and neck area, including eyes and tongue, with difficulties breathing 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis: complicated, possibly life- 
threatening allergic reaction, severe inflammation of the outer and possibly inner skin, initially 
with fever, sore throat, and fatigue, skin rashes, leading to blisters, peeling, shedding of larger 
areas of skin, possible breathing difficulties and low blood pressure 
Gastrointestinal bleeding: prolonged bleeding from the large bowel or spitting up blood 
Neuropsychiatric disorders, as described below. 
• 
• 
If you notice any of these symptoms, get medical help immediately. 
• 
The most frequently (very common and common) reported side effects of Ebilfumin are feeling or 
being sick (nausea, vomiting), stomach ache, stomach upset, headache and pain. These side effects 
mostly occur after the first dose of the medicine and will usually stop as treatment continues. The 
frequency of these effects is reduced if the medicinal product is taken with food. 
Rare but serious effects: get medical help at once 
(These may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During oseltamivir treatment, rare events have been reported that include 
Convulsions and delirium, including altered level of consciousness 
• 
Confusion, abnormal behaviour 
• 
• 
Delusions, hallucinations, agitation, anxiety, nightmares 
These are reported primarily among children and adolescents and often started suddenly and resolved 
rapidly. A few cases resulted in self-injury, some with fatal outcome. Such neuropsychiatric events 
have also been reported in patients with influenza who were not taking oseltamivir. 
• 
Patients, especially children and adolescents, should be closely monitored for the behavioural 
changes described above. 
If you notice any of these symptoms, especially in younger people, get medical help immediately. 
Adults and adolescents 13 and over 
Very common side effects 
(may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
Headache 
Nausea. 
Common side effects 
(may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Bronchitis 
Cold sore virus 
Cough 
Dizziness 
Fever 
Pain 
Pain in limb 
Runny nose 
Sleeping difficulties 
Sore throat 
Stomach ache 
Tiredness 
Upper abdominal fullness 
Upper respiratory tract infections (inflammation of the nose, throat and sinuses) 
Upset stomach 
Vomiting. 
Uncommon side effects 
(may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Allergic reactions 
Altered level of consciousness 
Convulsion 
Heart rhythm abnormalities 
Mild to severe liver function disorders 
Skin reactions (inflammation of the skin, red and itchy rash, scaling skin). 
Rare side effects 
(may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
• 
Thrombocytopenia (low platelet count) 
Visual disturbances. 
Children 1 to 12 years 
Very common side effects 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
Cough 
Nasal congestion 
Vomiting. 
Common side effects 
(may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Conjunctivitis (red eyes and discharge or pain in the eye) 
Ear inflammation and other ear disorders 
Headache 
Nausea 
Runny nose 
Stomach ache 
Upper abdominal fullness 
Upset stomach. 
Uncommon side effects 
(may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
Inflammation of the skin 
Tympanic membrane (eardrum) disorder. 
Infants less than 1 year 
The reported side effects in infants 0 to 12 months old are mostly similar to the side effects reported 
for older children (1 year old or older). Additionally, diarrhoea and nappy rash have been reported. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. However, 
• 
• 
tell your doctor as soon as possible. 
if you or your child are repeatedly sick, or 
if the influenza symptoms get worse or the fever continues 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Ebilfumin 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store below 25°C. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Ebilfumin contains 
- 
- 
Each hard capsule contains oseltamivir phosphate equivalent to 75 mg of oseltamivir. 
The other ingredients are: 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
capsule contents: pregelatinized starch (derived from maize starch), talc, povidone (K-29/32), 
croscarmellose sodium, sodium stearyl fumarate  
capsule shell: cap: gelatin, yellow iron oxide (E172) and titanium dioxide (E171), body: gelatin, 
titanium dioxide (E171) 
printing ink: shellac glaze-45% (20% esterified), black iron oxide (E172), propylene glycol 
(E1520), ammonium hydroxide 28% (E527) 
What Ebilfumin looks like and contents of the pack 
The hard capsule consists of a white opaque body and a rich yellow cap bearing the black imprint “OS 
75”. Capsule size: 2. 
Ebilfumin 75 mg hard capsules are available in blister packs or tablet containers of 10. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Actavis Group PTC ehf. 
Dalshraun 1 
220 Hafnarfjörður 
Iceland 
Manufacturer 
Balkanpharma-Dupnitsa AD 
3 Samokovsko Shosse Str. 
Dupnitsa 2600 
Bulgaria 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Teva Pharma Belgium N.V./S.A./AG 
Tél/Tel: +32 38207373 
Lietuva 
UAB Teva Baltics 
Tel: +370 52660203 
България 
Тева Фарма ЕАД 
Teл: +359 24899585 
Česká republika 
Teva Pharmaceuticals CR, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 251007111 
Danmark 
Teva Denmark A/S 
Tlf: +45 44985511 
Deutschland 
TEVA GmbH 
Tel: +49 73140208 
Eesti 
UAB Teva Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 6610801 
Ελλάδα 
Specifar Α.Β.Ε.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
TEVA GmbH 
Tel: +49 73140208 
Magyarország 
Teva Gyógyszergyár Zrt. 
Tel: +36 12886400 
Malta 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
L-Irlanda 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Nederland 
Teva Nederland B.V. 
Tel: +31 8000228400 
Norge 
Teva Norway AS 
Tlf: +47 66775590 
Österreich 
ratiopharm Arzneimittel Vertriebs-GmbH 
Tel: +43 1970070 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
España 
Teva Pharma, S.L.U. 
Tel: +34 913873280 
France 
Teva Santé 
Tél: +33 155917800 
Hrvatska 
Pliva Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 13720000 
Ireland 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
Ísland 
Teva Pharma Iceland ehf. 
Sími: +354 5503300 
Italia 
Teva Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 028917981 
Κύπρος 
Specifar A.B.E.E. 
Ελλάδα 
Τηλ: +30 2118805000 
Latvija 
UAB Teva Baltics filiāle Latvijā 
Tel: +371 67323666 
Polska 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 223459300 
Portugal 
Teva Pharma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, 
Lda. 
Tel: +351 214767550 
România 
Teva Pharmaceuticals S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 212306524 
Slovenija 
Pliva Ljubljana d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 15890390 
Slovenská republika 
TEVA Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 257267911 
Suomi/Finland 
Teva Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 201805900 
Sverige 
Teva Sweden AB 
Tel: +46 42121100 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Teva Pharmaceuticals Ireland 
Ireland 
Tel: +44 2075407117 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY} {month YYYY}. 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Information for the user 
For people who find it hard to take capsules, including very young children, a liquid medicine may 
be available.  
If you need a liquid medicine, but it’s not available, a suspension can be made up at the pharmacy 
from Ebilfumin capsules (see Information for healthcare professionals). This pharmacy preparation is 
the preferred option. 
If the pharmacy preparation is not available either, you can make Ebilfumin suspension from these 
capsules at home. 
The dose is the same for treating or preventing flu. The difference is how often it is given. 
Making Liquid Ebilfumin at home 
• 
• 
If you have the right capsule strength for the dose needed (a 75 mg dose), you will open the 
capsule and stir its contents into one teaspoon (or less) of a suitable sweetened food product. 
This is usually suitable for children over 1 year. See the upper set of instructions. 
If you need smaller doses, making Ebilfumin suspension from capsules involves extra steps. 
This is suitable for younger children and babies: they usually need an Ebilfumin dose of less 
than 30 mg. See the lower set of instructions. 
Adults, adolescents 13 years and over,  
and children weighing 40 kg and over 
To make a 75 mg dose, 
you need: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
  One 75 mg Ebilfumin capsule 
  Sharp scissors 
  One small bowl 
  Teaspoon (5 ml spoon) 
  Water 
  Sweet food to hide the bitter taste of the powder. 
  Examples are: chocolate or cherry syrup, and dessert toppings such as caramel or fudge 
sauce. Or you can make sugar water: mix a teaspoon of water with three-quarters (3/4) of a 
teaspoon of sugar. 
Step 1: Check the dose is correct 
To find the correct amount to use, find the patient’s weight on the left of the table. 
Look at the right column to check the number of capsules you will need to give the patient for a 
single dose. The amount is the same whether treating or preventing flu. 
You should use only 75 mg capsules for 75 mg doses. Do not try to make a 75 mg dose by using 
the contents of 30 mg or 45 mg capsules. 
Weight 
Dose of Ebilfumin 
Number of capsules 
40 kg and over 
75 mg 
1 capsule 
Not for children who weigh less than 40 kg 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You will need to prepare a dose of less than 75 mg for children who weigh less than 40 kg. See 
below.   
Step 2: Pour all the powder into a bowl 
Hold a 75 mg capsule upright over a bowl and carefully snip off the rounded tip with scissors.   
Pour all of the powder into the bowl. 
Be careful with the powder, because it may irritate your skin and eyes. 
Step 3: Sweeten the powder and give the dose 
Add a small amount – no more than one teaspoonful – of sweet food to the powder in the bowl.  
This is to hide the bitter taste of the Ebilfumin powder. 
Stir the mixture well. 
Give the whole contents of the bowl to the patient straight away.  
If there is some mixture left in the bowl, rinse the bowl with a small amount of water and get 
the patient to drink it all. 
Repeat this procedure every time you need to give the medicine. 
Infants less than 1 year, and children weighing less than 40 kg  
To make a smaller single dose, you need: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
  One 75 mg Ebilfumin capsule 
  Sharp scissors 
  Two small bowls 
  One large oral dose dispenser to measure out water – a 5 or 10 ml dispenser 
  One small oral dose dispenser showing measurements of 0.1 ml, to give the dose 
  Teaspoon (5 ml spoon) 
  Water 
  Sweet food to hide the bitter taste of the Ebilfumin. 
Examples are: chocolate or cherry syrup and dessert toppings such as caramel or fudge 
sauce.  
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Or you can make sugar water: mix a teaspoon of water with three-quarters (3/4) of a 
teaspoon of sugar. 
Step 1: Pour all the powder into a bowl 
Hold a 75 mg capsule upright over one of the bowls and carefully snip off the rounded tip with 
scissors. Be careful with the powder: it may irritate your skin and eyes. 
Pour all of the powder into the bowl, whatever the dose you are making. 
The amount is the same whether you are treating or preventing flu. 
Step 2: Add water to dilute the medicine 
Use the larger dispenser 
to draw up 12.5 ml water. 
Add the water to the 
powder in the bowl. 
Stir the mixture with 
the teaspoon for 
about 2 minutes. 
Don’t worry if not all of the powder dissolves. The undissolved powder is just inactive 
ingredients. 
Step 3: Choose the correct amount for your child’s weight 
Look up the child’s weight on the left side of the table.  
The column on the right of the table shows how much of the liquid mixture you will need to 
draw up.  
Infants less than 1 year (including full-term newborn babies) 
Child’s weight 
(nearest) 
3 kg 
3.5 kg 
4 kg 
4.5 kg 
5 kg 
5.5 kg 
6 kg 
How much mixture  
to draw up 
1.5 ml 
1.8 ml 
2.0 ml 
2.3 ml 
2.5 ml 
2.8 ml 
3.0 ml 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5 kg 
7 kg 
7.5 kg 
8 kg 
8.5 kg 
9 kg 
9.5 kg 
10 kg or more 
3.3 ml 
3.5 ml 
3.8 ml 
4.0 ml 
4.3 ml 
4.5 ml 
4.8 ml 
5.0 ml 
Children 1 year or older, weighing less than 40 kg 
Child’s weight 
(nearest) 
Up to 15 kg 
15 to 23 kg 
23 to 40 kg 
How much mixture  
to draw up 
5.0 ml 
7.5 ml 
10.0 ml 
Step 4: Draw up the liquid mixture 
Make sure you have the right size dispenser.  
Draw up the correct amount of liquid mixture from the first bowl.  
Draw it up carefully so as not to include air bubbles. 
Gently squirt the correct dose into the second bowl. 
Step 5: Sweeten and give to the child 
Add a small amount – no more than one teaspoonful – of a sweet food to the second bowl. 
This is to hide the bitter taste of the Ebilfumin. 
Mix the sweet food and Ebilfumin suspension well. 
Give the whole contents of the second bowl (Ebilfumin suspension with sweet food added) to 
the child straight away. 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If there is anything left in the second bowl, rinse the bowl with a small amount of water and 
get the child to drink it all. For children unable to drink from a bowl, spoon-feed or use a bottle 
to feed the child the remaining liquid. 
Give the child something to drink. 
Throw away any unused liquid left in the first bowl. 
Repeat this procedure every time you need to give the medicine. 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Information for healthcare professionals only 
Patients who are unable to swallow capsules:   
Commercially manufactured oseltamivir powder for oral suspension (6 mg/ml) is the preferred product 
for paediatric and adult patients who have difficulties swallowing capsules or where lower doses are 
needed. In the event that oseltamivir powder for oral suspension is not available, the pharmacist may 
compound a suspension (6 mg/ml) from Ebilfumin capsules. If the pharmacy compounded suspension 
is also not available, patients may prepare the suspension from capsules at home. 
Oral dose dispensers (oral syringes) of appropriate volume and grading should be provided for 
administering the pharmacy compounded suspension, and for the procedures involved in the home 
preparation. In both cases, the correct volumes should preferably be marked on the dispensers. For 
home preparation, separate dispensers should be provided for taking the correct volume of water and 
for measuring the Ebilfumin-water mixture. For measuring 12.5 ml of water, a 10 ml dispenser should 
be used. 
The appropriate dispenser sizes for taking the correct volume of Ebilfumin suspension (6 mg/ml) are 
shown below. 
Infants less than 1 year (including full-term newborn babies):  
Dose of Ebilfumin 
9 mg 
10 mg 
11.25 mg 
12.5 mg 
13.75 mg 
15 mg 
16.25 mg 
18 mg 
19.5 mg 
21 mg 
22.5 mg 
24 mg 
25.5 mg 
27 mg 
28.5 mg 
30 mg 
Amount of Ebilfumin 
suspension 
1.5 ml 
1.7 ml 
1.9 ml 
2.1 ml 
2.3 ml 
2.5 ml 
2.7 ml 
3.0 ml 
3.3 ml 
3.5 ml 
3.8 ml 
4.0 ml 
4.3 ml 
4.5 ml 
4.8 ml 
5.0 ml 
Children 1 year or older, weighing less than 40 kg: 
Amount of Ebilfumin 
suspension 
5.0 ml 
7.5 ml 
10.0 ml  
Dose of Ebilfumin 
30 mg 
45 mg 
60 mg 
Dispenser size to use 
(grading 0.1 ml) 
2.0 ml (or 3.0 ml) 
2.0 ml (or 3.0 ml) 
2.0 ml (or 3.0 ml) 
3.0 ml 
3.0 ml 
3.0 ml 
3.0 ml 
3.0 ml (or 5.0 ml) 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
5.0 ml 
Dispenser size to use 
(grading 0.1 ml) 
5.0 ml (or 10.0 ml) 
10.0 ml 
10.0 ml 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
