Summary of Risk Management Plan for EBILFUMIN (oseltamivir) 30 mg, 45 
mg and 75 mg hard capsules 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for EBILFUMIN 30 mg, 45 mg and 75 
mg hard capsules (hereinafter referred to as Ebilfumin). The RMP details important risks of 
Ebilfumin, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about 
Ebilfumin's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Ebilfumin's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Ebilfumin should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Ebilfumin should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Ebilfumin's 
RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What It is used for 
Ebilfumin is authorised for the treatment and prevention of influenza (see SmPC for the full 
indication). It contains oseltamivir as the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of Ebilfumin’s benefits can be found in Ebilfumin’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/ebilfumin. 
II. Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further 
Characterise the Risks  
Important risks of Ebilfumin, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Ebilfumin's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Ebilfumin are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Ebilfumin. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table 1: 
Summary of Safety Concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None  
II.B Summary of Important Risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Ebilfumin. 
II.C.2 Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for Ebilfumin. 
