ANNEX I  
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS  
1 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions.  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Ebvallo 2.8 × 107 – 7.3 × 107 cells/mL dispersion for injection 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION  
2.1  General description  
Ebvallo (tabelecleucel) is an allogeneic Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-specific T-cell immunotherapy 
which targets and eliminates EBV-positive cells in a human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-restricted 
manner. Tabelecleucel is produced from T cells harvested from human donors. Each Ebvallo lot is 
tested for specificity of lysis of EBV+ targets, T-cell HLA restriction of specific lysis and verification 
of low alloreactivity. An Ebvallo lot is selected for each patient from the existing product inventory 
based on an appropriate HLA restriction. 
2.2  Qualitative and quantitative composition  
Each vial contains 1 mL deliverable volume of Ebvallo at a concentration of 
2.8 × 107 – 7.3 × 107 viable T cells/mL dispersion for injection. The quantitative information regarding 
actual concentration, HLA profile and patient dose calculation is provided in the Lot Information 
Sheet (LIS) included with the shipper used to transport the medicinal product. 
The total number of vials in each carton (between 1 vial and 6 vials) corresponds to the dosing 
requirement for each individual patient, depending on the patient’s body weight (see sections 4.2 and 
6.5). 
Excipient(s) with known effect 
This medicinal product contains 100 mg dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) per mL. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM  
Dispersion for injection 
A translucent, colourless to slightly yellow cell dispersion. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS  
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
Ebvallo is indicated as monotherapy for treatment of adult and paediatric patients 2 years of age and 
older with relapsed or refractory Epstein-Barr virus positive post-transplant lymphoproliferative 
disease (EBV+ PTLD) who have received at least one prior therapy. For solid organ transplant 
patients, prior therapy includes chemotherapy unless chemotherapy is inappropriate. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2  Posology and method of administration  
Ebvallo should be administered under the supervision of a physician experienced in the treatment of 
cancer in a controlled setting where adequate facilities for handling of adverse reactions, including 
those requiring urgent measures, are available. 
Posology 
Treatment consists of multiple doses for injection containing a dispersion of viable T cells in one or 
more vials.  
The recommended dose of Ebvallo contains 2 × 106 viable T cells per kg of the patient’s body weight. 
Dose calculations 
Patient weight (kg) × target dose (2 × 106 viable T cells/kg) = Viable T cells to be administered 
Viable T cells to be administered ÷ Actual concentration (viable T cells/mL)* = Volume of 
thawed cell dispersion required (mL)**  
*See the accompanying Lot Information Sheet (LIS) and carton for information pertaining to the 
actual concentration of cells per vial. 
**Volume of thawed cell dispersion requires dilution, see section 6.6. 
Note: The viable T-cell concentration on the LIS and carton is the actual concentration of each vial. 
This may be different than the nominal concentration listed on the vial label, which should not be used 
for dose preparation calculations. Each vial contains 1 mL deliverable volume. 
The medicinal product is administered over multiple 35-day cycles, during which patients receive 
Ebvallo on days 1, 8 and 15, followed by observation through day 35. A response is assessed at 
approximately day 28.  
The number of cycles of the medicinal product to be administered is determined by the response to 
treatment shown in Table 1. If a complete or partial response is not obtained, patients may be switched 
to an Ebvallo lot with a different HLA restriction (up to 4 different restrictions) selected from the 
existing product inventory. 
Table 1: Treatment algorithm  
Response observeda 
Complete response (CR) 
Partial response (PR) 
Stable disease (SD) 
Progressive disease (PD) 
Indeterminate response (IR) 
Action  
Administer another cycle of Ebvallo with the same HLA restriction. If the 
patient achieves 2 consecutive CRs (maximal response), no further 
treatment with Ebvallo is recommended.  
Administer another cycle of Ebvallo with the same HLA restriction. If the 
patient achieves 3 consecutive PRs (maximal response), no further 
treatment with Ebvallo is recommended.  
Administer another cycle of Ebvallo with the same HLA restriction. If the 
subsequent cycle results in a second SD, administer Ebvallo with a 
different HLA restriction. 
Administer another cycle of Ebvallo with a different HLA restriction.  
Administer another cycle of Ebvallo with the same HLA restriction. If the 
subsequent cycle results in a second IR, administer Ebvallo with a 
different HLA restriction. 
a Complete response at the end of a cycle followed by partial response or other response at any subsequent cycle is 
considered progressive disease. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Monitoring 
It is recommended to monitor vital signs immediately prior to each Ebvallo injection, within 
10 minutes following the conclusion of the injection and 1 hour after the initiation of the injection (see 
section 4.4).  
Missed dose 
If a patient misses a dose, the missed dose should be given as soon as reasonably possible.  
Special populations 
Elderly  
No dose adjustment is required in patients ≥ 65 years of age (see section 5.1). Ebvallo should be used 
with caution in elderly (see section 4.4). 
Hepatic and renal impairment  
No dose adjustment is required for patients with hepatic or renal impairment (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
Posology and administration in paediatric patients 2 years of age and older are the same as for adult 
patients.  
The safety and efficacy of Ebvallo in paediatric patients below 2 years of age have not yet been 
established. No data are available. 
Method of administration  
Ebvallo is for intravenous use only. 
Administration  
•  Administer Ebvallo as a single dose intravenously after dilution. 
•  Connect the final medicinal product syringe to the patient’s intravenous catheter and inject over 5 
to 10 minutes. 
•  Once Ebvallo is fully dispensed from the syringe, flush the intravenous line with ≥ 10 mL of 
sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection. 
For detailed instructions on preparation, accidental exposure and disposal of the medicinal product, 
see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications  
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use  
Traceability 
The traceability requirements of cell‐based advanced therapy medicinal products must apply. To 
ensure traceability the name of the product, the batch number and the name of the treated patient 
should be kept for a period of 30 years after expiry date of the product. 
Tumour flare reaction (TFR) 
TFR has occurred with Ebvallo use, generally within the first few days after receiving treatment. TFR 
presents as an acute inflammatory reaction involving tumour sites which may include a sudden and 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
painful increase in the tumour size or enlargement of disease-involved lymph nodes. TFR may mimic 
progression of disease.  
Patients with high tumour burden prior to treatment are at risk of severe TFR. Depending on the 
location of the tumour or lymphadenopathy, complications (e.g. respiratory distress and cognitive 
disorders) may arise from mass effect, including compression/obstruction of adjacent anatomic 
structures. Analgesics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or localised radiotherapy 
could be considered prior to Ebvallo administration for those patients in whom the location of the 
tumour could potentially lead to complications. Patients should be closely monitored for signs and 
symptoms of TFR, especially during the first cycle.  
Graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) 
GvHD has been reported after treatment with Ebvallo. This could be related to the decrease or 
discontinuation of immunosuppressive therapies for the treatment of PTLD rather than to a direct 
action of Ebvallo. The benefit of treatment with Ebvallo versus the risk of possible GvHD should be 
considered. Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of GvHD, such as skin rash, 
abnormal liver enzymes in the blood, jaundice, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea and bloody stools. 
Solid organ transplant rejection 
Solid organ transplant rejection has been reported after treatment with Ebvallo. Treatment with 
Ebvallo may increase the risk of rejection in solid organ transplant recipients. This could be related to 
the decrease or discontinuation of immunosuppressive therapies for the treatment of PTLD rather than 
to a direct action of Ebvallo. The benefit of treatment with Ebvallo versus the risk of possible solid 
organ transplant rejection should be considered prior to the start of treatment. Patients should be 
monitored for signs and symptoms of solid organ transplant rejection. 
Bone marrow transplant rejection 
There is a potential risk of bone marrow transplant rejection based on humoral or cell-mediated 
immune reactions. No event of bone marrow transplant rejection has been reported in clinical studies. 
Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of bone marrow transplant rejection. 
Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) 
CRS has been reported after treatment with Ebvallo. Patients should be monitored for signs and 
symptoms of CRS, such as pyrexia, chills, hypotension and hypoxia. Diagnosis of CRS requires 
excluding alternate causes of systemic inflammatory response, including infection. CRS should be 
managed at the physician’s discretion, based on the patient’s clinical presentation. 
Immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS) 
ICANS has been reported after treatment with Ebvallo. Patients should be monitored for signs and 
symptoms of ICANS, such as depressed level of consciousness, confusion, seizures and cerebral 
oedema. Diagnosis of ICANS requires excluding alternate causes. 
Infusion-related reactions 
After injection of Ebvallo, infusion-related reactions such as pyrexia and non-cardiac chest pain have 
been reported. Patients should be monitored for at least 1 hour after treatment for signs and symptoms 
of infusion-related reactions. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis, may occur due to dimethyl sulfoxide 
(DMSO) in Ebvallo. 
Transmission of infectious agents 
Ebvallo is obtained from human donor blood cells. Donors are screened and have tested negative for 
relevant communicable disease agents and diseases, including HBV, HCV and HIV. Although 
tabelecleucel lots are tested for sterility, mycoplasma and adventitious agents, a risk of transmission of 
infectious agents exists.  
Some tabelecleucel lots are manufactured from donors who are cytomegalovirus (CMV) positive. All 
lots are tested to ensure no detection of adventitious agents, including CMV. During clinical 
development, tabelecleucel lots derived from CMV-positive donors were administered to CMV-
negative patients when an appropriate lot derived from a CMV-seronegative donor was unavailable; in 
this subpopulation no seroconversions were observed.  
Healthcare professionals administering Ebvallo must, therefore, monitor patients for signs and 
symptoms of infections after treatment and treat appropriately, if needed. 
Blood, organ, tissue and cell donation 
Patients treated with Ebvallo must not donate blood, organs, tissues and cells for transplantation. 
Sodium content 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per vial, i.e. essentially ‘sodium-
free’. 
Elderly population 
There are only limited data available for the elderly population. Based on available data, the elderly 
population (≥ 65 years of age) may be at increased risk of serious adverse events leading to 
hospitalisation/prolonged hospitalisation, psychiatric disorders, vascular disorders, and infections and 
infestations. Ebvallo should be used with caution in elderly patients. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
No interaction studies have been performed. 
Immunosuppressive and cytotoxic therapies  
Certain concomitant or recently administered medicinal products including chemotherapy (systemic or 
intrathecal), anti-T-cell antibody-based therapies, extracorporeal photopheresis or brentuximab vedotin 
could potentially impact the efficacy of Ebvallo. Ebvallo should only be administered after an 
adequate washout period of such agents. 
For patients receiving chronic corticosteroid therapy, the dose of these drugs should be reduced as 
much as is clinically safe and appropriate; recommended no greater than 1 mg/kg per day of 
prednisone or equivalent. Ebvallo has not been evaluated in patients receiving corticosteroid doses 
greater than 1 mg/kg per day of prednisone or equivalent. 
In clinical studies, patients received ciclosporin, tacrolimus, sirolimus and other immunosuppressive 
therapies at the lowest dose considered clinically safe and appropriate. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CD20-targeting antibodies  
Because in vitro characterisation data demonstrated the absence of CD20 expression on tabelecleucel, 
it is not expected that anti-CD20 antibody treatments will affect tabelecleucel activity. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Pregnancy 
There are no available data with tabelecleucel use in pregnant women. No animal reproductive and 
developmental toxicity studies have been conducted with tabelecleucel. It is not known if tabelecleucel 
has the potential to be transferred to the foetus or can cause foetal harm when administered to a 
pregnant woman. Ebvallo is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing 
potential not using contraception. Pregnant women should be advised on potential risks for the foetus.  
There are insufficient exposure data to provide a recommendation concerning duration of 
contraception following treatment with Ebvallo.  
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether tabelecleucel is excreted in human milk. A risk to the newborns/infants cannot 
be excluded. Breast-feeding women should be advised of potential risks to the breast-fed child. A 
decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from 
tabelecleucel therapy taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of 
therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
There are no data on the effect of tabelecleucel on fertility. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
Ebvallo has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines, e.g. dizziness, fatigue (see 
section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects  
Summary of the safety profile 
The most common adverse reactions were pyrexia (31.1%), diarrhoea (26.2%), fatigue (23.3%), 
nausea (18.4%), anaemia (16.5%), decreased appetite (15.5%), hyponatraemia (15.5%), abdominal 
pain (14.6%), neutrophil count decreased (14.6%), white blood cell count decreased (14.6%), aspartate 
aminotransferase increased (13.6%), constipation (12.6%), alanine aminotransferase increased 
(11.7%), blood alkaline phosphatase increased (11.7%), hypoxia (11.7%), dehydration (10.7%), 
hypotension (10.7%), nasal congestion (10.7%) and rash (10.7%). The most serious adverse reactions 
were tumour flare reaction (1%) and graft-versus-host disease (4.9%). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The safety database is comprised of data from 340 patients (EBV+ PTLD and other EBV-associated 
diseases) from clinical studies, an expanded access protocol, and compassionate use requests. 
Frequencies of adverse reactions were calculated in 103 patients from the ALLELE study and Study 
EBV-CTL-201 for which all events (serious and non-serious) were collected. In the rest of the clinical 
development program, only serious events were collected. Adverse reactions reported from clinical 
trials are presented below in Table 2. These reactions are presented by system organ class and by 
frequency. Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); 
uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000).  
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class (SOC) 
Infections and infestations 
Table 2: Adverse reactions identified with Ebvallo  
Adverse reaction 
Upper respiratory tract infection 
Skin infection 
Tumour pain 
Tumour flare reaction 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and 
unspecified (including cysts and 
polyps) 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
General disorders and administration 
site conditions 
Anaemia 
Febrile neutropenia 
Graft-versus-host diseasea 
Decreased appetite 
Hyponatraemia 
Dehydration 
Hypomagnesaemia 
Hypokalaemia 
Hypocalcaemia 
Confusional state 
Delirium 
Disorientation 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Depressed level of consciousness 
Somnolence 
Peripheral sensory neuropathy 
Tachycardia 
Hypotension 
Hot flush 
Cyanosis 
Hypoxia 
Nasal congestion 
Wheezing 
Pneumonitis 
Upper-airway cough syndrome 
Pulmonary haemorrhage 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea 
Abdominal painb 
Constipation 
Colitis 
Abdominal distension 
Flatulence 
Dyschezia 
Rashc 
Pruritus 
Skin ulcer 
Skin hypopigmentation 
Muscular weakness 
Arthralgia 
Back pain 
Myalgia 
Arthritis 
Joint Stiffness 
Soft tissue necrosis 
Pyrexia 
Fatigue 
Chills 
Chest paind 
Pain 
Localised oedema 
General physical health deterioration 
8 
Frequency 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
 
 
System organ class (SOC) 
Investigations 
Injury, poisoning and procedural 
complications 
Adverse reaction 
Neutrophil count decreased 
White blood cell count decreased 
Aspartate aminotransferase increased 
Alanine aminotransferase increased 
Blood alkaline phosphatase increased 
Lymphocyte count decreased 
Blood creatinine increased 
Blood lactate dehydrogenase increased 
Platelet count decreased 
Blood fibrinogen decreased 
Post procedural oedema 
Frequency 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
a Graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) includes GvHD in gastrointestinal tract, GvHD in liver, rash maculo-papular (skin GvHD) 
b Abdominal pain includes abdominal pain, abdominal discomfort, abdominal pain lower 
c Rash includes rash, rash erythematous, rash maculo-papular, rash pustular 
d Chest pain includes musculoskeletal chest pain, non-cardiac chest pain 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Tumour flare reaction (TFR) 
TFR was reported in 1 patient (1%). The event was Grade 3 and the patient recovered. The onset was 
on the day of dosing and the duration was 60 days. 
Graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) 
GvHD was reported in 5 (4.9%) patients. Two (40%) patients had Grade 1, 1 patient (20%) had Grade 2, 
1 patient (20%) had Grade 3, and 1 (20%) patient had Grade 4 events. No fatal events were reported. 
Four (80%) patients recovered from GvHD. The median time to onset was 42 days (range: 8 to 44 days). 
The median duration was 35 days (range: 7 to 133 days). 
Immunogenicity  
There is potential for immunogenicity with Ebvallo. There is currently no information indicating that 
potential immunogenicity to Ebvallo impacts safety or efficacy. 
Paediatric population 
There are limited data in paediatric patients (see section 5.1). Eight patients were ≥ 2 to < 6 years of 
age, 16 patients were ≥ 6 to < 12 years of age, 17 patients were ≥ 12 to < 18 years of age. Frequency, 
type and severity of adverse reactions in children were similar to adults. The adverse reactions of 
alanine aminotransferase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased and osteomyelitis were 
reported as serious only in paediatric patients.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose  
There are no data regarding overdose with Ebvallo.  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES  
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: not yet assigned, ATC code: not yet assigned 
Mechanism of action 
Ebvallo is an allogeneic, EBV-specific T-cell immunotherapy which targets and eliminates EBV-
infected cells in an HLA-restricted manner. Ebvallo has an equivalent mechanism of action to that 
demonstrated by endogenous circulating T cells in the donors from which the medicinal product is 
derived. The T-cell receptor of each clonal population within Ebvallo recognises an EBV peptide in 
complex with a specific HLA molecule on the surface of target cells (the restricting HLA allele) and 
allows the medicinal product to exert cytotoxic activity against the EBV-infected cells. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Across multiple clinical studies, systemic cytokine levels of IL-1β, IL-2, IL-6 and TNFα did not 
meaningfully change from baseline after administration of Ebvallo. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
ALLELE is an ongoing, multicentre, open-label, single-arm, Phase 3 study in 43 adult and paediatric 
patients with EBV+ PTLD following solid organ transplant (SOT) or haematopoietic cell transplant 
(HCT) after failure of previous therapy. Patients were assigned to prespecified cohorts based on 
transplant type and treatment failure of prior therapy for EBV+ PTLD. The SOT cohort (29 patients) 
consisted of SOT patients who had failed rituximab monotherapy (13 patients) and SOT patients who 
had failed rituximab plus chemotherapy (SOT-R+C, 16 patients). The HCT cohort (14 patients) 
consisted of HCT patients who had failed rituximab. Eligible patients had a prior HCT or SOT 
(kidney, liver, heart, lung, pancreas, small bowel or any combination), a diagnosis of biopsy-proven 
EBV+ PTLD with radiographic measurable disease, and failure of rituximab monotherapy or rituximab 
plus any concurrent or sequentially administered chemotherapy regimen for treatment of EBV+ PTLD. 
The most commonly administered chemotherapy combination was cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin 
hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate and prednisone. Patients with Grade ≥ 2 graft-versus-host disease 
(GvHD), active central nervous system (CNS) PTLD, Burkitt lymphoma, classical Hodgkin 
lymphoma, or any T-cell lymphoma were excluded. Patients received standard prophylactic anti-viral 
therapy until 30 days after the last dose of Ebvallo. Table 3 summarises the demographics and baseline 
characteristics from the SOT-R+C and HCT indicated cohorts. 
Table 3: Summary of demographics and baseline characteristics in ALLELE from cohorts SOT-
R+C and HCT  
Ebvallo SOT EBV+ PTLDa,b 
After rituximab and chemotherapy 
(N = 16) 
Ebvallo HCT EBV+ PTLDa 
After rituximab  
(N = 14) 
Age  
Median years  
(min, max) 
Male, n (%) 
ECOG score (age ≥ 16)c 
patients in the age group  
ECOG < 2 
ECOG ≥ 2 
Missing 
Lansky score (age < 16)c 
patients in the age group  
Lansky < 60 
Lansky ≥ 60 
Elevated LDH (age ≥ 16), n (%)  
39.2  
(16.7, 81.5) 
7 (43.8) 
16 
9 (56.3) 
6 (37.5) 
1 (6.3) 
0 
0 
0 
12 (75.0) 
10 
51.9  
(3.2, 73.2) 
8 (57.1) 
13 
10 (76.9) 
3 (23.1) 
0 
1 
0 
1 (100) 
11 (84.6) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ebvallo SOT EBV+ PTLDa,b 
After rituximab and chemotherapy 
(N = 16) 
Ebvallo HCT EBV+ PTLDa 
After rituximab  
(N = 14) 
1 (6.3) 
6 (37.5) 
8 (50.0) 
1 (6.3) 
PTLD-adapted prognostic indexd (age ≥ 16), n (%)  
Low risk 
Intermediate risk 
High risk 
Unknown 
PTLD morphology/histology, n (%) 
DLBCL 
Othere 
Plasmablastic lymphoma  
Extranodal disease 
Prior therapies 
Median number of prior systemic 
therapies (min, max) 
Rituximab monotherapy, n (%) 
Rituximab monotherapy as first 
line, n (%) 
Chemotherapy-containing 
regimenf, n (%) 
10 (62.5) 
4 (25.0) 
2 (12.5) 
13 (81.3) 
2.0 (1, 5) 
10 (62.2)  
9 (56.3) 
16 (100) 
1 (7.7) 
6 (46.2) 
6 (46.2) 
0 
10 (71.4) 
3 (21.4) 
1 (7.1) 
9 (64.3) 
1.0 (1, 4) 
14 (100) 
14 (100) 
3 (21.4) 
DLBCL = diffuse large B-cell lymphoma; EBV+ PTLD = Epstein-Barr virus positive post-transplant lymphoproliferative 
disease; ECOG = Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group; HCT = haematopoietic cell transplant; LDH = lactate 
dehydrogenase; max = maximum; min = minimum; SOT = solid organ transplant; SOT-R+C = SOT patients who had failed 
rituximab plus chemotherapy 
a Patients received at least one dose of Ebvallo. 
b SOT types included kidney, heart, liver, lung, pancreas, bowel and multiviscera. 
c Percentages for ECOG and Lansky scores were based on the number of patients in the corresponding age group. 
d Disease risk for PTLD patients was assessed at baseline using the PTLD-adapted prognostic index (based on age, ECOG 
score and serum LDH level). 
e Morphologies not clearly DLBCL or plasmablastic lymphoma were categorized as Other and were consistent with PTLD. 
f Chemotherapy regimens could have also been combined with rituximab or other immunotherapy agents.  
The primary efficacy endpoint was objective response rate (ORR) per evaluation by independent 
oncologic response adjudication (IORA), using Lugano classification criteria with lymphoma response 
to immunomodulatory therapy criteria (LYRIC) modification. ORR was obtained following 
administration of Ebvallo with up to 2 different HLA restrictions (one restriction switch). Ebvallo was 
selected for each patient from an existing product inventory based on an appropriate HLA restriction. 
The treatment plan consisted of administration of Ebvallo by intravenous injection at 
2 × 106 viable T cells/kg on days 1, 8 and 15 followed by observation through day 35, during which a 
response was assessed at approximately day 28. The number of cycles of Ebvallo administered to 
patients was determined by the response to treatment as shown in Table 1 (see section 4.2). Seventeen 
(39.5%) patients required treatment with an Ebvallo lot that had a different HLA restriction (restriction 
switch). Of these 17 patients, 15 received one restriction switch, 2 received 2 restriction switches and 
5 (29.4%) patients achieved a first response following the first restriction switch. Table 4 summarises 
efficacy results from the SOT-R+C and HCT indicated cohorts. 
Table 4: Summary of efficacy results in ALLELE from cohorts SOT-R+C and HCT  
Ebvallo SOT EBV+ PTLDa 
After rituximab and chemotherapy 
(N = 16) 
9 (56.3) 
29.9, 80.2 
Objective response rateb, c, n (%) 
95% CI 
Best overall responsec, n (%) 
Complete response 
Partial response 
Stable disease 
Progressive disease 
Not evaluable 
Time to responsec (first complete response or partial response) 
Median (min, max) time to 
5 (31.3) 
4 (25.0) 
0 
4 (25.0) 
3 (18.8) 
1.1 (0.7, 4.1) 
Ebvallo HCT EBV+ PTLDa 
After rituximab  
(N = 14) 
7 (50.0) 
23.0, 77.0 
6 (42.9) 
1 (7.1) 
3 (21.4) 
2 (14.3) 
2 (14.3) 
1.0 (1.0, 4.7) 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
response, months 
Duration of responsec 
Median (min, max) follow-up in 
response, months 
Median DOR, months (95% CI) 
Patients with durable response 
(DOR > 6 months), n  
Median duration of complete 
response, months (95% CI) 
Ebvallo SOT EBV+ PTLDa 
After rituximab and chemotherapy 
(N = 16) 
Ebvallo HCT EBV+ PTLDa 
After rituximab  
(N = 14) 
2.3 (0.8, 15.2) 
15.2 (0.8, 15.2) 
4 
14.1 (6.8, NE) 
15.9 (1.3, 23.3) 
23.0 (15.9, NE) 
6 
23.0 (15.9, NE) 
CI = confidence interval; DOR = duration of response; EBV+ PTLD = Epstein-Barr virus positive post-transplant 
lymphoproliferative disease; HCT = haematopoietic cell transplant; KM = Kaplan-Meier; max = maximum; min = minimum; 
NE = not estimable; SOT = solid organ transplant; SOT-R+C = SOT patients who had failed rituximab plus chemotherapy 
a Patients received at least one dose of Ebvallo. 
b Objective response rate was the proportion of patients who achieved a response (complete response or partial response). 
c Independent oncologic response adjudication (IORA)-assessed response. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
Based on limited data, no overall differences in efficacy were observed between patients ≥ 65 years of 
age and younger. Seventeen patients were ≥ 65 to < 75 years of age, 3 patients were ≥ 75 to < 85 years 
of age, no patients were ≥ 85 years of age. 
Paediatric population  
Paediatric patients with EBV+ PTLD 2 years of age and older were treated with Ebvallo. Eight patients 
were ≥ 2 to < 6 years of age, 16 patients were ≥ 6 to < 12 years of age, 17 patients were ≥ 12 to 
< 18 years of age. Based on limited data, the efficacy and safety results in paediatric patients were 
consistent with those in adults. 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Ebvallo in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of Epstein-Barr virus 
associated post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric 
use). 
This medicinal product has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This means that due to 
the rarity of the disease it has not been possible to obtain complete information on this medicinal 
product. The European Medicines Agency will review any new information which may become 
available every year and this SmPC will be updated as necessary. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties  
Upon administration of Ebvallo, circulating EBV-targeting cytotoxic T lymphocytes show a 
1.33-median fold increase from baseline to peak expansion. Responders demonstrate a 1.74-median 
fold increase whereas non-responders show a 0.67-median fold decrease. The specific timing of this 
expansion varies widely among patients; however, peak expansion has been shown to correlate with 
response to Ebvallo. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ebvallo is an ex vivo expanded T-cell product that is not genetically modified. Hence, the nature and 
the intended use of the product are such that conventional studies including absorption, distribution, 
metabolism and excretion are not applicable.  
Special populations 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
The safety and efficacy of tabelecleucel have not been studied in patients with severe renal or hepatic 
impairment. However, the influence of renal or hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of 
tabelecleucel is considered to be very unlikely.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
Ebvallo is comprised of human T cells that are not genetically modified; therefore, in vitro assays and 
studies in ex vivo models or in vivo models cannot accurately assess and predict the toxicological 
characteristics of this product in humans. Hence, conventional toxicology, carcinogenicity, 
genotoxicity, mutagenicity and reproductive toxicology studies have not been performed with Ebvallo.  
Studies conducted in immunodeficient animal models for EBV+ PTLD revealed no overt signs of 
toxicity (e.g. loss of activity or weight loss) associated with a single dose of Ebvallo. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS  
6.1  List of excipients  
Dimethyl sulfoxide  
Human serum albumin  
Phosphate buffered saline 
6.2 
Incompatibilities  
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life  
5 years when stored in the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen at ≤ -150 °C. The drug product lot 
manufacturing date (MFD) is provided on the vial. The expiry date is provided on the Lot Information 
Sheet (LIS) and carton. 
The medicinal product should be thawed and diluted within 1 hour from the start of thaw. 
Administration must be completed within 3 hours from the start of thaw (see section 6.6).  
Store between 15 °C to 25 °C after thawing and dilution are complete. Protect product from light. Do 
not refreeze. Do not irradiate. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage  
The Ebvallo carton must be stored in the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen at ≤ -150 °C until 
immediately prior to preparation for administration. The liquid nitrogen vapour shipper provided can 
maintain the appropriate temperature from the sealing of the shipper until the scheduled dose. The 
temperature should be monitored regularly. Three temperature excursions up to -80 °C are permittable.  
For storage conditions after thawing and dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Ebvallo is supplied in a cyclo-olefin copolymer 2 mL stoppered vials with a thermoplastic elastomer 
closure containing 1 mL deliverable volume of cell dispersion.  
The carton contains a variable number of vials (between 1 vial and 6 vials) according to the patient-
specific dose required. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling  
Precautions to be taken before handling or administering the medicinal product 
This medicinal product contains human blood cells. Healthcare professionals handling Ebvallo must 
take appropriate precautions (wearing gloves and glasses) to avoid potential transmission of infectious 
diseases.  
Preparation prior to administration 
The patient’s identity must match the patient identifiers (PFPIN and Institution Patient ID) on the 
accompanying Ebvallo Lot Information Sheet (LIS) and carton. Product-patient reconciliation must be 
performed by matching information on the LIS against 1) the carton (matching PFPIN and FDP 
Number) and against 2) the vial label (matching Lot Number and Donor ID). Do not prepare or 
administer Ebvallo if the patient’s identity or the product-patient reconciliation cannot be confirmed. 
Prior to thawing, ensure that the required dose calculations are completed (see section 4.2), all 
materials needed to prepare the dose are available, and the patient is onsite and has been clinically 
evaluated.  
Materials required for dose preparation 
•  Sterile syringes:  
o  Dosing syringe (select a syringe size that can accommodate required diluent [see Prepare 
the diluent] and cell dispersion volume)  
o  Product draw syringe [select a syringe size that can appropriately measure and will 
accommodate the calculated volume of cell dispersion needed (see section 4.2)] 
•  Diluent (sterile, non-pyrogenic multiple electrolytes solution for injection Type 1 pH 7.4) 
•  Aseptic devices for transferring product (18-gauge unfiltered syringe needles, Luer Lock adapter, 
Luer Lock cap) 
Prepare the diluent  
•  Select the appropriate diluent volume (30 mL for patient weight ≤ 40 kg; 50 mL for patient weight 
> 40 kg). 
•  Aseptically draw the selected volume of diluent into the dosing syringe. 
Thawing 
•  The thawing process of Ebvallo can begin after the patient is onsite and has been clinically 
evaluated. 
•  Remove the carton from the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen at ≤ -150 °C. 
•  Frozen vial(s) of Ebvallo should be placed inside a sterile bag during thawing to protect from 
contamination and thawed upright in a 37 °C water bath or dry thawing chamber. 
•  Record the start of thaw time. While the medicinal product thaws, swirl the product vial(s) gently 
until fully thawed by inspection (approximately 2.5 to 15 minutes). Product should be removed 
from the thawing device immediately upon completion of thaw.  
•  Dose preparation must be completed within 1 hour from the start of thaw.  
•  Thawed or prepared product must not be refrozen. Do not irradiate. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Dilution and dose preparation 
•  Gently invert the vial(s) until the cell dispersion is mixed.  
•  Aseptically withdraw the required cell dispersion volume from the provided product vial(s) into 
the product draw syringe using an 18-gauge unfiltered needle (see section 4.2).  
•  Aseptically transfer the cell dispersion from the product draw syringe to the dosing syringe 
• 
(previously filled with diluent). Ensure entire content is transferred from the product draw syringe.  
Inspect the diluted Ebvallo in the dosing syringe: cell dispersion should appear as a translucent, 
hazy solution. If visible clumps appear, continue to gently mix the solution. Small clumps of 
cellular material should disperse with gentle manual mixing.  
•  Maintain Ebvallo between 15 °C to 25 °C during dose preparation and administration. Dose 
preparation must be completed within 1 hour from the start of thaw. Administration must be 
completed within 3 hours from the start of thaw. 
Measures to take in case of accidental exposure 
In case of accidental exposure, local guidelines on handling of human-derived material should be 
followed, which may include washing of the contaminated skin and removal of contaminated clothes. 
Work surfaces and materials which have potentially been in contact with Ebvallo must be 
decontaminated with appropriate disinfectant. 
Precautions to be taken for the disposal of the medicinal product 
Unused medicinal product and all material that has been in contact with Ebvallo (solid and liquid 
waste) must be handled and disposed of as potentially infectious waste in accordance with local 
guidelines on handling of human-derived material. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
PIERRE FABRE MEDICAMENT 
Les Cauquillous 
81500 Lavaur 
France 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1700/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION  
Date of first authorisation: 16 December 2022 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT  
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency https://www.ema.europa.eu. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
ANNEX II  
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
E. 
MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE(S) AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-
AUTHORISATION MEASURES FOR THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL 
CIRCUMSTANCES 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance(s)  
Charles River Laboratories, Inc. 
4600 E. Shelby Drive, Suite 108 
Memphis, TN 38118 
USA 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release  
PIERRE FABRE MEDICAMENT PRODUCTION 
Parc industriel de la Chartreuse 
81100 Castres 
France 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E. 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL 
CIRCUMSTANCES  
This being an approval under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to Article 14(8) of Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004, the MAH shall conduct, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
Description 
In order to ensure adequate monitoring of safety and efficacy of tabelecleucel in 
the treatment of patients with EBV+ PTLD, the MAH shall provide yearly 
updates on any new information concerning the safety and efficacy of 
tabelecleucel. 
Non-interventional post-authorisation safety study (PASS): An Observational, 
Post-authorisation Safety Study to Describe the Safety and Effectiveness of 
Tabelecleucel in Patients with Epstein-Barr Virus-Positive Posttransplant 
Lymphoproliferative Disease in Real-world Setting in Europe. 
In order to further characterise the long-term efficacy and safety of 
tabelecleucel in patients with EBV+ PTLD, the MAH shall provide the final 
results of the ongoing study ATA129-EBV-302: A Multicentre, Open-Label, 
Phase 3 Study of Tabelecleucel for Solid Organ or Allogeneic Haematopoietic 
Cell Transplant Subjects with Epstein-Barr Virus-Associated Post-Transplant 
Lymphoproliferative Disease after Failure of Rituximab or Rituximab and 
Chemotherapy. 
Due date 
Annually (with 
re-assessment) 
Protocol 
submission: 
Within 3 
months of 
marketing 
authorisation 
Study progress 
reports: 
Annually (with 
annual re-
assessment) 
Interim reports: 
With annual 
re-assessment 
Final CSR: 
December 
2027 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III  
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING  
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Ebvallo 2.8 × 107 – 7.3 × 107 cells/mL dispersion for injection 
tabelecleucel (EBV-specific viable T cells) 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
An allogeneic Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-specific T-cell immunotherapy. Each vial contains 1 mL 
deliverable volume at a concentration of 2.8 × 107 – 7.3 × 107 viable T cells/mL dispersion for 
injection. 
This medicine contains cells of human origin. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Excipients: dimethyl sulfoxide, human serum albumin, phosphate buffered saline. See leaflet for 
further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Dispersion for injection  
Carton contains a single dose (between 1 vial to 6 vials) according to the patient-specific dose 
required. Each vial contains 1 mL deliverable volume. 
See actual concentration and Lot Information Sheet (LIS) for patient dose calculation. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use.  
Do not thaw vial(s) until patient is onsite and awaiting dosing. 
Prior to thawing ensure: 
1. Patient identifiers and product-patient reconciliation are confirmed 
2. Dose calculations are complete 
3. Required materials are available 
4. Patient is ready for dosing 
For intravenous use after dilution. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP  
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store frozen in vapour phase of liquid nitrogen at ≤ -150 °C until immediately prior to preparation for 
administration. Do not refreeze.  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
This medicine contains human blood cells. Unused medicine or waste material must be disposed of in 
compliance with the local guidelines on handling of waste of human-derived material. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
PIERRE FABRE MEDICAMENT 
Les Cauquillous 
81500 Lavaur 
France 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1700/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES  
PFPIN: 
Institution Patient ID: 
Lot Number: 
FDP Number: 
Number of Vials: 
Actual Concentration: X.X × 107 viable T cells/mL 
Donor ID: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE  
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE  
Not applicable. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA  
Not applicable. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Ebvallo 2.8 × 107 – 7.3 × 107 cells/mL dispersion for injection 
tabelecleucel (EBV-specific viable T cells) 
IV use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION  
3. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER, DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES  
Lot XXXXXXXXXX 
Donor ID XXXX-XXXX-X 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT  
1 mL 
6. 
OTHER  
MFD 
allogeneic 
24 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE LOT INFORMATION SHEET (LIS) INCLUDED 
WITH EACH SHIPMENT FOR ONE PATIENT  
1. NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Ebvallo 2.8 × 107 – 7.3 × 107 cells/mL dispersion for injection 
tabelecleucel (EBV-specific viable T cells) 
2. STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE  
An allogeneic Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-specific T-cell immunotherapy. Each vial contains 1 mL 
deliverable volume at a concentration of 2.8 × 107 – 7.3 × 107 viable T cells/mL dispersion for 
injection.  
This medicine contains cells of human origin. 
The actual concentration noted below should be used to calculate the patient dose. 
3. CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT, AND DOSE OF THE 
MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
PATIENT DOSE CALCULATION 
Volume of diluent to be used (mL)   _____________________ 
Patient weight (kg)   ____________  
× target dose (2 × 106 viable T cells/kg) =  
Viable T cells to be administered   _____________________ 
÷ 
Actual concentration (viable T cells/mL)   _________________ 
= 
Volume of thawed cell dispersion required (mL)   ____________________ 
4. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Read the package leaflet before use.  
Do not thaw vial(s) until patient is onsite and awaiting dosing. 
Prior to thawing ensure: 
1. Patient identifiers and product-patient reconciliation are confirmed 
2. Dose calculations are complete 
3. Required materials are available 
4. Patient is ready for dosing 
For intravenous use after dilution. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
Save this document and have it available when preparing for administration of Ebvallo. 
6. SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store frozen in vapour phase of liquid nitrogen at ≤ -150 °C until immediately prior to preparation for 
administration. Do not refreeze.  
Transport security and product quality during shipment are monitored through transport and shipper 
service providers. At the time of dose preparation, confirmation of drug product storage at ≤ - 150 °C 
must be performed. Additionally, product-patient reconciliation must be performed by matching 
information on this document against 1) the carton (matching PFPIN and FDP Number) and against 2) 
the vial label (matching Lot Number and Donor ID).  
7. EXPIRY DATE AND OTHER BATCH SPECIFIC INFORMATION  
INFORMATION ON SUPPLIED LOT 
The following lot was manufactured and included in this shipment: 
Lot Number  
Donor ID 
Finished Drug Product (FDP) Number 
Number of Vials 
Actual Concentration (viable T cells/mL) 
Expiry Date 
Donor/Donated Cells Cytomegalovirus 
(CMV) Markers 
IgM Antibodies 
IgG Antibodies 
Nucleic Acid Testing (NAT) 
PRODUCT LOT HLA PROFILE (restrictions in bold red) 
ALLELE 1 
ALLELE 2 
HLA 
A 
B 
C 
DRB1 
DQB1 
8. SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPLICABLE  
This medicine contains human blood cells. Unused medicine or waste material must be disposed of in 
compliance with the local guidelines on handling of waste of human-derived material. 
9. DONATION AND PRODUCT CODES  
PATIENT INFORMATION 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pierre Fabre Patient Identification Number 
(PFPIN) 
Institution Patient Identification  
Patient Weight (kg) 
SEC 
10. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
PIERRE FABRE MEDICAMENT 
Les Cauquillous 
81500 Lavaur 
France 
11. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER  
EU/1/22/1700/001 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET  
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient  
Ebvallo 2.8 × 107 – 7.3 × 107 cells/mL dispersion for injection  
tabelecleucel (EBV-specific viable T cells) 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Ebvallo is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you are given Ebvallo 
3.  How Ebvallo is given 
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Ebvallo 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Ebvallo is and what it is used for 
Ebvallo contains the active substance tabelecleucel. 
Tabelecleucel is an allogeneic T-cell immunotherapeutic. It is called an allogeneic immunotherapeutic 
because the blood cells used to make this medicine come from human donors who are not related to 
the patient who is being treated. Ebvallo is made in a laboratory from T cells (a type of white blood 
cell) from a healthy donor who is immune to the Epstein-Barr virus. These cells have been 
individually selected to match with the patient receiving Ebvallo. Ebvallo is given as an injection into 
a vein.  
Ebvallo is used to treat a rare kind of cancer called Epstein-Barr virus positive post-transplant 
lymphoproliferative disease (EBV+ PTLD) for adults and children 2 years of age and older. Some 
people experience this condition months or years after they have had a transplant. Patients will have 
received treatment with other medicines for this condition, such as monoclonal antibodies or 
chemotherapy, before they are given Ebvallo. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Ebvallo  
You must not be given Ebvallo  
- 
if you are allergic to tabelecleucel or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). If you think you may be allergic, ask your doctor for advice.  
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor or nurse before you are given Ebvallo if:  
• 
you have had a solid organ transplant or bone marrow transplant, so your doctor can monitor 
you for signs and symptoms of transplant rejection. 
you are 65 years of age or older, so your doctor can monitor you for serious side effects. 
Ebvallo should be used with caution in elderly patients. 
• 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Talk to your doctor or nurse after you are given Ebvallo if: 
•  you have signs and symptoms of tumour flare reaction. Depending on the location of the tumour, 
Ebvallo can cause a side effect called tumour flare reaction. The tumour or enlarged lymph nodes 
may become suddenly painful or increase in size and could cause problems for organs next to the 
tumour. Tumour flare reaction generally occurs in the first few days after receiving Ebvallo. Your 
doctor will monitor you after the first few doses to see if your tumour or lymph node could get big 
enough to cause problems. Your doctor may give you other medicines to treat/prevent tumour 
flare reaction. 
•  you have signs and symptoms of graft-versus-host disease (GvHD), such symptoms include skin 
rash, abnormal liver enzymes in the blood, yellowing of the skin, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea and 
bloody stools.  
•  you have signs and symptoms of a serious immune reaction called cytokine release syndrome 
(CRS), such as fever, chills, low blood pressure and shortness of breath. 
•  you have signs and symptoms of a serious immune reaction called immune effector cell-associated 
neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS), such as depressed level of consciousness, confusion, seizures 
and swelling of the brain. 
•  you have signs and symptoms of infusion-related reactions, such as fever. 
An ingredient of Ebvallo called dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) may cause an allergic reaction. Your 
doctor or nurse will monitor you for signs and symptoms of an allergic reaction. See section 2 
“Ebvallo contains sodium and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO)”. 
Ebvallo is tested for the presence of infectious microbes, but a small risk of infection remains. Your 
doctor or nurse will monitor you for signs and symptoms of infections and provide treatment as 
needed. 
After treatment with Ebvallo, you must not donate blood, organs, tissues or cells.  
Other medicines and Ebvallo 
Tell your doctor or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Before you are given Ebvallo, tell your doctor or nurse if you are taking medicines such as 
chemotherapy or corticosteroids. If you are taking chemotherapy, this medicine may affect how well 
Ebvallo works. If you are taking corticosteroids, your doctor will reduce the dose of corticosteroids. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before you are given this medicine. This is because the effects of this medicine 
in pregnant or breast-feeding women are not known, and it may harm your unborn baby or your 
breast-fed child. Ebvallo is not recommended during pregnancy and in women who could become 
pregnant not using contraception. 
• 
If you are pregnant or think you may be pregnant after you have started treatment with Ebvallo, 
talk to your doctor immediately. 
•  Discuss the need for contraception with your doctor. 
•  Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding or plan to do so. Your doctor will then help you decide 
whether to stop breast-feeding or whether to stop taking Ebvallo, considering the benefit of breast-
feeding the baby and the benefit of Ebvallo to the mother. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Driving and using machines  
Ebvallo has minor influence on the ability to drive or use machines. If you experience changes in your 
thinking or level of alertness after being treated with this medicine, do not drive or operate machines 
and tell your doctor immediately. 
Ebvallo contains sodium and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per vial, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’.  
This medicine contains 100 mg DMSO per mL. See Section 2 “Warnings and precautions”. 
3. 
How Ebvallo is given 
Ebvallo will always be given to you by a doctor or nurse in a treatment centre.  
Your doctor or nurse will give you Ebvallo by injection into a vein. This usually takes 5 to 10 minutes 
for each injection. 
Each cycle of treatment consists of 35 days. You will be given 1 injection per week for 3 weeks, 
followed by approximately 2 weeks of observation to see if you will need more than one cycle. Your 
doctor will decide the number of cycles you will receive based on how your disease responds to 
Ebvallo. 
Before you are given Ebvallo 
Your doctor or nurse will monitor your vital signs prior to each injection. 
After you are given Ebvallo 
Your doctor or nurse will monitor your vital signs, including blood pressure, for about 1 hour 
following the injection. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
Serious side effects 
Tell your doctor immediately if you get any of the following side effects after receiving Ebvallo: 
•  Tumour flare reaction with symptoms such as shortness of breath, changes in your thinking or 
level of alertness, pain at the tumour site, tender swollen lymph nodes at the tumour site, low grade 
fever 
•  Graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) with symptoms such as skin rash, abnormal liver enzymes in the 
blood, yellowing of the skin, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea and bloody stools 
Other possible side effects 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
•  Fever 
•  Diarrhoea 
•  Tiredness 
•  Feeling sick (nausea) 
•  Low levels of red blood cells (anaemia) 
•  Decreased appetite 
•  Decreased levels of sodium in the blood 
•  Abdominal pain or discomfort 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Increased liver enzymes in the blood 
Increased levels of the enzyme alkaline phosphatase in the blood 
•  Decreased number of white blood cells (including neutrophils)  
• 
•  Constipation 
• 
•  Decreased oxygen levels 
•  Dehydration 
•  Low blood pressure 
•  Stuffy nose 
•  Skin rash which may be red, bumpy or pus-filled 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
Joint pain, swelling and stiffness 
Increased levels of creatinine in the blood 
Increased levels of lactate dehydrogenase in the blood  
Inflammation of the colon 
•  Dizziness 
•  Headache 
•  Decreased levels of magnesium, potassium or calcium in the blood 
• 
Itching 
•  Chills 
•  Decreased number of white blood cells (lymphocytes) 
•  Decreased number of white blood cells (neutrophils) with fever 
•  Muscular weakness 
• 
• 
•  Wheezing 
•  Confusion and disorientation 
•  Back pain 
•  Muscle pain 
•  Nose and throat infection 
•  Chest pain 
• 
• 
•  Pain 
•  Decreased number of platelets in the blood 
•  Bloating 
•  Delirium 
•  Depressed level of consciousness 
•  Hot flush 
• 
•  Sleepiness 
•  Fast heartbeat 
•  Tumour pain 
•  Decreased levels of fibrinogen in the blood (a protein involved in blood clotting) 
•  Flatulence 
•  Swelling 
•  Skin ulcer 
•  Blue skin colour due to low oxygen levels 
•  Difficult or painful bowel movement 
•  General physical health deterioration 
•  Numbness, tingling or burning sensation in hands or feet 
•  Bleeding in the lungs 
•  Skin discolouration 
•  Skin infection 
•  Destruction of soft tissue 
•  Persistent cough 
Inflammation of the lungs 
32 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store Ebvallo 
Your doctor, pharmacist or nurse is responsible for storing this medicine and disposing of any unused 
product correctly. The following information is intended for healthcare professionals. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date. The expiry date is provided on the Lot Information 
Sheet (LIS) and carton. 
Store Ebvallo frozen in the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen at -150 °C or below until thawed for use.  
The medicine should be thawed and diluted within 1 hour from the start of thaw. Administration must 
be completed within 3 hours from the start of thaw. 
Store between 15 °C to 25 °C after thawing and dilution are complete. Protect product from light. Do 
not refreeze. Do not irradiate. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Ebvallo contains  
- 
Ebvallo contains tabelecleucel at an approximate concentration of 
2.8 × 107 – 7.3 × 107 cells/mL. 
The other ingredients (excipients) are: dimethyl sulfoxide, human serum albumin, phosphate 
buffered saline. See section 2 “Ebvallo contains sodium and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO)”. 
- 
What Ebvallo looks like and contents of the pack 
Ebvallo is a translucent, colourless to slightly yellow cell dispersion for injection. 
Ebvallo is provided in individual patient cartons containing 1 vial to 6 vials according to the patient-
specific dose required. Each vial contains 1 mL of this medicine. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
PIERRE FABRE MEDICAMENT 
Les Cauquillous 
81500 Lavaur 
France 
Manufacturer 
PIERRE FABRE MEDICAMENT PRODUCTION 
Parc industriel de la Chartreuse 
81100 Castres 
France 
This leaflet was last revised in   
This medicine has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This means that because of the 
rarity of this disease, it has been impossible to get complete information on this medicine. The 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
European Medicines Agency will review any new information on this medicine every year and this 
leaflet will be updated as necessary. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
It is important that you read the entire content of this procedure prior to administering Ebvallo. 
Precautions to be taken before handling or administering the medicinal product 
•  This medicinal product contains human blood cells. Healthcare professionals handling Ebvallo 
must take appropriate precautions (wearing gloves and glasses) to avoid potential transmission of 
infectious diseases. 
Preparation prior to administration 
•  The patient’s identity must match the patient identifiers (PFPIN and Institution Patient ID) on the 
accompanying Ebvallo Lot Information Sheet (LIS) and carton. Product-patient reconciliation 
must be performed by matching information on the LIS against 1) the carton (matching PFPIN and 
FDP Number) and against 2) the vial label (matching Lot Number and Donor ID). Do not prepare 
or administer Ebvallo if the patient’s identity or the product-patient reconciliation cannot be 
confirmed. Prior to thawing, ensure that the required dose calculations are completed, all materials 
needed to prepare the dose are available, and the patient is onsite and has been clinically 
evaluated. 
Dose calculations  
•  See the accompanying Lot Information Sheet (LIS) and carton for information pertaining to the 
concentration of cells per vial. 
•  Note: The viable T-cell concentration on the LIS and carton is the actual concentration of each 
vial. This may be different than the nominal concentration listed on the vial label, which should 
not be used for dose preparation calculations. Each vial contains 1 mL deliverable volume.  
Prepare the diluent  
•  Select the appropriate diluent volume (30 mL for patient weight ≤ 40 kg; 50 mL for patient weight 
> 40 kg). 
•  Aseptically draw the selected volume of diluent into the dosing syringe. 
Thawing 
•  The thawing process of Ebvallo can begin after the patient is onsite and has been clinically 
evaluated. 
•  Remove the carton from the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen at ≤ -150 °C. 
•  Frozen vial(s) of Ebvallo should be placed inside a sterile bag during thawing to protect from 
contamination and thawed upright in a 37 °C water bath or dry thawing chamber. 
•  Record the start of thaw time. While the medicinal product thaws, swirl the product vial(s) gently 
until fully thawed by inspection (approximately 2.5 to 15 minutes). Product should be removed 
from the thawing device immediately upon completion of thaw.  
•  Dose preparation must be completed within 1 hour from the start of thaw.  
•  Thawed or prepared product must not be refrozen. Do not irradiate. 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dilution and dose preparation 
•  Gently invert the vial(s) until the cell dispersion is mixed.  
•  Aseptically withdraw the required cell dispersion volume from the provided product vial(s) into 
the product draw syringe using an 18-gauge unfiltered needle.  
•  Aseptically transfer the cell dispersion from the product draw syringe to the dosing syringe 
• 
(previously filled with diluent). Ensure entire content is transferred from the product draw syringe.  
Inspect the diluted Ebvallo in the dosing syringe: cell dispersion should appear as a translucent, 
hazy solution. If visible clumps appear, continue to gently mix the solution. Small clumps of 
cellular material should disperse with gentle manual mixing.  
•  Maintain Ebvallo between 15 °C to 25 °C during dose preparation and administration. Dose 
preparation must be completed within 1 hour from the start of thaw. Administration must be 
completed within 3 hours from the start of thaw. 
Administration 
•  Administer Ebvallo as a single dose intravenously after dilution. 
•  Connect the final medicinal product syringe to the patient’s intravenous catheter and inject over 5 
to 10 minutes. 
•  Once Ebvallo is fully dispensed from the syringe, flush the intravenous line with ≥ 10 mL of 
sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection. 
Measures to take in case of accidental exposure 
In case of accidental exposure, local guidelines on handling of human-derived material should be 
followed, which may include washing of the contaminated skin and removal of contaminated clothes. 
Work surfaces and materials which have potentially been in contact with Ebvallo must be 
decontaminated with appropriate disinfectant. 
Precautions to be taken for the disposal of the medicinal product 
Unused medicinal product and all material that has been in contact with Ebvallo (solid and liquid 
waste) must be handled and disposed of as potentially infectious waste in accordance with local 
guidelines on handling of human-derived material. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
