ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Ebymect 5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets
Ebymect 5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Ebymect 5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets
Each tablet contains dapagliflozin propanediol monohydrate equivalent to 5 mg dapagliflozin and 850 mg 
of metformin hydrochloride.
Ebymect 5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets
Each tablet contains dapagliflozin propanediol monohydrate equivalent to 5 mg dapagliflozin and 
1,000 mg of metformin hydrochloride.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Film-coated tablet (tablet).
Ebymect 5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets
Brown, biconvex, 9.5 x 20 mm oval, film-coated tablets engraved with “5/850” on one side and “1067” 
engraved on the other side.
Ebymect 5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets
Yellow, biconvex, 10.5 x 21.5 mm oval, film-coated tablets engraved with “5/1000” on one side and 
“1069” engraved on the other side.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications 
Ebymect is indicated in adults for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus as an adjunct to diet and 
exercise:


in patients insufficiently controlled on their maximally tolerated dose of metformin alone 
in combination with other medicinal products for the treatment of diabetes in patients insufficiently
controlled with metformin and these medicinal products
in patients already being treated with the combination of dapagliflozin and metformin as separate 
tablets.

For study results with respect to combination of therapies, effects on glycaemic control and cardiovascular 
events, and the populations studied, see sections 4.4, 4.5 and 5.1.
2
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Posology
Adults with normal renal function (glomerular filtration rate [GFR] ≥ 90 mL/min)
The recommended dose is one tablet twice daily. Each tablet contains a fixed dose of dapagliflozin and 
metformin (see section 2).
For patients insufficiently controlled on metformin monotherapy or metformin in combination with other 
medicinal products for the treatment of diabetes
Patients insufficiently controlled on metformin alone or in combination with other medicinal products for 
the treatment of diabetes should receive a total daily dose of Ebymect equivalent to dapagliflozin 10 mg, 
plus the total daily dose of metformin, or the nearest therapeutically appropriate dose, already being taken. 
When Ebymect is used in combination with insulin or an insulin secretagogue such as sulphonylurea, a 
lower dose of insulin or sulphonylurea may be considered to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia (see 
sections 4.5 and 4.8).
For patients switching from separate tablets of dapagliflozin and metformin
Patients switching from separate tablets of dapagliflozin (10 mg total daily dose) and metformin to 
Ebymect should receive the same daily dose of dapagliflozin and metformin already being taken or the 
nearest therapeutically appropriate dose of metformin.
Missed dose
If a dose is missed, it should be taken as soon as the patient remembers. However, a double dose should 
not be taken at the same time. If it is nearly time for the next dose, the missed dose should be skipped.
Special populations
Renal impairment
A GFR should be assessed before initiation of treatment with metformin containing medicinal products 
and at least annually thereafter. In patients at increased risk of further progression of renal impairment and 
in the elderly, renal function should be assessed more frequently, e.g. every 3-6 months.
The maximum daily dose of metformin should preferably be divided into 2-3 daily doses. Factors that may 
increase the risk of lactic acidosis (see section 4.4) should be reviewed before considering initiation of 
metformin in patients with GFR < 60 mL/min.
If no adequate strength of Ebymect is available, individual mono-components should be used instead of 
the fixed dose combination.
Table 1.
Dose in patients with renal impairment
GFR mL/min
Metformin
60-89
45-59
30-44
Maximum daily dose is 3,000 mg.
Dose reduction may be considered in 
relation to declining renal function.
Maximum daily dose is 2,000 mg.
The starting dose is at most half of the 
maximum dose.
Maximum daily dose is 1,000 mg.
The starting dose is at most half of the 
maximum dose.
Dapagliflozin
Maximum daily dose is 10 mg.
Maximum daily dose is 10 mg.
Maximum daily dose is 10 mg.
The glucose lowering efficacy of 
dapagliflozin is reduced.
< 30
Metformin is contraindicated.
Maximum daily dose is 10 mg.
3
Due to limited experience, it is not 
recommended to initiate treatment 
with dapagliflozin in patients with 
GFR < 25 mL/min.
The glucose lowering efficacy of 
dapagliflozin is likely absent.
Hepatic impairment
This medicinal product must not be used in patients with hepatic impairment (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 
5.2).
Elderly (≥ 65 years)
Because metformin is eliminated in part by the kidney, and because elderly patients are more likely to 
have decreased renal function, this medicinal product should be used with caution as age increases. 
Monitoring of renal function is necessary to aid in prevention of metformin-associated lactic acidosis, 
particularly in elderly patients (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of Ebymect in children and adolescents aged 0 to < 18 years have not yet been 
established. No data are available.
Method of administration
Ebymect should be given twice daily with meals to reduce the gastrointestinal adverse reactions associated 
with metformin.
4.3 Contraindications
Ebymect is contraindicated in patients with:
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1;
any type of acute metabolic acidosis (such as lactic acidosis, diabetic ketoacidosis) (see section 4.4);
diabetic pre-coma;
severe renal failure (GFR < 30 mL/min) (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2);
acute conditions with the potential to alter renal function such as:
-
-
-
dehydration,
severe infection,
shock;
acute or chronic disease which may cause tissue hypoxia such as:
-
-
-
cardiac or respiratory failure,
recent myocardial infarction,
shock;
hepatic impairment (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2);
acute alcohol intoxication, alcoholism (see section 4.5).
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Lactic acidosis
Lactic acidosis, a very rare but serious metabolic complication, most often occurs at acute worsening of 
renal function or cardiorespiratory illness or sepsis. Metformin accumulation occurs at acute worsening of 
renal function and increases the risk of lactic acidosis.
4
In case of dehydration (severe diarrhoea or vomiting, fever or reduced fluid intake), metformin should be 
temporarily discontinued and contact with a health care professional is recommended.
Medicinal products that can acutely impair renal function (such as antihypertensives, diuretics and non-
steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs [NSAIDs]) should be initiated with caution in metformin-treated 
patients. Other risk factors for lactic acidosis are excessive alcohol intake, hepatic insufficiency, 
inadequately controlled diabetes, ketosis, prolonged fasting and any conditions associated with hypoxia, as 
well as concomitant use of medicinal products that may cause lactic acidosis (see sections 4.3 and 4.5).
Patients and/or care-givers should be informed on the risk of lactic acidosis. Lactic acidosis is 
characterised by acidotic dyspnoea, abdominal pain, muscle cramps, asthenia and hypothermia followed 
by coma. In case of suspected symptoms, the patient should stop taking Ebymect and seek immediate 
medical attention. Diagnostic laboratory findings are decreased blood pH (< 7.35), increased plasma 
lactate levels above 5 mmol/L, and an increased anion gap and lactate/pyruvate ratio.
Renal function
The glucose lowering efficacy of dapagliflozin is dependent on renal function, and is reduced in patients 
with GFR < 45 mL/min and is likely absent in patients with severe renal impairment (see sections 4.2, 5.1 
and 5.2).
Metformin is excreted by the kidney, and moderate to severe renal insufficiency increases the risk of lactic 
acidosis (see also “Lactic acidosis” in section 4.4). Renal function should be assessed before initiation of 
treatment and regularly thereafter (see section 4.2). Metformin is contraindicated in patients with 
GFR < 30 mL/min and should be temporarily discontinued in the presence of conditions that alter renal 
function (see section 4.3).
Decreased renal function in elderly patients is frequent and asymptomatic. Special caution should be 
exercised in situations where renal function may become impaired, for example when initiating 
anti-hypertensive or diuretic therapy or when starting treatment with a NSAID.
Use in patients at risk for volume depletion and/or hypotension
Due to its mechanism of action, dapagliflozin increases diuresis which may lead to the modest decrease in 
blood pressure observed in clinical studies (see section 5.1). It may be more pronounced in patients with 
high blood glucose concentrations.
Caution should be exercised in patients for whom a dapagliflozin-induced drop in blood pressure could 
pose a risk, such as patients on anti-hypertensive therapy with a history of hypotension or elderly patients.
In case of intercurrent conditions that may lead to volume depletion (e.g. gastrointestinal illness), careful 
monitoring of volume status (e.g. physical examination, blood pressure measurements, laboratory tests 
including haematocrit and electrolytes) is recommended. Temporary interruption of treatment with this 
medicinal product is recommended for patients who develop volume depletion until the depletion is 
corrected (see section 4.8).
Diabetic ketoacidosis
Rare cases of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA), including life-threatening and fatal cases, have been reported 
in patients treated with sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors, including dapagliflozin. In a 
number of cases, the presentation of the condition was atypical with only moderately increased blood 
glucose values, below 14 mmol/L (250 mg/dL). It is not known if DKA is more likely to occur with higher 
doses of dapagliflozin.
5
The risk of diabetic ketoacidosis must be considered in the event of non-specific symptoms such as 
nausea, vomiting, anorexia, abdominal pain, excessive thirst, difficulty breathing, confusion, unusual 
fatigue or sleepiness. Patients should be assessed for ketoacidosis immediately if these symptoms occur, 
regardless of blood glucose level.
In patients where DKA is suspected or diagnosed, treatment with dapagliflozin should be discontinued 
immediately.
Treatment should be interrupted in patients who are hospitalised for major surgical procedures or acute 
serious medical illnesses. Monitoring of ketones is recommended in these patients. Measurement of blood 
ketone levels is preferred to urine. Treatment with dapagliflozin may be restarted when the ketone values 
are normal and the patient’s condition has stabilised.
Before initiating dapagliflozin, factors in the patient history that may predispose to ketoacidosis should be 
considered.
Patients who may be at higher risk of DKA include patients with a low beta-cell function reserve (e.g. 
type 2 diabetes patients with low C-peptide or latent autoimmune diabetes in adults (LADA) or patients 
with a history of pancreatitis), patients with conditions that lead to restricted food intake or severe 
dehydration, patients for whom insulin doses are reduced and patients with increased insulin requirements 
due to acute medical illness, surgery or alcohol abuse. SGLT2 inhibitors should be used with caution in 
these patients.
Restarting SGLT2 inhibitor treatment in patients with previous DKA while on SGLT2 inhibitor treatment 
is not recommended, unless another clear precipitating factor is identified and resolved.
The safety and efficacy of Ebymect in patients with type 1 diabetes have not been established and 
Ebymect should not be used for treatment of patients with type 1 diabetes. In type 1 diabetes mellitus 
studies, DKA was reported with common frequency.
Necrotising fasciitis of the perineum (Fournier’s gangrene)
Post-marketing cases of necrotising fasciitis of the perineum (also known as Fournier’s gangrene) have 
been reported in female and male patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors (see section 4.8). This is a rare but 
serious and potentially life-threatening event that requires urgent surgical intervention and antibiotic 
treatment.
Patients should be advised to seek medical attention if they experience a combination of symptoms of 
pain, tenderness, erythema, or swelling in the genital or perineal area, with fever or malaise. Be aware that 
either uro-genital infection or perineal abscess may precede necrotising fasciitis. If Fournier’s gangrene is 
suspected, Ebymect should be discontinued and prompt treatment (including antibiotics and surgical 
debridement) should be instituted.
Urinary tract infections
Urinary glucose excretion may be associated with an increased risk of urinary tract infection; therefore, 
temporary interruption of treatment should be considered when treating pyelonephritis or urosepsis.
6
Elderly (≥ 65 years)
Elderly patients may be at a greater risk for volume depletion and are more likely to be treated with 
diuretics.
Elderly patients are more likely to have impaired renal function, and/or to be treated with 
anti-hypertensive medicinal products that may cause changes in renal function such as 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE-I) and angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockers (ARB). The 
same recommendations for renal function apply to elderly patients as to all patients (see sections 4.2, 4.4, 
4.8 and 5.1).
Cardiac failure
Experience with dapagliflozin in NYHA class IV is limited.
Lower limb amputations
An increase in cases of lower limb amputation (primarily of the toe) has been observed in ongoing 
long-term, clinical studies with another SGLT2 inhibitor. It is unknown whether this constitutes a class 
effect. Like for all diabetic patients it is important to counsel patients on routine preventative foot care.
Urine laboratory assessments
Due to its mechanism of action, patients taking this medicinal product will test positive for glucose in their 
urine.
Administration of iodinated contrast agents
Intravascular administration of iodinated contrast agents may lead to contrast induced nephropathy, 
resulting in metformin accumulation and increased risk of lactic acidosis. Metformin should be 
discontinued prior to, or at the time of, the imaging procedure and not restarted until at least 48 hours 
after, provided that renal function has been re-evaluated and found to be stable (see sections 4.2 and 4.5).
Surgery
Metformin must be discontinued at the time of surgery with general, spinal or epidural anaesthesia. 
Therapy may be restarted no earlier than 48 hours following surgery or resumption of oral nutrition and 
provided that renal function has been re-evaluated and found to be stable.
Change in clinical status of patients with previously controlled type 2 diabetes
As this medicinal product contains metformin, a patient with type 2 diabetes previously well-controlled on 
it who develops laboratory abnormalities or clinical illness (especially vague and poorly defined illness) 
should be evaluated promptly for evidence of ketoacidosis or lactic acidosis. Evaluation should include 
serum electrolytes and ketones, blood glucose and, if indicated, blood pH, lactate, pyruvate, and 
metformin levels. If acidosis of either form occurs, treatment must be stopped immediately and other 
appropriate corrective measures initiated.
Sodium
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol (23 mg) sodium per tablet, i.e. is essentially “sodium 
free”.
7
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Coadministration of multiple doses of dapagliflozin and metformin does not meaningfully alter the 
pharmacokinetics of either dapagliflozin or metformin in healthy subjects.
No interaction studies have been performed for Ebymect. The following statements reflect the information 
available on the individual active substances.
Dapagliflozin
Pharmacodynamic interactions
Diuretics
This medicinal product may add to the diuretic effect of thiazide and loop diuretics and may increase the 
risk of dehydration and hypotension (see section 4.4).
Insulin and insulin secretagogues
Insulin and insulin secretagogues, such as sulphonylureas, cause hypoglycaemia. Therefore, a lower dose 
of insulin or an insulin secretagogue may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia when used in 
combination with dapagliflozin (see sections 4.2 and 4.8).
Pharmacokinetic interactions
The metabolism of dapagliflozin is primarily via glucuronide conjugation mediated by 
UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1A9 (UGT1A9).
In in vitro studies, dapagliflozin neither inhibited cytochrome P450 (CYP) 1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, 
CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP3A4, nor induced CYP1A2, CYP2B6 or CYP3A4. 
Therefore, this medicinal product is not expected to alter the metabolic clearance of coadministered 
medicinal products that are metabolised by these enzymes.
Effect of other medicinal products on dapagliflozin
Interaction studies conducted in healthy subjects, using mainly a single-dose design, suggest that the 
pharmacokinetics of dapagliflozin are not altered by pioglitazone, sitagliptin, glimepiride, voglibose, 
hydrochlorothiazide, bumetanide, valsartan, or simvastatin.
Following coadministration of dapagliflozin with rifampicin (an inducer of various active transporters and 
drug-metabolising enzymes) a 22% decrease in dapagliflozin systemic exposure (AUC) was observed, but 
with no clinically meaningful effect on 24-hour urinary glucose excretion. No dose adjustment is 
recommended. A clinically relevant effect with other inducers (e.g. carbamazepine, phenytoin, 
phenobarbital) is not expected.
Following coadministration of dapagliflozin with mefenamic acid (an inhibitor of UGT1A9), a 55%
increase in dapagliflozin systemic exposure was seen, but with no clinically meaningful effect on 24-hour 
urinary glucose excretion. No dose adjustment is recommended.
Effect of dapagliflozin on other medicinal products
In interaction studies conducted in healthy subjects, using mainly a single-dose design, dapagliflozin did 
not alter the pharmacokinetics of pioglitazone, sitagliptin, glimepiride, hydrochlorothiazide, bumetanide, 
valsartan, digoxin (a P-gp substrate) or warfarin (S-warfarin, a CYP2C9 substrate), or the anti-coagulatory 
effects of warfarin as measured by INR. Combination of a single dose of dapagliflozin 20 mg and 
simvastatin (a CYP3A4 substrate) resulted in a 19% increase in AUC of simvastatin and 31% increase in 
AUC of simvastatin acid. The increase in simvastatin and simvastatin acid exposures are not considered 
clinically relevant.
8
Interference with 1,5-anhydroglucitol (1,5-AG) assay
Monitoring glycaemic control with 1,5-AG assay is not recommended as measurements of 1,5-AG are 
unreliable in assessing glycaemic control in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors. Use of alternative methods 
to monitor glycaemic control is advised.
Paediatric population
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
Metformin
Concomitant use not recommended
Cationic substances that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion (e.g. cimetidine) may interact with 
metformin by competing for common renal tubular transport systems. A study conducted in seven normal 
healthy volunteers showed that cimetidine, administered as 400 mg twice daily, increased metformin 
systemic exposure (AUC) by 50% and Cmax by 81%. Therefore, close monitoring of glycaemic control, 
dose adjustment within the recommended posology and changes in diabetic treatment should be 
considered when cationic medicinal products that are eliminated by renal tubular secretion are 
coadministered.
Alcohol
Alcohol intoxication is associated with an increased risk of lactic acidosis, particularly in the case of 
fasting, malnutrition or hepatic impairment due to the metformin active substance of this medicinal 
product (see section 4.4). Consumption of alcohol and medicinal products containing alcohol should be 
avoided.
Iodinated contrast agents
Intravascular administration of iodinated contrast agents may lead to contrast induced nephropathy, 
resulting in metformin accumulation and increased risk of lactic acidosis. Metformin must be discontinued 
prior to, or at the time of the imaging procedure and not restarted until at least 48 hours after, provided 
that renal function has been re-evaluated and found to be stable (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).
Combination requiring precautions for use
Glucocorticoids (given by systemic and local routes), beta-2 agonists, and diuretics have intrinsic 
hyperglycaemic activity. The patient should be informed and more frequent blood glucose monitoring 
perfomed, especially at the beginning of treatment with such medicinal products. If necessary, the dose of 
the glucose-lowering medicinal product should be adjusted during therapy with the other medicinal 
product and on its discontinuation.
Some medicinal products can adversely affect renal function which may increase the risk of lactic 
acidosis, e.g. NSAIDs, including selective cyclo-oxygenase (COX) II inhibitors, ACE inhibitors, 
angiotensin II receptor antagonists and diuretics, especially loop diuretics. When starting or using such 
products in combination with metformin, close monitoring of renal function is necessary.
Insulin and insulin secretagogues
Insulin and insulin secretagogues, such as sulphonylureas, cause hypoglycaemia. Therefore, a lower dose 
of insulin or an insulin secretagogue may be required to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia when used in 
combination with metformin (see sections 4.2 and 4.8).
9
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There are no data from the use of Ebymect or dapagliflozin in pregnant women. Studies in rats treated 
with dapagliflozin have shown toxicity to the developing kidney in the time period corresponding to the 
second and third trimesters of human pregnancy (see section 5.3). Therefore, the use of this medicinal 
product is not recommended during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy. A limited amount of 
data from the use of metformin in pregnant women does not indicate an increased risk of congenital 
malformations. Animal studies with metformin do not indicate harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, 
embryonic or foetal development, parturition or postnatal development (see section 5.3).
When the patient plans to become pregnant, and during pregnancy, it is recommended that diabetes is not 
treated with this medicinal product, but insulin be used to maintain blood glucose levels as close to normal 
as possible, to reduce the risk of malformations of the foetus associated with abnormal blood glucose 
levels.
Breast-feeding
It is unknown whether this medicinal product or dapagliflozin (and/or its metabolites) are excreted in 
human milk. Available pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in animals have shown excretion of 
dapagliflozin/metabolites in milk, as well as pharmacologically-mediated effects in nursing offspring (see 
section 5.3). Metformin is excreted in human milk in small amounts. A risk to the newborns/infants cannot 
be excluded.
This medicinal product should not be used while breast-feeding.
Fertility
The effect of this medicinal product or dapagliflozin on fertility in humans has not been studied. In male 
and female rats, dapagliflozin showed no effects on fertility at any dose tested. For metformin, studies in 
animals have not shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3).
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Ebymect has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Patients should be alerted 
to the risk of hypoglycaemia when this medicinal product is used in combination with other glucose-
lowering medicinal products known to cause hypoglycaemia and that dizziness is an adverse reaction 
observed with dapagliflozin (see section 4.8).
4.8 Undesirable effects
Ebymect has been demonstrated to be bioequivalent with coadministered dapagliflozin and metformin 
(see section 5.2). There have been no therapeutic clinical trials conducted with Ebymect tablets.
Dapagliflozin plus metformin
Summary of the safety profile
In an analysis of 5 placebo-controlled dapagliflozin add-on to metformin studies, the safety results were 
similar to that of the pre-specified pooled analysis of 13 placebo-controlled dapagliflozin studies (see 
Dapagliflozin, Summary of the safety profile below). No additional adverse reactions were identified for 
the dapagliflozin plus metformin group compared with those reported for the individual components. In 
10
the separate dapagliflozin add-on to metformin pooled analysis, 623 subjects were treated with 
dapagliflozin 10 mg as add-on to metformin and 523 were treated with placebo plus metformin.
Dapagliflozin
Summary of the safety profile
In the clinical studies in type 2 diabetes, more than 15,000 patients have been treated with dapagliflozin.
The primary assessment of safety and tolerability was conducted in a pre-specified pooled analysis of 
13 short-term (up to 24 weeks) placebo-controlled studies with 2,360 subjects treated with 
dapagliflozin 10 mg and 2,295 treated with placebo.
In the dapagliflozin cardiovascular outcomes study (DECLARE, see section 5.1), 8,574 patients received 
dapagliflozin 10 mg and 8,569 received placebo for a median exposure time of 48 months. In total, there 
were 30,623 patient-years of exposure to dapagliflozin.
The most frequently reported adverse reactions across the clinical studies were genital infections.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The following adverse reactions have been identified in the placebo-controlled dapagliflozin plus 
metformin clinical studies, dapagliflozin clinical studies and metformin clinical studies and post-
marketing experience. None were found to be dose-related. Adverse reactions listed below are classified 
according to frequency and system organ class. Frequency categories are defined according to the 
following convention: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to 
< 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare (< 1/10,000), and not known (cannot be estimated from 
the available data).
Table 2. Adverse reactions
Very common
Common
Uncommon
Rare
Very rare
System organ 
class
Infections and 
infestations
Fungal 
infection**
Vulvovaginitis, 
balanitis and 
related genital 
infections*,b,c
Urinary tract 
infection*,b,d
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders
Hypoglycaemia
(when used 
with SU or 
insulin)b
Nervous system 
disorders
Taste 
disturbancea
Dizziness
Volume 
depletionb,e
Thirst**
Diabetic 
ketoacidosisb,k,l
Gastrointestinal 
disorders
Gastrointestinal 
symptomsa,i
Constipation**
Dry mouth**
Hepatobiliary 
disorders
11
Necrotising 
fasciitis of 
the perineum 
(Fournier's 
gangrene)b,k
Lactic 
acidosis
Vitamin B12 
deficiencya,h
Liver 
function 
disordersa
Hepatitisa
System organ 
class
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders
Musculo-
skeletal and 
connective 
tissue disorders
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders
Reproductive 
system and 
breast disorders
Investigations
Very common
Common
Uncommon
Rare
Very rare
Rashm
Back pain*
Urticariaa
Erythemaa
Pruritusa
Dysuria
Polyuria*,f
Nocturia**
Vulvovaginal 
pruritus**
Pruritus 
genital**
Blood
creatinine
increased 
during initial 
treatment**,b
Blood urea 
increased**
Weight 
decreased**
Haematocrit 
increasedg
Creatinine 
renal clearance 
decreased 
during initial 
treatmentb
Dyslipidaemiaj
aAdverse reaction and frequency categories for metformin are based on information from the metformin Summary of 
Product Characteristics available in the European Union.
bSee corresponding subsection below for additional information.
cVulvovaginitis, balanitis and related genital infections includes, e.g. the predefined preferred terms: vulvovaginal 
mycotic infection, vaginal infection, balanitis, genital infection fungal, vulvovaginal candidiasis, vulvovaginitis, 
balanitis candida, genital candidiasis, genital infection, genital infection male, penile infection, vulvitis, vaginitis 
bacterial, vulval abscess.
dUrinary tract infection includes the following preferred terms, listed in order of frequency reported: urinary tract 
infection, cystitis, Escherichia urinary tract infection, genitourinary tract infection, pyelonephritis, trigonitis, 
urethritis, kidney infection and prostatitis.
eVolume depletion includes, e.g. the predefined preferred terms: dehydration, hypovolaemia, hypotension.
fPolyuria includes the preferred terms: pollakiuria, polyuria, urine output increased.
gMean changes from baseline in haematocrit were 2.30% for dapagliflozin 10 mg versus –0.33% for placebo. 
Haematocrit values > 55% were reported in 1.3% of the subjects treated with dapagliflozin 10 mg versus 0.4% of 
placebo subjects.
hLong-term treatment with metformin has been associated with a decrease in vitamin B12 absorption which may 
very rarely result in clinically significant vitamin B12 deficiency (e.g. megaloblastic anaemia).
iGastrointestinal symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, abdominal pain and loss of appetite occur most 
frequently during initiation of therapy and resolve spontaneously in most cases.
jMean percent change from baseline for dapagliflozin 10 mg versus placebo, respectively, was: total cholesterol 2.5%
versus 0.0%; HDL cholesterol 6.0% versus 2.7%; LDL cholesterol 2.9% versus –1.0%; triglycerides -2.7%
versus -0.7%.
kSee section 4.4.
l Reported in the cardiovascular outcomes study in patients with type 2 diabetes (DECLARE). Frequency is based on 
annual rate.
mAdverse reaction was identified through post-marketing surveillance with the use of dapagliflozin. Rash includes 
the following preferred terms, listed in order of frequency in clinical trials: rash, rash generalised, rash pruritic, rash 
macular, rash maculo-papular, rash pustular, rash vesicular, and rash erythematous. In active- and placebo-
controlled clinical trials (dapagliflozin, N=5936, All control, N=3403), the frequency of rash was similar for 
dapagliflozin (1.4%) and all control (1.4%), respectively.
12
*Reported in ≥ 2% of subjects and ≥ 1% more and at least 3 more subjects treated with dapagliflozin 10 mg 
compared to placebo.
**Reported by the investigator as possibly related, probably related or related to study treatment and reported in 
≥ 0.2% of subjects and ≥ 0.1% more and at least 3 more subjects treated with dapagliflozin 10 mg compared to 
placebo.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Dapagliflozin plus metformin
Hypoglycaemia
In studies with dapagliflozin in add-on combination with metformin, episodes of minor hypoglycaemia 
were reported at similar frequencies in the group treated with dapagliflozin 10 mg plus metformin (6.9%) 
and in the placebo plus metformin group (5.5%). No events of major hypoglycaemia were reported.
Similar observations were made for the combination of dapagliflozin with metformin in drug-naive
patients.
In an add-on to metformin and a sulphonylurea study, up to 24 weeks, episodes of minor hypoglycaemia 
were reported in 12.8% of subjects who received dapagliflozin 10 mg plus metformin and a sulphonylurea 
and in 3.7% of subjects who received placebo plus metformin and a sulphonylurea. No events of major 
hypoglycaemia were reported.
Dapagliflozin
Vulvovaginitis, balanitis and related genital infections
In the 13-study safety pool, vulvovaginitis, balanitis and related genital infections were reported in 5.5% 
and 0.6% of subjects who received dapagliflozin 10 mg and placebo, respectively. Most infections were 
mild to moderate, and subjects responded to an initial course of standard treatment and rarely resulted in 
discontinuation from dapagliflozin treatment. These infections were more frequent in females (8.4% and 
1.2% for dapagliflozin and placebo, respectively), and subjects with a prior history were more likely to 
have a recurrent infection.
In the DECLARE study, the number of patients with serious adverse events of genital infections were few 
and balanced: 2 patients in each of the dapagliflozin and placebo groups.
Cases of phimosis/acquired phimosis have been reported with dapagliflozin concurrent with genital
infections and in some cases, circumcision was required.
Necrotising fasciitis of the perineum (Fournier’s gangrene)
Cases of Fournier’s gangrene have been reported postmarketing in patients taking SGLT2 inhibitors, 
including dapagliflozin (see section 4.4).
In the DECLARE study with 17,160 type 2 diabetes mellitus patients and a median exposure time of 
48 months, a total of 6 cases of Fournier’s gangrene were reported, one in the dapagliflozin-treated group 
and 5 in the placebo group.
Hypoglycaemia
The frequency of hypoglycaemia depended on the type of background therapy used in each study.
For studies of dapagliflozin as add-on to metformin or as add-on to sitagliptin (with or without 
metformin), the frequency of episodes of minor hypoglycaemia was similar (< 5%) between treatment 
groups, including placebo up to 102 weeks of treatment. Across all studies, events of major 
hypoglycaemia were uncommon and comparable between the groups treated with dapagliflozin or 
placebo. In a study with add-on insulin therapy, higher rates of hypoglycaemia were observed (see 
section 4.5).
13
In an add-on to insulin study up to 104 weeks, episodes of major hypoglycaemia were reported in 0.5%
and 1.0% of subjects in dapagliflozin 10 mg plus insulin at weeks 24 and 104, respectively, and in 0.5% of 
subjects treated with placebo plus insulin groups at weeks 24 and 104. At weeks 24 and 104, episodes of 
minor hypoglycaemia were reported, respectively, in 40.3% and 53.1% of subjects who received 
dapagliflozin 10 mg plus insulin and in 34.0% and 41.6% of the subjects who received placebo plus 
insulin.
In the DECLARE study, no increased risk of major hypoglycaemia was observed with dapagliflozin 
therapy compared with placebo. Events of major hypoglycaemia were reported in 58 (0.7%) patients 
treated with dapagliflozin and 83 (1.0%) patients treated with placebo.
Volume depletion
In the 13-study safety pool, reactions suggestive of volume depletion (including, reports of dehydration, 
hypovolaemia or hypotension) were reported in 1.1% and 0.7% of subjects who received 
dapagliflozin 10 mg and placebo, respectively; serious reactions occurred in < 0.2% of subjects balanced 
between dapagliflozin 10 mg and placebo (see section 4.4).
In the DECLARE study, the numbers of patients with events suggestive of volume depletion were 
balanced between treatment groups: 213 (2.5%) and 207 (2.4%) in the dapagliflozin and placebo groups, 
respectively. Serious adverse events were reported in 81 (0.9%) and 70 (0.8%) in the dapagliflozin and 
placebo group, respectively. Events were generally balanced between treatment groups across subgroups 
of age, diuretic use, blood pressure and ACE-I/ARB use. In patients with eGFR < 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 at 
baseline, there were 19 events of serious adverse events suggestive of volume depletion in the 
dapagliflozin group and 13 events in the placebo group.
Diabetic ketoacidosis
In the DECLARE study, with a median exposure time of 48 months, events of DKA were reported in 
27 patients in the dapagliflozin 10 mg group and 12 patients in the placebo group. The events occurred 
evenly distributed over the study period. Of the 27 patients with DKA events in the dapagliflozin group, 
22 had concomitant insulin treatment at the time of the event. Precipitating factors for DKA were as 
expected in a type 2 diabetes mellitus population (see section 4.4).
Urinary tract infections
In the 13-study safety pool, urinary tract infections were more frequently reported for dapagliflozin 
compared with placebo (4.7% versus 3.5%, respectively; see section 4.4). Most infections were mild to 
moderate, and subjects responded to an initial course of standard treatment and rarely resulted in 
discontinuation from dapagliflozin treatment. These infections were more frequent in females, and 
subjects with a prior history were more likely to have a recurrent infection.
In the DECLARE study, serious events of urinary tract infections were reported less frequently for 
dapagliflozin 10 mg compared with placebo, 79 (0.9%) events versus 109 (1.3%) events, respectively.
Increased creatinine
Adverse reactions related to increased creatinine were grouped (e.g. decreased renal creatinine clearance, 
renal impairment, increased blood creatinine and decreased glomerular filtration rate). This grouping of 
reactions was reported in 3.2% and 1.8% of patients who received dapagliflozin 10 mg and placebo, 
respectively. In patients with normal renal function or mild renal impairment (baseline 
eGFR ≥ 60 mL/min/1.73 m2) this grouping of reactions was reported in 1.3% and 0.8% of patients who 
received dapagliflozin 10 mg and placebo, respectively. These reactions were more common in patients 
with baseline eGFR ≥ 30 and < 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 (18.5% dapagliflozin 10 mg versus 9.3% placebo).
14
Further evaluation of patients who had renal-related adverse events showed that most had serum creatinine 
changes of ≤ 44 micromoles/L (≤ 0.5 mg/dL) from baseline. The increases in creatinine were generally 
transient during continuous treatment or reversible after discontinuation of treatment.
In the DECLARE study, including elderly patients and patients with renal impairment (eGFR less than 
60 mL/min/1.73 m2), eGFR decreased over time in both treatment groups. At 1 year, mean eGFR was 
slightly lower, and at 4 years, mean eGFR was slightly higher in the dapagliflozin group compared with 
the placebo group.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are 
asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
Removal of dapagliflozin by haemodialysis has not been studied. The most effective method to remove 
metformin and lactate is haemodialysis.
Dapagliflozin
Dapagliflozin did not show any toxicity in healthy subjects at single oral doses up to 500 mg (50 times the 
maximum recommended human dose). These subjects had detectable glucose in the urine for a 
dose-related period of time (at least 5 days for the 500 mg dose), with no reports of dehydration, 
hypotension or electrolyte imbalance, and with no clinically meaningful effect on QTc interval. The 
incidence of hypoglycaemia was similar to placebo. In clinical studies where once daily doses of up to 
100 mg (10 times the maximum recommended human dose) were administered for 2 weeks in healthy 
subjects and type 2 diabetes subjects, the incidence of hypoglycaemia was slightly higher than placebo 
and was not dose-related. Rates of adverse events including dehydration or hypotension were similar to 
placebo, and there were no clinically meaningful dose-related changes in laboratory parameters, including 
serum electrolytes and biomarkers of renal function.
In the event of an overdose, appropriate supportive treatment should be initiated as dictated by the 
patient’s clinical status.
Metformin
Hypoglycaemia has not been seen with metformin doses of up to 85 g, although lactic acidosis has 
occurred in such circumstances. High overdose or concomitant risks of metformin may lead to lactic 
acidosis. Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency and must be treated in hospital (see section 4.4). The 
most effective method to remove lactate and metformin is haemodialysis.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Drugs used in diabetes, combinations of oral blood glucose lowering drugs, 
ATC code: A10BD15
15
Mechanism of action
Ebymect combines two anti-hyperglycaemic medicinal products with different and complementary 
mechanisms of action to improve glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes: dapagliflozin, a 
SGLT2 inhibitor, and metformin hydrochloride, a member of the biguanide class.
Dapagliflozin
Dapagliflozin is a highly potent (Ki: 0.55 nM), selective and reversible inhibitor of SGLT2.
Inhibition of SGLT2 by dapagliflozin reduces reabsorption of glucose from the glomerular filtrate in the 
proximal renal tubule with a concomitant reduction in sodium reabsorption leading to urinary excretion of 
glucose and osmotic diuresis. Dapagliflozin therefore increases the delivery of sodium to the distal tubule 
which increases tubuloglomerular feedback and reduces intraglomerular pressure. This combined with 
osmotic diuresis leads to a reduction in volume overload, reduced blood pressure, and lower preload and 
afterload, which may have beneficial effects on cardiac remodelling and preserve renal function. Other 
effects include an increase in haematocrit and reduction in body weight. The cardiac and renal benefits of 
dapagliflozin are not solely dependent on the blood glucose-lowering effect.
Dapagliflozin improves both fasting and post-prandial plasma glucose levels by reducing renal glucose 
reabsorption leading to urinary glucose excretion. This glucose excretion (glucuretic effect) is observed 
after the first dose, is continuous over the 24-hour dosing interval and is sustained for the duration of 
treatment. The amount of glucose removed by the kidney through this mechanism is dependent upon the 
blood glucose concentration and GFR. Thus, in subjects with normal blood glucose, dapagliflozin has a 
low propensity to cause hypoglycaemia. Dapagliflozin does not impair normal endogenous glucose 
production in response to hypoglycaemia. Dapagliflozin acts independently of insulin secretion and 
insulin action. Improvement in homeostasis model assessment for beta cell function (HOMA beta-cell) 
has been observed in clinical studies with dapagliflozin.
The SGLT2 is selectively expressed in the kidney. Dapagliflozin does not inhibit other glucose 
transporters important for glucose transport into peripheral tissues and is > 1,400 times more selective for 
SGLT2 versus SGLT1, the major transporter in the gut responsible for glucose absorption.
Metformin
Metformin is a biguanide with anti-hyperglycaemic effects, lowering both basal and postprandial plasma 
glucose. It does not stimulate insulin secretion and therefore does not produce hypoglycaemia.
by reduction of hepatic glucose production by inhibiting gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis;
by modestly increasing insulin sensitivity, improving peripheral glucose uptake and utilisation in 
Metformin may act via three mechanisms:
-
-
muscle;
-
by delaying intestinal glucose absorption.
Metformin stimulates intracellular glycogen synthesis by acting on glycogen synthase. Metformin 
increases the transport capacity of specific types of membrane glucose transporters (GLUT-1 and 
GLUT-4).
Pharmacodynamic effects
Dapagliflozin
Increases in the amount of glucose excreted in the urine were observed in healthy subjects and in subjects 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus following the administration of dapagliflozin. Approximately 70 g of glucose 
was excreted in the urine per day (corresponding to 280 kcal/day) at a dapagliflozin dose of 10 mg/day in 
16
subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus for 12 weeks. Evidence of sustained glucose excretion was seen in 
subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus given dapagliflozin 10 mg/day for up to 2 years.
This urinary glucose excretion with dapagliflozin also results in osmotic diuresis and increases in urinary 
volume in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Urinary volume increases in subjects with type 2 
diabetes mellitus treated with dapagliflozin 10 mg were sustained at 12 weeks and amounted to 
approximately 375 mL/day. The increase in urinary volume was associated with a small and transient 
increase in urinary sodium excretion that was not associated with changes in serum sodium 
concentrations.
Urinary uric acid excretion was also increased transiently (for 3-7 days) and accompanied by a sustained 
reduction in serum uric acid concentration. At 24 weeks, reductions in serum uric acid concentrations 
ranged from -48.3 to -18.3 micromoles/L (-0.87 to -0.33 mg/dL).
The pharmacodynamics of 5 mg dapagliflozin twice daily and 10 mg dapagliflozin once daily were 
compared in healthy subjects. The steady-state inhibition of renal glucose reabsorption and the amount of 
urinary glucose excretion over a 24-hour period was the same for both dosing regimens.
Metformin
In humans, independently of its action on glycaemia, metformin has favourable effects on lipid 
metabolism. This has been shown at therapeutic doses in controlled, medium-term or long-term clinical 
studies: metformin reduces total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol and triglyceride levels.
In clinical studies, use of metformin was associated with either a stable body weight or modest weight 
loss.
Clinical efficacy and safety
Both improvement of glycaemic control and reduction of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality are an 
integral part of the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
The coadministration of dapagliflozin and metformin has been studied in subjects, with type 2 diabetes,
inadequately controlled on diet and exercise alone, and in subjects inadequately controlled on metformin 
alone or in combination with a DPP-4 inhibitor (sitagliptin), sulphonylurea or insulin. Treatment with 
dapagliflozin plus metformin at all doses produced clinically relevant and statistically significant 
improvements in HbA1c and fasting plasma glucose (FPG) compared with control. Clinically relevant 
glycaemic effects were sustained in long-term extensions up to 104 weeks. HbA1c reductions were seen 
across subgroups including gender, age, race, duration of disease, and baseline body mass index (BMI). 
Additionally, at week 24, clinically relevant and statistically significant improvements in mean changes 
from baseline in body weight were seen with dapagliflozin and metformin combination treatments 
compared with control. Body weight reductions were sustained in long-term extensions up to 208 weeks. 
Additionally, dapagliflozin twice-daily treatment added to metformin was shown to be effective and safe 
in type 2 diabetic subjects. Furthermore, two 12-week, placebo-controlled studies were conducted in 
patients with inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes and hypertension.
In the DECLARE study, dapagliflozin as adjunct to standard care therapy reduced cardiovascular and 
renal events in patients with type 2 diabetes.
Glycaemic control
Add-on combination therapy
In a 52-week, active-controlled non-inferiority study (with 52- and 104-week extension periods), 
dapagliflozin 10 mg was evaluated as add-on therapy to metformin compared with a sulphonylurea 
(glipizide) as add-on therapy to metformin in subjects with inadequate glycaemic control (HbA1c > 6.5%
17
and ≤ 10%). The results showed a similar mean reduction in HbA1c from baseline to week 52, compared 
with glipizide, thus demonstrating non-inferiority (Table 3). At week 104, adjusted mean change from 
baseline in HbA1c was -0.32% for dapagliflozin and -0.14% for glipizide, respectively. At week 208, 
adjusted mean change from baseline in HbA1c was -0.10% for dapagliflozin and 0.20% for glipizide, 
respectively. At 52, 104 and 208 weeks, a significantly lower proportion of subjects in the group treated 
with dapagliflozin (3.5%, 4.3% and 5.0%, respectively) experienced at least one event of hypoglycaemia 
compared with the group treated with glipizide (40.8%, 47% and 50.0%, respectively). The proportion of 
subjects remaining in the study at week 104 and week 208 was 56.2% and 39.7% for the group treated 
with dapagliflozin and 50.0% and 34.6% for the group treated with glipizide.
Table 3. Results at week 52 (LOCFa) in an active-controlled study comparing dapagliflozin with 
glipizide as add-on to metformin
Parameter
Nb
HbA1c (%)
Baseline (mean)
Change from baselinec
Difference from glipizide + metforminc
    (95% CI)
Body weight (kg)
Baseline (mean)
Change from baselinec
Difference from glipizide + metforminc
    (95% CI)
Dapagliflozin
+ metformin
400
7.69
-0.52
0.00d
(-0.11, 0.11)
88.44
-3.22
-4.65*
(-5.14, -4.17)
Glipizide
+ metformin
401
7.74
-0.52
87.60
1.44
aLOCF: Last observation carried forward
bRandomised and treated subjects with baseline and at least 1 post-baseline efficacy measurement
cLeast squares mean adjusted for baseline value
dNon-inferior to glipizide + metformin
*p-value < 0.0001
Dapagliflozin as an add-on with either metformin alone, metformin in combination with sitagliptin, 
sulphonylurea or insulin (with or without additional oral glucose-lowering medicinal products, including 
metformin) resulted in statistically significant mean reductions in HbA1c at 24 weeks compared with 
subjects receiving placebo (p < 0.0001; Tables 4, 5 and 6). Dapagliflozin 5 mg twice daily provided 
statistically significant reductions in HbA1c at 16 weeks compared with subjects receiving placebo 
(p < 0.0001; Table 4).
The reductions in HbA1c observed at week 24 were sustained in the add-on combination studies. For the 
add-on to metformin study, HbA1c reductions were sustained through week 102 (-0.78% and 0.02%
adjusted mean change from baseline for dapagliflozin 10 mg and placebo, respectively). At week 48 for 
metformin plus sitagliptin, the adjusted mean change from baseline for dapagliflozin 10 mg and placebo 
was -0.44% and 0.15%, respectively. At week 104 for insulin (with or without additional oral 
glucose-lowering medicinal products, including metformin), the HbA1c reductions were -0.71%
and -0.06% adjusted mean change from baseline for dapagliflozin 10 mg and placebo, respectively. At 
weeks 48 and 104, the insulin dose remained stable compared to baseline in subjects treated with 
dapagliflozin 10 mg at an average dose of 76 IU/day. In the placebo group there was an increase of 
10.5 IU/day and 18.3 IU/day from baseline (mean average dose of 84 and 92 IU/day) at weeks 48 and 104, 
respectively. The proportion of subjects remaining in the study at week 104 was 72.4% for the group 
treated with dapagliflozin 10 mg and 54.8% for the placebo group.
In a separate analysis of subjects on insulin plus metformin, similar reductions in HbA1c to those seen in 
the total study population were seen in subjects treated with dapagliflozin with insulin plus metformin. At 
18
week 24, HbA1c change from baseline in subjects treated with dapagliflozin plus insulin with metformin 
was -0.93%.
Table 4. Results of (LOCFa) placebo-controlled studies up to 24 weeks of dapagliflozin in add-on 
combination with metformin or metformin plus sitagliptin
Metformin1
Add-on combination
Metformin1, b
Metformin1 + sitagliptin2
Nc
HbA1c (%)
Baseline 
(mean)
Change from
baselined
Difference 
from
placebod
    (95% CI)
Subjects (%) 
achieving:
HbA1c < 7%
Adjusted for
baseline
Body weight
(kg)
Baseline 
(mean)
Change from
baselined
Difference from
placebod
    (95% CI)
Dapagliflozin
10 mg QD
135
Placebo
QD
137
Dapagliflozin
5 mg BID
99
Placebo
BID
101
Dapagliflozin
10 mg QD
113
Placebo
QD
113
8.11
-0.30
7.92
-0.84
-0.54*
7.79
-0.65
-0.35*
7.94
-0.30
7.87
-0.02
7.80
-0.43
-0.40*
(-0.74, -0.34)
(-0.52, -0.18)
(-0.58, -0.23)
40.6**
25.9
38.2**
(N=90)
21.4
(N=87)
86.28
-2.86
-1.97*
87.74
-0.89
88.82
-0.86
93.62
-2.74
-1.88***
93.95
-2.35
-1.87*
94.17
-0.47
(-2.63, -1.31)
(-2.52, -1.24)
(-2.61, -1.13)
Abbreviations: QD: once daily; BID: twice daily
1Metformin ≥ 1500 mg/day
2Sitagliptin 100 mg/day
aLOCF: Last observation (prior to rescue for rescued subjects) carried forward
bPlacebo-controlled 16-week study
cAll randomised subjects who took at least one dose of double-blind study medicinal product during the short-term 
double-blind period
dLeast squares mean adjusted for baseline value
*p-value < 0.0001 versus placebo + oral glucose-lowering medicinal product
**p-value < 0.05 versus placebo + oral glucose-lowering medicinal product
***The percent change in body weight was analysed as a key secondary endpoint (p < 0.0001); absolute body 
weight change (in kg) was analysed with a nominal p-value (p < 0.0001).
19
Table 5. Results of a 24-week placebo-controlled study of dapagliflozin in add-on combination with 
metformin and a sulphonylurea
Add-on combination
Sulphonylurea
+ metformin1
Placebo
108
8.24
-0.17
Dapagliflozin
10 mg
108
8.08
-0.86
-0.69*
(-0.89, -0.49)
31.8*
11.1
Na
HbA1c (%)b
Baseline (mean)
Change from Baselinec
Difference from Placeboc
    (95% CI)
Subjects (%) achieving:
HbA1c < 7%
Adjusted for baseline
Body weight (kg)
Baseline (mean)
Change from Baselinec
Difference from Placeboc
    (95% CI)
88.57
-2.65
-2.07*
(-2.79, -1.35)
1Metformin (immediate- or extended-release formulations) ≥ 1500 mg/day plus maximum tolerated dose, which 
90.07
-0.58
must be at least half maximum dose, of a sulphonylurea for at least 8 weeks prior to enrolment.
aRandomised and treated patients with baseline and at least 1 post-baseline efficacy measurement.
bHbA1c analysed using LRM (Longitudinal repeated measures analysis)
cLeast squares mean adjusted for baseline value
*p-value < 0.0001 versus placebo + oral glucose-lowering medicinal product(s)
20
Table 6. Results at week 24 (LOCFa) in a placebo-controlled study of dapagliflozin in combination 
with insulin (alone or with oral glucose-lowering medicinal products, including metformin)
Parameter
Nb
HbA1c (%)
Baseline (mean)
Change from baselinec
Difference from placeboc
    (95% CI)
Body weight (kg)
Baseline (mean)
Change from baselinec
Difference from placeboc
    (95% CI)
Mean daily insulin dose (IU)1
Baseline (mean)
Change from baselinec
Difference from placeboc
    (95% CI)
Subjects with mean daily 
insulin dose reduction of at 
least 10% (%)
Dapagliflozin 10 mg
+ insulin
± oral glucose-lowering 
medicinal products2
194
Placebo
+ insulin
± oral glucose-lowering 
medicinal products2
193
8.58
-0.90
-0.60*
(-0.74, -0.45)
94.63
-1.67
-1.68*
(-2.19, -1.18)
77.96
-1.16
-6.23*
(-8.84, -3.63)
19.7**
8.46
-0.30
94.21
0.02
73.96
5.08
11.0
aLOCF: Last observation (prior to or on the date of the first insulin up-titration, if needed) carried forward
bAll randomised subjects who took at least one dose of double-blind study medicinal product during the short-term 
double-blind period
cLeast squares mean adjusted for baseline value and presence of oral glucose-lowering medicinal product
*p-value < 0.0001 versus placebo + insulin ± oral glucose-lowering medicinal product
**p-value < 0.05 versus placebo + insulin ± oral glucose-lowering medicinal product
1Up-titration of insulin regimens (including short-acting, intermediate, and basal insulin) was only allowed if 
subjects met pre-defined FPG criteria.
2Fifty percent of subjects were on insulin monotherapy at baseline; 50% were on 1 or 2 oral glucose-lowering 
medicinal product(s) in addition to insulin: Of this latter group, 80% were on metformin alone, 12% were on 
metformin plus sulphonylurea therapy, and the rest were on other oral glucose-lowering medicinal products.
In combination with metformin in drug-naive patients
A total of 1,236 drug-naive patients with inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes (HbA1c ≥ 7.5% and 
≤ 12%) participated in two active-controlled studies of 24 weeks duration to evaluate the efficacy and 
safety of dapagliflozin (5 mg or 10 mg) in combination with metformin in drug-naive patients versus 
therapy with the monocomponents.
Treatment with dapagliflozin 10 mg in combination with metformin (up to 2,000 mg per day) provided 
significant improvements in HbA1c compared to the individual components (Table 7), and led to greater 
reductions in FPG (compared to the individual components) and body weight (compared to metformin).
21
Table 7. Results at week 24 (LOCFa) in an active-controlled study of dapagliflozin and metformin
combination therapy in drug-naive patients
Parameter
Nb
HbA1c (%)
Dapagliflozin 10 mg 
+
metformin
211b
Baseline (mean)
Change from baselinec
Difference from dapagliflozinc
    (95% CI)
Difference from metforminc
    (95% CI)
9.10
-1.98
-0.53*
(-0.74, -0.32)
-0.54*
(-0.75, -0.33)
Dapagliflozin 10 mg
Metformin
208b
9.03
-1.44
219b
9.03
-1.45
-0.01
(-0.22, 0.20)
aLOCF: last observation (prior to rescue for rescued patients) carried forward.
bAll randomised patients who took at least one dose of double-blind study medicinal product during the short-term
double-blind period.
cLeast squares mean adjusted for baseline value.
*p-value < 0.0001.
Combination therapy with prolonged-release exenatide
In a 28-week, double-blind, active comparator-controlled study, the combination of dapagliflozin and 
prolonged-release exenatide (a GLP-1 receptor agonist) was compared to dapagliflozin alone and 
prolonged-release exenatide alone in subjects with inadequate glycaemic control on metformin alone 
(HbA1c ≥ 8% and ≤ 12%). All treatment groups had a reduction in HbA1c compared to baseline. The 
combination treatment with dapagliflozin 10 mg and prolonged-release exenatide group showed superior 
reductions in HbA1c from baseline compared to dapagliflozin alone and prolonged-release exenatide 
alone (Table 8).
22
Table 8. Results of one 28-week trial of dapagliflozin and prolonged-release exenatide versus 
dapagliflozin alone and prolonged-release exenatide alone, in combination with metformin (intent to 
treat patients)
Dapagliflozin 10 mg 
QD
+
prolonged-release 
exenatide 2 mg QW
Dapagliflozin 10 mg 
QD
+
placebo QW
Prolonged-release 
exenatide 2 mg
QW
+
placebo QD
228
9.29
-1.98
44.7
92.13
-3.55
230
9.25
-1.39
227
9.26
-1.60
-0.59*
(-0.84, -0.34)
-0.38**
(-0.63, -0.13)
19.1
90.87
-2.22
26.9
89.12
-1.56
-1.33*
(-2.12, -0.55)
-2.00*
(-2.79, -1.20)
Parameter
N
HbA1c (%)
Baseline (mean)
Change from baselinea
Mean difference in change 
from baseline between 
combination and single active 
agent (95% CI)
Subjects (%) achieving 
HbA1c 7%
Body weight (kg)
Baseline (mean)
Change from baseline a
Mean difference in change 
from baseline between 
combination and single active 
agent (95% CI)
QD=once daily, QW=once weekly, N=number of patients, CI=confidence interval.
aAdjusted least squares means (LS Means) and treatment group difference(s) in the change from baseline values 
at week 28 are modelled using a mixed model with repeated measures (MMRM) including treatment, region, 
baseline HbA1c stratum (< 9.0% or ≥ 9.0%), week, and treatment by week interaction as fixed factors, and 
baseline value as a covariate.
*p < 0.001, **p < 0.01.
P-values are all adjusted p-values for multiplicity.
Analyses exclude measurements post rescue therapy and post premature discontinuation of study medicinal 
product.
Fasting plasma glucose
Treatment with dapagliflozin as an add-on to either metformin alone (dapagliflozin 10 mg QD or 
dapagliflozin 5 mg BID) or metformin plus sitagliptin, sulphonylurea or insulin resulted in statistically 
significant reductions in FPG (-1.90 to -1.20 mmol/L [-34.2 to -21.7 mg/dL]) compared with placebo 
(-0.58 to 0.18 mmol/L [-10.4 to 3.3 mg/dL]) at week 16 (5 mg BID) or week 24. This effect was observed 
at week 1 of treatment and maintained in studies extended through week 104.
Combination therapy of dapagliflozin 10 mg and prolonged-release exenatide resulted in significantly 
greater reductions in FPG at week 28: -3.66 mmol/L (-65.8 mg/dL), compared to -2.73 mmol/L 
(-49.2 mg/dL) for dapagliflozin alone (p < 0.001) and -2.54 mmol/L (-45.8 mg/dL) for exenatide alone 
(p < 0.001).
In a dedicated study in diabetic patients with an eGFR ≥ 45 to < 60 mL/min/1.73 m2, treatment with 
dapagliflozin demonstrated reductions in FPG at week 24: -1.19 mmol/L (-21.46 mg/dL) compared 
to -0.27 mmol/L (-4.87 mg/dL) for placebo (p=0.001).
23
Post-prandial glucose
Treatment with dapagliflozin 10 mg as an add-on to sitagliptin plus metformin resulted in reductions in 
2-hour post-prandial glucose at 24 weeks that were maintained up to week 48.
Combination therapy of dapagliflozin 10 mg and prolonged-release exenatide resulted in significantly 
greater reductions in 2-hour post-prandial glucose at week 28 compared to either agent alone.
Body weight
Dapagliflozin as an add-on to metformin alone or metformin plus sitagliptin, sulphonylurea or insulin 
(with or without additional oral glucose-lowering medicinal products, including metformin) resulted in 
statistically significant body weight reduction up to 24 weeks (p < 0.0001, Tables 4, 5 and 6). These 
effects were sustained in longer-term trials. At 48 weeks, the difference for dapagliflozin as add-on to 
metformin plus sitagliptin compared with placebo was -2.07 kg. At 102 weeks, the difference for 
dapagliflozin as add-on to metformin compared with placebo or as add-on to insulin compared with 
placebo was -2.14 and -2.88 kg, respectively.
As an add-on therapy to metformin in an active-controlled non-inferiority study, dapagliflozin resulted in 
a statistically significant body weight change compared with glipizide of -4.65 kg at 52 weeks 
(p < 0.0001, Table 3) that was sustained at 104 and 208 weeks (-5.06 kg and -4.38 kg, respectively).
The combination of dapagliflozin 10 mg and prolonged-release exenatide demonstrated significantly 
greater weight reductions compared to either agent alone (Table 8).
A 24-week study in 182 diabetic subjects using dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) to evaluate body 
composition demonstrated reductions with dapagliflozin 10 mg plus metformin compared with placebo 
plus metformin, respectively, in body weight and body fat mass as measured by DXA rather than lean 
tissue or fluid loss. Treatment with dapagliflozin 10 mg plus metformin showed a numerical decrease in 
visceral adipose tissue compared with placebo plus metformin treatment in a magnetic resonance imaging 
substudy.
Blood pressure
In a pre-specified pooled analysis of 13 placebo-controlled studies, treatment with dapagliflozin 10 mg 
resulted in a systolic blood pressure change from baseline of -3.7 mmHg and diastolic blood pressure 
of -1.8 mmHg versus -0.5 mmHg systolic and -0.5 mmHg diastolic blood pressure for placebo group at 
week 24. Similar reductions were observed at up to 104 weeks.
Combination therapy of dapagliflozin 10 mg and prolonged-release exenatide resulted in a significantly 
greater reduction in systolic blood pressure at week 28 (-4.3 mmHg) compared to dapagliflozin alone 
(-1.8 mmHg, p < 0.05) and prolonged-release exenatide alone (-1.2 mmHg, p < 0.01).
In two 12-week, placebo-controlled studies a total of 1,062 patients with inadequately controlled 
type 2 diabetes and hypertension (despite pre-existing stable treatment with an ACE-I or ARB in one 
study and an ACE-I or ARB plus one additional antihypertensive treatment in another study) were treated 
with dapagliflozin 10 mg or placebo. At week 12 for both studies, dapagliflozin 10 mg plus usual 
antidiabetic treatment provided improvement in HbA1c and decreased the placebo-corrected systolic 
blood pressure on average by 3.1 and 4.3 mmHg, respectively.
In a dedicated study in diabetic patients with an eGFR ≥ 45 to < 60 mL/min/1.73 m2, treatment with 
dapagliflozin demonstrated reductions in seated systolic blood pressure at week 24: -4.8 mmHg compared 
to -1.7 mmHg for placebo (p < 0.05).
24
Patients with baseline HbA1c ≥ 9%
In a pre-specified analysis of subjects with baseline HbA1c ≥ 9.0%, treatment with dapagliflozin 10 mg 
resulted in statistically significant reductions in HbA1c at week 24 as an add-on to metformin (adjusted 
mean change from baseline: -1.32% and -0.53% for dapagliflozin and placebo, respectively).
Glycaemic control in patients with moderate renal impairment CKD 3A 
(eGFR ≥ 45 to < 60 mL/min/1.73 m2)
The efficacy of dapagliflozin was assessed in a dedicated study in diabetic patients with an eGFR ≥ 45 to
< 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 who had inadequate glycaemic control on usual care. Treatment with dapagliflozin
resulted in reductions in HbA1c and body weight compared with placebo (Table 9).
Table 9. Results at week 24 of a placebo-controlled study of dapagliflozin in diabetic patients with 
an eGFR ≥ 45 to < 60 mL/min/1.73 m2
Nb
HbA1c (%)
Baseline (mean)
Change from baselineb
Difference from placebob
    (95% CI)
Body weight (kg)
Baseline (mean)
Percent change from baselinec
Difference in percent change from placeboc
    (95% CI)
Dapagliflozina
10 mg
159
8.35
-0.37
-0.34*
(-0.53, -0.15)
92.51
-3.42
-1.43*
(-2.15, -0.69)
Placeboa
161
8.03
-0.03
88.30
-2.02
a Metformin or metformin hydrochloride were part of the usual care in 69.4% and 64.0% of the patients for the 
dapagliflozin and placebo groups, respectively.
b Least squares mean adjusted for baseline value
c Derived from least squares mean adjusted for baseline value
* p < 0.001
Cardiovascular and renal outcomes
Dapagliflozin Effect on Cardiovascular Events (DECLARE) was an international, multicentre, 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical study conducted to determine the effect of 
dapagliflozin compared with placebo on cardiovascular outcomes when added to current background 
therapy. All patients had type 2 diabetes mellitus and either at least two additional cardiovascular risk 
factors (age ≥ 55 years in men or ≥ 60 years in women and one or more of dyslipidaemia, hypertension or 
current tobacco use) or established cardiovascular disease.
Of 17,160 randomised patients, 6,974 (40.6%) had established cardiovascular disease and 10,186 (59.4%) 
did not have established cardiovascular disease. 8,582 patients were randomised to dapagliflozin 10 mg 
and 8,578 to placebo, and were followed for a median of 4.2 years.
The mean age of the study population was 63.9 years, 37.4% were female. In total, 22.4% had had 
diabetes for ≤ 5 years, mean duration of diabetes was 11.9 years. Mean HbA1c was 8.3% and mean BMI 
was 32.1 kg/m2. 
At baseline, 10.0% of patients had a history of heart failure. Mean eGFR was 85.2 mL/min/1.73 m2, 7.4% 
of patients had eGFR < 60 mL/min/1.73 m2, and 30.3% of patients had micro- or macroalbuminuria (urine 
albumin to creatinine ratio [UACR] ≥ 30 to ≤ 300 mg/g or > 300 mg/g, respectively).
25
Most patients (98%) used one or more diabetic medicinal products at baseline, including metformin
(82%), insulin (41%) and sulfonylurea (43%).
The primary endpoints were time to first event of the composite of cardiovascular death, myocardial 
infarction or ischaemic stroke (MACE) and time to first event of the composite of hospitalisation for heart 
failure or cardiovascular death. The secondary endpoints were a renal composite endpoint and all-cause 
mortality.
Major adverse cardiovascular events
Dapagliflozin 10 mg demonstrated non-inferiority versus placebo for the composite of cardiovascular 
death, myocardial infarction or ischaemic stroke (one-sided p < 0.001).
Heart failure or cardiovascular death
Dapagliflozin 10 mg demonstrated superiority versus placebo in preventing the composite of 
hospitalisation for heart failure or cardiovascular death (Figure 1). The difference in treatment effect was 
driven by hospitalisation for heart failure, with no difference in cardiovascular death (Figure 2).
The treatment benefit of dapagliflozin over placebo was observed both in patients with and without 
established cardiovascular disease, with and without heart failure at baseline, and was consistent across 
key subgroups, including age, gender, renal function (eGFR) and region.
Figure 1: Time to first occurrence of hospitalisation for heart failure or cardiovascular death
Patients at risk is the number of patients at risk at the beginning of the period. 
HR=Hazard ratio CI=Confidence interval. 
Results on primary and secondary endpoints are displayed in Figure 2. Superiority of dapagliflozin over 
placebo was not demonstrated for MACE (p=0.172). The renal composite endpoint and all-cause mortality 
were therefore not tested as part of the confirmatory testing procedure.
26
Figure 2: Treatment effects for the primary composite endpoints and their components, and the 
secondary endpoints and components
Renal composite endpoint defined as: sustained confirmed ≥ 40% decrease in eGFR to eGFR < 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 and/or end-
stage renal disease (dialysis ≥ 90 days or kidney transplantation, sustained confirmed eGFR < 15 mL/min/1.73 m2) and/or renal or 
cardiovascular death.
p-values are two-sided. p-values for the secondary endpoints and for single components are nominal. Time to first event was
analysed in a Cox proportional hazards model. The number of first events for the single components are the actual number of first 
events for each component and does not add up to the number of events in the composite endpoint.
CI=confidence interval.
Nephropathy
Dapagliflozin reduced the incidence of events of the composite of confirmed sustained eGFR decrease, 
end-stage renal disease, renal or cardiovascular death. The difference between groups was driven by 
reductions in events of the renal components; sustained eGFR decrease, end-stage renal disease and renal 
death (Figure 2).
The hazard ratio for time to nephropathy (sustained eGFR decrease, end-stage renal disease and renal 
death) was 0.53 (95% CI 0.43, 0.66) for dapagliflozin versus placebo.
In addition, dapagliflozin reduced the new onset of sustained albuminuria (hazard ratio 0.79 
[95% CI 0.72, 0.87]) and led to greater regression of macroalbuminuria (hazard ratio 1.82 
[95% CI 1.51, 2.20]) compared with placebo.
Metformin
The prospective randomised (UKPDS) study has established the long-term benefit of intensive blood 
glucose control in type 2 diabetes. Analysis of the results for overweight patients treated with metformin 
after failure of diet alone showed:
-
a significant reduction of the absolute risk of any diabetes-related complication in the metformin 
group (29.8 events/1,000 patient-years) versus diet alone (43.3 events/1,000 patient-years), 
p=0.0023, and versus the combined sulphonylurea and insulin monotherapy groups 
(40.1 events/1,000 patient-years), p=0.0034;
a significant reduction of the absolute risk of any diabetes-related mortality: metformin 
7.5 events/1,000 patient-years, diet alone 12.7 events/1,000 patient-years, p=0.017;
-
27
-
-
a significant reduction of the absolute risk of overall mortality: metformin 
13.5 events/1,000 patient-years versus diet alone 20.6 events/1,000 patient-years, (p=0.011), and 
versus the combined sulphonylurea and insulin monotherapy groups 18.9 events/1,000 patient-years 
(p=0.021);
a significant reduction in the absolute risk of myocardial infarction: metformin 
11 events/1,000 patient-years, diet alone 18 events/1,000 patient-years, (p=0.01).
Paediatric population
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with Ebymect
in all subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of type 2 diabetes (see section 4.2 for 
information on paediatric use).
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
Ebymect combination tablets are considered to be bioequivalent to coadministration of corresponding 
doses of dapagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride administered together as individual tablets.
The pharmacokinetics of 5 mg dapagliflozin twice daily and 10 mg dapagliflozin once daily were 
compared in healthy subjects. Administration of 5 mg dapagliflozin twice daily gave similar overall 
exposures (AUCss) over a 24-hour period as 10 mg dapagliflozin administered once daily. As expected, 
dapagliflozin 5 mg administered twice daily compared with 10 mg dapagliflozin once daily resulted in 
lower peak dapagliflozin plasma concentrations (Cmax) and higher trough plasma dapagliflozin 
concentrations (Cmin).
Interaction with food
The administration of this medicinal product in healthy volunteers after a high fat meal compared to after 
the fasted state resulted in the same extent of exposure for both dapagliflozin and metformin. The meal 
resulted in a delay of 1 to 2 hours in the peak concentrations and a decrease in the maximum plasma 
concentration of 29% of dapagliflozin and 17% of metformin. These changes are not considered to be 
clinically meaningful.
Paediatric population
Pharmacokinetics in the paediatric population have not been studied.
The following statements reflect the pharmacokinetic properties of the individual active substances of this 
medicinal product.
Dapagliflozin
Absorption
Dapagliflozin was rapidly and well absorbed after oral administration. Maximum dapagliflozin plasma 
concentrations (Cmax) were usually attained within 2 hours after administration in the fasted state. 
Geometric mean steady-state dapagliflozin Cmax and AUCτ values following once daily 10 mg doses of 
dapagliflozin were 158 ng/mL and 628 ng h/mL, respectively. The absolute oral bioavailability of 
dapagliflozin following the administration of a 10 mg dose is 78%.
Distribution
Dapagliflozin is approximately 91% protein bound. Protein binding was not altered in various disease 
states (e.g. renal or hepatic impairment). The mean steady-state volume of distribution of dapagliflozin 
was 118 liters.
28
Biotransformation
Dapagliflozin is extensively metabolised, primarily to yield dapagliflozin 3-O-glucuronide, which is an 
inactive metabolite. Dapagliflozin 3-O-glucuronide or other metabolites do not contribute to the 
glucose-lowering effects. The formation of dapagliflozin 3-O-glucuronide is mediated by UGT1A9, an 
enzyme present in the liver and kidney, and CYP-mediated metabolism was a minor clearance pathway in 
humans.
Elimination
The mean plasma terminal half-life (t1/2) for dapagliflozin was 12.9 hours following a single oral dose of 
dapagliflozin 10 mg to healthy subjects. The mean total systemic clearance of dapagliflozin administered 
intravenously was 207 mL/min. Dapagliflozin and related metabolites are primarily eliminated via urinary 
excretion with less than 2% as unchanged dapagliflozin. After administration of a 50 mg 
[14C]-dapagliflozin dose, 96% was recovered, 75% in urine and 21% in faeces. In faeces, approximately 
15% of the dose was excreted as parent drug.
Linearity
Dapagliflozin exposure increased proportional to the increment in dapagliflozin dose over the range of 
0.1 to 500 mg and its pharmacokinetics did not change with time upon repeated daily dosing for up to 
24 weeks.
Special populations
Renal impairment
At steady-state (20 mg once-daily dapagliflozin for 7 days), subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus and 
mild, moderate or severe renal impairment (as determined by iohexol plasma clearance) had mean 
systemic exposures of dapagliflozin of 32%, 60% and 87% higher, respectively, than those of subjects 
with type 2 diabetes mellitus and normal renal function. The steady-state 24-hour urinary glucose 
excretion was highly dependent on renal function and 85, 52, 18 and 11 g of glucose/day was excreted by 
subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus and normal renal function or mild, moderate or severe renal 
impairment, respectively. The impact of haemodialysis on dapagliflozin exposure is not known.
Hepatic impairment
In subjects with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh classes A and B), mean Cmax and AUC 
of dapagliflozin were up to 12% and 36% higher, respectively, compared with healthy matched control 
subjects. These differences were not considered to be clinically meaningful. In subjects with severe 
hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C) mean Cmax and AUC of dapagliflozin were 40% and 67% higher 
than matched healthy controls, respectively.
Elderly (≥ 65 years)
There is no clinically meaningful increase in exposure based on age alone in subjects up to 70 years old. 
However, an increased exposure due to age-related decrease in renal function can be expected. There are 
insufficient data to draw conclusions regarding exposure in patients > 70 years old.
Gender
The mean dapagliflozin AUCss in females was estimated to be about 22% higher than in males.
Race
There were no clinically relevant differences in systemic exposures between White, Black or Asian races.
Body weight
Dapagliflozin exposure was found to decrease with increased weight. Consequently, low-weight patients 
may have somewhat increased exposure and patients with high weight somewhat decreased exposure. 
However, the differences in exposure were not considered clinically meaningful.
29
Paediatric population
Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics (glucosuria) in children with type 2 diabetes mellitus aged 
10-17 years were similar to those observed in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus.
Metformin
Absorption
After an oral dose of metformin, tmax is reached in 2.5 h. Absolute bioavailability of a 500 mg or 850 mg 
metformin tablet is approximately 50-60% in healthy subjects. After an oral dose, the non-absorbed 
fraction recovered in faeces was 20-30%.
After oral administration, metformin absorption is saturable and incomplete. It is assumed that the 
pharmacokinetics of metformin absorption is non-linear. At the usual metformin doses and dosing 
schedules, steady-state plasma concentrations are reached within 24-48 hours and are generally less than 
1 μg/mL. In controlled clinical trials, maximum metformin plasma levels (Cmax) did not exceed 5 μg/mL, 
even at maximum doses.
Distribution
Plasma protein binding is negligible. Metformin partitions into erythrocytes. The blood peak is lower than 
the plasma peak and appears at approximately the same time. The red blood cells most likely represent a 
secondary compartment of distribution. The mean Vd ranged between 63-276 L.
Biotransformation
Metformin is excreted unchanged in the urine. No metabolites have been identified in humans.
Elimination
Renal clearance of metformin is > 400 mL/min, indicating that metformin is eliminated by glomerular 
filtration and tubular secretion. Following an oral dose, the apparent terminal elimination half-life is 
approximately 6.5 hours.
Special populations
Renal impairment
In patients with decreased renal function (based on measured creatinine clearance), the plasma and blood 
half-life of metformin is prolonged and the renal clearance is decreased in proportion to the decrease in 
creatinine clearance, leading to increased levels of metformin in plasma.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Coadministration of dapagliflozin and metformin
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of repeated dose 
toxicity.
The following statements reflect the preclinical safety data of the individual active substances of Ebymect.
Dapagliflozin
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential and fertility. Dapagliflozin did 
not induce tumours in either mice or rats at any of the doses evaluated in two-year carcinogenicity studies.
30
Reproductive and developmental toxicity
Direct administration of dapagliflozin to weanling juvenile rats and indirect exposure during late 
pregnancy (time periods corresponding to the second and third trimesters of pregnancy with respect to 
human renal maturation) and lactation are each associated with increased incidence and/or severity of 
renal pelvic and tubular dilatations in progeny.
In a juvenile toxicity study, when dapagliflozin was dosed directly to young rats from postnatal day 21 
until postnatal day 90, renal pelvic and tubular dilatations were reported at all dose levels; pup exposures 
at the lowest dose tested were ≥ 15 times the maximum recommended human dose. These findings were 
associated with dose-related increases in kidney weight and macroscopic kidney enlargement observed at 
all doses. The renal pelvic and tubular dilatations observed in juvenile animals did not fully reverse within 
the approximate 1-month recovery period.
In a separate study of pre- and postnatal development, maternal rats were dosed from gestation day 6 
through postnatal day 21, and pups were indirectly exposed in utero and throughout lactation. (A satellite 
study was conducted to assess dapagliflozin exposures in milk and pups.) Increased incidence or severity 
of renal pelvic dilatation was observed in adult offspring of treated dams, although only at the highest 
dose tested (associated maternal and pup dapagliflozin exposures were 1,415 times and 137 times, 
respectively, the human values at the maximum recommended human dose). Additional developmental 
toxicity was limited to dose-related reductions in pup body weights, and observed only at doses 
≥ 15 mg/kg/day (associated with pup exposures that are ≥ 29 times the human values at the maximum 
recommended human dose). Maternal toxicity was evident only at the highest dose tested, and limited to 
transient reductions in body weight and food consumption at dose. The no observed adverse effect level 
(NOAEL) for developmental toxicity, the lowest dose tested, is associated with a maternal systemic 
exposure multiple that is approximately 19 times the human value at the maximum recommended human 
dose.
In additional studies of embryo-foetal development in rats and rabbits, dapagliflozin was administered for 
intervals coinciding with the major periods of organogenesis in each species. Neither maternal nor 
developmental toxicities were observed in rabbits at any dose tested; the highest dose tested is associated 
with a systemic exposure multiple of approximately 1,191 times the maximum recommended human dose. 
In rats, dapagliflozin was neither embryolethal nor teratogenic at exposures up to 1,441 times the 
maximum recommended human dose.
Metformin
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential, toxicity to reproduction and 
development.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Tablet core
Hydroxypropyl cellulose (E463)
Microcrystalline cellulose (E460(i))
Magnesium stearate (E470b)
Sodium starch glycolate (type A)
31
Film-coating
Ebymect 5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets
Poly(vinyl alcohol) (E1203)
Macrogol (3350) (E1521)
Talc (E553b)
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Iron oxide yellow (E172)
Iron oxide red (E172)
Ebymect 5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets
Poly(vinyl alcohol) (E1203)
Macrogol (3350) (E1521)
Talc (E553b)
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Iron oxide yellow (E172)
6.2
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3
Shelf life
3 years
6.4
Special precautions for storage
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
PVC/PCTFE/Alu blister.
Pack sizes
14, 28, 56, and 196 (2 packs of 98) film-coated tablets in non-perforated calendar blisters of 14 tablets.
60 film-coated tablets in non-perforated blisters of 10 tablets.
60x1 film-coated tablets in perforated unit dose blisters.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
32
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
Ebymect 5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets
EU/1/15/1051/001 5 mg/850 mg 14 tablets
EU/1/15/1051/002 5 mg/850 mg 28 tablets
EU/1/15/1051/003 5 mg/850 mg 56 tablets
EU/1/15/1051/004 5 mg/850 mg 60 tablets
EU/1/15/1051/005 5 mg/850 mg 60 x 1 tablet (unit dose)
EU/1/15/1051/006 5 mg/850 mg 196 (2 x 98) tablets
Ebymect 5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets
EU/1/15/1051/007 5 mg/1000 mg 14 tablets
EU/1/15/1051/008 5 mg/1000 mg 28 tablets
EU/1/15/1051/009 5 mg/1000 mg 56 tablets
EU/1/15/1051/010 5 mg/1000 mg 60 tablets
EU/1/15/1051/011 5 mg/1000 mg 60 x 1 tablet (unit dose)
EU/1/15/1051/012 5 mg/1000 mg 196 (2 x 98) tablets
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 16 November 2015
Date of latest renewal: 25 August 2020
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
33
A. MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
ANNEX II
B.
C.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE 
USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
34
A. MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release
AstraZeneca AB
Gärtunavägen
SE-152 57 Södertälje
Sweden
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
C.

OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE 
USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT

Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and 
interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and 
any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:


At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
35
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
36
A. LABELLING
37
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Ebymect 5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets
dapagliflozin/metformin hydrochloride
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains dapagliflozin propanediol monohydrate equivalent to 5 mg dapagliflozin and 850 mg 
of metformin hydrochloride.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
film-coated tablet
14 film-coated tablets
28 film-coated tablets
56 film-coated tablets
60 film-coated tablets
60xl film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
38
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/15/1051/001 5 mg/850 mg 14 tablets
EU/1/15/1051/002 5 mg/850 mg 28 tablets
EU/1/15/1051/003 5 mg/850 mg 56 tablets
EU/1/15/1051/004 5 mg/850 mg 60 tablets
EU/1/15/1051/005 5 mg/850 mg 60 x 1 tablet (unit dose)
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
ebymect 5 mg/850 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER  2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER  HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
39
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Ebymect 5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets
dapagliflozin/metformin hydrochloride
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains dapagliflozin propanediol monohydrate equivalent to 5 mg dapagliflozin and 850 mg 
of metformin hydrochloride.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
film-coated tablet
196 (2 packs of 98) film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
40
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/15/1051/006 5 mg/850 mg 196 (2 x 98) tablets
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
ebymect 5 mg/850 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER  2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER  HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
41
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE INTERMEDIATE PACKAGING
INNER CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Ebymect 5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets
dapagliflozin/metformin hydrochloride
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains dapagliflozin propanediol monohydrate equivalent to 5 mg dapagliflozin and 850 mg 
of metformin hydrochloride.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
film-coated tablet
98 film-coated tablets. Can’t be sold separately.
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
42
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/15/1051/006 5 mg/850 mg 196 (2 x 98) tablets
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
ebymect 5 mg/850 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER  2D BARCODE
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER  HUMAN READABLE DATA
43
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
UNIT DOSE BLISTERS (PERFORATED)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Ebymect 5 mg/850 mg tablets
dapagliflozin/metformin HCl
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
44
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
BLISTERS (NON-PERFORATED) - 10 tablets blister
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Ebymect 5 mg/850 mg tablets
dapagliflozin/metformin HCl
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
{Sun/Moon symbol}
45
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
CALENDAR BLISTERS (NON-PERFORATED) - 14 tablets blister
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Ebymect 5 mg/850 mg tablets
dapagliflozin/metformin HCl
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
Mon. Tue. Wed. Thu. Fri. Sat. Sun.
{Sun/Moon symbol}
46
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Ebymect 5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets
dapagliflozin/metformin hydrochloride
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains dapagliflozin propanediol monohydrate equivalent to 5 mg dapagliflozin and 
1,000 mg of metformin hydrochloride.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
film-coated tablet
14 film-coated tablets
28 film-coated tablets
56 film-coated tablets
60 film-coated tablets
60x1 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
47
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/15/1051/007 5 mg/1000 mg 14 tablets
EU/1/15/1051/008 5 mg/1000 mg 28 tablets
EU/1/15/1051/009 5 mg/1000 mg 56 tablets
EU/1/15/1051/010 5 mg/1000 mg 60 tablets
EU/1/15/1051/011 5 mg/1000 mg 60 x 1 tablet (unit dose)
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
ebymect 5 mg/1,000 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER  2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER  HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
48
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Ebymect 5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets
dapagliflozin/metformin hydrochloride
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains dapagliflozin propanediol monohydrate equivalent to 5 mg dapagliflozin and 
1,000 mg of metformin hydrochloride.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
film-coated tablet
196 (2 packs of 98) film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
49
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/15/1051/012 5 mg/1000 mg 196 (2 x 98) tablets
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
ebymect 5 mg/1,000 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER  2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER  HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
50
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE INTERMEDIATE PACKAGING
INNER CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Ebymect 5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets
dapagliflozin/metformin hydrochloride
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains dapagliflozin propanediol monohydrate equivalent to 5 mg dapagliflozin and 
1,000 mg of metformin hydrochloride.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
film-coated tablet
98 film-coated tablets. Can’t be sold separately.
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
51
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS OR 
WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/15/1051/012 5 mg/1000 mg 196 (2 x 98) tablets
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
ebymect 5 mg/1,000 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER  2D BARCODE
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER  HUMAN READABLE DATA
52
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
UNIT DOSE BLISTERS (PERFORATED)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Ebymect 5 mg/1,000 mg tablets
dapagliflozin/metformin HCl
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
53
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
BLISTERS (NON-PERFORATED) – 10 tablets blister
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Ebymect 5 mg/1,000 mg tablets
dapagliflozin/metformin HCl
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
{Sun/Moon symbol}
54
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
CALENDAR BLISTERS (NON-PERFORATED) – 14 tablets blister
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Ebymect 5 mg/1,000 mg tablets
dapagliflozin/metformin HCl
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
AstraZeneca AB
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
Mon. Tue. Wed. Thu. Fri. Sat. Sun.
{Sun/Moon symbol}
55
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
56
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Ebymect 5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets
Ebymect 5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets
dapagliflozin/metformin hydrochloride
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains important 
information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even 
if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet
1. What Ebymect is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take Ebymect
3. How to take Ebymect
4.
5. How to store Ebymect
6. Contents of the pack and other information
Possible side effects
1. What Ebymect is and what it is used for
Ebymect contains two different active substances called dapagliflozin and metformin. Both belong to a 
group of medicines called oral anti-diabetics. These are medicines taken by mouth for diabetes.
Ebymect is used for a type of diabetes called “type 2 diabetes” in adult patients (aged 18 years and older). 
If you have type 2 diabetes, your pancreas does not make enough insulin or your body is not able to use 
the insulin it produces properly. This leads to a high level of sugar (glucose) in your blood. 

Dapagliflozin works by removing excess sugar from your body via your urine and lowers the 
amount of sugar in your blood. It can also help prevent heart disease.
Metformin works mainly by inhibiting glucose production in the liver.

To treat type 2 diabetes:


This medicine is taken in combination with diet and exercise.
This medicine is used if your diabetes cannot be controlled with other medicines used to treat 
diabetes.
Your doctor may ask you to take this medicine on its own or together with other medicines to treat 
diabetes. This may be another medicine taken by mouth and/or a medicine given by injection.
If you are already taking both dapagliflozin and metformin as single tablets, your doctor may ask 
you to switch to this medicine. To avoid overdose, do not continue taking dapagliflozin and 
metformin tablets, if you are taking Ebymect.


It is important to continue to follow the advice on diet and exercise given to you by your doctor, 
pharmacist or nurse.
57
2. What you need to know before you take Ebymect
Do not take Ebymect

if you are allergic to dapagliflozin, metformin or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed 
in section 6).
if you have recently had a diabetic coma.
if you have uncontrolled diabetes, with, for example severe hyperglycaemia (high blood glucose), 
nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, rapid weight loss, lactic acidosis (see “Risk of lactic acidosis” below) 
or ketoacidosis. Ketoacidosis is a condition in which substances called ‘ketone bodies’ accumulate 
in the blood and which can lead to a diabetic pre-coma. Symptoms include stomach pain, fast and 
deep breathing, sleepiness or your breath developing an unusual fruity smell.
if you have severely reduced kidney function.
if you have conditions that may worsen your kidney function, such as
-
loss of a lot of water from your body (dehydration), e.g. due to long-lasting or severe 
diarrhoea, or if you have vomited several times in a row
severe infection
serious problems with your blood circulation (shock).
-
-
if you have a disease which may cause problems getting blood to your organs, such as if you have
-
-
-
-
if you have problems with your liver.
if you drink large amounts of alcohol, either every day or only from time to time (please see section 
“Ebymect with alcohol”).
heart failure
difficulties in breathing from acute heart or lung disease
recently had a heart attack
serious problems with your blood circulation (shock).







Do not take this medicine if any of the above apply to you.
Warnings and precautions
Risk of lactic acidosis
Ebymect may cause a very rare, but very serious side effect called lactic acidosis, particularly if your 
kidneys are not working properly. The risk of developing lactic acidosis is also increased with 
uncontrolled diabetes, serious infections, prolonged fasting or alcohol intake, dehydration (see further 
information below), liver problems and any medical conditions in which a part of the body has a reduced 
supply of oxygen (such as acute severe heart disease). 
If any of the above apply to you, talk to your doctor for further instructions.
Stop taking Ebymect for a short time if you have a condition that may be associated with 
dehydration (significant loss of body fluids) such as severe vomiting, diarrhoea, fever, exposure to heat 
or if you drink less fluid than normal. Talk to your doctor for further instructions.
Stop taking Ebymect and contact a doctor or the nearest hospital immediately if you experience 
some of the symptoms of lactic acidosis, as this condition may lead to coma. 
Symptoms of lactic acidosis include:
vomiting
stomach ache (abdominal pain)
-
-
- muscle cramps
-
-
-
a general feeling of not being well with severe tiredness
difficulty in breathing
reduced body temperature and heartbeat
Lactic acidosis is a medical emergency and must be treated in a hospital.
58
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Ebymect, and during treatment:

if you experience rapid weight loss, feeling sick or being sick, stomach pain, excessive thirst, fast 
and deep breathing, confusion, unusual sleepiness or tiredness, a sweet smell to your breath, a sweet 
or metallic taste in your mouth, or a different odour to your urine or sweat, contact a doctor or the 
nearest hospital straight away. These symptoms could be a sign of “diabetic ketoacidosis” – a rare 
but serious, sometimes life-threatening problem you can get with diabetes because of increased 
levels of “ketone bodies” in your urine or blood, seen in tests. The risk of developing diabetic 
ketoacidosis may be increased with prolonged fasting, excessive alcohol consumption, dehydration, 
sudden reductions in insulin dose, or a higher need of insulin due to major surgery or serious illness.
if you have “type 1 diabetes” your body does not produce any insulin. Ebymect should not be used 
to treat this condition. 
if you have very high levels of glucose in your blood which may make you dehydrated (lose too 
much body fluid). Possible signs of dehydration are listed in section 4. Tell your doctor before you 
start taking this medicine if you have any of these signs.
if you are taking medicines to lower blood pressure (anti-hypertensives) and have a history of low 
blood pressure (hypotension). More information is given below under ‘Other medicines and 
Ebymect’.
if you often get infections of the urinary tract. This medicine may cause urinary tract infections and 
your doctor may want to monitor you more closely. Your doctor may consider temporarily 
changing your treatment if you develop a serious infection.




If any of the above applies to you (or you are not sure), talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before 
taking this medicine.
Talk to your doctor immediately if you develop a combination of symptoms of pain, tenderness, redness, 
or swelling of the genitals or the area between the genitals and the anus with fever or feeling generally 
unwell. These symptoms could be a sign of a rare but serious or even life-threatening infection, called 
necrotising fasciitis of the perineum or Fournier’s gangrene which destroys the tissue under the skin. 
Fournier’s gangrene has to be treated immediately.
Surgery
If you need to have major surgery, you must stop taking Ebymect during and for some time after the 
procedure. Your doctor will decide when you must stop and when to restart your treatment with Ebymect.
Kidney function
Your kidneys should be checked before you start taking Ebymect. During treatment with this medicine, 
your doctor will check your kidney function once every year or more frequently if you are elderly and/or 
if you have worsening kidney function.
Foot care
It is important to check your feet regularly and adhere to any other advice regarding foot care given by 
your health care professional.
Urine glucose
Because of how this medicine works, your urine will test positive for sugar while you are on this 
medicine.
Elderly (≥ 65 years and above)
If you are elderly, there may be a higher risk that your kidneys function less well and that you are treated 
with other medicines (see also ‘Kidney function’ above and ‘Other medicines and Ebymect’ below).
59
Children and adolescents
This medicine is not recommended for children and adolescents under 18 years of age, because it has not 
been studied in these patients.
Other medicines and Ebymect
If you need to have an injection of a contrast medium that contains iodine into your bloodstream, for 
example in the context of an X-ray or scan, you must stop taking Ebymect before or at the time of the 
injection. Your doctor will decide when you must stop and when to restart your treatment with Ebymect.
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. You may need 
more frequent blood glucose and kidney function tests, or your doctor may adjust the dosage of Ebymect. 
It is especially important to mention the following:


if you are taking medicines which increase urine production (diuretics).
if you are taking other medicines that lower the amount of sugar in your blood such as insulin or a 
“sulphonylurea” medicine. Your doctor may want to lower the dose of these other medicines, to 
prevent you from getting blood sugar levels that are too low (hypoglycaemia).
if you are taking cimetidine, a medicine used to treat stomach problems.
if you are using bronchodilators (beta-2 agonists) which are used to treat asthma.
if you are using corticosteroids (used to treat inflammation in diseases like asthma and arthritis) that 
are given by mouth, as an injection, or inhaled.
if you are using medicines used to treat pain and inflammation (NSAID and COX-2-inhibitors, such 
as ibuprofen and celecoxib).
if you are using certain medicines for the treatment of high blood pressure (ACE inhibitors and 
angiotensin II receptor antagonists).





Ebymect with alcohol
Avoid excessive alcohol intake while taking Ebymect since this may increase the risk of lactic acidosis 
(see “Warnings and precautions”).
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your 
doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. You should stop taking this medicine if you 
become pregnant, since it is not recommended during the second and third trimesters (the last six months) 
of pregnancy. Talk to your doctor about the best way to control your blood sugar while you are pregnant.
Talk to your doctor if you would like to or are breast-feeding before taking this medicine. You should not 
use this medicine if you are breast-feeding. Metformin passes into human milk in small amounts. It is not 
known if dapagliflozin passes into human breast milk.
Driving and using machines
This medicine has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Taking it with other 
medicines that lower the amount of sugar in your blood, such as insulin or a “sulphonylurea” medicine, 
can cause too low blood sugar levels (hypoglycaemia), which may cause symptoms such as weakness, 
dizziness, increased sweating, fast heart beat, change in vision or difficulties concentrating, and may affect 
your ability to drive and use machines. Do not drive or use any tools or machines, if you start to feel these 
symptoms.
Ebymect contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’.
60
3.
How to take Ebymect
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if 
you are not sure.
How much to take

The amount of this medicine that you will take varies depending on your condition and the doses 
you currently take of metformin and/or individual tablets of dapagliflozin and metformin. Your 
doctor will tell you exactly which strength of this medicine to take.
The recommended dose is one tablet twice a day.

Taking this medicine



Swallow the tablet whole with half a glass of water.
Take your tablet with food. This is to reduce the risk of side effects in the stomach.
Take your tablet twice daily, once in the morning (breakfast) and once in the evening (dinner).
Your doctor may prescribe this medicine together with other medicine(s) to lower the amount of sugar in 
your blood. These may be medicine(s) by mouth or given by injection, such as insulin or a GLP-1 receptor 
agonist. Remember to take these other medicine(s) as your doctor has told you. This will help get the best 
results for your health.
Diet and exercise
To control your diabetes, you still need to keep to diet and exercise, even when you are taking this 
medicine. So it is important to keep following the advice about diet and exercise from your doctor, 
pharmacist or nurse. In particular, if you are following a diabetic weight control diet, continue to follow it 
while you are taking this medicine.
If you take more Ebymect than you should
If you take more Ebymect tablets than you should, you may experience lactic acidosis. Symptoms of lactic 
acidosis include feeling or being very sick, vomiting, stomach ache, muscular cramps, severe tiredness or 
difficulty breathing. If this happens to you, you may need immediate hospital treatment, as lactic acidosis 
may lead to coma. Stop taking this medicine immediately and contact a doctor or the nearest hospital 
straight away (see section 2). Take the medicine pack with you.
If you forget to take Ebymect
If you miss a dose, take it as soon as you remember. If you do not remember until it is time for your next 
dose, skip the missed dose and go back to your regular schedule. Do not take a double dose of this 
medicine to make up for a forgotten dose.
If you stop taking Ebymect
Do not stop taking this medicine without talking to your doctor first. Your blood sugar may increase 
without this medicine.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Stop taking Ebymect and see a doctor straight away if you notice any of the following serious or 
potentially serious side effects:
61
Lactic acidosis, seen very rarely (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people)

Ebymect may cause a very rare, but very serious side effect called lactic acidosis (see section “Warnings 
and precautions”). If this happens you must stop taking Ebymect and contact a doctor or the nearest 
hospital immediately, as lactic acidosis may lead to coma.
Contact a doctor or the nearest hospital straight away if you have any of the following side effects:
Diabetic ketoacidosis, seen rarely (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people)

These are the signs of diabetic ketoacidosis (see also section 2 Warnings and precautions):
- increased levels of “ketone bodies” in your urine or blood
- rapid weight loss
- feeling sick or being sick
- stomach pain
- excessive thirst
- fast and deep breathing
- confusion
- unusual sleepiness or tiredness
- a sweet smell to your breath, a sweet or metallic taste in your mouth or a different odour to your 
urine or sweat.
This may occur regardless of blood glucose level. Your doctor may decide to temporarily or permanently 
stop your treatment with Ebymect.

Necrotising fasciitis of the perineum or Fournier’s gangrene, a serious soft tissue infection of the 
genitals or the area between the genitals and the anus, seen very rarely.
Stop taking Ebymect and see a doctor as soon as possible if you notice any of the following serious 
or potentially serious effects:
Urinary tract infection, seen commonly (may affect up to 1 in 10 people).

These are signs of a severe infection of the urinary tract:
- fever and/or chills
- burning sensation when passing water (urinating)
- pain in your back or side.
Although uncommon, if you see blood in your urine, tell your doctor immediately.
Contact your doctor as soon as possible if you have any of the following side effects:

Low blood sugar levels (hypoglycaemia), seen very commonly (may affect more than 1 in 10 
people) - when taking this medicine with a sulphonylurea or other medicines that lower the amount 
of sugar in your blood, such as insulin.
These are the signs of low blood sugar:
- shaking, sweating, feeling very anxious, fast heart beat
- feeling hungry, headache, change in vision
- a change in your mood or feeling confused.
Your doctor will tell you how to treat low blood sugar levels and what to do if you get any of the signs 
above. If you have symptoms of low blood sugar, eat glucose tablets, a high sugar snack or drink fruit 
juice. Measure your blood sugar if possible and rest.
Other side effects include:
Very common


nausea, vomiting
diarrhoea or stomach ache
62

loss of appetite
Common

















genital infection (thrush) of your penis or vagina (signs may include irritation, itching, unusual 
discharge or odour)
back pain
discomfort when passing water (urine), passing more water than usual or needing to pass water 
more often
changes in the amount of cholesterol or fats in your blood (shown in tests)
increases in the amount of red blood cells in your blood (shown in tests)
decreases in creatinine renal clearance (shown in tests) in the beginning of treatment
changes in taste
dizziness
rash
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)

loss of too much fluid from your body (dehydration, signs may include very dry or sticky mouth, 
passing little or no urine or fast heartbeat)
fungal infection
thirst
constipation
awakening from sleep at night to pass urine
dry mouth
weight decreased
increases in creatinine (shown in laboratory blood tests) in the beginning of treatment
increases in urea (shown in laboratory blood tests)
Very rare



decreased vitamin B12 levels in the blood
abnormalities in liver function tests, inflammation of the liver (hepatitis)
redness of the skin (erythema), itching or an itchy rash (hives)
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine.
5.
How to store Ebymect
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the blister or carton after ‘EXP’. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw 
away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
63
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Ebymect contains

The active substances are dapagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride (metformin HCl).
Each Ebymect 5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablet (tablet) contains 
dapagliflozin propanediol monohydrate equivalent to 5 mg dapagliflozin and 850 mg 
metformin hydrochloride.
Each Ebymect 5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablet (tablet) contains dapagliflozin
propanediol monohydrate equivalent to 5 mg dapagliflozin and 1,000 mg metformin hydrochloride.

The other ingredients are:
 tablet core: hydroxypropylcellulose (E463), microcrystalline cellulose (E460(i)), magnesium 
stearate (E470b), sodium starch glycolate (type A).
 film-coating: poly(vinyl alcohol) (E1203), macrogol (3350) (E1521), talc (E553b), titanium 
dioxide (E171), iron oxide yellow (E172), iron oxide red (E172) (only Ebymect 5 mg/850 mg).
What Ebymect looks like and contents of the pack

Ebymect 5 mg/850 mg are 9.5 x 20 mm oval, brown film-coated tablets. They have “5/850” on one 
side and “1067” on the other side.
Ebymect 5 mg/1,000 mg are 10.5 x 21.5 mm oval, yellow film-coated tablets. They have “5/1000” 
on one side and “1069” on the other side.

Ebymect 5 mg/850 mg film-coated tablets and Ebymect 5 mg/1,000 mg film-coated tablets are available 
in PVC/PCTFE/Alu blister. The pack sizes are 14, 28, 56, and 196 (2 packs of 98) film-coated tablets in 
non-perforated calendar blisters of 14 tablets, 60 film-coated tablets in non-perforated blisters of 
10 tablets, and 60x1 film-coated tablets in perforated unit dose blisters.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed in your country.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
AstraZeneca AB
SE-151 85 Södertälje
Sweden
Manufacturer
AstraZeneca AB
Gärtunavägen
SE-152 57 Södertälje
Sweden
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
AstraZeneca S.A./N.V. 
Tel: +32 2 370 48 11
България
АстраЗенека България ЕООД
Тел.: +359 (2) 44 55 000
Lietuva
UAB AstraZeneca Lietuva
Tel: +370 5 2660550
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
AstraZeneca S.A./N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 370 48 11
Česká republika
AstraZeneca Czech Republic s.r.o.
Magyarország
AstraZeneca Kft.
64
Tel: +420 222 807 111
Tel.: +36 1 883 6500
Danmark
AstraZeneca A/S
Tlf: +45 43 66 64 62
Deutschland
AstraZeneca GmbH
Tel: +49 40 809034100
Eesti
AstraZeneca
Tel: +372 6549 600
Ελλάδα
AstraZeneca A.E. 
Τηλ: +30 2 106871500
España
Esteve Pharmaceuticals, S.A.
Tel: +34 93 446 60 00
Laboratorio Tau, S. A.
Tel: +34 91 301 91 00
France
AstraZeneca
Tél: +33 1 41 29 40 00
Hrvatska 
AstraZeneca d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 4628 000
Malta
Associated Drug Co. Ltd 
Tel: +356 2277 8000
Nederland
AstraZeneca BV
Tel: +31 85 808 9900
Norge
AstraZeneca AS
Tlf: +47 21 00 64 00
Österreich
AstraZeneca Österreich GmbH
Tel: +43 1 711 31 0
Polska
AstraZeneca Pharma Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 245 73 00
Portugal
BIAL-Portela & Cª., S.A.
Tel.: +351 22 986 61 00
România
AstraZeneca Pharma SRL 
Tel: +40 21 317 60 41
Ireland
AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals (Ireland) DAC
Tel: +353 1609 7100
Slovenija
AstraZeneca UK Limited 
Tel: +386 1 51 35 600
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
Italia
AstraZeneca S.p.A.
Tel: +39 02 00704500
Κύπρος
Αλέκτωρ Φαρµακευτική Λτδ
Τηλ: +357 22490305
Slovenská republika
AstraZeneca AB, o.z. 
Tel: +421 2 5737 7777 
Suomi/Finland
AstraZeneca Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 10 23 010
Sverige
AstraZeneca AB
Tel: +46 8 553 26 000
65
Latvija
SIA AstraZeneca Latvija
Tel: +371 67377100
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
AstraZeneca UK Ltd
Tel: +44 1582 836 836
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu
66
