SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Candida infections - epidemiology 
The  yeast  Candida  is  the  most  common  fungal  pathogen  and  constitutes  a  significant  medical 
problem.  Candida  species  have  emerged  as  one  of  the  leading  causes  of  nosocomial  blood  stream 
infections. The increasing use of broad-spectrum antibiotics, cytotoxic chemotherapy, stem cell/solid 
organ  transplantation,  and  the  implementation  of  prosthetic  devices  and  use  of  indwelling 
intravascular catheters account for the greater prevalence of systemic fungal infections during the past 
two decades. Immunosuppressed populations, including those who are neutropenic, run a high risk of 
serious  and  life-threatening  Candida  infections.  C.  albicans  is  the  predominant  clinical  pathogen, 
although during the past decade the proportion of infections caused by non-albicans Candida species 
has increased exponentially. The use of azoles, in particular for prophylaxis, has been hypothesized to 
be a significant factor contributing to this change. The shift in epidemiology of Candida infections has 
important  clinical  and  therapeutic  implications  since  many  non-albicans  Candida  species  have  an 
inherent  decreased  susceptibility  to  currently  available  antifungal  agents.  In  addition,  due  to  the 
widespread use of azoles, particularly fluconazole, resistant strains have increasingly emerged. 
About the product 
Anidulafungin  is  a  semi-synthetic  lipopeptide  of  the  echinocandin  B  class,  synthesized  from  a 
fermentation product of Aspergillus nidulans.  The chemical name for anidulafungin is 1-[(4R, 5R)-4, 
5-dihydroxy-N(2)-[[4"-(pentyloxy)[1,1':4',1"-terphenyl]-4-yl]carbonyl]-L-ornithine]echinocandin B.    
Echinocandins  are  inhibitors  of  fungal  cell  wall  biosynthesis.  Echinocandins  exert  their  effect  by 
disrupting  the  synthesis  of  1,3-beta-D-glucan,  an  integral  component  of  the  fungal  cell  wall.  Their 
mechanism  of  action  differs  from  those  of  established  classes  of  widely  used  systemic  antifungal 
agents,  which  affect  cell  membrane  sterols,  either  by  direct  interaction  with  them  (polyenes, 
represented  by  amphotericin  B)  or  through  inhibition  of  sterol  synthesis  (e.g.  azoles,  including 
fluconazole,  itraconazole  and  voriconazole),  or  interfere  with  nucleid  acid  metabolism  (flucytosine). 
Echinocandins, including anidulafungin, are expected to show no cross-resistance to other antifungal 
agents. 
Anidulafungin is claimed to be active in vitro against Candida spp. including C. albicans, C. glabrata, 
C.  krusei,  C.  parapsilosis,  C.  tropicalis,  C.  dubliniensis,  C.  lusitaniae,  and  C.  guilliermondii  and 
Aspergillus species including A. fumigatus, A. flavus, A. niger, and A. terreus. 
A  Marketing  Authorisation  Application  (MAA)  for  anidulafungin  (Eraxis)  -  for  the  treatment  of 
oesophageal candidiasis- in Europe had been withdrawn by the applicant in 2005. There were major 
Objections  and  Concerns  related  especially  to  the  substantiation  of  efficacy  of  anidulafungin  in  that 
indication.  In  contrast,  the  present  application  seeks  Marketing  Authorisation  (MA)  in  a  different 
indication namely treatment of invasive candidiasis.   
The  claimed  indication  of  anidulafungin  was:    “Treatment  of  invasive  candidiasis,  including 
candidaemia, in adult patients (see section 5.1)”.   
The finally approved indication is:   
“Treatment of invasive candidiasis in adult non-neutropenic patients. 
ECALTA has been studied primarily in patients with candidaemia and only in a limited 
number of patients with deep tissue Candida infections or with abscess-forming disease (see 
section 4.4 and section 5.1).“ 
1/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Ecalta  is  formulated  as  a  single  use  powder  and  solvent  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion 
containing  100  mg  of  anidulafungin  as  active  substance.  Following  reconstitution  with  the  solvent 
provided (i.e. 20% (w/w) ethanol anhydrous in water for injections) to yield to a 3.33 mg /ml solution, 
the product is administered by intravenous infusion after dilution into an intravenous bag (or bottle) 
containing either 9 mg/ml (0.9%) sodium chloride for infusion or 50 mg/ml (5%) glucose for infusion 
(final concentration 0.36 mg/ml). 
The other ingredients include: 
- 
- 
powder:  fructose,  mannitol,  polysorbate  80,  tartaric  acid,  sodium  hydroxide,  hydrochloric 
acid, 
solvent: ethanol anhydrous and water for injections. 
The powder and the solvent are presented in type I glass vials closed by an elastomeric stopper with 
and an aluminium flip-off cap. 
Active Substance  
Anidulafungin is a semi-synthetic cyclic lipopeptide of the echinocandin B class.  
Anidulafungin is a white to off white solid, which is insoluble in water and it is slightly hygroscopic.  
There  are  fifteen  asymmetric  centers  in  the  Echinocandin  B  (ECB)  nucleus  of  Anidulafungin.  The 
active  exhibits  minimal  crystalline  properties.  Polymorphism  and  particle  size  are  not  of  relevance, 
considering the nature of the product i.e. lyophilised powder to be administered as a solution.  
•  Manufacture 
Anidulafungin  is  obtained  by  a  semi-synthetic  process  comprising  fermentation  steps  followed  by 
three  synthetic  steps.  It  is  prepared  from  2  starting  materials,  one  being  the  Echinocandin  B  (ECB) 
nucleus of Anidulafungin obtained by fermentation. 
The  fermentation  steps  comply  with  the  PhEur  monograph  on  “Products  of  fermentation”  where 
relevant.  They  have  been  satisfactorily  validated  as  well  as  the  critical  synthetic  steps.  Satisfactory 
specification and associated methods have been provided for the starting materials, key intermediates, 
reagents  and  solvents  used  in  the  fermentation  and  synthetic  steps  as  relevant.  Process  impurities 
originating  from  each  starting  material/reagent/solvent  and  during  the  process  have  been  adequately 
discussed and limits defined in the active substance specification as appropriate.  
Stereo-isomeric  purity  of  anidulafungin  is  not  a  matter  of  concern  as  the  configuration  of  the 
asymmetric  centers  is  fixed  by  the  producing  microbiological  organism,  single  crystal  X-ray 
crystallography  has  shown  that  the  atoms  comprising  the  ring  structure  of  Echinocandin  B  (ECB) 
nucleus are locked, processing conditions does not allow for optical inversion and ensure that there is 
not significant amount of cyclopeptide ring opening, and the control methods can measure ring opened 
product. 
For stability purposes, D-fructose is added to the active. The mixture of D-fructose and Anidulafungin 
is non-stochiometric, the fructose is not tightly bonded and it is dissociated when dissolved. 
The fructose content in the active substance has been satisfactorily justified based on stability data. 
•  Specification 
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  controlled  by  validated  methods  for  appearance, 
identity (IR and HPLC), assay (HPLC), fructose content, organic impurities (HPLC), residual solvents 
(GC), residue on ignition (PhEur), water content, heavy metals (PhEur), microbial limits (PhEur) and 
bacterial endotoxins (PhEur). 
2/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Impurity limits in the specification are justified by toxicology studies.  
Batch  analysis  data  provided  for  the  fifteen  batches  manufactured  at  the  commercial  manufacturing 
site confirm satisfactory compliance and uniformity with the proposed specification. 
•  Stability 
Data have been generated using anidulafungin stabilised with D-fructose. 
Under long-term conditions (-20°C - commercial packaging), 3-year data have been provided for three 
batches  manufactured  at  the  commercial  manufacturing/synthesis  site.  The  shipping  conditions 
proposed appear as acceptable. 
The parameters tested included appearance, assay, impurities and water content. 
The proposed retest period is supported by the presented data when stored in the proposed packaging. 
Medicinal Product  
Powder 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The objective of the pharmaceutical development was to obtain a finished product that could be stored 
at room temperature.  
Polysorbate 80 is used in order to improve solubility of anidulafungin, which is practically insoluble in 
water (see active substance). The target in-process pH  (#4.3) selected is  maintained by tartaric acid, 
which  has  been  chosen  because  of  its  compatibility  with  the  lyophilisation  process.  Fructose  is 
included  as  a  stabiliser  based  on  good  chemical  stability  data  obtained  for  the  active  and  for  the 
finished product. Mannitol as a bulking agent facilitates lyophilisation. 
Long term stability studies showed no incompatibility of anidulafungin with any of the excipents.  All 
excipients are of PhEur quality and their specification include endotoxin and microbial contamination 
tests  where  relevant.  Regarding  the  TSE  risk,  Ecalta  does  not  contain  any  component  of  ruminant 
origin. 
The 2.5% overfill has been shown to be appropriate to allow the label claim volume to be withdrawn 
from the vial after reconstitution.  
The container closure system consisting of a type  I glass vial closed by an elastomeric stopper with 
and an aluminium flip-off cap meet the PhEur requirements. With regards to the closure seal integrity, 
risk  of  sorption  and  leaking  have  been  satisfactorily  addressed.  A  compatibility  study  has  been 
performed in order to review potential leachable compounds.  
Compatibility  of  the  finished  product  reconstituted  with  20%  (w/w)  ethanol  anhydrous  in  water  for 
injections  and  further  diluted  into  an  intravenous  polyvinylchloride  bag  containing  either  9 mg/ml 
(0.9%) sodium chloride for infusion or 50 mg/ml (5%) glucose for infusion (final concentration 0.36 
mg/ml) has been demonstrated (for in-use stability see stability of the product). 
The formulation used in the pivotal phase III study was essentially similar to the intended product. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process is a standard aseptic process including the following steps: compounding, 
sterile filtration, filling, lyophilisation and packaging. 
Satisfactory  operating  parameters  and  in-process  controls  have  been  defined  at  each  stage  of 
manufacture.  
3/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Validation data have been provided for three production-scale batches.  
•  Product Specification 
The  finished  product  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  clarity  of  the  reconstituted  solution 
(PhEur),  identification  (IR,  HPLC),  pH,  assay  (HPLC),  degradation  products  (HPLC),  uniformity  of 
dosage units (PhEur), water content (PhEur), bacterial endotoxins (PhEur), particulate contamination 
(PhEur), sterility (PhEur) and reconstitution time. 
Batch analysis data provided for the three production-scale batches confirm satisfactory compliance 
and uniformity with the proposed specification. 
•  Stability of the Product 
- 
Before reconstitution and dilution 
Stability data are presented for 3 primary stability batches of the 100 mg vials and supportive data are 
presented for 50 mg vials batches.  
For the 100 mg vials, up to 2-year data and 6 months data are available respectively under long term 
(25ºC/60%RH  -  proposed  packaging  -  stored  in  inverted  position)  and  under  accelerated  conditions 
(40°C/75% RH - proposed packaging - stored in inverted position). For the 50  mg vials 3-year data 
and  6  month  data  are  available  respectively  under  under  long  term  (25ºC/60%RH  -  proposed 
packaging - stored in inverted position) and under accelerated conditions (40°C/75% RH - commercial 
packaging - stored in inverted position). 
The  parameters  tested  included  appearance,  assay,  pH,  water  content,  completeness  and  clarity  of 
solution,  reconstitution  time,  particulate  matters  degradation  products,  particulate  contamination, 
reconstitution time and sterility.  
-  After reconstitution 
Chemical and physical in-use stability of the solution reconstituted with 20% (w/w) ethanol anhydrous 
in  water  for  injections  has  been  demonstrated  for  3  hours  at  25ºC  and  for  2  hours  at  5°C.  The 
reconstitution time can be up to 5 minutes.   
-  After reconstitution and dilution 
Chemical and physical in-use stability of the infusion solution has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 
25ºC.  
From  a  microbiological  point  of  view,  the  product  should  be  used  immediately.  If  not  used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the user.  
The results presented support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions defined in the SPC for the 
finished product before reconstitution and dilution, after dilution and after dilution and reconstitution. 
Solvent 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
20% (w/w) ethanol anhydrous in water for injections has been selected as reconstitution solvent over 
water  for  injections  based  on  its  ability  to  rapidly  reconstitute  the  finished  product  in  addition  to 
significantly reduce foaming.  
This introduces 6 g of ethanol into the concentrate after reconstitution (see section 4.4 of the SPC and 
section 2 of the package leaflet). 
All the constituents are of PhEur quality and the solvent does not contain any component of ruminant 
origin. The packaging materials meet the PhEur requirements. 
With  regards  to  the  closure  seal  integrity,  risk  of  sorption  and  leaking  has  been  satisfactorily 
addressed.  
4/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The 4.5% overfill has been shown to be appropriate to allow the label claim volume to be withdrawn 
from the vial. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process is a standard process including the following steps: preparation of the bulk 
solution,  filtration,  filling  into  the  vials,  stoppering  and  sterilisation  by  autoclaving  (22  minutes 
121ºC). The sterilisation process is a standard PhEur method. 
Satisfactory  operating  parameters  and  in-process  controls  have  been  defined  at  each  stage  of 
manufacture.  
•  Product Specification 
The solvent specification in include tests for appearance, clarity (PhEur), identity ethanol (GC), assay 
ethanol (GC), bacterial endotoxins (PhEur), particulate contamination (PhEur) and sterility (PhEur). 
Batch  analysis  data  provided  confirm  satisfactory  compliance  and  uniformity  with  the  proposed 
specification. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability data are presented for 3 primary stability batches of the 30 ml vials and supportive data are 
presented for 15 ml vials.  
For  the  30  ml  vials,  up  to  1-year  data  are  available  under  long  term  (25ºC/60%RH  -  proposed 
packaging). 
For  the  15  ml  vials  3-year  data  and  6  month  data  are  available  respectively  under  under  long  term 
(25ºC/60%RH - proposed packaging) and under accelerated conditions (40°C/75% RH - proposed). 
The parameters tested included appearance, assay, particulate contamination and sterility. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  active  substance  is  well  characterized  and  documented.  The  pharmaceutical  form  selected  is 
adequate taking into account the properties and the stability of the drug substance. The excipients are 
commonly  used  for  this  kind  of  formulation  and  the  packaging  material  is  well  documented.  The 
manufacturing process enhances to obtain reproducible finished product batches. Stability tests under 
ICH conditions indicate that the product is stable for the proposed shelf life. At the time of the CHMP 
opinion, there were minor unresolved quality issues having no impact on the benefit-risk- balance of 
the product. The applicant committed to resolve it as follow up measures after the opinion, within an 
agreed timeframe. 
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The pivotal non-clinical safety studies were conducted under GLP conditions.   
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Anidulafungin  is  a  non-competitive  inhibitor  of  (1,3)-β-D-glucan  synthase,  an  enzyme  required  for 
synthesis  of  β-linked  glucan,  which  is  a  cell  wall  component  of  fungi.  In  vitro  activity  was 
demonstrated  against  Candida  spp.,  Aspergillus  spp.,  and  Pneumocystis  carinii.  For  Candida  spp. 
except C.parapsilosis, MIC90 values were below the human therapeutic concentration of 7.2 mg/l. The 
in vitro activity of anidulafungin against C.albicans, C.Glabrata, C.krusei and C.tropicalis was at least 
equivalent to that of caspofungin, micafungin, fluconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, posaconazole, 
amphotericin B, and flucytosine. Anidulafungin was also active against fluconazole-resistant isolates. 
5/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Activity  of  anidulafungin  against  C.parapsilosis  was  less  than  for  most  other  antifungal  agents.  In 
vitro  activity  against  Aspergillus  species  fumigatus,  terreus,  niger,  nidulans  and  flavus  was  at  least 
equivalent  to  that  of  itraconazole  and  amphotericin  B.  Resistance  to  anidulafungin  has  not  been 
described to date. For other members of the echinocandin group, resistance has been reported rarely. 
Based on current data, fast emergence of resistance to anidulafungin is not very likely.  
In vivo activity was demonstrated against C.albicans, C.krusei, C.glabrata, A.fumigatus, and P.carinii, 
based on survival studies and organ recovery studies, mainly performed in mice and rabbits. In some 
of the studies in mice, Candida was completely eradicated from the investigated organs (kidney and 
liver)  at  similar  dosages  (exposure  based  on  AUC  comparable  to  human  therapeutic  exposure)  and 
treatment durations (3 days). In rabbits, exposures at or below the human therapeutic exposure for 7 – 
10  days  produced  complete  eradication  of  C.albicans  from  target  organs  stomach,  duodenum, 
oesophagus, and spleen. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
In  smooth  and  cardiac  muscle  tissue  of  rats  and  guinea  pigs,  no  effects  were  observed  on  non-
stimulated  muscarinic,  β-adrenergic,  α-adrenergic  and  angiotensin  receptor  activity.  A  slight  (13%) 
but  significant  increase  was  observed  in  the  force  of  angiotensin-induced  contractions  in  guinea  pig 
ileum.  A  significant  decrease  (45%)  was  observed  in  the  EC50  of  isoproterenol  in  isoproterenol-
induced contractions in guinea pig trachea. The maximum tested concentration of anidulafungin (1.14 
mg/l, free fraction) was at least 16-fold above the human therapeutic plasma concentration of 7.2 mg/l. 
No effect was observed on body temperature, grip strength, convulsive liability, hexobarbital-induced 
sleep  time,  auditory  startle,  and  spontaneous  activity  in  mice  at  dosages  up  to  20  mg/kg  (exposure 
about 2-fold higher than the human therapeutic exposure based on AUC, see the table on interspecies). 
Lethargy was observed in rats at 20 mg/kg. No effects were observed on action potential duration in 
isolated  rabbit  Purkinje  fibres.  In  an  in  vivo  study  in  rats,  anidulafungin  did  not  cause  arrhythmias. 
However, since in this study the  ECGs were evaluated subjectively, QT intervals were probably not 
measured.  A  decrease  was  observed  in  systolic  and  diastolic  blood  pressure  in  rats,  during  the  first 
hour after dosing. Also observed in rats, and possibly connected with the decreased blood pressure, are 
an increased heart rate, a decreased total urinary excretion of sodium (79%), a decreased fraction of 
filtered  sodium  in  the  final  urine,  and  a  decreased  urinary  volume  (68%).  In  a  study  in  telemetered 
monkeys, standard cardiovascular parameters were measured, also QT and RR intervals; no clinically 
relevant cardiovascular effects were observed. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies have been performed in vitro with isolates of Candida and 
Aspergillus spp. This is further discussed in the clinical section of the report. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Animal PK studies were conducted in mice, rats, rabbits, dogs and monkeys using validated methods 
of analysis. 
Most species tested (including humans) had similar anidulafungin pharmacokinetics across all studied 
doses. Anidulafungin volume of distribution, plasma clearance (CL), and t1/2 were dose-independent in 
animal species. The drug is widely distributed in all species with volume of distribution approximately 
equivalent  to  the  total  body  fluid  content.  Anidulafungin  accumulates  in  the  liver,  spleen,  lung  and 
kidney. Plasma protein binding is high (>99%) for rat, dog, monkey and human. Anidulafungin is not 
metabolised  and,  at  clinically  relevant  concentrations,  is  not  a  substrate,  inhibitor,  or  inducer  of  the 
hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) system. Anidulafungin chemically degrades slowly to a ring-opened 
product that is further degraded. Faecal elimination is the major route of elimination for anidulafungin 
and its degradation products. A fraction of the administered dose is eliminated as intact anidulafungin 
by both biliary and non-biliary mechanisms. 
6/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Acute  IV  toxicity  in  rats  indicated  an  LD50  of  71  mg/kg.  Mice  survived  after  a  single  dose  of  100 
mg/kg.  Overt  symptoms  consistent  with  an  infusion  reaction  (e.g.  swollen  snout,  red  ears, 
hypoactivity) and haemoglobinuria occurred at 50 mg/kg in both species. In  rats, there  were several 
overt symptoms, which were suggestive of oedema and a disturbed water balance (excessive drinking, 
swollen muzzles, moist pancreas). 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeated-dose studies were performed in 1 month- and 13 week studies in rats and monkeys. In rats, 
the  principal  overt  symptom  was  a  dose-related  (10  mg/kg/day  and  higher),  but  transient,  infusion 
reaction.  Signs  (e.g.  swollen  snout,  red  ears,  hypoactivity)  generally  dissipated  after  a  few  days  of 
dosing.  The  1  month-  and  13  week  repeated-dose  toxicity  studies  showed  that  treatment  with 
anidulafungin leads to an increase in absolute/relative weight of spleen and lung and liver in the rat. In 
this  species,  the  observed  hepatic  effects  included  microscopic  cellular  changes  (polykaryocytosis, 
karyomegaly, hypertrophy sinusoidal lining cells, vacuolation) and necrosis, leading to the release of 
liver  enzymes  into  the  circulation  (ALP,  AST,  ALT,  GGT).  In  the  monkey,  only  an  increase  in 
absolute/relative weight of the liver was observed. In this species, a high dose of 30 mg/kg/day for 1 
month  resulted  in  mildly  to  moderately  increased  cholesterol  concentrations  and  ALP  activity. 
Transient,  mild  to  moderate  increases  in  serum  enzymes  indicative  of  liver  injury  (ALT  and  AST) 
were also noted in a few animals. A dosage of 35 mg/kg/day administered for 13 weeks to monkeys 
was  associated  with  moderately  higher  cholesterol  concentration  and  mildly  higher  ALP  activity, 
increased  absolute and relative liver weights (approximately 40%) in  males,  and  minimal  multifocal 
hypertrophy of sinusoidal and peri-sinusoidal cells  which contained blue-staining material. Animals, 
allowed  to  recover  for  1  month  after  the  cessation  of  dosing,  no  longer  exhibited  elevated  ALP  or 
cholesterol, but microscopic liver changes were observed in 2 of the 4 animals that had received 35 
mg/kg/day. 
High  (at  least  30  mg/kg/day)  IV  doses  in  rats  were  also  associated  with  moderate  effects  on  body 
weight  gain,  skeletal  myopathy,  effects  on  the  thymus,  epididymis,  and  kidneys,  and  histological 
changes in several tissues suggestive of an effect on the reticuloendothelial system (RES) involving an 
increase  in  the  number  of  secondary  lysosomes.  In  the  1  month  and  13  week  studies,  the  plasma 
cholesterol  was  increased  at  dosages  of  6.6  mg/kg/day  and  higher.  A  mild,  regenerative  anaemia, 
haemoglobinuria and red discharge in the eyes were also seen. The cause of these effects is unknown 
but  is  probably  due  to  haemolysis.  These  effects  were  not  seen  in  monkeys.  Partial-to-complete 
recovery  of  all  clinical  pathology  parameters  plus,  in  some  cases,  reduced  severity  of  microscopic 
findings, including liver changes, were noted 1 month after the end of dosing. The NOAEL for rats 
was 5 mg/kg/day and for monkeys was 10 mg/kg/day for 13 weeks days of daily dosing. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Anidulafungin was non-genotoxic in several Bacterial Reverse Mutation Assays (Ames tests) and in 
Chromosomal  Aberration  Tests  in-vitro  (CHO  cells,  mouse  lymphoma  cells)  and  in  vivo  (mouse 
micronucleus test).   
Various  lots  of  anidulafungin  were  tested  on  genotoxic  potential  and  in  two  repeated  dose  studies. 
Different toxicity profiles were observed in some lots. The positive results of two lots in the Ames test 
were caused by microbial contamination. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
Long-term carcinogenicity studies with IV drug were not conducted. 
7/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
No  selective  reproductive  or  developmental  toxicity  occurred  in  rats  or  rabbits  when  anidulafungin 
was  administered.  A  combined  reproductive,  fertility  and  developmental  toxicity  (Segment  I  and  II) 
study in rats only showed adverse reproductive and developmental effects at the highest dosage tested 
(20  mg/kg/day;  NOAEL  is  5  mg/kg).  A  rat  peri-  and  postnatal  toxicity  (Segment  III)  study 
demonstrated  maternal  effects  (infusion  reactions  at  dosages  ≥  6  mg/kg/day)  and  decreased  weight 
gain/food consumption (20 mg/kg/day); therefore, the maternal No Observable Effects Level (NOEL) 
was  2  mg/kg/day.  A  rabbit  developmental  toxicity  (Segment  II)  study  revealed  maternal  and 
developmental  NOAELs  of  10  mg/kg/day  based  on  decreased  maternal  weight  gain  and  1  abortion, 
(probably secondary to decreased weight gain/food intake) and decreased foetal weight and metacarpal 
ossification observed with maternal dosages of 20 mg/kg/day.  
•  Local tolerance  
An  acute  IV  and  perivascular  irritation  study  was  performed  in  rabbits.  No  adverse  effects  were 
observed.  Anidulafungin  has  to  be  considered  an  ocular  irritant  for  the  rabbit  eye,  and  was  slightly 
irritant  for  the  rabbit  skin.  Anidulafungin  caused  haemolysis  in  rat  blood,  but  adverse  effects  were 
lacking  in  human  blood.  Anidulafungin  had  mild  phototoxic  potential  in  mouse  fibroblasts,  but  no 
phototoxicity was observed in an in vivo photosafety study in rats at a single dose up to 30 mg/kg.  
•  Other toxicity studies 
Anidulafungin  did  not  adversely  affect  the  humoral  component  of  the  immune  system  based  on  the 
results  of  a  functional  plaque  assay  performed  with  splenocytes.  Bone  marrow  M:E  ratios  were  not 
affected by any dose of anidulafungin. Nor did it decrease the cellular immune response as determined 
by anti-CD3-stimulated proliferation and lack of effects on the thymus. The increased spleen weight 
(dose-dependent),  increased  spleen  cell  number  (not  dose-dependent),  and  the  increased  antiCD3-
stimulated  proliferation  (at  the  highest  dose  of  30  mg/kg/day)  could  indicate  an  increased  T  cell 
response.  The  spleen  effects  are  probably  due  to  the  slight  activation  of  the  RES  in  rats.  This 
activation was not observed in monkeys, so is not expected to be clinically relevant. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The applicant has provided an environmental risk assessment prepared in accordance with the current 
Note for Guidance.  Since anidulafungin is a lipopeptide and subject to significant degradation, it may 
be concluded that anidulafungin will not present an environmental risk following patient use.  
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
In  3-month  studies,  evidence  of  liver  toxicity,  including  elevated  enzymes  and  morphologic 
alterations, was  observed  in  both  rats  and  monkeys  at  doses  4-  to  6-fold  higher  than  the  anticipated 
clinical therapeutic exposure.  
Long-term carcinogenicity studies with IV drug were not conducted. This was considered acceptable 
by  the  CHMP  since  anidulafungin  was  found  to  be  non-genotoxic  and  to  have  no  selective 
reproductive  or  developmental  toxicity  and  because  long-term  clinical  IV  dosing  is  not  anticipated. 
Furthermore,  a  retrospective  study  in  archival  liver  samples  of  a  3-months  rat  study  showed  that 
anidulafungin given to rats intravenously at doses up to 30 mg/kg/day for 13 weeks did not produce 
increased  numbers  of  hepatic  foci  of  cellular  alteration,  hepatocellular  regenerative  hyperplasia,  or 
hepatocellular neoplasia. 
8/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
In this assessment the focus is on new data not discussed in the assessment of the previous MAA. The 
PK data assessment from the previous MAA is updated for so far necessary in this AR together with 
an update on the PD data. The assessment of the previously provided data on the efficacy and safety of 
anidulafungin in the treatment of oesophageal candidiasis is integrated into the present assessment as 
supportive data for the safety of Anidulafungin (Eraxis). 
GCP 
The clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
During  assessment  it  was  noted  that  FDA  submitted  a  request  for  an  independent  audit  for  the 
pharmacokinetic data for the studies VER-002-010 (a mass balance study of 14C-anidulafungin), VER-
002-012 (a study to examine the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetic profile of IV anidulafungin 
in  immunocompromised  children  with  neutropenia,  ages  2 to  17  years)  and  VER-002-013  (an 
interaction study with voriconazole (Vfend)).  
In the opinion of the CHMP, these 4 studies are supportive and have no impact on the evaluation of 
the benefit/risk ratio for Ecalta. The outcome of the audit will be dealt with via a Follow-Up Measure.   
Pharmacokinetics 
To  support  the  application  of  anidulafungin,  5  single  and  multiple  dose  studies  with  an  oral 
formulation  were  submitted  and  13  studies  with  the  intravenous  formulation,  including  one  study  in 
children. In addition, 4 studies were included in population pharmacokinetic analysis. 
A  total  of  124  subjects  (healthy  subjects,  subjects  with  HIV,  or  with  fungal  infections)  received  the 
oral study drug and were included in the pharmacokinetic analysis. For the intravenous formulation, 
pharmacokinetic  data  were  obtained  from  226  subjects  without  fungal  infections  (including  subjects 
with  HIV,  hepatic  impairment,  and  renal  impairment)  and  from  about  262  subjects  with  fungal 
infections.  Pharmacokinetic  data  were  also  obtained  from  24  immunocompromised  children  with 
neutropenia. 
•  Absorption  
After  oral  administration  of  anidulafungin  it  appeared  that  the  absolute  bioavailability  was  low  (2  – 
7%) and the variability in the pharmacokinetic variables high (ca. 50%). Therefore the i.v.formulation 
was  chosen  for  further  development  and  thus  the  absolute  bioavailability  of  this  formulation  is  not 
considered to be an issue (100%).  
Anidulafungin  showed  linear  pharmacokinetics  after  once  daily  dosing  over  the  dose  range  of  15  – 
130 mg. Using a loading dose of twice the daily dose, steady state was received at the second dose. No 
unexpected accumulation occurs. At a loading dose of 200 mg and a daily dose of 100 mg, Cmax was 
about 7.2 µg/ml, AUCss ca. 110 µg.h/ml and Cmin about 3.3 µg/ml. The recommended infusion rate of 
ca.  1  mg/min  (0.5  mg/ml  solution)  was  based  on  adverse  events  which  were  observed  at  higher 
infusion rates. 
•  Distribution 
In vitro protein binding studies using human plasma indicate that protein binding is about 99%. The 
volume of distribution (0.6 l/kg) is comparable to total body fluid. Anidulafungin does not accumulate 
9/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in erythrocytes. Animal data indicate that anidulafungin accumulates in liver, spleen kidney and lung, 
and crosses the placenta and is excreted into mother milk. 
After  administration  of  radio-labelled  anidulafungin,  a  long  elimination  half-life  of  plasma 
radioactivity (about 268 hours) was observed. This half-life was estimated by using only 2 time points 
and  considered  not  reliable.  Although  the  low  incidence  of  observed  hepatic  AEs  in  ICC  patients 
suggest  no  covalently  bind  to  albumin,  this  cannot  be  ruled  out.  Nevertheless,  although  the  risk 
appears low, the proposed SPC warns for the potential for hepatic effects when treating patients with 
anidulafungin. In addition, a Pharmacovigilance follow-up measure with regard to hepatic safety and 
elucidation of the covalent binding was requested. 
•  Elimination 
In vitro and in vivo data indicate that anidulafungin undergoes transformation in a ring-opened product 
as a result of non-enzymatic degradation. The ring-opened product, a linear peptide, is considered to 
be a substrate for further metabolism by non-specific peptidases (into small peptides). About 40% of 
the drug-derived radioactivity exposure in plasma was due to anidulafungin, and the remaining 60% of 
the exposure in plasma was due to biotransformation products. About 29 ± 13% of the administered 
radioactive  dose  was  recovered  in  faeces  over  9  days,  of  which  less  than  10%  of  the  dose  as  intact 
drug. Only 0.56 ± 0.12% of the administered radioactive dose was recovered in urine. 
The ring-opened product and the other biotransformation products (small peptides) are considered to 
have no pharmacological activity, as they lack the cyclo-peptide ring structure which is required for 
antifungal activity. 
The  elimination  half-life  of  anidulafungin  is  about  40-50  hours,  and  total  body  clearance  about  16 
ml/min which was independent of dose and not affected by repeat administration. 
•  Special populations 
With  regard  to  patients  with  an  impaired  renal  function,  patients  with  an  impaired  liver  function, 
elderly, age and race, the pharmacokinetics are not significant altered. The SPC gives no special dose 
recommendation.  This is agreed based on the pharmacokinetics.  
In  a  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis,  a  small  increase  (ca.  20%)  in  clearance  was  observed  in 
male subjects compared with female subjects. The weight effect was within about 30% comparing the 
extremes of the weight borders (40 and 150 kg) with the normal weight group (70 kg).  
Comparable  steady  state  concentration-time  profiles  were  obtained  in  children  receiving  0.75  and 
1.5 mg/kg/day  anidulafungin  and  adult  patients  receiving  50  and  100  mg/day  anidulafungin, 
respectively. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
As observed from the in vitro and in vivo metabolism studies, anidulafungin is expected to have a low 
interaction  profile.  This  was  also  indicated  by  the  pharmacokinetic  population  analysis,  showing  no 
significant influence of CYP450 inducers, inhibitors, and rifampicin. In vivo, a small but significant 
decrease  (ca.16%)  in  the  anidulafungin  plasma  clearance  was  observed  when  co-administered  with 
cyclosporin  A,  which  is  considered  not  clinically  relevant.  In  vivo,  no  interaction  is  observed  with 
voriconazole, tacrolimus and amphotericin B. 
10/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Anidulafungin, like other echinocandins, is a non-competitive inhibitor of 1,3-beta-D-glucan synthase, 
an  enzyme  required  for  the  synthesis  of  beta-linked  glucan  polymers,  which  comprise  a  major 
structural component of the cell wall of many pathogenic fungi. As interference with cell wall glucan 
production  results  in  osmotically  fragile  cells  that  are  easily  lysed,  anidulafungin  has  fungicidal 
activity. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Breakpoints  are  currently  not  available  for  anidulafungin.  MICs  were  determined  according  to  the 
Clinical  and  Laboratory  Standards  Institute  (CLSI)  approved  standard  reference  method  M27  for 
yeasts. 
Studies in vitro 
Anidulafungin shows activity in vitro against a number of important pathogenic organisms, including 
Candida spp., Aspergillus spp., and Pneumocystis carinii.  Against Candida and Aspergillus, 
anidulafungin is at least as potent as, and often more potent than, amphotericin B and fluconazole.  
Activity against Candida species in vitro has been assessed in at least 23 studies, which included more 
than 11 000 isolates of at least 14 species (including polyene- and azole-resistant isolates) from more 
than 390 centres worldwide.  Most of these isolates were obtained from the bloodstream, whilst many 
others  (mainly  obtained  from  HIV-infected  patients)  came  from  oropharyngeal  mucosa.  For  most 
Candida species, anidulafungin MIC90s were  comparable to or lower than the  MIC90s of established 
antifungal  agents.  Where  fungicidal  activity  was  assessed,  anidulafungin  showed  concentration-
dependent activity against Candida species. 
In  vitro  studies  demonstrated  no  antagonism  when  anidulafungin  was  combined  with  fluconazole, 
amphotericin B, itraconazole or flucytosine against Candida species, nor with amphotericin B against 
Aspergillus species. 
Studies in animal models 
In animal models, anidulafungin has cleared Candida from internal organs and mucosa and prolonged 
survival  in  lethal  infections.  Efficacy  of  anidulafungin  against A.  fumigatus  infections  in  mouse  and 
rabbit models, and against P. jiroveci in mice and rats has also been described.  
Clinical trials 
Overall, the epidemiology of the baseline pathogens across the three Phase 2 and Phase 3 studies in 
invasive  candidiasis  was  similar  to  other  studies  of  candidaemia,  with  the  most  common  pathogens 
being C. albicans followed by C. glabrata, C. parapsilosis and C. tropicalis. The lower proportion of 
non-albicans  species,  in  particular  C.  glabrata  in  the  pivotal  study  VER002-9  (approx.  20%  vs. 
approx.  2-fold  higher  in  the  other  studies)  is  explained  by  the  exclusion  by  investigators  of  patients 
infected with this organism in the pivotal study VER002-9, which used fluconazole as the comparator- 
since C. glabrata is often resistant to fluconazole.  
With  the  200/100  mg  loading/maintenance  dose  regimen  used  in  the  ICC  studies,  the  peak  plasma 
concentration  exceeds  6  mg/l,  and  concentrations  greater  than  2  mg/l  are  maintained  throughout 
therapy.  These  are  well  above  the  MIC90s  that  were  determined  in  vitro  for  Candida  species. 
Anidulafungin  MICs  above  0.06  mg/l  were  infrequent,  however.  Overall,  there  was  no  clear 
relationship  between  echinocandin  activity  in  vitro  and  actual  patient  response.  See  display  in  the 
following table. 
11/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1   Successful By-Pathogen Microbiological Responses by Anidulafungin MIC  
MIC (mg/l)  
≤ 0.002  
0.004  
0.008  
0.015  
0.03  
0.06  
0.12  
0.25  
0.5  
1  
2  
Unknown 
Successful Response* 
[n/N (%)] 
48/50 (96) 
23/26 (89) 
22/22 (100) 
11/15 (73) 
11/13 (85) 
8/9 (89) 
1/3 (33) 
2/2 (100) 
6/7 (86) 
4/6 (67) 
2/3 (67) 
11/13 (85) 
*  Patients Treated with 100 mg Anidulafungin Daily in studies VER002-9 and VER002-9B Combined- -ITT, End of IV 
Therapy 
In the invasive candidiasis studies, 73% of baseline pathogens were from the US, and 96% from the 
US  and  Canada  combined.    Nevertheless,  the  overall  species  distribution  was  similar  for  most 
countries, and MIC ranges and distributions were also similar in different geographical areas. When 
similar  test  conditions  were  used,  anidulafungin  MICs  were  similar  within  species  for  isolates  from 
different geographic areas, different studies, and different anatomical sites of infection. 
Resistance 
To date, there has been no documented report of resistance to anidulafungin in clinical study isolates 
or non-clinical study isolates of Candida species.  
Recent  limited  data  on  clinical  isolates  suggest  incomplete  cross-resistance  among  the  few  reported 
micafungin or caspofungin resistant Candida isolates that have been tested. 
PK/PD 
PD and PK/PD studies in healthy subjects were not conducted. 
A  population  pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic  (PK/PD)  analysis  was  performed  to  evaluate  the 
association  between  exposure  and  efficacy  and  safety  endpoints  based  on  individual  data  from  four 
studies  (VER002-4,  VER002-6,  VER002-7  and  VER002-11).  Minimum  inhibitory  concentration 
(MIC)  testing  was  performed  in  three  studies  (VER002-4,  VER002-6  and  VER002-11).  The  MIC-0 
(defined as 95%-100% growth inhibition after 24- h incubation) values at the baseline were used for 
PK-PD index evaluation such as AUC/MIC, where AUC is the area under curve.  
Study VER002-6 was the only Phase II trial in invasive candidiasis included in this PK/PD analysis. 
The  other  studies  are  not  immediately  relevant  for  the  present  indication  because  of  the  other 
indications (in patients with different disease and demographic characteristics) and lower doses tested 
and the questionable design of some of them:  
VER002-4 is the pivotal comparative study in  oesophageal candidiasis which  tested a lower 
dose – 2 fold lower than presently sought.   
VER002-7 was a Phase II, open label, non-comparative study of the safety and efficacy of IV 
anidulafungin  plus  AmBisome  [(amphotericin  B)  as  a  treatment  for  invasive  aspergillosis 
(IA). Patients received anidulafungin treatment (200/100 mg) in combination with AmBisome 
(dose up to 5 mg/kg/day) up to 90 days. The combined treatment design (non-factorial) with 
anidulafungin (single dose level) plus amphotericin B in a different indication does not help to 
elucidate  the  contribution  of  anidulafungin  exposure  to  safety  and  efficacy  in  the  presently 
sought target population.  
12/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VER002-11 was a Phase  II, open label study of the safety and efficacy of IV anidulafungin 
100/50 mg as a treatment of (19) patients with azole-refractory mucosal candidiasis; again the 
indication and single dose lower level of anidulafungin not helpful in deriving relevant PK/PD 
data for the present indication.  
Focusing on study VER002-6, the probabilities of success at global response at the end of therapy and 
at the 2-week follow-up were positively associated with AUC (n = 87), but not with AUC/MIC (n = 
71).  Adequate  characterization  of  the  effect  of  anidulafungin  exposure  on  response  could  not  be 
established in all treated patients due to the small sample size. No trend was observed in the clinically 
evaluable patients. 
As noted earlier, in the population pharmacokinetic analysis, the weight effect was within about 30% 
comparing the extremes of the weight borders (40 and 150 kg) with the normal weight group (70 kg). 
Additional  analyses  indicate  that  high  body  weight  did  not  seem  to  impact  adversely  on  efficacy, 
whereas the number of patients on the low end of the weight spectrum (n=12) is too small to allow any 
indicative  conclusions  (suggesting  an  excess  number  of  adverse  events  due  to  high  exposure).    The 
applicant committed to collect data for patients on the low end of the weight spectrum as part of the 
ongoing PSURs. 
Clinical efficacy  
The clinical evidence of efficacy and safety of anidulafungin in the newly sought indication is based 
on  the  results  of  a  pivotal  randomised  double-blind  comparative  study.  In  addition  supportive  non-
comparative data provide further support for efficacy/safety. See the table below. 
Table 2   Phase II/III Intravenous Anidulafungin Studies in ICC 
Study 
Design 
Location 
ITT population 
VER002-9 
VER002-9B 
VER002-6 
XBAG † 
DB, comparative vs. 
Fluconazole 
Open label  
Open label 
DB, vs. fluconazole  
Anidulafungin 
Maintenance 
Dose 
(mg/day, IV)* 
100 
100 
50, 75, 100 
25, 35 
USA, Canada, IT, 
DE, NL 
USA, Canada 
USA 
USA, BE, South 
Africa 
131 anidulafungin 
125 fluconazole‡ 
33 
120 
3 anidulafungin 
2 fluconazole‡ 
* Day 1 loading dose was twice the maintenance dose in all phase 2/3 studies.  
† Raw data not available for Study XBAG. 
‡ In Studies VER002-9 and XBAG, fluconazole was administered as a 800 mg IV loading dose and thereafter at 
400 mg IV daily, with dose adjustments for renal insufficiency. 
XBAG,  was  conducted  by  the  original  sponsor  but  was  discontinued  after  only  5  patients  were 
enrolled.  The current applicant does not have access to the raw data for this study.  
For the other 3 “invasive candidiasis” (ICC) studies, study drug was to be administered for a minimum 
of  14  days  following  the  last  negative  culture  or  commencement  of  improved  signs  and  symptoms 
(whichever occurred later), for a maximum of 42 days.  
In all 3 studies, median age was between 51.5 and 59 years. Most patients (∼90%) had candidaemia 
only and, with the exception of the 75mg dose in VER002-6, approx. 20% of patients in each study 
had  an  APACHE  II  score  >  20,  scores  >  20  being  indicative  of  a  sick  population  often  found  in 
intensive care units. It should be noted however, that there was a percentage of patients in each of the 
VER002-6 study arms that had unknown APACHE scores.  Diabetes mellitus and renal failure were 
common  co-morbidities  and  the  use  of  central  venous  catheters,  broad-spectrum  antibiotics,  recent 
surgery and neoplasia were common risk factors among patients in studies VER002-9 and VER002-
9B. 
13/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Dose response studies 
In  the  Phase  II,  dose  ranging  study  VER002-6  loading/maintenance  dose  regimens  of  100/50  mg, 
150/75  mg  and  200/100  mg  were  evaluated  in  patients  with  invasive  candidiasis  and  candidaemia. 
Despite  wide  overlap  of  confidence  intervals,  there  was  a  suggestion  of  dose-response  the  observed 
trend favouring the two higher doses of anidulafungin (150/75 mg and 200/100 mg).  Further details of 
this study are provided under section “Supportive studies” (below).  
Although the study was not powered to distinguish definitively between the 150/75 mg and 200/100 
mg doses, both appeared well tolerated; it was therefore decided to advance the higher of the doses for 
study in the Phase III trial (Study VER-002-9) in order to achieve and maintain the highest possible 
plasma concentrations. 
•  Main study 
Study VER002-9  
This  is  a  Phase  3,  double-blind,  randomised,  non-inferiority  study  comparing  anidulafungin  and 
fluconazole in the treatment of patients with candidaemia and other forms of invasive candidiasis.  
METHODS 
Study Participants  
One hundred and thirty-one (131) patients were enrolled and randomised to anidulafungin and 125 to 
fluconazole.  The  diagnosis  was  based  on  a  blood  culture  or  a  culture  from  another  normally  sterile 
site.  Osteomyelitis  and  endocarditis  were  excluded  primarily  because  these  conditions  are  liable  to 
require  especially  long  courses  of  treatment  (the  maximum  duration  of  treatment  allowed  in  this 
protocol  was  42  days),  whilst  meningitis  was  excluded  because  the  blood-brain  permeability  of 
anidulafungin has not been fully defined. 
Other main exclusion criteria were: 
- Patients who received greater than 48 hours of systemic antifungal therapy for the Candida infection 
for which they were enrolled (In amendment #6 the 48-hour restriction was changed to 72 hours).  
- Patients who received prophylactic administration of fluconazole, itraconazole, or voriconazole for 
more than one week within 30 days prior to enrolment. 
-  Patients  who  had  received  and  who  were  to  continue  to  receive  terfenadine  or  cisapride  (because 
fluconazole is contraindicated in these cases). 
- Known Candida krusei infection (see below for reason). 
- Patients with a known hypersensitivity to echinocandin therapy or azole therapy. 
Only  a  few  patients  were  neutropenic  (defined  as  an  ANC  ≤  500  cells/mm3)  at  baseline,  5  in  the 
anidulafungin and 4 in the fluconazole group (Micro-ITT Population). 
Treatments 
Fluconazole was chosen as comparator in Study VER002-9 on both efficacy and safety considerations.  
Either anidulafungin (100 mg daily preceded by an initial 200 mg dose on Day 1) or fluconazole 
(400  mg  daily  preceded  by  an  initial  800  mg  dose  on  Day  1,  with  adjustments  made  for  renal 
insufficiency) was administered daily by IV infusion for minimum treatment duration of 14 days from 
14/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the time of the last negative culture and improvement of clinical signs and symptoms of candidemia or 
invasive candidiasis. Total treatment duration was not to exceed 42 days.  
In  order  to  facilitate  maintenance  of  the  blind,  patients  were  excluded  if  they  had  known  C.  krusei 
infection,  since  this  organism  is  known  to  be  resistant  to  fluconazole,  and  were  discontinued  from 
study/study  drug  if  cultures  revealed  this  organism  after  enrolment.  For  other  (non-krusei)  baseline 
species that were fluconazole-resistant, the investigator was to make the decision whether to continue 
on study medication according to the clinical and microbiological criteria customary to that hospital. 
C. glabrata seems to have been often excluded because it is less susceptible to fluconazole. 
Although  the  investigator  was  “encouraged”  to  continue  IV  therapy  if  at  all  possible,  the  protocol 
allowed for a patient from either treatment group to be switched to oral fluconazole for the remainder 
of treatment if the investigator felt it was appropriate to do so, if the patient had been afebrile for at 
least 24 hours and if the last blood culture was negative for Candida species.  
Removal  of  central  venous  catheters,  if  possible,  is  generally  recommended  in  the  management  of 
candidaemia.  Consequently  in  the  overwhelming  majority  of  the  patients  the  IV  catheters  were 
removed because the infections were attributed to the catheter by the investigator.   
All Candida isolates were sent to a reference laboratory, where isolates were re-identified and tested to 
determine MICs of anidulafungin and other antifungal agents. 
Objectives 
Primary: To determine if anidulafungin is at least as effective as fluconazole with respect to the global 
response (clinical and microbiological outcome at the end of IV therapy) in the treatment of patients 
with a diagnosis of candidemia and/or other forms of invasive candidiasis. 
Secondary:  To  compare  anidulafungin  to  fluconazole  in  this  patient  population  for  safety,  the 
prevention of late infections, and the clinical and microbiological efficacy at various time points. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Definitions 
Intent-to-Treat  (ITT)  Population:  All  patients  who  received  at  least  one  dose  of  study  medication 
were included in the ITT population. 
Microbiological Intent-to-Treat (Micro-ITT) Population: All patients who received at least one dose 
of study medication and who had a positive culture for Candida species from a normally sterile site 
preferably within 96 hours before entry into the study were included in the Micro-ITT population.  
Modified Micro-ITT Population: All patients who were in the Micro-ITT population and had a global 
response other than indeterminate at the end of IV therapy time point were included in the modified 
Micro-ITT population. This population was used in the analysis of the global response at the end of IV 
therapy time point only. 
Primary efficacy endpoint 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the successful Global (clinical and microbiological) response at the 
end of IV therapy (EOIVT). EOIVT was chosen as the test of cure (TOC) for the primary endpoint. 
The Micro-ITT population (microbiologic intent-to-treat) was the primary efficacy population. In the 
global response assessment, a patient was categorized as a success if there was both a clinical success 
and  microbiological  success.  Clinical  success  however  included  cure  and  improvement  in  the 
definition:  cure  meant  resolution  of  signs  and  symptoms  of  the  Candida  infection;  no  additional 
systemic  antifungal  treatment,  or  oral  fluconazole  required  to  complete  the  course  of  therapy. 
15/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Improvement  meant  significant,  but  incomplete  resolution  of  signs  and  symptoms  of  the  Candida 
infection; no additional systemic antifungal treatment, or additional oral fluconazole required. 
Microbiological success at the patient and pathogen level was defined as eradication (documented or 
presumed) whereby the culture was negative for all Candida species present at baseline (documented), 
or culture data were not available for a patient with a successful clinical response (presumed). 
A patient was categorized as a failure if there was either a clinical or microbiological failure (excluded 
clinical and microbiological responses of indeterminate). A patient was categorized as indeterminate if 
there  was  a  clinical  and/or  microbiological  response  of  indeterminate  and  neither  response  was  a 
failure. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints  
These included global response at all secondary time points in the Micro-ITT population and global 
response at all time points in the efficacy evaluable population; and clinical response at all time points 
in the Micro-ITT and efficacy evaluable populations. 
The  Efficacy  Evaluable  population  was  a  subset  of  the  Micro-ITT  population.  To  be  included  in  an 
efficacy  evaluable  population,  a  patient  had  no  protocol  violations  affecting  the  time  point  for  the 
population being considered. 
Other secondary efficacy endpoints included, patient level microbiological response at all time points 
in the Micro-ITT and efficacy evaluable populations; and pathogen level microbiological response in 
the Micro-ITT and efficacy evaluable populations at the end of IV therapy and 2 week FU time points 
only. 
Death  directly  attributable  to  invasive  candidiasis/candidaemia  and  all  cause  mortality  were  also 
assessed. 
At  the  end  of  oral  therapy,  clinical  success  was  defined  as  complete  resolution  or  significant 
improvement  of  signs  and  symptoms  of  the  Candida  infection;  no  additional  systemic  antifungal 
treatment required. At the follow-up (FU) visits success was defined similarly but it included success 
outcome at the end of IV therapy plus FU 2week visit success for the 6 week FU visit. 
Sample size 
If it was assumed that the two treatments were equally effective with global efficacy success rates of 
70%  at  the  end  of  IV  therapy,  111  patients  per  treatment  group  were  required  to  ensure  with  90% 
probability (i.e., 90% power) that the lower bound of a 2-sided 95% confidence interval (CI) for the 
true difference in efficacy (anidulafungin minus fluconazole) was not less than -20%. The Micro-ITT 
population was the primary efficacy population. It was expected that less than 10% of patients would 
not  have  a  Candida  species  and  thus,  not  be  included  in  the  Micro-ITT  population.  Therefore,  248 
patients were to be enrolled to obtain 222 Micro-ITT patients. 
Assuming that 25% of the enrolled patients would not be efficacy evaluable at the end of IV therapy, 
there  would  be  186  patients,  or  93  per  treatment  group,  in  the  secondary  analysis  (evaluable) 
population. This would provide at least 80% power to ensure that the lower bound of a 2-sided 95% 
confidence interval (CI) for the true difference in efficacy (anidulafungin minus fluconazole) was not 
less than -20%. 
Randomisation 
Patients were stratified according to their APACHE  II score (≤20 and > 20) and absolute neutrophil 
count (ANC) (≤500 and >500). The patients were then randomly assigned (1:1 ratio) to receive either 
IV anidulafungin or IV fluconazole according to a centralized,  automated interactive voice response 
system (IVRS). 
16/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blinding (masking) 
All unit doses of study drug were prepared at the study sites by designated unblinded members of the 
clinical pharmacy staff or study staff. The person assigned this responsibility did not anticipate in the 
care  or  evaluation  of  the  patient.  The  unblinded  staff  member  was  not  permitted  to  administer  the 
study  medication  to  the  patient.  The  study  medication  was  given  to  the  Investigator  or  to  the 
Investigators  (blinded)  designee  for  administration  to  the  study  patient.  The  study  coordinator  and 
Investigator  remained  blinded  to  the  study  medication  used  by  any  individual  patient.  The  total 
volume for infusion and infusion rate were identical for both study arms.   
Statistical methods 
The protocol specified that anidulafungin would be considered non-inferior to fluconazole if the lower 
bound  of  the  95%  CI  (calculated  around  the  difference  between  the  global  response  rates  of  the  2 
treatment  groups)  exceeded  -20%.    A  2-step  analysis  was  specified:  should  non-inferiority  be 
demonstrated at the primary endpoint, a further test for superiority (lower bound of 95% CI > 0) would 
also  be  performed.  The  applicant  states  that  the  chosen  wide  delta  of  -20%  has  been  influenced  by 
previously reported studies in echinocandins, though in retrospect a narrower value might have been 
preferable. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Two hundred sixty-one (261) patients were randomised to treatment, 256 patients received at least one 
dose of study medication, and 174 (174/256, 68.0%) completed the study through the 6-week follow-
up. 
A summary of patient disposition is presented in the following table: 
Table 3   Patient disposition and reasons for withdrawal 
Category 
Event  
Total randomized  
Intent-to-Treat 
Total completed the study through 6 week follow-up  
Total discontinued from study prior to 6 week follow-up     
  Death 
  Patient lost to follow-up  
Total completed full course of study medicationc  
Total withdrawn from study medicationd  
   Adverse Event  
  Patient Withdrew Consent  
  Patient Noncompliant  
Worsening Clinical Status/Lack of Efficacy  
Anidulafungin  
n (%)  
132  
131  
94 (71.8)  
37 (28.2) 
29 (22.1)a 
8 (6.1)  
97 (74.0) 
34 (26.0) 
12 (9.2) 
5 (3.8)  
1 (0.8)  
11 (8.4)  
5 (3.8)  
0  
0  
Fluconazole  
n (%)  
129  
125  
80 (64.0)  
45 (36.0) 
38 (30.4)b 
7 (5.6)  
77 (61.6) 
48 (38.4) 
21 (16.8)  
4 (3.2)  
0  
16 (12.8)  
5 (4.0)  
1 (0.8)e  
1 (0.8)  
 Investigator Discretion  
Vicuron’s Request  
Patient Lost To Follow-Up  
NOTE: Percentages are based on the ITT population. 
a: Patient 27-003 died after the 6-week follow-up period and is not included in this table. 
b: Patient 40-014 was counted as completing the study through the 6-week follow-up period on the CRF termination page 
with a completion date of 11 Aug 2004, although the patient died on the same day and was counted in the number of deaths 
in the time to death. 
c: .Total completed full course of study medication refers to completion of IV and oral (if applicable) study medication. 
d: For each patient who withdrew from study medication, only 1 reason (the primary) for withdrawal is tabulated. 
e: Patient 07-008 had study medication discontinued by Sponsor request due to a diagnosis of cryptococcal meningitis. 
17/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of the patients who received at least one dose of study medication 131 patients were randomised to 
anidulafungin  and  125  to  fluconazole  (ITT  population).  The  rate  of  withdrawal  from  the  study  was 
higher in the fluconazole arm mainly due to death before the 6-week follow-up visit or due to adverse 
event (AE) or for lack of efficacy. 
Twenty-eight  (28)  patients  in  the  anidulafungin  arm  and  34  patients  in  the  fluconazole  arm  had 
protocol violations that led to exclusion from the efficacy evaluable population at end of IV therapy. 
Overall, the most common protocol violations were indeterminate clinical response at 6-week follow-
up visit and indeterminate clinical response at 2-week follow-up visit for patients in both study arms.  
Baseline data 
The  two  treatment  groups  were  well  balanced  with  respect  to  baseline  and  demographic 
characteristics.  However,  there  were  numerically  more  patients  in  the  fluconazole  group  who  had  a 
risk factor of immunosuppressive therapy (22.9% vs. 14.2% for anidulafungin) listed at baseline.  
In  both treatment  groups  fluconazole  was  the  most  frequently  used  prior  antifungal  agent,  62.6%  of 
patients  in  the  anidulafungin  group  vs.  and  68.8%  in  the  control  arm.  This  was  followed  by 
caspofungin/amphotericin B (in 4- 6%/ approximately 5% of the patients respectively per arm). The 
majority of patients who received prior fluconazole took it within 48 hours of study start, presumably 
for empiric therapy for invasive candidiasis. Nine (9) patients (7 in the anidulafungin arm and 2 in the 
fluconazole  arm)  had  prophylactic  low  dose  fluconazole  therapy of  less  than  7  days  duration  before 
the first dose of study medication. In a few cases (3 anidulafungin-treated patients and 2 fluconazole 
treated  patients),  the  prior  fluconazole  use  (of  >3  days)  was  the  protocol  violation  that  made  the 
patients  not  efficacy  evaluable  at  end  of  IV.  A  few  patients  in  both  treatment  arms  received  non-
protocol-specified antifungal medication while taking study medication. 
For both arms, approximately half of all patients had invasive candidiasis related to an IV catheter by 
investigator  assessment.  Most  (95.2%  anidulafungin;  85.9%  fluconazole)  of  these  patients  had  the 
catheter removed as part of the medical management for invasive candidiasis/candidemia. 
Numbers analysed 
Greater  than  90%  of  patients  had  a  baseline  Candida  species  and  were  included  in  the  Micro-ITT 
population.  The  Micro-ITT  population  was  comprised  of  245  patients;  127  (127/131,  96.9%)  in  the 
anidulafungin  arm  and  118  (118/125,  94.4%)  in  the  fluconazole  arm.  The  Efficacy  Evaluable 
population  at  the  end  of  IV  therapy  was  a  subset  of  the  Micro-ITT  population.  The  percentage  of 
patients  evaluable  for  efficacy  was  78.6%  for  the  anidulafungin  arm  compared  with  72.8%  for  the 
fluconazole arm. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Most  patients  were  not  switched  to  oral  fluconazole,  but  completed  treatment  with  IV  therapy  in 
74.0% 71.2% in the anidulafungin and fluconazole arm respectively. Overall median exposure to study 
drug (IV plus oral) was 15 days for the anidulafungin group and 14 days for the fluconazole group. 
In the primary efficacy analysis, anidulafungin was statistically superior to fluconazole in the global 
response at the end of IV therapy in the Micro-ITT population, the global success rates were 96/127 
(75.6%)  and  71/118  (60.2%)  respectively.  The  between  group  difference  (anidulafungin  minus 
fluconazole) in global success rate was 15.42% (95% CI: 3.85, 26.99).   
18/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4   Global Success Rates in ICC in study VER002-9 
End of IV 
therapy 
End of oral 
therapy 
End of all 
therapy 
Micro-ITT 
Population‡ 
Evaluable 
Population  
Micro-ITT 
Population 
Evaluable 
Population  
Micro-ITT 
Population 
Evaluable 
Population  
Anidulafungin 
n/N (%) 
 96 /127 (75.6%)  
Fluconazole 
 n/N (%) 
 71/118 (60.2%)  
 90/103 (87.4%)  
 68 /91 (74.7%)  
31/33 (93.9%)  
28/33 (84.8%)  
28/30 (93.3%) 
26/27 (96.3%) 
94/127 (74.0%)  
67/118 (56.8%)  
88/103 (85.4%) 
64/87 (73.6%) 
Trt Diff (%)† 
(95% CI) 
15.42 
(3.85, 26.99) 
12.65 
(1.66, 23.65) 
9.09 
(-5.60, 23.79) 
-2.96 
(-14.38, 8.46) 
17.24 
(5.49, 28.99) 
11.87 
(0.37, 23.37) 
‡ Primary endpoint 
† Treatment difference for anidulafungin minus fluconazole.  
In a post-hoc analysis, comparison of the two arms in patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy 
(in  the  Micro-ITT  population)  as  a  risk  factor  for  invasive  candidiasis  revealed  that  12/18  (66%) 
anidulafungin-treated patients had global success at the end of IV therapy, compared to 16/27 (59.3%) 
of fluconazole-treated patients.  
In  all  secondary  efficacy  analyses,  success  for  the  anidulafungin  arm  was  greater  than  fluconazole 
(end of all therapy and 2-week follow-up time points), or at least as effective as fluconazole (end of 
oral therapy and 6-week follow-up time points), consistent with the primary efficacy analysis. Results 
in the efficacy evaluable populations were similar. 
In  a  modified  Micro-ITT  analysis  of  the  primary  efficacy  population  (minus  patients  whose  global 
response was indeterminate) the global response at the end of IV therapy anidulafungin was superior 
to fluconazole with success rate of 96/109 (88.1%) vs. 71/95 (74.7%) for fluconazole (95% CI: 2.69, 
23.98); the corresponding failure rates in the treatment arms were approx. 12% and 25% respectively.  
The  applicant  provided  a  separate  analysis  of  cured  patients  using  a  revised  definition  of  success 
(patients  meeting  the  definition  of  Improvement  would  be  considered  failures).  The  results  are 
consistent with the original conclusion on non-inferiority of anidulafungin to fluconazole at the tested 
dose levels. See the following table. 
Table 5   Global Response Rates for the Microbiologic ITT Population End of IV therapy 
95% 
Confidence 
Interval 
Between group 
difference 
Fluconazole 
N = 118 
ECALTA 
N = 127 
Per SAP* 
Success 
Revised definition 
Success 
*: Original Statistical Analysis Plan 
96 (75.6) 
86 (67.7) 
71 (60.2) 
68 (57.6) 
15.42 
10.09 
(3.85, 26.99) 
(-1.98, 22.16) 
Similarly, the results of the given additional analysis according to prior antifungal therapy inclusion 
criteria of the study are consistent with the primary global response results.  
The microbiological success rates are shown in the following table. 
19/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6   Pathogen-Level Microbiological Response at End of IV Therapy 
Species a  
Response (Success %) 
All Species  
        Eradication  
        Presumed Eradication  
Candida albicans 
VER002-9  Micro-ITT Population  
Anidulafungin N/n (%) 
100 mg 
Fluconazole N/n (%) 
400 mg 
119/135 (88.1) 
92 (68.1)  
27 (20.0)  
77/81 (95.1) 
99/130 (76.2) 
77 (59.2) 
22 (16.9) 
57/70 (81.4) 
42/54 (77.8) 
15/20 (75.0) 
13/15  (86.7) 
9/13 (69.2) 
Non-albicans species  
Candida glabrata  
Candida tropicalis  
Candida parapsilosis  
 a: By-species data are presented only for species for which there were 10 or more isolates across the three studies combined. 
The non-albicans species data therefore includes success rates for species that are not displayed individually (these included 1-
2 per species in all cases). 
N:  Number of patients where the culture is negative for Candida species that were originally present at baseline or culture 
data are not available for a patient with a clinical outcome of cure or improvement. 
n:  Total number of patients at the end of IV therapy in the Micro ITT population infected with the respective pathogen at 
baseline  
42/60 (70.0) 
18/30 (60.0) 
7/11 (63.6) 
14/16 (87.5) 
Overall, the success rates for patients infected with the major pathogens C. albicans and C. glabrata 
were clearly higher in the anidulafungin arm than in the fluconazole arm. At  the end of IV therapy, 
only 8 (5.9%) of patients treated with anidulafungin had documented persistence of Candida infection 
(2/8  were  C.  albicans  infected),  compared  with  17  (13.1%)  of  the  patients  treated  with  fluconazole 
(9/13 were C. albicans infected). All but 1 of the 8 patients in the anidulafungin arm had candidaemia 
only at baseline and all 17 patients in the fluconazole arm. 
There was no evident trend relating anidulafungin MIC for baseline isolates to the rate of eradication 
by  anidulafungin.  However,  there  were  relatively  few  baseline  pathogens  with  MICs  above  0.06, 
11/16 were noted for C. parapsilosis, these seem to be associated with lower response at the end of IV 
therapy than for other C. albicans and C. glabrata. Also for the fluconazole treatment arm, there was 
no  evident  trend  relating  fluconazole  MIC  for  baseline  isolates  to  the  rate  of  eradication  by 
fluconazole. However, the number of isolates with fluconazole MIC > 8 mg/l was too small for any 
meaningful  comparison.  There  were  relatively  few  baseline  isolates  that  were  non-susceptible  to 
fluconazole (48-h MIC > 8 mg/l) in VER002-9 (32/242 isolates, 13.2%).  
Global response at the follow-up time points 2 and 6 weeks are summarised in the following table. 
Table 7   Global Success Rates at Follow-up 
2-WEEK FU 
Micro-ITT Population 
Anidulafungin 
n/N (%) 
 82/127 (64.6%)  
Fluconazole  
n/N (%) 
 58/118 (49.2%)  
Evaluable Population 
 71/88 (80.7%)  
 51/76 (67.1%)  
6-WEEK FU 
Micro-ITT Population 
 71/127 (55.9%)  
 52/118 (44.1%)  
Evaluable Population  
 59/79 (74.7%)  
 43/69 (62.3%)  
† Treatment difference for anidulafungin minus fluconazole.  
Trt Diff  † 
% (95% CI) 
15.41% 
(3.14, 27.68) 
13.58% 
(0.17, 26.98) 
11.84% 
(-0.60, 24.28) 
12.36% 
(-2.56, 27.29) 
Subgroup  analyses.    Global  success  rate  at  the  end  of  IV  therapy  in  the  different  subgroups  of  the 
Micro-ITT population and the mortality are summarised in the following table. 
20/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
Table 8   Global Success at end of iv therapy for various subgroups (Micro-ITT Population) and 
Mortality in the study 
IA = intra-abdominal. 
a:   Anidulafungin minus fluconazole. 
b:   Only subpopulation for which 95% confidence interval for between group difference was specified a priori to be  
      calculated.  Lower bound of confidence interval was greater than zero, indicating superiority of anidulafungin. 
c:   Relationship as assessed by Investigator at screening 
d:   Patient 27-003 died after the 6-week follow-up period and is not included in this table. 
e:   Fishers Exact Test on the proportion of patients who died. 
Patients  receiving  anidulafungin  had  a  higher  proportion  of  global  success  at  the  end  of  IV  therapy 
across  age  groups  (≤65  years  vs.  >  65  years)  and  gender.  The  results  in  patients  with  poor  (> 20) 
APACHE II scores were worse in both treatment groups.  It is possible, though not certain, that the 
apparent  slight  differences  observed  for  sex  and  racial  groups  reflect  some  other  underlying 
confounding factor(s), such as APACHE II scores, but no consistent pattern was detected. 
There were too few (<5) neutropenic patients (defined as an ANC ≤ 500 cells/mm3) at baseline in both 
arms to allow appropriate conclusions. The same holds for candidiasis at other sites than blood stream 
(mainly peritoneal fluid and/or IA abscess were involved). 
Complications  (of  the  candidaemia)  were  also  evaluated;  3  in  each  treatment  arm  developed  late 
complications:  in  the  anidulafungin  group  1  patient  developed  endophthalmitis  (was  negative  at 
baseline), 1 patient developed a positive Candida culture from a normally sterile site and 1 patient had 
recurrence  of  C.  albicans at  6-week  FU  visit.  Similarly,  in  the  fluconazole  group 1  patient  per  each 
category complication occurred.  
Among  patients  who  died  in  the  Micro-ITT  population,  (anidulafungin:  29/127  deaths,  22.8%; 
fluconazole: 37/118 deaths, 31.4%), the median time to death was 14 days for fluconazole and 21 days 
for anidulafungin. In almost all deaths (except for 1-2 per arm) the cause of death was not considered 
due to candidaemia. 
•  Supportive studies 
Study  VER002-9B  was  an  open-label,  non-comparative,  multi-centre  additional  study  of VER002-9 
which ultimately enrolled 33 patients. Apart from the lack of a comparator arm, its design was very 
similar to that of the pivotal study—including, for instance, the provision for switching therapy to oral 
fluconazole under certain conditions—but it differed in that it permitted the enrolment of patients with 
certain  characteristics  that  would  have  rendered  them  ineligible  for  pivotal  study  VER002-9, 
21/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
specifically:  prophylactic  administration  of  fluconazole,  itraconazole,  or  voriconazole  for  at  least  1 
week within the 30 days prior to enrolment; current treatment with terfenadine or cisapride; known C. 
krusei infection; known hypersensitivity to azole therapy. 
After  the  pivotal  study  was  closed  to  enrolment,  the  Study  VER002-9B  protocol  was  amended  to 
allow for enrolment of patients who did not meet the above criteria. Common invasive candidiasis risk 
factors  observed  were  presence  of  a  central  venous  catheter,  use  of  broad-spectrum  antibiotics,  and 
recent surgery. Approximately half of all patients had invasive candidiasis related to an IV catheter by 
Investigator assessment. Most (94%) of these patients had the catheter removed as part of the medical 
management  for  invasive  candidiasis.  The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  for  VER002-9B  was  like  in 
VER002-9 the global response at the end of IV therapy in the Micro-ITT population. 
Results:  The global success rate at the end of therapy in the Micro-ITT Population was 21/31 (67.7%) 
and  12/17  (70.6%)  in  the  evaluable  patient  population.  In  the  patients  with  candidaemia  the  global 
success rate was 18/28 (64.3). There were only 3 patients with infections at other site and 6 patients 
with APACHE II Score > 20 with global success rates reported in 3/3 and 3/6 patients respectively. 
Global success in 30/31 patients who had their catheter removed was 20/30 (66.7). 
The  global,  clinical  and  microbiological  success  was  sustained  at  the  same  level  from  the  2-week 
through  the  6-week  FU  visit.  Patient-level  microbiological  success  was  observed  for  80.6%  (25/31) 
patients in the Micro-ITT population at the end of IV therapy.  
For  the  most  common  baseline  pathogens  of  C.  albicans  (13)  and  C.  glabrata  (12)  microbiological 
success  was  approx.  92%  (patients  where  the  culture  is  negative  for  Candida  species  that  were 
originally present at baseline or culture data are not available for a patient with a clinical outcome of 
cure or improvement) at the end of IV therapy.  
Seven patients (22.6%) died during the study, with a median time to death of 13 days. One patient who 
received 3 days of anidulafungin developed a late complication of endophthalmitis.  
Overall, the global success rate in the Micro-ITT population at EOT was somewhat lower than in the 
pivotal study.  
- Study VER002-6 was an open-label, Phase II, randomised dose-ranging study in patients (>18 years 
of  age)  diagnosed  with  invasive  Candida  infections.  Three  doses  were  studied  (with  40  patients  in 
each dosage arm): maintenance doses of 50, 75 and 100 mg daily (each following a loading dose of 
twice  the  maintenance  dose  (on  Day  1).  Diagnosis  was  based  on  blood  or  tissue  section  culture 
positive for Candida and had clinical evidence of infection and (unless they were considered treatment 
failures) had not exceeded predetermined cumulative doses of other antifungal agents in the previous 7 
days.  This  study  contained  no  provision  for  switch  to  oral  antifungal  therapy.  Patients  were  to  be 
treated until 2 weeks beyond the cure or improvement of clinical signs and symptoms of infection and 
the  (presumed)  eradication  of  the  original  pathogen.  The  maximum  duration  of  therapy  was  not  to 
exceed 42 days. In this study the primary efficacy end point was the global response at 2 week follow-
up in the evaluable at follow-up population.  
Results: For the primary efficacy end point of global (clinical and microbiological) response at follow-
up (FU), success was seen in 72.2% (13/18), 84.6% (22/26) and 83.3% (20/24) of the evaluable at FU 
population (50 mg group; 75 mg group and 100 mg group respectively). See the following table. 
22/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9   Global success in study VER002-6 
Anidulafungin Dose 
75 mg/day 
n/N (%) 
50 mg/day 
n/N (%) 
Population 
Timepoint 
Micro-ITT 
End of Therapy  
2-week Follow-up  
Efficacy Evaluable 
21/25 (84) 
End of therapy  
2-week Follow-upa  
13/18 (72) 
a:  The evaluable at follow-up population is the primary population 
27/30 (90) 
22/26 (85) 
30/40 (75) 
23/40 (58) 
25/37 (68) 
14/37 (38) 
100 mg/day 
n/N (%) 
27/39 (69) 
20/39 (51) 
25/28 (89) 
20/24 (83) 
All Patients 
n/N (%) 
82/116 (71) 
57/116 (49) 
73/83 (88) 
55/68 (81) 
The secondary efficacy analyses of global response at FU and EOT in the Micro-ITT and evaluable at 
EOT  populations  were  also  consistent  in  that  the  two  higher  dose  groups  had  a  greater  success  rate 
than the lower 50mg dose group. The study was not powered to distinguish among doses for efficacy, 
and  confidence  intervals  overlapped  among  dosage  groups  for  both  primary  and  secondary  efficacy 
parameters of global success. The higher responses in the two higher dosage groups, however, suggest 
a dose response. 
Microbiological  success  at  the  end  of  IV  therapy  in  the  Micro-ITT  population  displayed  in  the 
following table.  
Table 10   Pathogen-Level Microbiological Response at End of IV Therapy: Micro-ITT 
Population  
Species a  
Response (Success %) 
All Species  
Candida albicans  
Non-albicans species  
Candida glabrata  
Candida tropicalis  
Candida parapsilosis  
VER002-6 
100 mg 
35/42 (83.3) 
16/22 (72.7) 
19/20 
(95.0) 
15/15 (100.0) 
2/3  
1/1  
Anidulafungin N/n (%) 
75mg 
33/43 (76.7) 
16/20 (80.0) 
17/23 
(73.9) 
7/10 (70.0) 
4/6  
4/4 
50mg 
31/42 (73.8) 
15/20 (75.0) 
16/22 
(72.7) 
8/11 (72.7) 
0 
5/6  
a: By-species data are presented only for species for which there were 10 or more isolates across the three studies 
combined. The non-albicans species data therefore includes success rates for species that are not displayed 
individually. 
N:  Number of patients where the culture is negative for Candida species that were originally present at baseline 
or culture data are not available for a patient with a clinical outcome of cure or improvement. 
n:  Total number of patients at the end of IV therapy in the Micro ITT population infected with the respective 
pathogen at baseline 
Overall, the global success rate in the Micro-ITT population at EOT supports the choice of the 100 mg 
daily  dose  (following  a  loading  dose  of  200  mg)  for  further  clinical  testing  in  Phase  III  trials.  The 
latter global success rate was somewhat lower than in the pivotal study. However, the similarity of the 
efficacy results of the 100 mg daily dose (following a loading dose of 200 mg) with those from the 
pivotal  study  cannot  be  appropriately  assessed,  especially,  because  administration  of  systemic 
antifungals within the 7 days prior to enrolment was allowed in contrast to the pivotal study. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Anidulafungin performed favourably at the recommended dose in the primary efficacy analysis (global 
response  at  end  of  IV  therapy  in  the  Micro-ITT  population)  compared  to  fluconazole  in  the  pivotal 
randomised controlled clinical trial in the treatment of patients with ICC (the sought indication) who 
were primarily non-neutropenic and with candidaemia. At all secondary endpoints, anidulafungin was 
23/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
at least as effective as fluconazole, although the global response rates to treatments decreased at 2 and 
6 weeks FU time points e.g in the Micro-ITT Population to 82/127 (64.6%) and 71/127 (55.9%) resp. 
in the anidulafungin arm versus 58/118 (49.2%) and 52/118 (44.1%) in the fluconazole arm. 
However, a number of caveats have been considered: 
-The global success category in the pivotal study is based on the clinical and microbiological success 
components.  Clinical  success  included  cured  and  improved  patients.  Separate  analyses  of  cured 
patients were required in order to gain better insight into the favourable results of anidulafungin versus 
fluconazole and to draw definitive conclusions in that respect. The provided additional analysis using 
the revised definition of success (patients meeting the definition of Improvement would be considered 
failures)  showed  results  which  were  consistent  with  the  original  conclusion  on  non-inferiority  of 
anidulafungin to fluconazole at the tested dose levels. 
- The used comparator fluconazole IV/oral has a narrower activity spectrum (C. krusei is intrinsically 
resistant  to  fluconazole  and  C.  glabrata  has  reduced  susceptibility)  than  echinocandins  and 
amphotericin  B  and  voriconazole  and  this  dictated  that  patients  with  certain  non-albicans  infections 
(C. krusei) were excluded from the study. On the other hand, the safety profile of fluconazole is more 
favourable than that of amphotericin B.  
-The  used  dosage  of  fluconazole  (initial  800  mg  than  400  mg  daily)  in  this  study  is  the  highest 
approved in many EU countries and is in line with recent consensus publications and guidelines on the 
treatment  of  invasive  candidiasis  in  non-neutropenic  patients  although  for  seriously  ill  neutropenic 
patients  with  disseminated  candidiasis  (incl.  candidaemia  and  pulmonary  involvement  and  Candida 
peritonitis) it might not be a first choice as initial therapy (even at higher doses) 1, 2. 
-The  chosen  non-inferiority  margin  in  this  comparative  can  be  criticised  as  being  too  wide  (20%). 
However,  in  the  light  of  the  fact  that  the  observed  lower  limit  of  the  confidence  interval  for  the 
treatment  difference  between  anidulafungin  and  fluconazole  was  greater  than  zero  in  the  primary 
analysis  and  consistent  findings  across  different  secondary  analyses  for  the  differences  between  the 
treatments: the lower limit of the 95% CI was generally positive with a few exceptions- such as for the 
global success rate in the small subgroup of clinically evaluable patients end of oral therapy (-14.38) 
and  for  the  global  success  rate  in  the  clinically  evaluable  patients  -2.56  at  the  6  week  FU,  further 
discussion is deemed unnecessary.   
-The primary endpoint assessment at the end of IV therapy can also be criticised for this indication; 
assessment at follow-up of at least 2 weeks after treatment would have been preferable. However, FU 
results at 2 and 6 weeks are also presented in the secondary analyses and seem to be consistent with 
the  efficacy  profile  in  the  primary  analysis  in  the  end  of  IV  therapy  Micro-ITT  population  which 
focussed on successful global response (includes clinical and microbiological success).  
-Slight imbalance in the number of patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy (larger number in 
the fluconazole group) was observed. The applicant confirmed with an additional analysis that this did 
not  impact  on  the  global  response  profile  of  the  Micro-ITT  population  to  the  study  treatments.  The 
provided additional clarification was satisfactory. 
-For a better interpretation of the observed favourable results the subgroup analyses of the clinical and 
microbiological  response  were  required  for  the  group  of  patients  who  received  prior  systemic 
antifungal  therapy  up  to  72  hours  before  entering  the  study3  or  receiving  study  treatment  and  in  the 
group of patients who did not receive relevant antifungal therapy within 14 days before entering the 
1 Büchner T et al. Treatment of severe candida infections in high-risk patients in Germany: consensus formed by 
a panel of interdisciplinary investigators. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 2002; 21:337-52 
2 IDSA guidelines. “Guidelines for Treatment of Candidiasis” Pappas PG et al. in Clinical Infectious 
Diseases    2004;38:161-189. 
3 In the present study roughly 2/3 of the patients had prior antifungal therapy up to 72 hours when they were 
entered. 
24/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
study.  The provided additional analysis according to prior antifungal therapy inclusion criteria of the 
study showed results which were consistent with the primary global response results. 
-  The  very  small  numbers  of  neutropenic  patients  preclude  reliable  conclusions  for  comparisons 
between treatment groups. Hence, the efficacy of anidulafungin in this population is not established. 
Similarly, only, approx. 20% of patients had APACHE II scores>20 and less than 10% of the patients 
Candida  infection  at  other  sites  than  blood  stream  (candidaemia  was  present  in  more  than  90%  of 
patients). This cannot be considered sufficient to reach definitive conclusion on efficacy and optimal 
dose of anidulafungin in such seriously ill patients or patients infected at other sites than blood stream 
even  when  the  other  small  invasive  candidiasis  studies  in  the  dossier  are  taken  into  account.  Most 
patients had only a single baseline species isolated; C. albicans (isolated from 62% of patients) and C. 
glabrata  (isolated  from  20%  of  patients)  were  the  baseline  pathogens  most  frequently  isolated  from 
both  the  fluconazole  and  anidulafungin  arms.  Non-albicans  infections  other  than  C.  glabrata  were 
very  limited  and  insufficient  to  reach  definitive  conclusions  with  regard  to  the  efficacy  of 
anidulafungin against these infections.  
To allow appropriate assessment of the optimal dose in patients with severe and complicated invasive 
candidiasis at other sites than blood stream and including neutropenic patients, comparative data will 
be necessary.  
The  underrepresented  diagnoses  at  other  sites  than  blood  stream,  and  almost  exclusively  non-
neutropenic patients in conjunction with the low proportion of subjects with APACHE II scores > 20  
dictates a restriction of the generalised claim in Applicant’s wording of the indication.  
-  The  provided  PK/PD  data  were  considered  too  limited  and  do  not  contribute  to  adequately 
characterise  the  effect  of  anidulafungin  exposure  on  clinical  response  and  safety  parameters,  and 
pharmacokinetics and in vitro susceptibility (such as AUC/MIC and time above MIC). Further data on 
PK/PD  to  support  optimal  dosing  in  a  broader  indication  is  needed.  The  applicant  should  consider 
further studies in this area within the context of a post-approval commitment.  
- As noted before under PK, in the population pharmacokinetic analysis, the weight effect was within 
about  30%  comparing  the  extremes  of  the  weight  borders  (40  and  150  kg)  with  the  normal  weight 
group  (70  kg).  The  applicant  was  asked  to  further  explore  what  the  impact  is  on  clinical  outcome 
(safety  and  efficacy)  in  the  pivotal  study  VER002-9  since  such  analysis  was  lacking  in  the  study 
report. The given additional analyses indicate no adverse impact  on efficacy whereas the number of 
patients on the low end of the weight spectrum (n=12) is too small to allow any indicative conclusions 
regarding  safety.  For  this  outstanding  issue  the  applicant  has  committed  to  undertake  a  specific 
reporting obligation of the issue in the regular PSURs.  
Clinical safety 
Safety  data  has  been  submitted  on  invasive  candidiasis  (ICC)  patients  exposed  to  the  presently 
proposed dosage (100 mg maintenance dosage after a loading dose of 200 mg). In addition, safety data 
has  been  submitted  from  the  previously  sought  indication  Oesophageal  Candidiasis  (including  the 
phase  III  Study  VER002-4  in  OeC),  in  which  a  a  2-fold  lower  dosage  of  anidulafungin  were  used 
(50 mg  after  a  loading  dose  of  100  mg)    The  patients  with  OeC  from  Study  VER002-4,  were  less 
critically ill than patients with ICC. Because of the lower dosage and different indication /population, 
the  OeC  data  are  discussed  only  as  supplementary  information  by  way  of  contrast  wherever 
appropriate. Comparisons between drugs is focused on the integrated ICC population and to a lesser 
extent on the large OeC population from Study VER002-4. Aspects of safety that may be peculiar to 
anidulafungin are discussed below under “Special Safety Topics”. 
•  Patient exposure 
The source of the main data sets for safety analysis is displayed in the following table.  
25/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11   Main Datasets for Safety Analysis 
    Dataset 
ICC (100 mg) 
VER002-9, VER002-9B, VER002-6‡, 
Contributing Studies 
OeC (50 mg) 
VER002-4 
        N 
204 anidulafungin; 125 fluconazole* 
300 anidulafungin; 301 fluconazole† 
*oral and IV(400 mg); 
†oral only (200 mg);  
‡ 100 mg arm only 
The median duration of exposure to the recommended dose anidulafungin in the ICC studies was 14 
days  which  was  comparable  to  that  in  the  pivotal  OeC  study  using  the  2-fold  lower  dose  of 
anidulafungin. Altogether in the Phase II/III ICC programme, 5 patients (not from the pivotal study) 
were exposed to IV anidulafungin for more than 42 days, with the longest duration of exposure in any 
patient being 90 days.  In the pivotal ICC study there were no patients exposed to anidulafungin for 
more than 35 days (only 3 were treated 29-35 days). 
Table 12.  Exposure to recommended anidulafungin dose (IV) and fluconazole (oral and IV) in 
ICC Phase II/III studies 
N= 
ICC 
Anidulafungin  
100 mg 
204 
Fluconazole 
400 mg IV 
125* 
≤ 14 days 
> 14 days 
Mean (days) ± SD 
Median 
Range (days) 
*This table shows exposure to drug of randomisation only.   
Note that exposure in days is not always equivalent to number of doses administered 
Doses shown are maintenance doses, equal to half the loading dose.   
For fluconazole, dose was also adjusted for renal insufficiency. 
128 (62.7) 
76 (37.3) 
13.5 ± 6.25 
14.0 
1-38 
90 (72.0) 
35 (28.0) 
12.2 ± 6.51 
11.0 
1-37 
The  demographic  characteristics  were  well  balanced  between  the  anidulafungin  and  fluconazole 
treatment groups (with the exception of immunosuppressive therapy, see under efficacy above). The 
racial composition of the populations varied in accordance with the location of the study sites. Because 
anidulafungin  is  not  metabolised,  and  does  not  appear  to  affect  the  metabolism  of  other  drugs, 
exposure would not be expected to vary by genetic factors which may vary with race.  
•  Adverse events  
Proportionally,  more  all-causality  AEs  were  reported  among  ICC  patients  than  among  OeC  patients 
(98.5% and 79.7% of patients treated with anidulafungin respectively).  This is not unexpected as ICC 
patients were more critically ill, than OeC patients.  A few AEs occurred with greater frequency (≥ 5% 
difference  between  groups)  among  patients  randomised  to  anidulafungin  (nausea,  vomiting  and 
dyspnoea)  or  to  fluconazole  (urinary  tract  infection,  anaemia,  abdominal  pain,  thrombocytopenia, 
anxiety and back pain). 
Among ICC patients, treatment-related AEs occurred in 27.5% of patients treated with anidulafungin 
(vs. 26.4% for fluconazole). This is higher than in the OeC patients [43/300 (14.3%)] exposed to lower 
doses of both antifungals. It is not likely that the higher doses of both anidulafungin and fluconazole 
used in the ICC population have resulted in more treatment-related AEs, since such a trend was not 
noted in anidulafungin dose-ranging Study VER002-6. 
26/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13   Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events, n, (%) 
ICC 
N= 
Patients with at least 1 AE 
(all causality) 
Patients with at least 1 AE 
(treatment-related) 
Patients with at least 1 SAE 
(all causality) 
Patients with at least 1 SAE 
(treatment-related) 
Anidulafungin 100 mg IV 
204 
201 (98.5) 
Fluconazole 400 mg IV 
125 
122 (97.6) 
56 (27.5) 
102 (50.0) 
5 (2.5) 
33 (26.4) 
102 (50.0) 
2 (1.6) 
Relatively  few  treatment-related  AEs  occurred  in  more  than  1%  of  either  treatment  group,  and  only 
diarrhoea  (anidulafungin  ICC)  and  ALT  increased  (fluconazole  ICC)  occurred  in  more  than  3%  of 
patients  in  any  treatment  group,  see  the  following  table.      Altogether  for  anidulafungin-randomised 
patients,  there  were  46  Preferred  AE  Terms  reported  for  the  ICC  population  (only  4  of  which  were 
reported by more than 1 patient). 
Within  the  anidulafungin  group  of  the  integrated  ICC  population,  41  of  the  204  patients  (20.1%) 
changed  therapy  from  anidulafungin  to  oral  fluconazole  as  permitted  by  protocol  34  from  Study 
VER002-9  and  7  from  Study  VER002-9B.  For  the  purposes  of  safety  analysis,  these  patients  were 
analysed  as  members  of  the  anidulafungin  group  even  if  an  AE  was  reported  after  the  change  in 
therapy.  However, when analysis was confined to patients who only received IV anidulafungin, the 
safety profile remains essentially unchanged 
Table 14   Treatment-Related AEs in the ICC (occurring in  ≥ 1% of patients)  
ICC* 
N= 
Patients with at least 1 AE 
Diarrhoea 
Hypokalaemia 
Blood Alk Phos inc. 
ALT inc. 
Flushing 
Blood bilirubin Inc. 
Hypomagnesaemia 
Convulsion 
Headache 
GGT inc. 
AST Inc. 
Rash § 
Blood creatinine inc. 
Coagulopathy 
ECG QT prolonged 
Hyperkalaemia 
Platelet count dec. 
Pruritus 
Thrombocytopenia 
Nausea 
Neutropenia 
Dyspepsia 
Leukopenia 
Vomiting 
Pyrexia 
Hepatic enzyme increased  
Liver function test abnormal  
Anaemia 
Chills  
Anidulafungin 
100 mg 
204‡ 
56 (27.5) 
7 (3.4) 
6 (2.9) 
4 (2.0) 
4 (2.0) 
3 (1.5) 
3 (1.5) 
3 (1.5) 
3 (1.5) 
2 (1.0) 
2 (1.0) 
2 (1.0) 
4 (2.0) 
2 (1.0) 
2 (1.0) 
2 (1.0) 
2 (1.0) 
2 (1.0) 
2 (1.0) 
2 (1.0) 
1 (0.5) 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.5) 
0 
1 (1.1) 
1 (0.5) 
0 
0 
Fluconazole 
400 mg IV 
125 
33 (26.4) 
2 (1.6) 
3 (2.4) 
5 (4.0) 
4 (3.2) 
2 (1.6) 
1 (0.8) 
1 (0.8) 
0 
1 (0.8) 
0 
3 (2.4) 
1 (0.8) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.8) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.8) 
5 (4.0) 
4 (3.2) 
2 (1.6) 
2 (1.6) 
27/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deep vein thrombosis  
Dizziness  
0 
0 
ICC* 
2 (1.6) 
2 (1.6) 
* Studies VER002-9, -9B and 6 (100 mg arm only).  Includes patients from Study VER002-9 whose therapy 
was changed from IV anidulafungin to oral flucaonzole. 
fluconazole.  
§ Also includes ‘rash papular’ and ‘rash macular’. 
‡Includes 41 patients who switched to oral 
A  pronounced  higher  incidence  of  gastrointestinal  AEs  was  observed  in  the  anidulafungin  arm 
compared with the fluconazole arm with nausea in 44 patients (21.6%) vs. 14 (11.2%) and vomiting in 
33 (16.2%) vs. 12 (9.2%).  Due to noted imbalance in the frequencies of nausea and vomiting it was 
judged appropriate to consider nausea and vomiting as being common ADRs. 
With respect to the muscular safety profile of anidulafungin, no specific risk minimisation activities or 
warning in the SmPC is necessary since there is no compelling evidence to suggest that anidulafungin 
is associated with CPK elevations or muscular symptoms over and above what might be expected in 
the target population 
The AE profile of anidulafungin as observed in the Phase I/SP was roughly similar to that described 
above,  however,  the  serious  AEs  e.g  the  hematological  and  cardiovascular  AEs  were  practically 
absent,  most  likely  because  these  subjects  did  not  have  similar  underlying  disease  conditions  and 
concomitant  medication  as  in  the  Phase  II/III  patient  population.  Furthermore,  several  events  were 
reported  in  the  clinical  pharmacology  studies  at  incidences  of  >0.5%  which  were  not  commonly 
reported  in  the  Phase  II/III  studies.    These  included  infusion  site  erythema,  dizziness,  infusion  site 
pain, abdominal pain, dyspnoea, visual disturbance, infusion site swelling and photophobia. Infusion 
reactions and elevated liver enzymes, which were noted in some of these studies, are discussed below. 
Special safety topics 
Infusion-associated  adverse  events:  Results  from  Phase  I  (study  XBAE)  suggested  that  infusion-
related  reactions  could  be  minimized  if  anidulafungin  was  dosed  at  a  rate  of  1.1  mg/min  and  a 
concentration of 0.5 mg/ml. This was implemented in clinical Phase II/III studies.  The incidence of 
infusion-associated adverse events in the latter studies was very low. The present SPC recommends an 
even  slightly  lower  infusion  rate.    Using  MedDRA  terms  of  flushing,  hot  flush,  urticaria,  chills, 
dizziness, feeling hot and hyperhidrosis as search criteria, 4 of 204 (2.0%) anidulafungin-randomised 
and  5  of  125  (4.0%)  fluconazole-randomised  patients  experienced  potentially  infusion-related  AEs.  
No treatment related thrombophlebitis cases were noted in the ICC studies in the anidulafungin treated 
patients.   
Hepatotoxicity. As noted in the previous submission for the OeC indication, at dosage regimens up to 
100 mg daily, there was no apparent effect of anidulafungin on serum concentrations of liver enzymes. 
However, asymptomatic and reversible elevation of transaminases were observed in some of the Phase 
1 studies.  In addition, a dose-response effect on ALT, AST and GGT was suggested by data in dose-
escalation Study VER002-5 (using anidulafungin loading/ maintenance doses of 150/75, 200/100 and 
260/130 mg -each for 10 days). All 8 events in this study were associated with administration of the 
highest dose. In the presently evaluated patients with ICC, AEs of hepatobiliary nature (by Standard 
MedDRA  Query)  were  reported  at  similar  frequency in  the  anidulafungin  and  fluconazole  treatment 
groups.  Cholestasis  (moderate)  possibly  related  to  anidulafungin  was  reported  (day  9)  in  the  pivotal 
ICC  study  in  a  patient  with  myelogenous  leukaemia  but  the  patient  was  on  several  confounding 
concomitant medications. 
A  Hepatic  Expert  Report  prepared  by  an  external  hepatologist  reviewed  any  cases  of  patients  from 
Studies VER002-4 , -5 , -6 , -7 , -9 , -11 , -12 and -15 who experienced both elevations in ALT (> 2 × 
ULN)  and  elevations  in  bilirubin  (1.5  ×  ULN)  that  occurred  simultaneously  or  within  1  month 
afterwards.    Ten  such  patients  from  anidulafungin  treatment  groups  and  8  from  fluconazole  groups 
were identified and reviewed. The report concluded that the “risk of irreversible liver injury from short 
term  treatment  (<  2  weeks)  with  anidulafungin  appears  to  be  low,  and  in  line  with  the  risk  from 
28/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
systemic fluconazole treatment in the patient populations studied”. Although the risk appears low, the 
proposed SPC warns for the potential for hepatic effect when treating patients with anidulafungin.  
QT  prolonged.  No  non-clinical  evidence  of  a  clinical  risk  for  QTc  interval  changes  was  identified.  
Monitoring of  QT  segment  changes  was  incorporated  into  the  large  Phase  II/III  studies.  ECGs  were 
done at screening and again (within 3 hours of drug infusion) on day 3 (Studies VER002-9,-9B and -4) 
or day 6 (Study VER002-6). These were read not only by the investigator, but also in a blinded fashion 
by  a  central  reference  cardiac  laboratory,  which  after  unblinding  at  study  completion  issued  a 
dedicated  QT  report  for  each  of  these  studies.  There  were  no  notable  differences  between 
anidulafungin-treated  patients  and  fluconazole-treated  patients  in  the  mean  change  from  baseline  in 
QTc interval or in the distribution of patients among QTc interval changes from baseline.  In the ICC 
studies, 4 patients were reported with an adverse event of “electrocardiogram QT prolonged” (3 from 
the anidulafungin and 1 in the fluconazole group, all from Study VER002-9).  Two of these AEs (both 
in the anidulafungin group) were judged to be at least possibly related to the study drug. However, the 
central  cardiac  laboratory  review  failed  to  confirm  QTc  prolongation  in  any  of  the  3  anidulafungin-
treated patients.   
Also analysis using relevant Standard MedDRA Queries (SMQs) in the ICC safety data revealed little 
difference  between  the  two  treatment  groups  in  the  frequencies  of  any  AEs  that  might  have  been 
related to an otherwise unrecognised torsade de pointes.  Further monitoring of QT prolongation risk 
will be conducted in the PMS.  
Pigmentation  Anidulafungin  binding  to  melanins  may  have  consequences  on  different  melanin 
pigmentation in the patient (e.g. In the skin and eyes; ADRs/AEs as given in section 4.8 of the SPC: 
eye  pain,  visual  disturbance,  vision  blurred).  At  this  stage,  there  does  not  seem  to  be  a  clinically 
relevant risk of toxicity associated with anidulafungin binding to melanin and this issue will be further 
monitored as part of routine pharmacovigilance. 
Seizures.    Anidulafungin  did  not  lower  the  seizure  threshold  in  animals.  No  seizures  were  noted 
among  healthy  volunteers  in  Phase  1  studies,  but  a  number  of  patients  in  Phase  2/3  studies  were 
reported to have seizures while on treatment with anidulafungin.  All of these appear to have had co-
morbidities  that  could  explain  the  event,  although  5  were  judged  by  the  investigator  to  be  at  least 
possibly  related  to  the  study  drug.    It  remains  unclear  to  what  extent,  if  any,  anidulafungin  might 
precipitate a seizure or lower the seizure threshold in susceptible individuals.   
Other issues The data in the clinical studies are insufficient to conclude on the occurrence of increased 
cholesterol, disturbances in water balance, haemolysis, and phototoxicity which were noted in animal 
toxicity testing.  
•  Serious adverse events and deaths 
SAEs  in  general  occur  at  comparable  rates  between  anidulafungin  and  fluconazole  patients  when 
compared within indications or within studies.  For both anidulafungin- and fluconazole-randomised 
patients, treatment-related SAEs in the pivotal ICC study occurred at rates of 2 /131 (1.5%) and 2 /125 
(1.6%) respectively. 
Treatment-related  SAEs  were  more  common  in  the  ICC  than  in  the  OeC  (Study  VER002-4) 
population  with  rates  of  0.7%  in  both  groups:  Hepatic  necrosis  (patient  13008)  and  maculo-papular 
rash  (patient  10007)  in  the  anidulafungin  arm  versus  pancytopenia  (patient  04065)  and  acute  renal 
failure (patient 04063) in the fluconazole arm. 
Eleven  patients  exposed  to  anidulafungin  in  the  Phase  I/SP  studies  were  reported  as  having  SAEs, 
none  of  which  was  judged  drug-related  and  all  but  1  of  which  occurred  in  Study  VER002-12, 
conducted in critically ill immunocompromised children. 
Deaths. Mortality was relatively high in the ICC studies, reflecting the serious nature of the disease: 
48  of  204  (23.5%)  patients  randomised  to  anidulafungin  and  39  of  125  patients  who  received 
29/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fluconazole  (31.2%)  died.    In  OC  study  VER002-4,  in  contrast,  the  death  rate  was  in  the  6  to  8% 
range.  
Among patients randomised to anidulafungin, all but 2 AEs that resulted in death were judged to be 
unrelated or unlikely to be related to study drug (convulsions in Patient 011-001 in Study VER 002-6, 
and hepatic necrosis in Patient 013-008 in Study VER 002-4).   
In  the  Phase  I  Study  VER002-12  conducted  in  critically  ill  immunocompromised  children,  3  deaths 
were reported (2 respiratory failure, 1 recurrent leukaemia). These deaths occurred from 21 to 99 days 
after the last anidulafungin treatment. None was judged drug-related.  
•  Laboratory findings 
Haematology and chemistry laboratory testing reveal no pattern in the Phase II/III data that suggested 
an  anidulafungin  effect.    However,  in  Phase  I  Study VER002-5,  a  dose  escalation  study  using 
loading/maintenance doses of 150/75, 200/100 and 260/130 mg (each for 10 days) there appeared to 
be a dose-dependent trend for increases in ALT, AST, and GGT.  
• 
Immunological events 
In  non-clinical  studies,  following  repeated  dosing  it  was  not  immunotoxic  in  assays  to  evaluate 
humoral  immunity  and  proliferative  capability,  and  did  not  cause  alterations  in  lymphocyte 
populations in the spleen or thymus of rats.  
Overall,  there  was  no  apparent  effect  of  anidulafungin  on  hematology  laboratory  parameters  in  the 
clinical  trials.  Treatment-related  maculo-papular  rash  (SAE)  in  the  OC  (Study  VER002-4) 
population has been reported 
•  Safety in special populations 
About a third of patients in the ICC studies were 65 years of age or older.  Proportionally more severe 
AEs were reported among elderly patients, but their frequency was similar to that of younger patients, 
except that respiratory distress was reported by more patients aged 65 and older. 
AEs  were  reported  by  proportionally  more  patients  with  derangements  of  liver  function;  no  such 
pattern  was  noted  in patients  with  renal  impairment.  The  dose  of  anidulafungin  does  not  need  to  be 
adjusted for renal or hepatic dysfunction.   
Women who were pregnant or who might become pregnant were excluded from the clinical trials, and 
no events of pregnancy were reported during the clinical programme.  The SPC recommends such use 
only if the potential benefit is felt to outweigh the risk to the foetus. 
Minimal  data  are  available  on  overdosage.    The  highest  loading/maintenance  dose  in  the  clinical 
programme  was  260/130  mg  (Study  VER002-5).    In  another  study,  a  dose  of  400  mg  was 
inadvertently administered to a patient as a loading dose (instead of 200 mg), and was followed by a 
minimal and transient rise in total bilirubin. 
to  24 
There  is  limited  clinical  experience  with  anidulafungin  in  children  (study  VER002-12).  The  latter 
study  evaluated  the  pharmacokinetics  of  two  dose  levels  and  safety  of  anidulafungin  after  i.v. 
administration 
immunocompromised  children  aged  2–17  years  with  neutropenia. 
Pharmacokinetic data suggest that a maintenance dose of 1.5 mg/kg/day in children corresponds to a 
maintenance dose of 100 mg/day in adults, but efficacy in children has not been assessed and safety 
data are limited. The safety of the 1.5 mg/kg dosage group is relevant in the context of the dose level 
recommended for adults. The applicant is encouraged to pursue development of this echinocandin for 
use in paediatric patients (FUM).  
30/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Anidulafungin demonstrated a low potential for drug-drug interactions, and was well tolerated when 
co-administered  with  ciclosporin,  protease  inhibitors,  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors,  systemic 
corticosteroids, organ transplant immunosuppressants, or rifampicin-containing medications.  
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Only  Studies  VER002-9,  -9B  and  -11  distinguished  between  “discontinuation  from  study”  and 
“discontinuation  from  study  medication”.  In  the  other  Phase  II/III  studies,  only  data  on 
“discontinuation from study” were collected.  
In the ICC studies (VER002-9 and -9B) more patients in the anidulafungin group completed treatment 
with  study  medication  than  in  the  fluconazole  group  (74.4%  versus  61.6%).    The  most  common 
reasons  for  discontinuation  from  study  medication  were  “Adverse  event”  and  “Worsening  clinical 
status”,  and  both  of  these  were  more  commonly  reported  for  patients  randomised  to  fluconazole 
(approx.17%  vs.  10%  in  the  anidulafungin group).  Study  discontinuation  due  to  death  in  the  pivotal 
ICC  study  was  at  higher  rate  in  the  fluconazole  arm  (approx.  30%  vs.  approx.  22%  in  the 
anidulafungin group). 
Discussion on clinical safety 
The safety database for the sought indication is rather limited. The safety profile of anidulafungin in 
patients  with  ICC  is  similar  to  that  of  fluconazole,  but  respiratory  distress  (occurring  in  3.3% 
anidulafungin patients vs 0.7% fluconazole patients), and dyspnoea (occurring in 5.8% anidulafungin 
patients vs 1.4% fluconazole patients) was an exception (see Risk Management Plan below). Infusion 
reactions are a possible side effect of anidulafungin, but remain at an acceptable level by adherence to 
the  administration  recommendations  in  the  proposed  SPC.  Anidulafungin  may  be  associated  with 
hepatotoxicity, though the incidence was very similar to that of fluconazole. It remains unclear to what 
extent  anidulafungin  might  precipitate  a  seizure  or  lower  the  seizure  threshold  in  susceptible 
individuals.   
Only  very  few  cases  of  QT  prolongation  were  reported  and  the  events  were  not  confirmed  as  QT 
prolongation by  central  reference  cardiac  laboratory review  of  the  ECGs.  However,  for  reassurance, 
data  from  proactive  monitoring  for  a  thorough  QT  prolongation  in  the  larger  clinical  studies  were 
reviewed. This provided sufficient clarification and reassurance in relation to the risk of QT interval 
prolongation. It is not likely that anidulafungin is associated with this risk at the recommended dose 
level in the target population. Further monitoring of this risk will be conducted in the post-marketing 
stage.  
Long-term  safety  data  on  anidulafungin  are  limited.  The  Applicant  should  perform  a  close  post-
marketing  surveillance  together  with  a  strict  safety  assessment  of  all  future  trials  with  particular 
attention paid to long-term safety data and to safety issues such as putative hepatotoxic reactions and 
allergic  reactions  related  to  potential  long-lived  anidulafungin  degradates.  The  data  should  be 
collected and submitted as part of the PSURs. 
Only limited short-term paediatric data are available from the small pharmacokinetic study VER002-
12. So far, these data give no reason for additional concern compared to adult patients. However, the 
limited data do not allow definitive assessment of the safety and efficacy of anidulafungin in children. 
The applicant will further develop this echinocandin for use in paediatric patients.  
The information included in the SmPC outlines the safety profile of anidulafungin as documented in 
the clinical studies.  
31/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan 
Table 15   Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
Important Identified Risks 
Infusion-associated 
AEs 
•  Routine/enhanced pharmacovigilance. 
•  Additional data collection in planned studies: 
-Pediatric candidemia study (A8851008); 
-Candidemia/invasive candidiasis study in adult 
and elderly patients (A8851011) 
-ICU special population Candidemia/ invasive 
candidiasis study  
Hepatobiliary AEs 
•  Routine/enhanced pharmacovigilance. 
•  Additional data collection in planned studies: 
-Pediatric candidemia study (A8851008); 
- Candidemia/invasive candidiasis study in 
adult and elderly patients (A8851011) 
-ICU special population Candidemia/ invasive 
candidiasis study  
-Post-marketing surveillance study of 
hepatotoxicity 
Important Potential Risks 
Convulsions 
•  Routine/enhanced pharmacovigilance. 
•  Additional data collection in planned studies: 
-Pediatric candidemia study (A8851008); 
- Candidemia/invasive candidiasis study in 
adult and elderly patients (A8851011) 
-ICU special population Candidemia/ invasive 
candidiasis study 
Anesthetic 
exacerbation of 
infusion-associated 
AEs 
•  Routine/enhanced pharmacovigilance. 
•  Additional data collection in planned studies: 
-Pediatric candidemia study (A8851008); 
-Candidemia/invasive candidiasis study in adult 
and elderly patients (A8851011) 
-ICU special population Candidemia/ invasive 
candidiasis study 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
QT 
Prolongation/Torsade 
de Pointes 
Important limited/missing information 
Children and 
Adolescents 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
•  Additional data collection in a Pediatric 
Pregnancy and 
Lactation 
Neutropenic Patients 
candidemia study (A8851008) 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimi-
sation activities 
Wording in SmPC 
Sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.8, and 
6.6 
Wording in SmPC 
Sections 4.2, 4.4, and 4.8 
Wording in SmPC 
Section 4.8 
Wording in SmPC 
Sections 4.4 and 5.3 
None 
Wording in SmPC 
Sections 4.2 and 5.2 
Wording in SmPC 
Sections 4.6 and 5.3 
Wording in SmPC 
32/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly 
Resistance to 
anidulafungin 
•   Additional data collection in planned studies: 
-Pediatric candidemia study (A8851008); 
-Candidemia/invasive candidiasis study in adult 
and elderly patients (A8851011) 
-ICU special population Candidemia/ invasive 
candidiasis study 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance. 
•  Additional data collection in planned studies: 
-Candidemia/invasive candidiasis study in adult 
and elderly patients (A8851011) 
-ICU special population Candidemia/ invasive 
candidiasis study 
•  Additional data collection:  
-Antifungal surveillance programs 
(ARTEMIS, SENTRY) 
-Planned Phase 4 clinical studies (A8851008 
Pediatric candidemia study; A8851011 
Candidemia/Invasive candidiasis in adult and 
elderly patients; ICU special population 
Candidemia/ invasive candidiasis study) 
Section 5.1 
Wording in SmPC 
Sections 4.2 and 5.2 
Wording in SmPC 
Section 5.1 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
6. 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
There  are  no  major  non-clinical  reservations  about  the  proposed  use  of  anidulafungin,  provided  the 
duration of treatment is limited in accordance with the recommendation defined in the SPC. 
Efficacy 
The CHMP considered the provided efficacy data to be too limited to be extrapolated to the general 
indication in the treatment of patients with invasive candidiasis including candidaemia.  Regarding the 
use  in  invasive  candidiasis,  an  insufficient  number  of  neutropenic  patients  have  been  studied;  in 
addition,  the  study  population  comprised  a  limited  number  of  patients  with  deep  tissue  candida 
infections or with abscess-forming disease.  A restriction in the wording of the indication is therefore 
recommended.    
Safety 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
33/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk-benefit assessment 
The overall B/R of ECALTA is positive. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns. 
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of ECALTA in the  
“Treatment of invasive candidiasis in adult non-neutropenic patients. 
ECALTA has been studied primarily in patients with candidaemia and only in a limited number of 
patients with deep tissue Candida infections or with abscess-forming disease (see section 4.4 and 
section 5.1).” 
was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
34/34 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
