EMA/374044/2020 
EMEA/H/C/002605 
Ecansya (capecitabine)1 
An overview of Ecansya and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Ecansya and what is it used for? 
Ecansya is a cancer medicine that is used to treat: 
• 
colon (large bowel) cancer. Ecansya is used on its own or with other cancer medicines in patients 
who have had surgery for stage III or Dukes’ stage C colon cancer; 
•  metastatic colorectal cancer (cancer of the large bowel that has spread to other parts of the 
body). Ecansya is used on its own or with other cancer medicines; 
• 
• 
advanced gastric (stomach) cancer. Ecansya is used with other cancer medicines, including a 
platinum-containing cancer medicine such as cisplatin; 
locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer (breast cancer that has begun to spread to other 
parts of the body). Ecansya is used with docetaxel (another cancer medicine) after treatment 
with anthracyclines (another type of cancer medicine) has failed. It can also be used on its own 
when treatment with both anthracyclines and taxanes (another type of cancer medicine) has 
failed or when further treatment with anthracyclines is not suitable for the patient. 
Ecansya is a ‘generic’ and a ‘hybrid’ medicine. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’, 
but it contains capecitabine at a new strength in addition to existing strengths. While the reference 
medicine, Xeloda, is available as 150 and 500 mg tablets, Ecansya is also available as 300 mg tablets. 
For more information on generic and hybrid medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
Ecansya contains the active substance capecitabine.  
How is Ecansya used? 
Ecansya should only be prescribed by a doctor who is qualified in the use of cancer medicines. 
Before starting treatment, it is recommended that patients are tested to check that they have a 
working dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) enzyme.  
1 Previously known as Capecitabine Krka 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Ecansya is available as tablets (150, 300 and 500 mg). The dose depends on the patient’s height and 
weight and the type of cancer being treated. Ecansya tablets should be taken within 30 minutes after a 
meal. The tablets are given twice daily for 14 days followed by a 7-day gap before the next course. 
Treatment is continued for six months after colon surgery. For other types of cancer, treatment is 
stopped if the disease gets worse or the side effects are unacceptable. Doses need to be adjusted for 
patients with liver or kidney disease and for patients who develop certain side effects. For patients with 
partial DPD deficiency, a lower starting dose may be considered. 
For more information about using Ecansya, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Ecansya work? 
The active substance in Ecansya, capecitabine, is a cytotoxic medicine (a medicine that kills rapidly 
dividing cells such as cancer cells) that belongs to the group ‘anti-metabolites’. Capecitabine is 
converted to the medicine fluorouracil in the body, but more is converted in tumour cells than in 
normal tissues.  
Fluorouracil is very similar to pyrimidine. Pyrimidine is part of the genetic material of cells (DNA and 
RNA). In the body, fluorouracil takes the place of pyrimidine and interferes with the enzymes involved 
in making new DNA. As a result, it stops the growth of tumour cells and eventually kills them. 
How has Ecansya been studied?  
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Xeloda, and do not need to be repeated for Ecansya.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Ecansya. The company also 
carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two medicines are 
bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body and are therefore 
expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Ecansya? 
Because Ecansya is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its benefits and 
risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Ecansya authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Ecansya has 
been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Xeloda. Therefore, the Agency’s 
view was that, as for Xeloda, the benefits of Ecansya outweigh the identified risks and it can therefore 
be authorised for use in the EU.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ecansya? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Ecansya have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Ecansya (capecitabine)0F  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Ecansya are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Ecansya are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Ecansya 
Ecansya received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union on 19 November 
2012.  
Further information on Ecansya can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/ecansya 
Information on the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 06-2020. 
Ecansya (capecitabine)0F  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
