Summary  of  risk  management  plan  for  AZISARTAN  MEDOXOMIL 
(EDARBI)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for EDARBI. The RMP details important risks of 
EDARBI,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about 
EDARBI's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
EDARBI's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how EDARBI should be used.
This summary of the RMP for EDARBI should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of EDARBI's RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
EDARBI is  authorised  for  the  treatment  of  essential  hypertension  in  adults (see  SmPC  for  the  full 
indication).  It  contains  AZILSARTAN  MEDOXOMIL  as  the  active  substance  and  it  is  taken  by  ORAL 
ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION.
Further information about the evaluation of EDARBI’s benefits can be found in EDARBI EPAR, including 
in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/edarbi
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks 
Important risks of EDARBI, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about EDARBI's risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:




Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly;
The  medicine’s  legal  status  — the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (e.g.  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
II.A List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of EDARBI are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  taken.  Important  risks  can  be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a 
link with the use of EDARBI. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this  association  has  not  been  established  yet  and 
needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal 
product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be  collected  (e.g.  on  the  long-term  use  of  the 
medicine);
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Foetotoxicity
Important potential risks
None 
Missing information
None
II.B Summary of important risks
The  safety  information  in  the  proposed  Product  Information  is  aligned  to  the  reference  medicinal 
product.
Important identified risk: Foetotoxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine
Azilsartan medoxomil nonclinical and clinical studies. Case reports and 
reviews published in the medical literature of ARBs. 
Risk factors and risk groups
Any exposure during pregnancy is deemed a risk.
Risk minimisation measures
Routine risk minimisation measures:
SmPC section 4.3, 4.4, 4.6, 5.3 and PL
Additional risk minimisation measures: None
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities
None
II.C. Post-authorisation development plan
II.C.1. Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
EDARBI.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
There are no studies required for EDARBI.
