EMA/607910/2013  
EMEA/H/C/002293 
EPAR summary for the public 
Edarbi 
azilsartan medoxomil  
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Edarbi. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Edarbi. 
What is Edarbi? 
Edarbi is a medicine that contains the active substance azilsartan medoxomil. It is available as tablets 
(20, 40 and 80 mg). 
What is Edarbi used for? 
Edarbi is used in adults who have essential hypertension (high blood pressure). ‘Essential’ means that 
the hypertension has no obvious cause. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Edarbi used? 
Edarbi is taken by mouth and the usual recommended dose is 40 mg once a day. If the blood pressure 
is not sufficiently controlled, the dose can be increased to 80 mg, or another medicine for 
hypertension, such as chlortalidone or hydrochlorothiazide, can be added. 
How does Edarbi work? 
The active substance in Edarbi, azilsartan medoxomil, is an ‘angiotensin II receptor antagonist’, which 
means that it blocks the action of a hormone in the body called angiotensin II. Angiotensin II is a 
powerful vasoconstrictor (a substance that narrows blood vessels). By blocking the receptors to which 
angiotensin II normally attaches, azilsartan medoxomil stops the hormone from having an effect, 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
therefore allowing the blood vessels to widen. This allows the blood pressure to fall towards normal, 
thus reducing the risks associated with high blood pressure, such as having a stroke. 
How has Edarbi been studied? 
Eight main studies involving over 6,000 patients with essential hypertension were carried out with 
Edarbi.  
Five studies investigated the effects of Edarbi taken alone, comparing it with placebo (a dummy 
treatment) or with other antihypertensive medicines (ramipril, valsartan and olmesartan medoxomil). 
The patients in these studies had mild to moderate hypertension.  
Three studies investigated the effects of Edarbi in combination with other antihypertensive medicines 
(chlortalidone, amlodipine, and hydrochlorothiazide).  The patients in the combination studies had 
moderate to severe hypertension. 
The studies lasted between six and 56 weeks and the main measure of effectiveness was the change in 
the systolic blood pressure (blood pressure when the heart is contracting).  
What benefit has Edarbi shown during the studies? 
Edarbi on its own was more effective than placebo. In the two studies with Edarbi taken alone 
compared with placebo, patients had an average fall in systolic blood pressure of about 13.5 mmHg on 
Edarbi 40 mg and a fall of about 14.5 mmHg on Edarbi 80 mg after 6 weeks. This compares with a fall 
of 0.3 to 1.4 mmHg in the patients taking placebo. 
When Edarbi alone was compared with other medicines, 80 mg of Edarbi was more effective in 
lowering blood pressure than the highest approved dose of valsartan (320 mg) and olmesartan 
medoxomil (40 mg). Edarbi 40 and 80 mg was also more effective than ramipril (10 mg). 
The studies also showed that Edarbi, when taken in combination with other medicines, can produce 
additional decreases in blood pressure compared with when these medicines are taken without Edarbi. 
What is the risk associated with Edarbi? 
Side effects with Edarbi are generally mild or moderate, with the most common side effect being 
dizziness. For the full list of all side effects reported with Edarbi, see the package leaflet. 
Edarbi must not be used in women who are more than three months pregnant. Its use during the first 
three months of pregnancy is also not recommended. Edarbi must also not be used in combination with 
aliskiren-containing medicines (also used to treat essential hypertension) in patients with diabetes or in 
patients with moderate or severe kidney impairment. For the full list of restrictions, see the package 
leaflet. 
Why has Edarbi been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that Edarbi belongs to an established class of medicines in the treatment of 
hypertension and its risks are similar to others within this class. The Committee decided that the 
benefits of Edarbi are greater than its risks in patients with essential hypertension and recommended 
that it be given marketing authorisation. 
Edarbi  
EMA/607910/2013  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Edarbi? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Edarbi is used as safely as possible. Based 
on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet for Edarbi, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Edarbi 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Edarbi on 07 December 2011.  
The full EPAR for Edarbi can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Edarbi, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 10-2013.  
Edarbi  
EMA/607910/2013  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
