SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR 
FORXIGA/EDISTRIDE (DAPAGLIFLOZIN)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for FORXIGA/EDISTRIDE. The 
RMP details important risks of FORXIGA/EDISTRIDE, how these risks can be minimised, 
and how more information will be obtained about FORXIGA/EDISTRIDE’S risks and 
uncertainties (missing information).
FORXIGA/EDISTRIDE’S Summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package 
leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
FORXIGA/EDISTRIDE should be used.
This summary of the RMP for FORXIGA/EDISTRIDE should be read in the context of all 
this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
FORXIGA/EDISTRIDE’S RMP.
I.
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR
FORXIGA/EDISTRIDE is authorised for treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in adults and 
children aged 10 years and above as an adjunct to diet and exercise, for treatment of 
symptomatic chronic heart failure in adults and for treatment of chronic kidney disease in 
adults (see SmPC for the full indications). It contains dapagliflozin as the active substance and 
it is given orally.
Further information about the evaluation of FORXIGA/EDISTRIDE’S benefits can be found 
in FORXIGA/EDISTRIDE’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on 
the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
FORXIGA
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/forxiga
EDISTRIDE
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/edistride
II.
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND 
ACTIVITIES TO MINIMISE OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE 
THE RISKS
Important risks of FORXIGA/EDISTRIDE, together with measures to minimise such risks 
and the proposed studies for learning more about FORXIGA/EDISTRIDE’s risks, are 
outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:




Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so as to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute the routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report assessment, so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities.
II.1
LIST OF IMPORTANT RISKS AND MISSING INFORMATION
Important risks of FORXIGA/EDISTRIDE are risks that need special risk management 
activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be 
safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of FORXIGA/EDISTRIDE. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product 
that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long term use of the medicine).
Table 1
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information 
Diabetic Ketoacidosis including events with atypical 
presentation
Bladder cancer
Breast cancer
Prostate cancer
Lower limb amputation
Use in patients with NYHA class IV
Long-term safety in the paediatric population  
(aged 10 years and above)
Table 2
Important Identified Risk – Diabetic Ketoacidosis Including Events 
with Atypical Presentation 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups
Postmarketing experience with use of SGLT2 inhibitors, including 
dapagliflozin.
In clinical studies with T1DM, there was a higher number of diabetic 
ketoacidosis (DKA) in the dapagliflozin-treated patients compared to 
placebo. DKA was also reported in the T2DM DECLARE study with 
rare frequency.
Postoperative episodes affecting insulin requirement/deficiency; 
dehydration and restricted oral glucose intake due to dieting 
(especially low carbohydrate diet); loss of appetite due to, eg, 
gastrointestinal infection, depression, or malaise; severe infections or 
other severe medical conditions such as myocardial infarction and 
stroke; and pancreatic insufficiencies due pancreatitis, cancer, or 
alcohol abuse.
Risk minimisation measures
Routine risk minimisations measures:
SmPC sections 4.4, 4.8
PL sections 2, 4
Information includes that dapagliflozin should be interrupted in 
relation to major surgical procedures or acute serious medical 
illnesses, or if DKA is suspected (SmPC section 4.4, PL section 2).
Before initiating dapagliflozin, factors in the patient history that may 
predispose to ketoacidosis should be considered. (SmPC section 4.4).
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities
Nonclinical mechanistic model studies (postdoc project). 
(dapagliflozin).
Table 3
Important Potential Risk – Bladder Cancer
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups
Clinical trial data with use of dapagliflozin.
Age, sex (male), smoking (now or ever), chemical exposure to 
known carcinogens (cyclophosphamide and aniline dyes, etc), and 
haematuria.
Risk minimisation measures
None.
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities
MB102118: Cancer in Patients on Dapagliflozin and Other 
Antidiabetic Treatment
Table 4
Important Potential Risk – Breast Cancer
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Clinical trial data with use of dapagliflozin.
Table 4
Important Potential Risk – Breast Cancer
Risk factors and risk groups
Age, sex (female), smoking (now or ever), parity, use of exogenous 
oestrogen (i.e., hormone replacement therapy), BRCA1 or BRCA2 
mutations, family history of breast cancer, breast tissue density, 
overweight/obesity.
Risk minimisation measures
None.
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities
MB102118: Cancer in Patients on Dapagliflozin and Other 
Antidiabetic Treatment
Table 5
Important Potential Risk – Prostate Cancer
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Clinical trial data with use of dapagliflozin.
Risk factors and risk groups
Age, smoking.
Risk minimisation measures
None.
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities
MB102118: Cancer in Patients on Dapagliflozin and Other 
Antidiabetic Treatment
Table 6
Important Potential Risk – Lower Limb Amputation
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups
Clinical trial data for another SGLT2 inhibitor.
Subjects with diabetes are at high risk for amputation due to a high 
prevalence of CV disease, including PAD, dyslipidaemia, peripheral 
neuropathy, and chronic kidney disease. Minor trauma can be an 
increased risk due to existing neuropathy and may led to ulcers that 
get infected and do not heal. The non-healing, infected ulcers may 
lead to gangrene and amputation.
Risk minimisation measures
Routine risk minimisation activities:
SmPC section 4.4: Guidance provided on potential class effect
PL section 2: Counsel on routine preventative foot care.
Table 7
Missing Information – Use in Patients with NYHA Class IV
Risk minimisation measures
Routine risk minimisation measures:
SmPC Section: 4.4
Table 8
Missing Information – Long-term Safety in the Paediatric Population 
(Aged 10 years and Above)
Risk minimisation measures
None
Table 8
Missing Information – Long-term Safety in the Paediatric Population 
(Aged 10 years and Above)
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities
Long term safety data including measures of growth and maturity 
and Tanner staging and markers of bone health will be collected for 
up to 104 weeks in study D1680C00019 (CV181375) T2NOW. 
II.2
POST-AUTHORISATION DEVELOPMENT PLAN
II.2.1
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of FORXIGA.
II.2.2
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
Study short name: Nonclinical mechanistic model studies [Postdoc project].
Purpose of the study: Studies aimed to elucidate the metabolic adaptations in term of glucose 
flux, lipolysis, and ketogenesis following insulin withdrawal in subjects with diabetes mellitus 
and absolute or relative endogenous insulin deficiency, when treated with dapagliflozin.
Study short name: MB102118 (D1690R00007) – Cancer in Patients on Dapagliflozin 
[Observational study].
Purpose of the study: (1) To compare the incidence of breast cancer, by insulin use at cohort 
entry, among females with T2DM who are new initiators of dapagliflozin and females who 
are new initiators of antidiabetic drugs in classes other than SGLT2 inhibitors, insulin, 
metformin monotherapy, or SU monotherapy and (2) To compare the incidence of bladder 
cancer, by insulin use and pioglitazone use, among male and female patients with T2DM who 
are new initiators of dapagliflozin and those who are new initiators of antidiabetic drugs in 
classes other than SGLT2 inhibitors, insulin monotherapy, metformin monotherapy, or SU 
monotherapy.
Study short name: D1680C00019 (CV181375) T2NOW
Purpose of the study: To assess safety and tolerability of dapagliflozin and saxagliptin in 
paediatric T2DM subjects aged from 10 to < 18 years, receiving 26 weeks of short-term (ST) 
double-blind treatment, followed by 26-weeks of long-term safety extension period, leading 
up to 52 weeks of total treatment. Safety objectives include assessment of measures of growth 
and maturity and Tanner staging and markers of bone health for up to 26 weeks, and, 
separately, for up to 52 weeks of total treatment, and for an additional 52 weeks after the 
study has been completed (Week 10
