Summary of Risk Management Plan for EDURANT (INN: Rilpivirine hydrochloride, 
TMC278)
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  EDURANT.  The  RMP  details 
important  risks  of  EDURANT,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimized,  and  how  more  information 
will be obtained about EDURANT's risks and uncertainties (missing information).
EDURANT's Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its Package Leaflet (PL) provide 
essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  EDURANT should  be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for EDURANT should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment  report of the evaluation and its  plain-language summary,  all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report.
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
EDURANT's RMP.
I.
The Medicine and What it is Used For
EDURANT, in  combination  with  other  antiretroviral  (ARV)  medicinal  products, is  authorized 
for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 infection in ARV treatment-naïve 
patients  12  years  of  age  and  older with  a  viral  load  ≤100,000 HIV-1  ribonucleic  acid  (RNA)
copies/mL (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains rilpivirine (RPV) hydrochloride as the 
active substance and it is given once daily as an oral tablet (RPV 25 mg).
Further information about the evaluation of EDURANT’s benefits can be found in EDURANT’s 
European Public Assessment Report, including in its plain-language summary, available on the 
European Medicines Agency website, under the medicine’s webpage:
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/002264/huma
n_med_001513.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124
II.
Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or 
Further Characterize the Risks
Important risks of EDURANT, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about EDURANT's risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:



Specific information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the  PL
and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly;

The  medicine’s  legal  status  — the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (eg,  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly  analyzed,  including  Periodic  Safety  Update  Report (PSUR)  assessment, so  that
immediate  action  can  be 
routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute 
If  important  information  that  may  affect  the  safe  use  of  EDURANT is  not  yet  available,  it  is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A.
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks  of EDURANT are risks  that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate  or  minimize  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  taken.  Important
risks  can be regarded as  identified or potential.  Identified risks  are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of EDURANT. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be 
collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine);
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks Development of drug resistance
Important potential risks
None
Missing information
Pregnancy
II.B.
Summary of Important Risks
Important Identified Risk: Development of drug resistance
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine
Development of RPV drug resistance was reported in clinical 
trials.
Risk factors and risk groups
Subjects who are not adherent to their ARV regimen and/or with 
higher baseline viral load (>100,000 HIV-1 RNA copies/mL) are 
more likely to experience virologic failure and to develop drug 
resistance.
Risk minimization measures
Routine risk minimization measures:




SmPC Section 4.1
SmPC Section 4.4
SmPC Section 5.1
PL Section 3
Important Identified Risk: Development of drug resistance
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities


Recommendation to use (genotypic) resistance testing to 
guide the use of EDURANT is provided in SmPC 
Sections 4.1 and 4.4.
Legal status: restricted medical prescription
Additional risk minimization measures:

None
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:

Drug Utilization Study (DUS) (Post-authorization Safety 
Study [PASS]): Observational cohort study to assess RPV 
utilization according to the European SmPC
Final report: Q2 2019 (interim data described in 
PSURs/Periodic Benefit-Risk Evaluation Reports [PBRERs])
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan.
Missing Information: Pregnancy
Risk minimization measures
Routine risk minimization measures:
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities




SmPC Section 4.6
PL Section 2
Recommendation regarding the use of EDURANT during 
pregnancy is provided in SmPC Section 4.6 and PL Section 2
Legal status: restricted medical prescription
Additional risk minimization measures:

None
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:

Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry
Interim reports will be submitted and discussed in the 
PBRERs/PSURs (data lock point and periodicity as described 
in the List of EU reference dates and frequency of submission 
of PSURs)
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorization development plan.
II.C.
Post-authorization Development Plan
II.C.1.
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation of 
EDURANT.
II.C.2.
Other Studies in Post-authorization Development Plan
MEA 011.1- DUS (PASS) - Observational cohort study to assess RPV utilization according to 
the European SmPC
Purpose of the study: To assess the use of EDURANT according to the prescribing information 
for EDURANT and the development of resistance in routine clinical practice.
Antiretroviral Pregnancy Registry
Purpose of the study: To collect information on the risk of  birth defects in patients exposed  to 
EDURANT during pregnancy.
