Summary of risk management plan for Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil Krka 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
Krka. The RMP details important risks of Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka, how these 
risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka 's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka 's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its 
package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka should be used.   
This summary of the RMP for Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka should be read in the 
context of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka 's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka is authorised for for the treatment of human 
immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection in adults aged 18 years and over with virologic suppression 
to HIV-1 RNA levels of < 50 copies/ml on their current combination antiretroviral therapy for more 
than three months. Patients must not have experienced virological failure on any prior antiretroviral 
therapy and must be known not to have harboured virus strains with mutations conferring significant 
resistance to any of the three components contained in Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
Krka prior to initiation of their first antiretroviral treatment regimen (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
It contains Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil as the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka’s benefits 
can be found in Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka’s EPAR, including in its plain-
language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/004274/human_
med_002233.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important  risks  of  Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir  disoproxil  Krka,  together  with  measures  to 
minimise 
such 
risks 
and 
the 
proposed 
studies 
for 
learning  more 
about 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka's risks, are outlined below.  
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
 
 
 
 
 
  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed , including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
Krka is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka are risks that need special risk 
management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be 
safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns 
for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
Krka. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks: 
Liver disease 
(High-grade hepatic enzyme elevation and severe hepatic 
events) 
Spinal cord and brain birth defects  
(Neural tube developmental abnormalities) 
Psychiatric and nervous system symptoms 
Skin rashes and severe skin reactions 
Higher  levels  of  efavirenz  in  the  bloodstream  caused  by  a 
genetic characteristic 
(Alteration in efavirenz blood levels and CYP2B6 genetic 
polymorphisms) 
Kidney problems  
(Renal toxicity) 
Bone problems   
(Bone events due to proximal renal tubulopathy/loss of BMD) 
Important potential risks: 
Kidney stones  
(Urolithiasis/nephrolithiasis) 
Missing information: 
Limited information on use in pregnant and breastfeeding 
women 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka. 
 
  
 
