20 October 2011 
EMA/916997/2011 
Assessment report 
Efavirenz Teva 
International nonproprietary name: efavirenz 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002352 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8545   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents 
1 
1.1 
1.2 
1.3 
1.4 
1.5 
1.6 
1.7 
1.8 
2 
3 
Background information on the procedure
Submission of the dossier
Manufacturers
Steps taken for the assessment of the product
Introduction
Quality aspects
Non- Clinical aspects
Clinical Aspects
Pharmacovigilance
............................................. 3 
.................................................................................. 3 
.................................................................................................. 4 
...................................................... 4 
..................................................................................................... 5 
................................................................................................. 5 
......................................................................................... 8 
................................................................................................. 9 
.......................................................................................... 13 
Benefit-Risk Balance
............................................................................ 13 
Recommendation
.................................................................................. 15 
Efavirenz Teva 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/916997/2011  
Page 2/15 
 
 
 
 
 
1  Background information on the procedure 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Teva Pharma B.V. submitted on 23 November 2010 an application for a Marketing 
Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Efavirenz Teva, through the centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised 
product’. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 29 June 
2010. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference medicinal product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has 
been granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: antiviral combination treatment of human 
immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV 1) infected adults, adolescents and children 3 years of age and older. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Sustiva instead of non-clinical and clinical 
unless justified otherwise. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to Orphan Market Exclusivity 
Similarity 
Not applicable 
Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable 
The chosen reference medicinal product is: 
■  
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Sustiva 600 mg Film-coated Tablets 
Marketing authorisation holder: Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Date of authorisation:  28-05-1999 
Marketing authorisation granted by Community - Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/99/110/008 - 
10 
Efavirenz Teva 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/916997/2011  
Page 3/15 
 
 
 
 
 
■  
Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made 
or European reference medicinal product:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Sustiva 600 mg Film-coated Tablets 
Marketing authorisation holder: Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Date of authorisation:  28-05-1999 
  Marketing authorisation granted by Community - Marketing authorisation number: 
EU/1/99/110/008 - 10 
■  
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Sustiva 600 mg Film-coated Tablets 
Marketing authorisation holder: Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Date of authorisation:  28-05-1999 
Marketing authorisation granted by Community - Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/99/110/008 - 
10 
Bioavailability study: Details of the Bioavailability study number have been included in the dossier. 
Licensing status 
The medicinal product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
1.2  Manufacturers  
Manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
TEVA Pharmaceutical Works Private Limited Company 
Pallagi út 13, 4042 Debrecen 
Hungary 
Details of the active substance manufacturer and finished product manufacturers have been included in 
the dossier. 
1.3  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was Ian Hudson: 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 23 November 2010.  
The procedure started on 15 December 2010. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 04 March 2011 .  
  During the meeting on 11-14 April 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 15 
April 2011. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 21 July 2011. 
Efavirenz Teva 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/916997/2011  
Page 4/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of Questions 
to all CHMP members on 02 September 2011.  
During the CHMP meeting on 19 – 22 September 2011, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. The final consolidated List of Outstanding Issues 
was sent to the applicant on 22 September 2011. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 
28/09/2011. 
During the meeting on  17 – 20 October 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Efavirenz Teva.  
1.4  Introduction 
The active substance of the medicinal product is efavirenz. Efavirenz is a NNRTI of HIV-1. Efavirenz is 
a non-competitive inhibitor of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase (RT) and does not significantly inhibit HIV-2 
RT or cellular DNA polymerases (α, β, γ or δ). 
The safety and efficacy profile of efavirenz has been demonstrated in several clinical trials, details of 
which can be found in the EPAR for Sustiva. In addition, there is a long-term post-marketing 
experience contributing to the knowledge of the clinical use of this product. Since this application is a 
generic application referring to the reference medicinal product Sustiva, summary of the clinical data 
submitted for Sustiva is available and no new clinical studies regarding pharmacology, 
pharmacokinetics and efficacy and safety have been conducted.  
This application is a generic application, therefore, demonstration of therapeutic equivalence is shown 
by means of pharmacokinetic studies. Then, new clinical studies are neither required nor submitted.  
The relative oral bioavailability of Efavirenz Teva 600 mg film-coated tablets and the European 
reference medicinal product Sustiva 600 mg film-coated tablets was established by comparing the 
single dose pharmacokinetics of efavirenz from the two formulations, under fasting conditions, in an 
open-label, randomised, two period, two sequence, crossover study. 
1.5  Quality aspects 
1.5.1  Introduction 
Efavirenz Teva is available as 600 mg film-coated tablets for oral administration containing efavirenz 
as the active ingredient. The full list of ingredients is defined in section 6.1 of the SmPC. The film-
coated tablets are yellow capsule shaped debossed with “TEVA” on one side and “7541” on the other 
packaged in either White opaque PVC/PVdC-Aluminium blisters or Aluminium-Aluminium blisters.  
1.5.2  Active Substance 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, the active substance efavirenz is not described in the European 
Pharmacopoeia. The ASMF procedure is applied.  
Efavirenz Teva 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/916997/2011  
Page 5/15 
 
 
 
 
 
Efavirenz has the following chemical name (4S)-6-chloro-4-(2-cyclopropylethynyl)-4-(trifluoromethyl)-
2,4-dihydro-1H-3,1-benzoxazin-2-one (4S)-6-chloro-4-(cyclopropylethynyl)-1, 4-dihydro -4-
trifluoromethyl)-2H-3, 1-benzoxazin-2-one, chemical formula C14H 9ClF3NO2, and the following 
chemical str
ucture:  
The substance is a white to slightly pink powder freely soluble in methanol, practically insoluble in 
water. Efavirenz possesses one asymmetric carbon atom and is expected to be optically active. 
Efavirenz exists in five polymorphic forms known as Form-I, Form-II, Form-III, Form-IV and Form-V as 
reported in literature.  
Manufacture 
Information about the manufacturing process has been provided in the Active Substance Master File 
(ASMF) procedure. Detailed information about the manufacturing process, control of starting materials, 
reagents and solvents, control of critical steps and intermediates and process development and process 
validation of the active substance has been supplied in the form of the active substance master file 
(ASMF). Adequate In-Process Controls are applied during the manufacture of the active substance. The 
specifications and control methods for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents, have 
been presented and are satisfactory. 
Specification 
Specifications have been set that are appropriate in view of the Ph Eur Monograph ‘Substances for 
Pharmaceutical use’ and the ICH Q6A Guideline on Setting Specifications of active substances and 
medicinal products.  
The specifications of the active substance include description, solubility, identification (IR and HPLC), 
polymorphic identity (DSC, XRD), loss on drying, specific optical rotation, heavy metals, chiral purity, 
related substances (HPLC), assay (HPLC) and residual solvents (GC) are considered to reflect all 
relevant quality attributes and are found to be adequate to control the quality of the active substance.  
Limits of specified and unspecified related substances are set in line with ICH Q3A guidelines. The 
maximum level of total impurities is set at a level which is qualified with regard to safety. The limits for 
residual solvents are in line with ICH Q3C and Ph. Eur. requirements. The limits for assay are based on 
general pharmacopeial limits for active substances. 
Satisfactory data have been provided regarding Ph. Eur. and in-house analytical test methods. 
Analytical results of three production scale batches confirm batch to batch consistency and uniformity 
of the quality of the substance and indicate that the manufacturing process under control. 
Stability 
Efavirenz Teva 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/916997/2011  
Page 6/15 
 
 
 
 
 
     
Satisfactory stability data of three production scale batches of the active substance stored under ICH 
conditions at 30° ± 2°C/ 65 % ± 5 % RH and 40° ± 2°C/ 75 % ± 5 % RH, have been provided to 
support the proposed re-test period of 2 years without any special storage condition. The container 
closure system used in the stability studies is comparable to that proposed for the market. All results 
comply with the specifications and no trends are observed. 
1.5.3  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The main objective of the formulation development was to develop a medicinal product that is 
pharmaceutically and therapeutically equivalent to the reference product Sustiva 600 mg film-coated 
tablets.   
The comparative qualitative composition of the reference product and proposed product is provided. All 
the excipients used are well recognised for their role in pharmaceutical formulations and have been 
previously approved. The choice and compatibility of all the excipients has been appropriately justified. 
All the excipients comply with their respective Ph. Eur. monograph apart from Opadry II yellow which 
complies with Directive 2008/128/EC. The excipients were selected on basis of the compatibility 
studies and formulation trials. No difference in the safety and efficacy profile are expected from the 
differences in the qualitative composition of the excipients between the reference and proposed 
product. 
The comparative impurity profile of the test and the reference product is also provided. The 
degradation profiles are similar.   
Satisfactory comparative dissolution data between the generic and reference product were provided. 
Adventitious agents 
The supplier confirmed that lactose monohydrate is derived from milk and is therefore compliant with 
the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of Transmitting Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy 
Agents Via Human and Veterinary Medicinal Products (EMEA/410/01 Rev. 2). No excipients derived 
from human origin have been used. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process is a conventional technology consisting of a granulating step followed by 
mixing and tabletting steps and film coating with a ready to use mixture. 
The main process steps are supervised by suitable in-process controls and their acceptance criteria are 
specified.  
Process evaluation has been carried out on pilot scale batches. The manufacturing process is a well 
recognized standard process and therefore the data for validation of pilot batch is sufficient at this 
stage. Results of tested parameters are comparable batch to batch and are within proposed limits. 
Additional results were provided to demonstrate that same polymorphic form of efavirenz is maintained 
in the drug product during manufacture. The applicant has provided a commitment to validate the first 
three commercial batches. 
Product Specification  
Efavirenz Teva 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/916997/2011  
Page 7/15 
 
 
 
 
The specifications of the drug product include: appearance, uniformity of dosage units, identification by 
HPLC and UV, related substances (HPLC), dissolution (HPLC) and microbiological purity. The finished 
product specifications are standard for immediate release tablets. The proposed test procedures and 
acceptance criteria comply with the requirements of the Ph.Eur. and ICH guidelines. All tests included 
in the specification have been satisfactorily described and validated. 
Certificates of analysis of pilot batches are provided. The batch analysis results show that the finished 
product meets the proposed specifications and confirm the consistency & uniformity of manufacture 
indicating that the process is under control. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data are presented for the batches stored under ICH conditions: 25°C ± 2°C/60% ± 5%RH 
and 40°C ± 2°C/75% ± 5%RH). The control tests and specifications of drug product are adequately 
drawn up. Photostability tests were also performed and the medicinal product was found not to be 
photolabile. Based on the stability data provided the proposed shelf-life is granted, please consult the 
SmPC.  
1.5.4  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug product have 
been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance. 
1.5.5  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data have 
been presented to give reassurance on viral/TSE safety. 
1.5.6  Recommendation(s) for future quality development   
Not applicable. 
1.6  Non- Clinical aspects   
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. It is considered that the introduction of Efavirenz 
Teva is unlikely to result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all efavirenz 
containing products and consequently in the exposure of the environment to the active substance.  
Efavirenz Teva 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/916997/2011  
Page 8/15 
 
 
 
 
 
1.7  Clinical Aspects  
1.7.1  Introduction 
This is an application for film-coated tablets containing efavirenz. To support the marketing 
authorisation application the applicant conducted a bioequivalence study with cross-over design under 
fasting conditions. This study was the pivotal study for the assessment. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
1.7.2  Pharmacokinetics  
Clinical study 
A single bioequivalence study has been submitted in support of the application.. 
To support the marketing authorisation application the applicant conducted one bioequivalence study; 
the details of this study are summarised in Table 1. 
Table 1 
Summary of study  
Objective(s) of 
the Study 
Study 
Design and 
Type of 
Control 
Test Product(s); 
Dosage 
Regimen; Route 
of 
Administration 
Number of 
Subjects 
Duratio
n of 
Treat-
ment 
Healthy 
Subjects 
or 
Diagnosis 
of 
Patients 
Two tablet 
formulations, 
600 mg, oral 
36 enrolled 
(34 comple-
ted) 
Healthy 
subjects 
Single-
dose  
Determination of 
the relative 
bioavailability 
between a generic 
medicinal product 
and a reference 
product under 
fasting conditions 
Open-label, 
randomised, 
two period, 
two sequence, 
crossover 
study 
Methods 
Study design  
The  Study  2010-2409  was  an  open  label,  randomised,  two-treatment,  two-period,  two-sequence, 
single  dose  crossover  bioequivalence  study  conducted  in  healthy,  adult  subjects  under  fasting 
conditions.   
The study was performed in Canada. The clinical part of the study was undertaken from 27 June 2010 
to 28 July 2010. 
A single oral dose of 600mg of test and reference formulation was administered in each period. 
During each period, each subject received one of the following: one tablet of Efavirenz Teva, 600 mg 
or  one  tablet  of  Sustiva,  600  mg,  Bristol-Myers  Squibb,  taken  with  240mL  of  water.  Subjects  fasted 
Efavirenz Teva 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/916997/2011  
Page 9/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
overnight  for  at  least  10  hours  prior  to  drug  administration  and  for  at  least  4  hours  following  drug 
administration.  Standardised  xanthine-free  meals  with  caffeine-free  beverages  were  provided  to 
subjects at least 4 hours after drug administration in each period. A compliance check was performed 
immediately after drug administration. Blood samples were collected at predose,  1.0, 1.33, 1.67, 2.0, 
2.33, 2.67, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5, 5.0, 5.5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12, 16, 24, 36, 48, and 72 hours post dosing. The 
actual time of sample collection was documented. centrifugation. 
A 28 day washout period was observed between doses. 
This  application  contains  1  strength  of  efavirenz,  this  strength  was  selected  for  the  bioequivalence 
study.  Efavirenz  film-coated  tablets  is  an  immediate  release  formulation.  According  to  the  SmPC,  the 
product should be taken without food. There is no relevant accumulation with repeated doses. A single 
dose BE study in the fasting state is appropriate. The design of the study is acceptable. 
Test and reference products  
Test Product  
Dose  
Administration  
Lot number  
Efavirenz 600 mg film- coated tablets  
1 x 600 mg 
Oral 
K-44276 
Reference Product 
Dose  
Administration  
Lot number  
Expiry Date  
Sustiva 600 mg film-coated tablets (Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma, France) 
1 x 600 mg  
Oral 
B074 
November 2010 
Population(s) studied   
Thirty six (36) healthy male and female volunteers aged 18 years and older were entered in the study.  
Body mass indices (BMI) were within 18.5 and 30 kg/m2. The subjects were non-smokers. All subjects 
were randomly assigned to one of the two sequences in a balanced manner.  
The population chosen was acceptable. Inclusion and exclusion criteria were presented and acceptable.  
Analytical methods   
The  analytical  method  was  validated.  Plasma  concentrations  of  the  active  efavirenz  were  determined 
measured  according  to  a  liquid  chromatographic  (LC)  tandem  mass  spectrometric  detection  (MS/MS) 
achiral method. The analytical method used for quantification of efavirenz in the bioequivalence study 
allows  accurate  and  reproducible  quantification.  Within-study  accuracy  and  precision  were  within  the 
acceptance  range  based  on  back-calculated  concentrations  of  quality  control  (QC)  samples  and 
calibration  curve  samples.  The  analytical  validation  was  of  a  good  standard.  The  number  of  repeated 
samples was low and the reasons presented for repeating were acceptable. 
Pharmacokinetic Variables  
The pharmacokinetic variables follow the current European standard and are appropriate for this study. 
The  protocol  specified  80-125%  as  criteria  for  bioequivalence.  The  data  evaluation  follows  regulatory 
standards. 
Efavirenz Teva 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/916997/2011  
Page 10/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical methods   
Pharmacokinetic  parameters  for  efavirenz  plasma  concentration  were  calculated  with  SAS  using 
standard noncompartimental approaches. 
Descriptive  statistics  were  estimated  for  the  pharmacokinetic  parameters  in  each  treatment.  Analysis 
of  variance  (ANOVA)  was  applied  to  log-transformed  AUC0-72,  Cmax  and  Tmax  parameters.  The 
significance of the sequence, period, treatment, and subject-within-sequence effects were tested. The 
least-squares  means,  the  differences  between  the  treatments  least-squares  means,  and  the 
corresponding  standard  errors  of  these  differences  were  estimated  for  log-transformed  AUC0-72  and 
Cmax parameters. Based on these statistics, the ratios of the geometric means for treatments and the 
corresponding 90% confidence intervals were calculated. 
A  sample  size  of  32  was  calculated  to  be  necessary  to  obtain  90%  probability  that  90%  confidence 
intervals  will  fall  within  80-125%  range,  based  on  a  (literature  based)  assumption  of  an  18%  intra-
subject Cmax variability and a difference between the treatment means of 7.5% or less (a true ratio of 
means  between  92.5  and  107.5%).  Four  (4)  extra  subjects  were  included  as  per  protocol  to  account 
for drop-outs. 
Bioequivalence  was  to  be  declared  if  the  Test/Reference  ratios  of  geometric  means  of  Cmax,  and 
AUC0-72h, and their 90% confidence intervals were all contained in the interval 80.00 to 125.00% for 
efavirenz. 
All  values  below  the  lower  limit  of  quantification  (BLQ)  were  considered  as  zero  during  the 
pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis. Any missed samples or non-reportable values were considered 
missed as if they had not been scheduled for collection. 
The statistical methods were adequately described and were deemed acceptable. In line with the CPMP 
guideline  on  bioequivalence  (CPMP/QWP/EWP/1401/98  Rev.1)  an  AUC0-72h  (AUC  truncated  at  72  h) 
was used as an alternative to AUC(0-t) for comparison of extent of exposure. This is acceptable as the 
absorption phase has been covered by 72 h for immediate release formulations. 
There were no major protocol deviations. 
Results 
Thirty- four (34) out of 36 subjects completed both study periods. Two subjects were dismissed from 
the  study  during  period  I  and  at  period  II  check-  in,  respectively,  as  they  were  suspected  by  the 
investigator to participate in multiple clinical studies concurrently. 
There were three subjects with positive plasma concentrations at the beginning of period 2. In all cases 
the plasma concentration relative to Cmax was low (<2.5%).  
The pharmacokinetic parameters results obtained in the 34 subjects who were included in the analysis 
are presented in Table 2. 
Table 2 
Efavirenz 600mg film coated tablets (A= test, B= reference formulation) 
Statistical Summary of Ln-transformed Pharmacokinetic Parameters for 
Efavirenz Teva 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/916997/2011  
Page 11/15 
 
 
 
 
The  90%  confidence  intervals  for  the  ratio  of  geometric  means  of  AUC0-72  and  Cmax  of  the  test  to 
reference product are within the limits of 80% to 125%. Therefore, the results obtained demonstrate 
bioequivalence of the 600 mg film-coated with the reference product.  
Safety data 
In total 100 adverse events (AEs) in 29 subjects were observed, 55 and 45 each with the test and 
reference formulation. With both the test and the reference formulation. All AEs were considered mild.  
Of these 100 AEs, 66 (39 with the test formulation and 27 with the reference formulation) were 
considered possibly related to the study drug, while 34 AEs were judged to be likely unrelated to the 
study drug. 
None of the AEs had a significant impact on the safety of the subjects or on the integrity of the study 
results. 
Conclusions 
A standard BE study with two-period, two-sequence crossover design was conducted. The study design 
was  adequate  to  address  the  BE  of  an  immediate  release  oral  formulation  and  was  in  line  with  the 
respective  NfG  and  GCP  requirements.  A  single  dose  fasting  study  was  appropriate  as  the  product  is 
recommended to be taken on an empty stomach.  
The  analytical  part  of  the  study  adhered  to  the  GLP  requirements.  The  analytical  method  was 
validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The  test  formulation  of  600  mg  Efavirenz  film-coated  tablets  (TEVA  Pharma  B.V.)  met  the  protocol-
defined  criteria  for  bioequivalence  when  compared  with  600  mg  Sustiva  film-coated  tablets  (Bristol-
Myers  Squibb  Pharma)  administered  as  a  single  dose  of  1  x  600  mg  under  fasting  conditions. 
Bioequivalence of the two formulations was shown. 
1.7.3  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application. 
1.7.4  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
Efavirenz Teva 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/916997/2011  
Page 12/15 
 
 
 
 
 
1.8  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk Management Plan 
The application is based on a reference medicinal product for which no safety concerns requiring 
specific risk minimization activities have been identified. Therefore, a risk management plan was not 
considered necessary for this generic medicinal product. 
PSUR submission 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product. The next 
data lock point for the reference medicinal product is 16.06.2012. The next PSUR should cover the 
period from 17.04.11 to 16.04.12. 
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
2  Benefit-Risk Balance  
This application concerns a generic version of efavirenz film-coated tablets. The reference product 
Sustiva 600 mg film-coated tablets (Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma, France) is indicated in antiviral 
combination treatment of human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV 1) infected adults, adolescents and 
children 3 years of age and older. No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an 
adequate summary of the available nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and 
considered sufficient. From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance. 
The clinical overview based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with an open label, randomised, two-treatment, two-
period, two-sequence, single dose crossover bioequivalence study conducted in healthy, adult subjects 
under fasting conditions. The study design was considered adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of 
this formulation and was in line with the respective European requirements. Choice of dose, sampling 
points, overall sampling time as well as wash-out period were adequate. The analytical method was 
validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Efavirenz Teva met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when 
compared with the reference medicinal product. The point estimates and their 90% confidence 
intervals for the parameters AUC0-t,, AUC0-, and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-
defined acceptance range of 80.00 to 125.00%. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was 
demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
Efavirenz Teva 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/916997/2011  
Page 13/15 
 
 
 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Efavirenz Teva 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/916997/2011  
Page 14/15 
 
 
 
 
3  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Efavirenz Teva indicated in antiviral combination treatment of human 
immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV 1) infected adults, adolescents and children 3 years of age and older is 
favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Pharmacovigilance System  
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
Risk Management System  
Not applicable 
PSUR cycle 
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow PSURs submission schedule for the reference medicinal 
product. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable. 
Paediatric Data 
Not applicable. 
Efavirenz Teva 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/916997/2011  
Page 15/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
