EMA/883956/2011  
EMEA/H/C/002352 
EPAR summary for the public 
Efavirenz Teva 
efavirenz 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Efavirenz Teva. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Efavirenz Teva. 
What is Efavirenz Teva? 
Efavirenz Teva is a medicine that contains the active substance efavirenz. It is available as tablets (600 
mg). 
Efavirenz Teva is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Efavirenz Teva is similar to a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Sustiva. For more information on 
generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Efavirenz Teva used for? 
Efavirenz Teva is an antiviral medicine. It is used together with other antiviral medicines to treat adults 
and children aged three years or older infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), a 
virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS).  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Efavirenz Teva used? 
Treatment with Efavirenz Teva should be started by a doctor who has experience in the management 
of HIV infection. Efavirenz Teva must be given in combination with other antiviral medicines. It is 
recommended that Efavirenz Teva be taken on an empty stomach and without food, preferably at 
bedtime. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The recommended dose of Efavirenz Teva for adults is 600 mg once a day. Efavirenz Teva tablets are 
not suitable for children weighing less than 40 kg. Efavirenz-containing capsules are available for these 
patients.  
The dose of Efavirenz Teva needs to be reduced in patients taking voriconazole (used to treat fungal 
infections). Patients taking rifampicin (an antibiotic) may need to take a higher dose of Efavirenz Teva. 
For full details, see the summary of product characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
How does Efavirenz Teva work? 
The active substance in Efavirenz Teva, efavirenz, is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor 
(NNRTI). It blocks the activity of reverse transcriptase, an enzyme produced by HIV that allows it to 
infect cells in the body and make more viruses. By blocking this enzyme, Efavirenz Teva, taken in 
combination with other antiviral medicines, reduces the amount of HIV in the blood and keeps it at a 
low level. Efavirenz Teva does not cure HIV infection or AIDS, but it may delay the damage to the 
immune system and the development of infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
How has Efavirenz Teva been studied? 
Because Efavirenz Teva is a generic medicine, studies in patients have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Sustiva. Two medicines are bioequivalent 
when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Efavirenz Teva? 
Because Efavirenz Teva is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Efavirenz Teva been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Efavirenz Teva has been shown to 
have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Sustiva. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as 
for Sustiva, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Efavirenz Teva 
be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Efavirenz Teva 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Efavirenz Teva on 9 January 2012. 
The full EPAR for Efavirenz Teva can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Efavirenz Teva, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2011. 
Efavirenz Teva  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
