EMA/9058/2018 
EMEA/H/C/004274 
EPAR summary for the public 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka 
efavirenz / emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka. It explains how the Agency assessed the medicine to 
recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is not intended to provide practical 
advice on how to use the medicine. 
For practical information about using Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka, patients should 
read the package leaflet or contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka and what is it 
used for? 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka is an antiviral medicine used to treat adults infected 
with human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1), a virus that causes acquired immune deficiency 
syndrome (AIDS).  
It is only used in patients whose levels of HIV in the blood (viral load) have been below 50 copies/ml 
for more than 3 months on their current HIV treatment combination. It must not be used in patients in 
whom any previous HIV treatment combinations have not worked or have stopped working. Also, it 
must not be started in patients who have ever been infected with HIV that is resistant to any of the 
three active substances in the medicine. 
The medicine contains the active substances efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil and is a 
‘generic medicine’. This means that it contains the same active substances and works in the same way 
as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Atripla. For more 
information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is the medicine used? 
This medicine is available as tablets and can only be obtained with a prescription. Treatment should be 
started by a doctor who has experience in the management of HIV infection. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The recommended dose is one tablet daily. It is recommended that the medicine is taken on an empty 
stomach, preferably at bedtime. Patients should take the medicine regularly and not miss any doses. 
If patients need to stop taking one of the active substances in the medicine, or need to take different 
doses, they will need to change to separate individual medicines. For more information, see the 
package leaflet. 
How does it work? 
This medicine contains three active substances: efavirenz, which is a non-nucleoside reverse 
transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI); emtricitabine, which is a nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor; 
and tenofovir disoproxil, which is a ‘prodrug’ of tenofovir, meaning that it is converted into the active 
substance tenofovir in the body. Tenofovir is a nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor. Both 
nucleoside and nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors are commonly known as NRTIs. All three 
active substances block the activity of reverse transcriptase, an enzyme that allows HIV to reproduce 
itself in the cells it has infected. 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka keeps the amount of HIV in the blood at a low level. 
It does not cure HIV infection or AIDS, but it may hold off the damage to the immune system and the 
development of infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
How has the medicine been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the approved use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Atripla, and do not need to be repeated for 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on its quality. The company also carried out a 
study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two medicines are bioequivalent 
when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body and are therefore expected to 
have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of this medicine? 
Because Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to 
the reference medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is the medicine approved? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, the medicine has 
been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Atripla. Therefore, the Agency’s 
view was that, as for Atripla, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Agency recommended that 
it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of this 
medicine? 
The company that markets the medicine will ensure that all doctors expected to prescribe the medicine 
are provided with an educational pack that includes information on the increased risk of kidney disease 
with medicines containing tenofovir disoproxil such as this one. The educational pack also contains 
recommendations for monitoring kidney function in patients taking the medicine. 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka  
EMA/9058/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for its safe 
and effective use have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the package 
leaflet. 
Other information about Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka on 8 February 2018. 
The full EPAR for Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For 
more information about treatment with Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka, read the 
package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 02-2018. 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka  
EMA/9058/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
