EMA/328788/2017 
EMEA/H/C/004250 
EPAR summary for the public 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 
Efavirenz / emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva. It explains how the Agency assessed the medicine 
to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is not intended to provide 
practical advice on how to use the medicine. 
For practical information about using Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva, patients 
should read the package leaflet or contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva and what is it 
used for? 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is a medicine used to treat adults infected with 
human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1), a virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome 
(AIDS).  
It is only used in patients who have responded well to their current HIV treatment and who do not 
have an HIV infection that is resistant to treatment or not likely to respond to one of the active 
substances in the medicine.  
The medicine contains the active substances efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil and is a 
‘generic medicine’. This means that it contains the same active substances and works in the same way 
as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Atripla. For more 
information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is the medicine used? 
This medicine is available as tablets and can only be obtained with a prescription. Treatment should be 
started by a doctor who has experience in the management of HIV infection. The recommended dose is 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
one tablet daily, swallowed whole with water. It is recommended that the medicine be taken on an 
empty stomach, preferably at bedtime. Patients should take the medicine regularly and avoid missing 
doses. 
If patients need to stop taking one of the active substances in the medicine, or need to take different 
doses, they will need to change to separate individual medicines. This medicine should not be taken at 
the same time as other medicines that contain efavirenz, emtricitabine or tenofovir disoproxil, or 
lamivudine (another antiviral medicine). For more information, see the summary of product 
characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
How does it work? 
This medicine contains three active substances: efavirenz, which is a non-nucleoside reverse 
transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI); emtricitabine, which is a nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor; 
and tenofovir disoproxil, which is a ‘prodrug’ of tenofovir, meaning that it is converted into the active 
substance tenofovir in the body. Tenofovir is a nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor. Both 
nucleoside and nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors are commonly known as NRTIs. All three 
active substances block the activity of reverse transcriptase, an enzyme produced by HIV that allows it 
to reproduce itself in the cells it has infected. 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva keeps the amount of HIV in the blood at a low 
level. It does not cure HIV infection or AIDS, but it may hold off the damage to the immune system 
and the development of infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
How has the medicine been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the approved use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Atripla, and do not need to be repeated for 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on its quality. The company also carried out a 
study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two medicines are bioequivalent 
when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body and are therefore expected to 
have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of this medicine? 
Because Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent 
to the reference medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference 
medicine’s. 
Why is the medicine approved? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, the medicine has 
been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Atripla. Therefore, the Agency’s 
view was that, as for Atripla, the benefit outweighs the identified risk.  
The Agency recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva  
EMA/328788/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of this 
medicine? 
The company that markets the medicine will ensure that all doctors expected to prescribe the medicine 
are provided with an educational pack that includes information on the increased risk of kidney disease 
with tenofovir disoproxil-containing medicines such as this one. The educational pack also contains 
recommendations for monitoring kidney function in patients taking the medicine. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for its safe 
and effective use have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the package 
leaflet.   
Other information about Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
Zentiva 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva on 17 July 2017. 
The full EPAR can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with this 
medicine, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2017. 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva  
EMA/328788/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
