14 December 2017 
EMA/846772/2017 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka  
International non-proprietary name: efavirenz / emtricitabine / tenofovir 
disoproxil 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004274/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ..................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ........................................................ 7 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 7 
2.1. Introduction ........................................................................................................ 7 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.1. Introduction ..................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................... 8 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ............................................................................... 13 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ........................................... 17 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 17 
2.2.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development ............................................. 17 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 17 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 17 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 17 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects ..................................................................... 18 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ............................................................... 18 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 18 
2.4.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 18 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 19 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 24 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ............................................................................... 24 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 24 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 25 
2.5. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 26 
2.6. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................. 35 
2.7. Product information ............................................................................................ 35 
2.7.1. User consultation ............................................................................................ 35 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 36 
4. Recommendation................................................................................... 36 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 2/38 
 
  
  
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ART    
Antiretroviral therapy 
ASMF   
Active substance master file 
AUC 0-T  
Cumulative area under the plasma concentration time curve calculated from 0 to 
TLQC using the linear trapezoidal method 
AUC 0-∞  
Area under the plasma concentration time curve extrapolated to infinity, calculated 
as AUC0-T + ĈLQC/λz, where ĈLQC is the estimated concentration at time TLQC  
AUC 0-T/∞  
Relative Percentage  of AUCT with respect of AUC∞ 
BMD   
Bone Mineral Density 
C max  
Maximum observed plasma concentration 
CHMP   
Committee for Human Medicinal Products 
CYP    
Cytochrome  
DAD 
DS   
DSC 
DF  
Diode array detection 
Disoproxil succinate 
Differential Scanning Calorimetry 
Disoproxil fumarate 
ERA     
Environmental Risk Assessment 
GC-HS 
Gas Chromatography head space 
HDPE   
High Density Polyethylene 
HIV 
Human Immunodeficiency Virus 
HBV    
Hepatitis B Virus 
HPLC     
High performance liquid chromatography 
ICH       
International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements 
IR 
KF  
Infrared 
Karl Fischer titration 
LDPE   
Low Density Polyethylene 
Ph. Eur. 
European Pharmacopoeia 
RMP     
Risk Management Plan 
T max 
Time of maximum observed plasma concentration; if it occurs at more than one 
time point, Tmax was defined as the first time point with this value 
TLQC     
Time of last observed quantifiable plasma concentration 
TLIN  
λz  
Time point where log-linear elimination phase begins 
Apparent elimination rate constant, estimated by linear regression of the terminal 
linear portion of the log concentration versus time curve  
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 3/38 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thalf.  
TLSB 
Terminal elimination half-life 
Triple laminated sunlight barrier 
UHPLC   
Ultra high performance liquid chromatography 
UV 
XRD 
Ultraviolet 
X-Ray Diffraction 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 4/38 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto submitted on 26 April 2017 an application for marketing 
authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil Krka, through the centralised procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 
726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The eligibility to the centralised 
procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 23 July 2015. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product, as defined in Article 10 (2)(a) of Directive 
2001/83/EC, for which a marketing authorisation is or has been granted in the Union on the 
basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 10b of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka is a fixed-dose combination of efavirenz, 
emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil. It is indicated for the treatment of human 
immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection in adults aged 18 years and over with virologic 
suppression to HIV-1 RNA levels of < 50 copies/ml on their current combination antiretroviral 
therapy for more than three months. Patients must not have experienced virological failure on 
any prior antiretroviral therapy and must be known not to have harboured virus strains with 
mutations conferring significant resistance to any of the three components contained in 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka prior to initiation of their first antiretroviral 
treatment regimen. 
The demonstration of the benefit of efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil is primarily 
based on 48-week data from a clinical study in which patients with stable virologic suppression 
on a combination antiretroviral therapy changed to efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil. 
No data are currently available from clinical studies with efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir 
disoproxil in treatment-naïve or in heavily pretreated patients.  
No data are available to support the combination of efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil 
and other antiretroviral agents. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and 
a bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Atripla instead of non-clinical and 
clinical unless justified otherwise. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 5/38 
 
  
  
 
 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form:Atripla 600 mg/ 200 mg/ 245 mg film-coated 
tablet 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead Sciences Limited 
•  Date of authorisation: 13-12-2007 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
•  EU Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/07/430/001-002 
Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form:Atripla 600 mg/ 200 mg/ 245 mg film-coated 
tablet 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead Sciences Limited 
•  Date of authorisation: 13-12-2007 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
•  EU Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/07/430/001-002 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form:Atripla 600 mg/ 200 mg/ 245 mg film-coated 
tablet 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead Sciences Limited 
•  Date of authorisation: 13-12-2007 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
•  EU Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/07/430/001-002 
•  Bioavailability study number(s): KRS-P7-060 (SponsorNo 16-520) 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation 
(EC) No 847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible 
similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan 
medicinal product for a condition related to the proposed indication. 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 6/38 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur:  John Joseph Borg 
Co-Rapporteur:   
n/a 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 26 April 2017.  
The procedure started on 18 May 2017. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 4 August 
2017. The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC members on 
17 August 2017 
•  During the meeting on 14 September 2017, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. 
• 
• 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 13 
October 2017 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 20 November 2017.  
•  During the PRAC meeting on 30 November 2017, the PRAC agreed on a PRAC Assessment 
Overview and Advice to CHMP. 
•  During the meeting on 14 December 2017, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data 
submitted and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for 
granting a Marketing authorisation to Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Efavirenz-Emtricitabine-Tenofovir disoproxil Krka 600-200-245 mg film-coated tablets were 
developed as a generic equivalent to the innovator´s product Atripla 600/200/245 mg film-coated 
tablets. The innovator´s product was authorized in EU on 13.12.2007 as a fixed dose combination 
for treatment of HIV-1 infected adults aged 18 years and over. The marketing authorization 
holder is Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead Science Ltd., UK.  
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir is a well-known, well-described antiviral combination for the 
treatment of HIV. The pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics are currently well described and 
a number of PK data in less frequently studied compartments and in special populations have 
been published recently. 
Efavirenz binds directly to the HIV-1 reverse transcriptase resulting in allosteric inhibition of DNA- 
and RNA- dependent DNA polymerase. 
Emtricitabine is a synthetic nucleoside analogue of cytidine and undergoes intracellular 
phosphorylation to form the active metabolite, emtricitabine 5´-triphosphate, which competes 
with deoxycytidine 5´-triphosphate and becomes incorporated into HIV-1 DNA, resulting in viral 
DNA chain termination and the inhibition of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase activity. 
Tenofovir is a nucleotide analogue of adenosine monophosphate. Its active metabolite, tenofovir 
diphosphate, competes with natural deoxyadenosine triphosphate for the active binding site on 
the HIV-induced reverse transcriptase (HIV DNA polymerase). Incorporation of tenofovir 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 7/38 
 
  
  
 
diphosphate into viral DNA results in chain termination, since tenofovir diphosphate lacks the 
hydroxyl group in the 3´-position, which acts as the point of attachment for the next 
deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate. Hence, reverse transcription, the key step in HIV proliferation, 
is inhibited. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka is a fixed-dose combination of efavirenz, 
emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil. It is indicated for the treatment of human 
immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection in adults aged 18 years and over with virologic 
suppression to HIV-1 RNA levels of < 50 copies/ml on their current combination antiretroviral 
therapy for more than three months. Patients must not have experienced virological failure on 
any prior antiretroviral therapy and must be known not to have harboured virus strains with 
mutations conferring significant resistance to any of the three components contained in 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka prior to initiation of their first antiretroviral 
treatment regimen. 
The demonstration of the benefit of efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil is primarily 
based on 48-week data from a clinical study in which patients with stable virologic suppression 
on a combination antiretroviral therapy changed to efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil. 
No data are currently available from clinical studies with efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir 
disoproxil in treatment-naïve or in heavily pretreated patients.  
No data are available to support the combination of efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil 
and other antiretroviral agents. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as film coated tablets containing 600 mg/200 mg/245 mg of 
efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil as active substances.  
Other ingredients are:  
Tablet core: microcrystalline cellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose, sodium laurilsulfate, croscarmellose 
sodium, ferric oxide red (E172), magnesium stearate, and sodium stearyl fumarate 
Film coating: poly(vinyl alcohol), macrogol 3350, titanum dioxide (E171), talc, ferric oxide red 
(E172), and ferric oxide yellow (E172) 
The product is available in high density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle with a polypropylene closure 
with integrated a silica gel desiccant as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
Information of the three active substances has been provided in three ASMFs.  All three ASMFs 
have already been assessed in other centralised procedures (all concluded). Only updates to 
previously assessed (and approved) versions have been assessed in this centralised procedure, for 
each ASMF for each active substance. 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 8/38 
 
  
  
 
Efavirenz 
General information 
The chemical name of efavirenz is (4S)-6-chloro-4-(2-cyclopropylethynyl)-4-(trifluoromethyl)-1H-
3,1-benzoxazin-2-one corresponding to the molecular formula C14H9CiF3NO2. It has a relative 
molecular mass of 316.67 g/mol and the following structure: 
Figure 1: Efavirenz structure 
The chemical structure of the active substance was elucidated by a combination of elemental 
analysis (C, H, N), mass spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H NMR and 13C 
NMR), infra-red spectroscopy, UV spectroscopy, identification by HPLC, XPRD and DSC. 
The active substance is a white to off-white powder, non-hygroscopic and feely soluble in methanol 
and in dichloromethane and practically insoluble in water.  
Efavirenz exhibits stereoisomerism due to the presence of 1 chiral centre and corresponds to the S-
enantiomer. Enantiomeric purity is controlled routinely in the specifications by chiral HPLC.  
Polymorphism has been observed for efavirenz. The polymorphic form consistently manufactured is 
Form I. Form I is confirmed by DSC and XRD.  
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the 
restricted part of the ASMF and it was considered satisfactory. 
The active substance is manufactured by one manufacturer.  
The active substance is synthesized in 4 main steps using well defined starting materials with 
acceptable specifications.  
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control 
methods for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented.  
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU 
guideline on chemistry of new active substances. 
Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. 
The active substance is packaged in double LDPE bags (inner transparent, outer black) placed in a 
HDPE drum which complies with the EC directive 2002/72/EC and EC 10/2011 as amended. 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 9/38 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Specification 
The active substance specification set by the manufacturer of the finished product  includes tests 
for appearance (visual), solubility (Ph. Eur.), identification (IR, HPLC), water content (KF), 
sulphated ash (Ph. Eur.),  enantiomeric purity (HPLC), impurities (HPLC), assay (HPLC), residual 
solvents (GC-HS), microbiological quality (Ph. Eur.) , and particle size (laser diffraction). 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and non-compendial methods 
appropriately validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding 
the reference standards used for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data on 18 production scale batches of the active substance are provided. The 
results are within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability  data  from  40  production  scale  batches  of  active  substance  from  the  proposed 
manufacturer  stored  in  the  intended  commercial  package  for  up  to  60  months  under  long  term 
conditions  (25  ºC  /  60%  RH)  and  for  up  to  6  months  under  accelerated  conditions  (40  ºC  /  75% 
RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided.  
The following parameters were tested: description, identification, polymorphic form, specific optical 
rotation,  water  content,  limit  of  efavirenz  enantiomer,  related  substances,  and  assay.  The 
analytical methods used were the same as for release and were stability indicating.  
All tested parameters were within the specifications under long term and accelerated conditions.   
The  stability  results  indicate  that  the  active  substance  manufactured  by  the  proposed  supplier  is 
sufficiently  stable.  The  stability  results  justify  the  proposed  retest  period  of  60  months  store  in  a 
well closed container, protected from light at a temperature not exceeding 25º C. in the proposed 
container. 
Emtricitabine 
General information 
The chemical name of emtricitabine is 4-Amino-5-fluoro-1-[(2R,5S)-2-(hydroxymethyl)- 1,3-
oxathiolan-5- yl]-2(1H)-pyrimidinonecorresponding to the molecular formula C 8H10FN3O3S. It has 
a relative molecular mass of 247.30 g/mol and the following structure: 
Figure 2: Emtricitabine structure 
The chemical structure of emtricitabine was elucidated by a combination of elemental analysis 
(C,H,N &S), mass spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H NMR & 13C NMR), IR 
spectroscopy, UV spectroscopy, identification by HPLC, and X-Ray diffraction 
The active substance is a white to almost white crystalline powder, it is not hygroscopic and it is 
freely soluble in methanol and water, practically insoluble in dichloromethane.  
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 10/38 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Emtricitabine exhibits stereoisomerism due to the presence of 2 chiral centres and corresponds to 
the cis enantiomer with 2R, 5S absolute configuration. Enantiomeric purity is controlled routinely 
by chiral HPLC in the specifications of the active substance.   
Polymorphism has been observed for emtricitabine. A number of different forms, such as form I, II, 
III, hydrated forms and an amorphous form are known.  The polymorphic form consistently 
manufactured is Form I. The polymorph Form I is confirmed by XRD.  
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the 
restricted part of the ASMF and it was considered satisfactory. 
Emtricitabine is manufactured by one manufacturing site. 
Emtricitabine is synthesized in 5 main steps using commercially available well defined starting 
materials with acceptable specifications. 
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control 
methods for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented.  
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU 
guideline on chemistry of new active substances. 
Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. 
The  active  substance  is  packaged  in  transparent  low  density  polyethylene  bag  with  tag  seal, 
followed by secondary transparent low density polyethylene bag with heat seal and finally kept in 
high  density  polyethylene  container  which  complies  with  the  EC  directive  2002/72/EC  and  EC 
10/2011 as amended. 
Specification 
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance  (visual),  solubility  (Ph.  Eur.), 
identification ((IR, specific optical rotation (Ph. Eur.)), loss on drying (Ph. Eur.), sulphated ash (Ph. 
Eur.),  enantiomer  and  emtricitabine  diasteromers  content  (HPLC),  related  substances  (HPLC), 
assay (HPLC), residual solvents (GC-HS), microbiological quality (Ph. Eur.), and particle size (laser 
diffraction).  
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and non-compendial methods 
appropriately validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding 
the reference standards used for impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data on 24 production scale batches of the active substance are provided. The 
results are within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability data from 15 production scale batches of active substance from the proposed 
manufacturer stored in the intended commercial packagefor up to 60 months under long term 
conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 75% 
RH) according to the ICH guidelines were provided.  
The following parameters were tested: description, identification, loss on drying, related 
substances and assay. The analytical methods used were the same as for release and were stability 
indicating.  
All tested parameters were within the specifications under long term and accelerated conditions.   
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 11/38 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
The stability results indicate that the active substance manufactured by the proposed supplier is 
sufficiently stable. The stability results justify the proposed retest period of 60 months in the 
proposed container. Store in a well closed container, do not store above 30°C. 
Tenofovir disoproxil succinate 
General information 
The chemical name of tenofovir disoproxil succinate is 9-[(R)-2-
[[Bis(isopropoxycarbonyl)oxy]methoxy] phosphinyl] methoxy]propyl]adenine succinate 
corresponding to the molecular formula C 23H36N5O14P. It has a relative molecular mass of 637.51 
g/mol and the following structure: 
Figure 3: Tenofovir disoproxil succinate structure 
The chemical structure of the active substance was elucidated by a combination of elemental 
analysis (C,H & N), mass spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H NMR & 13C 
NMR), infra-red spectroscopy, UV spectroscopy, identification by HPLC, and X-Ray diffraction. 
The active substance is a no hygroscopic white to off white powder, freely soluble in 
dimethylformamide, soluble in methanol, and soluble in water at pH 1.2.  
Tenofovir disoproxil succinate exhibits stereoisomerism due to the presence of 1 chiral centre. The 
R-isomer is consistently manufactured. Enantiomeric purity is controlled routinely in the 
specifications by chiral HPLC.  
Polymorphism has been observed for the active substance. The same crystalline form is 
consistently produced. Confirmation X-Ray diffractograms of validation batches of the active 
substance were presented. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the 
restricted part of the ASMF and it was considered satisfactory. 
Tenofovir disoproxil succinate is manufactured by one manufacturing site. 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 12/38 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Tenofovir disoproxil succinate is synthesized in 3 main steps using commercially available well 
defined starting materials with acceptable specifications.  
Adequate in-process controls are applied during the synthesis. The specifications and control 
methods for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented.  
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU 
guideline on chemistry of new active substances. 
Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to their origin and characterised. 
The active substance is packaged in transparent low density polyethylene bag tied with nylon strip 
seal. This bag is kept in  another transparent low-density polyethylene (LDPE)  bag again tied with 
nylon strip seal. This pack is kept in triple laminated sunlight barrier (TLSB) bag and is heat sealed. 
This is finally kept in high density polyethylene (HDPE) drum which complies with the EC directive 
2002/72/EC and EC 10/2011 as amended. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance (visual), solubility (Ph. Eur.), 
identification (IR, HPLC), water content (KF), sulphated ash (Ph. Eur.), S-isomer content (HPLC), 
related substances (HPLC), assay (HPLC), residual solvents (GC, GC-HS), microbiological quality 
(Ph. Eur.), and particle size (laser diffraction .  
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and non-compendial methods 
appropriately validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding 
the reference standards used for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data on 3 commercial scale and 6 pilot scale batches of the active substance are 
provided. The results are within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability  data  from  3  commercial  scale  batches  of  active  substance  from  the  proposed 
manufacturer  stored  in  the  intended  commercial  package  for  up  to  24  months  under  long  term 
conditions  (5±3  ºC)  and  for  up  to  6  months  under  accelerated  conditions  (25  ºC  /  60%  RH) 
according  to the  ICH  guidelines  were  provided.  Additional  data  from  3  revalidation  batches  and  3 
scale  up  batches  of  active  substance  from  the  proposed  manufacturer  stored  in  the  intended 
commercial  package  for  up  to  6  months  under  long  term  conditions  (5±3  ºC)  and  for  up  to  6 
months under accelerated conditions (25 ºC / 60% RH) were also provided. 
The following parameters were tested: description, identification, water content, S-isomer content, 
related  substances,  tenofovir  disoproxil  dimer  impurity,  chloromethyl  isopropyl  carbonate  and 
assay. The analytical methods used were the same as for release and were stability indicating. 
All tested parameters were within the specifications under long term and accelerated conditions. 
The  stability  results  indicate  that  the  active  substance  manufactured  by  the  proposed  supplier  is 
sufficiently  stable.  The  stability  results  justify  the  proposed  retest  period  of  30  months  stored  at 
2°-8°C in the proposed container. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 13/38 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir 600 mg/200 mg/245 mg film-coated tablets are light orange 
pink, oval, biconvex, film-coated tablets with bevelled edges. 
The aim of the development was to develop a product essentially similar to the reference medicinal 
product  (Atripla  600mg/200mg/245mg  film-coated  tablets),  with  acceptable  quality  and  a 
manufacturing  process  to  consistently  deliver  the  intended  performance  of  the  product  and 
acceptable stability in the proposed packaging. 
The  present  formulation  was  developed  in  the  form  of  film-coated  bilayer  tablet,  wherein 
emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  disoproxil  are  present  in  one  layer  and  efavirenz  is  present  in  a 
separate  layer.  Bilayer  formulation  solution  was  also  used  for  the  manufacturing  of  the  reference 
medicinal product.  
A different salt of tenofovir disoproxil is used compared to the reference product (succinate rather 
than  fumarate).  The  potential  impact  of  this  difference  on  pharmaceutical  aspects  (e.g.  stability 
and compatibility with excipients) and clinical performance (e.g. in vivo PK) has been discussed in 
detail. The choice of the succinate salt is considered justified. 
All excipients are well known pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur. 
standards.  There  are  no  novel  excipients  used  in  the  finished  product  formulation.  The  list  of 
excipients is included in section 6.1 of the SmPC and in paragraph 2.1.1 of this report. 
The objective of the development of the formulation was to ensure adequate chemical stability of 
the  finished  product,  develop  a  robust  formulation  and  an  efficient,  simple  and  reproducible 
manufacturing process. For this reason, the aim was that the tablet formulation should possess the 
following physical properties to assure optimal technical feasibility and stability of the formulation: 
flowability, compatibility, lubricating ability and appearance. 
During  formulation  development,  composition  was  modified  based  on  the  knowledge  from 
emtricitabine/tenofovir  formulation  development  in  order  to  improve  product’s  chemical  stability 
and  at  the  same  time  achieve  optimal  technological  processability.    To  evaluate  the  effect  of  this 
compositional  change  on  emtricitabine/tenofovir  layer  dissolution  properties,  experiments  were 
carried  out.  No  difference  in  dissolution  of  emtricitabine  was  observed  between  the  experiments. 
Efavirenz  is  known  as  low  solubility  BCS  class  II  substance;  formulation  parameters  of  efavirenz 
layer and particle size were also tested to understand and define key formulation properties during 
development. 
Bioequivalence  study  was  performed  showing  bioequivalence  between  the  reference  medicinal 
product and the proposed generic medicinal product. 
The discriminative power of the dissolution methods was checked.  The discriminatory power of the 
dissolution  method  for  efavirenz  was  also  challenged  with  a  variety  of  experiments  that  were 
prepared  during  development.  These  experiments  included:  differences  in  manufacturing  process, 
differences in the characteristics of active pharmaceutical ingredient and differences in the finished 
product  composition.  The  results  of  testing  the  discriminative  power  for  emtricitabine/tenofovir 
confirmed that dissolution methods are proven as selective and capable to discriminate. Therefore, 
the discriminatory power of the dissolution methods was considered to be demonstrated. 
Comparative dissolution profile was performed on pilot scale batches only. The applicant committed 
that, as the full scale production batches were not available at the time of submission, comparative 
dissolution profile testing will be undertaken on the first three full scale production scale batches, 
and the applicant will not market a batch until this comparative dissolution profile testing has been 
completed.  The  results  will  be  provided  at  a  competent  authority’s  request  or  if  the  dissolution 
profiles are not similar together with proposed action to be taken 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 14/38 
 
  
  
 
 
The  process  parameters  that  could  potentially  affect  the  drug  release  were  discussed  and  are 
controlled by suitable limits to ensure consistent product performance.  
The  primary  packaging  is  high  density  polyethylene  (HDPE)  bottle  with  a  child-resistant  tamper 
evident  polypropylene  closure  with  integrated  a  silica  gel  desiccant.  The  material  complies  with 
Ph.Eur.  and  EC  requirements.  The  choice  of  the  container  closure  system  has  been  validated  by 
stability data and is adequate for the intended use of the product.  
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The finished product is manufactured by one manufacturing site. 
The manufacturing process consists of 8 main steps: sieving, mixing, granulating, blending, roller 
compaction,  milling,  tabletting  and  film-coating.  The  process  is  considered  to  be  a  standard 
manufacturing  process.  The  flow  chart  of  the  manufacturing  process  of  the  finished  product  was 
provided and considered satisfactory. 
Process  validation  data  has  been  provided  on  three  batches  pilot  scale  batches.  A  process 
validation  scheme  has  also  been  provided.  The  process  validation  data  complies  with  the 
established  specifications,  for  each  stage  of  the  manufacturing  process.  The  applicant  committed 
that the first three production scale batches of the finished product will be validated at each scale 
in accordance with the validation protocol presented. 
It  has  been  demonstrated  that  the  manufacturing  process  is  capable  of  producing  the  finished 
product of intended quality in a reproducible manner. The in-process controls are adequate for this 
type of manufacturing process. 
Product specification  
The  finished  product  release  specifications  include  appropriate  tests  for  this  kind  of  dosage  form: 
appearance (visual), water (Ph. Eur.), uniformity of dosage units – content uniformity of efavirenz, 
emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  disoproxil  (Ph.  Eur.),  identification  of    efavirenz,  emtricitabine  and 
tenofovir  disoproxil  (HPLC,  DAD),  impurities  (UHPLC),  content  of    efavirenz,  emtricitabine  and 
tenofovir  disoproxil  (HPLC),  dissolution  of  efavirenz,  emtricitabine  and  tenofovir  disoproxil  (Ph. 
Eur.) and microbiological quality (Ph. Eur.). 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in 
accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards 
used for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis results are provided for three commercial scale batches confirming the consistency 
of the manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the intended product specification.  
The finished product is released on the market based on the above release specifications, through 
traditional final product release testing 
Stability of the product 
Stability data from 2 production scale batches of finished product stored for up to 12 months under 
long term conditions (25ºC / 60% RH) and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40ºC / 
75%  RH)  according  to  the  ICH  guidelines  were  provided.  The  batches  of  the  finished  product  are 
identical  to  those  proposed  for  marketing  and  were  packed  in  in  plastic  containers  with  desiccant 
(different to the container proposed for marketing). 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 15/38 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Samples were tested for appearance, water, related substances of efavirenz, related substances of 
emtricitabine,  related  substances  of  tenofovir  disoproxil,  content  of  efavirenz,  content  of 
emtricitabine,  content of  tenofovir  disoproxil,  dissolution of  efavirenz,  dissolution  of  emtricitabine, 
dissolution of tenofovir disoproxil, microbiological quality. The same analytical methods are used in 
the  stability  testing  as  for  finished  product  release  testing.  The  analytical  procedures  used  are 
stability  indicating.  No  significant  changes  have  been  observed  under  long  term  and  accelerated 
conditions.  The  applicant  committed  that  stability  testing  on  the  two  batches  presented  will  be 
continued  until  the  end  of  the  shelf-life  period  is  reached.  In  case  of  out  of  specification  results, 
authorities will be informed with proposed actions to be taken. The applicant  also committed that 
additional  first  three  larger  production  scale  batches  will  be  placed  on  long-term  stability  studies 
throughout  the  proposed  shelf-life  and  at  accelerated  conditions  for  6  months.  In  case  of  out  of 
specification  results  authorities  will  he  informed  with  proposed  actions  to  be  taken  ,and  that  first 
three larger production scale batches put on stability testing in plastic containers with desiccant will 
be  closed  with  the  child  resistant  temper  evident  screw  caps.  Moreover,  the  applicant  also 
committed that in accordance with GMP requirements, one production batch per year will be put on 
follow-up  stability  testing  program  on  long  term  condition  25°C/60%RH.  Stability  testing  will  be 
performed  until  the  end  of  shelf-life  period  is  reached.  In  case  of  out  of  specification  results 
authorities will be informed with proposed actions to be taken. 
In  addition,  one  batch  was  exposed  to  light  as  defined  in  the  ICH  Guideline  on  Photostability 
Testing of New Drug Substances and Products. No significant changes were observed. 
In-use stability testing (after the first opening of the container) was performed in 2 batches. In one 
batch,  the  testing  started  at  the  beginning  of  the  shelf  life  for  2  months.  For  the  second  batch, 
samples  were  stored  in  original  packaging  before  The  in-use  test  simulates  the  intended  use  of 
product  packed  in  multidose  containers  application  of  1  tablet  per  day.  The  containers  were 
opened, shaken and closed daily for 60 days.  
Practically no change of testing parameters has been observed after in-use testing neither for both 
batches.  As  seen  from  stability  profile  during  in-use  testing  of  final  product,  where  practically  no 
increase in impurity profile and no change of other testing parameters have been observed, it was 
considered  that  no  stability  issue  is  expected  also  for  in-use  stability  testing  of  final  product  that 
will be performed at the end of 24 months stability testing. Nevertheless, the CHMP recommended 
that  2  months  in-use  stability  testing  should  be  performed  also  on  one  batch  towards  the  end  of 
the 24 month shelf life according to the stability protocol for in-use stability testing. In case of out 
of specification results authorities will be informed with proposed actions to be taken. 
Open-air  stability  testing  was  performed  on  one  batch  at  25±2°C/60±5%RH  in  open  containers. 
The  test  simulates  the  intended  use  of  product  outside  immediate  packaging  for  hospital 
dispensing.  An  increase  of  some  parameters  was  observed  but  the  values  still  comply  with  the 
requirements. Other tested parameters remained unchanged.  
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 24 months, do not store above 30°C, 
and keep the container tightly closed in order to protect from moisture, and 2 months shelf life 
after first opening when stored in original packaging at the temperature not above 25°C as stated 
in the SmPC (section 6.3) are acceptable. 
Adventitious agents 
No excipients derived from animal or human origin have been used. 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 16/38 
 
  
  
 
 
 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product 
has been presented in a satisfactory manner for this generic medicinal product. The results of tests 
carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and 
these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform 
performance in clinical use.  
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were a number of minor unresolved quality issues having 
no impact on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological 
aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the 
conditions defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform 
clinical performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific 
progress, the CHMP recommends the following point for investigation: 
1. 2 months in-use stability testing should be performed also on one batch towards the end of the 
24 month shelf life according to the stability protocol for in-use stability testing. In case of out of 
specification results authorities will be informed with proposed actions to be taken. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of efavirenz, emtricitabine and 
tenofovir DS are well known. As this combination is widely used and well-known, the applicant did 
not provide additional studies and further studies were not required by the CHMP. Overall, the 
non-clinical overview based on literature review was considered appropriate. 
A summary of the literature with regard to non-clinical data of efavirenz, emtricitabine and 
tenofovir DS included justifications that the different salt of the active substance did not differ 
significantly in properties with regards to safety and efficacy from the reference product. This is in 
accordance with the relevant guideline and additional non-clinical studies were not considered 
necessary by the CHMP. 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The applicant submitted a statement that this combination product of efavirenz, emtricitabine and 
tenofovir DS does not contain any genetically modified organisms. Since efavirenz, emtricitabine 
and tenofovir has already been present on the European market with the originator's product for 
several years with recognized efficacy and an acceptable level of safety, the introduction of the 
generic product onto the market is unlikely to result in any significant increase in the 
environmental exposure and would thus not be expected to have an adverse effect upon the 
environment. With this regard and on the basis of CHMP Guideline on the Environmental Risk 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 17/38 
 
  
  
 
Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human Use (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00), a formal 
environmental risk assessment for efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir DS was not considered 
necessary by the Applicant and this is acceptable to the CHMP. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The applicant did not submit any new non-clinical data on efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir 
DS. The literature discussion of the available scientific information on efavirenz, emtricitabine and 
tenofovir DS was considered adequate and made reference to recent and relevant publications. 
The impurities and excipients were discussed and should have no impact on the safety profile of 
efavirenz, emtricitabine and tenofovir DS when used at therapeutic doses in line with the 
approved indications. The non-clinical sections of the SmPC were considered acceptable by the 
CHMP.   
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature with regard to non-clinical data of Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil Krka and justifications that the different salt of the active substance does not differ 
significantly in properties with regards to safety and efficacy of the reference product was 
provided and was accepted by the CHMP. This is in accordance with the relevant guideline and 
additional non clinical studies were considered necessary. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for film-coated tablets containing Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil succinate. To support the marketing authorisation application the applicant conducted 
one bioequivalence study with cross-over design under fasting conditions. This study was the 
pivotal study for the assessment. 
No CHMP scientific advice pertinent to the clinical development was given for this medicinal 
product.  
For the clinical assessment the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) in its current version, is of particular relevance.  
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Exemption  
This is a generic application for only one strength; hence a biowaiver is not applicable.   
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study.  
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 18/38 
 
  
  
 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Study KRS-P7-060 (Sponsor Project No 16-520): Single Dose Crossover Comparative 
Bioavailability Study of Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir Disoproxil 600 mg/200 mg/245 mg 
Film-Coated Tablets in Healthy Male Volunteers / Fasting State. 
Methods 
Study design  
This was a randomised, laboratory blinded, two-way, two- period, two-sequence, single centre, 
balanced, single dose, crossover comparative oral bioavailability study to establish comparative 
bioequivalence of Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 600mg/200mg/245mg film coated tablets 
(test manufactured by Krka Slovenia) and Atripla 600mg/200mg/245mg film coated tablets 
(MAH: Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead Sciences Intl. Ltd. Ireland) in 36 healthy, adult male 
human subjects under fasting conditions. The objective of the study was to compare the rate and 
extent of absorption of both products and to monitor the adverse events to ensure the safety of 
the subjects.  
The study centre was outside EU. The study was conducted between 16 January 2017 and 04 
March 2017 and bioanalysis was performed between 27 February 2017 and 17 March 2017. 
based on the randomisation schedule and following overnight fast of at least 10 hours subjects 
received single dose of the assigned formulation with approximately 240 mL of still bottled water 
at room temperature,. Subjects were allowed to leave the clinical site after the 24-hour post dose 
blood draw and were asked to return to the clinical site before each of the 3 remaining blood 
samples. 
Blood samples were taken at the following time points: pre-dose and at 0.25, 0.50, 0.75, 1.00, 
1.33, 1.67, 2.00, 2.50, 3.00, 3.50, 4.00, 4.50, 5.00, 5.50, 6.00, 8.00, 10.00, 12.00, 24.00, 
36.00, 48.00, and 72.00 hours after dosing. Blood sampling time adjustments are presented in 
the dossier. The two periods were separated by a wash-out phase of at least 35 days.  
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 19/38 
 
  
  
 
 
Test and reference products  
Table 1.  Test and reference product information 
Product 
Characteristics 
Name 
Strength 
Dosage form 
Manufacturer 
Batch number 
Test 
Product 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/ 
Tenofovir disoproxil  600 mg/200 
mg/245 mg film-coated tablets 
(tenofovir disoproxil equivalent to 
301 mg of tenofovir disoproxil 
succinate or 136 mg of tenofovir) 
600 mg/200 mg/245 mg 
Film-coated tablet 
Krka d. d., Novo mesto, Slovenia, 
EU 
R42296 
Expiry date (Retest date) 
February 2017 (re-test date) 
Reference 
Product 
Atripla® 600 mg/200 mg/245 mg 
film-coated tablets 
(efavirenz/emtricitabine/ 
tenofovir disoproxil, with 
tenofovir disoproxil equivalent to 
300 mg of tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate or 136 mg of tenofovir) 
600 mg/200 mg/245 mg 
Film-coated tablet 
Gilead Sciences Limited, Ireland, 
EU 
PVPYD 
Packaging Batch No.: PVPYD-P 
August 2018 
March 2017 (re-test date) 
N/AV = Not available 
Population studied 
36 healthy adult male human subjects were enrolled as per the protocol whilst 35 subjects 
completed both study periods.  
Main inclusion criteria: 
Subjects were male, at least 18 years of age but not older than 55 years. The main inclusion 
criteria were: 
•  Non- or ex-smokers 
•  body mass index (BMI) within 18.5 kg/m2 to 30.0 kg/m2, inclusively 
•  No clinically significant abnormality found in the 12-lead ECG performed at study entry 
•  healthy according to medical history, complete physical examination (including vital signs) 
and laboratory tests (general biochemistry, haematology and urinalysis), including 
negative Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C tests as well 
as negative screening of alcohol, cotinine and drugs of abuse. 
•  Mental status was scored using the Major Depression Inventory (MDI) questionnaire 
Analytical methods 
Analysis of emtricitabine and tenofovir was performed using test method BMR-1601. 
This HPLC/MS/MS method involved the extraction of efavirenz, emtricitabine, tenofovir and the 
respective internal standards from human plasma.  
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 20/38 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Storage period of study samples  
Blood samples were collected in K2 EDTA Vacutainers. As soon as possible following blood 
collection, samples were centrifuged at a temperature of 4°C nominal and at approximately 1500g 
for 10 minutes. The plasma obtained was separated into duplicate polypropylene culture tubes, 
when feasible. The tubes were labelled with a code number that did not reveal formulation identity. 
The samples were frozen in an upright position and retained in the clinic's freezers at a 
temperature of -20°C nominal until sent on dry ice to the bioanalytical facility for assay. The time 
from blood sample collection to plasma aliquot storage should have been within 90 minutes. 
Dosing started on the 16 January 2017 and the bioanalysis was performed between 27 February to 
16 March 2017 (59 days of storage). 
The long-term stability of Efavirenz, Emtricitabine and Tenofovir in human plasma was adequately 
covered.  
1692 samples were expected according to the protocol however 1655 blood samples were received 
(37 missing samples). The missing samples are accounted for in the dossier.  
Bioanalytical report 
The bioanalytical report as well as the method SOPs were provided by the Applicant and considered 
adequate by the CHMP.  
Pharmacokinetic variables 
For efavirenz 
Primary parameters: Cmax and  AUC0-72,  
For emtricitabine and tenofovir 
Primary parameters: Cmax and  AUC0-t,  
Secondary parameters: AUC0-∞, Tmax, residual area, λZ and T1/2. 
Bioequivalence criteria: The 90% confidence intervals of the relative mean AUC 0-t ,AUC0-T 
(AUC0-72 for efavirenz) and Cmax of the test and reference product should be at least 80.00% 
and not more than 125.00% for log-transformed data. 
Statistical methods 
The main absorption and disposition parameters were calculated using a non-compartmental 
approach with a log-linear terminal phase assumption. The trapezoidal rule was used to estimate 
area under the curve. For emtricitabine and tenofovir, the terminal phase estimation was based 
on maximizing the coefficient of determination. 
For efavirenz, the main pharmacokinetic parameters of interest for this study were Cmax and 
AUC0-72. Tmax was calculated and provided for information purposes only. 
For emtricitabine and tenofovir, the main pharmacokinetic parameters of interest for this study 
were Cmax and AUC0-T. Other parameters such as Tmax, AUC0-∞, residual area, λZ and Thalf 
were provided for information purposes only. 
The statistical analysis was based on a parametric ANOVA model of the pharmacokinetic 
parameters; the two-sided 90% confidence interval of the ratio of geometric means for the Cmax, 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 21/38 
 
  
  
 
AUC0-T (AUC0-72 for efavirenz) and AUC0-∞ was based on ln-transformed data; the parameter 
Tmax was analyzed using a non-parametric approach. 
ANOVA model: 
Fixed factors: sequence, period, treatment, subject (nested within sequence). 
Criteria for Bioequivalence: 
Statistical inference of efavirenz was based on a bioequivalence approach using the following 
standards: 
- The ratio of geometric LS means with corresponding 90% confidence interval calculated from 
the exponential of the difference between the Test and Reference product for the ln-transformed 
parameters Cmax and AUC0-72 were all to be within the 80.00 to 125.00% bioequivalence range. 
Statistical inference of emtricitabine and tenofovir was based on a bioequivalence approach using 
the following standards: 
- The ratio of geometric LS means with corresponding 90% confidence interval calculated from 
the exponential of the difference between the Test and Reference product for the ln-transformed 
parameters Cmax and AUC0-t were all to be within the 80.00 to 125.00% bioequivalence range. 
Safety:  
Descriptive statistics was applied. 
Results 
Table 2.  Pharmacokinetic parameters for Efavirenz 600mg n=35 (non-transformed values) 
Table 3.  Pharmacokinetic parameters for Emtricitabine 200mg n=35 (non-transformed values) 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 22/38 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Table 4.  Pharmacokinetic parameters for Tenofovir 245mg n=35 (non-transformed values) 
Table 5.  Statistical analysis for Efavirenz 600mg n=35 (ln-transformed values) 
Table 6.  Statistical analysis for Emtricitabine 200mg n=35 (ln-transformed values) 
Table 7.  Statistical analysis for Tenofovir 245mg n=35 (ln-transformed values) 
Safety data 
A total of 36 subjects entered the study, all of them (36 subjects) received the Reference (Atripla 
600mg/200 mg/245 mg film-coated tablets) and 35 subjects (97%) received the Test 
(Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 600 mg/200 mg/245 mg film-coated tablets). 
No serious adverse events (SAE) and no deaths were reported for any of the subjects enrolled in 
this study. No subject was withdrawn by the investigator for safety reasons. 
A total of 58 AEs were reported by 18 (50%) of the 36 subjects who participated in this study. 
Most of the AEs were considered related to drug administration (49/58; 85%). Eighteen different 
study drug related adverse events were noted in this study all known as undesirable effects of 
efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir and therefore all judged as reasonably possibly related to study 
drug, i.e. dizziness, headache, somnolence, nausea, vomiting, dry mouth, stomach pain, pain in 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 23/38 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
legs, abnormal dreams, anxiety, feels weak, vertigo, feels stoned, hiccups, feeling of food stuck in 
the oesophagus, decreased concentration, fatigue and hot flash occurring with various frequency. 
After 71 administrations of study medicines to 36 subjects (one subject received only Reference 
product), 49 cases of drug related post dose AE were reported. Most frequently reported AE was 
dizziness which occurred in 6 subjects after administration of Test and 5 subjects after 
administration of the Reference. Other AEs were reported with lesser frequency, appearing after 
administration of test as well as reference product. 
The severity of 6 AEs was graded as “moderate” (vomiting – 2, headache-1, nausea-2, dizziness-
1), whereas all other 43 AEs that were reported were graded as “mild”. All reported AEs were 
resolved or resolving by the end of the study. 
All the abnormal clinical laboratory values were marginally higher or lower than their reference 
ranges and none were considered clinically significant by the investigator. Furthermore, there 
were no clinically significant abnormalities in the vital signs of the subjects in this study. All 
physical examinations performed during the study were considered normal or without any 
changes. 
No new safety concerns were raised during the conduct of the study. 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study the test formulation 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 600mg/200mg/245mg film coated tablets of Krka d.d. Slovenia 
was considered bioequivalent with the reference Atripla 600mg/200mg/245mg film coated tablets 
manufactured by Gilead Sciences Intl. Ltd. Ireland MA holder: Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead 
Science Limited, Ireland EU.  
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application. Dissolution studies have been presented to support the dosage form. 
2.4.4.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any 
country. 
2.4.5.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The 90% confidence intervals for the ratios of test and reference product (least-squares means) 
derived from the analysis of log transformed pharmacokinetic parameters  AUC0-t and Cmax were 
within 80-125% acceptance range for Emtricitabine and Tenofovir. 
The 90% confidence intervals for the ratios of test and reference product (least-squares means) 
derived from the analysis of log transformed pharmacokinetic parameters  AUC0-72 and Cmax were 
within 80-125% acceptance range for Efavirenz. 
This is in line with the requirements of the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev 01/Corr **. 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 24/38 
 
  
  
 
The two treatments were well tolerated by the subjects (in both periods) enrolled in the study. 
The adverse events mentioned above are all included in the SmPC and there are no new safety 
concerns arising from this study. The two products had similar safety profiles. 
2.4.6.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study the test formulation 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 600mg/200mg/245mg film coated tablets of Krka d.d. Slovenia 
is considered bioequivalent with the reference Atripla 600mg/200mg/245mg film coated tablets 
manufactured by Gilead Sciences Intl. Ltd. Ireland MA holder: Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead 
Science Limited, Ireland EU.  
A summary of the literature with regard to clinical data of Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil Krka and justifications that the different salt of the active substance does not differ 
significantly in properties with regards to safety and efficacy of the reference product was 
provided and was accepted by the CHMP. This is in accordance with the relevant guideline and 
additional clinical studies were not considered necessary. 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 25/38 
 
  
  
 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns  
Important identified risks: 
High-grade hepatic enzyme elevation and severe hepatic events 
Neural tube developmental abnormalities 
Psychiatric and nervous system symptoms 
Skin rashes and severe skin reactions 
Alteration in efavirenz blood levels and CYP2B6 genetic 
polymorphisms 
Post-treatment hepatic flares in HIV -1/HBV coinfected patients 
Renal toxicity 
Bone events due to proximal renal tubulopathy/loss of BMD 
Interaction with didanosine 
Pancreatitis 
Important potential risks: 
Lack of efficacy 
Overdose (occurring through accidental concurrent use of ATR 
with any of its active components) 
Urolithiasis/nephrolithiasis 
Malignant neoplasms 
Missing information: 
Safety in patients with hepatic impairment 
Safety in children(< 3 months old for efavirenz, including long-
term safety forTdisoproxil) 
Safety in elderly patients 
Safety in pregnancy 
Safety in lactation 
Safety in patients with renal impairment 
Pharmacovigilance plan  
Routine  pharmacovigilance  activities  are  sufficient  to  identify  and  evaluate  new  information  about 
actual or potential risks.  
Follow-up questionnaires for spontaneous adverse event reports have been implemented correctly  
(Renal toxicity, Renal tubulopathy, Bone events due to proximal renal toxicity/loss of bone mineral 
density, Lack of Efficacy, Increased efavirenz blood levels and CYP2B6 genetic polymorphisms, 
High-grade hepatic enzyme elevation and severe hepatic events, Pregnancy and pregnancy 
outcome forms, Nephrolithiasis). 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 26/38 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
High-grade hepatic  enzyme 
elevation  and  severe  hepatic 
events   
Neural tube developmental 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Content in SmPC:  
Section 4.3 in SmPC: 
• Statement that 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
is contraindicated in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment. 
Section 4.4 in SmPC: 
• Warning that 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
is contraindicated in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment and not recommended 
in patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment. 
• Warning that caution should be exercised 
when the drug is administered to patients 
with mild hepatic impairment and these 
patients should be cafeully monitored for 
efavirenz adverse reactions and laboratory 
tests should be performed at periodic 
intervals to evaluate their liver disease. 
• Statement that patients with pre-existing 
liver dysfunction should be monitored to 
standard practice and that if there is 
evidence of worsening liver disease or 
persistent elevations of serum 
transaminases to >5 times the ULN, 
intenuption or discontinuation of treatment 
must be considered. 
• Advice to monitor the liver enzymes of 
patients treated with other medicinal 
products associated with liver toxicity. 
• Warning that reports of hepatic failure 
have occurred in patients with no pre-
existing hepatic disease or other 
identifiable risk factors and that liver 
enzyme monitoring is advised for all 
patients independent of pre-existing 
hepatic dysfunction or other risk factors. 
• Warning that patients with HlV and 
hepatitis B (HBV) or C virus (HCV) co-
infection and treated with combination 
antiretroviral therapy are at an increased 
risk for severe and potentially fatal hepatic 
adverse reactions. 
Section 4.8 in SmPC: 
• Warning that hepatic failure sometimes 
characterized by a fulminant course has 
been reported post-marketing in patients 
with no pre-existing hepatic disease or 
other identifiable risk factors. 
• The following hepatobiliary disorders: 
ADRs are listed in the tabulated summary 
of adverse reactions for the efavirenz 
component: hepatitis acute, hepatic failure. 
Content in SmPC:  
Additional 
risk 
minimisation 
measures 
None 
proposed 
None 
Page 27/38 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
abnormalities 
Psychiatric and nervous system 
symptoms 
proposed 
None 
proposed 
Section 4.6 in SmPC: 
•Advisory  statement  that pregnancy 
should be avoided  in women receiving 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil . 
•Advisory  statement  that  barrier 
contraception should  always  be used 
in combination  with  other  methods  of 
contraception and due  to the long  half-
life  of efavirenz,  use of adequate 
contraceptive  measures  for  12 weeks 
after  discontinuation of 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil is recommended. 
•Information  on  neural  tube 
defects  seen inchildren  whose 
mothers  were exposed  to 
efavirenz  ontaining  regimens. 
•Statement  that malformations 
have been observed  in foetuses 
from efavirenz-treated monkeys. 
•Statement  that a moderate 
amount  of data  on  pregnant  women 
(between  300-1,000  pregnancy 
outcomes) indicates  oo 
malformations or foetaJJneonatal 
toxicity  associated  with emtricitabine 
and tenofovir  disoproxil. 
Prominent  wording io 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil PIL: 
•Warning  that women  should  not 
get  pregnant  during  treatment with 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil and for  12 weeks 
thereafter. 
•Advice on contraceptive methods. 
•Advice  to tell their doctor 
immediately if they are pregnant  or 
intend  to become  pregnant. 
•Statement  that birth defects  have been 
seen in unborn  animals and in the babies 
of women  treated  with efavirenz. 
Content in SmPC:  
Warning in section 4.4: 
•Waming that psychlatric adverse reactions 
have been reported in patients treated with 
efavirenz and those patients with a history 
of psychiatric disorder appear to be at a 
greater risk of serious psychiatric adverse 
reactions. 
•Statement that patient should contact 
their doctor immediately if they experience 
symptoms such as severe depression, 
psychosis or suicidal ideation to assess if 
the symptoms may be related to efavirenz 
and to determine whether the risk of 
continued therapy outweighs the benefits. 
•Warning that nervous system symptoms 
including, but not limited to, dizziness, 
insomnia, somnolence, impaired 
concentration and abnormal dreaming are 
frequently reported as undesirable effects 
in patients receiving efavirenz in clinical 
trials. 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 28/38 
 
  
  
 
•Statement that dizziness was also seen in 
clinical studies with emtricitabine and 
tenofovir disoproxil and headache has been 
reported in clinical studies with 
erntricitabine. 
Section 4.5 in SmPC: 
•Recommendation that patients receiving 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
concomitantly with ledipasvir/sofosbuvir 
should be monitored for adverse reactions 
associated with tenofovir disoproxil. 
Section 4.8 in SmPC: 
•Statement that patients with a history of 
psychiatric disorder appear to be at greater 
risk of serious psychiatric adverse 
reactions. 
•Statement advising on 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
dosing to minimize nervous system 
disorders. 
•The following psychiatric disorder ADRs 
are listed in the tabulated summary of 
adverse reactions for the efavirenz 
component: depression, anxiety, abnormal 
dreams, insomnia, suicide attempt, suicidal 
ideation, psychosis mania, paranoia, 
hallucination, euphoric mood, affect 
lability, confusional state, aggression, 
completed suicide, delusion, neurosis. 
•The following nervous system disorder 
ADRs are listed in the tabulated summary 
of adverse reactions for the efavirenz 
component: cerebellar coordination and 
balance disturbances, somnolence, 
headache, disturbance in attention, 
dizziness, convulsions, amnesia, thinking 
abnormal, ataxia, coordination abnormal, 
agitation, tremor. 
Content in SmPC:  
Section 4.4 in SmPC: 
•Statements  describing  the 
appearance of  typical  rashes 
associated  with  efavirenz and 
their  management. 
• Warning  that severe  rash  has 
been  reported  in patients  treated 
with efavirenz. 
• Warning  that 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil  is not recommended for 
patients  who have bad a life-
threatening cutaneous reaction  while 
taking an NNRTI (nucleoside reverse 
transcriptase inhibitors). 
Section 4.8 in SmPC: 
•Statements  describing  the 
appearance  of  typical  rashes 
associated  with efavirenz  and 
their  management. 
•The  following  skin  and subcutaneous 
tissue  disorders  ADRs are listed in the 
tabulated summary  of adverse 
reactions  for the efavirenz  component: 
rash, severe  rash, pruritus, Stevens-
Johnson syndrome,  erythema 
None 
proposed 
Skin rashes and severe skin 
reactions (efavirenz) 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 29/38 
 
  
  
 
 
Alteration in  efavirenz  blood 
levels and  CYP2B6 genetic 
polymorphisms 
Post-treatment hepatic  flares 
in HIV-1/HBV  co-infected 
patients 
None 
proposed 
None 
proposed 
multiforme,  photo allergic 
dermatitis. 
Content in SmPC:  
Section 4.2 in SmPC: 
• Statement that patients coinfected with 
HIV and HBV should be closely monitored 
for evidence of exacerbations of hepatitis 
following the discontinuation of 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
. 
Section 4.4 of 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
SmPC: 
• Warning that patients with chronic 
hepatitis B or C treated with antiretroviral 
therapy are at an increased risk for severe 
and potentially fatal hepatic adverse 
reactions. 
• Warning about the risk of exacerbation of 
hepatitis in 
HIV-1/HBV co-infected patients following 
discontinuation of treatment, guidance that 
these patients should be closely 
monitored with both clinical and laboratory 
follow up for at least 
four months after stopping treatment, and 
guidance that, if appropriate, resumption of 
anti-HBV therapy may be warranted. 
• Recommendation that treatment is not 
discontinued in patients with advanced 
liver disease or cirrhosis since post-
treatment exacerbation of hepatitis may 
lead to hepatic decompensation. 
Section 4.8 in SmPC: 
• Statement indicating that discontinuation 
of Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil therapy may be associated with 
acute exacerbations of hepatitis. 
Content in SmPC:  
Section 4.2 in SmPC: 
• Statement that patients co-infected with 
HIV and HBV should be closely monitored 
for evidence of exacerbations of hepatitis 
following the discontinuation of 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil. 
Section 4.4 of 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
SmPC: 
• Warning that patients with chronic 
hepatitis B or C treated with antiretroviral 
therapy are at an increased risk for severe 
and potentially fatal hepatic adverse 
reactions. 
• Warning about the risk of exacerbation of 
hepatitis in 
HIV-1/HBV co-infected patients following 
discontinuation of treatment, guidance that 
these patients should be closely monitored 
with both clinical and laboratory follow up 
for at least four months after stopping 
treatment, and guidance that, if 
appropriate, resumption of anti-HBV 
therapy may be warranted. 
• Recommendation that treatment is not 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 30/38 
 
  
  
 
Renal toxicity 
Educational 
material: 
“Renal 
management 
and dose 
adjustment 
advice for 
healthcare 
professionals 
with adult 
patients 
receiving 
tenofovir 
disoproxil”. 
discontinued in patients with advanced 
liver disease or cirrhosis since post-
treatment exacerbation of hepatitis may 
lead to hepatic decompensation. 
Section 4.8 of 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
SmPC: 
• Statement indicating that discontinuation 
of Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil therapy may be associated with 
acute exacerbations of hepatitis. 
Content in SmPC:  
Section 4.2 in SmPC: 
• Statement indicating that 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
is not recommended for patients with 
moderate or severe renal impairment 
(C r<SO rnUmin) as the appropriate dose 
adjustment of emtricitabine 
and tenofovir disoproxil cannot be achieved 
with the combination tablet. 
Section 4.4 in SmPC: 
• Warning that 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
is not recommended for patients with 
moderate or severe renal impairment (CI-a 
<50 mL/min) as the appropriate dose 
adjustment of emtricitabine and tenofovir 
disoproxil cannot be achieved with the 
combination tablet. 
• Warning that the use of 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
should be avoided with concurrent or 
recent use of a nephrotoxic medicinal 
product. If concomitant use is unavoidable, 
renal function must be monitored weekly. 
• Warning statement that cases of acute 
renal failure after initiation of high dose or 
multiple non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs (NSAIDs) have been reported in 
patients treated with tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate and with risk factors for renal 
dysfunction. If l 
efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
is co-administered with an NSAID, renal 
function should be monitored adequately. 
• Recommendation that baseline creatinine 
clearance is calculated in patients prior to 
initiating therapy and for renal function to 
be monitored after two to four weeks, after 
three months of treatment and every three 
to six months thereafter in patients without 
renal risk factors. Patients with a history of 
renal dysfunction or in patients who are at 
risk of renal dysfunction require a more 
frequent monitoring of renal function. 
Warning statement that renal function 
should be re-evaluated within a week 
should serum phosphate decrease <1.5 
mg/dL, or creatinine clearance decrease to 
<50 mL/mio in any patient receiving 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
. If confirmed creatinine clearance < 50 
mVmin or decreases in serum phosphate 
to< 1.0 mg/dl (0.32 nunovt), or if there is 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 31/38 
 
  
  
 
 
a progressive decline in renal function 
when no other cause has been identified, 
treatment with 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
must be interrupted 
Section 4.5 in 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
SmPC: 
• An interaction statement that 
emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil are 
primarily eliminated by the kidneys and 
therefore co-administration of 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
with medicinal products that reduce renal 
function or compete for active tubular 
secretion may increase serum 
concentrations of emtricitabine/tenofovir 
disoproxil and/or the co-administered 
products. 
• Recommendation that the use of 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
should be avoided with concurrent or 
recent use of nephrotoxic medications. 
• Recommendation that patients receiving 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
concomitantly with ledipasvir/sofosbuvir 
should be monitored for adverse reactions 
associated with tenofovir. 
Section 4.8 in SmPC: 
• Statement to indicate that rare events of 
renal impairment, renal failure and 
proximal renal tubulopathy including 
Fanconi syndrome sometimes leading to 
bone abnormalities have been reported. 
• Statement recommending that renal 
function is monitored for patients receiving 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
as Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil may cause renal damage. 
• The following ADRs are listed in the 
tabulated summary of adverse reactions: 
increased creatinine, proteinuria, renal 
failure (acute and chronic), acute tubular 
necrosis, proximal renal tubulopathy 
including Fanconi syndrome, nephritis, 
(including interstitial nephritis) and 
nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. 
Content in SmPC:  
Section 4.4 in SmPC: 
• Statement that in HIV infected patients 
from a 144-week controlled clinical study 
that compared tenofovir disoproxil with 
stavudine in combination with lamivudine 
and efavirenz in antiretroviral-naive 
lpatients, small decreases in bone mineral 
density of the hip and spine were observed 
in both treatment groups. Decreases in 
bone mineral density of spine and changes 
in bone biomarkers from baseline were 
significantly greater in the TOP treatment 
group at 144 weeks. Decreases in bone 
mineral density of hip were significantly 
greater in this group until 96 weeks. 
However, there was no increased risk of 
fractures or evidence for clinically relevant 
None 
proposed 
Bone events  due  to  proximal 
renal  tubulopathy/loss of BMD 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 32/38 
 
  
  
 
bone abnormalities over 144 weeks. 
• Warning that bone abnormalities 
(infrequently contributing to fractures) may 
be associated with proximal renal 
tubulopathy and that if bone abnormalities 
are suspected then appropriate 
consultation should be obtained. 
Section 4.8 in SmPC: 
• Statement to indicate that rare events of 
renal impairment, renal failure and 
proximal renal tubulopathy including 
Fanconi syndrome sometimes leading to 
bone abnormalities have been reported 
• Osteomalacia (manifested as bone pain 
and infrequently contn'buting to fractures) 
is included as an ADR with tenofovir 
disoproxil in the tabulated summary of 
adverse reactions. 
Content in SmPC:  
Section 4.4 in SmPC: 
• Warning that that the coadministration of 
tenofovir disoproxil and didanosine is not 
recommended since exposure to 
didanosine is significantly increased 
following coadministration with tenofovir 
disoproxil that may 
increase the risk of didanosine-related 
adverse reactions. 
Section 4.5 in SmPC: 
• Warning that the coadministration of 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
and didanosine is not recommended. 
Section 4.8 in SmPC: 
• Statement that coadministration of 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
and didanosine is not recommended as it 
results in an increase in systemic exposure 
to didanosine that may increase the risk of 
didanosine-related ADRs. 
Content in SmPC:  
Section 4.4 and 4.5 in SmPC: 
• Warning statement regarding the risk of 
pancreatitis associated with the interaction 
between tenofovir disoproxil and 
didanosine. 
Section 4.8 of the 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
SmPC: 
• Waming that rarely pancreatitis has been 
reported with coadministration of 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
and didanosine. 
• Pancreatitis is included as an ADR with 
tenofovir disoproxil in the tabulated 
summary of adverse reactions. 
Content in SmPC:  
Section 4.4 in SmPC: 
• Warning that current data indicate a 
trend that in patients on a PI-based 
antiretroviral regimen the switch to 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
may lead to a reduction of the response to 
therapy and these patients should be 
carefully monitored for viral load. 
Content in SmPC:  
None 
proposed 
None 
proposed 
None 
proposed 
None 
Page 33/38 
Interaction with didanosine 
Pancreatitis 
Lack of efficacy 
Overdose (occurring through 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
 
  
  
 
accidental concurrent use of ATR 
with any of its active 
components) 
Urolithiasis/nephrolithiasis 
Section 4.4 in SmPC: 
• Warning that 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
should not be coadministered with other 
medicinal products containing any of the 
same active components. 
None  currently  proposed 
Malignant  Neoplasms 
None currently  proposed 
Safety In patients with  hepatic 
impairment 
Safety  in children (including 
long-term safety) 
Safety in elderly patients 
Safety in  pregnancy 
Safety in lactation 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Content in SmPC:  
Sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8 in SmPC: 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
is contraindicated in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment and not recommended 
in patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment. 
Since efavirenz is principally metabolised 
by the CYP system, caution should be 
exercised in administering 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
to patients with mild hepatic impairment. 
Content in SmPC:  
Section 4.2 in SmPC: 
Statement indicating that the safety and 
efficacy of 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
in children under the age of 18 years have 
not been established. 
Section 4.8 in SmPC: 
Statement that insufficient safety data are 
available for children under the age of 18 
years and therefore the 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
is not recommended in this population. 
Content in SmPC:  
Section 4.2 in Sm.PC: 
• Warning that 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
should be administered with caution to 
elderly patients. 
Sections 4.4 and 4.8. in SmPC: 
• Statement indicating that 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
has not been studied in elderly patients(> 
65 years). 
• Statement that, as elderly patients are 
more likely to have decreased renal 
function, therefore caution should be 
exercised when treating elderly patients 
with Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil. 
Content in SmPC:  
Section 4.6 in SmPC: 
There have been seven retrospective 
reports of findings consistent with neural 
tube defects, including meningomyelocele, 
all in mothers exposed to efavirenz-
containing regimens (excluding any 
efavirenz-containing fixed-dose 
combination tablets) in the first trimester. 
Content in SmPC:  
Section 4.6 in SmPC: 
Statement that 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
proposed 
None 
proposed 
None 
proposed 
None 
proposed 
None 
proposed 
None 
proposed 
None 
proposed 
None 
proposed 
Page 34/38 
 
  
  
 
Safety in  patients with  renal 
impairment 
should not be used during breast-feeding. 
Statement indicating that emtricitabine and 
tenofovir have been shown 
to be excreted in human milk but there is 
insufficient information on their effects in 
newborns/infants. Statement that efavirenz 
has been shown to be excreted in milk in 
rats 
at concentrations much higher than those 
in maternal plasma.  
Recommendation that in order to avoid 
transmission of HIV to the infant, HIV 
infected women, do not breast-feed. 
Content in SmPC:  
Section 4.2 in SmPC: 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
is not recommended for patients with 
moderate or severe renal impairment 
(creatinine clearance (CrCl) < 50 ml/min). 
Patients with moderate or severe renal 
impairment require dose interval 
adjustment of emtricitabine and tenofovir 
disoproxil that cannot be achieved with the 
combination tablet. 
None 
proposed 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.2 is acceptable. 
2.6.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant 
fulfils the requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are 
set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-
portal. 
2.7.  Product information 
2.7.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted 
by the applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the 
Guideline on the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human 
use. 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 35/38 
 
  
  
 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of Efavirenz+Emtricitabine+Tenofovir Disoproxil 
succinate film-coated tablets. The reference product Atripla is indicated for treatment of HIV 
infection. No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate 
summary of the available nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and 
considered sufficient. From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on 
the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active 
substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical aspects based on information from 
published literature was considered sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with a randomised, laboratory blinded, two-
way, two- period, two-sequence, single centre, balanced, single dose, crossover design. The 
study design was considered adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of this formulation and 
was in line with the respective European requirements. The analytical method was validated. 
Pharmacokinetic and statistical methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of Efavirenz+Emtricitabine+Tenofovir Disoproxil (as succinate) 
600/200/245 mg film coated tablets met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when 
compared with Atripla. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the 
parameters AUC0-t,, AUC0-∞, and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance 
range of 80.00 to 125.00%. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by 
consensus that the benefit-risk balance of Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka is 
favourable in the following indication: 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka is a fixed-dose combination of efavirenz, 
emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil. It is indicated for the treatment of human 
immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection in adults aged 18 years and over with virologic 
suppression to HIV-1 RNA levels of < 50 copies/ml on their current combination antiretroviral 
therapy for more than three months. Patients must not have experienced virological failure on 
any prior antiretroviral therapy and must be known not to have harboured virus strains with 
mutations conferring significant resistance to any of the three components contained in 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka prior to initiation of their first antiretroviral 
treatment regimen. 
The demonstration of the benefit of efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil is primarily 
based on 48-week data from a clinical study in which patients with stable virologic suppression 
on a combination antiretroviral therapy changed to efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil. 
No data are currently available from clinical studies with efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir 
disoproxil in treatment-naïve or in heavily pretreated patients. 
No data are available to support the combination of efavirenz/emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil 
and other antiretroviral agents. 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the 
following conditions: 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 36/38 
 
  
  
 
 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are 
set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-
portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of 
the medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in 
the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed 
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile 
or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
Additional risk minimisation measures 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) shall ensure that all physicians who are expected to 
prescribe/use Efavirenz/Emtricitabine /tenofovir disoproxil Krka are provided with a physician 
educational pack containing the following:  
•  The Summary of Product Characteristics  
•  HIV renal educational brochure, including the creatinine clearance slide ruler  
The HIV renal educational brochure should contain the following key messages:  
•  That there is an increased risk of renal disease in HIV infected patients associated with 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate-containing products such as Efavirenz/Emtricitabine 
/tenofovir disoproxil Krka  
•  Efavirenz/Emtricitabine /tenofovir disoproxil Krka is not recommended for patients with 
moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 50 ml/min)  
•  That use of Efavirenz/Emtricitabine /tenofovir disoproxil Krka should be avoided with 
concomitant or recent use of nephrotoxic medicinal products. If Efavirenz/Emtricitabine 
/tenofovir disoproxil Krka is used with nephrotoxic medicinal products, renal function 
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 37/38 
 
  
  
 
should be closely monitored according to the recommended schedule.  
•  That patients should have their baseline renal function assessed prior to initiating 
Efavirenz/Emtricitabine /tenofovir disoproxil Krka therapy 
•  The importance of regular monitoring of renal function during Efavirenz/Emtricitabine 
/tenofovir disoproxil Krka therapy 
•  Recommended schedule for monitoring renal function considering the presence or absence 
of additional risk factors for renal impairment 
•  If serum phosphate is < 1.5 mg/dl or creatinine clearance decreases during therapy to < 
50 ml/min then renal function must be re-evaluated within one week. If creatinine 
clearance is confirmed as < 50 ml/min or serum phosphate decreases to < 1.0 mg/dl 
then Efavirenz/Emtricitabine /tenofovir disoproxil Krka therapy should be interrupted. 
Interrupting treatment with Efavirenz/Emtricitabine /tenofovir disoproxil Krka should also 
be considered in case of progressive decline of renal function when no other cause has 
been identified. 
•  Instructions on the use of the creatinine clearance slide ruler 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of 
the medicinal product to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
These conditions fully reflect the advice received from the PRAC.  
Assessment report  
EMA/846772/2017 
Page 38/38 
 
  
  
 
