BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1. 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Cephalon  Europe  submitted  on  21  February  2007  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Effentora,  through  the  centralised 
procedure  under  Article  3  (2)  b  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004.  The  eligibility  to  the  centralised 
procedure  was  agreed  upon  by  the  EMEA/CHMP  on  1  June  2006.  The  eligibility  to  the  centralised 
procedure  under  Article  3(2)(b)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004  was  based  on  demonstration  of  
interest of patients at Community level. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / Known active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application. 
Licensing status: 
Effentora has been given a Marketing Authorisation in the United States of America. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur:   Karl Broich 
Co-Rapporteur: 
Eva Skovlund 
2. 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 21 February 2007. 
The procedure started on 21 March 2007.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 6 June 2007. 
The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 8 June 
2007  .  In  accordance  with  Article  6(3)  of  Regulation  (RC)  No  726/2004,  the  Rapporteur  and 
Co-Rapporteur declared that they had completed their assessment report in less than 80 days.   
During the meeting on 10-12 July, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be 
sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on  
12 July 2007. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on  
3 October 2007. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 22 November 2007. 
During the CHMP meeting on 10-13 December 2007, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing. 
During the meeting on 21-24 January 2007, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing Authorisation to Effentora on 24 January 2007. The applicant provided the letter of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 17 January 2008. 
1/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1.1  
Introduction 
Effentora is a fentanyl buccal tablet (FEBT) which is indicated for the management of breakthrough 
pain (BTB), recurrent episodes of acute transitory pain, in patients who are already receiving 
maintenance opioid therapy for chronic cancer pain. 
BTP is a transitory exacerbation of pain that occurs on a background of otherwise controlled persistent 
pain and the adequate treatment is a significant clinical problem. BTP is usually severe, reaching peak 
intensity within a few minutes, and has a variable duration with an average of about 30 minutes.. The 
ability to achieve a rapid analgesic effect in this case is essential. Treatment should be part of an 
overall pain management programme and medication to manage BTP should be titrated individually. 
Opioids are usually administered both for background medication and for BTP management. BTP are 
usually treated with short-acting or normal-release opioid analgesics. It has been shown that Fentanyl 
is suited for the management of BTP. Oral transmucosal fentanyl citrate (OTFC) is currently the only 
opioid analgesic approved in the United States (US) and some European countries specifically for BTP 
in patients with cancer who are receiving around-the clock (ATC) opioid therapy for background pain. 
FEBT has been developed using proprietary technology for efficient and rapid delivery of fentanyl. 
The tablet is designed for placement and retention within the oral cavity, between the gum and the 
inside of the cheek. Disintegration is expected to provide improved absorption compared with the 
currently available transmucosal formulation of fentanyl. 
The prevalence of BTP is high, with 64% to 89% of patients with chronic cancer pain experiencing 
such events, and the median number of episodes is 4 per day. The occurrence of between 40% and 
50% of episodes is unpredictable. 
Fentanyl citrate is a potent opioid analgesic (ATC N02AB). Fentanyl, a pure opioid agonist, acts 
primarily through interaction with µ receptors located in the brain, spinal cord, and smooth muscle to 
produce its pharmacologic effect. Its analgesic potency is approximately 80 times that of morphine. 
The primary site of therapeutic action is the central nervous system (CNS). Fentanyl is a widely 
approved medicinal active substance with well known pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and 
toxicological properties, available since 1960s in different formulations, including subcutaneous, 
intravenous, transdermal and transmucosal dosage forms. 
Fentanyl buccal tablet (FEBT) 100, 200, 400, 600 and 800 μg is a novel formulation, designed to 
facilitate rapid delivery and enhanced absorption of fentanyl via the oral mucosa, resulting in 
accelerated rapid analgesic effect. FEBT technology is based on the idea that transient pH changes 
may optimize dissolution and absorption of the substance through the oral mucosa. 
FEBT indication is proposed for the management of breakthrough pain (BTP), recurrent episodes of 
acute transitory pain, in patients who are already receiving maintenance opioid therapy for chronic 
cancer pain.  
Effentora is individually titrated and to a so called “successful dose” that provides adequate analgesia 
and minimises undesirable effects. This titration process is described in detail in the SPC. 
The excipients contained in FEBT are well known and covered by Ph.Eur monographs. 
2/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2   Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Cephalon Europe has applied for a marketing authorisation through the centralised procedure for 
Effentora  (fentanyl citrate) 100 μg, 200 μg, 400 μg, 600 μg and 800 μg buccal tablets. 
The tablets are designed to disperse and release the active substance in the buccal cavity to ensure 
rapid onset of action. 
Active Substance  
Fentanyl is a synthetic opioid analgesic, belonging to the piperidine derivatives, and it is chemically 
related to pethidine. 
Fentanyl citrate is a white to almost white powder, soluble in water, freely soluble in methanol and 
sparingly soluble in alcohol.  
•  Manufacture 
Fentanyl citrate is an established active substance and the quality of the active substance has been 
granted a certificate of suitability (CEP).   
Fentanyl citrate is milled prior to its further use in the manufacturing process of the finished product.  
All known impurities are limited by the respective Ph. Eur. monograph. Any other impurities are 
limited to not more than 0.1%.    
•  Specification 
Fentanyl citrate is a compendial substance. For compendial analytical methods no additional 
validation data is deemed to be necessary. 
A laser scattering method is used for the measurement of fentanyl citrate particles. The method is 
validated. 
•  Stability 
In the CEP, type III amber glass or polyethylene bag inside a HDPE drum is mentioned as primary 
packaging material for the active substance.  
A re-test period of 3 years is stated if stored in the above mentioned container materials. 
Medicinal Product  
The product is a buccal tablet of five different strengths. The product is packed in aluminium/PVC foil 
blisters. The 200 µg – 800 µg strengths can be distinguished from each other by debossed numbers on 
one of the tablet’s faces. The 100µg strength is different in size. 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The buccal tablets are designed for transmucosal administration. A major advantage of the buccal 
route is the avoidance of first-pass metabolism. The application site and the fast disintegration of the 
tablets, partly due to the effervescent components of the formulation, lead to a rapid and increased 
permeation of the active substance through the mucosal barrier.      
All excipients have been widely used in commercial pharmaceutical dosage forms. All excipients are 
covered by Ph Eur Monographs. 
The formulation development is based on three different formulations, starting from a small scale 
proof of concept formulation with unmilled active substance, over formulations with an optimized 
blending process to a formulation where finally compatibility of all excipients has been proved. 
Except for the inclusion of colorants and slightly deviating amounts of a filler the later developed 
formulations have been identical to the commercial formulation. 
3/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fentora buccal tablets are packaged in moisture-resistant aluminium/PVC foil blister packs. 
Moisture resistance of the packaging material is crucial for this type of tablet. Permeation tests 
confirm that the blister material is acting as barrier against water vapour, oxygen and carbon 
dioxide. “Shipping studies” were initiated and the results showed that the blister material 
sufficiently protects the tablets against physical damage under defined shipping conditions.      
•  Adventitious Agents 
None of the ingredients used in the manufacture or in the composition is of human or animal origin. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacture of the drug product is performed at two different manufacturing sites. 
The manufacturing process basically involves standard mixing and compression techniques. The 
description of the manufacturing process is sufficient.  
Critical steps in the manufacture were identified and adequate in-process controls were 
established. Two separate process validation studies on a commercial batch scale have been 
performed, one for coloured tablets and the other for the non-coloured tablets as finally 
proposed for commercial use. The results of the validation data support the quality and 
reproducibility of the process.  
All of the excipients are well known and commonly used in the manufacture of pharmaceutical 
products and meet Ph. Eur. compendial standards. No additional controls are required. None of the 
excipients is novel or of human or animal origin.  
Representative Certificates of Analysis for all excipients were provided. 
The packaging is manufactured from two laminate components. Individual tablets are placed in blister 
cells, cold formed from a laminate consisting of aluminium foil and polyvinylchloride films 
(PVC/Polyamide/Al-foil/PVC). This laminate is then sealed to a second laminate of paper/polyester/ 
aluminium foil with heat-seal coating lacquer (paper/PET/Al-foil/HSC).  
•  Product Specification 
The specification for batch release includes tests for appearance, identification and assay of 
fentanyl, content uniformity, disintegration, fentanyl related substances, hardness, loss on 
drying, and microbialogical quality. The related substances limits of the release and shelf 
specifications are within the limits set in the ICH-guideline Q3.  
The analytical procedures and test methods have been adequately described. The description of the 
method development is comprehensive. The validation was performed in accordance to the ICH Q2 
after selectivity had been successfully shown.  
The results of 35 batches covering all dosage strengths and manufacturing sites were provided. The 
batches are covering the entire production scale range. The batches have been manufactured on 
equipment identical to the one used for routine production. All tablets are packaged in the same 
container closure proposed for the commercial product.  
•  Stability of the Product 
Batch analysis results from 28 batches covering all dosing strengths and manufacturing sites are 
presented. The data demonstrates good compliance with the release specification.  
The stability results presented for Effentora buccal tablets consist of results from 26 batches, 
production scale size, stored under long-term (25 C/60% RH) and accelerated (40°C/75% RH) 
conditions. These batches were tested for the following stability indicating parameters: 
appearance, disintegration, fentanyl content, related substances, hardness, loss on drying, and 
microbiological quality. The results from long-term and accelerated stability testing demonstrate 
only a slight degree of decomposition. Photostability of the packaged product has been proven.  
The buccal tablets were packaged in the container closure system proposed for marketing.  
Stability data support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
4/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due to the effervescent properties of the buccal tablets moisture resistance is a crucial quality 
requirement of the packaging material. Extensive permeation test data confirm that the blister material 
is acting as barrier against water vapour, oxygen and carbon dioxide. The suitability of the selected 
packaging material has further been verified by the results of the accelerated and long term stability 
studies. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Generally, satisfactory documentation has been provided. The active substance is of compendial 
quality. 
Regarding the finished product, the manufacturing process is adequately described and controlled.  
It should ensure a consistent quality for the product.  
1.3   Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The submission contains a comprehensive literature overview of the non-clinical safety profile of 
fentanyl concerning non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology. In addition, the 
dossier contains non-clinical studies which were originally performed for the authorisation of another 
oral transmucosal fentanyl (OTFC) product that is marketed in the EU. Further safety pharmacology 
and toxicological studies conducted in direct support of the current procedure have also been 
submitted. 
As the pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of fentanyl are well known, 
the main toxicological concerns the potential additional toxicity within this product is whether FEBT 
administration enhances toxicity, due to increased systemic exposure, or causes local toxic effects. 
Most of the bibliographical data are based on studies performed up to 30 years ago, and are generally 
not GLP-compliant. Of the submitted original studies, studies on safety pharmacology and 
genotoxicity are in accordance with GLP, whereas the pharmacokinetic studies are not GLP-
compliant. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Fentanyl is a selective opioid agonist interacting primarily at µ opioid receptors located within the 
central nervous system. Fentanyl possesses analgesic activity with a potency 80-fold higher than 
morphine, but with shorter duration of action as well as sedative effects. The formulation of Effentora 
is not expected to affect the well known pharmacodynamic properties of fentanyl. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics and Safety pharmacology programme 
The applicant has submitted original core safety pharmacology studies on cardiovascular, respiratory 
and central nervous system in rats and telemetered dogs. In addition, the applicant has provided a 
review of published literature regarding fentanyl-related effects on cardiovascular, cerebrovascular, 
respiratory, hepatic, renal and endocrine systems. 
Cardiovascular system 
A cardiovascular safety evaluation study was performed to evaluate the potential effects of fentanyl 
citrate on arterial blood pressure, heart rate an electrocardiography, including the appropriate intervals, 
following subcutaneous dosing at doses of 0 (vehicle), 0.001, 0.01, or 0.05 mg/kg in conscious 
unrestrained beagle dogs. Measurements of arterial blood pressure, heart rate or lead II ECG 
parameters were determined continuously from 30 minutes prior to until 6 hours following 
administration 
5/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At 0.001 mg/kg, there were no significant effects on blood pressure, heart rate or ECG. At 0.01 mg/kg, 
heart rates were significantly lower with corresponding changes in ECG intervals. At 0.05 mg/kg there 
was an increase in systolic arterial blood pressure whereas diastolic pressure remained relatively 
unchanged. The observed decrease in heart rate produced a corresponding increase in RR, PR, QT and 
QRS duration. Although corrected for heart rate, the QTc interval obtained at 120 minutes was 
significantly increased when compared to time-matched vehicle control and pre-dose values, 
suggesting that the increase in QTc may be drug-related. An increase in the number of escape 
complexes within the first 30 minutes post-dosing in three of four dogs were considered to be 
associated with the decreased heart rate. 
Effects of fentanyl on HERG channels and cardiac purkinje fibres have already been described in the 
literature. It is reported that fentanyl inhibits HERG channel with an IC50 of 1.8 µM (Katchman et al., 
2002). Following application of the highest strength of FEBT (800 µg) mean Cmax was quantified in 
clinical studies to be below 3 ng/ml (8.9 nM). This concentration is far below (approximately 200-
fold) of the IC50 of HERG channel. Therefore, this finding seems not to be of clinical relevance. 
Fentanyl has also been tested for effects on action potential duration (APD) in canine cardiac purkinje 
fibers at concentrations of 0.095, 0.19 and 0.95 µM (Blair et al., 1989). 
Nervous system 
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered a single sc dose of fentanyl citrate at 0 (vehicle control) 
-0.003-0.03-0.3 mg/kg, and assessed in the Irwin. 
Transient and dose-related effects were apparent in the mid and high dose groups. At 0.3 mg/kg the 
animals showed apparent CNS depression (flattened posture, decreased alertness, increased ease of 
handling and removal from cage, decreased touch response, decreased fearfulness, decreased body 
tone, exophthalmus, decreased corneal reflex, salivation, piloerection, decreased locomotor activity, 
slowed respiration, decreased startle response, catalepsy, passivity, and decreased righting reflex). The 
CNS depression was transient, with total recovery within 24 h.  
Respiratory system 
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered a single sc dose of fentanyl citrate at 0 (vehicle)-0.003-
0.03-0.3 mg/kg, or a single iv dose of morphine at 20 mg/kg (reference control). 
No significant differences in respiration rate or tidal volume were observed in rats treated with 
fentanyl citrate at doses of 0.003 and 0.03 mg/kg. In the high-dose group there was a significant 
decrease in respiration rate (at 30 minutes and 5 h) and a significant decrease in tidal volume at 30 
minutes. Morphine produced a depression in respiration rate and tidal volume at 30 minutes post-
dosing, consistent with its pharmacological classification as a respiratory depressant. 
In summary, secondary pharmacological effects are respiratory depression, bradycardia, hypothermia, 
constipation, miosis, physical dependence and euphoria. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
An overview of the literature has been submitted mainly on PD interactions with benzodiazepines, 
calcium and potassium ion channels activity and with some anesthetics. No new studies have been 
performed by the applicant. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The applicant has presented an overview of the pharmacokinetic properties of fentanyl, based on 
literature references.  
In support of the formulation of Effentora, the applicant has submitted original studies related to the 
pH dependent transmucosal absorption of fentanyl in anaesthetised dogs. In addition, a study on 
human metabolism in vitro has been submitted. 
Two methods of analysis have been used. A previously validated, commercially available RIA was 
used to determine plasma fentanyl concentrations in the submitted absorption study. The lower limit of 
quantification for fentanyl was 0.2 ng/ml. 
GC-MS methods were developed for identification and quantification of various fentanyl metabolites 
The limits of detection for norfentanyl, despropionylfentanyl and hydroxyfentanyl were 5, 2.5 and 2.5 
ng/ml, respectively. 
6/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absorption 
A bioequivalence study comparing another OTFC product and this product (compressed powder 
formulation) was performed in anaesthetised dogs, looking  at the pH dependence of transbuccal 
absorption of fentanyl. The values of both Cmax and AUC0-6 hr following transmucosal fentanyl 
administration were pH-dependent; increasing with pH over the range 5.03-7.11. The profile for the 
compressed powder formulation buffered to pH 6.49 was most similar to that of the OTFC, with 
bioavailabilities of 21.3% and 19.4%, respectively. Absorption parameters have been further studied in 
humans (see clinical part). 
Distribution 
After distribution, the concentrations of fentanyl in umbilical vein perfusate in rabbits were 
approximately 25% of those in maternal arterial blood, and fetal plasma levels in sheep were 
approximately 40% of those in maternal plasma.  
Fentanyl crosses the placental barrier in animals and humans and may affect the unborn. SPC and PIL 
have been labelled accordingly. 
Fentanyl is excreted into human breast milk; therefore women should not breast-feed while taking 
Effentora because of the possibility of sedation and/or respiratory depression in their infants. SPC and 
PIL have been labelled accordingly 
Metabolism and excretion 
With few exceptions, published literature indicates that fentanyl is extensively metabolised in all 
species studied, with dealkylation to norfentanyl as a major metabolic pathway. 
Biotransformation of fentanyl by human microsomes (from livers and duodenum) have been studied in 
vitro. The metabolism in vitro is mainly by CYP3A4 as demonstrated by the applicant. Guitton et al 
(1997a) have reported that 5 different CYP enzymes (CYP1A1, CYP2C9, CYP3A4, CYP3A5 and 
CYP2D6) exhibited substantial capacity to decrease fentanyl content in single recombinant enzyme 
preparations. This suggests that CYP enzymes other that CYP3A4 may also be involved in human 
metabolism of fentanyl in vitro. 
Toxicology 
In substitute for conventional single dose, repeat dose and reproductive toxicity studies, the applicant 
has provided an overview based on published literature. Although many of the referred studies are 
performed more than 30 years ago and are not GLP-compliant, this is acceptable considering that the 
toxicity profile of fentanyl is well known. 
•  Single dose toxicity  
Single dose toxicity described in the literature in several species and multiple routes of administration 
have been submitted. The toxic signs elicited by fentanyl administration in mice were generally 
similar to those exhibited by morphine and included increased spontaneous activity, circling, increased 
sensitivity to touch, Straub tail, increased muscle tone, respiratory depression and convulsions. After 
IV administration the LD50 was 0.03 mg/kg in monkeys, 2-6 mg/kg in rats, 11 mg/kg in mice and 15 
mg/kg in mice. After oral administration the LD50 was 120 mg/kg in mice. After sub-cutaneous or 
intra-peritoneal administration, the LD50 varied from 1 to 60 mg/kg depending on the species. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity 
A number of repeat-dosing studies using fentanyl by the oral, transmucosal and parenteral (IV, IM, 
SC) routes in rats, rabbits and dogs have been reported in the literature. 
As the level of experimental detail in these studies is generally sparce, it does not permit a full 
scientific evaluation.  
In rats, deaths occurred following oral doses of 10 mg/kg/day or more and following IM doses of 0.1 
to 0.4 mg/kg/day,. The main findings in these studies were weight loss or reductions in weight gain. 
There was no clear-cut evidence of target organ toxicity, although the data are limited, and the cause 
of death was considered to be associated with respiratory depression.  
In rabbits, fentanyl was well-tolerated when administered by the transcutaneous rout for up to 90 days 
at a dose of 0.66 mg/kg/day.  
7/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In dogs, IM administration of fentanyl at doses of 0.1 and 0.4 mg/kg/day for 30 days produced weight 
loss and/or no weight gain over the 30 day test period. Intravenous administration of 0.1, 0.3 and 1.0 
mg/kg fentanyl to dogs for 30 days again produced a decrease in body weight at the highest dose, with 
dose-related clinical signs of sedation and convulsions. All dogs survived both the 30 day IM and IV 
dosing periods. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Fentanyl citrate was evaluated in a standard battery of genotoxicity studies: an in vitro bacterial 
reverse mutation assay, an in vitro mammalian cell (L5178Y mouse lymphoma cells) mutagenicity 
assay, and an in vivo mouse micronucleus assay.  
In one of two mouse lymphoma assay cultures, fentanyl caused a significant increase in mutation 
frequencies at the highest evaluated dose (500 µg/ml) following metabolic activation. Similar results 
have also been reported in previous genotoxicity studies with fentanyl. However, due to negative 
results in the second culture, and negative results in both Ames test in vitro and in the micronucleus 
test in vivo, the equivocal results are considered not clinically relevant. Fentanyl is not considered to 
be genotoxic. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
Long-term carcinogenicity studies have not been performed with fentanyl. Although the carcinogenic 
potential of fentanyl citrate is unknown, the lack of carcinogenicity studies is considered acceptable in 
view of the sought indication, as for other approved fentanyl containing products with similar 
indications 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Studies with female rats revealed reduced fertility and enhanced embryonal mortality. More recent 
studies showed that effects on the embryo were due to maternal toxicity and not to direct effects of the 
substance on the developing embryo. In a study on pre- and postnatal development the survival rate of 
offspring was significantly reduced at doses which slightly reduced maternal weight. This effect could 
either be due to altered maternal care or a direct effect of fentanyl on the pups. Effects on somatic 
development and behaviour of the offspring were not observed. Teratogenic effects have not been 
demonstrated. 
•  Local tolerance  
A study of local tolerance was performed as part of the pharmacokinetic dog study on different buccal 
formulations of fentanyl. No visual irritation was observed for any of the test formulations in any dog. 
Although this study is of limited relevance (off-target species, single dose administration), the 
difficulties inherent to the realisation of a repeat-dose local tolerance in animals and the experience in 
patients justifies the absence of further studies. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Studies on impurities 
Qualifying genotoxicity studies have been performed with three potentially genotoxic arylamine 
impurities in the drug substance and/or the drug product; 4-(N-phenylamino)piperidine (Impurity A), 
N-1-(2-phenylethyl)-4-(N-phenylamino)piperidine (Impurity B) and 1-(N-benzyl)-4-N-
phenylaminopiperidine (Impurity FC1003). The studies were performed in accordance with current 
regulations, and were validated with concordant positive controls. In the chromosomal aberration tests, 
the impurity concentrations were limited by excessive cytotoxicity.  
The results of these genotoxicity studies do not indicate mutagenic or clastogenic effects of the three 
arylamine impurities. 
Impurity B is listed in the Ph.Eur monograph, and is considered qualified up to the suggested 
specifications of 0.25% (designated as impurity D in the Ph.Eur). Proposed specifications for 
impurities A and FC1003 are below the level of qualification for both drug substance (0.15%) and 
drug product (1%), and further testing is therefore not required. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
A phase I environmental risk assessment has been performed. Because the log Kow is below 4.5, 
screening for persistence, bioaccumulation and toxicity was not considered necessary. 
8/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the calculation of the Predicted Environmental Concentration (PEC) the default penetration factor 
(Fpen) of 0.01 has been refined to 0.001 based on published data on the target patient population 
(number of cancer patients suffering from breakthrough pain) and commercial experience. This was 
considered to be acceptable. 
Using these estimates, the calculated PEC value is well below the threshold for a phase II assessment 
of 0.01 µg/l.  
It is therefore concluded that Effentora is unlikely to represent a risk for the environment following the 
suggested usage in patients. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Fentanyl is a well-known selective opioid agonist interacting primarily at µ opioid receptors located 
within the central nervous system. Fentanyl possesses analgesic activity with a potency 80-fold higher 
than morphine, but with shorter duration of action as well as sedative effects. 
The safety pharmacology studies confirm the previously known effects of fentanyl on cardiovascular 
parameters (increased systolic blood pressure, reduced heart rate, ECG-changes including slight QTc-
prolongation), CNS (depression) and respiratory system (depression). 
The transmucosal absorption of fentanyl is pH dependant (between pH 5 to 7) and its profile has been 
characterised mainly in humans. Fentanyl is extensively metabolised in all species studied, with 
dealkylation to norfentanyl as a major metabolic pathway mediated by the CYP3A4. 
In acute and repeat dose studies, there was no identified target organ of toxicity and toxic findings 
were mainly related to the expected respiratory depression. 
Fentanyl is not considered to be genotoxic in the standard battery and the carcinogenic potential has 
not been studied, which is acceptable considering the clinical indication in cancer patients. 
Fentanyl is potentially toxic to the reproduction, affecting the embryofoetal survival and fertility in 
animal studies. Teratogenic effects have not been observed. 
The local tolerance is considered to be acceptable. 
No negative impact on the environment is expected under the therapeutic use of this medicinal 
product. 
1.4   Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic profile of fentanyl is well known and has been extensively characterized (Mather 
and Gourlay 1991). Therefore, only studies designed to characterize those aspects of the 
pharmacokinetics of FEBT that were expected to be unique for this novel formulation have been 
conducted for the purpose of this MAA. Overall, eleven pharmacokinetic (PK) studies have been 
carried out with the “generation III” formulation of Effentora that is proposed for marketing. They are 
summarised in the table below: 
9/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study ID 
Study start, location 
Design 
Study objective 
No of subjects 
enrolled 
(completed)  
42 (39) 
Dose FEBT 
Inclusion criteria 
270-1300 µg 
single dose 
Healthy volunteers 
19-55 years 
Bioavailability, dose 
proportionality, 
bioequivalence 
Dose proportionality 
28 (25) 
200-1080 µg 
single dose 
Healthy volunteers 
19-55 years 
30 (17) 
32 (31) 
32 (26) 
24 (21) 
30 (23) 
25 (19) 
14 (13) 
29 (24) 
19 (16) 
Bioequivalence  
(4 x 100 µg tablets 
vs. 1 x 400 µg) 
Dose proportionality 
Bioavailability 
(buccal/ 
swallowed/i.v.) 
PK 
(single/multiple dose) 
PK, dose 
proportionality 
PK, dose 
proportionality 
PK  
(multiple dose) 
PK (single dose) 
Bioequivalence 
(1 x 400 µg tablets 
vs. 2 x 200 µg) 
Safety/tolerability 
Opioid-tolerant 
cancer patients with 
or without mucositis 
400 µg 
single dose 
Healthy volunteers 
19-45 years 
100-800 µg 
single dose 
Healthy volunteers 
18-44 years 
400 µg  
800 µg 
single dose 
400 µg single 
dose, 400 µg x 4 
for 5 days 
600-1200 µg 
single dose 
Healthy volunteers 
18-45 years 
Healthy volunteers 
18-45 years 
Healthy volunteers 
18-45 years 
100-800 µg 
single dose 
400 µg x 4 for 
2.5 days 
400 µg  
single dose 
200 µg  
single dose 
Healthy Japanese 
volunteers  
19-55 years 
Healthy Japanese 
volunteers  
20-55 years 
Healthy Japanese 
volunteers  
20-55 years 
Opioid-tolerant 
cancer patients > 18 
years with or without 
mucositis 
099-11 
099-18 
C25608/ 
1026/ 
BE/US 
C25608/ 
1027/ 
PK/US 
C25608/ 
1028/ 
BA/US 
C25608/ 
1029/ 
PK/US 
C25608/ 
1037/ 
PK/US 
099-19 
099-20 
099-21 
099-16 
2003, USA 
Randomized, open-
label, 2-way 
crossover  
2003, USA 
Randomized, open-
label, 4-treatment, 4-
period, crossover 
2005, USA 
Randomized, open-
label, crossover 
2005, USA 
Randomized, open-
label, crossover 
2005, USA 
Randomized, open-
label, crossover 
2005, USA 
Nonrandomized, 
open-label,  
2006, USA 
Randomized, open-
label, 4-period, 
crossover 
2004, USA 
Randomized, open-
label, 4-period, 
crossover 
2005, USA 
Open-label 
2005, USA 
Randomized, open-
label, 3-period, 
crossover 
2005, USA 
Open-label 
•  Absorption  
The fentanyl buccal tablet (FEBT) was designed as a buccal dosage form of fentanyl citrate that 
disintegrates in the buccal cavity using effervescence to facilitate transmucosal absorption. The theory 
underlying the idea of using effervescence as penetration enhancer was published by Pather et al. in 
2001. Chemically, fentanyl reacts as a weak base with a pKa value of 7.3. At 1 pH unit below the pKa, 
the ratio of base to salt is 1:10, whereas at 1 pH unit above the pKa, this ratio is 10:1. Accordingly, 
solubility can be increased by lowering the pH value of the surrounding medium whereas absorption, 
which is dependent upon the un-ionized form of fentanyl, will increase with higher pH values. The 
effervescence obtained from the citric acid, sodium bicarbonate, and pH-adjusting ingredients of 
FEBT, is supposed to optimize solubility of fentanyl by initially creating a pH value of about 6.1 
through the chemical reaction of water and carbon dioxide to form carbonic acid. Later, this unstable 
molecule disintegrates leaving carbon dioxide in the air and tissue which causes the pH to rise to 8.4 
and thereby creates optimum conditions for the un-ionized fentanyl molecule to be transmucosally 
absorbed. 
Fentanyl formulated as FEBT is readily absorbed, with an absolute bioavailability of 65% following 
buccal administration. The absorption profile of fentanyl formulated as FEBT is largely the result of 
an initial rapid absorption from the buccal mucosa, with peak plasma concentration attained at 
10/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
approximately 50 to 53 minutes in the fasted state. Approximately 50% of the total dose administered 
is supposed to be absorbed across the buccal mucosa and rapidly becomes systemically available 
The absolute and relative bioavailability of fentanyl formulated as FEBT is explored in study 1028. In 
this study transmucosal (buccal) FEBT (Oravescent fentanyl) (400 µg) was compared to oral 
(swallowed) FEBT (800 µg), transmucosal Actiq (800 µg), and intravenous fentanyl (400 µg). 
Absolute bioavailability of transmucosal and oral fentanyl formulated as FEBT was found to be 65 % 
and 31 %, respectively (see table below).  
Table : Absolute bioavailability of fentanyl by treatment (table from study 1028) 
Pooled data from studies 11, 18, 1026, 1027, 1028, 1029, and 1037 were used to characterize single-
dose pharmacokinetic parameters, which were dose normalized to 100 µg across studies. A total of 
199 subjects were included in the analysis of the single-dose pharmacokinetic profile.  
Plasma concentrations following administration of FEBT typically reach approximately 80% of Cmax 
(T80) within 25 minutes of administration and are maintained through 2 hours after administration 
(Figure 1 below).  
11/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic parameters following the single-dose administration of fentanyl formulated as FEBT 
are summarized in Table below: 
Table 3: Pharmacokinetic parameters of fentanyl following a single dose of FEBT in healthy 
subjects (dose-dependent parameters normalized to 100-µg dose) 
Pooled data are from studies 11, 18, 1026, 1027, 1028, 1029, and 1037.  
λz, apparent plasma/serum terminal elimination rate constant; AUC, area under the plasma/serum concentration by time 
curve; AUC0-∞, AUC from time zero to infinity; Cmax, maximum observed plasma/serum concentration; n, number of 
subjects included in the analysis; SD, standard deviation; t½, elimination half-life; tmax, time to maximum observed 
plasma/serum concentration. 
The tmax values following a single dose of FEBT ranges from ca. 20 to 240 minutes. This wide range is 
explained by the combined transmucosal and gastrointestinal absorption and represent, for the 
majority of subjects, a high plasma concentration attained early and maintained over the first 2 hours 
after the start of administration of FEBT  
•  Distribution 
Fentanyl is highly lipophilic and is well distributed beyond the vascular system, with a large apparent 
volume of distribution. After buccal administration of Effentora, fentanyl undergoes initial rapid 
distribution that represents an equilibration of fentanyl between plasma and the highly perfused tissues 
(brain, heart and lungs).  Subsequently, fentanyl is redistributed between the deep tissue compartment 
(muscle and fat) and the plasma. 
The plasma protein binding of fentanyl is 80% to 85%.  The main binding protein is alpha-1-acid 
glycoprotein, but both albumin and lipoproteins contribute to some extent.  The free fraction of 
fentanyl increases with acidosis. 
•  Elimination 
Fentanyl is metabolised in the liver and in the intestinal mucosa to norfentanyl by CYP3A4 isoform. 
Norfentanyl is not pharmacologically active in animal studies. More than 90% of the administered 
dose of fentanyl is eliminated by biotransformation to N-dealkylated and hydroxylated inactive 
metabolites. 
Following the intravenous administration of fentanyl, less than 7% of the administered dose is 
excreted unchanged in the urine, and only about 1% is excreted unchanged in the faeces. The 
metabolites are mainly excreted in the urine, while faecal excretion is less important. 
Following the administration of Effentora, the terminal elimination phase of fentanyl is the result of 
the redistribution between plasma and a deep tissue compartment. This phase of elimination is slow, 
resulting in a terminal half-life t1/2 of approximately 22 hours following buccal administration of the 
12/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
formulation and approximately 18 hours following intravenous administration. The total plasma 
clearance of fentanyl following intravenous administration is approximately 42 L/h. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
In single dose studies, fentanyl from FEBT exhibits linear pharmacokinetics up to 1000 µg. Mean total 
systemic exposure (AUC0-∞) of fentanyl increased in a dose-proportional manner, while there was a 
tendency that Cmax increased less than dose-dependent for the doses exceeding 1000 µg.  
A slightly higher than expected accumulation after multiple-dose administration is postulated to be 
due to the larger contribution of a deep-tissue compartment to the area under the terminal portion of 
the profile following multiple-dose administration compared with a single dose.  
•  Special populations 
The effect of renal or hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of fentanyl formulated as FEBT has 
not been studied. Published experience from patients with renal and liver impairment is scarce. As 
stated in the SPC, special care should be taken in patients with severe hepatic or renal disease.  
Differences in exposure with Effentora were observed in a clinical study with patients with grade 1 
mucositis. Cmax and AUC0-8 were 1% and 25% higher in patients with mucositis compared to those 
without mucositis, respectively. The differences observed are not considered to be clinically 
significant. 
No studies have been performed specifically to explore dwell time and absorption of fentanyl 
formulated as FEBT in patients with xerostomia. These subjects are instructed to drink water prior to 
administration of FEBT to moisten the oral cavity. If following this recommendation does not result in 
an appropriate response, these patients may need to switch to another therapy. This is reflected in the 
SPC. 
No formal clinical pharmacology studies were specifically conducted to study the effect of gender, 
weight, race, or age. Seven of 9 phase 1 single-dose studies with fentanyl formulated as FEBT are 
included in a pooled database. Pharmacokinetic parameters of fentanyl formulated as FEBT from this 
database showed that women had 21% higher mean dose-normalised AUC0-∞, and 29% higher mean 
Cmax than men, probably largely attributable to differences in weight. From the same database, PK 
parameters showed that subjects with weight < 73.5 kg had 10% higher mean dose-normalised AUC0-
∞, and 12% higher mean Cmax than subjects with weight > 73.5 kg. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No clinical or in vitro drug-drug interaction studies have been performed for FEBT. Fentanyl is 
primarily metabolized in the liver and intestinal mucosa by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) CYP3A4/5 
isoforms to norfentanyl.  Drugs that inhibit CYP3A4/5 activity may increase the bioavailability of 
swallowed fentanyl (by decreasing intestinal and hepatic first-pass metabolism) and may decrease the 
systemic clearance of fentanyl. Drugs that induce CYP3A4/5 activity may decrease the bioavailability 
and increase the systemic clearance of fentanyl. Patients who begin or end therapy with potent 
inhibitors of CYP3A4/5, such as macrolide antibiotics (eg, erythromycin), azole antifungal agents (eg, 
ketoconazole and itraconazole), and protease inhibitors (eg, ritonavir), or potent inducers of 
CYP3A4/5 (eg, rifampicin, carbamazepine, phenytoin) while receiving FEBT should be monitored for 
a change in opioid effects and, if warranted, the dose of FEBT should be adjusted accordingly. 
Concomitant use with MAO inhibitor can give unpredictable potentiation of opioid analgesics. 
There are synergistic interactions between opioids and hypnosedatives with effects mainly on 
sedation, breathing and blood pressure. The interactions between benzodiazepines and opioids have 
been most thoroughly studied (not specifically for FEBT), although similar interactions may occur 
with non-benzodiazepine hypnosedative drugs, sedating antihistamines and alcohol etc. 
13/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Fentanyl has a high affinity and a strong agonist action on the μ-class opioid receptors. The effects on 
the κ-class opioid receptors are only evident in high doses, whereas the effects on the δ-class opioid 
receptors are questioned and, if existent, of little clinical relevance.  
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Fentanyl is highly lipophilic and is rapidly transferred across the blood-brain barrier into the CNS. The 
μ- and κ-receptors in the brain and spinal cord are mostly responsible for the analgesic action of 
fentanyl. Side-effects as respiratory depression and constipation are thought to mainly be mediated 
through the μ-opioid receptors, located in the brainstem, spinal cord and in smooth muscle.  
Clinical efficacy  
The clinical study programme for the assessment of efficacy comprises three studies in patients with 
cancer and breakthrough pain (BTP). In addition, three studies in patients with BTP and painful 
conditions not related to cancer were also performed.  
The sought indication was: 
Effentora is indicated for the management of breakthrough pain (BTP) in patients with cancer who are 
already receiving maintenance opioid therapy for chronic cancer pain. 
BTP is a transitory exacerbation of pain that occurs on a background of otherwise controlled persistent 
pain.  
Patients receiving maintenance opioid therapy are those who are taking at least 60 mg of oral 
morphine daily, at least 25 micrograms of transdermal fentanyl per hour, at least 30 mg of oxycodone 
daily, at least 8 mg of oral hydromorphone daily or an equianalgesic dose of another opioid for a week 
or longer. 
In the approved indication, the 1st sentence has been amended as follows: 
Effentora is indicated for the treatment of breakthrough pain (BTP) in adults with cancer who are 
already receiving maintenance opioid therapy for chronic cancer pain. 
As fentanyl is a controlled opioid substance, this medicinal product will be subject to special medical 
prescription. In addition, in view of the indication and of the potential risk of serious adverse effects 
(respiratory depression) if not properly used, the treatment needs to be initiated by and to remain under 
the guidance of a physician experienced in the management of opioid therapy in cancer patients. These 
restrictions of use are reflected in the SPC section 4.2.  
An overview of the submitted clinical studies is displayed in the table below: 
14/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table : Studies contributing to clinical efficacy and safety data 
Population 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
Study and control drugs 
Dose and regimen 
Study 
objective 
Primary efficacy 
endpoint 
Number of 
patients treated/ 
completed 
Study 
design 
Study 
number  
Efficacy and safety (BTP in patients with cancer) 
Randomized, 
Titration period 
099-14  
double-blind, 
123/ 77 
placebo- 
Double-blind 
period 77/68 
controlled 
Opioid-tolerant 
patients with 
cancer and 
BTP 
- FEBT: 
100, 200, 400, 600, or 800 mcg  
for 7 BTP episodes 
- Placebo: 
for 3 BTP episodes 
Efficacy 
and safety 
SPID30 calculated 
across each episode 
of BTP 
C25608/3039/
BP/US 
Titration period 
125/87 
Double-blind 
period 87/ 75 
Randomized, 
double-blind, 
placebo- 
controlled 
Opioid-tolerant 
patients with 
cancer and 
BTP 
- Study drug (FEBT/placebo) 
given for 10 episodes in 
random order 
- FEBT:  
100, 200, 400, 600, or 800 mcg  
for 7 BTP episodes 
- Placebo: 
for 3 BTP episodes 
- Study drug (FEBT/placebo) 
given for 10 episodes in 
random order 
Efficacy 
and safety 
SPID60 calculated 
across each episode 
of BTP 
099-15a  
214 (104 from 
study 14 and 
3039, 110 de 
novo)/ 15 
completed, 39 
ongoing 
Open-label, 
Long-Term 
Opioid-tolerant 
patients with 
cancer and 
BTP 
- FEBT-naïve patients: titration 
to successful dose (100-, 200-, 
400-, 600- or 800 mcg)  
- All patients: FEBT 100, 200, 
400, 600 or 800 mcg up to 12 
months 
Efficacy 
and safety 
Safety was primary 
endpoint 
- SPID15, SPID45, SPID60 
- PID15, PID30, PID45, PID60 
- PR15, PR30, PR45, PR60 
- TOTPAR15, TOTPAR30, TOTPAR45, TOTPAR60 
- global medication performance assessment (30 and 
60 minutes after study drug adm.) 
- proportion of BTP episodes for which rescue 
medication was used 
- relative risk of using rescue medication 
- SPID30, SPID90, SPID120 
- PID5, PID10, PID15, PID30, PID45, PID60, PID90, PID12
- PR5, PR10, PR15, PR30, PR45, PR60, PR90, PR120 
- TOTPAR60, TOTPAR90, TOTPAR120  
- global medication performance assessment (60 and 
120 minutes after study drug adm.) 
- proportion of BTP episodes for which rescue 
medication was used 
- time to meaningful PR 
- relative risk of using rescue medication 
- patient preference for BTP medication 
Efficacy as measured by 
- Changes in FEBT dose 
- Patient’s assessments of study medication 
- development of incremental tolerance 
Supportive efficacy and safety (BTP in patients with other conditions than cancer-related pain) 
C25608/3041/
BP/US 
Titration period 
103/ 79 
Double-blind 
period 79/77 
Double-
blind, 
randomized, 
placebo-
controlled 
Opioid-tolerant 
patients with 
chronic 
neuropathic 
pain and BTP 
- FEBT: 
100, 200, 400, 600, or 800 mcg  
for 6 BTP episodes 
- Placebo: 
for 3 BTP episodes 
Efficacy 
and safety 
SPID60  
SPID at additional time points, PID, PR score, 
TOTPAR, time of meaningful PR, global medication 
performance assessments, use of rescue medication, 
and patient’s assessment of study drug 
Page 15 of 54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C25608/3042/
BP/US  
Titration period 
105/77 
Double-blind 
period 77/ 75 
Double-
blind, 
randomized, 
placebo-
controlled 
Opioid-tolerant 
patients with 
chronic low 
back pain and 
BTP 
C25608/3040/
BP/US 
633 (98 from 
study 3041 and 
3042, 535 de 
novo)/ 0 
completed, 409 
ongoing 
Open-label, 
Long-Term 
Opioid-tolerant 
patients with 
chronic non-
cancer pain 
and BTP 
- Study drug (FEBT/placebo) 
given for 9 episodes in random 
order 
- FEBT: 
100, 200, 400, 600, or 800 mcg  
for 6 BTP episodes 
- Placebo: 
for 3 BTP episodes 
- Study drug (FEBT/placebo) 
given for 9 episodes in random 
order 
- FEBT-naïve patients: titration 
to successful dose (100-, 200-, 
400-, 600- or 800 mcg)  
- All patients: FEBT 100, 200, 
400, 600, or 800 mcg up to 18 
months 
Efficacy 
and safety 
SPID60  
SPID at additional time points, PID, PR score, 
TOTPAR, time of meaningful pain relief, global 
medication performance assessments, use of rescue 
medication, and patient’s assessment of study drug 
Efficacy 
and safety 
Safety was primary 
endpoint 
Efficacy as measured by different effcacy parameters 
16/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
•  Dose response studies 
Traditional dose-effect relationships have not been presented. However, the CHMP agrees that the 
pain conditions as well as the need for individual titration to successful doses, make dose-response 
estimates less meaningful, and the lack of such estimates is therefore considered acceptable. 
The doses chosen for the titration scheme were based on pharmacokinetic comparison with a marketed 
OTFC fentanyl product. Accordingly, the start dose (100 mcg) and the other successive doses up to 
800 mcg are considered suitable for the individual dose-response titration. Comparison of serum 
fentanyl PK following the administration of 1080 mcg FEBT and 1600 mcg OTFC showed that the 
average fentanyl exposure (AUC) was similar and the rate of absorption was faster for FEBT. 
However, responses to doses above 800 were not tested in cancer patients, even though sufficient 
analgesia was not achieved in all patients. However, it is important to note that the currently proposed 
dose range of 100 to 800 mcg has been proven to be effective for a large proportion of patients.  
•  Main studies  
The dossier contains two main clinical efficacy / safety studies: 
Study 099-14 (hereafter denoted 14):  
«A Multicenter, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Study of ORAVESCENT Fentanyl Citrate for the 
Treatment of Breakthrough Pain in Opioid-Tolerant Cancer Patients» 
Study C25608/3039/BP/US (hereafter denoted 3039):   
«A Double-Blind, Randomized, Placebo-Controlled Study to Evaluate the Efficacy, Safety, and 
Tolerability of ORAVESCENT Fentanyl Citrate in Opioid-Tolerant Patients With Cancer and 
Breakthrough Pain» 
In addition, a long-term open label safety study, study 099-15 (hereafter denoted 15) was conducted: «A 
Multicenter, Open_label Long-Term Study of ORAVESCENT Fentanyl Citrate for the Treatment of 
Breakthrough Pain in Opioid-Tolerant Cancer Patients»  
This is an extension study where patients who completed one of the above mentioned studies and were 
eligible for this study, along with new patients who qualified for the study.  
As no active comparator studies were submitted for efficacy and safety, the comparison with 
alternative treatments is largely confined to an indirect assessment based on comparative 
pharmacokinetic profiles between Effentora and the OTFC product. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Both studies 14 and 3039 were multi-centre studies, each conducted at 30 centres in the United States. 
The inclusion and exclusion criteria are acceptable and representative of the population likely to use 
the medication according to the proposed indication. These criteria do not differ markedly between the 
two studies, which are therefore described and discussed together. As the patients included are > 18 
years of age, this precludes use in children and adolescents at this stage of clinical development. 
Treatments 
The study design of the two pivotal phase III studies are shown in the Figure below. It consisted of an 
open-label FEBT dose-titration period and a randomized, double-blind treatment period. The 
randomized, predetermined order of 7 FEBT tablets and 3 placebo tablets shown in the figure is 
1 example of the 18 possible treatment sequences. This makes the individual patient his own placebo 
control. 
17 of 35 
       © EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure : 
Study design of study 14 and study 3039 of Fentanyl Buccal Tablets (FEBT) in 
patients with cancer and breakthrough pain 
The purpose of the open-label dose titration period was to determine, for each patient individually, a 
successful dose. The patient’s successful dose was defined as the dose of FEBT, either 100, 200, 400, 
600, or 800 mcg, that provided adequate analgesia (sufficient pain relief within 30 minutes after 
placing the tablet in the buccal cavity for 2 consecutive episodes of BTP that occurred at least 4 hours 
apart) without unacceptable adverse events. 
Objectives 
The objective of the studies was to determine the efficacy and safety of FEBT when used to relieve 
BTP in opioid-tolerant patients with cancer who were receiving maintenance opioids. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Patients were asked to complete a series of assessments with each dose of study drug taken during the 
double-blind treatment period and record the information in a diary provided to them. These measures 
included pain intensity (PI), pain relief (PR), a global medication performance assessment, and the use 
of rescue medication. 
The assessment of efficacy included the following measures for every episode of BTP for which study 
drug was used during the double-blind treatment period: 
• 
PI assessment: An 11-point linear numerical rating scale was used by the patient to rate pain 
(0=no pain through 10=worst pain). Patients rated their pain immediately prior to the 
administration of study drug and at specified time points after the administration of study drug. 
PR assessment: A 5-point Likert scale was used to measure PR (0=none, 1=slight, 2=moderate, 
3=a lot, and 4=complete).  Patients rated their PR at specified time points after the administration 
of study drug. 
• 
•  Global medication performance assessment: A 5-point categorical scale was used to rate how 
well study drug performed in controlling BTP (0=poor, 1=fair, 2=good, 3=very good, and 
4=excellent).  Patients rated global medication performance at specified time points after the 
administration of study drug. 
•  Use of rescue medication: Patients recorded any use of their standard rescue medication for BTP 
episodes for which study drug was used. 
For integration of efficacy data from the 2 studies, SPID, PID, PR, and TOTPAR were calculated for 
the common time points in both studies at which PI was reported, ie, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after 
the administration of study drug.  Global medication performance assessment scores were integrated 
18/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for the common 60-minute time point.  The proportion of BTP episodes for which rescue medication 
was used was integrated because it was not time dependent. 
The pain intensity difference (PID) was derived from PI scores. PID is the change from PI score 
immediately prior to administration of study drug for each BTP episode to the PI assessment at each 
specified time point after administration of study drug. 
The primary efficacy variable in both studies was the summed pain intensity difference (SPID).  
SPID was calculated as the sum of the PID at each specified interval after administration of study drug 
for each BTP episode. 
The primary efficacy variable for study 14 was the sum of individual pain intensity differences 
through 30 minutes after the start of administration of study drug (SPID30). SPID30 was calculated for 
each BTP episode as the sum of PID at both 15 and 30 minutes after administration of study drug and 
is derived from PID as follows: SPID30=PID15+PID30. 
The primary efficacy variable for study 3039 was the SPID through 60 minutes after the start of 
administration of study drug (SPID60). 
Statistical methods 
The primary efficacy variable in study 14 was SPID30. This was compared between treatments by 
analysis of variance (ANOVA) with treatment and centre as fixed effects and patient as a random 
effect. This model was also used for secondary analyses of SPID and TOTPAR. Secondary efficacy 
variables PID, PR score, and global medication performance assessment were compared between 
treatments by the (one sample) Wilcoxon signed ranks test. The test was based on average scores for 
each patient per treatment. 
In study 3039 the primary efficacy variable was SPID60 which was compared between treatments by 
analysis of variance (ANOVA) with treatment as a fixed effect and patient as a random effect. This 
model was also used for the secondary variables of SPID, PID, and TOTPAR. A permutation test was 
performed on the primary variable to assess the robustness of the results.  The secondary efficacy 
variables PID, PR score, and global medication performance assessment were compared between 
treatments by the (one sample) Wilcoxon signed ranks test. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
A total of 248 patients entered the dose titration period for both studies. Of these, 150 patients entered 
the double-blind treatment period. 
Baseline data 
Patients’ BTP pathophysiology at baseline was categorized as predominantly neuropathic, 
predominantly nociceptive, or mixed (about 50% neuropathic and 50% nociceptive). In the full 
analysis set for both studies combined, 20% of patients had predominantly neuropathic pain, 46% of 
patients had predominantly nociceptive pain, and 34% of patients had mixed pain. BTP 
pathophysiology at baseline for patients in the safety analysis set was generally comparable to those of 
the patients in the full analysis set. 
At baseline, for the full analysis set, the median oral morphine equivalent dose per day taken as 
around-the-clock (ATC) medication overall was 160.0 mg (range 5.0 to 4800 mg). The mean oral 
morphine equivalent dose per day taken as rescue medication for BTP was 23.9 mg (range 1 to 
480 mg) per episode. The data are summarised in the following table: 
19/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Variable 
Statistic 
ATC therapy (mg/day) 
n 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min, max 
Rescue medication (mg/BTP episode) 
n 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Min, max 
Prior BTP therapy 
Oral transmucosal fentanyl citrate 
Other 
Study 14 
(N=72) 
Study 3039 
(N=78) 
Total 
(N=150) 
69 
241.8 (578.01) 
130.0 
5.0, 4800.0 
78 
225.0 (193.06) 
160.0 
60.0, 960.0 
147 
232.9 (418.73) 
160.0 
5.0, 4800.0 
61 
21.3 (23.91) 
16.0 
1.0, 160.0 
78 
25.9 (53.28) 
18.0 
6.0, 480.0 
1 (1) 
71 (99) 
8 (10) 
70 (90) 
139 
23.9 (42.87) 
16.0 
1.0, 480.0 
9 (6) 
141 (94) 
The average pain intensities associated with BTP episodes before the first dose of FEBT were 
similar in both studies (6.9 and 6.4 for studies 14 and 3039, respectively) as shown in the 
table below: 
Outcomes and estimation 
A total of 167 (67%) patients identified a successful dose, and this dose was 100, 200, or 400 mcg for 
31% (78 of 248) of patients and 600 or 800 mcg for 36% (89 of 248) of patients.  During the dose 
titration period, the mean duration of exposure to treatment was 6.3 days (median 4.0 days, range 1 to 
109 days). 
Primary endpoint: Evaluation of Analgesic Efficacy Results (SPID) 
The primary efficacy variable in study 14 was the SPID30, and the primary efficacy variable in 
study 3039 was the SPID60. The mean of the SPIDtime is given for the 7 episodes of BTP with FEBT 
treatment compared with the mean for the 3 episodes with placebo, see next Table. 
The primary efficacy variables of both studies showed a statistically significant difference between 
FEBT and placebo treatment in favour of FEBT. The treatment difference was 1.2 (95% CI [0.83, 
1.62]) for study 14(SPID30) and 4.8 (95% CI [3.87, 5.64]) for study 3039 (SPID60). 
20/35 
© EMEA 2008 
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table : Summed Pain Intensity Difference at 30 and 60 minutes posttreatment (Full Analysis 
Set) 
Variable 
Statistic 
SPID 30 minutes posttreatment 
n  
Mean (SD) 
Median  
Min, max  
p-value  
95% CI (FEBT–placebo) 
SPID 60 minutes posttreatment 
Study 14 
Study 3039 
Total 
FEBT 
(N=72) 
Placebo 
(N=72) 
FEBT 
(N=78) 
Placebo 
(N=78) 
FEBT 
(N=150) 
Placebo 
(N=150) 
72 
3.2 (2.60) 
2.6 
–1.0, 12.7 
<0.0001 
0.83, 1.62 
72 
2.0 (2.21) 
1.3 
–1.7, 9.7 
–– 
–– 
78 
3.3 (2.23) 
2.7 
0.0, 9.6 
<0.0001 
1.07, 1.80 
78 
150 
1.8 (1.92)  3.2 (2.41) 
1.3 
2.7 
–0.6, 9.8  –1.0, 12.7 
–– 
1.06, 1.60 
150 
1.9 (2.06) 
1.3 
–1.7, 9.8 
–– 
–– 
–– 
–– 
78 
n  
Mean  (SD) 
Median  
Min, max  
p-value  
95% CI (FEBT–placebo) 
72 
10.5 (5.99)
8.7 
72 
6.2 (5.49) 
5.4 
–1.1, 27.6  –1.3, 23.0 
<0.0001 
3.42, 5.37 
78 
150 
150 
9.7 (5.58)  4.9 (4.38)  10.1 (5.77)  5.5 (4.97) 
8.9 
0.0, 26.8 
<0.0001 
3.87, 5.64 
4.2 
8.7 
–0.9, 21.8  –1.1, 27.6  –1.3, 23.0 
–– 
3.92, 5.24 
4.8 
–– 
–– 
–– 
–– 
NOTE: The confidence interval, and p-value for the treatment comparison for study 14 are from an analysis of 
variance (ANOVA) with treatment and center as fixed factors and patient as a random factor.  The confidence 
interval, and p-value for the treatment comparison for study 3039 are from an ANOVA with treatment as a 
fixed factor and patient as a random factor.  The confidence interval for the treatment comparison for both 
studies combined are from an ANOVA with treatment and study as fixed factors and patient as a random 
factor.  
–– 
–– 
Secondary endpoints 
The analyses of the secondary variables PID, PR, TOTPAR, global medication performance 
assessment at different time points and time to meaningful pain relief, suggest that FEBT provides 
better analgesia than placebo, also during the short period of BTP. 
Evaluation of Analgesic Efficacy Results (PID) 
In study 14, the difference in favour of treatment with FEBT at every time point was statistically 
significant (p<0.01 (* in Fig 4) at 15 minutes and p<0.0001 (+ in Fig 4) at 30, 45, and 60 minutes), see 
Figure 4. The treatment difference between FEBT and placebo increased through the 60-minute 
observation period. 
21/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4: 
Mean (+/–SEM) Pain Intensity Difference in study 14 at each time point by 
treatment received (N=72) (Full Analysis Set) 
In addition, for study 3039, mean PID at earlier (5 and 10 minutes) and at later (90 and 120 minutes) 
time points after administration of study drug were also secondary variables.  At 10 minutes and at all 
time points through the end of the observation period (120 minutes), there was a statistically 
significant difference (p<0.0001, + in Fig 5) in favour of treatment with FEBT (Figure 5).  
Figure 5: 
Mean (+/–SEM) Pain Intensity Difference in study 3039 at each time point by 
treatment received (N=78) (Full Analysis Set) 
The mean pain relief (PR) showed a statistically significant difference between FEBT and placebo 
treatment in favour of FEBT for both studies. Pain relief increased through 1 hour after the 
administration of study drug and was maintained through 2 hours. 
22/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean total pain relief (TOTPAR) showed a statistically significant (p<0.0001) difference between 
FEBT and placebo treatment in favor of FEBT all time points. The difference in TOTPAR was 
maintained through 2 hours. 
Global medication performance was assessed by patients 30 and 60 minutes after the administration of 
study drug in study 14, and 60 and 120 minutes after the administration of study drug in study 3039. 
The mean difference in performance between the FEBT and placebo was statistically significant 
(p<0.0001) in favour of FEBT in both studies at 60 minutes, which is the only common time point for 
the 2 studies. 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
No studies have been performed in children and this is reflected in the SPC. 
•  Supportive studies 
Study 15 was a long-term multicentre, open-label study designed to determine the tolerability and 
safety of FEBT when used as maintenance treatment to relieve BTP in opioid-tolerant patients with 
cancer. Secondary objectives were to assess the clinical efficacy of FEBT when used as maintenance 
treatment for BTP. The study included a screening period and an open-label dose titration period for 
new patients, and a maintenance treatment period for all patients. 
The primary objective was to determine the tolerability and safety of FEBT when used long-term to 
relieve BTP in opioid-tolerant patients with cancer who are receiving ATC opioids. Clinical efficacy 
was assessed as a secondary objective. 
197 patients fulfilled the criteria for long-term maintenance period, and were evaluable for efficacy. 
The mean exposure time was 181 days, 36 patients were treated ≥ 12 months. The median global 
medication performance ratings were 2.3 on a scale of 0 to 4 just prior to the start of maintenance 
treatment and 2.1 at endpoint. Of the 197 patients 69% had the same final dose at their final visit as 
their original successful dose. 
In the other supportive studies (denoted 3040, 3041 and 3042) patients represent a separate patient 
population. However, the safety data for the studies are included in the safety analyses. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
In the 2 pivotal, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies, the efficacy of FEBT was shown to be 
consistent, with significant (mostly highly significant) differences from placebo across the range of 
successful doses, across common time points (15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after administration) and 
across all measures, including pain intensity (expressed as pain intensity difference and summed pain 
intensity difference), pain relief, rescue medication usage, and global medication performance. 
Patients receiving FEBT during the double-blind treatment phase were more than three times less 
likely to need rescue medication than patients receiving placebo.  
However, the order of magnitude of the clinical response as effect size at the early time points is rather 
small (although highly significant): Summed pain intensity differences after 30 min (SPID30) were 1.2 
for study 14 and 1.5 for study 3039. 
The effective dose was determined individually by using a titration regimen, in two consecutive BTP 
episodes. Accordingly, a dose-response relationship could not be determined because the design of the 
studies did not allow for a comparison across doses. 
The titration regimen (starting at 100 mcg) was simple to follow, and the majority of patients (about 
65%) achieved an effective dose. No linear or simple relationship between the daily maintenance dose 
and the effective dose of FEBT could be determined and there was considerable variability (see 
pharmacokinetic section). 
It is known from the literature, that BTP usually has a rapid onset, and the median duration of a BTP 
episode has been estimated to 15-30 min (Svendsen et al. 2005). However, it is important to note that 
23/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the currently proposed dose range of 100 to 800 mcg has been proven to be effective for a large 
proportion of patients. 
Indirect comparisons with alternative treatments may, however, indicate that the onset of action after 
administration of Effentora is more rapid than current alternatives like OTFC products and peroral 
opioids (see also Pharmacokinetic section). 
On the other hand, the prolonged BTP episodes in some patients should also be taken into 
consideration, since such patients may well profit from a duration of action (up to 2 hours) that 
exceeds the average BTP periods. Even though Effentora has shortcomings regarding time-effect 
profile in the treatment of BTP, the product is nevertheless considered to be at least as efficient as 
current alternative oral treatments when taking into account the time-window of the transient BTP 
episodes. 
Clinical safety 
In addition to the 3 phase 3 studies in patients with cancer, and given the common mechanisms of BTP 
in patients with cancer and noncancer-related background pain, supportive safety data were also 
provided from 3 similarly designed studies, which included the same dosage regimen in patients with 
chronic non-cancer pain (neuropathic and musculoskeletal pain) and BTP. The safety analysis set 
comprises 358 patients for chronic cancer pain and 740 patients for non-cancer pain which is 
considered to be sufficiently large for safety evaluation. 
•  Patient exposure 
A total of 1098 patients with BTP (both patients with cancer and patients with chronic non-cancer 
pain) received FEBT in six phase 3 studies. Of these patients, 358 were suffering from cancer (pain). 
An overall safety assessment was performed by pooling the safety data from all the studies in cancer 
(studies 14, 15, and 3039). In addition, the safety data obtained from all studies including patients with 
chronic non-cancer pain studies (3040, 3041, and 3042) were pooled. Furthermore, a total of 
273 healthy men and women in 10 phase 1 studies and 16 opioid-tolerant patients with cancer (with 
and without oral mucositis) received one or more single doses of FEBT and were evaluated for safety. 
Two study groupings were analysed in the overall safety assessment, and the main groups are 
described below. 
The set of enrolled patients: 
The set includes all patients who were enrolled (ie, were dispensed study drug) in any of the included 
studies, whether or not a patient took any study drug (FEBT or placebo). The set of enrolled patients 
was used for the summary of patient disposition. 
The safety analysis set: 
The set includes all patients in the set of enrolled patients who took at least 1 dose of study drug. The 
safety analysis set was used for all summaries of study drug exposure, demographic and baseline 
characteristics, and safety data. 
Demographic characteristics of patients: 
On average patients with cancer were older and tended to weigh less than patients with chronic non-
cancer pain. There was a lower percentage of white people in the cancer patient group. The proportion 
of male and women was similar in the two groups of patients. 
The BTP characteristics and opioid medications at baseline for patients are shown in the table below. 
ATC doses are expressed as oral morphine equivalent doses in mg. The ATC medication and rescue 
medication was higher for the patients with chronic non-cancer pain. The proportion of use of OTFC 
was similar between the two groups of patients. 
24/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 26: 
BTP characteristics and opioid medications at baseline (Safety Analysis Set) 
Characteristic/therapy 
Classification of BTP mechanism 
Predominantly neuropathic 
Predominantly nociceptive 
Mixed (about 50/50) 
Not collected 
Opioid usage at baseline 
Prior BTP therapy, n (%) 
OTFC 
Other 
ATC medication (mg/day) 
N 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min, max 
Rescue medication (mg/BTP episode) 
N 
Mean 
SD 
Median 
Min, max 
Patients with cancer and BTP 
 (N=358) 
Patients with chronic 
noncancer pain and BTP 
(N=740) 
62 (17) 
170 (47) 
126 (35) 
- 
25 (7) 
333 (93) 
351 
258.6 
386.15 
160.0 
0.8, 4800.0 
336 
21.5 
30.57 
15.0 
1.0, 480.0 
117 (16) 
220 (30) 
196 (26) 
207 (28) 
56 (8) 
684 (92) 
737 
416.6 
2767.65 
160.0 
10.0, 70000.0 
730 
41.2 
151.80 
20.0 
0.5, 3000.0 
•  Adverse events  
In patients with cancer and BTP, the most frequently occurring adverse events (≥10% of patients by 
preferred term) in this patient population were the following: nausea, dizziness, vomiting, fatigue, 
headache, constipation, somnolence, anemia and peripheral edema. Adverse events related to the 
application site were reported for 31 (9%) patients. Common adverse events (those occurring in at 
least 5% of patients) are presented in the following Table: 
25/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
Table:  Treatment-emergent AEs occurring in at least 5% of patients with cancer and BTP 
overall (Safety Analysis Set) 
System organ class 
MedDRA high-level terma 
MedDRA preferred term 
Number of patients with posttreatment data 
Number of patients with at least 1 adverse event 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Anemias NEC 
Anemia 
Neutropenias 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Nausea and vomiting symptoms 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Gastrointestinal atonic and hypomotility disorders NEC 
Constipation 
Gastrointestinal and abdominal pains (excl oral and throat) 
Abdominal pain 
Diarrhoea (excl infective) 
Diarrhoea 
Stomatitis and ulceration 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Asthenic conditions 
Fatigue 
Asthenia 
Oedema NEC 
Oedema peripheral 
Application and instillation site reactions 
Infections and infestations 
Lower respiratory tract and lung infections 
Pneumonia 
Upper respiratory tract infections 
Candida infections 
Investigations 
Physical examination procedures 
Weight decreased 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Total fluid volume decreased 
Dehydration 
Appetite disorders 
Anorexia 
Potassium imbalance 
Hypokalemia 
Number (%) of patients with 
cancer and BTP 
(N=358) 
355 (100) 
297 (84) 
38 (11) 
38 (11) 
17 (5) 
117 (33) 
104 (29) 
62 (17) 
50 (14) 
45 (13) 
38 (11) 
25 (7) 
27 (8) 
27 (8) 
19 (5) 
81 (23) 
56 (16) 
31 (9) 
43 (12) 
35 (10) 
31 (9) 
29 (8) 
21 (6) 
22 (6) 
16 (5) 
28 (8) 
19 (5) 
33 (9) 
32 (9) 
32 (9) 
22 (6) 
18 (5) 
18 (5) 
Footnotes are presented at the end of the table  
(continued) 
26/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table:  Treatment-emergent AEs occurring in at least 5% of patients with cancer and BTP 
overall (Safety Analysis Set) (Continued) 
System organ class 
MedDRA high-level terma 
MedDRA preferred term 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue signs and symptoms NEC 
Back pain 
Joint related signs and symptoms 
Arthralgia 
Neoplasms benign, malignant, and unspecified (includes cysts and polyps) 
Oncologic complications and emergencies 
Nervous system disorders 
Neurological signs and symptoms NEC 
Dizziness 
Disturbances in consciousness NEC 
Somnolence 
Headaches NEC 
Headache 
Paraesthesias and dysaesthesias 
Tremor (excl. congenital) 
Psychiatric disorders 
Confusion and disorientation 
Confusional state 
Depressive disorders 
Depression 
Anxiety symptoms 
Anxiety 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Breathing abnormalities 
Dyspnoea 
Coughing and associated symptoms 
Cough 
Upper respiratory signs and symptoms 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Apocrine and eccrine gland disorders 
Pruritis NEC 
Pruritis 
Number (%) of 
patients with cancer 
and BTP 
(N=358) 
45 (13) 
17 (5) 
18 (5) 
18 (5) 
17 (5) 
83 (23) 
83 (23) 
57 (16) 
38 (11) 
50 (14) 
49 (14) 
18 (5) 
16 (5) 
23 (6) 
18 (5) 
21 (6) 
21 (6) 
21 (6) 
17 (5) 
30 (8) 
21 (6) 
28 (8) 
20 (6) 
17 (5) 
18 (5) 
18 (5) 
16 (5) 
a High-level terms are sorted by descending order of incidence within system organ class.  Patients may have 
reported more than 1 adverse event type, but are counted only once in each preferred term category and only 
once in each high-level term. 
Adverse events related to the application site and oral mucosal examination findings. 
For cancer patients, 31 (9%) had adverse events related to the application site. Twenty patients 
experienced events that were symptomatic, and 16 patients had physical findings related to the 
application site. 
For non-cancer patients, 87 (12%) had adverse events related to the application site. Fifty-nine patients 
experienced events that were symptomatic, and 32 patients had physical findings related to the 
application site. 
Overall, local tolerability does not appear to be of particular concern, since all of the events 
observed in healthy subjects were mild and resolved with no residual effects. Furthermore, 
these adverse events resolved without residual effect for the vast majority of patients.  
In section 4.2 of the SPC, a change in tablet placement within the buccal cavity is recommended in 
case of buccal mucosa irritation. 
27/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The incidence of adverse events related to the application site was not increase in patients with 
mucositis or dry mouth/xerostomia. It is recommended in the SPC (section 4.2) that patients 
experiencing xerostomia are advised to drink a glass of water to moisten the buccal cavity prior to 
administration of the product,  
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Deaths: A total of 75 patients died after enrolment into 1 of the Phase 3 studies of FEBT in 
patients with cancer and BTP. Twelve patients died of adverse events that started during the 
titration period and 63 patients died during or after the long-term maintenance treatment 
period. All deaths were due to the patients’ underlying conditions and were considered not 
related or unlikely to be related to study drug. 
Serious AEs: A total of 119 (34%) patients with cancer and BTP experienced 1 or more 
treatment-emergent serious adverse events (see following Table). The most frequently reported serious 
adverse events were pneumonia (14 [4%] patients) and dehydration (12 [3%]) patients).  
Five patients with cancer and BTP had adverse events of respiratory failure. In each case, the event 
was considered by the investigator to be related to the patient’s underlying condition and not related to 
treatment with the study drug.  
Adverse events of respiratory failure were reported for 2 patients with chronic non-cancer pain. One 
patient had pneumonia followed by respiratory failure. This was considered not related to study drug 
treatment. The other patient was reported as taking six 800-mcg tablets of FEBT over an 11-hour 
period in association with benzodiazepines and barbiturates. The patient was treated for poly-drug 
overdose. The events were considered possibly related to study drug treatment.  The events resolved 
and the patient was withdrawn from the study. This case is a reminder of risks associated with 
overdose after repetitive frequent intake of fentanyl. 
Overall, no unexpected trends in serious AEs are observed. 
28/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 31: 
Serious AEs in patients with cancer and BTP (Safety Analysis Set) 
System organ class 
MedDRA preferred term 
Number of patients with posttreatment data 
Number of patients with at least 1 serious adverse event 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Anaemia 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Vomiting 
Nausea 
Abdominal pain 
Diarrhoea 
Infections and infestations 
Pneumonia 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Dehydration 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (incl cysts 
and polyps) 
Cancer pain 
Colon cancer metastatic 
Lung cancer metastatic 
Breast cancer 
Breast cancer metastatic 
Colon cancer 
Lung neoplasm malignant 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Pancreatic carcinoma 
Psychiatric disorders 
Confusional state 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Respiratory failure 
Number (%) of patients 
Total 
(N=358) 
355 (100) 
119 (34) 
9 (3) 
5 (1) 
16 (5) 
7 (2) 
6 (2) 
4 (1) 
4 (1) 
22 (6) 
14 (4) 
17 (5) 
12 (3) 
71 (20) 
6 (2) 
5 (1) 
5 (1) 
4 (1) 
4 (1) 
4 (1) 
4 (1) 
4 (1) 
4 (1) 
9 (3) 
5 (1) 
15 (4) 
4 (1) 
•  Laboratory findings 
Clinically significant abnormal high serum chemistry values occurred for BUN, serum creatinine, uric 
acid, AST, ALT, alkaline phosphatase, and total bilirubin, and for the haematology values clinically 
significant abnormal high values occurred for WBC count, eosinophils, and platelet counts. The most 
frequently reported of these clinically significant hematology abnormalities were low hematocrit 
values (116 [38%] patients) and low hemoglobin values (76 [25%] patients). 
•  Safety in special populations 
The safety in children and adolescents has not been studied. However, the risk of fatality in children in 
mentioned in the SPC. 
It is known that the clearance of fentanyl after intravenous administration can be impaired in patients 
with hepatic or renal impairment. Therefore, caution is recommended in the SPC for such patients as 
well as for the elderly patients (> 65 years). 
For all patients with cancer and BTP, the incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events was 
summarized for patient subgroups based on age group (≤65 years, >65 years), BMI group 
(<median [25.8 kg/m2], ≥median), sex (men, women), and race group (white, nonwhite).  
Taking extrinsic factors into consideration, for all patients with cancer and BTP, the incidence of 
adverse events was summarized for patient subgroups based on prior BTP therapy (OTFC, other), 
average daily dose, and average dose per BTP episode. The observed differences in adverse events 
were considered to be of minor clinical significance. 
No studies have been conducted to evaluate the potential withdrawal and/or rebound effects of FEBT 
treatment. Adverse events of drug withdrawal syndrome or narcotic (opiate) withdrawal syndrome or 
symptoms were reported for 6 patients (1 patient with cancer pain and 5 patients with chronic non-
cancer pain and BTP pain. 
29/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
Overdose and drug abuse 
Seven patients, all with chronic non-cancer pain and BTP, reported adverse events related to excessive 
opioid effects thought to be associated with opioid overdose. FEBT is a new formulation of fentanyl 
citrate designed for use by opioid-tolerant cancer patients with BTP. The abuse potential of fentanyl is 
well known and the same as other strong opioid analgesics. Because of the potential for abuse, a Risk 
Minimization Action Plan has been developed for FEBT. This plan includes tools designed to 
minimize the level of abuse and to minimize diversion of FEBT after it becomes commercially 
available. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
The potential for drug-drug interaction (see pharmacokinetic section) is known in the scientific 
literature and adequately reflected in the SPC. In addition, the concomitant use with partial opioid 
agonists/antagonists (e.g. buprenorphine, nalbuphine, pentazocine) may induce withdrawal symptoms 
in opioid dependent patients. This is also reflected in the SPC. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
For patients with cancer and BTP, a total of 103 (29%) withdrew from a study due adverse events. The 
most frequently reported adverse events leading to study withdrawal were nausea (4%) and vomiting 
(3%). Adverse events related to the application site led to the withdrawal of 6 (2%) patients. 
Application site ulcer led to the withdrawal of 1% of the patients, and application site erythema, 
irritation, edema, and pain each led to the withdrawal of 1 patient.  
Most withdrawals due to adverse events in the cancer population were considered by the investigator 
not related or unlikely related to treatment with study drug. For cancer patients it is not unusual to be 
treated with a large number of different drugs concomitantly. Therefore it is almost impossible to 
judge which AE was caused by which drug, and hence which drug led to discontinuation. 
•  Post marketing experience 
FEBT is currently marketed in the US only. Patient exposure to FEBT in the US is estimated at over a 
million patient treatment days. 
A total of 120 ADRs were identified, of which 3 were serious up to the date of May 2007. Three 
additional reports with fatal outcome were received after this cut-off date. 
Among the non-serious events, the most common reports were from the system order class of 
gastrointestinal disorders, with application site events reported more often than others. 
All cases of death occurred as a result of improper patient selection (e.g. use in non-opioid tolerant 
patients), improper dosing, and/or improper product substitution. A safety warning to health care 
professionals has been issued to explain the dangers of this medicine when used improperly (available 
on the FDA website). 
This is also reflected in the EU Product Information stating that patients experiencing multiple BTP 
episodes daily should wait at least 4 hours before treating another episode with Effentora, as 
recommended during clinical trials. In addition the warning on the risk of respiratory depression for 
non-opioid tolerant patients has been moved as a contra-indication (section 4.3 of the SPC). This is 
also reflected in the risk management plan as risk minimisation activities. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Fentanyl is a µ-receptor agonist with a profile of pharmacological activity similar to that of morphine, 
but with greater potency. It is primarily used as an intravenous analgesic, sedative, and anaesthetic 
before and during surgery, for the treatment of postoperative pain, for chronic pain (transdermal 
patches), and, finally, for management of breakthrough pain (BTP) in opioid-non-naïve patients with 
cancer (OTFC). Due to decades of widespread clinical use, the pharmacological / safety profile of the 
active substance is well established. The known adverse events associated with opioid use, are drug 
withdrawal syndrome, respiratory depression/failure, and pneumonia. 
30/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therefore, the additional potential issues for the clinical safety of Effentora are whether this 
innovative administration technique using effervescence and the associated early time of maximum 
lasma concentration can cause an unexpectedly high incidence of AE typically observed in opioid 
p
therapy or of reactions at the application site. 
Overall, the most common adverse events observed with FEBT treatment were characteristic of 
fentanyl-containing products, namely nausea, dizziness, constipation, fatigue, headache, and vo
The incidence and types of adverse events did not appear to be dose related which, most presumabl
is to be explained by the fact that each patient was titrated to his individual 
F
events observed in the context of these clinical trials. 
urthermore, the rapid absorption of FEBT did not appear to affect the type or severity of adverse 
need for analgesia. 
miting. 
y, 
Additionally, approximately 10% of patients experienced adverse events that could be considered 
related to tablet application site, e.g., application site pain, ulcer, or burning. In the majority of 
patients, these adverse events were mild to moderate and resolved without treatment interruption
women appeared to be at greater risk for application site adverse events. The incidence of applicatio
site reactions seen during clinical trials was confirmed by the first post-marketing data that
a
vailable from the US. Given the severity of the underlying illnesses of the patients included in the 
clinical studies, application site d
isorders are not to be regarded as major safety concerns. 
 are 
; 
n 
1.5  
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
he CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
T
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan which included a risk minimisation plan. However, in 
view of the restricted conditions of use (indication, experienced physicians) and of the w
ri
to healthcare professionals) proposed by the applicant should 
sks of fentanyl, the CHMP did not consider that the risk minimisation measures (educational material 
be mandatory at present. 
ell-known 
The identified potential risks with Effentora in the RMP are: 
•  Misuse, abuse and di
•  Use of Effentora in patients who are not already
version of Effentora 
chronic cancer pain 
•  Unintended (accidental) exposure to Effentora 
 receiving maintenance opioid therapy for 
31/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Misuse, abuse and 
diversion of  
Effentora  
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Expediting will address ADRs 
of special interest, including 
serious ADRs associated with 
suspected overdose, abuse, 
misuse or diversion. 
Additional activities 
Post Marketing Surveillance 
Plan monitoring the safety 
profile. 
Drug utilisation study. 
Use of Effentora in 
patients who are not 
already receiving 
maintenance opioid 
therapy 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Same as above  
Additional activities 
Same as above 
Unintended 
(accidental) exposure 
to Effentora 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Same as above  
Additional activities 
Same as above  
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Routine activities 
Product Information, in particular SPC: 
Section 4.2: “Physicians should keep in mind the 
potential of abuse of fentanyl.” 
Section 4.4: “Tolerance and physical and/or 
psychological dependence may develop upon 
repeated administration of opioids such as 
fentanyl.  However, iatrogenic addiction 
following therapeutic use of opioids is rare.” 
Additional activities 
Information and educational program to 
prescribers  
Routine activities 
Section 4.1: “Effentora is indicated for the 
treatment of breakthrough pain (BTP) in adults 
with cancer who are already receiving 
maintenance opioid therapy for chronic cancer 
pain.” 
And “Patients receiving maintenance opioid 
therapy are those who are taking at least 60 mg 
of oral morphine daily, at least 25 micrograms of 
transdermal fentanyl per hour, at least 30 mg of 
oxycodone daily, at least 8 mg of oral 
hydromorphone daily or an equianalgesic dose 
of another opioid for a week or longer.”  
Section 4.2: “Treatment should be initiated by 
and remain under the guidance of a physician 
experienced in the management of opioid 
therapy in cancer patients.”   
Section 4.3: Patients without maintenance opioid 
therapy (see section 4.1) as there is an increased 
risk of respiratory depression. 
Additional activities 
Communication to Health Care Professionals, to 
include information alerting to the potential risk 
of use in patients not already on opioid 
maintenance therapy. 
Routine activities 
Section 4.2: “The tablet should not be stored 
once removed from the blister package as the 
tablet integrity can not be guaranteed and a risk 
of accidental exposure to a tablet can occur.” 
Section 4.4: “Patients and their carers must be 
instructed that Effentora contains an active 
substance in an amount that can be fatal to a 
child, and therefore to keep all tablets out of the 
reach and sight of children.” 
Additional activities 
Communication to Health Care Professionals, to 
include information alerting to the potential risk 
of accidental exposure 
32/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
1.6   Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
Generally, satisfactory documentation has been provided. The active substance is of compendial 
quality. 
Regarding the finished product, the manufacturing process is adequately described and controlled.  
It should ensure a consistent quality for the product.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Fentanyl is a well-known selective opioid agonist interacting primarily at µ opioid receptors located 
within the central nervous system. Fentanyl possesses analgesic activity with a potency 80-fold higher 
than morphine, but with shorter duration of action as well as sedative effects. 
The safety pharmacology studies confirm the previously known effects of fentanyl on cardiovascular 
parameters (increased systolic blood pressure, reduced heart rate, ECG-changes including slight QTc-
prolongation), CNS (depression) and respiratory system (depression). 
The transmucosal absorption of fentanyl is pH dependant (between pH 5 to 7) and its profile has been 
characterised mainly in humans. Fentanyl is extensively metabolised in all species studied, with 
dealkylation to norfentanyl as a major metabolic pathway mediated by the CYP3A4. 
In acute and repeat dose studies, there was no identified target organ of toxicity and toxic findings 
were mainly related to the expected respiratory depression. 
Fentanyl is not considered to be genotoxic in the standard battery and the carcinogenic potential has 
not been studied, which is acceptable considering the clinical indication in cancer patients. 
Fentanyl is potentially toxic to the reproduction, affecting the embryofoetal survival and fertility in 
animal studies. Teratogenic effects have not been observed. 
The local tolerance is considered to be acceptable. 
No negative impact on the environment is expected under the therapeutic use of this medicinal 
product. 
Efficacy 
In the 2 pivotal, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies, the efficacy of FEBT was shown to be 
consistent, with significant (mostly highly significant) differences from placebo across the range of 
successful doses, across common time points (15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after administration) and 
across all measures, including pain intensity (expressed as pain intensity difference and summed pain 
intensity difference), pain relief, rescue medication usage, and global medication performance. 
Patients receiving FEBT during the double-blind treatment phase were more than three times less 
likely to need rescue medication than patients receiving placebo.  
However, the order of magnitude of the clinical response as effect size at the early time points is rather 
small (although highly significant): Summed pain intensity differences after 30 min (SPID30) were 
between 1.2 and 1.5.  
Except for a small proportion of patients for which duration of BTP is very short, the currently 
proposed dose range of 100 to 800 mcg has been proven to be effective for a large proportion of 
patients. On the other hand, the prolonged BTP episodes in some patients should also be taken into 
consideration, since such patients may well profit from a duration of action (up to 2 hours) that 
exceeds the average BTP periods. 
Overall, the product is nevertheless considered to be at least as efficient as current alternative oral 
treatments when taking into account the time-window of the transient BTP episodes. 
33/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
The safety analysis set for chronic cancer pain comprises 358 patients, and that for noncancer pain 
comprises 740 patients which is considered to be sufficiently large for safety evaluation. Overall, the 
most common adverse events observed with FEBT treatment were characteristic of fentanyl products, 
namely nausea, dizziness, constipation, fatigue, headache, and vomiting. The incidence and types of 
adverse events did not appear to be dose related which, most presumably, is to be explained by the fact 
that each patient was titrated to his individual need for analgesia. Furthermore, the rapid absorption of 
FEBT did not appear to affect the type or severity of adverse events observed.  
Approximately 10% of patients experienced adverse events that could be considered related to tablet 
application site, e.g., application site pain, ulcer, or burning. In the majority of patients, these adverse 
events were mild to moderate and resolved without treatment interruption; women appeared to be at 
greater risk for application site adverse events. The incidence of application site reactions seen during 
clinical trials was confirmed by the first post-marketing data that are available from the US. Given the 
severity  of  the  underlying  illnesses  of  the  patients  included  in  the  clinical  studies,  application  site 
disorders are not to be regarded as major safety concerns. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
The most frequently occurring adverse events (≥10% of patients by preferred term) in this patient 
population were the following: nausea, dizziness, vomiting, fatigue, headache, constipation, 
somnolence, anemia and peripheral edema. Adverse events related to the application site were 
reported for 31 (9%) patients. 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities adequately addressed these.  
User consultation 
Readability testing was conducted by in UK using the English version of the Patient Leaflet of the 100 
mcg strength of Effentora. The protocol was laid out in accordance with Articles 59(3) and 61(1) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC as amended. The test was conducted with 20 volunteer adults between 18 and 
66 years old with an equal split of males and females. 
Acceptable answers to each question were found and understood by a minimum of 80% of subjects 
over two rounds of user testing. Therefore, the Patient Leaflet satisfies the obligations of the relevant 
legislation and guidelines. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Efficacy of Effentora has been demonstrated in two phase III studies and one additional open-label 
continuation study in the treatment of breakthrough pain (BTP) in patients with cancer who are 
already receiving maintenance opioid therapy for chronic cancer pain.  
The pharmacology of fentanyl and its associated efficacy and safety profile has been well established 
after decades of clinical use as intravenous or transdermal dosage forms. The particular absorption 
profile of the fentanyl effervescence buccal tablet technology with an estimated fraction of about 50% 
transmucosal absorption did not raise particular safety concerns during the clinical trials. No 
unexpected trends in serious AEs have been observed in these trials. 
The overall benefit-risk assessment is therefore favourable. The applicant commits to perform a 
number of post authorisation follow- up measures with the objective to monitor the safety profile of 
Effentora and to report back to the CHMP within predefined timeframes. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
34/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(cid:131)  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns: 
o  Misuse, abuse and diversion  
o  Use in patients who are not already receiving maintenance opioid therapy for chronic 
cancer pain 
o  Unintended (accidental) exposure to Effentora 
These activities (see follow-up measures) include a Post Marketing Surveillance Plan 
monitoring the safety profile of Effentora (several studies) and a Drug utilisation study. 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered 24 January 
2008 that the risk-benefit balance of Effentora in the treatment of breakthrough pain (BTP) in adults 
with  cancer  who  are  already  receiving  maintenance  opioid  therapy  for  chronic  cancer  pain,  was 
favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
35/35 
© EMEA 2008 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
