28 January 2021 
EMA/210228/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): fentanyl (transmucosal route of administration) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00001369/202004 
Period covered by the PSUR: 28 April 2017 To: 28 April 2020 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for fentanyl (transmucosal route of 
administration), the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
In view of available data on risk of central sleep apnoea from scientific literature, the PRAC Rapporteur 
considers that a causal relationship between medicinal products containing fentanyl and the risk of 
central sleep apnoea is at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC Rapporteur concluded that the 
product information of fentanyl containing products should be amended accordingly. 
In view of available data on risk of Cheynes Stokes respiration in a context of overdose from 
spontaneous reports including in 2 cases a close temporal relationship and a positive dechallenge, the 
PRAC Rapporteur considers that a causal relationship between medicinal products containing fentanyl 
(transmucosal route of administration) and the risk of Cheynes Stokes respiration in a context of 
overdose is at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC Rapporteur concluded that the product 
information of fentanyl containing products should be amended accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for fentanyl (transmucosal route of administration) the CHMP 
is of the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing fentanyl 
(transmucosal route of administration) is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to the product 
information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/210228/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
