EMA/32703/2016  
EMEA/H/C/000984 
EPAR summary for the public 
Efient 
prasugrel 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Efient. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Efient. 
What is Efient? 
Efient is a medicine that contains the active substance prasugrel. It is available as tablets (5 and 
10 mg). 
What is Efient used for? 
Efient is taken together with aspirin to prevent atherothrombotic events (problems caused by blood 
clots and hardening of the arteries) in patients with acute coronary syndrome who are undergoing 
percutaneous coronary intervention. Acute coronary syndrome is a group of conditions in which blood 
supply in the vessels supplying the heart is interrupted so heart tissue cannot work properly or dies. It 
includes unstable angina (a severe type of chest pain) and heart attack. Percutaneous coronary 
intervention is a procedure used to unblock the blood vessels supplying the heart. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Efient used? 
Efient treatment starts with one 60-mg dose. This is then followed by 10 mg taken once a day, except 
in patients weighing less than 60 kg, who should take 5 mg once a day. Patients taking Efient should 
also take aspirin as prescribed by their doctors. It is recommended that treatment with Efient and 
aspirin continue for up to a year. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The use of Efient is not recommended in patients over 75 years of age, unless the doctor has carefully 
considered its benefits and risks, and regards treatment with Efient as necessary. In this case, the 
5-mg daily dose should be used following a 60-mg starting dose. 
How does Efient work? 
The active substance in Efient, prasugrel, is an inhibitor of platelet aggregation. This means that it 
helps to prevent blood clots from forming. When the blood clots, this is due to special cells in the 
blood, the platelets, sticking together (aggregating). Prasugrel stops the platelets aggregating by 
blocking a substance called ADP from binding to a receptor on their surface. This stops the platelets 
becoming ‘sticky’, reducing the risk of a blood clot forming and helping to prevent a heart attack or a 
stroke. 
How has Efient been studied? 
In one main study Efient, given as a 60-mg starting dose followed by 10-mg ‘maintenance’ doses, was 
compared with clopidogrel (another inhibitor of platelet aggregation), both medicines taken in 
combination with aspirin. The study involved almost 14,000 adults with acute coronary syndrome who 
were about to undergo percutaneous coronary intervention. The main measure of effectiveness was 
the reduction in the total number of cardiovascular deaths (deaths due to problems in the heart or 
blood vessels), heart attacks or strokes. The patients were followed up for an average of 14.5 months. 
What benefit has Efient shown during the studies? 
Efient was more effective than clopidogrel at reducing the total number of cardiovascular deaths, heart 
attacks or strokes. At the end of the study, 9% of the patients taking Efient had died from 
cardiovascular causes or had a heart attack or stroke (643 out of 6,813) compared with 11% of the 
patients taking clopidogrel (781 out of 6,795). 
What is the risk associated with Efient? 
The most common side effects with Efient (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are anaemia 
(low red blood cell counts), haematoma (a collection of blood under the skin or in a muscle), epistaxis 
(nosebleeds), gastrointestinal haemorrhage (bleeding in the stomach or gut), rash, haematuria (blood 
in the urine), bleeding from needle puncture sites, haematoma at puncture sites and bruising. For the 
full list of all side effects reported with Efient, see the package leaflet. 
Efient must not be used in patients who have a condition that causes excessive bleeding, who have 
had a stroke or transient ischaemic attack (a temporary reduction in the blood supply to part of the 
brain), or with severe liver problems. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Efient been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Efient’s benefits are greater than its risks, when given together with aspirin, for 
the prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients with acute coronary syndrome undergoing 
primary or delayed percutaneous coronary intervention. The Committee recommended that Efient be 
given marketing authorisation. 
Efient  
EMA/32703/2016 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Efient? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Efient is used as safely as possible. Based 
on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet for Efient, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
In addition, the company that markets Efient will make sure that educational materials are available in 
all Member States for doctors who will treat patients with the medicine. The materials will include 
information on how to prescribe the medicine safely and to remind doctors that the medicine is not 
recommended for patients over the age of 75 years. 
Other information about Efient 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Efient on 25 February 2009. 
The full EPAR for Efient can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Efient, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2016. 
Efient  
EMA/32703/2016 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
