23 October 2013 
EMA/CHMP/616148/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Efient 
(prasugrel) 
Procedure No. EMA/H/C/000984/A46/0031 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative information 
Invented name of the medicinal product:  Efient 
INN (or common name) of the active 
substance:  
MAH: 
Currently approved Indication 
Prasugrel 
Eli Lilly Nederland BV 
Efient, co-administered with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), 
is indicated for the prevention of  
atherothrombotic events in patients with acute 
coronary syndrome (i.e. unstable angina, non-ST 
segment elevation myocardial infarction [UA/NSTEMI] 
or ST segment elevation myocardial infarction 
[STEMI]) undergoing primary or delayed percutaneous 
coronary intervention (PCI). 
B01AC22 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
Pharmaceutical form and strengths: 
Rapporteur: 
5 and 10 mg film coated tablets 
Jens Heisterberg 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/616148/2013  
Page 2/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
On  29  April  2013,  the  MAH  submitted  a  completed  paediatric  study  for  Efient,  in  accordance  with 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
Scientific discussion 
Information on the development program 
Study H7T-MC-TACX is one of a series of precursor studies, the results of which will inform dosing 
decisions in future studies of prasugrel in children with sickle cell disease.  
Currently, there is an ongoing Phase 3 study with clinical efficacy endpoints investigating prasugrel in 
children with sickle cell disease: 
EudraCT Number: 2012-003837-41 
Sponsor Protocol Number: H7T-MC-TADO 
Sponsor Name: Eli Lilly and Company 
Full Title: a Phase 3, double-blind, randomized, efficacy and safety comparison of prasugrel and 
placebo in pediatric patients with sickle cell disease. 
Medical condition: Efficacy and safety comparison of prasugrel and placebo in pediatric patients with 
sickle cell disease 
Population: Children, adolescents, under 18 
Start Date: 2013-04-15 
Country: GB  
Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
In the study, orally disintegrating tablets (ODT) in mg/kg dosing were administered up to a dose 
producing a device-reported percent inhibition of 50% as measured by the VerifyNow® P2Y12 (VN) 
analysis. The following strengths were administered: 0.2, 0.3, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, and 5.0 mg. The 
tablets were packaged in child-resistant blister packs. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/616148/2013  
Page 3/14 
 
 
 
 
Clinical aspects 
1. 
Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
Study H7T-MC-TACX entitled “An Open-Label, Dose-Ranging Study of Prasugrel in Pediatric Patients 
with Sickle Cell Disease” 
Background 
In the United States (US) it is estimated that over 100,000 people have sickle cell disease (SCD) 
(Sickle Cell Disease Associates of America, Inc, www.sicklecelldisease.org/). SCD is an inherited blood 
disorder in which a less-hydrophilic variant of hemoglobin that polymerizes in low oxygen causing red 
blood cells (RBCs) to assume a sickled shape (HbS) is expressed rather than normal hemoglobin 
(HbA). In patients with SCD, the HbS polymerizes when deoxygenated. This polymerization triggers a 
cascade of events that lead to cellular activation that includes endothelial cells, monocytes, and 
platelets with occlusion of the microvasculature as a consequence. 
A principal complication of SCD is the vaso-occlusive crisis (VOC), also termed “painful crisis” or 
“severe pain episode,” which manifests clinically as pain in various locations and can result in ischemia 
or infarction/necrosis of the affected organ (Serjeant 1997). 
• 
Current treatment for sickle cell disease 
Current pharmacological treatment for SCD consists largely of supportive care during crisis (for 
example, analgesia, or hydration). For adults with SCD, hydroxyurea is approved to reduce the 
frequency of VOC and to reduce the need for blood transfusions (DROXIA package insert, Rev 
04/2010). 
Hydroxyurea increases fetal hemoglobin (HbF), and along with sickle cell genotype, the level of HbF is 
an important determinant of clinical complications with SCD, including VOC, because HbF inhibits 
polymerization of sickle hemoglobin. However, neither hydroxyurea nor any other pharmaceutical 
agent is approved in the US for the treatment of pediatric patients with SCD. In addition, there are 
concerns regarding genotoxicity and carcinogenesis with the long-term use of hydroxyurea (Hankins 
and Aygun 2009). The HUG-KIDS study monitored the safety of hydroxyurea at a maximum tolerated 
dose for 1 year in 52 children aged 5 to 15 years (Kinney et al. 1999). Neutropenia was the most 
common side effect from treatment (5.2%), with the majority of neutropenia toxicities being mild. The 
recent BABY-HUG trial assessed the efficacy and safety of hydroxyurea (20 mg/kg per day) compared 
to placebo for 2 years in 193 patients with SCD aged 9 to 18 months at randomization (Wang et al. 
2011). The only drug-related toxicity finding was mild-to-moderate neutropenia. Although hydroxyurea 
significantly decreased pain compared to placebo in BABY-HUG, more than 60% of the patients treated 
with hydroxyurea had 1 or more pain events. However, after 2 years of treatment, more than 60% of 
the patients treated with hydroxyurea still had 1 or more pain events (Wang et al. 2011). 
The limited pharmacotherapeutic options to reduce the frequency and severity of VOC in patients with 
SCD attests to the medical need that remains to be addressed, especially in the pediatric population. 
There is thus a need for developing safe and effective agents for SCD that would address the unmet 
medical need and provide a significant public health benefit. 
• 
Role of platelets in sickle cell disease 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/616148/2013  
Page 4/14 
 
 
 
 
There is evidence that platelets play a role in sickle cell pathophysiology in general and in VOC 
specifically. Several studies have found elevated markers of platelet activation in both children and 
adults with SCD (Amin et al. 2004; Harbury and Schade 1989; Inwald et al. 2000; Lee et al. 2006; 
Tomer 2004; Wun et al. 1998). These markers were further elevated during VOC. In addition, some 
studies have suggested a benefit of antiplatelet therapy in reducing markers of platelet activation as 
well as the frequency and severity of painful crisis with SCD (Cabannes et al. 1984; Osamo et al. 
1981; Semple et al. 1984). 
• 
Prasugrel in sickle cell disease 
Prasugrel hydrochloride (hereafter referred to as prasugrel), an adenosine diphosphate (ADP) receptor 
antagonist, is an inhibitor of platelet activation and aggregation mediated by the P2Y12 ADP receptor 
(Jakubowski et al. 2007; Niitsu et al. 2005). As ADP plays a central role in platelet activation and 
aggregation (Jakubowski et al. 2007), additional release of ADP during the hyperactive hemolysis of 
sickled red cells in turn induces platelet activation, thus further contributing to vaso-occlusion. Based 
on its mechanism of action, prasugrel may serve as an effective agent to reduce the frequency and 
severity of VOC in patients with SCD. The potential of prasugrel therapy in pediatric patients with VOC 
is of particular interest because of the paucity of other treatment options in children and the prospect 
of preventing future irreversible organ dysfunction, which may be related to multiple cycles of vascular 
occlusion and reperfusion injury. 
Study TAEJ was a Phase 1b open-label, single-center pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics 
(PD) study of prasugrel in 13 healthy adults and 12 adults with SCD. Exposure to prasugrel’s active 
metabolite (Pras-AM) was comparable between healthy adult patients and adult patients with SCD 
across a prasugrel dose range of 5 to 10 mg. Prasugrel was safe and well tolerated when administered 
to adults with SCD for approximately 11 days; specifically, there were no serious adverse events 
(SAEs), study drug discontinuations or hemorrhagic adverse events (AEs). 
Study TAEK was a Phase 2 double-blind, randomized (2:1) comparison of 5-mg prasugrel and placebo 
administered for 30 days in 62 adult patients (41 randomized to prasugrel, 21 randomized to placebo) 
with SCD. With 30 days of treatment, prasugrel was safe and well tolerated in adults with SCD. 
Prasugrel treatment resulted in approximately 33% to 40% platelet inhibition as measured by 
VerifyNow™P2Y12 (VN), suggesting that SCD patients achieved a substantial PD response with 
prasugrel treatment and that VN can measure the platelet inhibitory effects of prasugrel in patients 
with SCD. Pain rate and intensity and biomarkers of platelet activation were numerically decreased in 
adult patients with SCD who were dosed with prasugrel compared to placebo. These studies supported 
initiation of a Phase 2, open-label, PK-PD dose escalation study in pediatric patients aged 2 to <18 
years with SCD (Study H7T-MC-TACX), and results from Study TACX are reported here. 
2. 
Clinical study 
Study number: H7T-MC-TACX 
Title: “An open-label, dose-ranging study of prasugrel in pediatric patients with sickle cell disease” 
Description 
The study is a Phase 2, exploratory, open-label, multi-centre, non-randomized, dose-ranging, PK and 
PD study of prasugrel in pediatric patients with sickle cell disease. It is one of several studies which 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/616148/2013  
Page 5/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were to be conducted as precursors for an ongoing Phase 3 placebo-controlled study with clinical 
efficacy endpoints. The present study was conducted at 8 study centres in 1 country (US). It was 
initiated on 30 November 2011 and had last patient last visit on 01 November 2012. 
Methods 
• 
Objective(s) 
Primary objective: 
To characterize the relationship between prasugrel dose, exposure to prasugrel active metabolite 
(Pras-AM), and platelet inhibition in pediatric patients with sickle cell disease (SCD). 
Secondary objectives: 
• 
Evaluate, in the pediatric SCD population, the adequacy of a correlation model to estimate the 
Pras-AM concentration from the measured concentration(s) of its inactive metabolite(s)  
•  Assess  the  short-term  efficacy,  safety,  and  tolerability  of  prasugrel  in  pediatric  patients  with 
SCD 
• 
Study design 
This was a phase 2 open-label, multicenter, PK and PD study of prasugrel in 33 pediatric patients with 
SCD conducted in 2 parts (Parts A and B).  
Part A was conducted as an open-label adaptive-design trial in which patients received up to 3 single 
doses of prasugrel separated by 14 ± 4 days between each dose. During Part A, the first 2 patients 
received a dose of 0.03 mg/kg, which was expected to be sub-therapeutic. Doses were increased or 
decreased as appropriate, depending on the PD response to previous doses. Approximately 6 weeks 
was required for the interim PK/PD analysis prior to starting Part B.  
In Part B, patients received once-daily maintenance doses of prasugrel over two dosing periods each 
lasting 14 ± 4 days. The initial dose level was 0.08 mg/kg, which was predicted to produce a mean of 
approximately 30% platelet inhibition at steady state based on population PK-PD (Pop PK-PD) 
modeling of data from Part A in conjunction with data from previous studies in the adult ACS 
population. Patients received the initial dose of 0.08 mg/kg at the study site and PD response was 
measured 4 hours later. Based on platelet inhibition for each patient, patients were then assigned to 
receive either 0.08 mg/kg or 0.06 mg/kg for the first dosing period. Study drug was taken at home 
daily thereafter. The second dose level was chosen based on an individual patient’s PD response at 
steady state following the first dosing period. Patients who received 0.08 mg/kg during the first dosing 
period were either up titrated to a 0.12 mg/kg dose level or down titrated to a 0.06 mg/kg dose level 
to target a range of 30 to 50% platelet inhibition for the second dosing period. Patients who received 
0.06 mg/kg during the first dosing period were assigned to 0.08 mg/kg during the second dosing 
period. One patient who was noncompliant during the first dosing period was reassigned to 0.08 mg/kg 
during the second dosing period. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/616148/2013  
Page 6/14 
 
 
 
 
• 
Study population /Sample size 
The study was not powered to evaluate efficacy although this was explored in Part B of the study. 
Approximately 35 patients were to complete the study; approximately 20 patients in Part A and 
approximately 15 patients in Part B. This was expected to provide approximately 60 single-dose 
exposures across approximately 20 patients in Part A (provided each patient received 3 different 
doses), and approximately 30 steady-state exposures across approximately 15 patients in Part B. 
Planned: Approximately 35 patients 
Entered: 33 patients (24 patients in Part A, 18 patients in Part B) 
Treated (at least 1 dose): 33 patients 
Completed: 29 patients 
Inclusion criteria: Patients included males and females with SCD (homozygous sickle cell [HbSS] and 
hemoglobin [HbS] β0 thalassemia genotypes) with a body weight ≥12 kg, and 2 to < 18 years of age 
at  screening.  Patients  ≤16  years  of  age  must  have  had  a  transcranial  Doppler  within  the  last  year. 
Patients on hydroxyurea had to be on a stable dose for the 60 days prior to enrollment without signs of 
hematologic  toxicity  at  screening.  Patients  must  have  had  a  parent/legal  representative  who  was  in 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/616148/2013  
Page 7/14 
 
 
 
 
 
competent  mental  condition  to  provide  written  informed  consent  on  behalf  of  the  study  participant 
before entering the study. 
Exclusion  criteria:  Exclusion  criteria  included  patients  who  had  a  diagnosis  of  vaso-occlusive  crisis 
(VOC)  within  15  days  prior  to  screening,  had  a  concomitant  medical  illness  (for  example,  terminal 
malignancy),  renal  or  liver  dysfunction,  or  an  abnormal  or  conditional transcranial  Doppler  within  the 
last year. Bleeding exclusion criteria included any clinical findings, in the judgment of the investigator, 
associated  with  an  increased  risk  of  bleeding,  recent  surgery  (within  30  days  prior  to  screening),  or 
were scheduled to undergo surgery within the next 60 days. Prior and concomitant therapy exclusion 
criteria  included  packed  RBC  or  whole  blood  transfusion  therapy  within  30  days  prior  to  dosing,  any 
nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) use within 5 days prior to screening, any aspirin, warfarin, 
thienopyridine, or other antiplatelet medication use within 10 days prior to dosing, and anticipated use 
of aspirin, warfarin, thienopyridine, or other antiplatelet medication during the study period. 
• 
Treatments 
During Part A, prasugrel was administered as single doses at each visit by the clinical staff. The first 2 
patients  received  a  dose  of  0.03  mg/kg,  which  was  expected  to  be  sub-therapeutic.  Doses  were 
increased  or  decreased  as  appropriate,  depending  on  the  PD  response  to  previous  doses  in  other 
patients and/or in the same patient. Single dose escalation in Part A was evaluated in a cohort of older 
children  (8  to  <18  years)  before  similar  or  lower  single  doses  were  assessed  in  younger  children. 
Treatment duration during Part A: Up to 3 single doses of prasugrel with 14±4 days between doses. 
In  Part  B,  the  initial  dose  level  was  0.08  mg/kg.  This  dose  was  predicted  to  produce  a  mean  of 
approximately 30% platelet inhibition at steady state based on Pop PK-PD modeling of data from Part 
A  in  conjunction  with  previous  experience  in  the  adult  acute  chest  syndrome  population.  Patients 
received the first dose of 0.08 mg/kg at the study site and PD response was measured 4 hours later. 
Based on platelet inhibition for each patient, patients were then assigned to receive either 0.08 mg/kg 
or 0.06 mg/kg for the first dosing period. Study drug was taken at home daily thereafter. The second 
dose level (initiated on Visit 202 at the study site, and self-administered thereafter until the day before 
Visit  203)  was  chosen  based  on  an  individual  patient’s  PD  response  at  steady  state  following  the 
initial dosing period. All patients were either up titrated to a 0.12-mg/kg dose level or down titrated to 
a 0.06-mg/kg dose level to achieve appropriate level of platelet inhibition. Treatment duration during 
Part B: 20-36 days of treatment and an additional 3 to 5 days for 3 visits after treatment ends. 
The  investigator  or  his/her  designee  was  responsible  for  explaining  the  correct  use  of  the 
investigational agent to the patient and parents/legal representatives, verifying that instructions were 
followed  properly,  maintaining  accurate  records  of  investigational  product  dispensing  and  collection, 
and returning all unused medication to Lilly or its designee at the end of the study. 
The patient and/or parents/legal representatives were instructed to contact the investigator as soon as 
possible if he or she had a complaint or problem with the investigational product so that the situation 
could be assessed.  
Patients completing Part A were not required to participate in Part B of the study. 
• 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic: 
Primary: 
• 
PK:  The  primary  pharmacokinetic  parameter  was  the  area  under  the  Pras-AM  concentration–
time curve through the last sampling time of 4 hours postdose (AUC[0-tlast]) 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/616148/2013  
Page 8/14 
 
 
 
 
• 
PD:  Pharmacodynamic  variables  included  vasodilator-associated  phosphoprotein  (VASP) 
platelet  reactivity  index  (PRI)  and  derived  percent  platelet  inhibition  and  VN  P2Y12  reaction 
units (PRU), derived percent platelet inhibition, and device-reported percent platelet inhibition 
Secondary: 
•  Biomarkers:  Biomarker  parameters  included  platelet-neutrophil  aggregates  (PNA)  and/or 
platelet monocyte aggregates (PMA), soluble CD40 ligand and soluble P-selectin 
Safety: 
Secondary: 
•  Hemorrhagic events requiring medical intervention, treatrment-emergent adverse events 
(TEAEs) and hemorrhagic TEAEs, study drug discontinuation due to AEs or hemorrhagic AEs, 
clinical laboratory results 
Efficacy: 
Secondary: 
•  At Visits 201, 202 and 203, the patient was asked to respond to specific questions related to 
the incidence and severity of their SCD pain 
Bioanalytical: 
Secondary: 
• 
Plasma concentrations of the active metabolite (R138727) were determined using validated 
liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry methods 
• 
Statistical Methods 
Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics: The PK of Pras-AM was analyzed by both noncompartmental 
(NCA) and population methods. Likewise, PK-PD relationships were assessed descriptively and through 
population modeling approaches. Noncompartmental PK analyses (NCA) were conducted using Model 
200 (extravascular dosing), linear-log trapezoidal method, and uniform weighting scheme in WinNonlin 
version 5.3. Descriptive PK-PD, or exposure-response analyses were then performed to assess the 
relationship between Pras AM exposures and clinically relevant measure(s) of platelet inhibition (VN 
and VASP) at 4 hours postdose following single doses in Part A and at steady-state platelet inhibition 
following multiple doses at Visit 202 and Visit 203 in Part B. Relationships were further characterized 
by simple first- and second-order regression curves, where appropriate. 
A mixed model was used to compare the dose effect of each PD and biomarker parameter after 14±4 
days of daily dosing. The subject effect was fit as a random effect and the dose effect as a fixed effect, 
with baseline measurement as a covariate. All PD and biomarker parameters, including changes from 
baseline, were summarized by dose using descriptive statistics. A one-sample t-test was used to test if 
the change from baseline for each dose is significantly different than zero. For Part B, a mixed model 
was used to compare the dose effect of each PD and biomarker parameter after 10 to 18 days of daily 
dosing. PD results were described using ping-pong and box-whisker plots. A listing of each PD 
parameter was created for each part of the study. A sensitivity analysis was performed for Part B to 
assess the effect that treatment compliance has on the PD parameters.  
Safety: Safety endpoints were summarized using descriptive statistics. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/616148/2013  
Page 9/14 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy: In Part B, the responses for each question related to incidence and severity of patients’ pain 
were reported as the percentage of patients answering “yes” and were summarized by dose. A 
summary of each question across doses was done for Part B and presented as the possible 
combinations of responses for a patient at baseline and each dose. The number and percentage of 
each combination was presented. 
Bioanalytical: Metabolites R138727_MP, R106583, and R119251 were analyzed using the validated 
methods 110886. R106583 was also analyzed using the validated method 110938. 
Results 
• 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
In total, 33 patients were enrolled in the study. 24 patients entered Part A, and 18 patients entered 
Part B. 9 patients in Part B had previously participated in Part A. A total of 29 patients were treated 
during the entire planned treatment period. There were 4 drop-outs: In Part A, 1 patient withdrew 
consent and 2 patients discontinued the study prior to their third single dose due to Sponsor decision 
since there were already sufficient data collected in Part A. In Part B, 1 patient discontinued the study 
after Visit 204 due to Sponsor decision because the patient was not able to complete Visit 205 within 
the time frame specified in the protocol. 
• 
Baseline data 
Patient demographics were similar in Part A and Part B. Overall, in Study TACX, 57.6% of patients 
were female; 97.0% were Black or African American and 3.0% were Native Hawaiian or other Pacific 
Islander; 90.9% had HbSS and 9.1% had HbS β0-thalassemia. Body weight ranged from 14.4 to 80.1 
kg. The mean age was 10.58 years (range 4.3-17.9 years). 
The majority of patients had a history of acute chest syndrome (72.7%) and vaso-occlusive crisis 
(72.7%). Thirteen patients (39.4%) had at least 1 pre-existing condition other than sickle cell disease, 
the most common being asthma (n=9; 27.3%). 
Twenty-three patients (95.8%) in Part A and 18 patients (100.0%) in Part B were taking at least 1 
prior or concomitant medication. Hydroxyurea was the most common type of medication reported in 
both Part A (n=15; 62.5%) and Part B (n=13; 72.2 %) One patient (4.2%) received concomitant 
treatment with ketorolac during Part A, and no patients received ketorolac during Part B. 
• 
Efficacy results 
PK-PD: There was minimal platelet inhibition following single doses of prasugrel up to approximately 
0.25 mg/kg in pediatric patients with SCD. PD response increased with single doses above 0.25 mg/kg. 
Exposure to Pras-AM increased with increasing single doses. The single 0.60 mg/kg dose produced 
>50% inhibition by both VN and VASP assays. Greater variability in exposure and in PD response was 
seen at higher doses. 
Steady-state platelet aggregation was reduced following daily prasugrel doses of 0.06 mg/kg, 0.08 
mg/kg, and 0.12 mg/kg in pediatric patients with SCD. In general, individual patient response 
increased with an increase in daily dose. No patient had a steady-state platelet inhibition below 30% at 
the 0.12 mg/kg dose, and only 1 patient had a steady state platelet inhibition above 60% on the 
lowest dose of 0.06 mg/kg. VN derived platelet inhibition was significantly higher and PRU was 
significantly lower in patients given 0.12 mg/kg compared to 0.06 or 0.08 mg/kg. These results 
suggest that with daily prasugrel doses of 0.06 mg/kg, 0.08 mg/kg, and 0.12 mg/kg, a majority of 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/616148/2013  
Page 10/14 
 
 
 
 
pediatric patients with SCD can be titrated to a dose that produces 30 to 60% platelet inhibition at 
steady state.  
Efficacy: There was little change from baseline in the number of patients reporting sickle cell pain, use 
of analgesics, and missing school as a result of sickle cell pain following two weeks of prasugrel 
treatment compared to baseline. However, the study was neither powered nor designed to provide to 
evaluate efficacy, so no conclusion can be made based on these results. 
• 
Safety results 
Safety: No deaths were reported during the study and there were no AEs leading to study drug 
discontinuation. In Part A, there were no hemorrhagic AEs or AEs considered to be related to study 
drug. One event (vessel puncture site pain) was considered possibly related to a study procedure and 
was considered mild in severity. In Part B, there were 3 AEs (epistaxis, eyelid bleeding, and middle ear 
effusion) in 3 patients that were possibly related to study drug. The 3 events were considered mild in 
severity. There were 3 hemorrhagic events in 3 patients that occurred in Part B. All three of these 
events were mild in severity and none required medical intervention. 
A total of 3 SAEs occurred during Part A of the study and 3 SAEs occurred in Part B. All of these events 
were related to the underlying medical condition of SCD and none were deemed to be related to study 
drug by the site investigator. All patients recovered with the exception of the single patient in Part A 
(age 17) who experienced severe sickle cell anemia with crisis. This patient did recover outside the 
reporting period for this study. 
1. 
Discussion on clinical aspects 
The primary aim of Study TACX was to characterize the relationships among prasugrel dose, exposure 
to prasugrel active metabolite (Pras-AM), and platelet inhibition in paediatric patients with sickle cell 
disease (SCD) in order to identify a dose of prasugrel that produces a 30 to 50% platelet inhibition in 
this population. This range of platelet inhibition was selected because it corresponds to the range 
produced by the ticlopidine 500 mg daily dose (Thebault et al 1999) which was studied previously in 
adults with SCD (Cabannes et al 1984) as well as to the range produced by the clopidogrel 0.2 mg/kg 
daily dose that was well tolerated in infants and young children with congenital heart disease (Li et al 
2008, Wessel et al 2010). 
In Part A, single escalating doses resulted in increased exposure and significantly correlated with the 
PD response. Variability in exposure was higher at higher single doses than at lower doses, whereas 
variability in PD response tended to increase with increasing dose to a point, and then decreased as 
platelet inhibition approached its maximum effect. 
In Part B, dose-dependent increases in exposure were observed at the three fixed doses administered. 
Steady-state PD showed considerable inter-patient variability. Following the starting dose of 0.08 
mg/kg, steady state platelet inhibition ranged from 0 to 79%, with only 3 patients (16.7%) achieving 
the target range of 30 to 50% steady state platelet inhibition. Dose increases to 0.12 mg/kg or 
decreases to 0.06 mg/kg, as appropriate, brought more patients within the target range of platelet 
inhibition. No patient failed to meet the minimum PD response of 30% on the 0.12 mg/kg dose, while 
3 of 8 patients (37.5%) exceeded 50% platelet inhibition on the lowest dose of 0.06 mg/kg dose. The 
platelet inhibition levels for 2 of these 3 patients were only slightly above the maximum level at 52% 
and 54%. Only 1 patient exceeded a 60% platelet inhibition on the 0.06 mg/kg prasugrel dose. These 
results suggest that with prasugrel doses of 0.06 mg/kg, 0.08 mg/kg, or 0.12 mg/kg, the target level 
of steady state platelet inhibition can be achieved for most pediatric patients with SCD. Furthermore, 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/616148/2013  
Page 11/14 
 
 
 
 
PD measurements at post-treatment follow up visits suggest that, for each of the doses studied, 
platelet function began to approach baseline levels within 96 hours of the last dose of study drug. 
The variability in steady state platelet inhibition seen in Study TACX precludes identification of a single 
mg/kg prasugrel dose to produce steady state platelet inhibition within the target range of 30 to 50% 
in all patients. A dose titration strategy may be appropriate in future studies to safely identify an 
appropriate dose to achieve targeted platelet inhibition for each individual patient. 
Prasugrel appeared to be safe and well tolerated in paediatric patients with SCD at all 3 daily doses 
administered during this study. No deaths were reported during the study and no AEs led to study drug 
discontinuation. There were 3 SAEs in Part A and 3 SAEs in Part B, all of which were related to the 
underlying medical condition of SCD. In Part A, no haemorrhagic events occurred. In Part B, 3 
haemorrhagic events occurred in 3 patients. None of these haemorrhagic events required medical 
intervention. Two of these events were considered related to study drug by the Study Investigator. 
Both events were classified as mild and the patients recovered. 
Study TACX was not designed to assess efficacy, and due to the short study period and limited sample 
size, no conclusions could be drawn from the pain questionnaire. 
In summary, results of Study TACX indicate that in paediatric patients with SCD: 
• 
Increasing weight-based doses of prasugrel lead to increasing exposures to Pras-AM that, in 
turn, results in increased platelet inhibition. 
•  With a dose-titration strategy, daily dosing at 0.06 mg/kg, 0.08 mg/kg, or 0.12 mg/kg 
prasugrel leads to clinically relevant platelet inhibition at steady state. 
• 
Prasugrel appears to be safe and well tolerated at the single and multiple daily doses 
administered. 
Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
The intention of this study was to assess whether titration of prasugrel to 30-50% platelet inhibition in 
as measured by the VerifyNow® P2Y12 (VN) analysis. The rationale behind this is that during veno-
occlusive crisis (VOC) experienced by sickle cell disease patients an increase in platelet activation is 
seen, and consequently inhibition of platelet activation might contribute to limiting or alleviating VOC.  
In addition, the current treatment of sickle cell disease in adults consists of hydroxyurea which is less 
attractive in children due to concerns regarding possible genotoxicity and carcinogenesis. The results of 
this study will inform dosing decisions in future studies of prasugrel in pediatric populations including 
an ongoing Phase 3 study of prasugrel vs. placebo. The rationale of the present study is considered 
justified. 
The primary objective was to characterize the relationship between prasugrel dose, exposure to 
prasugrel active metabolite (Pras-AM), and platelet inhibition in pediatric patients with sickle cell 
disease. Secondary objectives were to evaluate the adequacy of a correlation model to estimate the 
Pras-AM concentration from the measured concentration(s) of its inactive metabolite(s) and to address 
the short-term efficacy, safety and tolerability of prasugrel in pediatric patients with sickle cell disease. 
The study was not powered to evaluate efficacy so this part of the study was of exploratory interest 
only. The study objectives are regarded relevant as they will contribute valuable knowledge when 
designing future studies of prasugrel in children with sickle cell disease. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/616148/2013  
Page 12/14 
 
 
 
 
 
The study was a Phase 2 study and it was designed as an open-label adaptive-design trial. During Part 
A, single-escalating doses of prasugrel were analysed in the VN analysis, and PK/PD analyses were 
performed. During Part B it was assessed whether maintenance doses titrated to the individual patient 
could keep a steady degree of platelet inhibition of between 30-50%. It is considered justified to use a 
non-randomized, open-label design as the efficacy assessments were of exploratory interest only. 
Since it is well known that patients display large inter-patients variability in response to prasugrel it is 
equally considered justified to assess whether a steady degree of platelet inhibition can be maintained 
in the individual patient when titrated to an individual dose since intra-patient variability might also be 
an issue of concern. 
A total of 33 patients entered the trial (24 in Part A, 18 in Part B) and 29 completed corresponding to a 
drop-out rate of approximately 12%. 2 of the 4 drop-outs discontinued due to a Sponsor decision as 
sufficient data had already been gathered. The drop-out rate is considered sufficiently low to preserve 
credibility of the study results.  
The prasugrel concentrations used in the respective treatment regimens in this study correspond 
approximately to the recommended maintenance dose of prasugrel in adult patients in relation to PCI 
treatment (0.12 mg/kg) or are lower. The dose titration to the individual patient is based on analysis of 
platelet inhibition in the VN analysis which is considered justified.  
In the study, 57.6% of patients were female; 97.0% were Black or African American and 3.0% were 
Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander; 90.9% had HbSS (homozygous sickle cell) and 9.1% had 
HbS β0-thalassemia. Body weight ranged from 14.4 to 80.1 kg. The mean age was 10.58 years 
(range 4.3-17.9 years). The majority of patients had a history of acute chest syndrome (72.7%) and 
vaso-occlusive crisis (72.7%). Thirteen patients (39.4%) had at least 1 pre-existing condition other 
than sickle cell disease, the most common being asthma (n=9; 27.3%). Twenty-three patients 
(95.8%) in Part A and 18 patients (100.0%) in Part B were taking at least 1 prior or concomitant 
medication. Hydroxyurea was the most common type of medication reported in both Part A (n=15; 
62.5%) and Part B (n=13; 72.2 %). The study population is considered representative of children with 
sickle cell disease and it is regarded justified that the results may be extrapolated to other children 
with sickle cell disease. 
PK/PD: 
Regarding PK/PD the study finds minimal platelet inhibition following single doses of prasugrel up to 
approximately 0.25 mg/kg in pediatric patients with SCD while PD response increased with single 
doses above 0.25 mg/kg. Exposure to Pras-AM increased with increasing single doses. The single 0.60 
mg/kg dose produced >50% inhibition by both VN and VASP assays. Greater variability in exposure 
and in PD response was seen at higher doses. These findings are considered plausible and the greater 
variability in exposure and in PD response seen at higher doses is in line with expectations.  
In general, a dose-response relationship in reduction of platelet aggregation was observed with 
increasing doses of prasugrel. No patient had a steady-state platelet inhibition below 30% at the 0.12 
mg/kg dose, and only 1 patient had a steady state platelet inhibition above 60% on the lowest dose of 
0.06 mg/kg. VN derived platelet inhibition was significantly higher and PRU was significantly lower in 
patients given 0.12 mg/kg compared to 0.06 or 0.08 mg/kg. The investigators conclude that these 
results suggest that daily prasugrel doses of 0.06 mg/kg, 0.08 mg/kg, and 0.12 mg/kg, a majority of 
pediatric patients with SCD can be titrated to a dose that produces 30 to 60% platelet inhibition at 
steady state and this is considered reasonable. 
Efficacy: 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/616148/2013  
Page 13/14 
 
 
 
 
Regarding efficacy, only little change from baseline in the number of patients reporting sickle cell pain, 
use of analgesics, and missing school as a result of sickle cell pain following two weeks of prasugrel 
treatment compared to baseline was reported. The investigators state, however, that since the study 
was neither powered nor designed to provide to evaluate efficacy, no conclusion can be made based on 
these results. This conclusion is regarded acceptable. 
Safety: 
No deaths occurred during the study. 
Regarding AEs, no AEs led to study drug discontinuation. In Part A, the rate of AEs was low and they 
were considered mild. In Part B, there were 3 AEs (epistaxis, eyelid bleeding, and middle ear effusion) 
in 3 patients that were possibly related to study drug. The 3 events were considered mild in severity. 
There were 3 hemorrhagic events in 3 patients that occurred in Part B. All three of these events were 
mild in severity and none required medical intervention. 
Regarding SAEs, a total of 3 SAEs occurred during Part A of the study and 3 SAEs occurred in Part B. 
All of these events were related to the underlying medical condition of SCD and none were deemed to 
be related to study drug by the site investigator.  
In general, the rate, nature and degree of AEs and SAEs are considered acceptably low. 
Overall conclusion 
The investigators conclude that overall the results of the present study indicate that in paediatric 
patients with SCD: 
• 
Increasing weight-based doses of prasugrel lead to increasing exposures to Pras-AM that, in 
turn, results in increased platelet inhibition. 
•  With a dose-titration strategy, daily dosing at 0.06 mg/kg, 0.08 mg/kg, or 0.12 mg/kg 
prasugrel leads to clinically relevant platelet inhibition at steady state. 
• 
Prasugrel appears to be safe and well tolerated at the single and multiple daily doses 
administered. 
These conclusions are considered acceptable and justified. The possible therapeutic impact of these 
results must be evaluated in future studies addressing the clinical efficacy of prasugrel in children with 
sickle cell disease. 
Recommendation  
  Fulfilled   
No regulatory action required 
  Not fulfilled 
Additional clarifications requested 
Not applicable 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/CHMP/616148/2013  
Page 14/14 
 
 
 
 
 
