European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.: EMEA/117561/2009 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Efient 
International Nonproprietary Name: prasugrel 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000984 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1  
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 4 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Quality aspects......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................................................. 8 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 18 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 49 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 54 
2/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
1.  BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. submitted on 06 February 2008 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Efient,  through  the  centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (2) (a)  of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised 
procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 25 January 2007.  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
The application submitted is a complete dossier composed of administrative information, complete 
quality data, non-clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: 
Steffen Thirstrup 
Co-Rapporteur: 
Gonzalo Calvo Rojas 
1.2  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 6 February 2008. 
The procedure started on 27 February 2008.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
19  May  2008.  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP 
members on 20 May 2008. 
During the meeting 23-26 June 2008, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 
26 June 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
21 July 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 9 September 2008. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  22-25  September  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  List  of 
Outstanding Issues to be addressed in writing and in an oral explanation by the applicant and in 
addition CHMP agreed on questions to be addressed to a SAG-CVS. 
The applicant submitted the written responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 
16 October 2008. 
During  a  meeting  of  a  SAG  group  on  30  October  2008,  experts  were  convened  to  address 
questions raised by the CHMP. 
During the CHMP meeting on 17-20 November 2008, outstanding issues were addressed by the 
applicant during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
During  the  meeting  on  15-18  December  2008,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting a Marketing Authorisation to Efient on 18 December 2008. The applicant provided the 
letter  of  undertaking  on  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation  on 
16 December 2008. 
3/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
The CHMP opinions were forwarded in all official languages of the European Union, to the 
European Commission, which adopted the corresponding Decision on 25 February 2009. 
2 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1   Introduction 
Platelets play a central role in the pathogenesis of atherothrombosis and in the formation of thrombi 
following coronary angioplasty, with and without stent implantation. Platelets initially adhere at sites 
of vascular injury, atherosclerotic plaque rupture, balloon angioplasty, and stenting. Platelet activation 
following  these  interactions  results  in  the  release  of  ADP,  thromboxane  A2,  and  other  mediators. 
Released  ADP  promotes  platelet  activation  via  the  G-protein  linked  P2Y1  and  P2Y12  purinergic 
receptors  leading  to  further  platelet  activation,  aggregation,  and  other  platelet  functions,  such  as 
platelet  shape  change,  secretion,  and  the  development  of  pro-coagulant  and  pro-inflammatory 
activities. 
Activated platelets are recruited to sites of coronary plaque rupture and intra-arterial stenting, thereby 
forming  aggregates  that  may  lead  to  platelet-rich  thrombi,  vascular  occlusion,  tissue  ischemia,  and 
myocardial  necrosis  in  what  is  collectively  known  as  Acute  Coronary  Syndrome  (ACS).  The  term 
ACS is a pathophysiological continuum progressing from ischemic chest pain with sudden onset and 
worsening  (UA),  to  ischemia  severe  enough  to  cause  irreversible  myocardial  damage  detected  with 
cardiac  biomarkers  without  persistent  ST-segment  elevation  (NSTEMI),  to  total  occlusion  of  the 
culprit  coronary  artery  with  persistent  ST-segment  elevation,  resulting  in  myocardial  necrosis  and 
elevated biomarkers (STEMI). 
ACS  occurs  in  a  diverse  global  population  and  has  a  significant  socioeconomic  impact  as  patients 
require hospitalization, rehabilitation, and often suffer subsequent ischemic events. 
Acute coronary syndromes will likely remain one of the leading causes of hospitalisation worldwide 
due to the increasing prevalence of risk factors for coronary heart disease and the increasing size of the 
aged population. 
Options  for  the  initial  management  of  ACS  include  pharmacotherapy  alone  or  an  early  invasive 
strategy with PCI (with or without coronary stenting) or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) as 
guided by the results of coronary angiography. The current American College of Cardiology/American 
Heart Association (ACC/AHA) and European Society of Cardiology (ESC) guidelines recommend an 
early  invasive  strategy  for  ACS  patients  with  intermediate  to  high-risk  features.  Pharmacotherapy 
includes both anticoagulant and anti-platelet drugs. The current standard of care for patients with ACS 
includes dual anti-platelet therapy with aspirin and thienopyridine in both the acute and chronic phases 
of treatment. This therapy improves outcome in patients with ACS and those undergoing percutaneus 
coronary  intervention  (PCI);  the  high  risk  of  for  early  stent-associated  thrombosis  is  substantially 
reduced  by  dual  antiplatelet  therapy.    Ticlopidine  and  clopidogrel  are  the  two  currently  approved 
thienopyridines. They  are pro-drugs  requiring  in  vivo  metabolism  to  form  the active  metabolite  that 
binds rapidly and irreversibly to platelet P2Y12 receptors, thus inhibiting platelet aggregation mediated 
by  the  P2Y12  receptor.  Clopidogrel  has  largely  replaced  ticlopidine  due  to  its  once-daily  dosing 
regimen, improved tolerability and lowered incidence of adverse hematolgical side effects. 
Several  potential  limitations  of  clopidogrel  therapy  have  been  identified  despite  loading  dose  of 
clopidogrel. This includes marked inter-individual variability in platelet inhibition and relatively slow 
onset of action. An association between thrombotic complications following PCI and poor antiplatelet 
response  to  the  approved  standard  clopidogrel  dosing  regimen  (loading  dose  (LD)  300  mg  and 
maintenance  dose  (MD)  75  mg)  has  been  suggested.  Further,  it  has  been  shown  that  “non-
responsiveness”  to  a  clopidogrel  600  mg  LD  is  a  strong  predictor  of  stent  thrombosis  in  patients 
receiving  drug-eluting  stents,  and  in  addition,  that  residual  platelet  aggregation above  the  median  is 
associated with a 6.7-fold increased risk of major adverse cardiac events (death, myocardial infarction 
and target vessel revascularisation) at 1 month follow-up in patients undergoing elective PCI. 
These observations suggest the possibility that higher and more consistent levels of platelet inhibition 
may improve clinical outcome in patients with ACS undergoing PCI. 
Prasugrel,  a  thienopyridine  adenosine  diphosphate  (ADP)  receptor  antagonist,  is  an  orally 
administered  pro-drug  requiring  in  vivo  metabolism  to  form  the  active  metabolite  (R-138727)  that 
4/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
irreversibly inhibits platelet activation and aggregation mediated by the P2Y12-receptor. Prasugrel has 
a  distinct  chemical  structure  that  permits  efficient  conversion  to  its  active  metabolite  through  rapid 
hydrolysis by carboxylesterases and then by multiple cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes. Once bound, 
a platelet is inhibited for its remaining lifespan. After prasugrel dosing is stopped, a return to baseline 
levels of platelet aggregation will occur as new platelets are formed. The return to baseline typically 
occurs over about 7 to 10 days after treatment is stopped. 
Non-clinical studies indicated that, with respect to inhibiting ex vivo platelet aggregation and in vivo 
thrombus  formation,  prasugrel  was  approximately  10-100-fold  more  potent  than  clopidogrel  and 
ticlopidine,  respectively.  Early  clinical  data  in  healthy  subjects  confirmed  the  greater  platelet 
inhibition  and  more  consistent  response  to  prasugrel  compared  to  clopidogrel.  While  the  active 
metabolites  of  prasugrel  and  clopidogrel  resulted  in  similar  levels  of  platelet  inhibition  in  vitro,  the 
amount  of  each  active  metabolite  generated  in  vivo  was  quite  different,  with  prasugrel  LD  (60  mg) 
resulting in approximately 50-fold greater exposure, on pr. Mg basis, to its active metabolite compared 
to clopidogrel LD of 300 mg. This observation provides a mechanistic basis for the faster, higher and 
more consistent inhibition of platelet aggregation (IPA) observed with prasugrel. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Efient  contains  prasugrel  hydrochloride  as  active  substance.  Prasugrel  is  a  member  of  the 
thienopyridine class of antiplatelet agents. Currently available thienopyridines include clopidogrel and 
ticlopidine. Prasugrel is an orally bioavailable prodrug metabolized to an active adenosine diphosphate 
(ADP) receptor antagonist, which is a potent inhibitor of platelet activation and aggregation mediated 
by the P2Y12 ADP receptor. 
Efient  is  an  immediate  release,  double-arrow  shaped,  film-coated,  debossed  tablet.  Tablets  contain 
either 5  or  10  mg  of  prasugrel  and  different  strengths  are  differentiated  by  size,  film-coating  colour 
and debossing. The tablets are commercially supplied in blister packaging.  
Active Substance 
The INN name of the active substance is prasugrel which is present in the product in the form of the 
hydrochloride  salt.  The  chemical  name  is  5-[(1RS)-2-cyclopropyl-1-(2-fluorophenyl)-2-oxoethyl]-
4,5,6,7-tetrahydrothieno[3,2-c]pyridin-2-yl  acetate  hydrochloride  corresponding  to  the  molecular 
formula C20H20FNO3S•HCl and molecular mass of 409.90 
Prasugrel hydrochloride is white to light brown crystalline solid, slightly hygroscopic and soluble to 
slightly soluble at pH 1-4, very slightly soluble at pH 5 and practically insoluble at pH 6-7. The pKa 
value of prasugrel hydrochloride was 5.1. It shows polymorphism. It is obtained as a racemic mixture; 
therefore, it shows no optical rotation. 
Prasugrel  hydrochloride  is  a  prodrug.  In  aqueous  media,  cleavage  of  the  ester  moiety  forms  the 
hydrolysis  product,  which exists  as  a  mixture  of  diastereomers,  and  which  are  the  precursors  of  the 
active  metabolite. The  hydrochloride  is  used  because  of its  better  hydrolytic  stability  and  because  it 
provides a better solubility at relevant physiological pHs. 
•  Manufacture 
The synthetic route involves 3 steps where production of an intermediate, production of prasugrel free 
base and production of prasugrel hydrochloride consecutively takes place. 
. In-process controls performed are suitable to control the reaction progress. The starting materials are 
considered simple molecules and satisfactory specifications were presented.  
During  development  of  the  drug  substance  manufacturing  process,  quality  attributes  of  the  drug 
substance were evaluated with respect to the drug product manufacturing process and with respect to 
their  impact  on  the  critical  quality  attributes  of  the  drug  product.  This  analysis  resulted  in  the 
identification  of  six  drug  substance  critical  quality  attributes.  The  drug  substance  specification  has 
been established to confirm that the manufacturing process reproducibly and reliably produces a drug 
substance that  meets the  critical  quality  attributes.  Potential  critical  process  parameters (CPPs)  were 
identified by statistical design methods and a mechanistic understanding of the drug substance process. 
5/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All manufacturing steps are thoroughly examined and design spaces have been developed. 
Concerning  the  use  of  concentrated  HCl,  there  is  a  potential  risk  that  acetone  is  converted  into 
diacetone  alcohol and  then  to  mesityl  oxide.  However,  any  level in the final substance is  below the 
LOQ, which is below the limit of toxicological concern. 
The  same  synthetic  route  has  been  used  to  prepare  all  of  the  prasugrel  hydrochloride  salt  used  in 
clinical  and  development  studies  and  it  is  the  synthetic  route  for  commercial  drug  substance 
manufacture. 
•  Specification 
The drug substance specification includes tests for appearance (visual), identification (IR for prasugrel 
selective precipitation for Cl), assay (HPLC), impurities (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), water (Karl 
Fischer), Fineness (sieving) and Specific Surface Area (BET). 
. 
Results for 3 commercial scale batches were provided analyzed by the current analytical methods and 
against the current specifications. The results comply with the specification.  
In addition, results of another numerous historical batches were provided as supportive data. However 
these  batches  were  tested  by  analytical  methodologies  and  against  specifications  that  both  have 
evolved during development. 
•  Stability 
Three pilot batches (50% of full scale) were put on long-term (25°C/ 60%RH) and accelerated (40°C/ 
75%RH) stability testing conditions respectively. In addition results from supporting stability studies 
were presented on another three earlier batches manufactured at both pilot and full scale. However the 
use of different equipment in the manufacture of the pilot and early batches resulted in differences in 
the  chemical  stability  of  the  active  substance  and  therefore  the  equipment  yielding  to  more  stable 
material was chosen.  All these batches have been stored in the proposed market packaging with the 
exception of the supporting stability batches where desiccant was not included. 24 months of stability 
data  were  available  at  the  long-term  storage  condition  of  25°C/60%  RH  for  the  primary  stability 
studies,  up  to  36  months  for  the  supporting  stability  studies  and  six  months  data  under  accelerated 
conditions.  
It was apparent from the results that generally no significant changes are seen neither at 25°C/60% RH 
nor at 40 °C/ 75 %RH except for an impurity which increased, but still within the limit. 
The photostability of prasugrel hydrochloride in the solid state was assessed and results showed that it 
does not need to be protected from light in the solid state.  
Finally stress testing studies have been conducted on prasugrel hydrochloride drug substance in order 
to gain an understanding of its degradation chemistry 
The  conclusion  from  the  stress  degradation,  long  term,  and  accelerated  stability  studies  is  that 
prasugrel  hydrochloride  drug  substance  is  stable  when  packaged  in  the  container  closure  system 
proposed. Prasugrel hydrochloride is susceptible to hydrolysis and therefore contact with water should 
be avoided. The results of these primary stability studies demonstrate that the drug substance is stable 
when  stored  at  room  temperature  in  the  appropriate  packaging  system.  The  data  collected  to  date 
support the proposed retest period. 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Prasugrel hydrochloride is a prodrug. Initial clinical studies were conducted using prasugrel free base 
tablets.  However,  prasugrel  hydrochloride  was  selected  for  commercial  development  based  on  the 
higher solubility of this salt form relative to the free base across the gastrointestinal pH range. Initial 
trials  however  exhibited  undesirable  degradation  product  formation  and  demonstrated  that  the 
hydrochloride salt was more susceptible to hydrolysis than the free base. 
Nevertheless  the  use  of  the  salt  rather  than  the  free  base  was  selected  as  a  result  of  clinical  data 
indicating that the rate and/or extent of absorption of the free base is adversely affected if the patient 
takes  concomitant  medications,  which  increase  gastric  pH.  Above  pH  6,  the  bioavailability  of 
prasugrel  free base  was  substantially  reduced.  Based on  these  results,  it  was  decided to  develop  the 
6/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
prasugrel  hydrochloride  tablet  formulations.  Solubility  determination  results  and  permeability  and 
metabolism information suggest that prasugrel HCl is a BCS class 2 compound. 
Also, a food effect study and a study with a gastric pH modifier were conducted in humans to assess 
the in vivo performance of prasugrel hydrochloride or prasugrel free base tablets.  
As  prasugrel  hydrochloride  is  susceptible  to  both  hydrolytic  and  oxidative  degradation,  the 
formulation,  manufacturing  process,  and  packaging  of  tablets  focused  on  approaches  to  maintain 
product stability. 
An extensive formulation development has been conducted. Design spaces have been defined through 
statistically-designed  and  individual  studies.  Critical  and  non-critical  process  parameters  have  been 
defined. A finished product specification covering all normal parameters has been set up. The quality 
features are provided in prasugrel hydrochloride tablets using the concepts and elements of Quality by 
Design  with  risk  assessment  and  risk  mitigation  in  order  to  ensure  that  key  product  attributes  were 
defined at an early stage. 
The choice and function of the excipients in the formulation was based on the need for excipients that 
have  the  smallest  possible  impact  on  the  degradation  of  the  drug  substance  in  formulation  and  the 
physical properties necessary for the manufacturing process. 
During  development,  core  tablet  strengths  ranging  from  5  mg  to  15  mg  were  developed  that  are 
qualitatively identical and quantitatively vary only in the percent w/w drug loading with concomitant 
adjustment  of  the  diluent,  the  percentage  of  the  other  excipients  in  the  core  tablet  are  identical.  A 
standard film coating is applied to produce tablets of uniform colour.  
A  number  of  studies  were  conducted  to  determine  formulation  robustness  of  the  process  and  the 
formulation. Dissolution is affected by pH and decreases with increasing pH.  
Clinical  studies  have  demonstrated  that  tablet  performance  is  not  affected  by  formation  of  the  free 
base over a range of 5%-70% conversion. AUC and Cmax of the active metabolite were bioequivalent 
after 1 hour. 
A  reaction  between  prasugrel  HCl  and  an  excipient  was  observed  late  in  the  development  studies 
during manufacture and storage. This reaction leads to a partial and irreversible formation of prasugrel 
free base in the tablets. Analysing the samples used for clinical phase 3 study indicated that salt-to-
base formation of at least up to 70% had no clinical impact and a requirement has been included in the 
finished product specification. 
Due  to  prasugrel  hydrochloride  susceptibility  to  hydrolytic  and  oxidative  degradation  a  dry 
manufacturing  process  was  selected.  Extensive  experiments  have  been  conducted  to  ensure  a  robust 
manufacturing process through design spaces. This has been used to set up the process controls for the 
production batches.. The container has been chosen to minimize humidity and to provide the necessary 
oxygen protection through out the shelf life of the product. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
None  of  the  excipients  are  animal-sourced,  thus  eliminating  any  risk  of  TSE  contamination  in  the 
tablet formulation. The film-coating colour mixture utilizes a single animal-sourced excipient, lactose 
monohydrate. The source of the lactose complies with regulations to ensure patient safety.  
•  Manufacture of the Product 
A dry manufacturing process is utilised for the manufacture of Efient comprising the following steps: 
blending,  dry  granulation,  blending,  compression,  coating  and  drying  of  tablets,  packaging.  The 
manufacturing process is sufficiently described and in-process controls are adequate. 
Validation  data  on  three  commercial-scale  5  mg  batches  and  three  commercial-scale  10  mg  batches 
provided satisfactory reassurance for the reproducibility and consistency of the manufacturing process. 
•  Product Specification 
The  specifications  of the  drug  product at  release and shelf-life include  tests for appearance (visual), 
identity (IR), assay (HPLC), uniformity of dosage units (Ph.Eur.), degradation products (HPLC), dye 
identity test (not routinely), dissolution (Ph.Eur.), tablet form conversion (XRPD).  
Batch results are provided for commercial scale batches and clinical trials batches. The results comply 
with the specification, confirm consistency of the product and support the acceptance criteria.  
7/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability studies have been conducted according to ICH guidances.   
Three production scale batches of 5 mg tablets have been stored at 25ºC/60% RH for 12 months, at 
30ºC/75% RH, for 12 months and at 40ºC/75% RH for 6 months in the proposed market packaging.  
Another  three  production  scale  batches  of  10  mg  tablets  have  been  stored  at  25ºC/60%  RH  for  18 
months, at 30ºC/65% RH, for 18 months and at 40ºC/75% RH for 6 months in the proposed market 
packaging. 
Bulk simulator samples of both 5 and 10 mg tablets were also stored at 25°C/60% RH and at 5°C for 
12 months, at 40°C/75% RH for 1 month and at -20°C for 1 month. 
Additionally a supporting study for the 10 mg tablets stored in blisters was presented. 
Stability results indicate that all tested parameters remain within the specification limits. Degradation 
products levels tend to increase but comply with the individual specification requirements at long term 
conditions throughout 24 months (statistically).  
Photostability:  A  production  scale  batch  of  each  strength  was  tested  according  to  ICHQ1B.  It  is 
concluded  from  the  results  that  no  special  precautions  are  required  since  the  blister  provides  the 
necessary protection and the product is to be labelled to be kept in the original package.  
Stress  testing:  A  production  scale  batch  of  each  strength  was  used  for  stress  testing  together  with  a 
placebo.. It was found that the prasugrel in the tablets degraded with exposure to heat and moisture, 
particularly  in  an  ambient  oxygen  environment.  Prasugrel  does  not  degrade  significantly  with 
exposure to simulated sunlight. 
Tablet Form Conversion: Primary stability samples were analyzed for the level of prasugrel free base 
after  storage  in  both  bulk  and  commercial  packages.    The  conversion  of  prasugrel  hydrochloride  to 
prasugrel  free  base  is  primarily  due  to  exposure  to  moisture.    .  However  the  present  manufacturing 
method is shown to provide the necessary protection against moisture. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  quality  of  Efient  film-coated  tablet  is  adequately  established.  Information  on  development, 
manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  has  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The 
quality of the active substance is considered sufficiently described and adequately supported by data. 
Sufficient  chemical  and  pharmaceutical  documentation  relating  to  development,  manufacture  and 
control  of  the  drug  product  has  been  presented.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance.  
Stability  tests  indicate  that  the  product  under  ICH  guidelines  conditions  is  chemically  stable  for  the 
proposed shelf life. 
2.3  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Prasugrel  belongs  to  the  thienopyridine  class  of  prodrugs  and  is  inactive  in  vitro.  Initial  studies 
required dosing animals with prasugrel with subsequent blood collection to look for in vivo activation 
as reflected in ex vivo pharmacodynamics measurements. Once the ex vivo evidence for the activation 
of prasugrel in vivo was established, subsequent studies addressed the potential activity of prasugrel in 
disease models of target indications (thrombosis). Prasugrel administration resulted in prolongation of 
the bleeding time as did clopidogrel and ticlopidine as it was seen in a model of haemostasis.  
Consistent  with  differing  mechanisms  of  action,  co-administration  of  aspirin 
showed 
additive/synergistic interaction in studies of both thrombosis and haemostasis. Having established the 
in  vivo  activity  of  prasugrel  in  disease  models  reflecting  the  clinical  target  indication,  studies  were 
performed to characterize the activities of the active metabolite of prasugrel by in vitro studies. 
8/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The rationale for the non clinical development and application for marketing approval of prasugrel is 
considered  well established.  The  extent  and  scope of  the  documentation  provided  are  appropriate  to 
characterise the non clinical profile of the product. 
The  following  guidelines  were  considered:  Note  for  guidance  on  safety  pharmacology  studies  for 
human pharmaceuticals (CPMP/ICH/539/00), Note for Guidance on Toxicokinetics: the assessment of 
systemic  exposure  in  toxicity  studies  (CPMP/ICH/384/95),    Non-clinical  guideline  on  drug-induced 
hepatotoxicity  (CHMP/SWP/150115/2006),  Note  for  Guidance  on  carcinogenicity:  testing  for 
carcinogenicity  of  pharmaceuticals  (CPMP/ICH/299/95),  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  detection  of 
toxicity  to  reproduction  for  medicinal  products  and  toxicity  to  male  fertility  (CPMP/ICH/386/95), 
Guideline on risk assessment of medicinal products on human reproduction and lactation: from data to 
labelling  (EMEA/CHMP/203927/05),  and  Guidance  on  the  Environmental  risk  assessment  of 
medicinal products for human use (CHMP/SWP/4447/00). 
The  analytical  method  validation  study  in  beagle  dogs  for  the  pharmacokinetics  of  prasugrel  active 
metabolite was conducted in compliance with the GLP guidelines.  
The safety pharmacology studies provide an evaluation of the safety pharmacology of prasugrel and 
meet  the  standards  for  general  pharmacology  studies  in  effect  at  the  time  of  their  conduct.  This  is 
considered acceptable by the CHMP. All pivotal toxicity studies were conducted in compliance with 
GLP regulations. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
 In ex vivo studies with rats, dogs, and cynomolgus monkeys, prasugrel demonstrated dose-dependent 
inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation. Unless indicated otherwise, platelet function studies 
were  performed  using  light  transmission  aggregometry  (LTA),  which  monitors  the  increase  in  light 
transmission in stirred suspensions of platelets in citrated plasma (platelet-rich plasma, PRP) as they 
aggregate in response to activation with agonists such as ADP. ADP is a natural ligand for the target 
receptor  (P2Y12)  of  the  thienopyridine  class  of  oral  antiplatelet  agents  (ticlopidine,  clopidogrel,  and 
prasugrel). 
The selectivity of prasugrel for antagonism of ADP-induced platelet aggregation was demonstrated by 
the  lesser  inhibition  of  aggregation  achieved  with  thrombin  vs  ADP  in  platelets  under  ex  vivo 
conditions. Prasugrel’s inhibitory effects were maintained after washing of the platelets, showing an 
irreversible platelet inhibition. Studies in rats compared prasugrel’s potency with that of clopidogrel 
and  indicated  a  faster  onset  of  action,  since  prasugrel  (1-10  mg/kg,  p.o.)  caused  dose-dependent 
inhibition of platelet aggregation at 0.5 hr after dosing with an ED50 value of 4.2 mg/kg, suggesting an 
early  onset  of action.  In  contrast,  clopidogrel (10-100  mg/kg,  p.o)  showed  moderate  effect  at  0.5  hr 
(ED50  >  100  mg/kg).  The  maximum  effect  of  both  prasugrel  and  clopidogrel  were  observed  at  4  hr 
after  administration;  the  ED50  values  being  1.1  mg/kg  (p.o.)  and  15  mg/kg  (p.o.),  for  prasugrel  and 
clopidogrel,  respectively.  The  inhibitory  effects  of  prasugrel  (1-  3  mg/kg)  and  clopidogrel  (10-30 
mg/kg) were long-lasting, and these inhibitions completely disappeared at 96 hr after administration. 
The ex vivo effects of prasugrel on platelet aggregation in male cynomolgus monkeys assessed as the 
ADP  (10µM)-induced  platelet  aggregation  in  platelet-rich  before  and  after  oral  administration  of 
prasugrel showed that prasugrel (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg/day) given orally once a day for 14 days inhibited 
platelet aggregation in a dose-dependent manner. The inhibitory effect reached a plateau on days 3 to 
5,  suggesting  cumulative  effects  of  prasugrel,  and  was  maintained  during  the  administration  of 
prasugrel  after reaching  the  maximal  effect. The  effects slowly  declined  after  cessation  of  prasugrel 
administration. There were no significant inhibitions of platelet aggregation on the 7th day after the 
final dose of prasugrel (day 21). These results indicate that repeatedly administered prasugrel exhibits 
a potent and long-lasting antiplatelet effect. 
Inhibitory effects of 14 day lasting repeated administration of prasugrel (0.03-0.3 mg/kg/day, p.o.) on 
platelet aggregation in the beagle dog were investigated. The ADP (8µM)-induced platelet aggregation 
9/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
measurements showed inhibitory effects of prasugrel (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg/day) reaching plateau on day 
3. After cessation of administration, inhibition of platelet aggregation gradually decreased.  
The  in  vivo  effects  of  prasugrel  were  assessed  in  various  non  clinical  pathophysiological  models  of 
thrombotic challenge:  
- The arterio-venous shunt model  
- The electrical injury model 
- The stroke model  
- The pathophysiological model of peripheral artery disease  
- The bleeding time model  
In  the  rat  arterio-venous  shunt  model,  prasugrel  reduced  thrombus  formation  in  a  dose-dependent 
manner.  Similarly,  prasugrel  prolonged  the  time  to  occlusion  and  increased  the  patency  in  the 
electrical  injury  model  of  arterial  thrombosis  in  a  dose-dependent  way.  The  cumulative  inhibitory 
nature  of  repeat  dosing  with  thienopyridines  was  demonstrated  using  the  same  model  during  a 
repeated 3 day dosing regimen. Treatment with prasugrel resulted in a dose-dependent reduction of the 
incidence, total area, and the number of cerebral infarcts in a model of embolic cerebral infarction in 
the  rat,  while  clopidogrel  had  lower  activity.  In  a  model  of  peripheral  arterial  disease  whereby 
injection of lauric acid into the rat femoral artery produces endothelial injury, platelet adhesion, and 
platelet  aggregation,  prasugrel  dose-dependently  inhibited  progression  of  the  lesions.  Prasugrel  also 
caused a prolongation of bleeding time in a tail transaction model in rat. 
Prasugrel contains a chiral centre and thus, exists as two individual enantiomers: the R-enantiomer (R-
96875) and the S-enantiomer (R-96876). The platelet inhibitory effects of the individual enantiomers 
were evaluated following the oral administration to both, rats and monkeys, and following single oral 
administration  of  the  prasugrel’s  individual  enantiomers  to  beagle  dogs.  Additional  in  vitro  studies 
were conducted in order to evaluate the effects on platelet aggregation. 
Oral  administration  of  R-96875  and  R-96876  (both  at  1  and  3  mg/kg)  to  rats  dose-dependently 
inhibited  platelet  aggregation  at  2  and  4  hr  after  dosing,  respectively.  There  were  no  statistically 
significant  differences in  the  efficacy  between  R-96875  and  R-96876  at the  same  dosage.  The  ED50 
values at 4 hr after dosing were 1.4 mg/kg for R-96875 and 1.3 mg/kg for R-96876. Effects of a 3 day 
repeated  administration  of  R-96875  and  R-96876  (both  at  0.3  mg/kg/day,  p.o.)  on  ADP-induced 
platelet  aggregation  using  platelet-rich  plasma  were  also  examined  in  cynomolgus  monkeys.  The 
wash-out  periods  between  the  two  treatments  was  considered  acceptable.  Both  isomers  caused 
inhibition of platelet aggregation on day 3, and this effect was almost equal between the groups. There 
were no statistically significant differences in the efficacy between R-96875 and R-96876 at any point. 
These results indicate that oral administrations of optical isomers of prasugrel, R- 96875 and R-96876, 
exert a similar extent of ex vivo effect on platelet aggregation in rats and in cynomolgus monkeys.  
The active metabolite R-138727 has two chiral centres, resulting in four enantiomers. Metabolite R-
138727 has potent and selective P2Y12 antagonistic activity. The two most potent enantiomers of R-
138727,  the  R-125690  and  R-125689,  are  about  100-  and  10-fold  more  potent  than  enantiomers  R-
125687 and R-125688, respectively.  The two most potent enantiomers comprised the majority of the 
circulating R-138727 in rats and humans. 
In pharmacodynamic mechanistic studies, the active metabolite of prasugrel, R-99224, affected P2Y12-
specific  biomarkers,  including  alpha  granule  release,  fibrinogen  binding,  and  restoration  of  ADP-
induced  reduction  of  PGE1-  induced  elevation  cAMP.  In  contrast,  P2Y1  biomarkers  (platelet  shape 
change,  Ca2+  mobilisation)  were  unaffected  by  pre-incubation  of  platelets  with  prasugrel’s  active 
metabolite. This  confirms  that the  inhibition of the  platelet  aggregation  by  prasugrel  is  mediated  by 
P2Y12 receptors. The pharmacological effects are most probably dependant on the production of the 
active metabolites of prasugrel. 
Inhibitory  effects  of  orally  administered  optical  isomers  of  prasugrel  on  platelet  aggregation 
investigated in beagle dogs was measured as the platelet aggregation induced by ADP (8 µM) at 2 and 
4  hr  post  dosing.  There  were  no  significant  differences  in  baseline  values  of  platelet  aggregation 
10/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
among  all  groups.  In  the  control  group,  there  were  no  obvious  changes  in  aggregation  after  vehicle 
administration.  In  contrast,  each  isomer  (0.1-1  mg/kg,  p.o.)  inhibited  platelet  aggregation  in  a  dose-
dependent manner. There were no statistically significant differences in platelet aggregation at 2 and 4 
hr  post  dose  between  the  two  isomers  at  corresponding  doses.  In  addition,  ED50  values  for  the  two 
isomers  were  similar  at  2  and  4  hr  post  dose.  These  results  show  that  an  oral  administration  of  the 
optical  isomers  of  prasugrel  produces  anti-platelet  effects  of  similar  potency  in  beagle  dogs.  This 
pharmacodynamic study supports the use of racemic prasugrel, since all four enantiomers are formed 
as was shown in a pharmacokinetic study in dogs. 
In general, the ex vivo studies with rats, dogs, and cynomolgus monkeys demonstrated dose-dependent 
inhibition  of  ADP-induced  platelet  aggregation  by  prasugrel.  Studies  in  rats  also  demonstrated 
prasugrel’s potency compared to clopidogrel and suggested a faster onset of action. The selectivity of 
prasugrel antagonism of ADP-induced platelet aggregation was demonstrated by the lesser inhibition 
of  aggregation  achieved  with  thrombin  vs  ADP  in  platelets  ex  vivo.  The  inhibitory  effect  was 
maintained after washing of the platelets, showing an irreversible platelet inhibition. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
No  secondary  pharmacodynamic  studies  were  made  on  binding  and  activity  to  other  proteins  than 
P2Y12  and  P2Y1  and  the  secondary  pharmacology  data  were  derived  from  the  results  of  the  safety 
pharmacology studies. The effects observed in these in vitro safety studies occur at a concentration at 
least more than 10-fold higher than the maximum therapeutic concentration observed in humans. Both, 
the  non  clinical  in  vivo  studies  and  clinical  studies,  did  not  provide  any  evidence  for  unexpected 
secondary  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  prasugrel.  Thus,  further  studies  are  deemed  unnecessary. 
Nevertheless,  the  results  of  a  screening  of  prasugrel  and  its  metabolite  M1  in  a  standard  battery  of 
receptor binding assays were requested by the CHMP. Thus, M1 and prasugrel were tested in a battery 
of  receptor  binding  assays.  Neither  prasugrel  nor  M1  showed  affinity  for  the  tested  receptor  at 
concentrations up to 10 µM.  
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Assessments  of  in  vivo  activity  of  prasugrel  included  evaluation  of  cardiovascular,  central  nervous 
system (CNS), respiratory, renal, and gastrointestinal (GI) functioning in rodents or dogs.  
Effects  on  the  GI  and  CNS  occurred  at  high  doses  of  prasugrel.  At  an  oral  dose  of  100  mg/kg, 
prasugrel  produced  a  significant  decrease  in  paradoxical  sleep  in  rats,  without  altering  the  total 
percentage of time spent sleeping. Increased sensitivity to touch was observed in rats at the 300 mg/kg 
oral  dose.  Other  CNS  endpoints,  including  body  temperature,  clinical  observations,  precipitated 
seizure  thresholds,  spontaneous  activity,  and  thiopental-induced  sleep  times,  were  not  altered 
following administration of single oral doses of prasugrel up to 300 mg/kg. Examination of the effects 
on  autonomic  nervous  system  and  smooth  muscle  showed  that  prasugrel  inhibited  spontaneous 
movement of isolated rabbit ileum at 1x10-4 g/ml and inhibited the amplitude and increased frequency 
of spontaneous motility of isolated pregnant rat uterus. Prasugrel at 1x10-5 g/ml significantly inhibited 
acetylcholine-, histamine- and serotonin induced contractions in isolated guinea pig ileum. 
The potential for prasugrel to inhibit cardiac repolarisation was evaluated by examining the effect of 
three  prasugrel  metabolites  on  potassium  currents  in  hERG-transfected  cells.  The  metabolites  R-
138727  and  R-106583  were  evaluated  because  these  are  the  active  and  the  most  abundant  inactive 
human  metabolites,  respectively,  and  R-95913  was  evaluated  because  it  is  the  intermediary  step 
between  prasugrel  and  the  active  metabolite.  No  significant  effects  on  the  potassium  currents  in 
hERG-transfected CHO-K1 cells were observed at up to the highest concentrations tested (30 µM for 
R106583  and  R138727;  15  µM  for  R-95913)  which  were  greater  than  approximately  485  times  the 
expected free Cmax values of the three metabolites following a clinical loading dose of 60 mg prasugrel. 
Therefore, the hERG data for prasugrel metabolites do not suggest a potential impact of prasugrel on 
cardiac  repolarisation  due  to  inhibition  of  potassium  currents.  Prasugrel  (30  and  100  mg/kg,  ID) 
showed no major effects on heart rate, blood pressure, respiration rate, carotid blood flow, or pressure 
response to  acetylcholine, norepinephrine  or  bilateral  carotid  occlusion  in  the  anesthetised  dogs.  No 
effects  on  QT  interval  were  observed  in  quantitative  electrocardiograms  evaluated  in  the  3  and  9 
11/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
month repeat dose studies in dogs at doses approximately nine times the 60 mg clinical loading dose 
calculated as mg/m2.  
Prasugrel  produced  a  decreased  gastric  acid  content  and  gastric  volume  at  100  mg/kg  in  rats. 
Furthermore, prasugrel decreased gastric emptying in mice when given for 3 days at the dose of 300 
mg/kg. However, the doses at which these effects occurred were ≥14 times the 60 mg clinical loading 
dose calculated as mg/m2. Prasugrel (10-100 mg/kg, p.o.) had no effects on urinary volume, excretion 
of electrolytes or osmotic pressure in rats. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Thienopyridine antiplatelet agents are commonly used in combination with aspirin as “dual antiplatelet 
therapy”. The use of the combination is based on the alternative receptor/signalling pathways that each 
of these agents inhibits and the additive, or synergistic, platelet inhibitory effects that results from co-
administration. Pharmacodynamic studies were conducted with the combination of prasugrel/aspirin. 
An  additional  study  involved  co-administration  of  other  drugs,  in  which  the  comparisons  of  the 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of prasugrel base and hydrochloride salt were made in the 
presence of the proton pump inhibitor lansoprazole. 
The  additive  activity  of  prasugrel  and  aspirin  has  been  demonstrated  in  several  studies  of  platelet 
aggregation (ex vivo) in rats and dogs, thrombus formation (in vivo) in rats, and bleeding time in rats. 
Consistent with these findings, in vitro studies with blood from human volunteers demonstrated that a 
combination of R-138727 and aspirin has additive effects on collagen-induced platelet aggregation.  
The antiplatelet effects of two tablet formulations of prasugrel, the free base tablet and hydrochloride 
salt  tablet,  were  compared  in  beagle  dogs  pretreated  with  lansoprazole,  a  proton  pump  inhibitor. 
Plasma  concentrations  of  prasugrel  metabolites  at  1  hr  post  dosing  were  not  significantly  different 
from those of the free base tablet and hydrochloride salt tablet given to dogs. These results suggest that 
the  free  base  tablet  and  hydrochloride  salt  tablet  have  similar  antiplatelet  potency  in  lansoprazole-
treated dogs. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion profile of prasugrel was investigated in mice, rats, 
and dogs, which are also the species used in the toxicological evaluation of the compound.  Analytical 
methodology  evolved  adequately.    In  initial  pharmacokinetic  and  absorption  studies,  some  inactive 
metabolites of prasugrel were measured and their pharmacokinetic parameters used as indicators of the 
absorption and metabolism of prasugrel.  A number of new metabolites were quantified and a method 
for determination of prasugrel’s active metabolite concentrations in plasma was ultimately developed.  
Most  studies  were  conducted  following  oral  administration,  the  intended  clinical  route  of 
administration.  
Prasugrel is rapidly absorbed in all species including humans; Tmax of the active metabolite R-138727 
is less than 1 hour.  Prasugrel itself was not detected in plasma after oral administration. The decline of 
prasugrel  related  radioactivity  was  biphasic  in  rats  and  dogs.  The  radioactivity  terminal  elimination 
half-life  seemed  to  be  similar in  mice  and  rats,  approximately  24  h,  but  it is  considerably  longer  in 
dogs,  approximately  3  days.  In  humans,  the  average  terminal  elimination  half-life  of  the  active 
metabolite  R-138727  was  approximately  7  hours.  Approximately  21%  of  a  [14C]-prasugrel  dose  is 
excreted in human faeces within 48 hours. The pharmacokinetic studies have only been conducted in 
male  animals.  However,  no  apparent  sex  differences  were  observed  during  the  repeat-dose  toxicity 
studies.  Following  single  oral  doses  of  prasugrel  base  or  prasugrel  hydrochloride,  the  exposure  to 
prasugrel  metabolites  was  evaluated  in  the  mouse,  rat,  and  dog.  Exposure  parameters  to  prasugrel 
metabolites were higher for prasugrel hydrochloride compared with prasugrel base at doses of ≥500 
mg/kg in the rat and at 100 mg/kg in the dog. Tissue distribution of radioactivity related to prasugrel 
was  studied  in  rats  following  single  and  repeated  oral  administration.  Radioactivity  was  widely  and 
rapidly  distributed  throughout  the  body.  The  radioactivity  concentration  was  highest  in  most  tissues 
involved  in  the  absorption  and  elimination  of  the  compound  and  its  metabolites,  i.e.,  stomach, 
intestines, liver, kidney and urinary bladder. Prasugrel distributed to the bone marrow of rats with a 
12/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tissue-to-plasma ratio of less than 0.5. Following repeated daily dosing, accumulation consistent with 
the elimination half-life of prasugrel was observed in most organs. After a single oral dose of 5 mg/kg 
14C-prasugrel to rats on Day 13 of pregnancy, the fetal concentration of prasugrel radioactivity was 
0.27 times that in maternal blood 1 hour after administration and declined thereafter, suggesting low 
placental transfer of prasugrel or its metabolites.  Due to instability of the active metabolites R-138727 
in plasma, the protein binding was only investigated in human serum albumin, where the metabolite 
was highly bound by 98% and the species differences in protein binding of the active metabolites R-
138727 were not assessed.  The protein binding of the inactive metabolites R-100932, R-106583 and 
R-95913  was  similar  in  rats,  dogs  and  humans  (>80%)  while  the  protein  binding  of  the  inactive 
metabolite  R-119251  was  significantly  lower  in  dogs  (26-36%)  as  compared  to  rats  (71-77%)  and 
humans  (76-77%).  Prasugrel  was  extensively  metabolised  in  all  species.  A  total  of  eighteen 
metabolites were identified in human plasma. Based on a mean radioactivity above 10%, the following 
major metabolites could be identified: diastereomers of M1, M2 (R-95913) and M5 (R-106583). The 
metabolites of prasugrel found in human plasma, urine and faeces were also detected in mouse, rat and 
dog; the only exception being M16, which was only identified in the mouse. M16 is M10 conjugated 
to glucuronic acid and M10 was found in all species. Furthermore, the extent of formation of a given 
metabolite varied significantly by species. Metabolite M1 was formed in large amounts in humans and 
was detected in animal plasma, but quantification was not conducted in animals due to co-eluting of 
the  radioactive  peaks.  Metabolites  M2,  M5,  M7  and  M14  were  also  formed  in  larger  amounts  in 
humans as compared to the animal species.  
In  dogs,  the  hydrolysis  of  prasugrel  led  to  a  formation  of  essentially  equal  amounts  of  the  four 
enantiomers of R-95913. All enantiomers of the active metabolite R-138727 were generated from R-
95913.  The  R-125690  and  R-125689  enantiomers  accounted  for  approximately  50-64%  of  the  R-
138727 in dog plasma and >99% in  rat plasma. The CHMP also inquired about levels in mice and 
rabbits.  It was shown that all tested animal species were exposed to the most potent of enantiomers of 
R-138727,  R-125690  and  R-125689,  at  concentrations  significantly  higher  than  those  observed  in 
humans and thus, adequate margins of safety could be assured. Also, all animal species were exposed 
to the least potent of R-138727 enantiomers at concentrations higher than those in humans, with the 
exception of the rat as R-125687 and R-125688 concentrations could not be quantified.   
Considering  that  isomers  can  have  different  or  even  antagonistic  effects  towards  the  same  receptor 
system, these opposite effects might occur in species are capable of forming all four enantiomers of R-
138727.  Nevertheless, in  the  course  of several  studies  of the antagonistic  profile  of the enantiomers 
using light transmission aggregometry, no evidence of agonistic activity was noted between R-125690 
and R-125689 isomers of R-138727.  
When administered at high doses (≥100 mg/kg) to rats, prasugrel induced CYP450 enzymes (CYP2B 
and  CYP3A2)  and  phase  II  metabolizing  enzymes  UDP-glucuronosyltransferase  and  glutathione-
S-transferase, however, based on the in vitro non clinical study with human hepatocytes, this induction 
is  not  observed  in  humans.  Furthermore,  the  AUC  for  each  measured  metabolite  decreased  after 
multiple dosing compared with the values obtained after the first dose in mice at ≥100 mg/kg/day, in 
rats at 100 and 300 mg/kg/day, and in dogs at 20 mg/kg/day (after 20 weeks of dosing and beyond). 
However,  the  exposure  data  in  dogs  administered  prasugrel  at  20  mg/kg  for  one  month  were 
essentially unchanged. In the nine month study with dogs, the AUC data for two of the metabolites R-
100932  and  R-106583  decreased  after  20  weeks  of  dosing,  while  the  AUC  values  of  the  other 
metabolite, R-95913 were higher in dogs dosed with prasugrel at 20 mg/kg. Thus, the data show some 
auto-induction  of  prasugrel’s  metabolism  at  the  20-mg/kg  dose  in  dogs.  Since  induction  was  not 
observed  either  in  vitro  or  in  vivo  in  humans  and  the  non-clinical  data  suggest  that  induction  of 
CYP3A4  due  to  administration  of  prasugrel  is  unlikely  at  clinically  relevant  plasma  concentrations, 
this is not considered a major issue. 
In  mice,  90%  of the dose was  excreted during  the  first  24  hours  post  dosing  mainly  via the urinary 
elimination route. In rats and dogs, the majority of the radioactivity (>90%) was excreted within the 
first 72 hours of dosing in faeces presumably via bile. Approximately 20% of the dose was excreted 
via  urine.  Radioactivity  related  to  prasugrel  was  also  detected  in  milk  of  lactating  rats  at 
13/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
concentrations up to approximately five times higher than the plasma level. However, the radioactivity 
from milk (T½=9.5 h) was eliminated more rapidly than that from the plasma (T½ approximately 24 h).  
No pharmacokinetic drug interactions studies were conducted in animals and this was justified with 
the sufficient evaluation of pharmacokinetic drug interactions in a clinical setting.  
Toxicology 
The  toxicological  and  toxicokinetic  profile  of  prasugrel  was  investigated  in  a  comprehensive 
programme,  including  studies  on  systemic  toxicity  after  single  and  repeat  dose  administration, 
reproductive toxicity studies, genotoxicity studies as well as studies addressing specific issues, such as 
antigenicity,  phototoxicity, toxicity of impurities, dermal and ocular irritation. 
Prasugrel  base  was  used  during  the  major  part  of  the  toxicology  program.  However,  a  change  was 
made to the hydrochloride salt of prasugrel later in development. Repeat dose studies comparing the 
base and the hydrochloride salt of prasugrel were conducted in mice with two week duration and rats 
and dogs with one month duration. A single dose comparison study was conducted in rats. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single dose toxicity studies following the oral administration were conducted in rats and mice at doses 
up to 2000 mg/kg. Clinical observations in female rats given 2000 mg/kg included some non-specific 
signs of irregular respiration, reduced locomotor activity, ptosis, lacrimation, and staggering gait. In a 
comparison single dose rat study of prasugrel base vs prasugrel hydrochloride, no deaths occurred at 
doses of prasugrel base up to 2000 mg/kg, while 3 out of 5 males and 4 out of 5 females administered 
2000 mg/kg prasugrel hydrochloride died. Systemic exposure to prasugrel metabolites in the prasugrel 
hydrochloride  group  was  1.2  to  3.5  times  higher  than  that  of  the  prasugrel  base  group  and  this 
difference is believed to account for the difference in mortality. In an escalating dose study in beagle 
dogs, platelet aggregation was inhibited, consistent with the pharmacological action of the compound. 
Emesis  was  observed  after  administration  at  doses  ≥300  mg/kg,  and  serum  ALP  was  increased 
following  the  2000  mg/kg  dose.  Slight  hepatocellular  atrophy  and  ground  glass  appearance  of 
hepatocellular cytoplasm were also observed in these dogs. Data from mice, rat and dog showed that 
prasugrel has low acute toxicity. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeat  dose  studies  of  up to  three, six,  and  nine  months in  duration  were  conducted  with  prasugrel 
administered  orally  to  mice,  rats, and  dogs.  In  most  of  these  studies  prasugrel base  was  used  as  the 
tested  compound.  Bridging  studies  comparing  the  toxicity  of  prasugrel  base  and  prasugrel 
hydrochloride were conducted in each species.  
Mortality, decreased body weight, and anaemia were observed in mice at repeated administration of a 
dose  of  1000  mg/kg  prasugrel.  Anaemia  was  attributed  to  subclinical  blood  loss  rather  than  to 
haematopoietic  suppression,  since  an  increase  in  the  reticulocyte  ratio  was  also  observed,  and  there 
were  no  histologic  effects  on  bone  marrow.  Liver  was  the  primary  target  organ  and  increased  liver 
weight and hypertrophy of centrilobular hepatocytes most likely due to induction of drug metabolising 
enzymes were observed. In the two week study, increased ALT and AST activity and the single cell 
necrosis indicated toxic effects on liver at a 2000 mg/kg dose of prasugrel, which was also lethal. The 
maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of prasugrel in mice was considered to be 300 mg/kg. Similar effects 
were observed in a fourteen day bridging study conducted in mice to compare the toxicity of prasugrel 
base and prasugrel hydrochloride. Some effects, e.g. the decreased erythrocytic parameters and liver 
histopathology findings, were more apparent in the prasugrel hydrochloride group.  
No animals died during the studies in which rats were administered 0, 10, 30, 100, and 300 mg/kg of 
prasugrel orally for 3 months. Body weights decreased relative to control by 10% and 6% for males 
and  females,  respectively,  in  the  300  mg/kg  group.  Platelet  counts  increased  in  males  given  ≥100 
mg/kg  and  in  females  given  300  mg/kg.  Prothrombin  times  in  males  and  activated  partial 
thromboplastin  times  were  prolonged  in  rats  receiving  ≥100  mg/kg.  Evidence  of  enzyme  induction 
included increased liver weight, hypertrophy, and acidophilic cytoplasm of hepatocytes, in male rats 
14/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
given ≥100 mg/kg and female rats given 300 mg/kg. The enzyme induction effects and alterations in 
coagulation  parameters  were  considered  compensatory  and  pharmacologic  in  nature  and  thus  not 
adverse.  
Administration  of  similar  doses  of  prasugrel  orally  for  6  months  did  not  result  in  any  deaths  and 
similar blood effects were observed at higher doses. Clinical chemistry effects included decreased total 
cholesterol in males of the 300 mg/kg group, decreased triglycerides in males of the 100 mg/kg and 
slight  decrease  in  potassium  and  chloride  in  females  of  the  300  mg/kg  group.  These  changes  were 
attributed  to  decreased  food  consumption.  Increased  total  bilirubin,  total  protein  and  β-globulin  and 
albumin were thought to be caused by the acceleration of protein synthesis in the liver accompanying 
induction  of  drug  metabolizing  enzymes.  An  increase  in  calcium  was  observed  in  both  sexes  given 
doses ≥100 mg/kg and was considered to be due to the increase in serum protein and the consequent 
increase  in  protein  bound  calcium.  Liver  weight  increase  was  noted.  Histopathological  examination 
revealed hypertrophy of the hepatocytes and are consistent with the occurrence of enzyme induction. 
Other  changes  included  decreased  thymus  weight  in  females  of  the  100  and  300  mg/kg  groups, 
decreased prostate weight in the 100 and 300 mg/kg groups, and decreased uterine weight in the 300 
mg/kg  group.  These  were  all  slight  changes  without  accompanying  histopathological  changes.  The 
NOAEL of prasugrel in this study was 30 mg/kg. 
Prasugrel  base  and  prasugrel  hydrochloride  were  administered  daily  for  28  days  to  rats  to  examine 
their differences in toxicity. Prasugrel hydrochloride was administered at dose levels of 0, 30, 100, and 
300 mg/kg, and prasugrel base was administered at 300 mg/kg. Decreased body weight gain associated 
with decreased food consumption was recorded in females at 100 mg/kg and in males and females at 
300  mg/kg  with  prasugrel  hydrochloride.  Administration  of  prasugrel  hydrochloride  was  associated 
with a tendency toward decreased erythrocyte parameters in males and females at 300 mg/kg and an 
increase  in  reticulocyte  percentage  in  females  at  300  mg/kg.  Platelet  count,  activated  partial 
thromboplastin time, and fibrinogen were also increased. Anomalous levels of triglycerides, glucose, 
potassium, chloride, calcium, total protein, albumin, α2-globulin and ß-globulin were observed. These 
findings  were  comparable  at  300  mg/kg  between  prasugrel  hydrochloride  and  prasugrel  base.  The 
observed increase in liver weight, thought to be caused by an induction of drug metabolizing enzymes, 
was observed in males at 30 mg/kg and in males and females at 100 mg/kg and above in the prasugrel 
hydrochloride group and at 300 mg/kg in the prasugrel base group. Macroscopic examination revealed 
dark  discoloration  of  the  liver  in  males  and  females  at  300  mg/kg  for  both  compounds,  and 
histopathological  examination  revealed  hypertrophy  of  hepatocytes  at  each  dose  level  for  both 
compounds.  The  quantitative  differences in  exposure  parameters  and toxicological findings  between 
prasugrel base and hydrochloride were discussed by the CHMP, especially in terms of the choice of 
the  compound  for  the  long  term  toxicological  studies.  It  was,  however,  justified  that  the  observed 
differences  in  animals  treated  with  prasugrel  hydrochloride  or  prasugrel  base  were  not  indicative  of 
qualitative differences in toxicologic responses. The comparability of the pharmacokinetic and toxicity 
profiles between the base and the salt in bridging studies up to one month in duration in mice, rats, and 
dogs supported the appropriateness of using the salt for long term toxicology studies. 
Beagle  dogs  were  administered  0,  0.8,  4,  or  20  mg/kg  of  prasugrel  orally  for  3  and  9  months.  In 
animals  receiving  4  mg/kg  or  more,  hypertrophy  of  hepatocytes  accompanied  by  the  ground  glass 
appearance  of  cytoplasm  was  observed.  Animals  receiving  20  mg/kg  showed  increased  alkaline 
phosphatase  activities  and  electron  microscopic  examination  revealed  a  slight  proliferation  of  the 
smooth endoplasmic reticulum in hepatocytes. These changes were considered to be due to activation 
of  drug  metabolism  enzymes  induced  by  administration  of  prasugrel.  Decreased  total  cholesterol 
levels occurred in animals receiving 20 mg/kg.  
An  oral  toxicity  study  to  compare  the  toxicities  of  prasugrel  base  and  prasugrel  hydrochloride  was 
conducted in which the compounds were administered orally once daily for 28 days. There were no 
compound  related  clinical  signs  or  effects  on  body  weight,  food  consumption,  ophthalmology, 
electrocardiography, urinalysis, haematology, or gross pathology. Elevation of ALP activity occurred 
in  males  and  females  of  the  groups  at  100  mg/kg  prasugrel  hydrochloride  and  100  mg/kg  prasugrel 
base. The increases in alkaline phosphatase levels occurred earlier and were more pronounced in the 
female  dogs  treated  with  100  mg/kg  prasugrel  hydrochloride  than  in  female  dogs  given  100  mg/kg 
15/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
prasugrel  base.  The  histopathological  examination  revealed  lamellar  inclusion  bodies  in  the 
hepatocellular cytoplasm after administration of prasugrel hydrochloride. Hypertrophy of hepatocytes 
was observed with both compounds and was attributed to the induction of drug metabolizing enzymes. 
Slight  hypertrophy  of  the  thyroid  follicular  epithelia  was  observed  in  a  male  dog  given  100  mg/kg 
prasugrel base. The changes observed in the thyroids were secondary to the accelerated metabolism of 
thyroid hormones due to elevated hepatic drug metabolizing enzymes. 
The  histopathological  liver  alterations  and  the  serum  hepatic  enzymes  changes  were  observed 
continuously throughout the repeat dose toxicity studies in mice, rats and dogs. The CHMP’s concern 
regarding  these  findings,  their  relevance  for  prediction  of  human  hepatotoxicity,  especially 
considering  that  induction  of  CYPP450  is  not  observed  in  humans,  and  the  overall  potential 
hepatotoxicity  of  thienopyridines  was  appropriately  addressed.  Despite  the  lack  of    evidence  for 
hepatotoxicity, hepatotoxicity is identified as a precautionary approach as a Potential Risk in the Risk 
Management Plan (RMP) and is subject to a range of surveillance activities. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Prasugrel did not exhibit genotoxic properties when tested in a battery of standard in vitro (Ames and 
chromosome aberration) and in vivo (mouse micronucleus) assays. However, the CHMP requested the 
information  concerning  the  purity  of  the  tested  batches  and  specifically,  the  impurity  levels  in  the 
batches with regards to the genotoxicity tests. In response, the impurity level in the batches used for 
the  pivotal  toxicity  studies  were  characterised  based  on  an  analysis  of  the  actual  amount  of  the 
impurities in the administered doses at the NOAEL. Sufficient levels have been achieved. In case of 
MFTP  and  PFTP,  the  level  of  impurities  in  the  lots  used  for  the  in  vitro  genotoxicity  studies  are 
regarded as sufficient for qualification at the proposed specifications (0.20% and 0.15%, respectively). 
Although  the  proposed  specification  for  OHTP  (0.20%)  cannot  be  deemed  qualified  by  the  in  vitro 
genotoxicity studies, the margins of safety for the in vivo micronucleus study are significantly high to 
qualify  the  proposed  specification  for  OHTP  (>57  based  on  mg/m2  and  a  prasugrel  salt  vs  base 
exposure  ratio  of  3.5).  Thus,  OHTP,  MFTP,  and  PFTP  are  considered  qualified  at  the  proposed 
specification. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
Studies conducted over 24 months with mice at doses up to 300 mg/kg and rats with doses up to 100 
mg/kg aimed at the assessment of the carcinogenic potential of prasugrel. When treated with prasugrel 
hydrochloride,  mice  developed  adenomas  of  the  liver,  but  not  carcinomas.  In  view  of  the  lack  of 
genotoxicity,  the  increase  in  mice  tumours  was  assumed  to  be  caused  by  the  adaptive  enzyme 
induction  response.  The  mice  are  prone  to  developing  tumours  under  such  circumstances  and  the 
mechanism is unlikely to be relevant for humans. Furthermore, hepatocellular hypertrophy, thought to 
be the result of microsomal enzyme induction, but no tumour induction was observed in the rat study. 
The increase in liver tumours in mice administered prasugrel is not considered to be a relevant human 
risk and this is adequately reflected in the proposed prescribing information. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Fertility, early embryonic development and peri- and postnatal toxicity were assessed in studies with 
rats  and  embryo-fœtal  development  in  studies  in  rats  and  rabbits.  In  rats  prasugrel  did  not  exhibit 
toxicity on fertility and early embryonic development. In rabbits and rats prasugrel did not show signs 
of embryo-foetal toxicity. Prenatal and postnatal development, including maternal function in rats was 
not affected by exposure to prasugrel. The SPC adequately reflects these findings. The CHMP noted a 
reduction in mean adrenal gland, seminal vesicle/prostate gland, and combined epididymis weights at 
prasugrel  doses  of  300  mg/kg/day  in  the  fertility  rat  study.  There  were  no  treatment-related 
histopathologic changes in these tissues in the 3- and 6-month rat studies and no effects in the dogs, 
except  one  early  two  week  pilot  study,  in  which  atrophy  of  seminiferous  epithelium  in  testes  with 
slight-to-moderate nature was observed at high doses. This observation in dogs was comparable with 
the historic controls and did not appear in rats. Further evaluation of the data confirmed there were no 
effects  on  fertility,  sperm  count  and  sperm  motility  in  rats.  Overall,  no  reproductive  risk  could  be 
concluded.  
16/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Toxicokinetic data 
Toxicokinetic  data  were  collected  from  repeated  dose  studies  in  mice,  rats  and  beagle  dogs.  Safety 
margins based on plasma drug exposures were determined for the active metabolite R-138727 and for 
R-106583 in the relevant studies.  In addition, safety margins based on administered dose/body surface 
area have also been determined (please see Pharmacokinetics). 
•  Local tolerance  
No  study  on  local  tolerance  was  performed.  This  is  considered  acceptable  since  prasugrel  is 
administered  orally.  However,  exposure  of  the  skin  or  the  eyes  to  prasugrel  may  occur  during  the 
manufacturing process. Two irritation tests were conducted in rabbits. In the hazard evaluation studies 
conducted in New Zealand white rabbits, prasugrel was a mild ocular irritant and its administration to 
the conjunctival sac of rabbits resulted in iritis and conjunctivitis, which resolved within 24 hours and 
seven  days  after  the  treatment,  respectively.  Prasugrel  did  not  cause  dermal  irritation  following  a 
single application of 1000 mg/kg to the skin of rabbits. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Antigenicity 
Prasugrel was tested for antigenicity in mice and guinea pig. Based on the results obtained from these 
tests, prasugrel is not expected to be antigenic.  
Immunotoxicity 
No specific tests for immunotoxicity were conducted and this was justified by the results of standard 
toxicity tests or based on pharmacologic properties of the compounds. It was argued that the available 
clinical  safety  data  did  not  reveal  any  prasugrel  related  hypersensitivity  reactions  or  suggest  any 
increase in infection in the prasugrel vs clopidogrel treatment groups. There is no direct link between 
prasugrel  and  allergic  reactions,  but  due  to  the  fact  that  other  thienopyridines  have  been  associated 
with allergic reactions, these have been identified as potential risks in the RMP and are subject to a 
range of surveillance activities. 
Phototoxicity 
Distribution studies showed that prasugrel metabolites are distributed to the skin and eye ball in levels 
of  1/10  of  the  plasma  concentration  after  single  exposure,  with  some  potential  to  accumulate  after 
repeated  dosing.  The  phototoxic  potentials  of  R-138727  and  R-106583  were  evaluated  in  vitro 
examining  the  uptake  of  Neutral  Red  in  the  presence  or  absence  of  light  using  Balb/c  3T3  cells  of 
mouse fibroblast cell line in the range of 290-700  nm. For R-138727, the Photo Irritation Factor (PIF) 
was below 2 (i.e. non-phototoxic). For R-106583, the PIF was not determined because the cell survival 
was >50%, with or without irradiation and indicated no remarkable cytotoxicity up to the maximum 
concentration of 1000 µg/mL. Nevertheless, R-138727 was determined as “probably phototoxic” in a 
second  study  employing  the  same  dose  range  and  experimental  design,  with  a  PIF  of  >2  (i.e.,  PIF 
4.31).  R-106583  was  negative.  According  to  the  Note  for  guidance  on  phototoxicity  testing 
(CPMP/SWP/398/01) it was not shown that prasugrel and/or its metabolites are not phototoxic and the 
CHMP raised a question on this issue. In response, it was shown that other non-clinical and clinical 
data  indicate  that    evidence  of  the  phototoxic  potential  of  prasugrel  is  weak  and  of  questionable 
clinical relevance. Nevertheless, phototoxicity was included as a potential risk in the RMP. The lack of 
photoallergy  and  photogenotoxicity  is  acceptable  in  light  of  the  weak  evidence  of  the  phototoxic 
potential. 
Studies on impurities 
The potential toxicities of most of the prasugrel impurities were evaluated as part of the non clinical 
toxicology studies. All impurities above 0.15 % were qualified either by separate genotoxocity studies 
and a 14-day repeat dose study or toxicological studies. Based on the studies, the overall specifications 
for impurities CATP and diketone were considered justified from a toxicological perspective.   
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Environmental  chemistry,  fate  and  effects  data  were  collected  for  prasugrel  as  recommended  in  the 
for  human  use 
Guideline 
risk  assessment  of  medicinal  products 
for  environmental 
17/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(CHMP/SWP/4447/00).    The  Phase  I  estimate  of  maximum  exposure  to  all  prasugrel  residue  in 
surface water predicted an exposure above the 0.01 µg/L and thus, a complete risk assessment (Phase 
II  Tier  A) according  to the  current  guideline  has  been  conducted.  No likely  risk  has  been  identified 
with regard to aquatic organisms in either ground water or surface water, neither for sediment dwelling 
organisms. 
2.4  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
This  full  application  concerns  centralised  procedure  in  accordance  with  the  Regulation  (EC)  No 
726/2004, Article 3(2)(a). It is submitted in accordance with Article 8(3) in Directive 2001/83/EC for 
a  new  active  substance.  Conditional  approval,  an  approval  under  exceptional  circumstances  or  an 
accelerated review are not requested 
Prasugrel is an inhibitor of platelet activation and aggregation through the irreversible binding of its 
active  metabolite to  the  P2Y12  class  of  ADP  receptors  on  platelets.  Since platelets  participate in  the 
initiation and/or evolution of thrombotic complications of atherosclerotic disease, inhibition of platelet 
function  can  result  in  the  reduction  of  the  rate  of  cardiovascular  events  such  as  death,  myocardial 
infarction, or stroke.  
The approved indication is: 
EFIENT,  co-administered  with  acetylsalicylic  acid  (ASA),  is  indicated  for  the  prevention  of 
atherothrombotic  events  in  patients  with  acute  coronary  syndrome  (i.e.  unstable  angina,  non-ST 
segment  elevation  myocardial  infarction  [UA/NSTEMI]  or  ST  segment  elevation  myocardial 
infarction [STEMI]) undergoing primary or delayed percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). 
Scientific advice for the product was requested from the CHMP in 2004. The given advice concerned, 
among  others,  the  population  included  in  the  clinical  development  programme  and  the  number  of 
studies to be conducted, choice of a comparator and clinical endpoints in the clinical studies, use of 
aspirin  as  co-therapy  or  monitoring  of  safety  of  patients.  It  is  claimed  that  the  relevant  scientific 
guidelines were followed. 
There  is  no  paediatric  development  programme.  According  to  the  European  legislation  valid  at  the 
time of submission, there was no need to submit a paediatric investigation plan before July 2008. 
At  the  time  of  submission,  the  prasugrel  clinical  development  program  consisted  of  46  completed 
placebo-controlled  or  active-comparator  (clopidogrel)  controlled  studies.  In  the  majority  of  studies, 
subjects were randomly assigned, in an open-label or blinded fashion, to treatment using either parallel 
or crossover designs. Across all studies, 8656 subjects received at least one dose of prasugrel.  
18/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of the key studies in the prasugrel clinical development program. 
GCP 
As claimed by the applicant, clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP. A statement to 
the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were carried out in accordance with the 
ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC was also provided.  The assessment of the clinical data did 
not raise concerns about their compliance with GCP. No inspection was requested.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Prasugrel  is  administered  as  a  racemic  prodrug  that  is  metabolized  in  vivo  to  the  active  moiety,  R- 
138727, which irreversibly binds to the platelet P2Y12 receptor and blocks activation and aggregation 
induced by the P2Y12 agonist adenosine diphosphate (ADP). The R-138727 metabolite is formed very 
rapidly during first-pass metabolism.  
The pharmacokinetics of prasugrel’s active metabolite (R-138727) in healthy subjects was assessed in 
various clinical pharmacology studies by conventional non-compartmental methods and by population 
analysis. A meta-analysis of non-compartmental pharmacokinetics estimates from 16 phase 1 studies 
consolidated exposure estimates from 506 healthy male and female subjects and evaluated the effect of 
specific subject factors on exposure to the active metabolite. 
19/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Formulation development 
Prasugrel  development  began  with  prasugrel  base,  which  was  used  in  the  earlier  studies  in  healthy 
subjects  and  subjects  with  stable  atherosclerosis.  Decision  to  switch  to  prasugrel  hydrochloride  was 
made  after  study  TAAC  showed  that  the  Cmax  and  AUC  of  prasugrel’s  inactive  metabolites  were 
greatly  reduced  when  prasugrel  base  was  given  to  healthy  subjects  whose  gastric  pH  was  >6  at  the 
time  of  dosing. This  was believed  to  be  of  a  potential  consideration  for  patients  taking  concomitant 
treatment with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) or H2-receptor antagonists, which also raise gastric pH. 
Because the solubility of prasugrel hydrochloride is higher than that of prasugrel base at higher pH, 
switching  from  the  base  to  the  hydrochloride  salt  might  lessen  the  impact  of  elevated  gastric  pH  in 
patients  taking  PPIs  and  H2-receptor  antagonists.  Formulation  strategy  for  the  hydrochloride  salt  of 
prasugrel focused on developing an immediate-release tablet for oral administration. Initially, a 10-mg 
tablet was developed, which is to be used for both, the 60-mg loading dose (LD) and the daily 10-mg 
maintenance  dose  (MD).  Later  a  5-mg  tablet  was  developed  to  provide  increased  dosing  flexibility. 
The proposed commercial 10-mg tablet formulation was used in the pivotal, phase 3 study TAAL, and 
thus, no bioequivalence study was performed. 
•  Absorption  
Prasugrel  is  rapidly  absorbed  after  oral  administration  and  is  not  detected  in  plasma.  However, 
prasugrel’s active metabolite (R-138727) appears in plasma rapidly after the oral dosing, reaching a 
peak concentration (Cmax) in about 30 minutes and declining bi-phasically with a terminal half life of 
approximately 7.4 hours. The average Cmax of active metabolite is 475 ng/ml after a 60-mg LD and 70 
ng/mL during 10-mg MD. The time to reach the maximum plasma concentration (tmax) is at a median 
of 0.5 hours. It was estimated that approximately 79% of a prasugrel dose is absorbed. The between-
subject  and  within-subject  variability  is  27.6%  and  19.3%,  respectively,  for  active  metabolite  AUC, 
and 30.1% and 38.1% respectively, for active metabolite Cmax. 
It  was  found  that  two  5-mg  prasugrel  hydrochloride  tablets  were  bioequivalent  with  one  10-mg 
prasugrel  hydrochloride  tablet.  During  tablet  manufacturing  and  storage,  prasugrel  hydrochloride 
tablets can convert to prasugrel base. The conversion from salt to base up to 70% has no impact on the 
extension and rate of the bioavailability of prasugrel at normal gastric pH, and furthermore, as study 
TACR confirmed, a 5 to 70% conversion of prasugrel hydrochloride tablets to prasugrel base did not 
affect the AUC or Cmax of R-138727 in healthy subjects with normal gastric pH. There is a procedure 
in place with the aim of controlling the conversion and keeping it within this rate. The influence of 
food was assessed with a 25 mg and 15 mg dose of prasugrel. One of the effect of food on R-138727 
AUC was the lower absorption rate, with Cmax being 48.8% lower in the fed state, tmax delayed from 
0.5 to 1.5 hours. Although an important pharmacokinetic parameter during maintenance dose is AUC, 
Cmax  is  considered  relevant  in  patients  who  receive  a  loading  dose  in  order  to  achieve  a  more  rapid 
onset of the pharmacological effect. Although the percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is usually 
performed  in  the  fasted  state,  it  is  necessary  to  point  out  the  importance  of  the  administration  of 
prasugrel loading dose in fasted state in the SPC. The CHMP thus proposed to revise the SPC wording 
to reflect that the onset of action of the loading dose may be most rapid in the fasted sate and this new 
wording was accepted. 
•  Distribution 
Estimates  of  apparent  volume  of  distribution  of  R-138727  ranged  between  40.3-66.4  l  in  healthy 
subjects  and  subjects  with  stable  atherosclerosis.  Prasugrel  metabolites  demonstrated  limited 
penetration  into  red  blood cells  and the  plasma-to-whole  blood  ratio  was  generally  greater  than  one 
suggesting  that  radioactivity  in  the  plasma  was  greater  than  that  in  an  equivalent  volume  of  blood 
cells. Because R-138727 is unstable in plasma, its binding to plasma proteins could not be determined. 
However, in a 4% human serum albumin solution in phosphate buffer at pH 7.4, R-138727 was 98% 
bound.  For  the  inactive  metabolites,  the  fraction  bound  to  plasma  proteins  at  various  concentrations 
determined  by  ultracentrifugation,  was  94.6%  for  R-95913,  95.1%  for  R-106583,  and  76.4%  for  R-
119251. Thus,  the active  metabolite  is  highly  bound  to  protein  and  the  measured  concentration  will 
depend  on  the  protein  content,  which  may  be  influenced  by  factors  such  as  renal  function,  age  and 
concomitant medication. However, only a minor fraction is unbound and this is not likely to change 
20/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
significantly. Although the total concentration of the active  metabolite might be lower, the effect of 
the drug may be similar patients with renal failure to that found in healthy persons. 
•  Elimination 
Prasugrel  is  in  vivo  rapidly  hydrolysed  by  esterases  and  the  product  of  this  hydrolysis,  the 
pharmacologically  inactive  thiolactone  R-95913,  is  metabolised  to  the  active  metabolite  R-138727 
mainly by cytochrome P450 CYP3A and CYP2B6, and, to a lesser extent, by CYP2C9 and CYP2C19. 
R-138727  is  further  metabolised  to  two  inactive  compounds  by  S-methylation  or  conjugation  with 
cysteine  (R-119251  and  R-106583).  Other  prasugrel  metabolites  are  formed  by  oxidation  and/or 
conjugation and are not pharmacologically active. In case of the active metabolite R-138727, which is 
eliminated by S-methylation and conjugation with cystein, it is unclear which enzyme is involved in 
the elimination of the active metabolite. The CHMP was concerned about the clinical relevance of this 
issue and requested further clarifications. Based on the in vitro study, it would appear that thiopurine 
S-methyltransferase (TPMT)  is  not  responsible  for  the  S-methylation  of  R-138727  to  R-106583  and 
that  the  S-methylation  appeared  mainly  in  human  liver  microsomes.  Formation  of  R-106583  was 
inhibited by an inhibitor of thiol S-methyltransferase (TMT). The results thus suggest that TMT, and 
not TPMT, is responsible for R-106583 formation from prasugrel’s active metabolite in human liver. 
However, possible inhibition of TMT by other drugs is unknown. It is considered beneficial that the 
rapid and efficient generation of the active metabolite of prasugrel results in its rapid appearance in 
plasma  and  consequently,  in  a  rapid  and  extensive  inhibition  of  platelet  aggregation.  Prasugrel 
exposure appears to be essentially unaffected by CYP inhibitors, inducers, and competitive inhibition 
by CYP substrates. 
Approximately half of the active metabolite amount appearing in plasma is formed during absorption 
and/or during first-pass metabolism in liver, which explains the rapid appearance of active metabolite 
in  plasma.  Other  prasugrel  metabolites  are  formed  by  oxidation  and/or  conjugation  and  are  not 
pharmacologically active.  
Approximately 95% of a [14C]prasugrel dose was recovered after oral administration. It was estimated 
that  ca  68%  of  the  prasugrel  dose  is  excreted  in  urine  and  27%  in  faeces  in  form  of  the  inactive 
metabolites over a period of 10 days. Thus, urinary excretion is the major pathway for the elimination 
of  prasugrel  metabolites.  The  elimination  half-life  of  R-138727  is  about  7.4  hours.  No  R-138727  is 
detected in urine or faeces.  
21/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Time  dependency  has  not  been  specifically  addressed.  Several  clinical  studies  support  the  evidence 
that  exposure  to  prasugrel’s  active  metabolite  is  dose-proportional.  Furthermore,  the  comparison  of 
AUC(0-4) and Cmax  values for the active metabolite with the dose shows a linear relationship with no 
discernable deviation from linearity over the entire dose range of 5 - 60 mg.  
•  Special populations 
Impaired renal function 
The effect of renal impairment on the disposition of prasugrel metabolites and platelet aggregation was 
investigated  in  three  clinical  studies  (TAAO,  TABW,  and  TACJ).  Included  were  subjects  with  end 
stage renal disease, subjects with moderate renal impairment 
Moderate Renal Impairment and End Stage Renal Disease (ESDR) 
The  AUC(0-tlast)  and  Cmax    values  for  the  active  metabolite  R-138727  both  averaged  38%  lower  in 
subjects with ESRD on dialysis across the dose range of 5- 60mg than in subjects with normal renal 
function. The lower active metabolite exposure in subjects with ESRD is generally consistent with an 
analysis across all three studies, TAAO, TABW and TACJ, in subjects with ESRD who received a 60-
mg  LD  of  prasugrel.  Despite  the  differences  in  active  metabolite  exposure,  platelet  aggregation 
response  to  prasugrel  is  similar  in  ESRD  and  healthy  subjects.  Although  subjects  older  than  65 
typically  have  some  degree  of  renal  impairment,  no  differences  in  AUC  or  Cmax  of  the  active 
metabolite  were  observed in  a  clinical  setting.  Exposure to the  active  metabolite  was comparable in 
subjects  with  moderate  renal  impairment  (estimated  creatinine  clearance  of  30-50  mL/min)  and 
matched  healthy  controls;  although  median  exposure  to  prasugrel’s  active  metabolite  was  higher  by 
approximately  22%  in  subjects  with  mild  renal  impairment  than  in  subjects  with  normal  renal 
function. The analyses of subjects with renal impairment in clinical pharmacology studies and in the 
substudy  in  phase  3  trial  do  not  support  the  need  for  a  dose  adjustment  for  renal  impairment.  The 
CHMP,  however,  requested  more  information  regarding  the  observed  inconsistency  in  the 
pharmacokinetic parameters, especially as patients with end stage renal function seem to have lower 
levels of the active metabolite compared to healthy subjects. Plausible explanations for the comparable 
efficacy between ESRD patients and healthy adults were provided and these do not suggest that the 
dose  adjustments  are  warranted.  Nevertheless,  the  risk  of  bleeding  episodes  may  be  increased  in 
patients with ESRD and the need for caution is reflected in the SPC. 
Impaired hepatic function 
Two Studies were performed in patients with mild to moderate hepatic function (Child-A and Child-
B). Based on these results no dose adjustment in this population appears necessary, however, caution 
should  be  exercised  in  patients  with  moderate  hepatic  impairment.  Clinical  trials  performed  with 
prasugrel have not included patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-C). As this population has 
a  higher risk  of  bleeding,  a  contraindication  in  the  SPC  for  patients  with severe  hepatic  impairment 
(Child Pugh Class C) was included. 
Gender  
The pharmacokinetic meta-analysis of 16 clinical pharmacology studies detected no effect of gender 
on the exposure to prasugrel’s active metabolite. 
Race 
The  effect  of  ethnic  origin  was  assessed  in  the  pharmacokinetic  meta-analysis  of  16  clinical 
pharmacology  studies.  Most  of  the  437  subjects  evaluated  after  a  prasugrel  LD  and  284  subjects 
evaluated during prasugrel MD were Caucasian, although about 22% were Asian. Most Asian subjects 
in the meta-analysis originated from the three clinical pharmacology studies specifically designed to 
assess the influence of Asian ethnicity on prasugrel pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics. In each 
of these studies, Caucasian subjects served as the reference population.  
Active metabolite exposure was similar in Chinese, Japanese, and Korean subjects after a 60-mg LD 
and during 10-mg and 5-mg MDs. However, the analysis showed that AUC(0-tlast) in Asians was 40% 
higher  during  MD  and  compared  to  Caucasians,  the  higher  exposures  in  Asians  produced  higher 
inhibition of platelet aggregation (IPA) at most time points. Asians and Caucasians in the LD portion 
22/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of the pharmacokinetic meta-analysis had mean body weights of 65 kg and 77 kg, respectively, so the 
meta-analysis  compared  weight  normalised  AUC(0-tlast)  and  Cmax  values  between  Asians  and 
Caucasians  to  assess  the  contribution  of  weight  to  exposure.  After  adjusting  for  body  weight,  the 
AUC(0-tlast)  of  the  active  metabolite  was  still  approximately  19%  higher  in  Chinese,  Japanese,  and 
Korean subjects compared  to that  of  Caucasians, predominantly  related to  higher  exposure in  Asian 
subjects  <60  kg.  No  dose  adjustment  is  recommended  based  on  ethnicity  alone,  but  therapeutic 
experience  with  prasugrel  is  limited  in  Asian  patients  and  therefore,  prasugrel  should  be  used  with 
caution. 
Weight 
Analyses  of  several  clinical  studies  in  healthy  subjects,  subjects  with  stable  atherosclerosis  and 
subjects  with  acute  coronary  syndrome  undergoing  PCI  consistently  show  that  the  AUC  of  the 
prasugrel  active  metabolite  increases  with  a  decreasing  body  weight.  The  relationship  between  the 
body  weight  and  the  active  metabolite  AUC  was  assessed  using  a  conventional  statistical  approach 
that relied on univariate and multivariate analyses to quantify the magnitude of the body weight effect 
on  active  metabolite  exposure.  In  healthy  subjects,  weight  was  one  of  the  two  covariates  declared 
clinically  significant  in  a  multivariate  analysis  of  these  data,  the  other  being  Asian  ethnicity.  The 
univariate  analysis  supports  consideration  of  dose  adjustment  at  any  weight  threshold  from  ≥55  kg 
through 80 kg, while the multivariate analysis supports dose adjustment consideration at any weight 
threshold from ≥50 kg through 80 kg. In subjects with ACS undergoing PCI in Study TAAL, weight 
was  one  of  the  tree  covariates  declared  significant  during  a  multivariate  analysis  of  these  data,  the 
other  two  being  age  and  gender.  The  univariate  analysis  of  the  body  weight  effect  supports 
consideration  of  dose  adjustment  for  subjects <70  kg,  but  not  for  subjects  ≥75 kg.  The  multivariate 
analysis of the body weight effect supports dose adjustment consideration for subjects <55 kg, but not 
for  subjects  ≥59  kg.  The  similarity  in  conclusions  between  the  univariate  and  multivariate  analyses 
clearly show that body weight is an important covariate. Further analyses of the risk for TIMI bleeding 
by different weight indicate that the odds ratio for bleeding with 10 mg prasugrel increases rapidly in 
the  vicinity  of  60  kg  (and  75 years  of  age);  supporting  these  values  as  cut-off  choices  for  dose 
adjustment. A PK/PD model to assess the effect of the reduced dose (5 mg) in subjects < 60 kg or ≥75 
years  of  age  was  developed  and  although  the  results  are  reassuring,  clinical  confirmation  is  needed 
(please see section Clinical Efficacy). Thus, the CHMP accepted the follow up measure to conduct a 
clinical study in subjects with stable CAD to compare the PK, PD, safety, and tolerability of prasugrel 
in  subjects  <60  kg  to  that  of  subjects  ≥60  kg.  Subjects  will  be  treated  with  a  maintenance  dose  of 
either prasugrel  5-mg,  prasugrel  10-mg,  or  clopidogrel  75-mg.  This  study  will  exclude  subjects  ≥75 
years. In addition, the SPC advises that the 10 mg maintenance dose is not recommended in subject 
weighing <60 kg. 
Elderly 
Age was one of 3 covariates declared statistically significant during a multivariate analysis of TAAL 
data as described above.  When exposure was normalized by body weight, the 90%CI for the effect of 
age  was  below  1.25  for  all  age  thresholds  from  50  to  80  years  old.  Despite  the lack  of  relationship 
between age and AUC in the multivariate analyses above, safety analyses of study TAAL revealed a 
strong relationship between bleeding risk and age, with a higher rate of bleeding in subjects ≥75 years 
old compared to those <75 years old. This prompted more extensive assessments of active metabolite 
exposure in the elderly. 
The analysis focused on exploring the differences in exposure in patients approximately at and below 
the median age in the TAAL study compared to exposure in patients whose age was above specific 
thresholds  up  to  85  years.  Based  on  this,  a  consideration  of  dose  adjustment  should  be  made  at  70 
years  and  more,  with  specific  dose  recommendations  and  the  age  thresholds  associated  with  those 
recommendations  depending  on  safety.  Furthermore, an  assumption  was  made  about  the  anticipated 
clinical use of prasugrel where patients <60 kg would receive a 5-mg MD rather than a 10-mg MD, 
and patients ≥60 kg would then be considered for dose adjustment based on their actual age. In this 
approach a univariate analysis of age effect in subjects ≥60 kg is clinically more relevant and when 
this  subgroup  of  patients  ≥60  kg  is  assessed,  the  active  metabolite  AUC  for  patients  ≥74  years  is 
significantly larger than that for patients <74 years. Consistent with this difference, more than 60% of 
23/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
patients ≥60 kg and ≥75 years old had concentrations above the median exposure in the TAAL study. 
This  supports  consideration  of  dose  adjustment  at  any  age  threshold  of  75  years  or  older,  although 
specific dose recommendations and the age thresholds associated with those recommendations depend 
on safety. 
In  summary,  age  is  a  significant  risk  factor  for  bleeding.  A  cut-off  level  of  75  years  based  on  a 
pharmacokinetic univariate analyses in subjects ≥ 60 kg is suggested.. This issue was addressed during 
the Scientific Advisory Group (SAG) meeting and in the oral explanation held at the CHMP meeting 
(please see section on Clinical Efficacy). Based on the CHMP discussions following the SAG meeting, 
Company written responses and oral explanation, the CHMP requested a strict SPC wording, which  
advises that the use of prasugrel in patients ≥ 75 years of age is generally not recommended.  If use is 
deemed  necessary  based  on  careful  individual  benefit/risk  evaluation  by  the  prescribing  physician, 
then following a 60 mg loading dose a reduced maintenance dose of 5 mg should be prescribed. An 
educational programme with regard to this topic is part of the conditions for the safe and effective use 
of the product (see sections 2.4 and 2.5). The results of the analysis conducted via a PK/PD model to 
evaluate  the  dose  5  mg  in  patients  <  60  kg  or  >  75  years  of  age  need clinical  confirmation  and  the 
Company is conducting such studies as part of the follow-up measures.. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
In  vitro,  prasugrel  metabolites  R-138727  and  R-106583  did  not  inhibit  the  activities  of  cytochrome 
P450  CYP2D6,  CYP2C9,  CYP2C19,  CYP1A2  and  CYP3A4  hepatic  isoforms  up  to  200  µM.  The 
other  major  metabolite,  the  hydrolysis  product  R-95913,  did  not  inhibit  CYP1A2,  but  did  inhibit 
CYP2D6, CYP2C9, CYP2C19 and CYP3A4. The projected maximum inhibition ranged from 2% for 
CYP2C9 to 21% for CYP2C19. None of these effects were deemed as a cause of a significant effect in 
the  clearance  of  drugs  metabolised  by  these  enzymes.  The  effect  of  prasugrel  on  CYP1A2  and 
CYP3A4  was  also  assessed  in  primary  cultures  of  human  hepatocytes  from  four  donors  at  various 
concentrations.  No  effect  was  observed  on  CYP1A2,  but  R-95913  showed  a  slight  to  moderate 
induction  of  CYP3A4  at  a  clinically  relevant  concentration.  In  order  to  further  assess  the  clinical 
consequences of the signals detected from in vitro studies, a number of in vivo studies, including the 
assessment  of  pharmacokinetic  interactions  with  aspirin,  rantitidine,  ketoconazole  (CYP3A4/5 
inhibitor),  rifampicin  (inducer  of  several  CYP  enzymes),  atorvastatin,  bupropion  (a  CYP2B6 
substrate),  warfarin,  and  heparin  was  conducted.  An  interaction  study  with  digoxin  was  also 
conducted;  aiming  at  the  assessment  of  the  effect  of  prasugrel  on  P-glycoprotein.  Only  a  slight 
inhibitory effect of prasugrel on CYP2B6 (decreased hydroxibupropion exposure by around 20-30%) 
was observed. This effect is likely to be of clinical concern only if prasugrel is co-administered with 
drugs for which CYP2B6 is the only metabolic pathway and have a narrow therapeutic window. This 
concern of the CHMP is adequately expressed into the SPC of this medicinal product. Furthermore, 
inhibition  or  induction  of CYP3A4  enzyme  did  not  indicate  any  significant  effect on  prasugrel.  Co-
administration  of  prasugrel  with  digoxin  at  steady  state  did  not  significantly  affect  digoxin  renal 
clearance  and  overall  pharmacokinetics.  Furthermore,  prasugrel  showed  a  lack  of  influence  on  the 
pharmacokinetics  of  S-warfarin,  but  caution  should  be  exercised  when  prasugrel  and  warfarin  are 
given  together  due  to  the  potential  increased  risk  of  bleeding.  Similarly,  additional  consideration  is 
necessary during the co-administration of prasugrel with heparin as stated in SPC (“an increased risk 
of  bleeding  is  possible  when  Efient  is  co-administered  with  heparin”).  Daily  co-administration  of 
products elevating the gastric pH value, e.g. ranitidine or lansoprazole, did not change the metabolite’s 
AUC and Tmax, but decreased the Cmax by 14% and 29%, respectively. Although in the maintenance 
therapy the Cmax changes could be considered of less clinical relevance, in the loading dose when the 
intention is to achieve maximum inhibition of the platelet aggregation as quickly as possible, the Cmax 
is  considered  a  clinically  relevant  parameter.  Therefore,  a  recommendation  in  the  SPC  that 
administration  of  the  loading  dose  without  concomitant  administration  with  proton  pump  inhibitors 
may provide most rapid onset of action was included. In summary, the potential for pharmacokinetic 
interactions with prasugrel was adequately studied both in vitro and in vivo. 
24/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
Platelets play a central role in the pathogenesis of atherothrombosis and in the formation of thrombi 
following coronary angioplasty, with and without stent implantation. Platelets initially adhere at sites 
of vascular injury, atherosclerotic plaque rupture, balloon angioplasty, and stenting. Platelet activation 
following these interactions results in the release of adenosine diphosphate (ADP), thromboxane A2, 
and  other  mediators.  Released  ADP  promotes  platelet  activation  via  the  G-protein  linked  P2Y1  and 
P2Y12  purinergic  receptors  leading  to  further  platelet  activation,  aggregation,  and  other  platelet 
functions,  such  as  platelet  shape  change,  secretion,  and  the  development  of  pro-coagulant  and  pro-
inflammatory activities. Activated platelets are recruited to sites of coronary plaque rupture and intra-
arterial stenting, thereby forming aggregates that may lead to platelet-rich thrombi, vascular occlusion, 
tissue ischemia, and myocardial necrosis in what is collectively known as acute coronary syndromes.  
Prasugrel is a thienopyridine ADP receptor antagonist that irreversibly inhibits platelet activation and 
aggregation mediated by the P2Y12 receptor. Prasugrel has a distinct chemical structure that permits 
efficient conversion to its active metabolite through rapid hydrolysis by carboxylesterases and then by 
multiple CYP450 enzymes. 
•  Mechanism of action 
Prasugrel’s pharmacological action is analogous to that described for other thienopyridines and results 
from covalent and irreversible binding of the active metabolite R-138727 to the P2Y12 platelet ADP 
receptor.  Once  bound,  a  platelet  is  rendered  ineffective  for  its  remaining  lifespan.  After  prasugrel 
administration  is  stopped,  return  to  baseline  platelet  aggregation  occurs  only  as  new  platelets  are 
formed. The return to the baseline typically occurs at about 7 - 10 days after treatment is interrupted.  
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Four initial studies assessing the safety, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamics of prasugrel in small 
numbers of healthy subjects allowed for the initial assessment of prasugrel activity, but did not analyze 
for prasugrel’s active metabolite. Subsequently, four studies aimed at characterisation of the prasugrel 
hydrochloride salt and four initial clinical studies were conducted with prasugrel base to characterise 
pharmacokinetic,  pharmacodynamics  and  tolerability  in  healthy  subjects.  Pharmacodynamics  effects 
of thienopyridines on platelet function may be assessed by inducing platelet aggregation with various 
concentrations  of  ADP.  Response  to  20  µM  ADP  has  been  used  as  the  primary  pharmacodynamic 
parameter  considering  that  it  is  a  specific  indicator  of  P2Y12  function.  Four  clinical  studies  were 
conducted  to  evaluate  the  prasugrel-mediated  inhibition  of  platelet  aggregation  and  to  characterise 
prasugrel’s  safety  and  tolerability,  its  pharmacokinetic  and  pharmacodynamic  profile,  effects  on 
platelet  function  and  bleeding  time.  In  all  tests,  effective  inhibition  of  platelet  aggregation  was 
observed with the onset of effect occurring within 1 hour of dosing. The effect continued through 48 
hours  post  dosing.  Platelet  aggregation  returned  to  normal  levels  at  day  7.  Reported  adverse  events 
included  gastrointestinal  disturbances,  autonomic  disturbances  and  general  disorders,  but  none  were 
serious. 
A meta-analysis of pharmacodynamic data across the studies in healthy subjects and in subjects with 
stable atherosclerosis was conducted (see figure below) and the results indicate that within 30 minutes, 
the  average  inhibition  of  platelet  aggregation  (IPA)  exceeds  50%.  This  time  point  is  a  key  value, 
because it is the first assessed time point at which the IPA shows a statistically significant difference 
from baseline. Furthermore, within 1 hour, 97% of the subjects achieved an IPA above 20%, with the 
average IPA exceeding 70%. Over 89% of all subjects achieved at least 50% IPA by 1 hour, and over 
90% of the maximum mean IPA is achieved by that time. One hour is a relevant time point because 
the  average  IPA  across  all  subjects  after  a  prasugrel  60-mg  LD  is  nearly  as  high  as  the  peak  IPA 
eventually  reached.  By  4  hours,  the  average  IPA  is  about  80%.  More  than  99%  of  the  prasugrel 
subjects in the meta-analysis had an IPA above 20%, and about 90% of subjects achieved 90% of their 
individual maximum IPA by then. At each of these time points, a 300-mg clopidogrel LD showed a 
lower  peak  of  IPA,  fewer  subjects  achieved  >20%  IPA.  The  results  in  response  to  5  µM  ADP  are 
similar.  Following  the  administration  of  a  single  dose  of  prasugrel  to  healthy  subjects  not  taking 
acetylsalicylic  acid,  platelet  aggregation  returned  to  normal  levels  by  day  6  after  a  single 
administration  of  30-  or  75-mg  dose  of  prasugrel  base.  After  multiple  doses  of  prasugrel  to  healthy 
25/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
subjects taking acetylsalicylic acid, platelet aggregation returned to baseline levels in 5 days following 
discontinuation of MD at steady-state. 
In summary, the results of the evaluation of the pharmacodynamic effects of prasugrel as an inhibitor 
of platelet aggregation were expressed as maximum platelet aggregation (MPA), which decreases with 
increasing pharmacodynamic response, and IPA,  which is derived from the MPA determination and 
increases  with 
the 
pharmacodynamic response of prasugrel with that of clopidogrel at the loading or loading/maintenance 
doses  showed  that  the  maximum  mean  IPA  was  achieved  faster  and  was  greater  with  prasugrel. 
Greater  pharmacodynamic  response  for  prasugrel  is  believed  to  be  the  result  of  the  more  rapid  and 
more  extensive  formation  of  its  active  metabolite  and  has  a  less  response  variability  compared  to 
clopidogrel.  
increasing  pharmacodynamic 
studies  comparing 
response.  Clinical 
No  relevant  pharmacodynamic  interactions  were  noticed  when  prasugrel  is  coadministered  with 
unfractioned  ranitidine,  ketoconazole,  atorvastatin,  unfractionated  heparin,  digoxin  and  warfarin. 
There  is  an  additive  pharmacodynamic  interaction  between  aspirin  and  prasugrel,  in  terms  of 
suppression  of  platelet  aggregation  induced  by  collagen.  The  pivotal  evidence  of  prasugrel  in  the 
claimed indication has been obtained as an add on therapy to low dose aspirin and thus, the potential 
safety risk of this interaction has been evaluated. In addition, the metabolic pathways for aspirin are 
separate  from  those  for  prasugrel  and  therefore  no  metabolic  interaction  would  be  expected.  Co-
administration  of  ketoconazole,  a  potent  inhibitor  of  CYP3A4  and  CYP3A5,  with  prasugrel  did  not 
significantly affect the exposure of the active metabolite of prasugrel, or the drug’s effect on platelet 
inhibition. The possibility that the pharmacokinetics of prasugrel could be affected by inhibiting two 
or more pathways involved in prasugrel’s metabolism was considered; however, only ticlopidine was 
listed as an acceptable CYP2B6 inhibitor.  In addition, clopidogrel is the other drug that was clinically 
shown to be potent, mechanism-based inhibitor of CYP2B6. Because co-administering either of these 
drugs with prasugrel would not be considered in clinical practice, clinical evaluation of concomitant 
administration of prasugrel and of CYP2B6 (ticlopidine or clopidogrel) was not conducted. A clinical 
study  aiming  to  assess  the  effect  of  80  mg  of  prasugrel  (single  dose)  on  cardiac  repolarisation  was 
conducted  including  placebo  and  moxifloxacin  as  positive  controls.  The  study  design  was  in 
agreement  with  the  ICH-E14  guideline.  No  effect  of  prasugrel  on  QT  was  observed  above  the 
threshold  of  regulatory  concern  (10  msec)  at  any  time  point.  The  positive  control  (moxifloxacine) 
showed a maximum QT prolongation effect within the expected range. 
26/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy  
The following studies have been conducted in order to support the use of prasugrel for the reduction of 
atherothrombotic events (CV death, nonfatal MI, or nonfatal stroke) in subjects with ACS: 
Study Alias 
Study Type 
H7T-MC- 
TAAH 
H7T-MC- 
TABL 
Phase 2 Dose Ranging 
Safety (multiple LD/MD 
regimens) 
Prasugrel (40-mg LD, 7.5-
mg MD) 
Prasugrel (60-mg LD, 10-
mg MD) 
Prasugrel (60-mg LD, 15-
mg MD 
Clopidogrel (300-mg LD, 
75-mg MD): 
All treatments were co-
administered with aspirin. 
30-day duration 
Phase 2 Comparative PD  
(60-/10-mg LD/MD 
prasugrel vs 600-/150-mg 
LD/MD clopidogrel 
regimens). 
30-day duration 
Subjects 
(N) 
Elective and 
urgent PCI 
(905) 
Elective PCI 
(201) 
H7T-MC- 
TAAL  
Phase 3 Pivotal Study  
(60-/10-mg LD/MD 
prasugrel vs 300-/75-mg 
LD/MD clopidogrel 
regimens) with aspirin 
Maximum duration 15 
months 
PCI in ACS 
(13608) 
Primary Objective 
1) Evaluate the safety of 
increasing doses of prasugrel by 
observing the rate of 
Non-CABG-associated significant 
bleeding (that is, Major plus 
Minor bleeding at 30 to 35 days 
after PCI). 
2) Compare the safety of 
prasugrel to a standard regimen of 
clopidogrel (a 300-mg LD during 
PCI and 29 to 34 days of a 75-mg 
once daily MD) by observing the 
rate of Non- CABG- associated 
significant bleeding 30 to 35 days 
after PCI 
1) To compare the inhibition of 
platelet aggregation (IPA) with 20 
µM ADP measured at 6 hours 
(±30 minutes) after prasugrel 60-
mg LD versus clopidogrel 600-
mg LD in subjects who did not 
receive a GP IIb/IIIa antagonist. 
2) To compare the IPA with 20 
µM ADP measured after 14±2 
days of prasugrel 10-mg daily 
MD versus the IPA after 14±2 
days of clopidogrel 150 mg daily 
MD in the “on-treatment 
population” who received PCI 
regardless of GPIIb/IIIa 
antagonist use (this included 
subjects receiving prasugrel and 
clopidogrel, in either order, 
during crossover) 
To demonstrate superiority of 
prasugrel co-administered with 
aspirin relative to clopidogrel co-
administered with aspirin, as 
measured by a reduction in the 
composite endpoint of CV death, 
onfatal MI, or nonfatal stroke 
at a median follow up of at 
least 12 months. 
Overall 
Conclusions 
60-/10-mg 
LD/MD prasugrel 
showed 
comparable TIMI 
Major + Minor 
bleeding to 
300-/75-mg 
LD/MD 
clopidogrel, trend 
towards decreased 
30-day MACE 
60-/10-mg 
LD/MD prasugrel 
showed more 
rapid onset of 
higher IPA versus 
600-/150-mg 
LD/MD 
clopidogrel 
Superior efficacy 
for 60-/10-mg 
LD/MD prasugrel 
vs 300-/75-mg 
LD/MD 
clopidogrel 
regimens with 
higher risk of 
bleeding 
Abbreviations:  ACS = acute coronary syndromes; CAD = coronary artery disease; IPA = inhibition of platelet aggregation; 
LD = loading dose; MACE = major adverse cardiovascular events; MD = maintenance dose; N = number randomly assigned 
to prasugrel and/or clopidogrel; PCI = percutaneous coronary intervention; PD = pharmacodynamic; PK = pharmacokinetic; 
PK/PD = pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic; TIMI = Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction. 
•  Dose response studies 
Phase  3  dose selection  was  based  primarily  on  2  randomized  clinical  studies  in  subjects  with  stable 
atherosclerosis using the approved clopidogrel 300-/75-mg LD/MD regimen as the active comparator.  
The  first  study  (TAAD)  was  a  28-day,  phase  1b,  dose-ranging  pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic 
study in aspirin-treated subjects (N=101) comparing platelet inhibition using standard aggregometry. 
The second study (TAAH) was a 30-day, phase 2, dose-ranging safety study in aspirin-treated subjects 
(N=905) undergoing elective or urgent PCI (see below). Study TABL was conducted in parallel with 
the pivotal study TAAL to investigate the safety and pharmacodynamics of prasugrel against higher 
dose regimens of clopidogrel.  
27/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
Study TAAD  
This  was  a  28-day,  phase  1b,  dose-ranging  pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic  study  in  stable 
atherosclerosis  patients  (N=101)  treated  with  aspirin  (375  mg),  in  which  the  platelet  inhibition  was 
compared using the standard aggregometry. It is worth noting that the participants in this study are not 
entirely representative of those claimed in the indication of the current submission. In this study four 
different regimens (40 mg/5 mg, 40 mg/7,5 mg, 60 mg/10 mg and 60 mg/15 mg) were compared with 
the  approved  clopidogrel  LD/MD  regimen  (300mg/75  mg).  Overall,  both  the  40-mg  and  60-mg 
prasugrel LDs resulted in more rapid onset with significantly greater IPA to 20 µM ADP from 2 to 6 
hours after administration than the 300-mg LD of clopidogrel. Both the 10- and 15-mg prasugrel MDs 
achieved consistent and significantly greater IPA than the 75-mg clopidogrel MD; however, the 15-mg 
MD of prasugrel was associated with higher bleeding adverse events. In contrast, the prasugrel 5- and 
7.5-mg MD groups were not consistently and statistically different in IPA from the clopidogrel 75-mg 
MD group. 
Study TAAH 
This  was  a  double-blind,  randomized,  multicentre,  dose-ranging  trial  of  prasugrel  compared  with 
clopidogrel  in  subjects  undergoing  PCI.  The  primary  endpoints  evaluated  the  safety  of  increasing 
doses of prasugrel (a loading dose during PCI and once-daily maintenance dosing for 29 to 34 days) 
and compared prasugrel’s safety with a standard regimen of clopidogrel (300-mg LD during PCI and 
75-mg once-daily maintenance dose for 29 to 34 days) by observing the rate of non-CABG-associated 
significant bleeding (i.e. major and minor bleeding at 30 to 35 days after PCI).  
The  overall  observed  rate  of  all  bleeding  events  was  higher  for  subjects  in  the  combined  prasugrel 
group (29/650 subjects, 4.5%) compared with subjects in the clopidogrel group (9/254 subjects, 3.5%), 
but  this  difference  was  not  statistically  significant.  With  regard  to  the  bleeding  events,  neither  the 
differences  among  prasugrel  dose  groups  (p=0.933),  nor  the  differences  between  prasugrel  and 
clopidogrel  (p=0.590)  were  statistically  significant.  Thus,  it  was  concluded  that  there  was  no 
statistically  significant  difference  in  the  safety  of  increasing  doses  of  prasugrel  and  no  statistically 
significant  difference  between  the  safety  of  prasugrel  and  the  standard  clopidogrel  regimen.  The 
overall rate of non-CABG-associated significant bleeding was lower than anticipated and this resulted 
in reduced statistical power to assess the safety of prasugrel. A reduction of dose in the very elderly 
was recommended based on the pivotal study and is described later. 
•  Main studies 
The pivotal phase 3 Study (H7T-MC-TAAL, further referred to as TAAL) was a global, multicentre, 
parallel-group,  randomized,  double–blind,  double-dummy,  active-controlled  study.    The  primary 
objective  of  Study  TAAL  was  to  test  the  hypothesis  that  prasugrel  is  superior  to  clopidogrel  in  the 
treatment of subjects with ACS undergoing PCI, as measured by a reduction in the primary composite 
efficacy  endpoint  of  CV  death,  nonfatal  MI,  or  nonfatal  stroke.  This  study  was  conducted  in 
accordance with the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki and that are 
consistent  with  good  clinical  practices  (GCP)  and  the  applicable  laws  and  regulations  of  where  the 
study was conducted. Study TAAL was evaluated based on several relevant guidelines:  
- The CONSORT statement (The Lancet 2001;357:1191-94), 
- Points to consider on the clinical investigation of new medicinal products for the treatment of 
unstable angina pectoris or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction, CPMP/EWP/570/98, 
- Points to consider on application on one pivotal study (CPMP/EWP/2330/99), 
- Points  to  consider  on  the  clinical  development  of  fibrinolytic  medicinal  products  in  the 
treatment  of  patients  with  ST  segment  elevation  acute  myocardial  infarction  (STEMI), 
CPMP/EWP/967/01. 
In addition, scientific advice given by the CHMP in 2004 was considered when planning this pivotal 
study.    
28/59 
© EMEA 2009 
   
 
 
 
 
 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Participants were to be of a legal age (and at least 18 years of age) and competent mental condition to 
provide written informed consent. For women of child-bearing potential, only those tested negative for 
pregnancy  between  ACS  presentation  and  enrolment  and  agreed  to  use  a  reliable  method  of  birth 
control during the study were included. Subjects with ACS (subjects with unstable angina and non-ST-
segment  elevation  myocardial  infarction  [UA/NSTEMI]  with  TIMI  risk  score  ≥3  or  ST-segment 
elevation  myocardial  infarction  [STEMI])  who  are  to  undergo  PCI  were  eligible  to  enter  the  study. 
The main inclusion criteria were:  
- Moderate- to high-risk UA was defined as a history of chest discomfort or ischemic symptoms 
of  ≥10  minutes  duration  at  rest  ≤72  hours  prior  to  randomization,  with  persistent  or  transient 
ST-segment  deviation  ≥1  mm  in  one  or  more  ECG  leads  without  elevation  of  CK-MB  or 
troponin T or I but with a TIMI risk score ≥3. 
- Moderate-  to  high-risk  NSTEMI  was  defined  as  a  history  of  chest  discomfort  or  ischemic 
symptoms  of  ≥10  min  duration  at  rest  ≤72  hours  prior  to  randomization  with  no  evidence  of 
persistent  ST-segment  elevation.  Subjects  must  also  have  CK-MB  or  troponin  T  or  I  greater 
than the upper limit of normal (ULN) and a TIMI risk score ≥3.  
- ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) is defined as a history of chest discomfort 
or ischemic symptoms of >20 minutes duration at rest ≤14 days prior to randomization with one 
of the following present on at least one ECG prior to randomization: a) ST-segment elevation 
≥1 mm in two or more contiguous ECG leads. b) New or presumably new left bundle branch 
block (LBBB). c) ST-segment depression ≥1 mm in two anterior precordial leads (V1 through 
V4) with clinical history and evidence suggestive of true posterior infarction. 
Subjects with STEMI could be enrolled within 12 hours of symptom onset if primary PCI was planned 
or within 14 days if delayed PCI was planned following initial pharmacotherapy for STEMI.  
Exclusion criteria were extensive. In general, these excluded subjects at increased risk of bleeding (for 
example,  anaemia,  thrombocytopenia,  intracranial  pathology,  severe  hepatic  dysfunction,  oral 
anticoagulants,  chronic  non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory  drug  (NSAID)  use,  or  use  of  any 
thienopyridine  within 5  days  of  the  main  treatment), patients  with refractory  ventricular  arrhythmia, 
class  IV  congestive  heart.  The  inclusion/exclusion  criteria  are  considered  acceptable.  Diagnosis  and 
short-term  risk  stratification  is  based  on  the  combination  of  ischaemic  symptoms,  ECG  changes, 
biomarkers  in  some  cases  and  risk  score  results.  The  recommendations  of  the  European  Society  of 
Cardiology guidelines (2007) were followed. 
Treatments 
This study involved a comparison of prasugrel (60-mg LD, 10-mg MD) and clopidogrel (300-mg LD, 
75-mg  MD).  Both  treatments  were  administered  orally  as  a  one-time  LD  followed  by  a  once  daily 
MD. The loading and maintenance doses of prasugrel for this Phase 3 PCI study were selected on the 
basis  of  non-clinical  thrombosis  models,  non-clinical  toxicology  studies,  dose-escalation  studies  in 
healthy  subjects,  a  dose-ranging  study  versus  clopidogrel  in  subjects  with  stable  coronary  artery 
disease (Study TAAD), and a dose-ranging study versus clopidogrel in subjects undergoing elective or 
urgent PCI (Study TAAH). Owing to the link observed between thrombosis complications following 
PCI and poor antiplatelet response to clopidogrel, recommendations for the use of doses higher than 
the standard in PCI have been reported. There is evidence of some increase in the speed of onset and 
the  level  of  platelet  inhibition  with  both  600  mg  and  900  mg  of  clopidogrel  LDs.  Still,  these 
assumptions  are  based  on  limited  data  and  require  further  sound  confirmation.  Thus,  the  use  of  the 
standard  300  mg  LD  (administration  as  soon  as  possible)  and  75  mg/day  MD  of  clopidogrel  is 
acceptable. 
Objectives 
Primary objective: To test the hypothesis that prasugrel (co-administered with aspirin) was superior to 
clopidogrel (co-administered with aspirin) in the treatment of subjects with acute coronary syndromes 
who were to undergo percutaneous coronary intervention, as measured by a reduction in the composite 
endpoint  of  cardiovascular  (CV)  death,  nonfatal  myocardial  infarction  (MI),  or  nonfatal  stroke  at  a 
median follow-up of at least 12 months. 
29/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
The secondary efficacy objectives were to compare both treatments with respect to the: 
- risk  of  cardiovascular  (CV)  death,  nonfatal  myocardial  infarction  (MI),  or  nonfatal  stroke 
through 90 days. 
- risk of CV death, nonfatal MI, or nonfatal stroke through 30 days. 
- risk of CV death, nonfatal MI, or urgent target vessel revascularization through 90 days. 
- risk of CV death, nonfatal MI, or urgent target vessel revascularization through 30 days. 
- risk of all-cause death, nonfatal MI, or nonfatal stroke at study end. 
- risk of CV death, nonfatal MI, nonfatal stroke, or rehospitalisation for cardiac ischemic events 
at study end. 
- risk  of  definite  or  probable  stent  thrombosis  per  Academic  Research  Consortium  (ARC) 
definition at study end. 
The safety objectives of this study were to compare prasugrel with clopidogrel with respect to the: 
- risk of non-coronary artery bypass graft (Non-CABG) Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction 
Study Group (TIMI) Major bleeding in subjects receiving prasugrel or clopidogrel. 
- risk  of  Life-Threatening  bleeding  (a  subset  of  Non-CABG-related  TIMI  Major  bleeding)  in 
subjects receiving prasugrel or clopidogrel. 
- risk of Non-CABG-related TIMI Minor bleeding in subjects receiving prasugrel or clopidogrel. 
- The  overall  safety  and  tolerability  of  prasugrel  administration  based  on  clinical  findings, 
laboratory values, and the occurrence of treatment-emergent adverse events. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy measure was time to first event of a composite of cardiovascular death, nonfatal 
myocardial infarction, or nonfatal stroke at study end. Cardiovascular Death (CV Death) was defined 
as death due to documented cardiovascular cause. Additionally, death not clearly attributable to non-
cardiovascular  causes  was  considered  CV  death.  The  definition  of  myocardial  infarction  (MI)  was 
adapted from the standard American College of Cardiology (ACC) definition and was dependent on 
the clinical timing of the event in relation to presenting syndrome and cardiovascular procedures. A 
peri-procedural event must be distinct from the index event. If an ischemic biomarker was elevated at 
the onset of the suspected event, there must be demonstration of a falling biomarker level prior to the 
onset of the suspected event, and the subsequent peak must be greater than 1.5 times the value prior to 
the  onset  of  the  event.  The  biomarker  levels  required  for  the  diagnosis  of  MI  were  dependent  on 
relationship to cardiac procedures: 
- If the suspected event was within 48 hours of a PCI, the CK-MB value (on at least two samples) 
must be >3x ULN or >5xULN on the last available sample provided it was obtained ≥12 hours 
after the PCI; no symptoms were required. 
- If the suspected event was within 48 hours of a CABG, the CK-MB value (on a single measure) 
must be >10xULN; no symptoms were required. 
- If the suspected event was not within 48 hours of a PCI or CABG, the diagnostic criteria were 
met if the subject had CK-MB or cardiac troponin >ULN and the presence of either chest pain 
≥20 minutes in duration or ST-segment deviation ≥1 mm on the ECG. 
In any clinical circumstance, the appearance of new Q-waves on the ECG distinct from a prior event 
or pathologic evidence (such as autopsy) showing a new MI felt to be distinct from a prior event were 
considered appropriate evidence for MI, as would ST-segment elevation lasting for at least 20 minutes 
and  accompanied  by  ischemic  chest  pain  or  haemodynamic  decompensation.  Nonfatal  stroke  was 
defined as the rapid onset of new, persistent neurologic deficit lasting more than 24 hours. In the case 
of  clinical  diagnosis  of  nonfatal  stroke,  computed  tomography  (CT)  or  magnetic  resonance  imaging 
(MRI)  scan  imaging  was  strongly  recommended.  CT or  MRI  scans  were  considered  by  the  Clinical 
Events Committee (CEC) to support the clinical impression. Supplemental information from head CT 
or MRI scans determined if there was a demonstrable lesion compatible with an acute nonfatal stroke. 
Furthermore, nonfatal stroke was classified as either ischemic or hemorrhagic based on imaging data, 
if available, or uncertain cause if imaging data were not available. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints included: 
- CV death, nonfatal MI, or nonfatal stroke through 30 days and 90 days post randomization. 
- CV  death,  nonfatal  MI,  or  UTVR  through  30  days  and  90  days  post  randomization.  UTVR 
required both of the following: PCI or CABG, for recurrent ischemia that, in the investigator’s 
opinion, could not be delayed for more than 24 hours and was defined by the investigator as a 
30/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
non-elective  procedure  (urgent),  and  revascularization,  either  with  CABG  or  PCI,  had  to 
include one or more vessel(s) dilated at the initial (qualifying) procedure. 
- All cause death, nonfatal MI, or nonfatal stroke. 
- CV death, nonfatal MI, nonfatal stroke, or re-hospitalization for cardiac ischaemic events. 
- Definite or probable (Academic Research Consortium (ARC) definition) stent thrombosis. 
Safety endpoints were set as follows: Non-CABG-related TIMI Major bleeding, Non-CABG-related 
TIMI Life-Threatening bleeding, and Non-CABG-related TIMI Minor bleeding.  
Non-CABG-related TIMI Major bleeding was any intracranial haemorrhage (ICH) OR any clinically 
overt bleeding including bleeding evident on imaging studies) associated with a fall in haemoglobin 
(Hgb) of ≥5 gm/dL from baseline. Non-CABG-related TIMI Life-Threatening bleeding was any Non-
CABG-related  TIMI  Major  bleeding  that  was  fatal,  led  to  hypotension  that  required  treatment  with 
intravenous  inotropic  agents,  or  required  surgical  intervention  for  ongoing  bleeding,  or  necessitated 
the  transfusion  of  4  or  more  units  of  blood  over  a  48-hour  period,  or  any  symptomatic  ICH.  Non-
CABG-related TIMI Minor bleeding was any clinically overt bleeding associated with a fall in Hgb of 
>3 gm/dL but <5 gm/dL from baseline. 
Sample size 
Study TAAL was intended to continue until an estimated 875 subjects with UA/NSTEMI reached one 
of the events described in the triple composite endpoint (CV death, nonfatal MI, or nonfatal stroke) 
and a median duration of therapy of at least 12 months and a minimum follow-up of 6 months was 
achieved.  A  power  calculation  to  assess  superiority  was  performed,  assuming  a  hazard  ratio  of  0.80 
and  based  on  a  two-sided  log-rank  test  using  a  two-sided  significance  level  of  0.05.  In  view  of  an 
anticipated  lack  of  proportionality  of  hazard,  the  Gehan-Wilcoxon  test  was  used  in  the  primary 
analysis.  The  statistical  power  of  the  Gehan-Wilcoxon  test  depends  on  the  direction  and  size  of  the 
deviation from proportional hazards. It is expected, however, that the power of the Gehan-Wilcoxon 
test is approximately 90% if the non-proportionality is not severe. A total of around 13,000 subjects 
with  ACS  were  to  be  enrolled,  so  that  9500  subjects  with  UA/NSTEMI  would  be  enrolled.  The 
number of subjects with STEMI was to be capped at 3500 subjects, which was deemed to be adequate 
to assess the consistency of treatment effect and safety within the STEMI population.  
Randomisation 
Subjects  were  randomized  via  an  interactive  voice  response  system  (IVRS)  to  either  prasugrel  or 
clopidogrel  in  a  1:1  ratio.  Randomization  was  carried  out  at  the  site  level  and  stratified  by  clinical 
presentation. Subjects were randomized only after diagnostic angiography confirmed anatomy suitable 
for PCI, except for patients presenting with STEMI with onset of symptoms < 12 hours. Overall, the 
randomization  procedure  was  assessed  as  successfully  implemented.  For  a  few  patients  (1.7%)  the 
randomization  was  based  on  incorrect  strata  and  the  site  monitoring  identified  a  small  number  of 
patients (≤ 1.3%), who were given the wrong kit/drug. The impact of these protocol violations on the 
study results is believed to be negligible. 
Blinding (masking) 
Participants, the sponsors,  and all study site personnel were blinded to study drug. Selected clinical 
study personnel not associated with the study or its operations were granted access to randomization 
table  and  treatment  assignments.  These  personnel  were  limited  to  those  who  prepared  unblinded 
summaries and analyses for the periodic safety reviews by the Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) 
and/or regulatory agencies. 
Statistical methods 
All  efficacy  analyses  were  performed  using  an  intent-to-treat  dataset,  consisting  of  all  randomized 
subjects. The safety analyses were carried out using the treated data set that includes all subjects who 
received at least one dose of study drug, either a loading dose or maintenance dose. Primary efficacy 
analyses  were  conducted  on  endpoints  adjudicated  by  an  independent  CEC,  including  CV  death, 
myocardial  infarction,  stroke,  urgent  target  vessel  revascularization,  and  stent  thrombosis.  The 
comparison of the primary endpoint was evaluated using the Gehan-Wilcoxon test from a time-to-first 
event  analysis  at  a  two-sided  alpha  level  of  0.05.  Subjects  experiencing  multiple  occurrences  of  an 
endpoint were censored at the time of first occurrence. All other key efficacy and safety analyses were 
31/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
conducted using the log-rank test from a time-to-first event analysis. All efficacy and safety analyses 
were carried out first for subjects with UA/NSTEMI, followed by analysis of the same endpoint in the 
All ACS population (UA/NSTEMI plus STEMI subjects) if superiority of prasugrel was demonstrated 
in  the  UA/NSTEMI  population.  The  primary  outcome  was  also  analyzed  in  the  STEMI  population. 
Analyses including all subjects with ACS included clinical presentation UA/NSTEMI vs STEMI as a 
stratification  factor  in  the  time-to-first  event  analyses.  For  the  secondary  analyses  no  formal 
adjustment  of  the  grade  of  statistical  significance  is  considered  necessary,  due  to  the  presence  of  a 
predefined  hierarchical  strategy.  The  statistical  analysis  plan  was  well  prepared  and  follows  the 
recommendations  in  the  CHMP  Guideline  CPMP/EWP/2330/99  (Points  to  Consider  on  multiplicity 
issues and on application with one pivotal study). 
Results 
Participant flow in study TAAL 
There were 7 subjects randomly assigned to prasugrel, and 4 subjects randomly assigned to 
clopidogrel without data available for inclusion in the final analysis dataset due to an incomplete 
informed consent document. The most frequent reason for screen failure was that subjects did not meet 
the inclusion criteria. The majority (98.9%) of subjects completed the study and the number of patients 
withdrawing consent or considered lost to follow-up was similar between treatment groups. 
Recruitment 
The enrolment period for Study TAAL was 5 November 2004 to 14 January 2007. The last subject 
visit occurred on 22 July 2007. The geographic variation, which is likely to depict the future use of the 
drug, is shown below. 
Region of Enrollment  n (%)a 
North America 
United States 
Europe 
Eastern Europe 
Western Europe 
South America 
Rest of World 
Prasugrel, n=6813 
2164 (31.8) 
2039 (29.9) 
3436 (50.4) 
1657 (24.3) 
1779 (26.1) 
270 (3.96) 
943 (13.8) 
Clopdogrel, n=6795 
2146 (31.6) 
2020 (29.7) 
3439 (50.6) 
1665 (24.5) 
1774 (26.1) 
264 (3.89) 
946 (13.92) 
Conduct of the study 
Study TAAL was conducted in 725 centres in 30 countries around the world. The following changes 
were  made  in  the  conduct  of  the  study  after  the  start  of  the  study:  The  definition  of  nonfatal  peri-
procedural  myocardial  infarction  (PPMI)  within  48  hours  after  percutaneous  coronary  intervention 
was modified (protocol amendment A). The modified definition maintains the original definition and 
extends the definition of PPMI to include a CK-MB >5xULN on one sample if it is the last available 
sample and was drawn ≥12 hours after PCI. This change affected only the CEC adjudication of PPMI 
32/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
within  48  hours  of  PCI.  The  criteria  for  investigator-identified  nonfatal  clinical  MI  that  were  also 
adjudicated by the CEC remained unchanged..  
Overall, changes made during study conduct were not considered major. 
Baseline data 
Summary of baseline characteristics for subjects in study TAAL is presented below. 
Characteristic 
Clinical Presentation  n (%) 
UA/NSTEMI 
STEMI 
STEMI ≤12 hours a 
STEMI >12 hours a 
Age (Years)  
Overall Mean (SD) 
≥75 Years  n (%)a 
Sex n (%a) 
Female 
Region of Enrollment  n (%)a 
North America 
United States 
Europe 
Eastern Europe 
Western Europe 
South America 
Rest of World 
Body Weight (kg) 
Mean (SD) 
Creatinine Clearance 
<60 ml/min 
Index Procedure(s) 
PCI 
Multivessel PCI 
CABG 
Any Stent 
Bare Metal Stent 
Drug Eluting Stent 
GPIIb/IIIa inhibitor use  
Medical History n (%)a 
Diabetes Mellitus 
Hypertension 
Hypercholesterolemia 
Prior MI 
Prior PCI 
Prior CABG 
Prior TIA 
Prior Stroke 
Prasugrel 
N=6813 
5044 (74.0) 
1769 (25.9) 
1203 (17.7) 
564 (8.3) 
N=6813 
60.9/11.2 
901/13.2 
N=6813 
1705 (25.0) 
N=6813 
2164 (31.8) 
2039 (29.9) 
3436 (50.4) 
1657 (24.3) 
1779 (26.1) 
270 (3.96) 
943 (13.8) 
N=6722 
83.6 (16.8) 
N=6699 
717 (10.7) 
N=6813 
6715 (98.6) 
967 (14.7) 
25 (0.37) 
6018 (95.7) 
3190 (51.0) 
2860 (45.5) 
3670 (53.9) 
N=6813 
1576 (23.1) 
4370 (64.1) 
3790 (55.6) 
1226 (18.0) 
904 (13.3) 
541 (7.94) 
94 (1.38) 
181 (2.66) 
Clopidogrel 
N=6795 
5030 (74.0) 
1765 (26.0) 
1235 (18.2) 
530 (7.80) 
N=6795 
60.9/11.4 
908/13.4 
N=6795 
1818 (26.8) 
N=6795 
2146 (31.6) 
2020 (29.7) 
3439 (50.6) 
1665 (24.5) 
1774 (26.1) 
264 (3.89) 
946 (13.92) 
N=6715 
83.2 (16.9) 
N=6681 
774 (11.6) 
N=6795 
6698 (98.6) 
946 (14.4) 
23 (0.34) 
6004 (96.1) 
3185 (51.0) 
2872 (46.0) 
3733 (55.0) 
N=6795 
1570 (23.1) 
4371 (64.3) 
3790 (55.8) 
1208 (17.8) 
926 (13.6) 
497 (7.3) 
117 (1.7) 
160 (2.35) 
Abbreviations:  CABG = coronary artery bypass graft; MI = myocardial infarction; N = number of subjects randomly 
assigned; n = number of subjects in sub-category; NSTEMI = non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction; PCI = 
percutaneous coronary intervention; SD = standard deviation; STEMI = ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction; TIA = 
transient ischemic attack; UA = unstable angina. 
a % is percent (rounded to nearest whole number) of number of subjects with non-missing values for category. 
The majority of subjects were male and Caucasian. The mean age was 61 years and the mean weight 
was 83 kg. The subject characteristics were well balanced across the treatment groups; in UA/STEMI, 
STEMI,  and  all  ACS  populations.  Exceptions  of  statistically  significant  differences  were  age  and 
33/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
diabetic  treatment  in  the  STEMI  population,  gender  in  the  All  ACS  population,  and  the  use  of 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) in the UA/NSTEMI and the All ACS populations. 
The  magnitude  of  the  imbalances  was  small  and  these  imbalances  are  not  believed  to  affect  the 
outcome of the study. It is of note that TIMI Risk Index score at baseline was identical in the all ACS 
population in the two treatment arms. There is a small difference - albeit statistically insignificant - in 
number of patients with a history of prior stroke between the two treatment arms.  
Numbers analysed 
The  ITT  population  is  defined  as  all  randomized  subjects  except  where  otherwise  specified.  The 
Safety  population  is  formed  by  all  randomised  patients  who  received  at  least  one  dose  of  the 
medication  and  had  at  least  one  contact  with  the  investigator  afterwards.  Overall  compliance  with 
taking study drug was high (approximately 96%). 
Outcomes and estimation 
Study  TAAL  demonstrated  that  treatment  with  prasugrel,  as  compared  with  clopidogrel  at  the 
standard,  approved  dose,  resulted  in  a  statistically  significant  reduction  in  the  rate  of  the  primary 
efficacy  endpoint  (the  composite  of  CV  death,  nonfatal  MI,  or  nonfatal  stroke  at  a  median  of  14.5 
months  follow-up).  In  addition,  there  was  a  statistically  significant  reduction  in  all  pre-specified 
secondary efficacy endpoints. This was shown across the full spectrum of ACS with planned PCI. The 
primary  and  secondary  efficacy  endpoints  were  analyzed  first  in  subjects  with  unstable  angina  and 
non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (UA/NSTEMI), followed by an analysis of the same 
endpoints  in  all  subjects  in  the  All  ACS  population  (UA/NSTEMI  and  ST-segment  elevation 
myocardial infarction (STEMI)). The data were then also analysed in patients presenting with STEMI. 
For  subjects  presenting  with  UA/NSTEMI,  the  number  and  percentage  of  subjects  reaching  the 
primary composite endpoint were 469/5044 (9.30%) and 565/5030 (11.23%) for those randomized to 
prasugrel or clopidogrel, respectively, (HR=0.820 (95% CI 0.726-0.927)). For subjects presenting with 
STEMI,  the  number  and  percentage  of  subjects  reaching  the  primary  composite  endpoint  were 
174/1769  (9.84%)  and  216/1765  (12.24%)  for  those  randomized  to  prasugrel  or  clopidogrel, 
respectively,  (HR=0.793  (95%  CI  0.649-0.968)).  In  the  all  ACS  population,  the  number  and 
percentage of subjects reaching the primary composite endpoint were 643/6813 (9.44%) and 781/6795 
(11.49%) for those randomized to prasugrel or clopidogrel, respectively, (HR=0.812 (95% CI 0.732-
0.902)). Thus, on average a relative risk reduction of approximately 20% was achieved. An absolute 
risk reduction of approximately 2% was observed. 
Considering the individual components of the main endpoints significant reductions in the prasugrel 
group in the rates of ischemic events were observed. This differences were largely related to reduction 
in nonfatal MI (6.97% P vs 9.12% C, HR 0.757, p<.001) and all MI (7.12% P vs. 9.32% C, HR 0.757, 
p<.001).  Positive  results  were  evident  within  the  first  24  hours  following  PCI,  thus  data  seem  to 
demonstrate  a  reduction  in  the  early  ischemic  events  such  as  peri-procedural  MI.  The  risks  of 
nonprocedural clinical MI  were significantly reduced in the prasugrel group, as was the risk of new 
ST-elevation  MI.  However,  this  effect  was  not  associated  with  a  difference  in  the  incidence  of  all 
cause  death  or  CV  death  between  treatment  groups.  It  is  of  note  that  the  higher  level  of  platelet 
inhibition  achieved  relatively  fast  with  the  LD  of  prasugrel,  leads  to  a  reduction  of  the  risk  of 
thrombotic complications in the acute phase. Statistically significant differences in favour of prasugrel 
were also detected for all the planned secondary efficacy endpoints (see Methods, Objectives on page 
35). 
34/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
Study TAAL Primary Efficacy Endpoint and Components at Study End 
Prasugrel 
Event 
n (%)a 
Clopidogrel 
n (%)a 
Hazard Ratio 
(95% CI)b 
p-Valuec 
UA/NSTEMI 
Primary End Point 
CV Death, Nonfatal MI, or 
Nonfatal Stroke 
CV Death 
Nonfatal MI 
Nonfatal Stroke 
All Cause Death 
All MI 
All Stroke 
STEMI 
Primary End Point 
CV Death, Nonfatal MI, or 
Nonfatal Stroke 
CV Death 
Nonfatal MI 
Nonfatal Stroke 
All Cause Death 
All MI 
All Stroke 
All ACS 
Primary End Point 
CV Death, Nonfatal MI, or 
Nonfatal Stroke 
CV Death 
Nonfatal MI 
Nonfatal Stroke 
All Cause Death 
All MI 
All Stroke 
N=5044 
N=5030 
469 (9.30) 
565 (11.23) 
0.820 (0.726,0.927) 
0.002 
90 (1.78) 
357 (7.08) 
40 (0.79) 
130 (2.58) 
366 (7.26) 
49 (0.97) 
92 (1.83) 
464 (9.22) 
41 (0.82) 
121 (2.41) 
476 (9.46) 
46 (0.91) 
0.979 (0.732,1.309) 
0.761 (0.663,0.873) 
0.979 (0.633,1.513) 
1.076 (0.840,1.378) 
0.760 (0.663,0.871)    
1.068 (0.714,1.597)     
0.885 
<0.001 
0.922 
0.563 
<0.001 
0.748 
N=1769 
N=1765 
174 (9.84) 
216 (12.24) 
0.793 (0.649,0.968) 
0.019 
43 (2.43) 
118 (6.67) 
21 (1.19) 
58 (3.28) 
119 (6.73) 
26 (1.47) 
58 (3.29) 
156 (8.84) 
19 (1.08) 
76 (4.31) 
157 (8.90) 
25 (1.42) 
0.738 (0.497,1.094) 
0.746 (0.588,0.948) 
1.097 (0.590,2.040) 
0.759 (0.539,1.068) 
0.748 (0.589,0.949)     
1.032 (0.596,1.787)     
0.129 
0.016 
0.770 
0.113 
0.016 
0.911 
N=6813 
N=6795 
643 (9.44) 
781 (11.49) 
0.812 (0.732,0.902) 
133 (1.95) 
475 (6.97) 
   61 (0.90) 
188 (2.76) 
485 (7.12) 
75 (1.10) 
150 (2.21) 
620 (9.12) 
60 (0.88) 
197 (2.90) 
633 (9.32) 
71 (1.04) 
0.886 (0.701,1.118) 
0.757 (0.672,0.853) 
1.016 (0.712,1.451) 
0.953 (0.781,1.164) 
0.757 (0.673,0.852)    
1.055 (0.763,1.460)     
<.001 
0.307 
<0.001 
0.930 
0.639 
<0.001 
  0.745   
Abbreviations:  ACS = acute coronary syndromes; CI = confidence interval; CV = cardiovascular; MI = myocardial infarction; N = number 
of randomly assigned subjects; n = number of subjects in sub-category; NSTEMI = non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction; STEMI = ST-
segment elevation myocardial infarction; UA = unstable angina. 
aPercentage of randomly assigned subjects reaching the primary endpoint. 
bHazard ratio and a 95% CI used as an estimate of overall relative risk, prasugrel versus clopidogrel, over the course of the study. 
cTwo-sided p-values are based on Gehan–Wilcoxon test comparing event free survival distributions of prasugrel and clopidogrel for the 
composite primary endpoint.  The individual components of the endpoints were tested using log-rank test. Clinical presentation, 
UA/NSTEMI versus STEMI, was used as a stratification factor in analysis involving All ACS subjects.   
Efficacy  was  preserved  across  major  pre-specified  subgroups:  sex,  age  (older  or  younger  than  65 
years),  history  of  diabetes,  type  of  stent  employed,  use  of  glycoprotein  inhibitors,  mono-  or  poly 
antithrombin  use,  dose  of  aspirin,  renal  function,  geographical  region.  The  treatment  benefit  was 
durable. The incidence  of primary  and  secondary  composite  endpoints  was  statistically  significantly 
lower in subjects treated with prasugrel compared to clopidogrel in the acute phase (within 3 days), the 
subacute phase (within 30 days), and in the long-term phase. 
35/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary Outcome Events in Study TAAL – All ACS population 
Outcome Events 
CV death, nonfatal MI or nonfatal stroke 
through 90 days 
CV death, nonfatal MI or nonfatal stroke 
through 30 days 
CV Death, Nonfatal MI or urgent target vessel 
revascularisation (UTVR) through 90 days 
CV death, nonfatal MI, or UTVR through 30 
days 
All cause death, nonfatal MI, or nonfatal stroke 
through study end 
CV death, nonfatal MI, nonfatal stroke or 
rehospitalisation for cardiac ischemic event  
through study end 
prasugrel  
+ ASA 
(N=6813) 
% 
6.8 
Clopidogrel 
+ASA 
(N=6795) 
% 
8.4 
5.7 
6.9 
5.9 
10.2 
11.7 
7.4 
8.7 
7.4 
12.1 
13.8 
Hazard Ratio  
(95% CI) 
p-
value 
0.797 (0.705,0.901)    <0.001  
0.767 (0.672,0.876)    <0.001  
0.794 (0.703,0.896)    <0.001  
0.784 (0.688,0.894)    <0.001  
0.831 (0.751,0.919)    <0.001  
0.838 (0.762,0.921)    <0.001  
    0.9   
 1.9 
0.494 (0.361, 0.677) 
<0.001   
Definite or probable stent thrombosis through 
study enda 
a N=6422 for EFIENT and N=6422 for clopidogrel. 
Ancillary analyses 
Elderly patients and patients with weight <60 kg  
Analyses of the risk for TIMI bleeding by different weight and age cut-offs in study TAAL indicate 
that the odds ratio for bleeding with 10 mg prasugrel increases around the weight limit of less than 60 
kg  and  age  limit  of  greater  than  or  equal  to  75 years.  The  additional  analyses  presented  suggest  an 
increased bleeding risk associated with weight < 60 kg and age ≥ 75 years and the CHMP raised this 
as a major objection regarding the proposed reduced 5 mg MD in these two populations.. However, 
patients over 75 years of age weighing more than 60 kg did not seem to have an increased prasugrel 
exposure to the same extent as in patients weighing <60kg. This issue was also addressed in the oral 
explanation held at the CHMP. The results of the analysis conducted via a PK/PD model to evaluate 
the dose 5 mg in patients < 60 kg or > 75 years of age need clinical confirmation and the Company is 
conducting such studies as part of the follow-up measures..  
36/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
Comparison of 10-mg Prasugrel Exposure by Weight and Age Categories - Study TAAL 
Group 
≥60kg and <75years 
<60kg and <75years 
<60kg and ≥75years 
≥60kg and ≥75years 
Abbreviations:  CI = confidence interval; G-Mean = geometric least square mean; N = number of subjects in the specified subgroup. 
aversus ≥60 kg and <75 years 
1.254 (1.105, 1.422) 
1.569 (1.252, 1.965) 
1.163 (1.079, 1.253) 
N 
996 
36 
11 
110 
Mean Age 
(years) 
58 
60 
80 
79 
Mean 
Weight (kg) 
85 
54 
53 
78 
Ratio of Geometric 
Mean (90% CI)a 
G-Mean 
AUC 
(ng*hr/mL) 
81.3 
101.9 
127.5 
94.5 
The  question  of  the  proposed  reduction in  the  maintenance  dose  of  prasugrel  by  one  half  in  elderly 
patients (> 75 years) to reduce the risk of bleedings while not compromising the efficacy of the drug 
was discussed by the Scientific Advisory Group requested by the CHMP. This was also addressed at 
the oral explanation.  Based on the increased risk of bleeding in patients > 75 years of age treated with 
a  10  mg  maintenance  dose,  a  very  strong  wording  in  the  SPC  is  implemented,  stating  that  use  in 
patients >75 years of age is generally not recommended and advising caution for the use of prasugrel 
in the elderly >75 years (i.e. individual benefit/risk evaluation and reduced maintenance dose of 5 mg). 
Although,the evidence for a 5 mg dose is based only on PK/PD analyses and no clinical data currently 
exist on the safety of this dose in the very elderly, it is believed that the treatment option in specifically 
selected  and  evaluated  elderly  patients  at  increased  risk  for  ischemic  events  should  be  open  after  a 
careful, individual risk benefit evaluation. 
In addition, reliable risk minimisation measures must be put in place and safety and efficacy data from 
clinical trials with this sub-population must be provided to the CHMP, as stated in the list of follow up 
measures. Adequate educational strategies prepared along with the scientific societies are to be put in 
place as requested by the CHMP as a condition for the safe and effective use of this medicinal product. 
•  Clinical efficacy results in special populations 
In-stent thrombosis 
Applying  the  ARC  definitions  (which  included  angiographic  and  clinical  principles),  there  was  a 
significant reduction in stent thrombosis in the prasugrel group including both reductions in early (<30 
days)  and  late  (≥  30  days)  stent  thrombosis  that  was  consistent  in  the  3  populations  (UA/NSTEMI, 
STEMI, and All ACS). The RRR observed in both UA/NSTEMI and STEMI groups it is stated to be 
of nearly a 50%. A significant reduction in the rate of the incidence of the primary endpoint was found 
among  patients  receiving  prasugrel  in  combination  with  bare-metal  stents  (9.37%  P  vs.  11.59%  C) 
alone and in those receiving prasugrel in combination with at least one drug-eluting stent  (8.67% P vs. 
10.86%  C).  A  lower  incidence  in  the  need  of  urgent  target-vessel  revascularization  in  the  prasugrel 
group was also found.  
Previous stroke/TIA 
From  the  multivariate  analysis  the  only  risk  factors  differentially  influencing  the  primary  efficacy 
endpoint for prasugrel compared with clopidogrel were prior TIA or stroke and diabetes (see below). 
In particular, primary endpoint results in the All ACS population in those that had a prior history of 
TIA or stroke seem to favour clopidogrel. (prasugrel N 262 n 47 (17.94%) vs clopidogrel N 256 n 35 
(13.67%) HR 1.375 CI 95% (0.886, 2.132) p= 0.153). Also, a higher incidence of nonfatal stroke and 
all stroke either hemorrhagic or non-hemorrhagic, when compared with clopidogrel (nonfatal stroke: 
5.73%  versus  0.78%,  p-value  =.002;  all  stroke:  6.49%  versus  1.17%,  p-value  =.002)  was  observed. 
These patients with prior TIA or stroke have now been contraindicated to prasugrel. 
Diabetes 
For the diabetic population the incidence of the primary efficacy endpoint (All ACS, prasugrel N 1576  
n 180 (11.42%) vs clopidogrel N 1570  n 248 (15.80%) HR 0.709 CI 95% (0.582, 0.854) p= 0.001) 
and  each  secondary  efficacy  composite  endpoint  was  lower  in  subjects  randomized  to  prasugrel 
compared to subjects randomized to clopidogrel in all 3 populations (UA/NSTEMI, STEMI, and All 
ACS). Recently published clinical results have suggested that subjects with diabetes may have greater 
37/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
platelet  reactivity  and  a  lower  antiplatelet  response  during  clopidogrel  treatment.    In  contrast,  the 
current  observations  suggest  that  in  subjects  with  stable  CAD  (study  TABR  and  TABL),  prasugrel 
treatment  provided  consistent  levels  of  platelet  inhibition  in  those  with  and  without  diabetes.  It  is 
proposed that more potent platelet inhibition with prasugrel may result in improved clinical outcomes 
in ACS subjects with diabetes.  
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Regarding  clinical  relevance  and  general  interpretation  of  the  results  in  the  context  of  current 
evidence,  study  TAAL  could  be  large  enough  to  address  separately  the  thienopyridine-mediated 
platelet  inhibition  in  the  two  major  presentation  forms  of  acute  coronary  syndrome  (that  is, 
UA/NSTEMI and STEMI). The median time from onset of qualifying symptoms to randomization in 
study  TAAL  in  subjects  presenting  with  UA/NSTEMI  was  28.9  and  29.0  hours  for  patients 
randomized  to  prasugrel  or  clopidogrel  treatment,  respectively.  Upper  quartiles  were  48.6  and  49.0 
hours,  respectively.  In  study  TAAL,  all  patients  with  UA/STEMI  were  randomized  after  coronary 
pathoanatomy  was  known,  i.e.  after  coronary  angiography.  The  strategy  of  administering  the 
thienopyridine LD once coronary anatomy is known appears to be preferred because of concerns about 
surgical bleeding in patients treated with clopidogrel that subsequently undergo CABG surgery. It is 
acknowledged that the optimum timing of platelet inhibition with a thienopyridine has been debated in 
recent years. The benefits of the early administration of clopidogrel before PCI does not come from 
randomised  clinical  trials  primarily  aimed  to  this  end,  but  from  post-hoc  subgroup  analyses  and 
observational studies. 
The primary objective of study TAAL was to test the hypothesis that prasugrel co-administered with 
aspirin was superior to clopidogrel co-administered with aspirin in the treatment of subjects with acute 
coronary  syndromes  (ACS)  who  were  to  undergo  percutaneous  coronary  intervention  (PCI),  as 
measured by a reduction in the composite endpoint of cardiovascular (CV) death, nonfatal myocardial 
infarction (MI), or nonfatal stroke at a median follow-up of at least 12 months.  It was pre-specified 
that  the  primary  endpoint  was  analyzed  first  in  subjects  with  unstable  angina  and  non-ST-segment 
elevation myocardial infarction. Efficacy superiority of prasugrel has been fully demonstrated for the 
primary  and  all secondary endpoints.  As  mentioned  earlier,  the timing  of  prasugrel  LD treatment  in 
study  TAAL  deviated  from  the  present  treatment  guidelines  and  this  initially  raised  objection  was 
addressed by presenting several lines of evidence from study TAAL, all of which suggested that the 
timing of clopidogrel LD did not substantially influence the overall efficacy (or safety) of prasugrel 
observed  in  this  trial.  It  was  noted  that  for  subjects  treated  with  GPIIb/IIIa  inhibitors,  there  was  no 
evidence  that  the  relative  benefit  for  prasugrel  versus  clopidogrel  was  reduced  or  that  there  was  an 
excess  need  for  bail  out  GPIIb/IIIa  inhibitor  use  during  PCI  in  those  patients  randomised  to 
clopidogrel in the TAAL study. This observation could indirectly indicate that the timing of study drug 
LD did not substantially influence overall efficacy. Furthermore, when study drug LD is administered 
before or during PCI, both clopidogrel and prasugrel would be at their near-maximal levels of platelet 
inhibition achievable by the LD in the early hours following the PCI. This claim is well supported by 
pharmacokinetic  data  and  ex  vivo  platelet  inhibitory  activity  for  prasugrel  and  clopidogrel,  and 
supports that the timing of study drug LD did not substantially influence the overall efficacy. Stronger 
evidence  for  this  position  originates  in  the  subgroup  analysis  of  patients  pre-treated  with 
thienopyridine. In study TAAL, if coronary anatomy was determined or primary PCI for STEMI (≤12 
hours)  was planned, pre-treatment  with  study  drug  was  allowed  for  up to  24  hours  before  PCI.  The 
percentage  of  subjects  in  this  pre-treated  subgroup  reaching  the  composite  endpoint  of  CV  death, 
nonfatal  MI,  or  nonfatal  stroke  from  randomisation  through  study  end  was  9.94  and  11.29, 
respectively,  for  subjects  pre-treated  with  prasugrel  or  clopidogrel.  Although  not  statistically 
significant for this subgroup, the difference rather strongly favours the notion that that the timing of 
study  drug  LD  to  a  large  extent  did  not  influence  overall  efficacy.  Additional  examination  of  the 
subgroup data shows that the predominant benefit of being randomised to prasugrel treatment is not 
evident  in  the  reduction  in  peri-procedural  MI,  a  time  when  prasugrel  would  presumably  have  the 
greatest early advantage, but rather in the reduction in subsequent clinical MI. It is acknowledged that 
this observation also supports the position that timing of study drug LD is not crucial to the overall 
efficacy.  Finally,  the  analysis  of  long-term  clinical  benefits  in  Study  TAAL  confirms  the  lack  of 
influence of timing of study drug on efficacy. Considering all of these lines of evidence, it is unlikely 
38/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
that  timing  of  study  drug  LD  had  major  importance  to  the  overall  efficacy  demonstrated  in  Study 
TAAL. 
Regarding  the subjects  presenting  with  STEMI,  the  number  and  percentage  of  subjects reaching  the 
primary composite endpoint were 174/1769 (9.84%) and 216/1765 (12.24%) for those randomized to 
prasugrel or clopidogrel, respectively, (HR=0.793 (95% CI 0.649-0.968)). The treatment benefit was 
durable;  at  3  days,  at  30  days,  and  at  study  end.  Regarding  possible  effects  of  prior  fibrinolytic 
treatment,  the  percentage  of  subjects  reaching  the  composite  endpoint  was  6.4%  and  8.7% 
(randomized to prasugrel or clopidogrel, respectively) if fibrinolytic therapy was used before PCI. The 
corresponding percentages if fibrinolytic therapy was not used were 10.2% and 12.7%. There was no 
significant  statistical  interaction  between  the  treatment  benefit  observed  with  prasugrel  and  prior 
treatment  with  a  fibrinolytic  agent  in  those  presenting  with  STEMI.  It  is  therefore  unlikely  that  the 
efficacy  benefit  with  prasugrel  in  subjects  presenting  with  STEMI  was  influenced  by  the 
administration  of  a  fibrinolytic  agent  prior  to  PCI.  There  was  a  lower  incidence  of  the  primary 
composite  endpoint  in  subjects  randomized  to  prasugrel  compared  to  clopidogrel  in  the  STEMI 
population undergoing primary (≤12 hours) PCI (10.06 % versus 11.50%; HR=0.872; p=.266). In the 
STEMI  population  undergoing  delayed  (>12  hrs)  PCI  the  corresponding  values  were  9.40 %  versus 
13.96%; HR=0.649; p=.015. Initially, these data suggest that patients presenting with STEMI late after 
symptom  onset  benefit  from  prasugrel  treatment  in  particular.  However,  these  patients  were  in 
principle  handled  like  patients  with  UA/NSTEMI,  i.e.  they  were  randomised  and  received  study 
treatment after diagnostic coronary angiography. In addition, the description of the primary endpoint 
was  simplified  in  the  wording  of  the  indication  to  increase  the  clarity,  but  data  on  each  of  the 
individual components of the primary endpoint is retained in the SPC in a relevant section. 
For some patients at special risk (very elderly >75 years, patients weighing < 60 kg) dose reduction is 
suggested. After an LD of 60 mg, an MD of 5 mg once daily is recommended, but these patients were 
not  adequately  studied  with  a  5  mg  maintenance  dose.  These  considerations  formed  the  basis  of  a 
major  objection  raised  by  the  CHMP.  New  safety/efficacy  analyses  based  on  the  active  metabolite 
exposure and PK/PD simulations were presented in the CHMP oral explanation and were conducted in 
order to support the proposed reduction to a 5 mg prasugrel MD in subjects <60 kg or ≥ 75 years of 
age. The reduction of the dose is proposed for the following reasons:  
- higher  exposure  to  the  prasugrel  active  metabolite  in  this  sub-population  associated  with  an 
increased risk of bleeding  
- bleeding  in  subjects  <60  kg  or  ≥75  years  was  predominantly  confined  to  subjects  with  the 
highest exposure 
- subjects <60 kg or ≥75 years of age with lower exposure to the active metabolite had similar 
risk of bleeding as subjects ≥60 kg or <75 years of age 
- based on the results of a predictive model, reducing the prasugrel MD to 5 mg in subjects <60 
kg  or  ≥75  years  of  age  produces  similar  exposure  as  was  observed  in  the  lowest  quartile 
exposure  in  the  overall  population  in  study  TAAL  on  the  prasugrel  10  mg  MD,  a  quartile  of 
exposure where efficacy was maintained and the risk of bleeding was lowered.  
In addition, two dedicated studies aimed to compare the PK, PD, safety, and tolerability of prasugrel in 
subjects  <60  kg  or  ≥75  years  treated  with  a  MD  of  either  prasugrel  5-mg,  prasugrel  10-mg,  or 
clopidogrel 75-mg will be conducted as part of the follow up measures. Further a post-authorisation 
study will be performed to assess the benefit/risk of prasugrel used in real life setting. Results from the 
study H7T-MC-TABY (TABY) with 10,000 randomised subject assessing the efficacy and safety of 
prasugrel compared to clopidogrel in medically managed subjects with ACS who have experienced a 
recent  UA/NSTEMI  event  will  be  made  available  to  the  CHMP  and  this  commitment  is  part  of  the 
follow up measures. The CHMP accepted the proposed dose reduction in patients weighing < 60kg. 
Although, the dose-reduction in the very elderly ≥75 years and the benefit/risk with the 5 mg MD is 
not fully clinically supported at present, it is believed that the treatment option in specifically selected 
and  evaluated  elderly  patients  at  increased  risk  for  ischemic  events  should  be  open  after  a  careful, 
individual risk benefit evaluation. 
39/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
Clinical safety 
Introduction 
The  clinical  safety  evaluation  of  prasugrel  is  primarily  based  on  the  pre-specified  primary  database 
from  the  pivotal  TAAL  study.  It  includes  data  from  13457  treated  subjects  with  acute  coronary 
syndromes  (ACS)  undergoing  percutaneous  coronary  intervention  (PCI)  who  were  treated  with 
prasugrel  (6741  subjects)  or  clopidogrel  (6716  subjects),  co-administered  with  aspirin  for  up  to  15 
months. These patients have been exposed to the proposed prasugrel dosing regimen (60-mg loading 
dose [LD]/10-mg  maintenance  dose [MD]). The  secondary  safety  database includes  data  from  the  4 
smaller  studies;  TAAD,  TAAH,  TABL,  TABR  grouped  into  “All  but  TAAL  (ABT)”,  and  Study 
TAAL  limited  to  the  first  30  days  after  first  dose  of  study  drug,  “TAAL-30”.  The  tertiary  safety 
database  comprises  the  safety  data  from  clinical  pharmacology  studies.  Two  major  populations 
contributed to the All ACS population: 
- UA/NSTEMI (clinical presentations being UA or NSTEMI within 72 hours)  
- STEMI  (clinical  presentations  being  STEMI  ≤12  hours  since  symptoms  onset  or  STEMI  >12 
hours since symptoms onset)  
The number of subjects with STEMI was capped at 3534 subjects. The majority of subjects in the All 
ACS  population  were  male  (74%)  and  Caucasian (92%). The  mean  age  was  61  years and the  mean 
weight  was  83  kg.  The  geographic  region  of  origin  was  Europe  in  approximately  50%  and  North 
America in 32%.  
•  Patient exposure 
A  total  of  8656  subjects  (6741  from  the  primary  safety  database,  940  from  the  secondary  safety 
database and 975 from the tertiary safety database) have been exposed to at least 1 dose of prasugrel 
across all completed clinical and clinical pharmacology studies. The overall exposure to prasugrel in 
the  primary  safety  database  was  6483  subject-years.  More  than  half  of  the  subjects  treated  with 
prasugrel  were  exposed  for  more  than  1  year.  For  the  primary  safety  database  “while  at  risk”  was 
defined as the period from first study drug administration through 7 days after permanent study drug 
discontinuation (the termination visit) or through 464 days after randomisation, whichever came first. 
•  Adverse events  
In the primary safety database, treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were reported in 80.34% 
of  prasugrel  treated  patients  and  80.02%  of  clopidogrel  treated  patients.  Clinically  significant  AEs 
were  also  pre-specified  apart  from  CEC  adjudicated  bleeding  endpoints,  and  included  AEs  of 
particular  interest  (thrombocytopenia,  thrombotic  thrombocytopenic  purpura  [TTP],  neutropenia, 
leucopenia,  pancytopenia,  torsades  de  pointes/QT  prolongation,  allergic  reactions,  and  abnormal 
hepatic  function).  No  statistically  significant  difference  between  treatments  was  observed  for  these 
clinically significant TEAEs (not either for TEAEs and SAEs) when the analysis was limited to the 
first  3  days  (prasugrel  3.16%, clopidogrel  2.75%)  or  the  first 30  days  (prasugrel  5.34%,  clopidogrel 
5.0%). The majority of drug related adverse events were related to bleeding and the risk was higher 
with prasugrel than with clopidogrel. 
Hemorrhagic  AEs  occurred  with  a  statistically  significant  higher  incidence  in  the  prasugrel  treated 
patients compared to clopidogrel, 29.70% vs 22.04% (p<0.001). Both CEC- adjudicated non-CABG-
related  TIMI  Major  Bleeding,  TIMI  Major  or  Minor  Bleeding  and  TIMI  Major,  Minor,  or  Minimal 
Bleeding  were  statistically  significantly  increased  in  prasugrel  vs.  clopidogrel  patients  (2.17%  vs. 
1.65%,  4.49%  vs.  3.44%,  and  10.86%  vs.  7.86%,  respectively).  Though  numbers  of  patients 
undergoing CABG were small (213 in the prasugrel group, 224 in the clopidogrel group), it appeared 
that  the  risk  of  CABG  related  TIMI  Major  or  Minor  Bleeding  was  approximately  tripled  in  the 
prasugrel  arm  (30  patients  [14.08%]  vs.  10  patients  [4.46%],  p<0.001).  The  overall  distribution  of 
hemorrhagic  TEAEs  and  the  higher  incidence  of  hemorrhagic  TEAEs  in  prasugrel  and  clopidogrel 
treated patients, respectively, was comparable between the UA/NSTEMI subgroup (prasugrel 29.95%, 
clopidogrel 22.21%), and the STEMI subgroup (prasugrel 28.97%, clopidogrel 21.54%). Nevertheless, 
although the number of STEMI patients receiving fibrinolytic treatment was small, the bleeding events 
were  comparable  between STEMI  patients  who received  fibrinolytic  treatment and  the  patients  who 
did not receive fibrinolytic treatment.  In addition, the efficacy benefit seen with prasugrel treatment in 
40/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
the  STEMI  population,  was  not  outweighed  by  bleeding  complications  in  STEMI  sub-population  of 
patients  managed  with  delayed  PCI.  In  order  of  descending  frequency,  contusion,  haematoma, 
epistaxis, ecchymosis, vessel puncture site haematoma, puncture site haemorrhage, haematuria, and GI 
haemorrhage  were the  common  (≥1%)  hemorrhagic  ADRs  associated  with  prasugrel  therapy.  In  the 
secondary  safety  database,  the  overall  incidence  of  hemorrhagic  events  was  higher  in  ABT  versus 
TAAL-30  for  both  treatment  groups  (ABT:  prasugrel  35.74%,  clopidogrel  20.66%;  TAAL-30: 
prasugrel  18.29%,  clopidogrel  14.34%).  This  was  primarily  due  to  the  incidence  of  catheter  site 
haematoma, catheter site haemorrhage, contusion, and epistaxis.  
Non-haemorrhagic AEs occurred with a similar frequency in the two treatment groups (77.33% with 
prasugrel  and  77.86%  with  clopidogrel);  statistically  significant  differences  were  seen  for  coronary 
revascularisation, fatigue, MI, constipation, musculoskeletal pain, cardiac failure (more frequent with 
clopidogrel) and for pyrexia and  tendency to bruise (more frequent with prasugrel). The incidence of 
infections was similar between the two treatment groups. It is believed that the observed differences in 
the  incidence  of  pyrexia  are  in  part  due  to the  higher  incidence  of  bleeding  in  subjects  treated  with 
prasugrel, who more frequently received transfusions. Additionally, the causality relationship between 
rash and prasugrel could not be excluded. The issues have been adequately addressed in the RMP as a 
potential risk and pharmacovigilance measures will be implemented. 
Colon cancer was an uncommon TEAE (0.17% with prasugrel, 0.03% with clopidogrel) that occurred 
with a statistically significant higher incidence (p=.013) in subjects treated with prasugrel. Of the 19 
reports from the prasugrel group, 10 were diagnosed as a result of a diagnostic procedure following a 
gastrointestinal  bleeding.  On  the  basis  of  these  findings,  it  was  concluded  that  colon  cancer  was 
diagnosed  more  often  in  subjects  treated  with  prasugrel  due  to  a  higher  rate  of  bleeding  associated 
with this therapy.  
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Deaths 
The  overall  incidence  of  all-cause  deaths  was  similar  between  the  treatment  groups  in  the  primary 
database  (clopidogrel  2.90%,  prasugrel  2.76%).  The  majority  of  deaths  were  cardiovascular  deaths 
(prasugrel  1.95%  vs  clopidogrel  2.21%).  In  the  UA/NSTEMI  subpopulation,  a  numerically  higher 
overall  mortality  was  observed  in  the  prasugrel  treatment  group  compared  to  clopidogrel.  However, 
the  explanation  is  acceptable  that  the  observed  numerical  increase  in  overall  mortality  in  prasugrel-
treated  patients  with  UA/NSTEMI  (9  more  deaths)  cannot  be  disentangled  from  the  recognised 
increased risk of bleeding associated with prasugrel. Elderly patients constitute an especially sensitive 
population  regarding  bleeding  risk,  and  explain  most,  if  not  all,  of  the  numerically  differences  in 
mortality observed in the UA/NSTEMI population.  
There was a higher incidence of deaths due to haemorrhage in prasugrel treated patients  (both ICH 
(prasugrel  9  (0.13%)  vs  clopidogrel  5  (0.07%)  and  non-ICH  (prasugrel  9  (0.13%)  vs  clopidogrel  1 
(0.01%)) in the All ACS population (see below). The SPC was revised to state the increased risk of 
major,  life-threatening  and  fatal  bleeding  associated  with  the  use  of  prasugrel  as  compared  to 
clopidogrel in the UA/NSTEMI  and All ACS populations. 
41/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
Summary of Deaths in Study TAAL; All Randomized All ACS Subjects 
Prasugrel 
N=6813 
n (%)a 
188 
181 
Clopidogrel 
N=6795 
n (%)a 
197 
186 
Total 
N=13608 
n (%)a 
385 
367 
Deaths All ACS Population 
Deaths during study periodb 
     Deaths in treated subjects 
     Deaths in subjects not treated with study 
drug 
7 
3 
191 
     Deaths outside of the study periodb 
All Total Deathsc 
Clinical Endpoints Committee Adjudicated Deaths 
All Cause Deathc  
Cardiovascular Death 
     Atherosclerotic Vascular Diseased 
     CHF/Cardiogenic Shock 
     Directly related to revascularizatione  
     Dysrhythmia 
     Pulmonary Embolism 
     Myocardial Infarction 
     Sudden or Unwitnessed 
     Intracranial Hemorrhage 
     Non-Hemorrhagic Stroke 
     Other Cardiovascular 
Non-Cardiovascular Death 
     Accidental/Trauma 
     Nonintracranial Hemorrhage 
     Infection 
     Malignancy 
     Suicide 
     Other Non-Cardiovascular 
188 (2.76) 
133 (1.95) 
0 
31 (0.46) 
15 (0.22) 
4 (0.06) 
3 (0.04) 
24 (0.35) 
36 (0.53) 
9 (0.13) 
5 (0.07) 
6 (0.09) 
55 (0.81) 
4 (0.06) 
9 (0.13) 
11 (0.16) 
21 (0.31) 
3 (0.04) 
7 (0.10) 
11 
0 
197 
18 
3 
388 
197 (2.90) 
150 (2.21) 
3 (0.04) 
30 (0.44) 
16 (0.24) 
7 (0.10) 
0 
36 (0.53) 
42 (0.62) 
5 (0.07) 
6 (0.09) 
5 (0.07) 
47 (0.69) 
4 (0.06) 
1 (0.01) 
10 (0.15) 
17 (0.25) 
2 (0.03) 
13 (0.19) 
385 (2.83) 
283 (2.08) 
3 (.0002) 
61 (0.45) 
31 (0.23) 
11 (0.08) 
3 (0.02) 
60 (0.44) 
78 (0.57) 
14 (0.10) 
11 (0.08) 
11 (0.08) 
102 (0.75) 
8 (0.06) 
10 (0.07) 
21 (0.16) 
38 (0.28) 
5 (0.04) 
20 (0.15) 
Abbreviations:  ACS = acute coronary syndromes; CHF = coronary heart failure; PCI = percutaneous coronary intervention; UA = unstable 
angina. 
a  % is percentage of randomized subjects.   
b  Study period = from randomization through a subject’s study termination or 464 days from randomization, whichever was earlier. 
c  There are a total of  388 deaths during the study, with 3 deaths occurring outside the study period, which were listed in the row of 
"Deaths outside of study period."  Therefore, “All total deaths” and “All Cause deaths” differ by 3 subjects. 
d  Atherosclerotic vascular disease excludes deaths from coronary vascular disease. 
e  Death is directly related to hemorrhagic or non-hemorrhagic complications of revascularization (CABG or PCI). 
Fatal haemorrhages 
Overall,  in  the  All  ACS  population  fatal  hemorrhagic  events  (including  CABG-related  and  Non-
CABG-related bleeding events) occurred in 24 subjects (0.36%) in the prasugrel treatment group and 6 
subjects (0.09%) in the clopidogrel treatment group. The majority (21/24 deaths in prasugrel patients, 
5/6 deaths in clopidogrel patients) were non CABG related TIMI  major bleedings during the at risk 
period.  Non  CABG-related  spontaneous  intracranial  and  gastrointestinal  (GI)  bleedings  were 
predominant  (prasugrel:  spontaneous  fatal  bleedings  in  16  patients,  hereof  8  intracranial  and  6  GI 
bleedings;  clopidogrel:  spontaneous  fatal  bleedings  in  4  patients,  4  intracranial  and  1  GI  bleeding). 
Non-CABG  related  instrumented  fatal  bleedings  were  only  seen  in  the  prasugrel  group  (4  patients). 
The incidence of fatal bleedings was also statistically significant in the UA/NSTEMI prasugrel group. 
The  same  pattern  was  observed  in  the  STEMI  population  but  due  to  insufficient  data  the  statistics 
could  not  be  evaluated  (prasugrel:  7  patients,  0.40%,  clopidogrel  2  patients  0.12%).  There  were  no 
fatal hemorrhagic events in the secondary and tertiary databases. 
SAEs  
Serious adverse events occurred in 24.70% of prasugrel and 24.26% of clopidogrel treated patients in 
the primary database. The incidence of non-hemorrhagic SAEs was similar in the prasugrel (22.48%) 
and the clopidogrel (22.80%) group. Most frequent were non-cardiac chest pain, coronary artery re-
42/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
stenosis,  chest  pain  and  angina  pectoris.  Three  non-haemorrhagic  SAEs  that  occurred  differentially 
among  treatment  groups  were  the  higher  incidence  in  the  prasugrel  group  of  colon  cancer, 
hypotension, and respiratory failure (which was finally related to the simultaneous occurrence of blood 
loss).  The  incidence  of  hemorrhagic  SAEs  in  the  All  ACS  population  while  at  risk  was  statistically 
significantly  higher  in  subjects  treated  with  prasugrel  when  compared  to  subjects  treated  with 
clopidogrel.  Likewise,  in  the  UA/STEMI  group  the  incidence  of  hemorrhagic  SAEs  with  prasugrel 
was statistically significantly higher (prasugrel 6.08% vs clopidogrel 4.06%). In the STEMI population 
the  incidence  was  numerically  higher  though,  not  statistically  different  (5.34%  vs.  4.26%).  Non-
CABG related TIMI Major Bleedings (including life threatening and fatal bleedings), TIMI Major or 
Minor, and TIMI Major, Minor, or Minimal Bleedings were all significantly  higher in the prasugrel 
treated subjects compared to the clopidogrel treated subjects in the All ACS population.  
Incidence  of  Bleeding  Events—Clinical  Events  Committee  Adjudicated  –  Primary  Safety 
Database (Study TAAL) All ACS 
Abbreviations: ACS = acute coronary syndromes; CABG = coronary artery bypass graft surgery; CI = confidence interval; HR = 
hazard ratio; ICH = intracranial hemorrhage; IV = intravenous; Min = minimal; N = number of subjects in the specified subgroup; 
n = number of subjects within the specified subgroup reaching the endpoint; NE = not evaluated due to insufficient sample size; 
NSTEMI = non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction; STEMI = ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction; TIMI = 
Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction; UA = unstable angina. 
a Subjects experiencing multiple bleeding events may be included in more than one category. 
b HR and two-sided 95% CI derived using Cox proportional hazards model. 
c Two-sided log-rank p-value based on time to first event analysis compares the event free survival distributions for prasugrel and 
clopidogrel. Clinical presentation, UA/NSTEMI versus STEMI, was used as a stratification factor in analyses of All ACS subjects. 
d Bleeding requiring any transfusion (whole- or packed-blood). 
e Odds ratio is based on the frequency procedure. Two-sided p-values are based on Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel general association test with 
clinical presentation as a blocking factor in All ACS. 
In  the  All  ACS  population,  the  significantly  higher  incidence  of  TIMI  Major  bleedings  in  subjects 
treated  with  prasugrel  was  related  to  higher  rates  of  GI  bleeding  (prasugrel  0.93%  vs.  clopidogrel 
0.64%),  surgical  site  bleeding  (0.15%  vs.  0.01%),  and  bleeding  at  other  sites  not  pre-specified  or 
unknown  (0.13%  vs.  0.01%).  A  higher  incidence  of  retroperitoneal  bleeding  was  also  observed  in 
subjects treated with prasugrel (0.21% vs. 0.12%). Intracranial hemorrhages and puncture site bleeding 
events were similar between treatment groups (0.28% vs. 0.25% and 0.42% vs. 0.45%, respectively).  
Non-CABG-related TIMI Major and TIMI Life-Threatening bleeding events through 3 days after the 
first dose of study: The incidence in the All ACS population was numerically higher in subjects treated 
with prasugrel compared to clopidogrel (prasugrel 0.74% vs. clopidogrel 0.61% for TIMI major and 
0.43% vs. 0.31% for Life threatening bleeding), primarily related to a numerically higher incidence of 
GI bleeding which was reflected by a higher incidence of spontaneous bleeding events. Likewise, in 
the  UA/NSTEMI  population,  there  were  numerically  more  spontaneous  and  instrumented,  bleeding 
43/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
events  in  subjects  treated  with  prasugrel  compared  to  clopidogrel  through  3  days.  In  the  STEMI 
population there were no relevant differences between the 2 treatment groups. 
Non-CABG-related TIMI Major and TIMI Life-Threatening bleeding events beyond 3 days after the 
first  dose  of  study:  The  incidence  was  statistically  significantly  higher  in  subjects  in  the  All  ACS 
population treated with prasugrel compared to clopidogrel (1.45% vs. 1.05% for TIMI major, 0.84% 
vs. 053% for TIMI life threatening bleeding), primarily driven by a numerically higher incidence of GI 
bleeding  (0.78%  vs  0.59%),  surgical  site  bleeding  (0.10%  vs  0.02%),  and  bleeding  at  sites  not  pre-
specified  or  unknown  (0.10%  vs  0%).  A  higher  numerical  incidence  of  retroperitoneal  bleeding 
(0.09% vs 0.03%) and surgical site bleeding events (0.10% vs. 0.02%) was observed with prasugrel 
compared to clopidogrel, which resulted in a statistically significant higher incidence of spontaneous 
bleeding events (1.14% vs 0.78%) and a numerically higher incidence of instrumented bleeding events 
(0.19%  vs  0.12%)  with  prasugrel  compared  to  clopidogrel.  For  the  subcategory  of  TIMI  Life-
Threatening bleeding, subjects treated with prasugrel had a statistically significant higher incidence of 
fatal bleeding (0.24% vs 0.06%) and a numerically significant higher incidence of bleeding requiring 
intravenous inotropic medication in addition to multiple transfusion units. A higher incidence in Non-
CABG-related TIMI Life-Threatening bleeding events was observed in the UA/NSTEMI population, 
but not in the STEMI population. 
The time course of TIMI major bleeding events and its subgroup Life threatening bleedings is shown 
in the following figures. 
Kaplan-Meier estimates of the incidence of Non-CABG related TIMI major bleeding events 
while at risk—CEC adjudicated for all treated All ACS subjects in primary safety database 
(TAAL). 
44/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
Kaplan-Meier estimates of the incidence of Non-CABGrelated TIMI life-threatening bleeding 
events while at risk— CEC adjudicated for all treated All ACS subjects in primary safety 
database (TAAL). 
The  Kaplan  Meier  curves  separated  early  for  Non-CABG-related  TIMI  Major  and  TIMI  Life-
Threatening bleeding events while at risk, favouring clopidogrel. Another separation is seen beyond 1 
year and potentially also at around 30 days. Multivariate analyses identified independent risk factors 
for increased occurrence of Non-CABG-related TIMI Major bleeding. These were prasugrel treatment, 
weight  <  60  kg,  age  ≥  75  years,  history  of  hypertension,  history  of  prior  TIA  or  stroke,  and  use  of 
GPIIb/IIIa inhibitor (from symptom onset through 3 days after randomization). 
Further  analyses  which  demonstrated  that  mainly  patients  at  risk  (patients  with  a  prior  history  of 
TIA/stroke, patients with body weight < 60 kg and patients ≥ 75 years of age) are responsible for the 
unfavourable  safety  profile  of  prasugrel,  were  provided  during  the  evaluation.  The  figures  below 
display  the  Kaplan  Meier  curves  for  Non-CABG  related  TIMI  Major  bleeding  events  in  the  “ideal 
population” (excluding subjects with a history of TIA or stroke, subjects ≥75 years of age taking a MD 
of 10 mg/day, or subjects <60 kg taking a MD of 10 mg/day) and in the non-ideal population (subjects 
with history of TIA or stroke, ≥75 years of age or weighing <60 kg). The difference between prasugrel 
and  clopidogrel between  30  and  90 days,  is  explained  by  the  higher  bleeding  risk  in  subjects in the 
non-ideal  population.  However,  major  bleedings  also  appear  to  accrue  beyond  1  year.  The  CHMP 
therefore  requested  to  limit  the  treatment  duration  with  prasugrel  to  12  months,  consistent  with  the 
existing treatment duration recommendation for clopidogrel in this clinical setting. 
Kaplan-Meier estimates of the incidence of non-CABG-related TIMI Major bleeding events 
while at risk – CEC adjudicated treated ACS subjects in non-ideal population (left panel) and 
treated ACS subjects in ideal population (right panel). 
45/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Considering  the  ideal  population  only,  the  rate  of  Non-CABG-related  TIMI  Major  and  Life-
Threatening  bleeding  in  prasugrel  treated  subjects  was  numerically,  but  not  statistically  higher 
compared  to  clopidogrel-treated  subjects.  The  number  of  fatal  bleeding  events  beyond  3  days  of 
treatment was 7 in prasugrel-treated subjects versus 2 in clopidogrel-treated subjects, as compared to 
21 versus 5 in the All ACS population for the entire treatment duration (“at risk period”). Three of the 
7 fatal bleeding events in prasugrel-treated subjects resulted from procedural complications, while 4 
were fatal ICH (1 traumatic). Both clopidogrel fatal events were spontaneous ICH. Consequently, the 
number of spontaneous fatal bleeding events beyond 3 days during MD was similar between treatment 
groups. During the first 3 days, CABG and non-CABG related fatal bleedings were as follows:  one 
fatal bleeding occurred in the clopidogrel group and 6 fatal bleedings (3 each from UA/NSTEMI and 
STEMI) occurred in the prasugrel group. Four of these patients belonged to the ideal population, and 3 
of these had an instrumented or traumatic bleeding. Major bleeding may increase the short-term risk of 
ischemic events and the risk of death. This was evident in study TAAL. In addition, it was shown that 
for the All ACS population and both treatment groups together, there was no statistically significant 
difference  between  treatment  groups  for  the  risk  of  ischemic  events  (CV  death,  CV  death/MI,  CV 
death/MI/stroke)  beyond  and  within  30  days  in  patients  having  experienced  no  major  bleed  versus 
patients  having  experienced  a  major  bleed,  although  the  risk  was  numerically  higher  for  those  with 
major  bleed.    A  comparison  of  all-cause  deaths  within  and  beyond  30  days  by  treatment  group  and 
clinical  presentation  (UA/NSTEMI,  STEMI)  shows  that  mortality  within  30  days  is  roughly 
comparable for prasugrel and clopidogrel (for the STEMI population even numerically slightly more 
favourable for prasugrel) if patients did not have a TIMI major bleeding. However, all cause death in 
patients with a TIMI major bleeding and treated with prasugrel was higher when compared to patients 
treated with clopidogrel (all ACS population 15.6% vs. 10.9% (p=0.06), similarly in the UA/NSTEMI 
and  STEMI  subgroups).  Analysis  of  the  “ideal  population”  shows  that  all  cause  death  is  still 
numerically  higher  for  prasugrel  compared  to  clopidogrel  but  the  difference  is  not  statistically 
significant (all ACS population 9.4% vs 7.3%, p=0.52). These deaths are predominantly attributable to 
fatal bleedings and the increased bleeding risk with prasugrel is clearly stated in the SPC. Beyond 30 
days, mortality is comparable for prasugrel and for clopidogrel treated patients not having had a major 
bleed. For patients with major bleed, events are too few to draw firm conclusions. .  
•  Laboratory findings 
The  safety  data  suggests  that  prasugrel  therapy  is  not  associated  with  clinically  significant 
thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, or leucopenia. The number of subjects with normal Hct, Hgb, or RBC 
at baseline, and abnormally low values at any time post-baseline, was statistically significantly higher 
in subjects treated with prasugrel compared to clopidogrel and probably reflects the higher incidence 
of bleeding events. Hepatotoxicity of prasugrel is not suggested by the laboratory data.  
•  Safety in special populations 
Renal impairment: In total, 707 patients in the prasugrel group and 769 in the clopidogrel group had a 
creatinine  clearance  ≤  60  ml/min  (measured  by  Cockroft-Gault  formula).  For  both  treatments 
(prasugrel vs clopidogrel) a higher incidence of TIMI major or minor bleeding events was observed in 
patients  with  creatinine  clearance  ≤  60  ml/min  compared  to  patients  with  normal  renal  function 
(9.48%  and  6.76%,  p=0.052  vs  3.89%  and  2.98%).  The  same  tendency  was  observed  for  life 
threatening bleeding events (2.26% and 1.04%, p= 0.059 vs. 1.09% and 0.78%). Multivariate analysis 
did  not  identify  renal  impairment  as  expressed  by  creatinine  clearance  as  a  predictor  of  higher 
bleeding risk. More than half of patients with creatinine clearance <30ml/min were also very elderly 
patients.  When  analysing  bleedings  excluding  these  patients  >75  years,  the  bleeding  risk  was  still 
elevated but not significantly different between prasugrel and clopidogrel. 
Hepatic impairment: Active metabolite exposures in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment and in 
healthy subjects are comparable. Patients with severe hepatic impairment were excluded from TAAL 
and a contraindication for these patients is included in the SPC. There were only a limited number of 
patients  with  less  severe  forms  of  hepatic  impairment  included  in  TAAL.  Although  safety  did  not 
seem to be compromised in these patients, safety conclusions must be drawn cautiously. 
Age: In total, 901subjects in the prasugrel group and 908 subjects in the clopidogrel group were ≥ 75 
years.  In  both  treatment  groups,  twice  as  many  subjects  ≥75  years  experienced  Non-CABG-related 
46/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
TIMI major or minor- (prasugrel 8.98%, clopidogrel 6.94%) as well as life-threatening bleeding events 
(prasugrel  2.58%,  clopidogrel  1.57%)  compared  to  patients  below  the  age  of  75  years.  This  was 
observed  for  both  treatment  groups.  Furthermore,  for  prasugrel-treated  patients  ≥75  years 
(UA/NSTEMI  as  well  as All  ACS), twice as  many  experienced  any  stroke  compared  to  clopidogrel 
treatment (2.89%  vs  1.43%).  A  statistically  significant  difference  was  seen  on  the  incidence  of  fatal 
bleeding  in  favour  of  clopidogrel.  Use  of  prasugrel  in  this  patient  population  is  generally  not 
recommended. If prescribed after a careful individual risk/benefit evaluation, a lower MD of prasugrel 
5  mg  should be  used (please  refer to section  on  Clinical efficacy).  Further  information  on the  5-mg 
dose in this population will be obtained from future or ongoing clinical studies. 
Prior Transient Ischemic Attack or Stroke: In total, 262 subjects of 6484 in the prasugrel group and 
256  subjects  of  6464  in  the  clopidogrel  group  had  a  prior  history  of  TIA  or  stroke.  Subjects  with a 
history of prior TIA or stroke and treated with prasugrel had a statistically significant higher incidence 
of nonfatal stroke (15/262 (5.73%) vs. 2/256 (0.78%), p<0.001) and all stroke (both, fatal and nonfatal, 
hemorrhagic  or  non-hemorrhagic)  (17/262  (6.49%)  vs.  3/256  (1.17%),  p<0.001),  when  compared  to 
clopidogrel.  A  similar, statistically  significant  pattern  was  observed  in  the  UA/NSTEMI  population, 
whereas the number of stroke events in the STEMI population with prior history of TIA/stroke was too 
low  to  allow  any  reliable  conclusions.  In  addition,  a  history  of  prior  TIA/stroke  in  the  all  ACS 
population  was  associated  with  a  higher  risk  of  Non-CABG-related  TIMI  Major  or  Minor  bleeding 
events  (Prasugrel:  20/257  (7.78%)  vs.  clopidogrel:  10/252  (3.97%),  p=0.054)  and  of  Non-CABG-
related  TIMI  Major  Life-Threatening  bleeding  events  (11/257  (4.28%)  vs.  3/252  (1.19%),  p=0.026, 
including fatal bleeding and symptomatic ICH) with prasugrel therapy. Regarding the fatal ICH, 2 out 
of  9  patients  in  the  prasugrel  group  had  a  prior  history  of  TIA/stroke  vs  0  out  of  5  patients  in  the 
clopidogrel  group.  The  higher  bleeding  risk  in  patients  with  prior  TIA  or  stroke  was  not  associated 
with  higher  exposure  during  MD.  Thus,  patients  with  a  prior  history  of  TIA  or  stroke  are 
contraindicated for prasugrel.  
Low body weight: The risk of Non-CABG-related TIMI Major or Minor bleeding events for patients 
weighing  below  60  kg  was  greater  for  prasugrel  treated  patients  compared  to  clopidogrel  treated, 
though not significantly different. However, the number of patients weighing less than 60 kg was very 
low  (664  subjects  in  total  in  both  treatment  groups).  PK  data  has  shown  that  the  active  metabolite 
exposure  increases  as  body  weight  decreases  (see  section  on  clinical  pharmacology).  A  lower 
prasugrel 5 mg MD for this subgroup could be used. A PK/PD study to investigate the 5 mg dose in 
this patient population will be conducted as part of the FUMs. 
Ethnicity:  Prasugrel  active  metabolite  exposure  in  Asian  subjects  was  43%  higher  after  a  60-mg 
prasugrel LD and 40% higher during 10-mg prasugrel MD compared to Caucasian subjects. Based on 
point  estimates  for  comparisons  between  Asians  and  Caucasians,  body  weight  accounted  for  about 
one-third of the exposure difference between the two ethnic groups. There were so few Non-CABG-
related  Major  or  Minor  bleeding  events  in  the  non-Caucasian  populations  that  a  meaningful 
comparison could not be done. A new PK/PG study in approximately 715 Asian ACS subjects in order 
to  clarify  which  could  be  the  optimal  dose  for  this  population  will  be  conducted.  Until  this  data 
become available a cautious approach is appropriate by including a warning in the SPC. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Specific in  vivo  drug-interaction studies  were conducted  with  prasugrel  and  aspirin,  ketoconazole  (a 
potent  CYP3A  inhibitor),  rifampicin  (a  potent  inducer  of  CYP3A  and  CYP2B6  and  an  inducer  of 
CYPs  2C9,  2C19,  and  2C8),  atorvastatin  (a  statin  metabolized  by  CYP3A),  warfarin  (an  anti-
coagulant  metabolized  by  CYPs  2C9  and  2C19),  heparin,  bupropion  (a  CYP2B6  substrate),  and 
digoxin (a P-glycoprotein [P-gp] substrate). The effect of smoking and alcohol consumption were also 
evaluated across clinical pharmacology studies. Overall, these analyses detected no clinically relevant 
drug interactions.  
Proton  pump  inhibitors  may  slow  the  rate,  but  not  the  extent,  of  appearance  of  prasugrel’s  active 
metabolite in plasma. Prasugrel can be co-administered with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) or a H2-
receptor  antagonist.  However,  the  SPC  was  revised  to  state  that  administration  of  the  loading  dose 
without co-administration with PPI may provide most rapid onset of action.  
47/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In the All ACS populations, overall incidence of study drug discontinuation due to treatment-emergent 
adverse events (TEAEs) was higher in subjects treated with prasugrel (462/6741 (7.15%)) compared to 
clopidogrel (390/6716 (6.02%)). The rate of discontinuation of study drug due to an AE was similar 
between treatment groups through 90 days, at which time the Kaplan-Meier curves diverge in favour 
of clopidogrel. The higher incidence of study drug discontinuation with prasugrel due to AE was 
primarily due to the higher incidence of hemorrhagic events (with GI hemorrhage (33/3741 (0.49%) 
vs. 21/6716 (0.32%)) and epistaxis (0.31% vs. 0.12%) being the most common). Atrial fibrillation 
(20/6741 (0.31%) vs. 33/6716 (0.51)) and rash (0.28% vs. 0.42%) were the non-hemorrhagic events 
leading to the highest incidence of permanent study drug discontinuation, but the rate between the 2 
treatment groups was similar. In the secondary database there were no observed treatment differences 
between prasugrel and clopidogrel in the incidence of SAEs and non-serious TEAEs leading to 
premature discontinuation of study drug. 
•  Post marketing experience 
There is currently no post-marketing experience with the use of this product. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
The  key  safety  findings  associated  with  prasugrel  treatment  were  a  statistically  higher  incidence  of 
hemorrhagic  AEs.    Adjudicated  non-CABG-related  TIMI  Major  Bleeding,  TIMI  Major  or  Minor 
Bleeding and TIMI Major, Minor, or Minimal Bleeding were statistically significantly increased in the 
prasugrel group compared to the clopidogrel group as well as fatal hemorrhagic AEs which were also 
higher in the prasugrel group. The Kaplan-Meier curves separated early for Non-CABG-related TIMI 
Major and TIMI Life-Threatening bleeding events while at risk, favouring clopidogrel. It seems that 
the curves remained parallel between 90 and 360 days. However, between 30 and 90 days as well as 
beyond 360 days, events continued to increase in subjects treated with prasugrel while a diminished 
accrual rate was seen in subjects treated with clopidogrel.  Patients for whom a 10 mg  maintenance 
dose  is  not  recommended  (those  with  a  history  of  TIA  or  stroke  –  contraindication-  ,  subjects  ≥75 
years of age taking a MD of 10 mg/day, or subjects <60 kg taking a MD of 10 mg/day) are responsible 
for the accrual between 30 and 90 days. The apparent accrual beyond 350 days cannot be explained. 
At the same time, the clinical benefit of prasugrel beyond 12 months seems not sufficiently supported 
by clinical data, this is why the CHMP has recommended that dual antiplatelet therapy with prasugrel 
should be restricted to 12 months treatment duration, in line with current clinical recommendations for 
dual antiplatelet therapy. This was also accepted by the Scientific Advisory Group of the CHMP. 
The observation that fatal bleedings were higher in the prasugrel group compared to the clopidogrel 
group  was  of  concern.  However,  the  number  of  the  spontaneous  fatal  bleeding  events  was  similar 
between treatment groups, especially considering the ideal population for whom the prasugrel 10-mg 
MD would be recommended (subjects without a history of TIA or stroke, subjects ≥75 years of age, or 
subjects <60 kg). The rate of Non-CABG-related TIMI Major or Minor bleeding events in the ideal 
population  was  not  statistically  different  between  treatment  groups  but  numerically  higher  for 
prasugrel. Though numbers of patients undergoing CABG were small, the risk of CABG related TIMI 
Major  or  Minor  Bleeding  was  approximately  tripled  in  the  prasugrel  arm,  in  particular  in  patients 
undergoing CABG within 7 days of the last dose of study drug. Bleeding events were also the primary 
reason for treatment discontinuations. 
Subgroups  associated  with  a  statistically  significant  increase  in  Non-CABG-related  TIMI  Major 
bleeding  were:    ≥75  years  old,  body  weight  <60 kg,  and  history  of  prior  TIA  or  stroke.  The  lastly 
mentioned  patients  have  been  contraindicated.  For  patients  <  60  kg  the  events were  associated  with 
higher  exposure  of  the  active  metabolite,  supporting  the  proposed  prasugrel  5-mg  MD  in  this 
subgroup.  For patients  ≥  75  years  the  events  were  partly  associated  with  increased  exposure  to  the 
active  metabolite  along  with  a  greater  susceptibility  to  bleeding.    A  dose  adjustment  strategy  was 
justified by further analyses and planned future clinical studies for both the low weight patients and 
the very elderly. The use of prasugrel in patients ≥ 75 years of age is generally not recommended. If, 
after  a  careful  individual  benefit/risk  evaluation  by  the  prescribing  physician,  treatment  is  deemed 
necessary in the ≥ 75 years age subgroup then following a 60 mg loading dose, a reduced prasugrel  
5 mg MD should be prescribed.  
48/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
The evidence for the 5 mg MD is based only on PK/PD analyses and no clinical data currently exist on 
the safety of this dose in the ≥ 75 years age group.  
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
49/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Identified Risks 
1. Haemorahage: 
(Intracranial 
haemorrhage, 
Gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage, 
Intraocular 
haemorrhage 
Percutaneous 
Coronary 
Intervention-Related 
Haemorrhage,  
Coronary Artery 
Bypass Graft-Related 
Haemorrhage 
Other Procedure-
Related 
Haemorrhage,  
Epistaxis) 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance:   
•  Contraindication for patients with history of 
monitor AEs and SAEs through 
routine clinical trial and 
spontaneous post-marketing 
surveillance. 
• 
•  Targeted surveillance for specific 
AEs preidentified for targeted 
follow-up. 
In-hospital registry to monitor 
prasugrel use and bleeding risk 
during the index hospitalisation 
compared to clopidogrel in a real 
life EU clinical setting. 
stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA) and 
for patients with active pathological bleeding 
in Section 4.3 of SPC.  
•  Section 4.2: dose adjustment for patients with 
risk factors for increased risk of bleeding: 
patients ≥ 75 years of age and patients <60 kg. 
•  Wording in sections 4.2 and 4.4 of the SPC 
regarding the restricted use of EFIENT in 
patients ≥ 75 years of age, and maintenance 
dose reduction in these patients. 
•  Caution for patients with a propensity to 
bleed, and with risk factors for an increased 
risk of bleeding (section 4.4) 
•  Caution with concomitant administration of 
medicinal products that may increase the risk 
of bleeding (section 4.4) 
•  Further recommendations to minimise the risk 
of haemorrhage, including CABG-related 
haemorrhage, are given in Section 4.4 
(Surgery) and Section 4.8 of the SPC.  Section 
4.4 of the SPC recommends discontinuation 
of EFIENT at least 7 days prior to surgery. 
•  Epistaxis is listed as ADR in Table 2, Section 
4.8 of SPC. 
•  Additional risk minimisation for patients ≥ 75 
years of age will be provided by health care 
professional education to ensure that the 
information and recommendations in the SPC are 
adequately communicated.  The MAH commits to 
work with scientific societies to develop 
educational vehicles for this purpose. 
2. Anaemia 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance:   
•  Listed as ADR in Table 2, Section 4.8 of SPC. 
monitor AEs and SAEs through 
routine clinical trial and 
spontaneous post-marketing 
surveillance. 
•  Targeted surveillance for specific 
AEs preidentified for targeted 
follow-up. 
50/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Potential Risks 
Risks associated with 
off-label use 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance:   
•  Not in proposed SPC as not confirmed signal. 
monitor AEs and SAEs through 
routine clinical trial and 
spontaneous post-marketing 
surveillance. 
•  Targeted surveillance for 
• 
specific AEs preidentified for 
targeted follow-up.  
In –hospital registry to monitor 
prasugrel use and bleeding risk 
during the index hospitalisation 
compared to clopidogrel in a 
real life EU clinical setting. 
•  Off-Label Use in Patients Post-
Discharge:  To monitor the off-
label use post-discharge in 
patients treated with prasugrel.  
The databases will capture data 
pertaining to drug utilisation to 
monitor in what patients 
prasugrel is used, and at what 
doses. 
Phototoxicity (Skin 
or Ocular) 
Drug-Induced 
Hepatic Injury 
Allergic Reactions 
Thrombocytopenia 
Neutropenia 
Thrombotic 
Thrombocytopenic 
Purpura 
As bullet 1 above. 
•  Not in proposed SPC as not confirmed signal. 
As bullets 1 and 2 above. 
•  Not in proposed SPC as not confirmed signal. 
As bullets 1 and 2 above. 
As bullets 1 and 2 above. 
As bullets 1 and 2 above. 
As bullets 1 and 2 above. 
•  Not in proposed SPC as not confirmed signal. 
•  Not in proposed SPC as not confirmed signal. 
•  Not in proposed SPC as not confirmed signal. 
•  Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC includes a 
description of this serious event. 
51/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
•  Sections 4.4 and 4.5 of the SPC contain language 
cautioning against concomitant use with these 
drugs. 
Missing 
Information 
Concomitant use with 
fibrinolytics, 
clopidogrel, and 
chronic use of 
NSAIDs (non ASA). 
•  Continue to analyse AE 
reports in clinical trials 
•  Periodically review and 
analyse safety database 
•  Any spontaneously reported 
case associated with an 
exposure condition (EC) is 
managed according to 
internal procedures for 
clarification. 
•  Safety surveillance intends to 
identify signals associated with 
the ACS subpopulations and use 
of drugs associated with an 
increased risk of bleeding.  
Concomitant drug use will also 
be monitored in the in-hospital 
registry. 
Paediatric population 
•  Continue to analyse 
•  Section 4.2 of SPC states that EFIENT is not 
recommended for use in children and adolescents 
due to a lack of data on safety and efficacy. 
•  Section 4.6 of SPC recommends a risk/benefit 
evaluation approach with regard to pregnancy, and 
does not recommend use of EFIENT during 
breastfeeding. 
Pregnant/Lactating 
women 
paediatric data from clinical 
trials  
•  Periodically review and analyse 
safety database for any potential 
post-marketing use in the 
paediatric or adolescent 
population. 
•  Continue to analyse AE 
reports in clinical trials  
•  Periodically review and 
analyse safety database for 
any potential post-marketing 
use in pregnant or lactating 
women 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance, 
targeted surveillance with 
specific follow-up form for 
pregnancy and lactation, safety 
surveillance for safety signal 
detection associated with these 
events.  Pharmacovigilance, 
targeted surveillance with 
specific follow-up form for 
exposure condition, safety 
surveillance for safety signal 
detection associated with the 
exposure condition. 
52/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of the Risk Management Plan for EFIENT (prasugrel) – concluded 
Safety concern 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Missing 
Information 
(cont.) 
Subjects without 
clinical manifestation 
of ACS or with ACS 
not managed by PCI 
(requiring immediate 
CABG or suitable for 
medical management 
only) 
Subjects with 
severely 
compromised cardiac 
status (cardiogenic 
shock, Class IV 
CHF, refractory 
ventricular 
arrhythmia) 
Subjects with severe 
hepatic impairment. 
•  Continue to analyse AE 
reports in clinical trials  
•  Periodically review and 
analyse safety database for 
any spontaneously reported 
case associated with these 
situations  
•  CAD subjects with no 
symptom of ACS may be 
detected by routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
•  Medically-managed ACS 
subjects not planned to be 
managed by PCI will be studied 
in Study TABY.   
•  Routine pharmacovigilance, 
safety surveillance for safety 
signal detection associated to 
prasugrel use in this specific 
subpopulation. 
•  Continue to analyse AE 
reports in clinical trials 
•  Periodically review and 
analyse safety database for 
any spontaneously reported 
case associated with severe 
hepatic impairment  
In –hospital registry will allow 
for identification of subjects with 
possible liver damage. 
• 
• 
Indication statement in Section 4.1 of the SPC 
includes definition of the targeted population for 
EFIENT, i.e. ACS undergoing PCI. 
• 
Indication statement in Section 4.1 of the SPC 
describes the target patient population as follows: 
o  patients with acute coronary syndrome 
(i.e. unstable angina, non-ST segment 
elevation myocardial infarction 
[UA/NSTEMI] or ST segment elevation 
myocardial infarction [STEMI]) 
undergoing primary or delayed 
percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). 
•  Contraindication for patients with “severe hepatic 
impairment (Child Pugh Class C)” in Section 4.3 
of the SPC. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the MA application is of the opinion that the 
following risk minimisation activities are necessary for the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product:  
The MAH should provide educational material to all physicians who may be involved in treating 
patients with prasugrel.  The format and means of dissemination, of this material should be discussed 
with the appropriate learned societies.  The results of the discussion, and where appropriate the 
material, should be agreed with the national competent authority and be available prior to launch in 
each member state. 
The educational material should include: 
•  A copy of the SPC 
•  Emphasis that: 
53/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o  Severe haemorrhagic events are more frequent in patients ≥ 75 years of age (including 
fatal events) or those weighing < 60 kg 
o  Treatment with prasugrel is generally not recommended for patients of ≥ 75 years of 
age. 
o  If, after a careful individual benefit/risk evaluation by the prescribing physician, 
treatment is deemed necessary in the ≥ 75 years age group then following a loading 
dose of 60 mg, a reduced maintenance dose of 5mg should be prescribed. 
o  Patients weighing < 60 kg should have a reduced maintenance dose of 5mg 
The evidence for a 5mg dose is based only on PK/PD analyses and no clinical 
data currently exist on the safety of this dose in the at risk sub groups. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
a number of quality issues that will be resolved as Follow-up Measures within an agreed timeframe. 
None of these issues is expected to have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  non  clinical  pharmacological  programme  provided  an  adequate  characterisation  of  the 
pharmacological properties of prasugrel. In ex vivo studies with rats, dogs, and cynomolgus monkeys, 
prasugrel  demonstrated  dose-dependent  inhibition  of  ADP-induced  platelet  aggregation.  The  in  vivo 
effects of prasugrel were assessed in nonclinical pathophysiological models of thrombotic challenge. 
Administration  of  prasugrel  at  clinical  doses  is  not  expected  to  produce  secondary  pharmacology 
effects related to  CNS, cardiovascular,  respiratory,  renal, or  GI  function  or to  have  an  affect  on  QT 
interval.  Additive  or  synergistic  platelet inhibitory  effects of the  co-administration  of  prasugrel  with 
aspirin have also been demonstrated. The active metabolite of prasugrel R-138727 is chiral; with two 
most  potent  enantiomers  of  R-138727  comprise  approximately  84%  of  the  metabolite  in  human 
plasma. The overall metabolism of prasugrel was thoroughly investigated.  
The  primary  effects  of  prasugrel  observed  during  repeat-dose  toxicology  studies  included  decreased 
body  weight  relative  to  control  in  rodents  that  was  occasionally  accompanied  by  decreased  food 
consumption, and increased liver weight and histologic changes in the liver considered to be related to 
microsomal enzyme induction. Prasugrel did not exhibit genotoxic properties when tested in vitro nor 
in  vivo.  The  increase  in  liver  tumours  observed  in  mice  dosed  with  prasugrel  is  not  considered  a 
relevant  human  risk,  and  this  is  adequately  reflected  in  the  proposed  prescribing  information. 
Prasugrel did not exhibit toxicity towards fertility and early embryonic development and did not show 
embryo-foetal toxicity. The SPC obtains adequate statements. 
Non-clinical and clinical data indicate that  evidence of the phototoxic potential of prasugrel is weak 
and of questionable clinical relevance. Nevertheless, phototoxicity was included as a potential risk in 
the RMP.  
A complete environmental risk assessment has been conducted for prasugrel. No likely risk has been 
identified  for  aquatic  organisms  in  either  ground  water  or  surface  water,  or  for  sediment  dwelling 
organisms. 
Efficacy 
A single pivotal superiority trial supports the use of prasugrel (60 mg LD and 10 mg MD) in patients 
with  ACS  with  scheduled  PCI.  This  study  demonstrated  that  treatment  with  prasugrel,  as  compared 
with  clopidogrel  at  the  standard  approved  dose  resulted  in  a  statistically  significant reduction  in the 
rate  of  the  primary  composite  efficacy  endpoint  of  cardiovascular  death,  nonfatal  MI,  or  nonfatal 
stroke.  The  reduction  of  the  incidence  of  primary  composite  endpoint  was  primarily  driven  by  a 
54/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reduction  in  the  number  of  cardiac  ischemic  events,  in  particular  nonfatal  MI.  These  events  are  not 
considered  to  be  harmless  periprocedural  increases  in  biochemical  markers  after  index  PCI  alone. 
Prasugrel treatment might initially protect against smaller myocardial infarctions related to index PCI, 
however, the absolute reduction of nonfatal myocardial infarction in the all ACS population continued 
to increase throughout the study period. The absolute percentage reductions were 0.94, 1.57, 1.65, and 
2.15  at  3  days,  30  days,  90  days,  and  at  study  end,  respectively.  When  similar  analyses  are  done 
separately in UA/NSTEMI and STEMI populations, continued increases in the absolute reduction of 
nonfatal myocardial infarction were also observed. This data suggests that prasugrel treatment protects 
against short-term as well as long-term cardiac ischemic events. A relative risk reduction of about 20% 
was observed in UA/NSTEMI, STEMI, and all ACS populations. The approximate 2% absolute risk 
reduction observed in these populations is considered clinically meaningful. 
Data  from  subgroup  analyses  suggest  that  patients  with  a  history  of  diabetes  mellitus  could  benefit 
from prasugrel treatment. In response to a question on this topic from the CHMP, a general discussion 
of  platelet  reactivity  and  ischemic  risk  in  diabetic  patients  in  the  setting  of  ACS  preceded  a 
presentation of clinical outcomes in subjects with diabetes mellitus in study TAAL. Diabetic subjects, 
not on insulin, had higher relative and absolute risk reduction if randomized to prasugrel, compared to 
non-diabetic patients randomized to prasugrel. Even higher risk reductions were observed in diabetic 
patients  on  insulin,  with  the  absolute  risk  reduction  (primary  efficacy  endpoint)  with  prasugrel  vs 
clopidogrel  being  6.4%.  The  relative  risk  reduction  was  37%  in  this  sub-population.  Qualitatively 
similar  effects  of  diabetic  status  were  observed  for  a  number  of  other  efficacy  endpoints.  Diabetic 
status  seems  to  affect  efficacy  and  safety  differentially,  favouring  prasugrel  treatment  in  diabetic 
subjects  in  particular.  It  is  also  acknowledged  that  consistency  of  the  efficacy  benefit  across  pre-
specified  primary  and  secondary  endpoints  supports the  notion that  the  treatment  benefit  in  diabetic 
subjects  is  not  a  chance  finding.  However,  in  contrast  the  clinical  data  indicate  that  patients  with  a 
history  of  prior  TIA  or  stroke  are  harmed  by  treatment  with  prasugrel  when  compared  to  treatment 
with  clopidogrel.  This  effect  on  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  seems  to  be  driven  primarily  by  an 
increase  in  new  strokes.  For  this  reason,  a  history  of  prior  stroke  or  TIA  is  now  listed  under 
contraindications in the SPC. 
In the < 60 kg group, a reduced maintenance dose of 5 mg following a 60 mg loading dose should be 
prescribed. If treatment is deemed necessary in the ≥ 75 years age group, a reduced maintenance dose 
of  5 mg  following  a  60 mg  loading  dose  should  be  prescribed  after  a  careful  individual  benefit/risk 
evaluation  by  the  prescribing  physician.  There  are  no  adequate  clinical  data  to  support  this 
recommendation; thus, the positive clinical outcome of this reduced maintenance dose remains to be 
seen. Further clinical studies to address this issue will be conducted. 
Safety 
The safety of prasugrel was comparable to clopidogrel with respect to the incidence of AEs, SAEs and 
deaths,  as  well  as  pre-specified,  non-hemorrhagic,  clinically  relevant  TEAEs  and  laboratory  values 
(thrombocytopenia,  neutropenia,  leucopenia,  allergic  reactions,  including  angioedema,  abnormal 
hepatic  function,  and  torsades  de  pointes/QT  prolongation).  The  overall  incidence  of  study  drug 
discontinuation was higher in the prasugrel group compared to clopidogrel (approximately 1% greater) 
primarily due to a higher incidence of hemorrhagic AEs.  
Adverse events related to haemorrhage occurred with a statistically significantly higher incidence in 
the  prasugrel  treated  patients  compared  to  clopidogrel  and  this  was  consistent  in  the  majority  of 
subgroups of bleeding events.  
Recent  clinical  studies  of  anti-thrombotic  agents  have  suggested  that  major  bleeding  events  may 
predict an increased risk of CV or non-CV death in the early weeks following the bleeding event and 
the administration of blood units are called to play a special role on this. This increased risk is also 
evident in study TAAL.  Additionally  in  this  regard,  there is ongoing  controversy  about  the  efficacy 
and  safety  of  blood  transfusions  in  the  ACS  context.  To  the  extent  that  current  recommendations 
indicate  that  in  mild  to  moderate  anaemia  (Hct  >25%  and  Hb  >8  g/dl)  blood  transfusions  may  be 
related  with  an  increase  risk  of  death  at  30  days  and  should  be  avoided  if  haemodynamically  well 
tolerated.  As  mentioned  earlier,  in  a  post  hoc  analysis  in  Study  TAAL  assessment  of  long-term 
55/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
outcomes for subjects experiencing a Non-CABG-related TIMI Major bleeding event indicated that, 
after 30 days from the event, the risk for major adverse CV events was not higher than that observed in 
subjects  not  experiencing  the  bleeding  event.  Beyond  30  days,  mortality  was  comparable  in  those 
patients who did not have a major bleeding and those who had a major bleeding. Likewise, within 30 
days, mortality was comparable for prasugrel and clopidogrel treated patients who did not experience 
a major bleeding. However, after a TIMI major bleeding, mortality (within 30 days) was significantly 
higher  for  prasugrel  treated  patients  compared  to  clopidogrel  treated  patients  for  the  All  ACS 
population  and  its  clinical  presentations  UA/NSTEMI  and  STEMI.  When  considering  only  the  so- 
called  ideal  population  (patients  without  a  history  of  TIA  or  stroke,  subjects  ≥75  years  of  age,  or 
subjects <60 kg), all cause mortality is still numerically higher after TIMI major bleeding in prasugrel 
compared  to  clopidogrel  but  the  difference  was  not  statistically  significant.  The  deaths  were 
predominantly attributable to fatal bleedings.  
Apart from the direct haemodynamic consequences of the bleeding episode, which is also associated 
with the risk of ischemic events occurring in relation to bleeding induced hypotension or transfusions, 
an important component of the risk is the potential need to interrupt the antiplatelet and antithrombotic 
drugs  which  can  lead  to  an  increase  of  ischemic  events.  In  clinical  practice  the  risk  of  interrupting 
antithrombotic  and  antiplatelet  treatments  must  be  weighed  against  the  risk  of  a  thrombotic  event, 
particularly  if  the  patient  has  been  submitted  to  revascularization  and  stent  implantation.    The  SPC 
states  that  premature  discontinuation  of  any  antiplatelet  agent  could  result  in  increased  risk  of 
ischaemic events.  Further, the SPC includes a warning that in patients with active bleeding in whom 
reversal of pharmacological effects of prasugrel is required, platelet transfusion may be appropriate.   
Colon cancer occurred with a higher incidence in patients treated with prasugrel, but this was assumed 
to be the consequence of a higher rate of detection rate due to bleeding associated with this therapy.  
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 2.5 adequately addressed these concerns 
•  User consultation 
User testing of the package leaflet was performed using methodology, which methodology follows the 
readability guideline. No revisions of the PL were made between test rounds. In conclusion, the user 
testing of this PL version is judged acceptable. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Superiority  of  prasugrel  over  clopidogrel  was  shown  in  the  clinical  setting  when  the  primary 
composite efficacy endpoint - CV death, nonfatal MI, or nonfatal stroke at a median follow-up of 14.5 
months  -  is  considered,  and  was  primarily  driven  by  a  reduction  in  MIs.  Peri-procedural  as  well  as 
spontaneous MIs were decreased with prasugrel. 
The treatment benefit associated with prasugrel was generally preserved across the major pre-specified 
subgroups. The reduction in ischemic events with prasugrel was evident regardless of the adjunctive 
therapy or stent type selected during PCI. Clinical data suggest that patients with a history of diabetes 
could benefit in particular from treatment with prasugrel. Vice versa, although not reaching statistical 
significance, the data also suggest that subjects with a history of prior TIA or stroke are harmed by 
treatment  with  prasugrel  compared  to  treatment  with  clopidogrel.  This  patient  subgroup  is 
contraindicated.  
Key  safety  issues  were  primarily  related  to  the  risk  of  bleeding.  A  statistically  higher  incidence  of 
hemorrhagic AEs was observed for prasugrel vs clopidogrel. These were related to higher rates of GI 
bleeding,  surgical  site  bleeding,  bleeding  at  other  sites  not  pre-specified  or  unknown  and 
retroperitoneal  bleeding.  Fatal  hemorrhagic  AEs  were  higher  in  the  prasugrel  group.  The  finding  of 
significantly  increased  hemorrhagic  events  in  the  prasugrel  studies  was  in  general  seen  for  the  All-
56/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
ACS population and the UA/NSTEMI population. In the STEMI subgroup incidences of the different 
hemorrhagic  events  were  in  general  numerically  higher  in  the  prasugrel  group  compared  to  the 
clopidogrel group, however, the differences were in most cases not statistically significant. Subgroups 
vulnerable  to  bleeding  were  patients  ≥75  years  old,  patients  with  body  weight  <60 kg,  and  patients 
with a history of prior TIA or stroke.  Further analyses indicated that increased mortality after TIMI 
major  bleedings  with  prasugrel  within the first  month  of  treatment  appeared  to  be  related  mainly  to 
fatal  bleedings.  The  higher  bleeding  risk  associated  with  the  use  of  prasugrel  is  appropriately 
described in the SPC and guidance has been given to minimise the use of prasugrel in populations at 
higher risk of bleeding. 
It  should  also  be  remembered  that  safety  in  a  real  clinical  setting  tends  to  be  worse  than  observed 
under controlled conditions. Attention should therefore be paid to the possible risk of ischemic events 
which may occur in relation to major bleeding events, e.g. by discontinuation of antiplatelet therapy, 
bleeding induced hypotension, or transfusions. 
For  patients  ≥  75  years,  treatment  is  generally  not  recommended.  For  selected  subgroup  of  patients 
>75  years  for  whom  prasugrel  treatment  is  deemed  necessary,  a reduced  maintenance dose  of 5  mg 
should be prescribed. Patients < 60 kg should receive a reduced maintenance dose of 5 mg. The main 
limitation of this recommendation for a prasugrel dose adjustment is the current lack of clinical data 
supporting  the  safety  and efficacy  for  the  treatment of  these  subgroups  with  a reduced  maintenance 
dose of 5 mg. Additional clinical studies to assess the 5 mg dose in the relevant at risk populations are 
necessary and are planned, as discussed earlier.  
In summary, the following table describes Number Needed to Treat (NNT) and Number Needed to 
Harm (NNH) for different subgroups. 
NNT (Primary Efficacy Outcome) and NNH (TIMI Major bleedings) - Study TAAL; All 
randomized Subjects 
57/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
NNT  
(All  death, 
MI, 
Stroke) 
52 
58 
40 
Efficacy 
Sample 
size 
13608 
10074 
3534 
NNT 
(Primary 
efficacy 1) 
49 
52 
42 
72 
44 
59 
50 
192 
47 
102 
45 
3523 
10085 
1809 
11799 
Subgroup 
All ACS 
  UA/NSTEMI 
  STEMI 
Gender 
  Female 
  Male 
Age 
  ≥75 years 
  <75 years 
Weight 
  <60 kg 
  ≥60 kg 
Region 
  North America 
  Western EU 
  Eastern EU 
Medical History 
  Diabetics 
  Non-diabetics 
  Prior TIA/Stroke 
  No 
TIA/Stroke 
Ideal population2 
1 CV death, non-fatal MI, or non-fatal stroke 
2 that is, population for whom a 10 mg MD is recommended 
3146 
10462 
518 
13090 
4310 
3553 
3322 
22 
87 
-20 
45 
23 
74 
-23 
43 
668 
12769 
35 
73 
61 
36 
70 
75 
10,804 
58 
52 
81 
48 
prior 
39 
40 
NNH 
(TIMI 
Major) 
195 
163 
444 
NNH 
(TIMI  Life-
Threatening) 
234 
186 
888 
109 
254 
110 
220 
36 
267 
328 
198 
102 
795 
159 
33 
243 
312 
226 
229 
98 
295 
81 
284 
1243 
222 
163 
313 
218 
32 
311 
368 
Sufficient evidence has been provided that the timing of clopidogrel LD, which is recommended to be 
given  immediately,  and  not,  as  in  study  TAAL  after  diagnostic  angiography,  did  not  substantially 
influence the efficacy of prasugrel vs clopidogrel.  
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns. 
(cid:131)  the following additional risk minimisation activities were required:  
The MAH should provide educational material to all physicians who may be involved in treating 
patients with prasugrel.  The format and means of dissemination, of this material should be discussed 
with the appropriate learned societies.  The results of the discussion, and where appropriate the 
material, should be agreed with the national competent authority and be available prior to launch in 
each member state. 
The educational material should include: 
•  A copy of the SPC 
•  Emphasis that: 
o  Severe haemorrhagic events are more frequent in patients ≥ 75 years of age (including 
fatal events) or those weighing < 60 kg 
o  Treatment with prasugrel is generally not recommended for patients of ≥ 75 years of 
age. 
58/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
o  If, after a careful individual benefit/risk evaluation by the prescribing physician, 
treatment is deemed necessary in the ≥ 75 years age group then following a loading 
dose of 60 mg, a reduced maintenance dose of 5mg should be prescribed. 
o  Patients weighing < 60 kg should have a reduced maintenance dose of 5mg 
The evidence for a 5mg dose is based only on PK/PD analyses and no clinical 
data currently exist on the safety of this dose in the at risk sub groups. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus decision that the risk-benefit balance of Efient  “co-administered with acetylsalicylic acid 
(ASA), for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients with acute coronary syndrome (i.e. 
unstable  angina,  non-ST  segment  elevation  myocardial  infarction  [UA/NSTEMI]  or  ST  segment 
elevation  myocardial  infarction  [STEMI])  undergoing  primary  or  delayed  percutaneous  coronary 
intervention  (PCI)”  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the    marketing 
authorisation. 
59/59 
© EMEA 2009 
 
 
 
 
