15 September 2016 
EMA/640689/2016 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Efient  
prasugrel 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000984/P46/034 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Information on the development program ............................................................... 3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study ............................... 3 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 4 
2.3.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 4 
2.3.2. Clinical study .................................................................................................... 4 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 16 
3. Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation .......................... 17 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/640689/2016  
Page 2/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 18 May 2016, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for Efient, in accordance with Article 
46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
Prasugrel hydrochloride (prasugrel) is an ADP receptor antagonist and inhibitor of platelet activation 
and aggregation mediated by the P2Y12 ADP receptor (Niitsu et al. 2005; Jakubowski et al. 2007) and 
may reduce the frequency and severity of VOC in patients with SCD. The use of prasugrel in pediatric 
patients with VOC was investigated because of the paucity of other treatment options in children and 
the prospect of preventing future irreversible organ dysfunction, which may be related to multiple 
cycles of vascular occlusion and reperfusion injury. 
The overall clinical development programme for prasugrel is co-sponsored by an alliance of Eli Lilly and 
Company (Lilly) and Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd (Daiichi Sankyo). The Marketing Authorisation for 
prasugrel was transferred in the EU from Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. to Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH on 
10th of December 2015. 
This submission concerns the completed Study H7T-MC-TADO (Study TADO) of prasugrel in paediatric 
patients with Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) with Eli Lilly and Company as sponsor. It is submitted to 
comply with the requirements of Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, as amended. Last patient 
visit occurred on 17 December 2015.  
Following SDBL and review of the topline information by Eli Lilly and Company along with the external 
TADO Steering Committee, the study was stopped as the primary and key secondary endpoints were 
not met. Sites were instructed on 16 September 2015 to stop study drug and conduct discontinuation 
visits for all active study participants within the next 60 days. A summary of safety and selected 
efficacy results from the beginning of the study, including data collected after SDBL, will be provided 
with the 120-day safety update. 
The MAH states that results of the TADO trial indicate that prasugrel did not have a positive benefit-
risk profile for the treatment of paediatric patients (aged 2 to <18 years) with SCD, due to a lack of 
efficacy (benefit) rather than in increase in safety concerns (risk). 
Because the study did not meet the primary or secondary efficacy endpoints, DSE and MAH in the EU is 
not requesting the addition of a new indication to the label, nor any changes to the SmPC or PIL as no 
new safety issues were identified. 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
At Visits 1 to 3 in the double-blind treatment period, VerifyNow® (VN)-P2Y12 reaction units (PRU) 
were measured, as required by the protocol, to titrate to the appropriate maintenance dose for each 
patient. Prasugrel was administered as a chewable tablet at a maintenance dose that targeted a PRU 
range of 231 to 136 (corresponding to an inhibition of platelet aggregation of approximately 30% to 
60%). Dosing was weight based (mg/kg) and administered daily. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/640689/2016  
Page 3/17 
 
 
 
 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
• 
Study H7T-MC-TADO: Determining Effects of Platelet Inhibition on Vaso-Occlusive Events 
(DOVE) Trial: A Phase 3, Double-Blind, Randomized, Efficacy and Safety Comparison of Prasugrel and 
Placebo in Pediatric Patients with Sickle Cell Disease. 
2.3.2.  Clinical study 
Clinical study number and title 
Study H7T-MC-TADO. Determining Effects of Platelet Inhibition on Vaso-Occlusive Events (DOVE) Trial. 
Description 
This was a Phase 3, double-blind, randomized, efficacy and safety comparison of prasugrel and placebo 
in pediatric patients with Sickle Cell Disease. It was a multicentre study conducted at 51 study sites in 
13 countries and included 55 principal investigators. 
Methods 
Objective(s) 
Primary objective 
The primary objective of this study was to assess the efficacy of prasugrel monotherapy compared to 
placebo in pediatric patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) as measured by reduction in the rate of 
vaso-occlusive crisis (VOC), which is a composite endpoint of painful crisis or acute chest syndrome. A 
painful crisis was defined as an onset of moderate to severe pain that lasted at least 2 hours for which 
there was no explanation other than vaso-occlusion and which required therapy with oral or parenteral 
opioids, ketorolac, or other analgesics prescribed by a health care provider in a medical setting such as 
a hospital, clinic, emergency room visit, or documented telephone management. Acute chest syndrome 
was defined as an acute illness characterized by fever and/or respiratory symptoms, accompanied by a 
new pulmonary infiltrate on a chest X-ray. 
Major secondary efficacy objectives 
Assess the efficacy of prasugrel compared to placebo in pediatric patients with SCD by assessment of 
the following endpoints in a fixed-sequence gatekeeping procedure: 
1.  Reduction in the rate of sickle-cell-related pain as recorded in patient pain diaries 
2.  Reduction in the rate of hospitalization for VOC 
3.  Reduction in the rate of painful crisis 
4.  Reduction in the rate of red blood cell (RBC) transfusion due to SCD 
5.  Reduction in the intensity of sickle-cell-related pain as recorded in patient pain diaries 
6.  Reduction in the use of analgesics as recorded in patient pain diaries 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/640689/2016  
Page 4/17 
 
 
 
 
7.  Reduction in the rate of acute chest syndrome 
8.  Reduction in school absence secondary to sickle-cell-related pain as recorded in patient pain 
diaries. 
Other secondary efficacy objectives 
Assess the efficacy of prasugrel compared to placebo in pediatric patients with SCD as measured by: 
• 
• 
• 
Incidence of transient ischemic attack (TIA)/ischemic stroke 
Time from randomization to first and second VOC 
Length of hospitalization for VOC. 
Safety objectives 
Assess the safety of prasugrel compared to placebo in pediatric patients with SCD as measured by: 
• 
• 
• 
The incidence of hemorrhagic events requiring medical intervention, including hemorrhagic 
stroke 
The incidence of hemorrhagic and non-hemorrhagic treatment-emergent adverse events 
(TEAEs) 
The tolerability of prasugrel compared to placebo as measured by rate of permanent study 
drug discontinuation due to hemorrhagic and non-hemorrhagic TEAEs. 
Pharmacokinetic objective 
Assess the pharmacokinetics (PK) of prasugrel in pediatric patients with SCD by characterizing the 
exposure to prasugrel active metabolite (Pras-AM). 
Pharmacodynamic objective 
•  Characterize pharmacodynamics (PD) related to the antiplatelet effects of prasugrel compared 
to placebo in pediatric patients with SCD 
• 
Evaluate in a substudy the attenuation of platelet activation by prasugrel compared to placebo 
in pediatric patients with SCD by measuring whole-blood and urine biomarkers of platelet 
activation. 
PK/PD Objective 
Assess the PK-PD relationship between Pras-AM and antiplatelet effects of prasugrel in pediatric 
patients with SCD. 
Open-label extension period objective 
• 
• 
To evaluate long-term safety of prasugrel in pediatric patients with SCD 
To evaluate long-term efficacy of prasugrel in pediatric patients with SCD. 
Study design 
Phase 3, double-blind, randomized, parallel group, multinational study in outpatient pediatric patients 
with SCD. During the double-blind treatment period, patients were titrated to once-daily doses of 
either placebo or prasugrel for a minimum of 9 months to a maximum of 24 months. There was an 
optional open-label extension (OLE) period planned; however, the OLE period of Study TADO was not 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/640689/2016  
Page 5/17 
 
 
 
 
fully implemented due to the Sponsor decision to discontinue the study for failure to meet the primary 
or secondary efficacy endpoints. 
Diagnosis and Main Criteria for Inclusion 
The main inclusion criteria were for males and female patients with SCD (homozygous hemoglobin S 
[HbSS] and heterozygous hemoglobin S beta zero [HbS β0] genotypes), 2 to <18 years of age, who 
had ≥2 episodes of VOC in the past year, and had a body weight ≥19 kg. Addendum TADO(3) allowed 
the enrollment of patients weighing 12 to <19 kg at sites that were able to accommodate cold storage 
and handling of the 0.5-mg prasugrel tablet. For sites where the 0.5-mg tablet was not available, 
Addendum TADO(6) allowed every-other-day dosing with 1-mg tablets for patients weighing 12 to <19 
kg who needed a reduction from the initial 0.08-mg/kg dose to a lower mg/kg dose that would have 
required a 0.5-mg tablet. 
The main exclusion criteria were a diagnosis of acute VOC within 15 days prior to screening, a 
concomitant medical illness that in the opinion of the investigator was associated with reduced 
survival, hepatic dysfunction characterized by alanine aminotransferase (ALT) ≥3 × upper limit of 
normal (ULN); renal dysfunction that required chronic dialysis or creatinine ≥1.2 mg/dL; 
contraindication for antiplatelet therapy; history of intolerance or allergy to approved thienopyridines; 
hematocrit <18%; met predefined bleeding risk criteria; or met prior/concomitant therapy exclusion 
criteria. Particular effort was made to exclude patients at risk for stroke. This included the requirement 
of a transcranial Doppler within the last year for all patients ≤16 years of age; exclusion of patients 
with a history of abnormal or conditional transcranial Doppler (velocity in middle or anterior cerebral, 
or internal carotid artery ≥170 cm/sec) within the last year, regardless of age; exclusion of patients 
with a history of chronic RBC transfusion for the prevention of stroke; and exclusion of patients with 
any history of TIA/stroke. 
Study population /Sample size 
Number of Patients: 
•  Planned: 220 patients: 110 prasugrel, 110 placebo (204 to complete at least 9 months of 
double-blind period) 
Treatments 
Placebo to match prasugrel was administered orally daily. Double-Blind Treatment Period: 9 to 24 
months. 
At Visits 1 to 3 in the double-blind treatment period, VerifyNow® (VN)-P2Y12 reaction units (PRU) 
were measured, as required by the protocol, to titrate to the appropriate maintenance dose for each 
patient. Prasugrel was administered as a chewable tablet at a maintenance dose that targeted a PRU 
range of 231 to 136 (corresponding to an inhibition of platelet aggregation of approximately 30% to 
60%). Dosing was weight based (mg/kg) and administered daily. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Efficacy 
•  Rate of VOC, which is a composite endpoint of painful crisis or acute chest syndrome 
•  Rate of sickle-cell-related pain as recorded in patient pain diaries 
•  Rate of hospitalization for VOC 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/640689/2016  
Page 6/17 
 
 
 
 
•  Rate of painful crisis 
•  Rate of RBC transfusion due to SCD 
• 
Intensity of sickle-cell-related pain as recorded in patient pain diaries 
•  Use of analgesics as recorded in patient pain diaries 
•  Rate of acute chest syndrome 
•  School attendance as recorded in patient pain diaries 
• 
• 
• 
Safety 
• 
• 
Incidence of TIA/ischemic stroke 
Time from randomization to first and second VOC 
Length of hospitalization for VOC. 
Incidence of hemorrhagic events requiring medical intervention, including hemorrhagic stroke 
Incidence of hemorrhagic and non-hemorrhagic TEAEs 
•  Rate of study drug discontinuation due to hemorrhagic and non-hemorrhagic TEAEs. 
Pharmacokinetics 
•  Area under the concentration-time curve for Pras-AM. 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  VN-P2Y12 and vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP) was used to measure platelet 
inhibition. 
PK/PD 
• 
PRU and/or VASP platelet reactivity index (PRI) and their relationship to area under the 
concentration-time curve for Pras-AM. 
Statistical Methods 
Efficacy 
•  Primary efficacy endpoint: The time to recurrent episodes of VOC was analyzed by the 
Andersen-Gill model with treatment as an independent variable and important prognostic 
factors of hydroxyurea use and age group (2 to <6 years, 6 to <12 years, and 12 to <18 
years) included in the model as covariates. The within-patient interdependency was accounted 
for by using the robust standard error estimates for the estimated regression parameters. 
•  Major secondary efficacy endpoints: A fixed-sequence gatekeeping testing strategy for the 
major secondary efficacy objectives was to be implemented to control the overall type I error 
rate at a 2-sided alpha level of 0.05. The major secondary efficacy endpoints were to be tested 
in the following order: (1) the reduction in the rate of sickle-cell-related pain as recorded in 
patient pain diaries versus placebo using a mixed-effects model repeated measures (MMRM) 
analysis; (2) the reduction in the hospitalization rate for VOC using the Andersen-Gill model; 
(3) the reduction in the rate of painful crisis using the Andersen-Gill model; (4) the reduction 
in the rate of RBC transfusion due to SCD using the Andersen-Gill model; (5) the reduction in 
the intensity of sickle-cell-related pain as recorded in patient pain diaries using an MMRM 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/640689/2016  
Page 7/17 
 
 
 
 
analysis; (6) the reduction in the use of analgesics using an MMRM analysis; (7) the reduction 
in the rate of acute chest syndrome using the Andersen-Gill model; and (8) the reduction in 
school absence using an MMRM analysis. 
Safety 
Safety endpoints were summarized using descriptive statistics, and treatment group comparisons were 
performed using a Fisher’s Exact test. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The PK of the measured Pras-AM concentrations was evaluated using a population PK model and/or 
non-compartmental methods. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Summary statistics were provided for each PD parameter. The comparison between treatment groups 
was carried out with the analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model and MMRM analysis. 
PK/PD 
Relationship between exposure to Pras-AM and PRU and/or PRI was evaluated by descriptive or 
population-based methods. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
•  Randomized: 341 patients: 171 prasugrel, 170 placebo 
•  Treated (at least 1 dose): 340 patients: 170 prasugrel, 170 placebo 
•  Completed 9 months of double-blind period (Visit 6): 275 patients: 135 prasugrel, 140 
placebo 
•  Completed 24 months of double-blind period: 2 patients: 0 prasugrel, 2 placebo 
One patient was enrolled in the OLE and was treated for approximately 1 month following transition 
from the double-blind treatment period. Data from the OLE period will be presented with the 120-day 
safety update. 
Overall retention during the double-blind treatment period exceeded 90% and there were no subjects 
lost to follow-up. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/640689/2016  
Page 8/17 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
The mean age was 10.6 years, with 67 patients 2 to <6 years old, 132 patients 6 to <12 years old, 
141 patients 12 to <18 years old, and 1 patient 18 years old. The majority of patients were Black or 
African American (65.3%) and half of patients were female (50.7%). Sub-Saharan Africa (Ghana and 
Kenya) constituted 43.4% of patients, and the Mediterranean Basin (Egypt, Lebanon, and Turkey) 
30.2%. The only statistically significant difference was that the prasugrel group had a higher mean BMI 
compared with the placebo group; however, the difference was relatively small (<1 kg/m2) and was 
not considered clinically meaningful.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/640689/2016  
Page 9/17 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no other significant differences in demographic or baseline characteristics between 
treatment groups. 
Almost half of the study patients (44.9%) were using hydroxyurea at baseline. Hydroxyurea use varied 
by region. The majority of patients in America and the Middle East were on hydroxyurea at baseline, 
but only 6.8% of patients in Africa were on hydroxyurea at baseline. 
The percentage of patients using hydroxyurea increased with age, with 27% of patients aged 2 to <6 
years, 36% of patients aged 6 to <12 years, and 61% of patients aged 12 to <18 years on 
hydroxyurea at baseline. 
The most common preexisting conditions were asthma (19 patients; 5.6%), and constipation (12 
patients; 3.5%). 
Overall, the most common medications stopped prior to study randomization were analgesics 
(paracetamol [10.6%], ibuprofen [9.1%], and diclofenac [7.6%]). A total of 6 patients (1.8%) 
discontinued hydroxyurea. These frequently used medications are commonly associated with the care 
of patients with SCD.  
Almost all patients (99.4%) were on a concomitant medication at some time during the study. The 
most commonly used concomitant medications were folic acid, in 78.6% of patients, and paracetamol, 
in 76.0% of patients. 
Efficacy results 
Summary of VOC 
The total number of VOC events was 818, with 365 in the prasugrel arm and 453 in the placebo arm. 
At least 1 VOC occurred for 115 of the 171 prasugrel-treated patients (67.3%) and 123 of the 170 
placebo-treated patients (72.4%). A total of 54.4% of VOCs required intravenous fluids, 42.3% 
required hospitalization, and 12.1% required transfusion. When terms are combined for emergency 
room, outpatient and inpatient hospitalizations, approximately 80% of VOCs were managed in the 
hospital setting while only 13.2% of VOC events were managed by documented telephone 
consultation. 
Primary Efficacy Measure 
Based on the phases of the sickle cell painful crisis (Ballas 1995), any VOC event that occurred within 7 
days of a preceding event was excluded from the primary efficacy analysis. A total of 736 VOC events 
were included in the analysis of the primary endpoint, 328 events in the prasugrel group and 408 
events in the placebo group (Table TADO.11.4). During the double-blind period, the rate of VOCs 
(number per patient-year) was lower for the prasugrel group (2.295) compared with the placebo group 
(2.767), but this difference was not statistically significant (p=0.117). 
Results of sensitivity analyses were consistent with results of the primary analysis. When documented 
telephone-managed events were excluded from the analysis, the rate ratios of VOC events were similar 
to the overall rate ratio. A sensitivity analysis that included all VOC events was performed; this 
analysis included events that occurred within 7 days of a preceding event, but not those that occurred 
on the same day. This analysis included a total of 794 VOC events; 352 events in the prasugrel group 
and 442 events in the placebo group. Results were consistent with the primary analysis results. 
The mean cumulative distribution curve (Figure TADO.14.6) suggests similar mean numbers of VOCs 
experienced between treatment groups through 12 weeks. After this time point, the VOC event rate is 
higher in the placebo group relative to the prasugrel group. A landmark analysis showed no statistically 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/640689/2016  
Page 10/17 
 
 
 
 
significant differences in the VOC rate ratios before or after 6 months, 9 months, or 1 year. Although 
there was a significant treatment difference after 9 months, this difference must be cautiously 
interpreted due to the decreasing number of patients in the double-blind treatment period of the study 
over time and differences in demographic characteristics, such as age and region, of patients in the 
study after 9 months compared to the overall study population. 
Subgroup Analyses of the primary efficacy measure 
There were no statistically significant differences between treatment groups or significant subgroup-by-
treatment interactions. The numerical decrease in VOC rate with prasugrel was consistent across 
genders, genotypes, and by baseline BMI. 
The subgroup-by-treatment interaction for age group was not statistically significant. Patients aged 12 
to <18 years treated with placebo had the highest VOC rate; a trend was observed for this age group 
with a lower rate of VOC for the prasugrel group than for the placebo group (2.339 versus 3.213; rate 
ratio: 0.72; 95% CI: 0.51, 1.02). The VOC rate was similar between treatment groups for the 2 
younger age groups. For patients not on hydroxyurea, the rate of VOC was lower for the prasugrel 
group (1.978) than the placebo group (2.677), but this difference was not statistically significant, with 
a rate ratio of 0.74 (95% CI: 0.54, 1.01). The VOC rates among placebo-treated patients on 
hydroxyurea (2.857) or off hydroxyurea (2.677) and prasugrel-treated patients on hydroxyurea 
(2.612) were more consistent. 
The rate of VOC was higher among black than white patients in both treatment groups, and there was 
a larger treatment difference for black patients. Results by region were consistent with the results by 
race, with a higher event rate and larger treatment difference among patients from Africa and America, 
who self-identified primarily as black, than among patients from the Middle East, who self-identified 
primarily as white. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/640689/2016  
Page 11/17 
 
 
 
 
 
Results of subgroup analyses may be confounded with each other (i.e., race, region, age and 
hydroxyurea use) such that it is difficult to distinguish the unique effects of each subgroup. 
The rate of VOC during the study was similar between treatment groups in patients who had 2 VOCs in 
the prior year and in patients who had 6 or more VOCs in the prior year. Among patients who had 3 to 
5 VOCs in the prior year, the rate of VOC during the study was lower in the prasugrel group than in the 
placebo group, but the difference was not statistically significant. Among patients who did not have a 
splenic sequestration or hepatic sequestration event in the prior year, the rate of VOC during the study 
was similar between treatment groups. The rate of VOC during the study was much lower in the 
prasugrel group than in the placebo group for patients who had splenic or hepatic sequestration events 
during the prior year. The difference was statistically significant among patients who had hepatic 
sequestration during the prior year, but this was a very small subgroup so conclusions cannot be made 
based on this result. 
Efficacy conclusions by the MAH 
•  A total of 736 VOC events were included in the analysis of the primary composite endpoint of 
vaso-occlusive pain crisis or acute chest syndrome. Prasugrel did not significantly reduce the 
rate of the primary endpoint compared to placebo. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The majority of the 818 VOC events during the study were managed in a health care setting, 
with 54.4% requiring intravenous fluids, 42.3% requiring hospitalization, and 12.1% requiring 
transfusion. Only 13.2% of VOC events were managed by documented telephone consultation. 
There was a trend toward an effect of prasugrel on VOC in the 12 to <18 year age group and 
in patients who were not receiving hydroxyurea; however, there were no significant treatment-
by-subgroup interactions. 
Prasugrel had no effect on the rates of hospitalization for VOC, RBC transfusion, rate of pain, 
pain intensity, analgesic use, or school absence secondary to sickle-cell-related pain as 
assessed by daily pain diaries. There was no effect of prasugrel on rates of other secondary 
outcomes, including duration of hospitalization for VOC, time from randomization to first or 
second VOC, or incidence of TIA/ischemic stroke. 
The majority of patients on prasugrel were within the target range of PRU and mean PRU 
values at the FTD were maintained through the 9 months of treatment. However, no clear 
relationship was seen between PD measures and VOC rate ratio. 
PK/PD results 
Pharmacokinetic samples were analyzed for Pras-AM concentration in plasma. After removing 
concentration records with results reported as pending or “no test,” a total of 129 prasugrel treated 
patients contributed a total of 624 PK concentrations following dosing to steady state with fully-titrated 
prasugrel doses ranging from 0.04 mg/kg to 0.12 mg/kg. Seventeen of the 129 patients were excluded 
from subsequent analysis because all samples from the patient were below the assay’s quantitation 
limit (N=16) and/or all of the patient’s samples were assayed outside the stability window (N=2) 
(one patient met both criteria). In addition, one patient was excluded from the PK analysis because the 
patient had only one time point with a quantifiable concentration. Lastly, 6 samples across 6 different 
patients were BQL and were treated as missing. After removing all excluded samples, the PK analysis 
was conducted using 530 samples from 111 patients. See Section 14.3.4.1 for a complete listing of 
samples excluded from the analysis, with the reason(s) for exclusion. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/640689/2016  
Page 12/17 
 
 
 
 
Mean concentrations at doses of 0.04 mg/kg (N=2) and 0.10 mg/kg (N=2) are not plotted due to 
insufficient data. In general, postdose concentrations increase and reach a Cmax between 0.5- and 1.0-
hour postdose, then decrease through the last sampling time of 4 hours.  
Overall, the PK results indicate that Pras-AM exposure increases with increasing dose. Pras-AM 
concentrations appear rapidly in plasma, peaking at 0.5 to 1 hour and declining to near the 0.50-
ng/mL quantitation limit by 4-hours postdose. The inter-subject variability in Pras-AM AUC is high, with 
geometric coefficients of variation of about 50%. 
Pharmacodynamic results 
Pharmacodynamic analyses were conducted on data from randomized patients who received at least 1 
dose of study drug, and had at least 1 post-baseline PD measure. The PD population included 166 
(97%) of 171 patients randomized to the prasugrel group, and 169 (99.4%) of 170 patients in the 
placebo group. 
Study TADO PD objectives are provided in Section 8.2.5 and results of PD analyses are provided in a 
separate Study TADO PD Report. The following results were observed in the Study TADO PD Report: 
•  At the FTD, prasugrel treatment resulted in a statistically significant reduction in platelet 
reactivity from baseline, as determined by both VN-P2Y12 and VASP assays, with the majority 
of patients at their FTD being in the target PRU range. 
• 
The mean PRU values at the FTD were largely maintained through the 9 months of treatment. 
•  While the majority of patients on prasugrel were within the target range of 136-231 PRU, 
device-reported and derived percent inhibition was lower than expected at ~20%-26%. 
•  No clear relationship was seen between PD measures and VOC rate ratio. 
Steady-state exposure/PD results 
Descriptive exposure–PD analyses were limited to patients contributing both PK and PD data at iden-
tical absolute doses at steady-state. The population comprised 110 of the 111 patients who contributed 
to the PK assessments previously presented. One patient was excluded from these analyses due to a 
change in absolute dose between the last PD assessment at Visit 6 and the PK assessment conducted 
at Visit 10. This patient received 0.08 mg/kg throughout the study, but due to an increase in body 
weight during the study, the dose changed from 1.5 mg at Visit 6 to 2 mg at Visit 10. 
The PD analyses included only PD measurements from the last visit for which PD results were available 
for a given subject, and where comparison of steady-state PK and steady-state PD at the same dose 
level was possible. PD data from earlier visits for a given subject were not included in descriptive PK-
PD analyses. 
For exposure–VN-P2Y12 analyses, 3 patients were excluded because they did not have VNP2Y12 data 
available at Visit 6. Therefore, the exposure–VN-P2Y12 analyses comprised 107 patients. 
For exposure–VASP analyses, 25 of the 110 patients did not have VASP data available at the last visit 
for which PD samples were collected and analyzed. Therefore, exposure–VASP analyses comprised 85 
patients. 
Safety results 
Patients were randomized to either prasugrel or placebo for a minimum of 9 months (270 ± 7 days) to 
a maximum of 24 months during the double-blind period. Mean exposures to study drug were similar 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/640689/2016  
Page 13/17 
 
 
 
 
between treatment groups, and 259 patients (76.2%) had at least 270 days of exposure to study drug. 
Durations of exposure were similar for patients aged 6 to <12 years and 12 to <18 years but shorter 
for patients aged 2 to <6 years because many of them were enrolled at a later date than the older 2 
age groups. In the youngest age group, 21 patients had at least 270 days of exposure to study drug. 
The majority of patients were still on treatment at Month 9. 
Brief Summary of Adverse Events 
Table TADO.12.2 contains an overview of AEs reported during the on-treatment period. The percentage 
of patients with hemorrhagic events was similar between treatment groups, with no statistically 
significant difference for hemorrhagic-related deaths, SAEs, AEs leading to study drug discontinuation, 
TEAEs, or AEs possibly related to study drug or study procedure. Results were similar for non-
hemorrhagic events and for AEs overall, with no statistically significant difference observed between 
treatment groups for any category of events (Table TADO.12.2). 
There was 1 death in each treatment group, with 1 additional death reported after data cutoff for SDBL 
in the placebo group that is not reflected in the safety tables. 
Brief Summary of Adverse Events by Age Group 
Analyses of AEs by age group showed no statistically significant differences between treatments for the 
2 to <6 year olds, 6 to <12 year olds, or for the 12 to <18 year age group in any event category. 
Categories of hemorrhagic events included deaths, SAEs, AEs leading to study drug discontinuation, 
TEAEs, and AEs possibly related to study drug or to study procedure. Results of analyses by age group 
were similar for non-hemorrhagic events and for AEs overall, with no statistically significant difference 
observed between treatment groups for any category in any age group. 
Deaths 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/640689/2016  
Page 14/17 
 
 
 
 
 
There were 3 deaths during the study—2 patients on placebo and 1 on prasugrel. 1 death in the 
placebo group occurred after the data cutoff date for the SDBL and is therefore not included in the AE 
listings and summaries of this report. 
•  Approximately 10 months after starting on study drug, a prasugrel-treated patient was 
hospitalized following an episode of convulsion; the patient’s condition deteriorated and they 
died the same day. An autopsy determined the cause of death to be intracranial hemorrhage 
due to ruptured aneurysm. The event was not considered by the investigator to be related to 
study drug or protocol procedures. 
•  Approximately 8 months after the first dose of study drug, a placebo-treated patient was 
hospitalized with a diagnosis of painful crisis. On the third day of hospitalization, the patient 
became febrile. The next day, the patient experienced life-threatening hypoglycemia and was 
treated with intravenous glucose. On the same day, the patient was diagnosed with severe 
anemia, received a blood transfusion, and study drug was discontinued. Despite oxygen and 
blood transfusion, the patient’s condition deteriorated and they died the following day; the 
cause of death was determined as septicemia. Per investigator opinion, the events of 
septicemia, painful crisis, severe anemia, and hypoglycemia were not related to blinded study 
drug or protocol procedures.  
One additional death in Study TADO was reported after data cutoff for the submission. A brief 
summary of this case is provided below: 
•  Approximately 9 months after the first dose of blinded study drug, a placebo-treated patient 
was hospitalized due to severe anemia and hemolytic crisis. Treatment for the patient included 
blood transfusions, ceftriaxone, amikacin, intravenous fluids, and diclofenac. The patient’s 
condition stabilized and they were able to walk unaided and eat. On the sixth day of 
hospitalization, the patient’s condition deteriorated despite oxygen therapy and a third blood 
transfusion, and the patient died. Results of the autopsy reported that the cause of death was 
multiple organ failure in a sequestrative sickling crisis. The event of severe anemia was 
considered by the investigator to be unrelated to study drug or protocol procedures. 
Other SAEs 
Similar proportions of patients in the prasugrel and placebo groups experienced at least 1 SAE 
(p=0.446). The most common SAEs were related to the underlying SCD; there were no statistically 
significant differences between treatment groups for any SAE. 
There were 4 SAEs that were considered by the investigator to be life-threatening; 2 cases in patients 
treated with prasugrel (anaphylactic reaction and parvovirus B19 infection) and 2 cases in patients 
treated with placebo (hypoglycemia and hematoma). The 2 cases in patients treated with prasugrel 
were not considered related to study drug. The event of anaphylactic reaction coincided with an SAE of 
anemia, which was treated with a blood transfusion on the same day. Among the 2 remaining cases in 
patients treated with placebo, only the hematoma was considered related to study drug. 
Adverse Events that led to treatment discontinuation 
Adverse events that led to treatment discontinuation were infrequent and occurred in similar 
proportions in the prasugrel and placebo groups. No statistically significant difference in the proportion 
of patients discontinuing treatment for any particular event was observed. The events of epistaxis, 
deep vein thrombosis, parvovirus B19 infection (prasugrel group) and anemia, thrombotic 
thrombocytopenic purpura, and disorder of orbit (placebo group) were considered serious. The 
treatment assignment for one patient was unblinded during the study due to experiencing serious 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/640689/2016  
Page 15/17 
 
 
 
 
symptoms that warranted knowledge of treatment assignment. This patient was diagnosed with a life-
threatening case of parvovirus and had study drug withdrawn at the start of the event. The patient 
subsequently discontinued from the study. 
A total of 3 hemorrhagic AEs led to treatment discontinuation; 2 in the prasugrel group and 1 in the 
placebo group. The 2 prasugrel-treated patients discontinued due to epistaxis events. Both of these 
events were considered SAEs that were possibly related to study treatment; one had a maximum 
severity of severe and one was moderate. One patient in the placebo group discontinued study drug 
due to menorrhagia of moderate severity, which was not considered to be an SAE. 
Two patients in the prasugrel group became pregnant during the study. One patient had completed 
435 days of study drug treatment at the time of discontinuation from both study treatment and from 
the study due to pregnancy. The other patient had completed 183 days of study drug treatment at the 
time of study drug discontinuation due to pregnancy; the patient continued participation in the study. 
In both cases, the outcome was elective termination of the pregnancy. 
Haemorrhagic events requiring medical intervention 
No statistically significant difference was observed between treatment groups in the rate of patients 
with hemorrhagic events requiring medical intervention. Overall, the percentage of patients with 
events was similar between treatment groups. 
TEAEs 
Similar proportions of patients in the prasugrel and placebo groups experienced at least 1 TEAE during 
the double-blind on-treatment period. The only statistically significant difference between treatment 
groups was for the preferred term of pain in extremity. 
Safety conclusions by the MAH 
• 
• 
• 
Three patient deaths occurred during the study; 2 in the placebo group (1 after data cutoff for 
the SDBL) and 1 in the prasugrel group. No deaths were considered to be related to study drug 
by the investigator. 
There were no statistically significant between-treatment differences observed for bleeding-
related deaths, SAEs, AEs leading to study drug discontinuation, or in the rate of permanent 
study drug discontinuation due to hemorrhagic or non-hemorrhagic TEAEs. 
There were no significant between-treatment differences observed in the incidence of 
hemorrhagic events requiring medical intervention, or in the incidence of hemorrhagic or non-
hemorrhagic TEAEs. 
•  Overall, no new safety findings were identified for prasugrel treatment in this population. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The H7T-MC-TADO study was a relatively large study designed to determine the efficacy of prasugrel 
monotherapy compared to placebo in a paediatric population with SCD. More study subjects than 
originally intended were included and the retention rate was high. 
The primary objectives are considered appropriate as are the statistical analyses conducted. As the 
primary and key secondary endpoints were not met, the MAH and the external TADO Steering 
Committee decided to stop the study.  
Efficacy: Prasugrel did not significantly reduce the rate of the primary endpoint compared to placebo. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/640689/2016  
Page 16/17 
 
 
 
 
Safety: There were no significant between-treatment differences observed in the incidence of 
hemorrhagic events requiring medical intervention, or in the incidence of hemorrhagic or non-
hemorrhagic TEAEs. Overall, no new safety findings were identified for prasugrel treatment. 
3.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
The decision to close the study is considered acceptable and it is recognized that prasugrel did not 
reduce the rate of VOD in a paediatric population with SCD.  
However, the study has contributed safety data in a paediatric population. As a consequence, the 
SmPC should be updated via a variation application to reflect these data and to avoid creating a 
potential for off label use. Currently, the paragraph regarding Paediatric Population in Section 4.2 of 
the SmPC states that the safety and efficacy of Efient in children below the age 18 has not been 
established as no data are available. However, with the conclusion of the present study, safety data in 
the paediatric population has been generated. Based on the data submitted, the MAH should submit a 
Type IB variation for an updated text regarding Paediatric Population in Section 4.2 of the SmPC and 
include a cross reference to Section 5.1 where a brief summary of the H7T-MC-TADO study should be 
provided, as agreed below. 
UPDATE 9 September: 
The MAH Daiichi Sankyo has committed to submit a variation for an updated text regarding Paediatric 
Population in Section 4.2 of the SmPC and include a cross reference to Section 5.1 with a brief 
summary of the H7T-MC-TADO study to be added within 60 days after the receipt of the PAM 
conclusion. A wording has been agreed with the MAH. 
The updated wording in Section 4.2 and 5.1 of the SmPC should read: 
● SmPC, 4.2: 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Efient in children below age 18 has not been established. Limited data are 
available in children with sickle cell anaemia (see section 5.1).No data are available. 
● SmPC 5.1: 
Paediatric population 
Study TADO tested the use of prasugrel (n=171) vs placebo (n=170) in patients, ages 2 to less than 
18 years of age, with sickle cell anaemia for reduction of vaso occlusive crisis in a phase III study. 
The study failed to meet any of the primary or secondary endpoints. Overall, no new safety 
findings were identified for prasugrel as monotherapy in this patient population. 
  Fulfilled: 
In view of the available data regarding the paediatric population the MAH should submit a type IB 
variation in accordance with Articles 16 and 17 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. This should be 
provided without any delay and no later than 60 days after the receipt of these conclusions. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/640689/2016  
Page 17/17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
