Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan     
Summary of risk management plan for Efmody® 
(Hydrocortisone modified-release capsules) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Efmody. The RMP details important risks 
of Efmody, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about 
Efmody's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Efmody's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Efmody should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Efmody should be read in the context of all this information including 
the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Efmody's 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Efmody is authorised for replacement therapy for congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) in 
adolescents aged 12 years and over and adults.  It contains hydrocortisone as the active 
substance and it is given by mouth. 
Further information about the evaluation of Efmody’s benefits can be found in Efmody’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/efmody . 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Efmody, together with measures to minimise such risks , are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
• 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including periodic risk benefit evaluation report (PBRER) so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Efmody are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks 
can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient 
proof of a link with the use of Efmody. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with 
the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the 
safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the 
long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Growth retardation (in off-label paediatric use) 
Accelerated sexual maturation (in off-label paediatric use) 
Missing information 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important potential risk: Growth retardation (in off-label paediatric use) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
Growth retardation has been well recognised in children on 
medicine 
chronic steroids and is dose-related.  The situation in CAH 
can be complicated by the underlying disease and/or 
comorbidities.  In CAH growth can be accelerated by 
androgen excess, however this is accompanied by bone age 
acceleration leading to precocious puberty, early fusion of 
epiphyses and compromised final height.  Conversely, 
overdose of steroids will suppress this androgen effect but 
cause growth retardation.  Owing to difficulties in 
interpreting historical data with higher dose regimens of 
replacement steroids, absence of untreated cohort data due 
to the lethal nature of disease, and interaction between 
growth, disease and steroids in CAH, it is difficult to 
determine the true extent of this problem in the present 
day.   
Risk factors and risk groups 
Cohort analysis has highlighted two periods during 
childhood and adolescence during which maintenance of 
normal growth velocity is especially important for final 
 
 
 
 
 
height; during the first 6 months of life and during puberty 
(Error! Reference source not found.).   Retrospective 
analysis of the dose-dependence of growth retardation 
effects of glucocorticoids in CAH patients has shown that 
the lowest possible dose should be used.  
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation: 
Text in SmPC section 4.2, 4.4, 4.8 
Text in PIL section 2 
Important potential risk: Accelerated sexual maturation (in off-label paediatric use) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
Risk of accelerated sexual maturation in children with CAH 
medicine 
is well known among endocrinologists and is caused by 
excess adrenal androgens when the condition is untreated 
or poorly controlled.  Optimised glucocorticoid replacement 
therapy in CAH limits excess adrenal androgen production, 
thereby normalising sexual maturation. It is difficult to 
determine the frequency of accelerated sexual maturation 
in CAH patients treated with hydrocortisone; some reports 
indicate onset of puberty is more or less normal and other 
studies show earlier onset of aspects of pseudo-puberty 
such as pubarche and thelarche.  
Risk factors and risk groups 
There is no consistent evidence that patient sex or clinical 
severity in classic CAH is a specific risk factor for 
accelerated sexual maturation. Published reports conclude 
that a key risk factor for accelerated sexual maturation 
may be glucocorticoid undertreatment leading to 
inadequate androgen control.     
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation: 
Text in SmPC section 4.2, 4.4, 4.8 
Text in PIL section 2 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Efmody. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
N/A 
 
 
