EMA/186267/2021  
EMEA/H/C/005105 
Efmody (hydrocortisone) 
An overview of Efmody and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Efmody and what is it used for? 
Efmody is a medicine used to treat an inherited condition  called congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) 
in patients  12 years old and above. 
CAH is rare, and Efmody was designated as an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 
27 July 2005.  Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu305296. 
Efmody contains the  active substance hydrocortisone and is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it  is 
similar to a ‘reference medicine’ containing the same active substance, but Efmody has a different use 
and is available in different strengths  as capsules formulated to release the active substance over a 
prolonged period. The reference medicine for Efmody capsules is Hydrocortone tablets. 
How is Efmody used? 
Efmody is available as modified-release capsules and can only be obtained with  a prescription. 
Treatment should be started by a doctor experienced in the management of CAH. 
The recommended dose of Efmody in adults and adolescents who have finished growing is 15  to 25 mg 
daily. In adolescents who have not finished growing, the dose is based on their weight  and height.  The 
daily dose can be adjusted as necessary based on the individual response. Two-thirds to  three-quarters 
of the daily dose is taken in  the evening at bedtime, at least 2 hours after the last meal, and the rest 
in the morning at least 1 hour before a meal.  
Patients may have to take an additional hydrocortisone medicine during periods of mental or physical 
stress including  surgery and infections. 
For more information about using Efmody, see the package leaflet or contact  your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Efmody work? 
People with  CAH are unable to make enough of the natural corticosteroid hormone cortisol (and 
sometimes another hormone, aldosterone). Cortisol is normally made in the adrenal glands (small 
glands just above the kidneys) and helps regulate other hormones and the body’s response to stress 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
as well as the balance of salts and water in the body. They also suffer an increase in male sex 
hormones that  can result in growth and fertility problems. 
Efmody contains hydrocortisone, a synthetic form of cortisol, and slowly releases it in the intestines  to 
replace the natural hormone in  the body, in a pattern similar to natural daily secretion of cortisol. This 
helps to restore a more normal hormone balance and minimise other aspects of the condition. 
What benefits of Efmody have been shown in studies? 
The benefits of Efmody have been shown in  a main study involving 122 patients  with CAH. Efmody was 
compared with  standard treatment  involving other corticosteroid medicines. The main measure of 
effectiveness was a score based on levels of 17-OHP,  a hormonal substance that  indicates increased 
male sex hormones in uncontrolled CAH. A fall in  this score over the course of the study showed better 
control. Over the 24 weeks of the study  this score fell by 0.403  in patients  treated with  Efmody, 
compared with  0.172 in those given standard treatment. Although this  difference was not  sufficient to 
clearly show that  Efmody worked better than  standard treatment,  measurements also suggested a 
better control of morning 17-OHP levels.  
Supportive data from an ongoing continuation  study indicated that  control of CAH could be maintained 
with  Efmody longer term. 
What are the risks associated with Efmody? 
The most common side effect with  Efmody (which may affect more than  1 in 10 people) is tiredness. 
Other common side effects with  Efmody (which may affect up to 1 in  10 people) are headache, 
increased appetite, dizziness and weight  gain. The most common serious effect is acute adrenal 
insufficiency (when  a corticosteroid medicine cannot supply enough hydrocortisone to respond to 
increased cortisol needs during stress or infection, which  may be shown by vomiting or feeling very 
unwell). 
For the full list  of side effects and restrictions with  Efmody, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Efmody authorised in the EU? 
Efmody provided adequate control of CAH and the  overall data suggested an improved hormone 
balance. The long-term data suggested this could be maintained, in some cases using lower doses of 
corticosteroid than  before and thus reducing the risk of side effects from long-term treatment. 
Modified-release hydrocortisone was considered to offer clinical value by allowing dosing that 
resembles the daily rhythm of natural cortisol secretion. The reported side effects of Efmody are in line 
with  those expected for hydrocortisone taken by mouth.  Thus, the European Medicines Agency decided 
that  Efmody’s benefits are greater than  its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Efmody? 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare professionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Efmody have been included in the  summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Efmody are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Efmody are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Efmody (hydrocortisone)  
EMA/186267/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Efmody 
Efmody received a marketing authorisation valid throughout  the EU on 27 May 2021. 
Further information on Efmody can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/efmody.  
This overview was last updated in  05-2021. 
Efmody (hydrocortisone)  
EMA/186267/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
