17 May 2021  
EMA/OD/0000032128 
EMADOC-1700519818-670470 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report 
Efmody (hydrocortisone) 
Treatment of congenital adrenal hyperplasia 
EU/3/05/296 
Sponsor: Diurnal Europe B.V.   
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation ............................................................................................... 4 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 ............................................................. 4 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 ............................................................. 5 
4. COMP list of issues ................................................................................ 11 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000032128 
Page 2/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Designated active substance(s) 
Hydrocortisone 
Other name(s) 
- 
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Hydrocortisone 
Tradename 
Orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details: 
Efmody 
Treatment of congenital adrenal hyperplasia  
Diurnal Europe B.V. 
Van Heuven Goedhartlaan 935 A 
1181 LD Amstelveen  
Noord-Holland 
Netherlands  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion date 
EC decision date 
EC registration number  
Professor Richard JM Ross, University of Sheffield 
15 June 2005 
27 July 2005 
EU/3/05/296 
Post-designation procedural history 
Transfer of sponsorship  
Transfer from Professor Richard JM Ross, University 
of Sheffield to Phoqus Pharmaceuticals Limited – EC 
decision of 18 December 2006 
2nd transfer from Phoqus Pharmaceuticals Limited to 
Diurnal Limited – EC decision of 11 February 2009 
3rd transfer from Diurnal Limited to Diurnal Europe 
B.V. – EC decision of 12 February 2019 
Correction of the active substance name 
Active substance corrected from Hydrocortisone 
(modified release tablet) to Hydrocortisone - EC 
corrigendum C(2020)1245 of 26 February 2020 
Marketing authorisation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
J. L. Hillege / K. Dunder 
Applicant 
Application submission date 
Procedure start date 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
Diurnal Limited   
12 December 2019 
23 March 2020 
EMA/H/C/005105 
Efmody 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
Treatment of congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) in 
patients aged 12 years and over. Further information 
on Efmody can be found in the European public 
assessment report (EPAR) on the Agency’s website 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EP
AR/Efmody 
CHMP opinion date 
25 March 2021 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
E. J. Rook / L. Gaidadzi 
Sponsor’s report submission 
14 May 2020 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000032128 
Page 3/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
16-18 February 2021 
questions  
Oral explanation  
Sponsor’s removal request  
14 April 2021 
15 April 2021 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
Orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2005 designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
Whereas the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products (COMP), having examined the application, 
concluded: 
• 
• 
• 
congenital adrenal hyperplasia (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to be 
affecting not more than 1 in 10,000 persons in the Community, at the time the application was 
made; 
the condition is chronically debilitating and life threatening in particular due to the development of 
addisonian crisis and virilisation of the female, precocious puberty, short stature, and infertility in 
case of inadequate treatment; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
Community, justifications have been provided that hydrocortisone (modified release tablet) may be 
of significant benefit to those affected by the condition. 
the COMP recommends the designation of this medicinal product, containing hydrocortisone (modified 
release tablet), as an orphan medicinal product for the orphan indication: treatment of congenital 
adrenal hyperplasia. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation  
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) is a rare genetic disorder of steroidogenesis. In its classic form, 
there is a deficiency of the enzyme 21-hydroxylase. Lack of 21-hydroxylase causes cortisol deficiency 
and resultant compensatory elevated pituitary adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), which drives the 
overproduction of 17-hydroxyprogesteron (17-OHP) and adrenal androgens and causes adrenal 
hyperplasia and adrenal nodules as long-term manifestation. Patients with CAH suffer from adrenal 
insufficiency (AI) and androgen excess. Adrenal insufficiency (AI) may cause life threatening adrenal 
crises (Rushworth, Torpy, and Falhammar 2019), while androgen excess causes atypical genitalia in 
female neonates, precocious puberty and short stature, and in adulthood, virilization of women and 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000032128 
Page 4/11 
 
 
 
 
 
infertility in both sexes (Merke and Auchus 2020). In the classic form, patients also have a shortage of 
aldosterone production, leading to salt wasting.  
The approved therapeutic indication “treatment of congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) in patients 
aged 12 years and over” falls within the scope of the designated orphan condition “treatment of 
congenital adrenal hyperplasia”.  
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been confirmed by the positive benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
Since designation there has been no new products authorised specifically for the treatment of CAH. 
Studies since designation have confirmed the morbidity and risk of early mortality associated with the 
condition (Falhammar et al. 2015; Jenkins-Jones et al. 2018; Sarafoglou et al. 2014; Bonfig et al. 
2016; Arlt et al. 2010). Adolescents share all the risk factors and risk of co-morbidities with adults, but 
also have the added risk that growth can be compromised either by excess glucocorticoid replacement 
or by inadequate replacement leading to disease over-activity (Speiser et al. 2018; Sarafoglou et al. 
2014). This is despite a general trend towards lower doses of glucocorticoid over the last 30 years 
although these remain higher than those recommended for adrenal replacement therapy (Sarafoglou 
et al. 2014). 
The condition remains chronically debilitating and life threatening.  
Number of people affected or at risk 
At the time of original designation for Efmody the prevalence was estimated to be less than 1:14,000 
and agreed by COMP to be less than 1:10,000. This submission updates those estimates with literature 
published since time of designation. 
Based on all available sources which includes one additional publication, the sponsor believes that a 
reasonable estimate is that CAH has a birth prevalence of ~1:12,000. Birth prevalence is the highest 
prevalence of this congenital disease due firstly to higher than average mortality, and secondly to a 
lack of effective treatment before 1950 which means that there are very few patients older than 65 
years of age. The sponsor believes that a prevalence of 1:12,000 is a generous estimate of the 
prevalence in Europe, equating to CAH affecting 0.8:10,000 people within the European Union (EU). 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
Treatments authorised in the EU for replacement therapy in CAH include multiple nationally authorised 
generic hydrocortisone therapies in 10mg and 20mg dose strengths, nationally authorised cortisone 
acetate preparations, nationally authorised prednisolone and methylprednisolone preparations and 
nationally authorised preparations of dexamethasone.  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000032128 
Page 5/11 
 
 
 
 
 
The current accepted international guidelines for management and treatment of CAH were developed 
by the (US) Endocrine Society in conjunction with the European Society of Endocrinology and European 
Society for Paediatric Endocrinology (Speiser et al. 2018). In growing patients, these guidelines 
recommend therapy with hydrocortisone, and recommend against use of long-acting potent 
glucocorticoid preparations, because of the risk of growth suppression with these preparations. 
In adults the preference is for hydrocortisone with long-acting glucocorticoid preparations such as 
prednisolone, prednisone or dexamethasone as alternatives (Speiser et al. 2018). Recent publications 
have advised caution with dexamethasone due to its association with Cushingoid adverse events, poor 
bone mineral density and potential weight gain (Auchus and Arlt 2013; Whittle and Falhammar 2019), 
and prednisolone has also been associated with reduced bone density (Riehl et al. 2019). 
In stress situations (e.g. surgery or infections), additional doses of glucocorticoids maybe needed to 
prevent adrenal crisis, in addition to chronic treatment. 
Classic CAH patients also commonly require treatment with fludrocortisone at diagnosis in the new-born 
period. The need for continuing mineralocorticoids should be assessed based on plasma renin activity 
and blood pressure. Sodium chloride supplements are often needed in infancy. 
The  non-classic  form  of  CAH  is  not  usually  treated  with  complete  replacement  therapy  (only 
supplementation in stress situations). 
Significant benefit 
For this maintenance procedure the most relevant comparator for the assessment of significant benefit 
is the standard therapy with immediate release hydrocortisones and other longer-acting glucocorticoids 
like prednisolone.  
With regards to Plenadren, a long-acting hydrocortisone authorised for treatment of adrenal 
insufficiency (AI), the CHMP similarity assessment report concluded that the therapeutic indications of 
Plenadren and Efmody do not overlap. Therefore, this product should not be considered as a 
satisfactory method of treatment of CAH. The same in principle applies to the centrally authorised 
Alkindi (hydrocortisone granules in capsules for opening), which is authorised for paediatric AI from 
birth to <18 years. Cortisol has a distinct circadian rhythm with a nadir at night on going to sleep, 
rising in the early hours of the morning from 2-4 am, peaking on waking and declining over the day to 
low concentrations in the evening (Debono et al. 2009). Treatment of CAH aims to replace the adrenal 
glucocorticoid cortisol, and where necessary the mineralocorticoid aldosterone, and so prevent the 
ACTH-driven androgen excess. The challenge facing the physician is balancing the glucocorticoid dose 
to avoid the complications of both glucocorticoid excess and glucocorticoid deficiency, particularly life-
threatening adrenal crises. Current glucocorticoids used in the treatment of CAH such as 
hydrocortisone, cortisone acetate, prednisolone, prednisone, and dexamethasone, may not be optimal 
to reproduce the natural overnight rise in cortisol (Debono et al. 2015). In two large cohort studies 
disease control is only achieved in approximately 40% of patients with the uncontrolled patients either 
over or under treated with glucocorticoids (Arlt et al. 2010; Finkielstain et al. 2012). 
The product’s invented name is Efmody, however the company’s internal names previously were 
Chronocort or Cirkrono, so these names may also appear in the following section of the document. 
Efmody  is  a  modified-release  formulation  of  hydrocortisone  that  was  designed  to  treat  CAH  more 
effectively than standard glucocorticoids treatment, with hydrocortisone levels that are more similar to 
endogenous  daily  cortisol  rhythm  under  conditions  without  stress  that  would  require  extra 
hydrocortisone. The product has to be taken twice daily, before sleeping and in the morning.  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000032128 
Page 6/11 
 
 
 
 
 
The marketing authorisation application was based on the following clinical studies.  
A phase 2 study (DIUR-003) was designed to examine the disease biomarker response to treatment 
both in the short-term (after 2 days dosing) and after 6 months of treatment in order to inform on the 
dose and study design for the subsequent phase 3 study. In 16 participants with 21 hydroxylase 
deficiency compared baseline androgens on standard therapy with Efmody pharmacokinetics and 
androgen control (17-OHP and androstenedione [A4]) at 48 hrs and 6 months (Figure 1). Patients were 
switched from their standard treatment with glucocorticoids and converted to Efmody oral capsules 
given twice daily (20mg at night and 10mg in the morning) at 30 mg/day for 6 days (part A). Patients 
were then followed for 6 months with dose adjustments at 2 weeks and 2 and 4 months according to 
androgen levels (part B).  
Figure 1.  DIUR-003 study schematic 
On standard therapy at baseline, the mean 17-OHP level was above the optimal range (36 nmol/l) for 
most of the day and only dipped down when the subjects were given a dose of steroid last thing at night, 
but then rose from 0300h as the pituitary adrenal axis became active. On Efmody at 6 months, all but 
one of the mean 17-OHP levels were within the optimal range (9-36 nmol/l, see Figure 2). 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000032128 
Page 7/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2.  Mean 17-OHP levels during standard therapy at baseline, after the first administration of 
Efmody (Day 1) and following 6 months of continued Efmody treatment (mean ± SEM). 
On standard treatment at baseline the mean A4 level is above the upper limit of the normal range for 
both men and women over most of the day, whilst after 6 months of treatment with Efmody, the A4 is 
within the normal range throughout the 24 hours (Figure 3).  
Figure 3.  Mean and SEM A4 level on standard treatment at baseline and after 6 months of treatment 
with Efmody 
After 6 months of treatment, 15 of 16 patients had a 09.00 hours 17-OHP level within the optimal range. 
For the standard therapy group this was 5 of 16 patients. 
As mentioned by the CHMP Rapporteurs (see EPAR), the study design is considered adequate to 
provide the proof of concept. It is not considered sufficient to provide evidence to confirm the 
hypothesis that Efmody can provide superior androgen control compared to standard treatment since 
the study did not contain a control arm. Neither was standard treatment optimised at baseline.  
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000032128 
Page 8/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Phase 3 study, DIUR-005: 122 participants with classic 21 hydroxylase deficiency, were randomised 
to Efmody or continuation of standard care with blinded titration of dose based on 24-hour inpatient 
hormone. Better disease control was achieved in both treatment arms from baseline to Week 24, as 
measured by 17-OHP (Figure 4).  
Figure 4.  FDIUR-005 6-month study schematic 
Patients from Study DIUR-003 and DIUR-005 could enter the open-label extension study DIUR-006 
where they could be treated with Efmody for another 12 months. The main objective of this study was 
to evaluate long-term Safety.  
Efmody is claimed to present a more optimal delivery of hydrocortisone with a dosage form that has a 
delayed release and sustained absorption. With this drug delivery modality, dosing the formulation at 
night  (and  early  in  the  morning)  would  lead  to  a  profile  of  hydrocortisone  levels  more  similar  to 
endogenous daily cortisol rhythm, than could be achieved with standard glucocorticoids treatments. 
In line with CHMP guidance (COMP-15893-2009) protocol assistance has been sought for justification 
of significant benefit on three occasions. In the initial protocol assistance in 2007, COMP stated that 
“significant benefit could be supported if Efmody would be superior to conventional glucocorticoid 
treatment in obtaining a normal diurnal cortisol rhythm resulting in 17-OHP levels in the optimal range 
at a lower/similar daily glucocorticoid dose than using conventional therapy, thereby preventing or 
reducing the risk of glucocorticoid side effects”. 
In 2014, COMP further clarified this position stating that “corticosteroid treatment of patients with CAH 
has dual roles: to substitute for the deficient production and secretion of cortisol and to suppress the 
overproduction of androgenic precursors from the adrenal glands. Achieving both of these goals at the 
same time is often difficult – the patient is either given enough glucocorticoids to suppress androgens 
(resulting in long-term side effects of glucocorticoid excess) or balanced glucocorticoid doses just 
enough to substitute for the missing cortisol – which in most cases is too little to suppress androgens. 
Consequently, in adult patients, virilisation and infertility (due to under-treatment) or cushingoid 
features (secondary to over- treatment) are common. In light of this, COMP stated that if a more 
physiological corticosteroid replacement therapy be accomplished using Efmody while controlling 
excess androgen levels, thus reducing/eliminating the risk for corticosteroid overtreatment, COMP 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000032128 
Page 9/11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
would consider this as a significant benefit, although the evaluation would need to take into 
consideration the most recent therapeutic alternatives”. 
The discussion of significant benefit was revisited in 2019 when COMP’s position evolved to state that, 
“it can be said that even if Efmody mimics more closely the level of cortisol in the body, the applicant 
has not yet demonstrated convincingly how this will translate into a patient relevant benefit, and that 
significant benefit would need to be demonstrated with clinical data showing improved efficacy, 
improved safety or major contribution to patient care”. 
The sponsor considers that Efmody has shown significant benefit in the clinical programme based on 
improvements seen in the diurnal rhythm. The pharmacokinetic profile of Efmody provides a diurnal 
cortisol rhythm that replicates the natural circadian rhythm of cortisol providing an overnight rise in 
cortisol levels to peak on waking similar to that seen in healthy subjects under physiological conditions. 
This is superior to the findings with both immediate release hydrocortisone that fail to replicate the 
physiological early morning peak of cortisol (see above).  
The sponsor claims that Efmody maintains better control of the androgen precursor, 17-OHP, on the 
glucocorticoid dose recommended for adrenal replacement therapy, and lower than that reported in the 
published cohort studies of CAH. 
However, in the pivotal study DIUR 005, Efmody failed to show statistically significant superiority to 
the active control arm of standard GC therapy including immediate release hydrocortisone, for primary 
and secondary endpoints. Therefore, the argument of improved disease control needs further 
clarification, in order to assess the clinical significance of the improvement observed.  
The sponsor claims that Efmody therapy is associated with evidence of improved fertility with 
restoration of menstrual cycles. Three pregnancies in females on Efmody, improvement in sperm 
quality and four partner pregnancies of male study participants were observed. However, in order to 
further assess this benefit, the sponsor would need to contextualise these outcomes vis-à-vis 
population on standard of care.  
The sponsor argues also that Efmody therapy is not associated with weight gain or a decrease in bone 
mineral density, which his typically observed for other GC therapies. The sponsor should provide 
further indirect comparison supported by data for this claim to be treated seriously.  
The sponsor also explores the argument of major contribution to patient care due to potentially 
improved treatment compliance, monitoring and convenience. Efmody therapy provides a twice daily 
treatment regimen obviating the need for either daytime dosing, or thrice or four times daily dosing, or 
a reverse circadian pattern of dosing. Efmody reduces the fluctuations (amplitude) in the androgen 
precursor, 17-OHP, a sample taken in the clinic at approximately 0900 and 1300h after dosing (0600-
0800) can be used to titrate therapy that provides an easy to deliver, rational monitoring regimen. 
However, no treatment burden assessment has been provided which would preferably be supported by 
an adequate patient reported outcome measure. Efmody therapy had no negative impact on health-
related quality of life (HRQoL) when measured using generic questionnaires EQ-5D and MAF. This 
merely supports comparability of Efmody to the standard of care and cannot be treated as major 
contribution to patient care. 
Finally, the safety profile of Efmody does not differ substantially from the known published profile of 
other established hydrocortisone preparations and is associated with a reduced incidence of life-
threatening adrenal crisis and the use of sick day dosing compared to standard therapy according to 
the sponsor. This is in contrast to the other modified release hydrocortisone, Plenadren, where a higher 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000032128 
Page 10/11 
 
 
 
 
 
risk of adrenal insufficiency symptoms was seen at time of switching therapy from standard 
glucocorticoid therapy (DIUR-005/DIUR-006 and Plenadren EPAR). 
The assumption of significant benefit needs further elaboration and clarification from the sponsor’s 
side. The COMP will require a clarification of the clinical relevance of disease control improvement 
observed in the context of lack of superiority. Further discussion of clinically relevant improvements in 
patients, such as the impact on fertility, body mass and bone density could help elucidate these 
questions.  
4.  COMP list of issues 
•  Significant Benefit 
In view of the failure of the pivotal study to meet its primary endpoint, the sponsor is requested to 
provide further discussion in support of significant benefit. In line with the latest advice of the COMP 
from protocol assistance, any normalisation of cortisol in patients is expected to be translated to other 
measurements of disease control in order to support a clinically relevant advantage. Further discussion 
of functional clinical improvement in patients (such as fertility) vis-à-vis the standard of care is 
expected. 
Orphan designation withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/OD/0000032128 
Page 11/11 
 
 
 
 
 
