I. 
SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR 
EKLIRA GENUAIR 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Eklira Genuair. The RMP details 
important risks of Eklira Genuair and how more information will be obtained about Eklira 
Genuair's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Eklira Genuair's Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Eklira Genuair should be 
used. 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Eklira 
Genuair's RMP. 
I.1 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
EKLIRA GENUAIR is authorised for COPD (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains 
aclidinium bromide as the active substance and it is given by inhalation. 
Further information about the evaluation of EKLIRA GENUAIR benefits can be found in 
EKLIRA GENUAIR’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/eklira-genuair 
I.2 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND 
ACTIVITIES TO MINIMISE OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE 
THE RISKS 
Important risks of aclidinium, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about aclidinium's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
 
Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
 
  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of aclidinium is not yet available, it is 
listed under missing information below. 
I.2.1 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of aclidinium are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of aclidinium. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
Table I-1 
List of important potential risks and missing information 
Important potential risks 
Missing Information 
 Cardiac events (cardiac failure, myocardial 
infarction) 
 Cerebrovascular events (stroke, transient ischaemic 
attack) 
 Mortality 
 Patients with the following concomitant illnesses: 
newly diagnosed or unstable arrhythmias, recent 
myocardial infarction, unstable angina or heart 
failure 
I.2.2 
Summary of important risks 
Table I-2 
Important potential risk:  Cardiac events 
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine  
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Aclidinium increases the heart rate in some patients, 
which might increase the risk of cardiac failure and 
myocardial infarction. 
Anticipated patient groups at risk of cardiac events 
include elderly and those with a history of cardiac 
disease, hypertension, dyslipidaemia, hyperglycaemia 
or diabetes mellitus, and body mass index >30 kg/m2. 
 Routine risk minimisation measures: SmPC Section 
4.4 and PIL Section 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine  
Aclidinium increases the heart rate in some patients, 
which might increase the risk of cardiac failure and 
myocardial infarction. 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Post-authorisation safety study D6560R00004 to 
assess the effect of EKLIRA GENUAIR on mortality, 
cardiac and cerebrovascular events. 
Table I-3 
Important potential risk:  Cerebrovascular events 
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine  
Risk factors and risk groups 
If aclidinium increases the risk of myocardial 
infarction or atrial fibrillation, the risk of blood clots 
forming in the left atrium or left ventricle also 
increases, which in turn increases the risk of stroke. 
COPD patients have a moderate increase in the risk of 
strokes compared with non-COPD patients.  Known 
risk factors include hypertension, dyslipidaemia, 
diabetes, atrial fibrillation, arterial stenosis, smoking, 
obesity, poor diet and physical inactivity. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
PASS study D6560R00004 
Table I-4 
Important potential risk:  Mortality 
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine  
Risk factors and risk groups 
Although a risk of increased mortality has been 
identified for other similar compounds, there is 
currently no evidence of an increase in mortality with 
EKLIRA GENUAIR 
Studies have shown risk of mortality in patients with 
COPD to be greater in men and greatest in elderly 
adults aged 75 years and older. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
PASS study D6560R00004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table I-5 
Missing information: Patients with the following concomitant illnesses: 
newly diagnosed or unstable arrhythmias, recent myocardial infarction, 
unstable angina or heart failure 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: SmPC section 
4.4, PIL section 2. 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
D6560R00004/PASS (cardiac components),  
I.2.3 
Post-authorisation development plan 
I.2.3.1 
Study short name: D6560R00004 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
Rationale and study objectives: To evaluate the cardiovascular safety concerns and all-cause 
mortality of aclidinium, aclidinium/formoterol and other bronchodilators used in patients with 
COPD. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
