SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1.  Introduction 
loss,  abnormal  dentition,  restrictive 
Hunter syndrome is a lysosomal storage disease caused by the missing or defective enzyme, iduronate-
2-sulfatase (I2S), which acts to cleave O-linked sulfate moieties from two human glycosaminoglycans 
(GAG) known as dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate. Insufficient levels of I2S lead to progressive 
accumulation of these GAG molecules in nearly all organs and body tissues. Hunter syndrome is a rare 
disease affecting approximately 0.02 in 10,000 persons in the Community when the application was 
made. Although the disease is heterogeneous with regard to initial presentation, Hunter syndrome is 
always severe, progressive, and life limiting.  
The  central,  underlying  pathophysiological  process  leading  to  the  clinical  manifestations  of  Hunter 
syndrome  is  the  chronic  accumulation  of  heparan  sulfate  and  dermatan  sulfate  inside  cellular 
lysosomes,  resulting  in  cellular  engorgement,  organomegaly,  tissue  destruction,  and  organ  system 
dysfunction. Accumulation of these GAG species affects nearly all cell types, tissues, and organs of 
the body including the respiratory tract, heart, liver, spleen, leptomeninges, bones, joints, oropharynx, 
head,  neck,  and  central  nervous  system.  The  clinical  manifestations  of  Hunter  syndrome  vary 
considerably  from  patient  to  patient  with  pathology  in  one  organ  system  presenting  the  most 
prominent  clinical  problem  in  some  patients  and  impairment  in  other  organ  systems  presenting  the 
biggest  challenge  in  others.  Despite  the  heterogeneity  in  the  disease  progression,  onset  of  signs  and 
symptoms  typically  occurs  between  2.5  to  4.5  years  of  age.  An  earlier  appearance  of  clinical 
symptoms generally, but not always, predicts a more severe clinical course. 
As  the  disease  progresses,  the  phenotypic  features  typical  of  the  disorder  become  increasingly 
apparent. The most common clinical signs and symptoms include slow mental development, enlarged 
tongue,  coarse  facial  features,  hearing 
lung  disease, 
hepatosplenomegaly, valvular heart disease, decreased joint range of motion, skeletal deformities, and 
severe short stature. In addition to their restrictive pulmonary disease, oropharyngeal and respiratory 
deposition  of  GAG  leads  to  severe  airway  obstruction  due  to  macroglossia,  supraglottic  narrowing, 
and  tracheomalacia,  further  contributing  to  impaired  pulmonary  function  and  sleep  apnoea.  Perhaps 
most devastating to the individuals suffering from Hunter syndrome, is the impact that the progressive 
physical  abnormalities  have  on  their  quality  of  life.  Due  to  a  combination  of  the  bone  disease, 
decreased  respiratory  capacity,  and  sleep  apnoea,  with  or  without  impaired  cardiac  function, 
individuals with Hunter syndrome suffer from chronic, severely diminished endurance. Early on, this 
may manifest as an inability to keep up with peers in activities that require physical exertion. Later, 
their ability to walk even short distances may be lost and eventually many patients become wheelchair 
bound. 
In  parallel  with  their  loss  of  ability  to  perform  activities  requiring  physical  endurance,  Hunter 
syndrome  patients  also  lose  much  of  their  ability  to  perform  even  simple  activities  of  daily  living. 
Over time, the increasing size and protuberance of the tongue causes difficulty with swallowing and 
also  may  impair  their  ability  to  speak  clearly.  The  progressive  decrease  in  joint  mobility  and  their 
broad,  claw-like  short  fingers  may  prevent  patients  from  independently  performing  many  self-care 
activities  including  self-dressing,  toilet  care,  and  personal  grooming.  Hunter  syndrome  patients 
become entirely dependent on others at an early age for their continued survival. In the latter stages of 
the  disease,  continued  accumulation  of  GAG  leads  to  progressive  organ  failure  and  significantly 
shortened life span. In some cases, GAG accumulation in tissues of the central nervous system leads to 
severe mental retardation and progressive neurological decline, often exacerbated by communicating 
hydrocephalus and increased intracranial pressure. Death usually occurs in the second or third decade 
of life most often from respiratory and/or cardiac failure.  
The  current  treatment  of  Hunter  syndrome  is  palliative  and  focused  on  clinical  symptoms.  For 
example, surgery to reduce airway obstruction and continuous positive airway pressure  (CPAP) has 
been  used  to  treat  sleep  apnoea.  Although  haematopoietic  stem  cell  transplant  (HSCT)  has  been 
suggested as a way of providing donor cells capable of expressing I2S, long-term results are limited 
and  inadequate  to  support  a  recommendation  of  HSCT  for  individuals  with  Hunter  syndrome.  Bone 
marrow transplantation has been attempted in a small number of cases with mixed results. However, 
this  procedure  is  very  risky  and  is  not  recommended  as  routine  care  for  patients  with  Hunter 
syndrome. Recent advances in genetic engineering technology have made it possible to produce highly 
purified  human  proteins  for  therapeutic  use.  Because  the  primary  biochemical  defect  in  Hunter 
©EMEA 2007 
1/43 
 
 
 
 
syndrome is now known to be a deficiency in the quantity or enzymatic activity of I2S, the most direct 
and  logical  therapeutic  approach  to  this  inherited  disease  is  replacement  of  the  missing  or  defective 
enzyme.  The  scientific  concepts  underpinning  enzyme  replacement  therapy,  have  already  been 
established in other lysosomal storage diseases, such as Gaucher disease, Fabry disease, MPS I, and 
MPS  VI.  Therefore,  the  likelihood  that  enzyme  replacement  therapy  would  also  benefit  Hunter 
syndrome patients is high. 
This is a complete independent application through the Centralised Procedure (according to Council 
Regulation EEC No 726/2004, Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex 1 (Biotech Medicinal Product). The 
proposed and approved indication was: “Long-term term treatment of patients with Hunter syndrome 
(Mucopolysaccharidosis  II,  MPS  II).  Elaprase  is  administered  at  a  dose  of  0.5  mg/kg  body  weight 
every week by intravenous infusion over a 3 hour period, which may be gradually reduced to 1 hour if 
no infusion-associated reactions are observed 
The granting of the marketing authorisation by the CHMP was done under exceptional circumstance 
as  the  indication  for  which  the  product  in  question  is  intended  is  encountered  so  rarely  that  the 
applicant cannot be expected to provide comprehensive data. 
On  the  26  October  2001  the  COMP  recommended  the  designation  of  this  medicinal  product, 
containing iduronate-2-sulfatase, as an orphan medicinal product for the orphan indication “treatment 
of  Mucopolysaccharidosis,  type  II  (Hunter  syndrome)”,  and  the  product  had  Orphan  Designation 
granted on 11 December 2001. 
Formal  Scientific  Advice  (Protocol  Assistance)  was  given  by  CPMP/CHMP  on  20  February  2003 
(EMEA-CPMP-SAWG-637-03)  and  29  July  2004  (EMEA/CHMP/SAWP/71/04).  Advice  given  in 
response  to  questions  on  Chemical,  Physical  and  Biological  development  has  been  followed  on  the 
whole. 
Elaprase  is  a  biological  product,  which  does  not  contain  or  consist  of  any  genetically  modified 
organisms. 
2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Elaprase  is  an  orphan  medicinal  product  indicated  for  long-term  treatment  of  patients  with  Hunter 
syndrome (Mucopolysaccharidosis II), which is a rare X-linked recessive storage disorder caused by a 
deficiency  or  reduced  levels  of  the  lysosomal  enzyme  iduronate-2-sulfatase  (I2S).  This  enzyme  is 
responsible for the hydrolysis of the C2-sulfate ester bonds of the non-reducing iduronic acid residue 
in both glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate.  Reduced or absent activity 
of this enzyme results in an intracellular accumulation of these GAGs, which causes a progressive and 
clinically heterogeneous disorder with multiple organ and tissue involvement. 
The active substance idursulfase is a recombinant form of iduronate-2-sulfatase. It is produced from a 
continuous  human  cell  line  and  secreted  into  the  medium  as  a  mature  monomeric  protein  of 
approximately 76 kDa. 
Idursulfase is purified by a series of chromatography steps, ultrafiltration (UF) steps and a final viral 
filtration  step.  The  excipients  used  in  the  active  substance  formulation,  sodium  chloride,  a  sodium 
phosphate  buffer,  polysorbate  20  and  water  for  injections,  are  commonly  employed  in  parenteral 
solutions of proteins.  
The finished product is manufactured by sterile filtration and aseptic filling of the formulated active 
substance into vials. 
Active Substance 
©EMEA 2007 
2/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nomenclature 
INN Name:  
Compendial name:  
Chemical name:  
idursulfase 
not applicable 
iduronate-2-sulfatase 
Description of the active substance 
Idursulfase is expressed as a monomeric protein of 550 amino acids and is secreted into the medium as 
a mature protein of 525 amino acids (molecular weight of approximately 76 kDa) following cleavage 
of the 25 amino acid signal peptide. 
Idursulfase contains two disulfide bonds and eight N-linked glycosylation sites occupied by complex, 
hybrid and high mannose type oligosaccharide chains. The presence of mannose-6-phosphate (M6P) 
residues allows specific binding of the enzyme to M6P receptors on the cell surface, leading to cellular 
internalization  of  the  enzyme,  targeting  to  lysosomes  and  subsequent  catabolism  of  accumulated 
GAGs.  Biological  activity  of  idursulfase  is  also  dependent  on  a  post-modification  of  the  conserved 
cysteine  (position  59)  to  formylglycine.  Like  other  sulfatases,  idursulfase  contains  a  divalent  cation 
(calcium for idursulfase) that is probably involved in the catalytic activity of the enzyme. 
•  Manufacture 
The  active  substance  is  manufactured  by  Shire,  (TK3  facility),  Cambridge,  MA,  USA.  This  facility 
was inspected by the MPA in August 2006 and is operated in accordance with current EU GMP. 
Development genetics and cell bank system: 
An  expression  plasmid  was  constructed  with  the  necessary  sequences  to  express  idursulfase  and  a 
transformed  human  cell  line  (HT-1080)  was  transfected  with  this  expression  plasmid  constructed.   
The HT-1080 cell line was chosen due to the specialised nature of the glycosylation requirements for 
appropriate in vivo biological activity of idursulfase. This cell line has been used for the production of 
two centrally authorised products, Replagal (agalsidase alfa) and Dynepo (epoetin delta).  The cell line 
has  been  characterized  for  cell  morphology,  cell  growth  properties,  tumorigenicity,  karyology, 
identity, virus susceptibility and for adventitious agent contamination.   
One  stable  clone  producing  idursulfase  at  high  levels  was  isolated  and  sub-cloned  to  establish  the 
Master Cell Bank (MCB) from which the subsequent Working Cell Bank (WCB) was derived.  The 
initial WCB was created from a single ampoule of MCB, based on the same principles as for the MCB 
and future WCBs will be prepared using an equivalent process. 
An extensive range of tests has been performed on the MCB and WCB for their characterisation, in 
accordance  with  ICH  guidelines,  including  viability,  sterility,  identity,  stability,  presence  of 
adventitious agents (mycoplasma, viral and retroviral contaminants).  
Fermentation processs: 
The cell culture process consists of two phases, a growth phase and a production phase.  
The resulting conditioned production media is concentrated and filtered producing the unpurified bulk 
active substance for storage.  Cell culture conditions, in-process controls (IPC) and action limits have 
been sufficiently described and are considered appropriate.  
Purification process:  
Purification is performed by a series of six chromatography steps, two UF steps and a viral filtration 
step.  The  resulting  material  is  then  formulated  with  sodium  chloride,  sodium  phosphate  and 
polysorbate 20 following which a final filtration is performed, leading to the formulated bulk active 
substance (FBDS) which is then frozen and stored at -65ºC – -85ºC. 
The applicant has confirmed that reprocessing of a complete batch is not permitted during commercial 
manufacture of idursulfase. 
©EMEA 2007 
3/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operating  conditions  of  the  chromatography  steps  are  provided  for  purification  of  the  active 
substance.  The holding times have been justified. The filtration steps during the purification, the two 
UF steps and the viral filtration step are well controlled. 
The  applicant  provided  a  justification  for  the  use  of  action  limits  for  IPC  during  cell  culture  and 
purification, rather than acceptance criteria.  
Manufacturing process development and process validation: 
Changes  to  the  active  substance  manufacturing  process  were  introduced  at  two  stages  during 
development:  
a) Prior to initiation of the pivotal Phase II/III study TKT024 in order to increase yield and process 
efficiency. 
b)  Subsequently,  the  scale  was  increased  to  the  commercial  scale  process  and  specific  process 
improvements  were  made.    This  commercial  product  was  introduced  into  the  extension  studies 
TKT018 and TKT024EXT. 
The  rationale  for  the  proposed  changes  was  explained.  An  extensive  comparability  exercise  was 
performed,  which  includes  a  comprehensive  physicochemical  characterisation,  non-clinical  studies 
(pharmacodynamic,  tissue  distribution,  bioequivalence)  and  clinical  studies  (pharmacokinetics).  The 
applicant  chose  an  appropriate  range  of  techniques  from  the  characterisation  studies  for  these 
comparability studies. Slight differences were observed in the glycosylation but these do not appear to 
impact  on  the  in  vivo  potency  of  idursulfase.    Stability  studies  also  confirmed  comparability  in  the 
characteristics of the materials. 
A  prospective  process  validation  programme  was  conducted  in  accordance  with  ICH  guidelines  to 
demonstrate the suitability and robustness of the manufacturing process and the consistent production 
of  idursulfase  with  the  appropriate  quality  attributes,  including  identity,  purity,  potency  and 
microbiological  quality.    All  equipment  used  during  validation  was  the  same  as  that  used  for 
commercial  manufacturing  and  the  validation  studies  were  conducted  following  the  applicant's 
approved production records and standard operating procedures.  All lot release assays were validated 
and in-process assays were qualified as appropriate for use in support of the validation. 
The validation for the cell culture process included media preparation, growth and production phases 
of  the  cell  culture  and  concentration/filtration  of  the  unpurified  bulk.    Validation  included  the 
manufacture of three consecutive idursulfase unprocessed and unpurified bulk lots. Acceptance criteria 
were met except for bioburden for which corrective actions have been introduced. 
The  purification  process  validation  assessed  the  chromatography  and  concentration  steps,  the  viral 
filtration, formulation, dispensing of the bulk active substance and chromatography column cleaning. 
The  acceptance  criteria  were  met  during  the  validation  studies.  Parameters  were  defined  and  the 
process  range  for  each  parameter  monitored  during  the  validation  studies  for  the  idursulfase  active 
substance manufacturing process. 
Characterisation: 
a) Elucidation of structure and other characteristics: 
The  active  substance  has  been  comprehensively  characterised,  using  state-of-the-art  methods  for 
physicochemical  characteristics.  The  glycosylation,  which  is  important  for  the  biological  activity  of 
the  product,  has  been  extensively  characterised.  Biological  characterisation  included  in  vitro 
measurement of enzyme activity and uptake in normal human fibroblasts. 
a1) Physicochemical characterisation: 
- Primary structure:  
The  observed  amino  acid  composition  of  purified  idursulfase  was  consistent  with  the  predicted 
composition.  N-terminal  sequencing  by  Edman  degradation  did  not  show  N-terminal  heterogeneity. 
©EMEA 2007 
4/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mass  spectrometry  analysis  of  the  C-terminal  sequence  showed  very  low  levels  of  C-terminal 
truncation. 
Partial modification of Cys59 to formylglycine was also confirmed. 
- Secondary structure: 
Peptide  mapping  with  mass  spectrometry  analysis  confirmed  the  presence  of  two  disulfide  linkages. 
Data from far UV circular dichroism spectroscopy are consistent with the α/β folding motif reported 
for other lysosomal sulfatases. 
- Glycosylation and charge distribution: 
Idursulfase  is  a  heavily  glycosylated  protein  with  eight  occupied  N-linked  glycosylation  sites,  each 
with  varying  degrees  of  branching,  sialylation  and  phosphorylation 
to  charge 
microheterogeneity. 
Appropriate methods have been used to analyse monosaccharide composition, sialic acid content, M6P 
content,  distribution  of  N-linked  oligosaccharides,  charge  heterogeneity,  contribution  of  charged 
glycans to the charge distribution.  
- Molecular weight distribution: 
The expected molecular weight of the amino acid sequence for idursulfase has been confirmed.  
It was also shown that the level of aggregates (dimer) in the active substance is very low. 
leads 
that 
a2) Biological activity: 
The  specific  enzymatic  activity  was  determined  using  two  methods:  measurement  of  the  removal of 
sulfate  from  a  synthetic  fluorigenic  substrate  and  an  ion  chromatography  method  to  quantify  the 
amount of sulfate ions enzymatically released by idursulfase from the naturally-derived substrate. 
In order to evaluate the uptake of idursulfase by M6P receptors, internalisation studies were performed 
using  human  fibroblasts  expressing  M6P  receptors  on  their  surface.  The  internalised  amount  of 
idursulfase was measured by a specific ELISA method. 
b) Impurities: 
Process-related  impurities  consist  of  host  cell-derived  impurities,  including  host  cell  DNA  and  host 
cell  proteins,  impurities  arising  from  the  cell  culture  medium  and  potential  impurities  from  the 
purification  process.  Product-related  impurities  include  aggregates,  fragments,  charged  variants.  The 
impurity profile has been appropriately analysed. 
b) Impurities: 
Overall,  the  purification  process  showed  good  consistency  in  the  elimination  of  both  process-  and 
product-related impurities. 
A  comprehensive  series  of  controls  has  been  established  to  minimise  any  potential  risk  of 
contamination of idursulfase by non-viral and viral adventitious agents.  
For  bovine-derived  materials,  all  lots  of  serum  used  to  manufacture  the  cell  banks  and  during  the 
fermentation  process  are  obtained  from  suppliers  with  appropriate  controls  in  place  to  adequately 
verify  the  sourcing  of  materials  from  well-monitored  herds  who  have  obtained  TSE  certificates  and 
can demonstrate compliance with the relevant guidelines. Bovine-derived materials are sourced from 
Canada, New Zealand and USA.  All lots of bovine serum are subject to a heat inactivation step and 
the bovine calf serum used during the fermentation process is subject to gamma irradiation. 
The  purification  process  has  been  validated  for  viral  clearance  using  appropriate  model  viruses  to 
evaluate new and used chromatography resins. The viral filtration step used in the purification process 
ensures removal of the model viruses tested. 
•  Specifications  
The series of tests proposed for the control of the active substance are considered appropriate to ensure 
sufficient quality with respect to identity, purity and impurities, potency, content and microbiological 
quality.  
•  Stability 
©EMEA 2007 
5/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  design  of  the  stability  testing  program,  including  the  testing  intervals  and  temperature  storage 
conditions,  are  in  accordance  with  current  ICH  guidelines.    The  stability  acceptance  criteria  for  the 
tests  used  in  the  stability  program  are  the  same  as  those  used  for  release  of  idursulfase  active 
substance.   
The  stability  data  provided  were  within  the  specifications  and  support  a  shelf  life  of  24  months  at 
 -65°C to -85°C 
Finished Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Formulation development studies showed that the phosphate buffer at the proposed concentration was 
suitable.  The  proposed  sodium  chloride  concentration  provides  an  isotonic  solution  suitable  for 
intravenous  administration.    Polysorbate  20  at  the  proposed  concentration  was  a  suitable  stabilising 
agent to protect against agitation-induced aggregation and to provide stability of the finished product 
for  shipping  and  handling.    The  formulation  does  not  contain  any  anti-microbial  preservatives  and 
direct sterility testing is performed on each lot of finished product. Container closure integrity is tested 
as part of an ongoing stability program to provide assurance that quality of the product within the vial 
is maintained throughout shelf life. 
Elaprase  is  for  intravenous  infusion  and  must  be  diluted  in  0.9%  sodium  chloride  prior  to 
administration.  The  compatibility  with  0.9%  sodium  chloride  has  been  established  by  assessing  the 
stability of diluted idursulfase following storage for up to 8 hours at room temperature (25°C). 
•  Manufacture of the product  
The  finished  product  is  manufactured  at  Baxter  Pharmaceutical  Solutions  LLC,  Bloomington,  IN, 
USA. This facility was last inspected by the MHRA in February 2006 and is operated in accordance 
with current EU GMP. 
The manufacture of the finished product consists of the sterile filtration and aseptic filling into vials of 
the  formulated  active  substance.  No  additional  excipients  or  formulation  steps  are  involved  in  the 
manufacture  of  the  finished  product.  The  filling  step  is  followed  by  stoppering,  capping,  labelling, 
packaging and storage of the vials.  The media fill and process validation results, lot-to-lot consistency 
data and critical process controls have shown that the sterile filtration and aseptic filling process are 
robust and well controlled and that the finished product can be consistently manufactured. 
•  Product Specification 
The tests and rationale for the acceptance criteria were considered acceptable for release testing.  
•  Stability of the Product 
Real-time and accelerated stability studies were initiated in accordance with ICH guidelines and per 
protocol to monitor the time-temperature stability of cGMP lots of finished product. Based on the data 
provided, the approvable shelf life for the finished product is 24 months at 2-8°C. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with existing guidelines.  
Information on the source and generation of the cell substrate and analysis of the expression construct 
are considered satisfactory.  
The cell bank system used for the manufacture of the active substance is adequately described and an 
appropriate range of tests has been performed.  
©EMEA 2007 
6/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  general,  the  cell  culture  process  and  purification  process  as  well  as  the  filling  and  storage  of  the 
active substance have been described in sufficient detail and appropriate IPC and acceptance criteria 
are in place.  
Validation data generally demonstrate that the process consistently produces the active substance. 
A  number  of  changes  were  introduced  during  development  in  the  active  substance  manufacturing 
process,  which  include  changes  to  increase  yield  and  process  efficiency,  scale-up  and  other  specific 
process  improvements.  The  extensive  comparability  exercise  that  was  performed  to  support  these 
changes was considered satisfactory.  
The  active  substance  has  been  comprehensively  characterised,  using  state-of-the-art  methods  for 
physicochemical characteristics.  The glycosylation, which is important for the biological activity of 
the  product,  has  been  extensively  characterised.    Biological  characterisation  included  in  vitro 
measurement of enzyme activity and uptake in normal human fibroblasts.  
However, additional information was requested regarding common protein degradation products such 
as  hydrolytic  impurities  (deamidated  forms),  oxidation  products  and  truncated  forms.  It  has  been 
demonstrated  that  oxidised  or  truncated  forms  will  be  detected  by  the  methods  currently  used. 
Furthermore,  these  impurities  were  not  seen  in  the  stability  studies.  Sufficient  justification  was 
provided for the absence of specifications for oxidised and truncated forms.  
The  active  substance  and  also  the  finished  product  release  and  end-of-shelf-life  specifications  were 
considered acceptable 
The stability data that was provided for the active substance and finished product support the proposed 
shelf  life  of  24  months  at  -65°C  to  -85°C  and  at  2°C  to  8°C,  respectively,  and  the  proposed  in-use 
storage conditions of 8 hours at 25°C. 
The formulation development and manufacturing process development for the finished product have 
been adequately described.  
In general, the validation program has confirmed that the manufacturing process is robust and suitable 
for routine use and that a finished product of an appropriate quality can be consistently manufactured. 
The  viral  safety  and  safety  concerning  other  adventitious  agents,  including  TSE,  have  been 
sufficiently assured 
The  last  inspection  of  the  active  substance  and  finished  product  manufacturing  facilities  showed 
compliance to the current EU GMP. 
Except  for  a  number  of  quality  points,  which  will  be  addressed  as  part  of  post-approval  follow-up 
measures, the quality of Elaprase has been adequately demonstrated. 
3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Pharmacodynamic  and  biodistribution  studies  conducted  in  mice  were  performed  according  to 
established protocols, but without quality assurance oversight and thus were considered non-GLP in 
nature.    Safety  and  toxicology  studies  were  generally  conducted  in  compliance  with  current 
international  good  laboratory  practice  (GLP)  standards.    Due  to  the  X-linked  recessive  nature  of 
Hunter syndrome, all pharmacodynamic non-clinical studies were conducted in male animals. 
Pharmacology 
Hunter syndrome is a lysosomal storage disease caused by the missing or defective enzyme, iduronate-
2-sulfatase (I2S), which acts to cleave O-linked sulfate moieties from two human glycosaminoglycans 
(GAG) known as dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate. Due to the intracellular compartmentalization 
of  lysosomes,  the  pharmacodynamic  activity  of  idursulfase  is  dependent  upon  internalization  of  the 
enzyme into the lysosomes. The binding of idursulfase via M6P moieties to cell surface M6P receptors 
©EMEA 2007 
7/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provides a receptor-mediated uptake mechanism for this enzyme, leading to cellular internalization of 
the enzyme and subsequent targeting to intracellular lysosomes. Sialylation of idursulfase reduces the 
uptake  by  hepatic  asialoglycoprotein  receptors.  Treatment  of  Hunter  syndrome  patients  with  IV 
idursulfase provides exogenous enzyme for uptake into cellular lysosomes and subsequent catabolism 
of accumulated dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate. 
A model of Hunter syndrome, the iduronate- 2-sulfatase knock-out (IKO) mouse, was created at the 
University of North Carolina, USA and established by the applicant.   The IKO mouse exhibits many 
of  the  physical  characteristics  of  Hunter  syndrome  seen  in  humans,  including  coarse  features  and 
skeletal  defects.    Elevated  GAG  levels  are  observed  in  urine  and  tissues  throughout  the  body  and 
widespread cellular vacuolisation is observed histopathologically. 
Male  IKO  mice  are  indistinguishable  from  wild  type  and  carrier  littermates  at  birth.    However, 
affected mice develop progressive gross abnormalities over time.  Levels of GAG in IKO mouse urine 
are 2 to 5-fold higher than that of wild type mice.  Consistently higher GAG levels are seen in extracts 
from all major tissues including the liver, kidneys, heart, and spleen of IKO mice when compared to 
wild type mice. 
The  IKO  model  was  used  to  evaluate  the  dose  levels  and  dose  regimen  of  idursulfase  required  to 
degrade stored GAG in this animal model.  The iv route of administration was used in animal studies, 
unless otherwise noted, to conform to the intended clinical route of administration of idursulfase. 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
A series of studies were performed to determine the pharmacodynamic effect of idursulfase on GAG 
accumulation  in  the  IKO  (iduronate  2-sulfatase  knock-out)  mouse  model.    Using  the  IKO  mouse 
model,  it  was  demonstrated  in  several  studies  that  the  administration  of  idursulfase  caused  marked 
reductions in GAG in both urine and tissue, in many cases to levels observed in wild type animals.  It 
is  therefore  concluded  that  iv  administered  idursulfase  reaches  relevant  tissues  throughout  the  body 
and is biologically active. 
Further  studies  at  doses  ranging  from  0,1  to  5.0  mg·kg-1  in  IKO  mice  concluded  that  a  dose  of  1 
mg·kg-1  idursulfase  given  weekly  and  every  other  week  were  both  effective  at  reducing  urinary  and 
tissue GAG concentrations in a variety of relevant tissues.  Both regimens were more effective than 
monthly administration.  Doses of idursulfase as low as 0.15 mg·kg-1 reduced urinary and tissue GAG, 
however, such doses did not provide a maximal effect with respect to GAG reduction. 
Idursulfase  is  found  to  be  sialylated,  and  the  degree  of  sialylation  affects  the  elimination  half-life. 
Therefore, limits have been defined to the degree of sialylation. 
One  exception  to  the  iv  route  of  administration  in  the  evaluation  of  pharmacodynamics  was  a 
preliminary  research  study,  in  which  intraperitoneal  (ip)  administration  was  used  in  neonatal  mice.  
Due to the technical difficulty of iv dosing in neonates, very young mice (4 and 11 days old) received 
ip  administration  of  idursulfase  of  5  mg·kg-1.    Due  to  unexpected  adverse  reactions  probably 
associated with the route of administration this study was terminated. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
No  secondary  pharmacodynamics  studies  were  performed  with  Elaprase.  The  lack  of  secondary 
pharmacodynamic studies is not a major omission, due to the enzyme specificity. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
A safety pharmacology study in cynomolgus monkeys further described under the Pharmacokinetics 
section  showed  no  treatment  related  effects  on  cardiovascular,  respiratory  or  central  nervous  system 
parameters following a single iv administration of idursulfase at dose levels of 5, 10, or 20 mg·kg-1.  
The safety pharmacology aspects of this study were GLP compliant. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
©EMEA 2007 
8/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Since Elaprase is a recombinant form of human iduronate 2-sulphatase and is removed from serum and 
transported  to  lysosomes  via  specific  cell  receptors,  pharmacodynamic  drug interaction studies were 
not performed. Pharmacodynamic drug interactions are not likely; not performing interaction studies is 
agreed. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  (PK)  properties  of  idursulfase  have  been  well  characterised  in  the  rat  and 
Cynomolgus monkey following bolus iv administration. 
Single  dose  PK  studies  were  performed  in  the  rat,  while  single  and  repeat-dose  PK  studies  were 
performed in the monkey.  As Hunter syndrome is an X-linked recessive disease the majority of PK 
studies used male animals, as was also the case for clinical studies.  One exception was a monkey PK 
study  that  used  both  male  and  female  animals.    Serum  availability  and  tissue  biodistribution  of  iv 
administered idursulfase were also investigated in mice. 
Idursulfase  lots  from  4  phases  of  drug  manufacturing  (Research,  Phase  I/II,  Phase  II/III,  and 
commercial) were evaluated in nonclinical PK studies. 
The  amount  of  idursulfase  in  animal  sera  was  determined  by  either  measuring  the  concentration  of 
idursulfase protein by ELISA or the quantification of enzyme activity per ml of serum. Serum samples 
were compared to a standard curve.  The tissue concentrations of idursulfase in mouse biodistribution 
studies were also determined by an ELISA method. 
•  Absorption 
Idursulfase  is  administered  by  iv  injection.    Specific  absorption  studies  have  not,  therefore,  been 
performed.  However, studies to determine AUC and T½ were performed in the rat and Cynomolgus 
monkey.  These studies also reported Cmax values (see Tables 1 and 2).  
Table 1: Pharmacokinetic Parameters following Single iv Administration 
PK Parameter  
Idursulfase Dose Level (mg·kg1)  
0.5  
2.5  
12.5  
Sprague-Dawley Rat 
Cmax (µg·ml-1)  
AUC (µg·min·ml-1)  
T1/2 (α)  
T1/2 (β)  
Cl (ml·min-1·kg-1)  
15.1  
1,074  
19 min  
3 h  
0.53  
Cynomolgus Monkey 
Cmax (µg·ml-1)  
AUC (µg·min·ml-1)  
16.6 
999 
T1/2 (α)  
T1/2 (β)  
Cl (ml·min-1·kg-1)  
20.8 min 
3 h 27 min 
0.513 
Vss (% bodyweight) 
Adapted from Applicant’s tables 
9.3 
60.4  
6,240  
47 min  
6 h  
0.41  
61.8 
8720 
1 h 11 min 
9 h 12 min 
0.289 
9.2 
419  
51,600  
52 min  
4 h  
0.24  
377 
80466 
1 h 28 min 
4 h 55 min 
0.161 
4.7 
Table  2:  Pharmacokinetic  Parameters  for  Cynomolgus  Monkey  following  Repeated  iv 
Administration 
©EMEA 2007 
9/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parameter  
Low Dose (0.5 mg·kg-1)  
Cmax (µg·ml-1)  
AUC (min*µg·ml-1) 
T ½ (α) (min) 
T ½ (ß) (min)  
Cl (ml·min-1·kg-1) 
Vss(% body weight)  
Mid-Dose (2.5 mg·kg-1)  
Cmax (µg·ml-1) 
AUC (min*µg·ml-1) 
T ½ (α) (min) 
T ½ (ß) (min)  
Cl (ml·min-1·kg-1) 
Vss(% body weight)  
High Dose (12.5 mg·kg-1)  
Cmax (µg·ml-1)  
AUC (min*µg·ml-1)  
T ½ (α) (min)  
T ½ (ß) (min)  
Cl (ml·min-1·kg-1)  
Vss(% body weight)  
Day 1 
(1st Dose) 
Day 8 
(2nd Dose) 
Day 85 
(13th Dose) 
Day 176 
(26th Dose) 
16.6 
999 
20.8 
207 
0.513 
9.3 % 
61.8 
8,720 
71.3 
552 
0.289 
9.2 % 
15.1 
997 
22.7 
225 
0.532 
9.8 % 
97.1 
9,164 
70.0 
465 
0.273 
7.3 % 
21.4 
1087 
17.4 
199 
0.462 
7.3 % 
84.2 
9,595 
67.4 
304 
0.281 
4.4 % 
377 
382 
437 
80,466 
78,396 
74,520 
88.0 
295 
0.161 
4.7 % 
128.5 
358 
0.167 
4.9% 
87.7 
216 
0.175 
3.8 % 
22.1 
1205 
19.8 
215 
0.417 
7.3 % 
51.4 
7,606 
85.6 
336 
0.344 
6.6 % 
397 
82,775 
na 
193 
0.152 
3.9 % 
adapted from applicant’s Pharmacokinetics Written Summary  
na 
= not available 
The residual amount of administered idursulfase at 24 hours following a single iv dose in the rat was 
<1.0% of Cmax, indicating that idursulfase would not be expected to accumulate following daily or 
weekly  dosing  in  this  species.    Cmax  was  proportional  to  dose,  while  AUC  increased  in  a  greater 
proportion to dose.  Serum clearance normalised for body weight decreased with dose, suggesting that 
serum clearance mechanisms became saturated. 
Following a single iv dose to cynomolgus monkeys, Cmax was dose proportional, while AUC increased 
more than dose proportionally.  The AUC and clearance data for the range of evaluated concentrations 
further suggested the possibility of clearance saturation mechanisms for idursulfase.  Apparent volume 
of  distribution  appeared  to  be  independent  of  dose  and  fluctuated,  indicating  that  administered 
idursulfase distributed into intracellular or interstitial fluid in addition to serum. 
Following repeated dose iv administration to Cynomolgus monkeys, the residual amount at 24 hours 
was ≤1.0% of Cmax, indicating that idursulfase would not be expected to accumulate following weekly 
dosing in this species.  Cmax increased linearly as dose increased, but AUC again increased more than 
proportional to dose.  
There were few changes in PK parameters following 13 or 26 weekly doses.  Mean pharmacokinetic 
parameters from Days 8, 85, and 176 were almost identical to those observed following the 1st dose 
and  only  minor  fluctuations  were  seen  in  mean  serum  clearances.    The  residual  amount  of 
©EMEA 2007 
10/43 
 
 
 
 
 
administered protein after 26 weekly iv doses was ≤1.0% of Cmax indicating that idursulfase had not 
accumulated. 
•  Distribution 
Tissue  biodistribution  studies  were  conducted  in  male  Sprague-Dawley  rats,  in  normal  female  mice 
(ICR strain) and in adult male knockout mice (IKO).  The biodistribution study in rats used doses of 
0.5 and 12.5 mg·kg-1, while the biodistribution studies in mice used a dose of 1 mg·kg-1 since this dose 
was  determined  to  be  effective  in  reducing  GAG  in  pharmacodynamic  studies  in  IKO  mice.The 
greatest  level  of  idursulfase  was  found  in  the  liver  in  both  rats  and  mice  (approximately  11%  of 
administered dose in rats and from 30 to 40 % in mice). Lower, but significant levels of idursulfase 
were  distributed  to  other  major  organs  and  tissues  throughout the body.  Detection of idursulfase in 
tissues  and  organs  throughout  the  body was consistent with the wide distribution of the mannose-6-
phosphate  (M6P)  receptor  in  mammals  and  with  known M6P receptor-mediated uptake mechanisms 
for M6P containing glycoproteins, such as naturally occurring idursulfase.  As expected, appreciable 
amounts of radioactivity were found in blood, thyroid, gastrointestinal contents, and in urine.  In the 
rat biodistribution study using idursulfase labelled with 125I, groups of rats were sacrificed at 4, 24, and 
48  hours  after  administration.  Ffor  major  organs,  the  tissue  half-life  of  idursulfase  was  estimated  at 
approximately 1 to 2 days. 
Biodistribution  studies  in  female  mice  and  male  mice  indicated  that  there  were  no  gender  related 
differences in patterns of tissue uptake of idursulfase. 
Idursulfase is a purified, recombinant form of the naturally occurring human lysosomal enzyme and, 
therefore,  plasma  protein  binding  and  blood  cell  distribution  patterns  of  idursulfase  are  unlikely  to 
differ  from  those  observed  in  individuals  expressing  normal  iduronate  2-sulphatase  levels.    The 
pharmacokinetic  studies  demonstrated  that  the  vast  majority  of  idursulfase  is  eliminated  from 
circulation (independent of species examined) within approximately 24 hours of dosing (see below). 
Consequently, studies examining plasma protein binding and blood cell distribution patterns were not 
performed. 
Hunter syndrome is an X-linked recessive genetic disease with a mostly male prevalence.  Therefore, 
studies examining placental transfer of idursulfase were not performed. 
•  Metabolism 
Serum clearance of idursulfase was modelled using allometric scaling to determine the relationship of 
Cl  to  body  weight  across  species  (rodents,  monkeys  and  humans).  The  allometric  scaling  equation 
derived  from  these  data  provided  support  for  a  similarity  in  clearance  mechanisms  across  species. 
Based on the glycosylation pattern of idursulfase and its site of action within cellular lysosomes, it is 
reasonable to assume that idursulfase serum clearance occurs primarily through cellular uptake via cell 
surface receptors and subsequent transport to cellular lysosomes. 
The  allometric  exponent  for  serum  clearance  of  small  molecules  or  other  biotherapeutic  proteins 
typically ranges from 0.6 to 0.8, with clearance typically occurring via liver metabolism and/or kidney 
excretion.  The  increased  value  of  the  allometric  exponent  for  idursulfase  serum  clearance  (0.97) 
indicates that, unlike other drugs, its serum clearance is almost linearly proportional to body weight. 
This  is  most  likely  due  to  the  mechanism  of  clearance,  via  cell  surface  receptors  such  as  the  M6P 
receptor. 
As  idursulfase  is  protein  it  is  an  unlikely  candidate  for  cytochrome  P450  mediated  drug-drug 
interactions. 
•  Excretion 
As a form of naturally occurring iduronate 2-sulphatase protein, recombinant idursulfase is assumed to 
be degraded by protein hydrolysis resulting in peptide and amino acid products which enter the body’s 
normal metabolic pools. Based on the known pathways for metabolism and catabolism of amino acids 
©EMEA 2007 
11/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  peptides,  specific  studies  to  determine  routes  of  elimination  or  the  extent  of  excretion  were  not 
performed. 
Hunter syndrome is an X-linked recessive disease and only males were included in the clinical studies.  
Since affected females are extremely rare, studies examining excretion of idursulfase in milk have not 
been performed. 
•  Pharmacokinetic Drug Interaction Studies 
As  a  purified,  recombinant  form  of  the  naturally  occurring  human  lysosomal  enzyme  iduronate  2-
sulphatase, recombinant idursulfase is not likely to interact with other medicinal products.  Therefore, 
specific studies involving idursulfase/drug interactions were not performed. 
•  Other pharmacokinetic studies 
During  the  development  of  idursulfase,  changes  were  made  to  the  manufacturing  process  that  were 
evaluated  in  an  extensive  comparability  program  that  incorporated  comprehensive  analytical 
characterisation  coupled  with  pharmacodynamic  and  biodistribution  studies.    At  certain  stages, 
pharmacokinetic studies were also conducted, but were considered to be supportive in nature and were 
not  utilised  to  draw  specific  conclusions  regarding  the  comparability  of  material.    The  applicant 
considered  that  this  approach  was  appropriate  since  the  pharmacodynamic  activity  of  idursulfase 
occurs  in  cellular  lysosomes,  where  it  catabolises  accumulated  glycosaminoglycan  (GAG)  found  in 
nearly  all  cell  types  and  tissues  of  Hunter  syndrome  patients.    Thus,  to  produce  a  consistent 
pharmacodynamic  effect  in  patients,  the  critical  factors  are  tissue  uptake  (biodistribution)  and 
subsequent GAG reduction (pharmacodynamics) in those tissues.   
Evaluation  of  the  serum  elimination  profile  of  idursulfase  in  Sprague-Dawley  rats  and  cynomolgus 
monkeys demonstrated a time course for removal of enzyme from circulation and presumptively into 
various  tissues  and  organs;  as  supported  by  the  enzyme  biodistribution  data.  Serum  idursulfase 
concentrations over time, however, may not directly correlate to pharmacodynamic enzyme activity, 
which occurs within cellular lysosomes. Nevertheless, pharmacokinetic analysis of idursulfase in these 
animal  studies  provided  fundamental  pharmacokinetic  data  for  idursulfase,  including  saturation  of 
serum clearance mechanisms and serum elimination half-lives. 
Idursulfase  manufactured  by  the  Phase  I/II  and  Phase  II/III  processes  demonstrated  comparable 
biodistribution to key organs.  For materials produced by both clinical processes, the greatest amount 
of  recovered  dose  was  found  in  the  liver,  followed  by  spleen,  kidney,  and  heart.    The  relative 
recoveries  in  these  four  tissues  were  similar  as  were  the  dose  dependent  reductions  in  urinary  and 
tissue  GAG  levels.    Based  on  these  data  coupled  with  the  physicochemical  analysis,  idursulfase 
produced by the Phase I/II manufacturing process was considered to be comparable to that produced 
using the Phase II/III manufacturing process. 
Idursulfase  produced  by  the  Phase  II/III  and  commercial-scale  processes  also  yielded  comparable 
results in all in vivo studies.  Tissue biodistribution patterns in normal mice were comparable between 
the  2  materials  in  liver,  spleen,  and  heart.    Consistent  with  the  comparable  tissue  biodistribution 
patterns,  reduction  of 
liver,  spleen,  kidney,  and  heart  were  generally 
indistinguishable at 2 different dose levels of idursulfase following 5 weekly bolus iv injections (0.25 
and 1.0 mg·kg-1 dose levels). 
tissue  GAG  from 
The inherent variability of the mouse data does not allow for convincing statistical conclusions about 
the bioequivalence 
Results  from  a  pharmacokinetics  study  in  cynomolgus  monkey  showed  the  serum  clearance  of  both 
manufacturing processes followed essentially identical biphasic patterns. 
The bioequivalence approach with respect to monkey pharmacokinetic parameters, demonstrated that 
idursulfase  manufactured  by  both  the  Phase  II/III  and  commercial  processes  were  therefore 
comparable. 
©EMEA 2007 
12/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicology 
Several toxicology studies were conducted with idursulfase in Sprague-Dawley rats and cynomolgus 
monkeys.    The  iv  route  of  administration  was  used  in  all  toxicology  studies,  as  this  is  the  intended 
clinical route of administration.  Only male animals were used for these toxicology studies, as Hunter 
syndrome is an X-linked recessive lysosomal disease. 
Idursulfase  appeared  to  be  well  tolerated  in  both  cynomolgus  monkeys  and  Sprague-Dawley  rats 
following iv bolus administration at single doses of up to 20 mg·kg-1 or repeated doses of up to 12.5 
mg·kg-1 for 6 months.  The NOAEL for idursulfase in cynomolgus monkeys dosed on a weekly basis 
provides  a  safety  margin,  on  a  mg·kg-1  basis,  of  at  least  25-fold  compared  to  the  proposed  weekly 
clinical dose of 0.5 mg·kg-1. 
As expected for a human protein administered to animals, IgG antibodies to idursulfase were detected 
in some of the monkeys after 13 or 26 weeks of dosing, and in a few knockout mice after 24 weeks of 
dosing.    These  anti-idursulfase  antibodies  had  no  adverse  toxicological  effects  although  there  was  a 
trend in decreasing the pharmacodynamic activity of idursulfase. 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single  dose  iv  bolus  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  in  the  rat  and  Cynomolgus  monkey  using 
idursulfase produced by the commercial process.  The doses of idursulfase that were evaluated (5, 10 
and  20  mg·kg-1)  corresponded  to  10  to  40-fold  average  relative  to  dosing  in  the  pivotal  Phase  II/III 
clinical Study TKT024.  No treatment related effects were observed. 
Based on these results, the no-observed-adverse-effect level for a single iv injection of idursulfase in 
male Sprague-Dawley rats and male cynomolgus monkeys was 20 mg·kg-1. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
A 6 month toxicity study in cynomolgus monkeys was designed to evaluate a more frequent weekly 
dosing  regimen  of  0.5,  2.5,  and  12.5  mg·kg-1  idursulfase  and  to  provide  an  adequate  safety  margin 
relative  to  the  dose  range  of  idursulfase  used  in  clinical  trial  TKT008  (0.15,  0.5,  and  1.5  mg·kg-1, 
administered every two weeks). 
The  overall  study  design  included  an  interim  evaluation  after  3  months  of  dosing,  a  one  month 
recovery period following study completion and toxicokinetic evaluations throughout the study. 
Idursulfase was well tolerated by male cynomolgus monkeys for 26 weekly iv doses. There were no 
deaths, abnormal clinical signs, changes in food consumption, or effects on body weight indicative of 
any  adverse  effect  of  idursulfase.  There  were  no  abnormal  ophthalmologic  observations  or  any 
changes  in  ECGs  related  to  dosing  with  idursulfase.  There  were  no  changes  in  clinical  pathology 
parameters  (clinical  chemistry,  haematology,  coagulation,  or  urinalysis)  attributable  to  idursulfase 
administration.  There were no findings at gross necropsy attributed to administration of idursulfase in 
animals  sacrificed  after  3  or  6  months  of  repeat  dosing,  or  following  one  month  of  recovery.  The 
injection sites had the expected minimal subcutaneous haemorrhage and fibrosis expected with repeat 
iv  injections  in  both  vehicle  animals  and  animals  dosed  with  idursulfase.  There  was  no  increase  in 
severity  or frequency of findings in animals dosed with idursulfase. There were no effects on organ 
weights or any histopathological findings in any tissue attributed to treatment with idursulfase. 
The toxicokinetic results revealed generally dose-dependent exposure to idursulfase. The AUC values 
were  consistent  throughout  the  26  weeks  of  the  study  for  each  dose  level.  A  decrease  in  AUC  was 
observed  in  2  animals  from  both  the  mid-  and  high  dose  groups  on  Days  85  and  176,  which  were 
associated with the presence of antibodies. The Cmax values were proportional to dose.   
©EMEA 2007 
13/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The initial distributed half-life, T½ (α), increased with dose and ranged from approximately 20 minutes 
for  the  low-dose  group  to  approximately  90  to  130  minutes  for  the  high  dose  group  suggesting  a 
possible saturation of clearance mechanisms at the 2 higher dose levels. 
Serum samples were collected to assess potential anti-idursulfase antibody development at Weeks 2, 4, 
13, 26, and 30 (one month of recovery).  Antibodies developed in 0/4, 2/4 and 4/6 animals treated with 
0.5,  2.5,  or  12.5  mg·kg-1,  respectively.    The  majority  of  antibody  positive  animals  were  detected  by 
Week 13, but one animal treated with 2.5 mg·kg-1 did not develop antibodies until Week 26.  One high 
dose animal continued to exhibit a positive antibody response throughout Week 30 while another high 
dose  animal’s  antibody  response  appeared  to  decline  by  Week  26.    The  development  of  anti-
idursulfase  antibodies  was  not  consistently  associated  with  an  increase  in  serum  clearance,  since  2 
high  dose  animals,  which  had  also  developed  anti-idursulfase  IgG  antibodies,  did  not  exhibit  any 
changes  in  serum  clearance.    There  were  no  adverse  toxicological  events  associated  with  the 
development of anti-idursulfase antibodies. 
The  toxicity  studies  in  cynomolgus  monkeys  and  rats  were  not  performed  in  full  compliance  with 
GLP. The portions conducted by the applicant, or their designee, which included the placebo control 
formulation,  analysis  of  formulation  samples  and  bioanalysis  of  toxicokinetic  samples  needed 
clarification.  Based on the information provided by the applicant, the CHMP considers that the noted 
deficiency does not invalidate the studies performed. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Idursulfase  has  not  been  evaluated  in  genotoxicity  studies  since  it  is  a  naturally  occurring  human 
protein.  Its mechanism of action and site of action (degradation of GAG in cellular lysosomes) do not 
suggest  any  genotoxic  risk  (e.g.,  idursulfase  is  not  expected  to  interact  directly  with  DNA  or 
chromosomes). 
•  Carcinogenicity 
No formal carcinogenicity studies have been conducted with idursulfase. The absence of genotoxicity 
and carcinogenicity studies is considered acceptable given the nature of the product and the indication. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Due  to  the  X-linked  recessive  nature  of  Hunter  syndrome,  only  a  male  rat  fertility  study  was 
conducted with idursulfase. 
This  GLP  study  was  designed  to  determine  the  potential  effects  of  idursulfase  on  male  rat  fertility. 
Male  rats  received  2  bolus  iv  doses  of  idursulfase  (0.5,  1.5  or  5  mg·kg-1)  per  week  for  a  period  of 
approximately  9  weeks  (4  weeks  of  pre-mating,  during  mating,  and  post-mating  until  scheduled 
necropsy).  Female  rats  were  not  treated  and  were  used  solely  for  mating  purposes.  The  high  dose 
evaluated  in  this  study,  5  mg·kg-1,  provides  a  10-fold  safety  factor  (mg·kg-1  basis)  compared  to  the 
proposed commercial idursulfase dose. 
The dosing frequency of 2 times per week was expected to maintain steady-state tissue levels of test 
article,  based  on  tissue  half-lives  of  1  to  2  days  in  rats,  for  iv-administered  idursulfase.  In  addition, 
dosing at this interval provided an additional safety factor in comparison to the weekly and every other 
week dosing regimens used in the clinical setting. 
After  4  weeks  of  dosing  each  male  was  mated  with  one  untreated  female.  Approximately  24  to  48 
hours  after  the  final  dose,  all  males  were  sacrificed.    Evaluation  of  effects  of  idursulfase  on  male 
fertility  included  mating  and  fertility  indices,  reproductive  organ  weights,  sperm  assessment  and 
histopathological analysis of testes and epididymis.  Females were sacrificed on Day 13 of gestation 
(and were evaluated for pregnancy rate, number of implantations, and number of viable implantations. 
There were no significant biological effects of idursulfase treatment on measures of male fertility and 
treatment with idursulfase had no effect on male reproductive organ weights.  Small (8 to 14%), but 
©EMEA 2007 
14/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
statistically significant, increases in cauda epididymis, epididymis and seminal vesicles weights were 
recorded.  However, a lack of dose-dependency in these increases suggests that these changes were not 
related  to  treatment  with  idursulfase.    This  was  supported  by  a  lack  of  any  gross  pathological  or 
histopathological findings in these organs.  Treatment with idursulfase had no effect on sperm density, 
morphology or sperm motility. 
There  was  no  effect  of  idursulfase  on  the  mean  number  of  corpora  lutea,  mean  number  of 
implantations, number of resorptions, number of live and dead conceptus, or the percent pre- or post-
implantation loss among the females. 
Repeated-dosing with idursulfase (2 times per week for approximately 9 weeks) at levels of up to 5 
mg·kg-1 had no effect on any measure of male rat fertility. 
•  Local tolerance  
No  additional  studies  were  specifically  designed  to  evaluate  local  tolerance  effects  following  iv 
administration  of  idursulfase.    However,  histopathological  analysis  of  injection  sites  (cephalic  and 
saphenous  veins)  were  incorporated  into  the  design  of  the  6-month  repeat  dose  toxicity  study  in 
cynomolgus  monkeys.    Microscopic  evaluations  did  not  reveal  any  local  irritation,  inflammation,  or 
necrosis to veins or tissue related to bolus iv injection of idursulfase.  
Additional  data  supporting  the  lack  of  local  injection  site  reactions  were  also  obtained  from  single-
dose  iv  toxicity  studies  conducted  with  idursulfase  in  male  Sprague-Dawley  rats  and  in  male 
cynomolgus monkeys. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
Immunogenicity 
Since idursulfase is a human protein being administered to animals it would not be unexpected to see 
the development of anti-idursulfase antibodies following repeat administration of drug.  Studies were 
not  specifically  designed  to  evaluate  the  development  of  antibodies  to  idursulfase  but  rather  were 
incorporated  into  the  design  of  two  pharmacodynamic  studies  in  IKO  mice  and  a  repeat  dose 
toxicology study in cynomolgus monkeys. 
The  analysis  of  blood  samples  for  antibody  production  does  not,  however,  appear  to  have  been 
conducted in accordance with GLP. However, based on the information provided by the applicant, the 
CHMP considers that the noted deficiency does not validate the studies performed. 
Male IKO mice were treated iv with 1 mg·kg-1 of idursulfase at weekly or every other week intervals.  
After 12 weeks half of the animals from each group were sacrificed and the remaining animals were 
sacrificed after 24 weeks of treatment.  At 24 weeks one of the mice treated weekly with idursulfase 
was found positive for anti-idursulfase antibodies.  The 4 mice dosed with 1 mg·kg-1 idursulfase every 
other week for 24 weeks were negative for antibodies to idursulfase. 
In a separate study, male IKO mice initially treated iv with either 0.15 or 1.0 mg·kg-1 of idursulfase for 
5 weeks followed by iv doses of 0.15 or 1.0 mg·kg-1 idursulfase weekly or once every 4 weeks until 
Week  24,  the  end  of  the  study.    At  the  conclusion  of  the  study  one  of  4  mice  treated  with  monthly 
doses  of  0.15  mg·kg-1  and  one of 4 mice treated with monthly doses of 1 mg·kg-1, were found to be 
positive for anti-idursulfase antibodies.  The development of anti-idursulfase antibodies however had 
no effect on the pharmacodynamic activity of idursulfase as measured by GAG degradation, indicating 
that  the  common  pharmacokinetic  approach  measuring  the  plasma  elimination  half-live  might  be 
clinically less relevant. 
Male cynomolgus monkeys were treated with once weekly iv doses of idursulfase for 13 or 26 weeks.  
Serum samples were collected to assess potential anti-idursulfase antibody development at Weeks 2, 4, 
13, 26, and 30 (one month of recovery).  Antibodies developed in 0/4, 2/4 and 4/6 animals treated with 
0.5,  2.5,  or  12.5  mg·kg-1,  respectively.    The  majority  of  antibody  positive  animals  were  detected  by 
Week 13, but one animal treated with 2.5 mg·kg-1 did not develop antibodies until Week 26.  One high 
©EMEA 2007 
15/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dose animal continued to exhibit a positive antibody response throughout Week 30 while another high 
dose  animal’s  antibody  response  appeared  to  decline  by  Week  26.    The  development  of  anti-
idursulfase antibodies was not consistently associated with an increase in serum clearance, although an 
association  could  not  be  excluded..    There  were  no adverse  toxicological  events  associated  with  the 
development of anti-idursulfase antibodies. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Idursulfase  is  a  biological  product,  which  does  not  contain  or  consist  of  any  Genetically  Modified 
Organisms.    Since  idursulfase  is  a  recombinant  form  of  the  human  lysosomal  enzyme,  iduronate-2-
sulfatase,  it  is  expected  that  the  metabolism  and  excretion  would  be  similar  to  that  of  the  naturally 
occurring  enzyme.    Therefore  no  potentially  harmful  effects  to  the  environment  are  expected.  
Metabolic  degradation  of  this  protein  product  is  expected  to  occur  in  cells  via  normal  proteolytic 
mechanisms. 
Idursulfase  has  received  orphan  drug  designation  and  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  Hunter 
syndrome,  a  rare  disease  with  an  estimated  prevalence  of  0.02  in  10,000  people.    Therefore  the 
predicted environmental concentration (PEC) from treatment of Hunter syndrome patients will be very 
low.  Elaprase (idursulfase) will be administered by healthcare professionals thus any unused product 
or  waste  materials  will  be  disposed  of  within  the  local  country  requirements,  therefore  limiting  a 
potential environmental exposure. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The pharmacokinetic properties of idursulfase in animal models (mice, rats and monkeys) have been 
reasonably  well  characterised.  Results  from  the  pharmacokinetic  studies  of  idursulfase  in  animal 
models (mice, rats and monkeys) have shown that idursulfase has a biphasic serum elimination profile 
with  mean  elimination  half-lives  of  less  than  5  to  6  hours  in  all  cases.  Values  for  Cmax  were 
proportional  to  dose  for  all  species.    However,  AUC  values  were  not  linearly  proportional  to  dose, 
indicating that serum clearance mechanisms had become saturated at doses of 0.5 mg·kg-1 or higher in 
monkeys.  Clearance saturation was also seen at 2.5 and 12.5 mg·kg-1 in rats. However, due to limited 
dose range tested in rats, it was not possible to  confirm the lowest dose of idursulfase which would 
saturate  clearance  in  this  species.    Serum  clearance  of  idursulfase  followed  allometric  scaling 
parameters  relative  to  body  weight  across  species  (rodents,  monkeys  and  humans),  indicating  that 
clearance  of  idursulfase  from  serum  likely  occurs  via  a  common  mechanism.  In  the  minority  of 
monkeys in which development of antibodies to idursulfase occurred, this was usually, but not always, 
associated with enhanced clearance. 
Idursulfase  was  detected  in  all  organs  and  tissues  examined  in  a  125I-radiolabel  rat  biodistribution 
study.    Tissue  half-lives  were  similar  for  the  major  organs  and  were  approximately  1  to  2  days  for 
liver,  kidney,  heart,  spleen,  and  bone  (including  marrow).    The  accumulation  and  retention  of 
idursulfase in these organs and tissues is consistent with the distribution of M6P receptors in tissues 
and organs in mammals, and indicates that the common pharmacokinetic approach defining the serum 
half-life is less relevant in determining the duration of action. 
The role of sialic acid content on in vivo properties (PK, tissue biodistribution, and pharmacodynamic 
activity)  of  idursulfase  was  examined.    Biodistribution  and  PD  activity  parameters  were  affected  by 
large variations in sialylation of idursulfase.  Idursulfase clearance from serum was modified by minor 
variations  in  sialic  acid  content  of  idursulfase,  but  was  not  associated  with  altered  activity  from  a 
biodistribution  or  PD  perspective.    Results  from  a  comparability  program,  as  part  of  tissue 
biodistribution, pharmacodynamic, and pharmacokinetic studies showed that idursulfase, regardless of 
the manufacturing process, maintained its activity profile. 
Toxicokinetic studies in rats and monkeys suggest saturated clearance mechanisms following a single 
iv  administration  of  idursulfase  at  doses  of  10  or  20  mg·kg-1, and at 2.5 and 12.5 mg·kg-1 following 
repeat dose administration in cynomolgus monkeys. 
©EMEA 2007 
16/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There were no signs of local irritation, inflammation, or necrosis to veins or tissue related to multiple 
bolus iv injection of idursulfase. 
As expected for a human protein administered to animals, IgG antibodies to idursulfase were detected 
in some of the monkeys after 13 or 26 weeks of dosing, and in a few knockout mice after 24 weeks of 
dosing.  These anti-idursulfase antibodies had no adverse toxicological effects nor did they impact the 
pharmacodynamic activity of idursulfase. 
4.  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Overview of Clinical Studies 
The idursulfase clinical development program was designed to test the safety and efficacy of enzyme 
replacement  therapy  in  patients  with  Hunter  syndrome.  Table  3  presents  an  overview  of  the  2 
completed,  placebo-controlled  studies  and  the  2  ongoing,  open-label  studies  of  idursulfase  which 
provide information on the safety and efficacy of idursulfase in this submission. 
Table 3 Overview of Idursulfase Clinical Studies 
Protocol and Title 
(Status) 
Doses 
(mg/kg) 
Schedule 
No.  
Enrolled 
Age Range  
at Entry 
(yrs) 
TKT008: A Phase I/II, Randomized, 
Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, 
Multiple-Dose, Dose-Escalation, 
Safety and Clinical Activity Study of 
Iduronate-2-Sulfatase Replacement 
Therapy in Patients with 
Mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS) II 
(Completed) 
TKT024: A Phase II/III, Randomized, 
Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled 
Clinical Study Evaluating the Safety 
and Efficacy of Weekly and Every 
Other Week Dosing Regimens of 
Iduronate-2-Sulfatase Enzyme 
Replacement Therapy in Patients with 
MPS II 
(Completed) 
TKT018: An Open-Label Maintenance 
Clinical Study of Iduronate-2-Sulfatase 
Replacement Therapy in Patients with 
MPS II 
(Ongoing) 
0.15 
0.5 
1.5 
Placebo 
Once every 
other  
week for 26 
weeks IV 
12 
(3/dose group) 
6.3 – 20.9 
0.5 
Placebo 
Once weekly or 
once every other 
week for 52 
weeks IV 
96 
(32/dose 
group) 
4.9 – 30.9 
Initially 
0.15 
0.5 
1.5 
Then 
0.5a 
Once every 
other week 
IV 
12 
(4/dose group) 
6.8 – 21.4 
0.5 
TKT024EXT: An Open-Label 
Extension of Study TKT024 
Evaluating Long-Term Safety and 
Clinical Outcomes in MPS II Patients 
Receiving Iduronate-2-Sulfatase 
Enzyme Replacement Therapy 
(Ongoing) 
a Subsequent to dose selection for the pivotal study (TKT024), all 8 patients in the 0.15 and 1.5 mg/kg 
groups in TKT018 transitioned to the 0.5 mg/kg dose group, whereupon all 12 patients have remained 
on active study drug for approximately 3.5 yrs. 
Once weekly for 
2 years IV 
6.0 – 31.9 
94 
©EMEA 2007 
17/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant.  The applicant 
has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  of  the  community  were 
carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Pharmacokinetics 
PK evaluations were performed in all studies. Blood samples were collected from patients enrolled in 
TKT008  (n=9)  and  TKT018  (n=12)  who  received  idursulfase;  from  a  subset  of  patients  enrolled  in 
TKT024  (n=36  patients:  18  weekly,  18  every  other  week  dose  groups);  and  from  all  patients  in 
TKT024EXT (n=94). Urine samples were also collected once per day at specified time points during 
the clinical studies, and were analyzed in order to quantify patient urine GAG following idursulfase 
treatment. 
The PK parameters analyzed can be seen in tables 4 and 5.  
•  Methods 
The following bioanalytical methods were developed and qualified/validated during the idursulfase 
clinical development program: 
•  Assay for Quantification of Idursulfase Concentration 
•  Assay for Quantification of Urinary Glycosaminoglycans (GAG) 
•  Screening Assay for Circulating Human Anti-Idursulfase Antibodies 
•  Radioimmunoprecipitation (RIP) Assay for Circulating Human Anti-Idursulfase Antibodies 
• 
Idursulfase Neutralizing Antibody Assay (NAb) 
The  pharmacokinetic  analyses  were  performed  using  a  noncompartmental  model  (WinNonlin™ 
Professional version 3.2 or 4.1, Model 202, Pharsight Corporation, Mountain, View, CA) . 
•  Absorption 
Idursulfase  is  administered  by  intravenous  infusion  and  is  not  an  orally  administered  agent. 
Accordingly  absorption  is  not  an  issue;  similarly,  100%  bioavailability  can  be  assumed  and 
consequently no bioequivalence, or bioavailability studies were conducted. 
•  Distribution 
The apparent volume of distribution at steady state of Idursulfase was between 3L and 9L (see Table 
4).  Idursulfase is a protein and an apparent volume of distribution coinciding with blood volume is to 
be expected. 
Table 4 Mean pharmacokinetic parameters of Idursulfase based on protein concentration for all 
doses after single (week 1 TKT008) and multiple (week 1 TKT018 and week 25 TKT018) dose 
administration in 12 patients (4 per group). 
Idursulfase Dose Group 
(Mean ± SD) 
PK Parameter 
0.15 mg/kg 
0.5 mg/kg 
1.5 mg/kg 
AUC (min*µg/mL) 
Single dose# (n=4) 
Week 1 TKT018 (n=3) 
Week 25 TKT018 (n=4) 
t½ (λz)  (min) 
Single dose# (n=4) 
NA 
307 ± 163 b 
210 ± 75 c 
617 ± 235 
569 ± 490 
560 ± 453 
3419 ± 1035 
2031 ± 909 
3177 ± 1446 
NA 
152 ± 38 
339 ± 162 
©EMEA 2007 
18/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Idursulfase Dose Group 
(Mean ± SD) 
PK Parameter 
Week 1 TKT018 (n=3) 
Week 25 TKT018 (n=4) 
Cl (mL/min) 
Single dose# (n=4) 
Week 1 TKT018 (n=3) 
Week 25 TKT018 (n=4) 
Normalized Cl 
(mL/min/kg) 
Single dose# (n=4) 
Week 1 TKT018 (n=3) 
Week 25 TKT018 (n=4) 
Vss (L) 
Single dose# (n=4) 
Week 1 TKT018 (n=3) 
Week 25 TKT018 (n=4) 
Vss (%BW) 
Single dose# (n=4) 
Week 1 TKT018 (n=3) 
Week 25 TKT018 (n=4) 
0.15 mg/kg 
380 ±414b 
146 ± 67 c 
NA 
23 ± 19 b 
32 ± 13c 
NA 
0.54 ± 0.30 b 
0.75 ± 0.24 c 
NA 
5.9 ± 3.0 b 
4.6 ± 1.2 c 
NA 
18 ± 15% b 
11 ± 2% c 
0.5 mg/kg 
133 ± 135 
109 ± 95 
41 ± 6 
83 ± 73 
65 ± 46 
0.91 ± 0.38 
1.78 ± 1.83 
1.56 ± 1.22 
6.5 ± 2.2 
8.7 ± 4.0 
8.4 ± 5.6 
15 ± 11% 
17 ± 10% 
19 ± 14% 
1.5 mg/kg 
105 ± 83 
233 ± 150 
15 ± 4 
23 ± 4 
18 ± 6 
0.46 ± 0.14 
0.79 ± 0.28 
0.54 ± 0.28 
3.9 ± 1.0 
2.9 ± 0.7 
3.3 ± 0.7 
12 ± 4% 
10 ± 3% 
9 ± 2% 
#Data  from  week  1  TKT018  from  the  placebo-treated  patients  from  study  TKT008  were  first 
administration  and  were  therefore  combined  with  TKT008  week1  data  in  order  to  be  able  to 
compare single versus multiple dose administration of idursulfase. 
Cmax:  maximum  observed  serum  concentration;  t½  (λz):  terminal elimination half life; Vss: apparent 
volume  of  distribution  at  steady  state;  AUC:  area  under  the  curve  extrapolated  to  infinity;  SD: 
standard deviation;  
NA:  Not  applicable  quantitative  PK  parameters  were  not  be  calculated  due  to  low  serum 
concentrations. 
a Calculated only for patients with 1-hour infusion (n=1). 
b Calculated for 2 patients, PK parameters were not be calculated due to low serum concentrations. 
c Calculated for 3 patients, PK parameters were not be calculated due to low serum concentrations. 
•  Elimination 
Idursulfase  is  a  purified  recombinant  form  of  the  naturally  occurring  lysosomal  enzyme  human 
idursonate-2-sulfatase, which is removed from serum by specific cell surface receptors and transported 
to lysosomes. In the dose finding study TKT008, the elimination half-life of idursulfase increased with 
increasing  dose  (implying  that  administered  idursulfase  enzyme  activity  was  not  inactivated  in 
patients’  plasma  before  cellular  uptake),  but  mean  terminal  half-life  was  less  than  5  hours  at  the 
highest concentration tested (1.5 mg/kg). In study TKT024 the estimated half-life was approximately 1 
hour (see Table 5). Metabolic degradation of this protein is expected to occur in cells via proteolysis. 
As such, no metabolism and excretion studies were conducted in humans. 
©EMEA 2007 
19/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 Comparison of Initial and Repeat-Dose ELISA PK Parameters from Studies TKT024 
and TKT024EXT. 
Idursulfase frequency 
PK parameter 
Cmax (µg/mL) 
Every other week1 
Every week1 
Week 1 
Week 27 
Week 522 
AUC (min*µg/mL) 
Week 1 
Week 27 
Week 522 
t½ (λz)  (min) 
Week 1 
Week 27 
Week 522 
Cl (mL/min/kg) 
Week 1 
Week 27 
Week 522 
Vss (% BW) 
Week 1 
Week 27 
Week 522 
1.54 ± 0.59 
1.23 ± 0.47 
1.21 ± 0.65 
212 ± 80 
175 ± 54 
211 ± 90 
46 ± 19 
45 ± 18 
56 ± 10 
2.9 ± 1.2 
3.3 ± 1.0 
2.8 ± 1.0 
21 ± 8 
24 ± 8 
21 ± 6 
1.72 ± 0.53 
1.12 ± 0.35 
1.16 ± 0.53 
250 ± 82 
154 ± 41 
182 ± 64 
53 ± 45 
32 ± 12 
55 ± 16 
2.3 ± 0.8 
3.6 ± 1.1 
3.1 ± 1.1 
18 ± 7 
23 ± 13 
24 ± 8 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose proportionality was studied in study TKT008 and its extension study TKT018. These studies are 
described in the next section of Clinical Efficacy, Dose Response Studies.  
Analysis  of  idursulfase  serum  concentrations  indicated  that  idursulfase  had  a  biphasic  serum 
elimination profile following an initial one-hour infusion at all dose levels, 0.15, 0.5, and 1.5 mg/kg 
(see  Table  4).  PK  parameters  presented  for  the  0.15 mg/kg  group  should  be  considered  carefully  as 
these data approached assay LOD limit (0.08µg/ml). Maximum serum concentration (Cmax) appeared 
proportional to dose when administered as an 1 hour infusion whereas the area under the curve (AUC) 
was  not  dose-proportional  from  0.5  mg/kg  to  1.5  mg/kg.  These  results  suggest  that  serum  clearance 
mechanisms  for  idursulfase  may  become  saturated  at  a  dose  level  near  0.5mg/kg.  This  was  also 
reflected by an increase in elimination half-life with increasing dose.  
Time  dependency  of  idursulfase  was  assessed  from  both  TKT008  and  TKT024  studies  and  their 
extension studies TKT018 and TKT024EXT, respectively.  
Pharmacokinetics were determined at week 1 of TKT008, week 1 of TKT018 and at week 25 of study 
TKT018.  Idursulfase  was  administered  every  other  week.  Infusion  time  was  1  hour  for  the  first 
administration, but was increased to 3-4 hours in 5 out of 8 patients in the 0.5 mg/kg and 1.5 mg/kg 
groups because of infusion related reactions that occurred with the 1-hour infusion in studies TKT008 
and TKT018. Mean Cmax values could not be estimated in these groups after repeated dosing due to 
varied infusion times for these patients. The Cmax for idursulfase generally coincided with the end of 
the infusion, which varied from 1 to 4 hours in individual patients. Mean elimination half-life was less 
than 5 hours, no accumulation in serum occurred following the every other week dosing frequency in 
this  study.  Serum  clearance  profiles  following  repeated dosing were in general not notably different 
from initial serum profiles. 
Infusion period in study TKT024/TKT024EXT was 3 hours. Due to this increased infusion time, the 
serum concentrations of idursulfase were low and could be followed in time only up to two hours after 
end of infusion. Therefore, PK parameters from study TKT024 should be considered carefully. From 
the 32 patients receiving 0.5 mg/kg weekly and the 32 patients receiving 0.5 mg/kg every other week, 
©EMEA 2007 
20/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pharmacokinetics of idursulfase were determined in a subset of patients (N=36) as single dose (week 
1) and after 27 weeks and 52 weeks (=week 1 of TKT024EXT). 
A  comparison  of  the  mean  idursulfase  serum  concentration  and  PK  parameters  (see  Table  6)  for 
weekly versus every other week dosing at Week 27 was performed in study TKT024. 
Table 6 Comparison of Mean Weekly versus Mean Every Other Week (EOW) ELISA PK 
Parameters at Week 27: Study TKT024 
Dosing 
Regimen 
(n) 
0.5 mg/kg 
Weekly 
(n=15) 
0.5 mg/kg 
EOW 
 (n=15) 
Cmax 
(µg/mL) 
1.23 
(0.47) 
1.12 
(0.35) 
AUC 
(min*µg/mL
) 
175 
(54) 
154 
(41) 
.SD = Standard Deviation 
PK Parameter 
(SD) 
t1/2 
(min) 
Cl 
(mL/min/kg) 
Vss 
(% BW) 
45 
(18) 
32 
(12) 
3.27 
(0.96) 
3.64 
(1.11) 
23.6% 
(8.1%) 
23.1% 
(13.2%) 
Together  with  pharmacodynamic  data  it  was  seen  that  the  every  other  week  dose  schedule  is 
suboptimal  compared  with  the  weekly  dose  schedule,  and  as  such  the  approved  dosing  is  a  weekly 
dose. 
•  Special populations 
Effect of Gender on Pharmacokinetics 
The studies were essentially carried out in males due to the X-linked recessive nature of the disease; 
however,  Hunter  syndrome  has  rarely  been  reported  in  females.  This  being  the  case,  reproductive 
studies in female animals were not performed, and idursulfase is also not indicated in women of child-
bearing potential and this is reflected in the SPC. 
Hepatic metabolism 
Patients  with  Hunter  syndrome  have  liver  involvement  with  major  organomegaly  but  with  usually 
minor functional consequences.  Liver function tests tended to improve under idursulfase therapy in 
the clinical trials.  In addition, as metabolism of idursulfase is expected to occur by peptide hydrolysis 
impaired  liver  function  is  not  expected  to  affect  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  idursulfase  in  a 
clinically  significant  way.    As  such,  no  metabolism  studies  were  conducted  in  humans,  and  there  is 
also no clinical experience in patients with hepatic insufficiency.  
No clinical investigations were carried out in patients with renal insufficiency. 
Idursulfase was not studied in elderly (over 65yrs) or paediatric (under 5 yrs) patients. This point has 
been specified in section 4.2. of the summary of product characteristics. 
Extrinsic Factors 
The pivotal study was conducted at 9 sites in the US, EU, and South America.  This covered a wide 
sample  of  diverse  ethnic  origin  including  4  patients  from  Japan;  however,  82%  of  the  patients were 
Caucasian.  The mutations in the I2S gene responsible for Hunter syndrome occur throughout all races 
and geographical regions.  Therefore, no formal analyses by ethnic origin were conducted. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Metabolic  degradation  of  idursulfase  is  expected  to  occur  in  cells  via  proteolysis,  therefore  as  with 
other  enzyme  replacement  therapy,  idursulfase  is  an  unlikely  candidate  for  cytochrome  P450  drug-
drug  interactions.    Therefore  neither  in  vitro  interaction  studies  nor  in  vivo  clinical  drug  interaction 
©EMEA 2007 
21/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
studies  were  conducted  (see  section  4.5.  of  SPC).    The  applicant  has  undertaken  to  monitor  any 
evidence of product interactions observed after treatment with idursulfase. 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Please refer to the section 3.1 Introduction.  
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
The  ability  to  reduce  urinary  GAG  excretion  in  patients  was  the  primary  biological  measure  of  the 
clinical  activity  of  idursulfase.  The  elevated  excretion  of  GAG  in  the  urine  of  Hunter  syndrome 
patients reflects the excessive accumulation and storage of GAG in the body, likely originating from 
various tissues. As the substrate for I2S, the measurement of urine GAG provides a direct biochemical 
marker  of  the  enzymatic  activity  of  idursulfase  in  patients,  as  well  as  a  measure  of  GAG  reduction.  
Urine GAG levels were expressed as micrograms of GAG normalized to milligrams of urine creatinine 
(µg GAG/mg urine creatinine). 
In  study  TKT  008,  although  the  decline  in  GAG  levels  for  the  0.5  and  1.5  mg/kg  groups  was  more 
rapid  than  the  0.15mg/kg dose group, it is notable that the final values of GAG levels at the end of 
evaluation at 24 weeks were still above the upper limit of normal for all 3 dose groups. Furthermore, 
while  even  the  highest  dose  level  did  not  normalise  urinary  GAG  levels,  the  decreases  at  week  24 
noted with the 0.15 and 0.5 mg appeared to be similar. This suggests that the dosing interval of every 
other week is suboptimal.   
In study TKT 024, both weekly and every other week dose schedules of 0.5 mg/kg showed significant 
reduction of urinary GAG levels by week 53 at the end of the study. However, it is notable that the 
mean GAG levels for both groups were above the upper limit of normal, since only 50% of patients in 
the weekly dose group achieved a reduction of GAG levels below the upper limit of normal compared 
with  31%  in  the  every  other  week  group.  Overall  in  both  groups  combined,  only  40%  of  patients 
achieved urinary GAG levels below the upper limit of normal. It therefore appears that the every other 
week dose schedule is suboptimal compared with the weekly dose schedule. 
Liver and spleen size were measured by abdominal MRI at Baseline 1 (baseline study TKT008) and 
Baseline 2 (Week 24 of study TKT008), and at Week 25, Week 51, and Week 103 of TKT008/018. 
All  idursulfase  dose  groups  had  marked  decreases  in  liver  and  spleen  volume  by  6  to  12  months  of 
idursulfase treatment, even when weight gain was accounted for (normalized for body weight). 
The  effect  of  idursulfase  therapy  on  the  heart  of  Hunter  syndrome  patients  was  determined  by 
measuring  changes  in  left  ventricular  mass  (LVM)  by  echocardiography.  Of  the  15  patients  in  the 
idursulfase  weekly  group  with  LVH  at  baseline,  6  patients  had  normal  LVM  by  Week  53.  Of  the  9 
patients in the idursulfase every other week group with LVH at baseline, 4 patients had normal LVM 
by Week 53. Of the 9 patients in the placebo group with LVH at baseline, 2 patients had normal LVM 
by  Week  53.  The  degree  of  reduction  in  LV  mass,  which  is  needed  to  be  clinically  meaningful,  is 
uncertain in Hunter syndrome. 
Although  the  applicant  has  shown  efficacy  with  respect  to  non-neurological  improvements,  no 
discussion has been put forward regarding neurological development and progression.  
A full statistical analysis for the primary endpoint, 6MWT and % Predicted FVC and other endpoints 
is provided in the table below.  
©EMEA 2007 
22/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7 Statistical analysis for the primary ands secondary endpoints TKT 024 
52 Weeks of Treatment 
0.5 mg/kg Weekly 
Marginally Weighted (OM) 
Mean (SE) 
Idursulfase 
Placebo 
Mean 
Treatment 
Difference 
Compared with 
Placebo (SE) 
P-value 
(Compared with 
Placebo) 
74.5 (4.5) 
55.5 (4.5) 
19.0 (6.5) 
Endpoint 
Composite (6MWT 
and %FVC) 
0.0049 
0.0131 
0.0650 
6MWT (m) 
43.3 (9.6) 
8.2 (9.6) 
35.1 (13.7) 
% Predicted FVC 
4.2 (1.6) 
-0.04 (1.6) 
4.3 (2.3) 
230.0 (40.0) 
50.0 (40.0) 
190.0 (60.0) 
0.0011 
-223.3 (20.7) 
52.23 (20.7) 
-275.5 (30.1) 
<0.0001 
-25.7 (1.5) 
-0.5 (1.6) 
-25.2 (2.2) 
<0.0001 
-25.5 (3.3) 
7.7 (3.4) 
-33.2 (4.8) 
<0.0001 
FVC Absolute 
Volume (cc) 
Urine GAG Levels 
(µg GAG/mg 
creatinine) 
% Change in Liver 
Volume 
% Change in 
Spleen Volume 
Clinical efficacy 
Efficacy  data  included  in  this  application  are  from  a  pivotal,  12-month,  Phase  II/III,  double-blind 
study  (TKT024)  and  from  a  supportive  6-month,  Phase I/II, double-blind study (TKT008) and from 
24-months  of  treatment  in  an  ongoing,  Phase  I/II,  open-label  extension  study  (TKT018).  
TKT024EXT, the open-label extension of the TKT024 study, was ongoing and no efficacy data were 
available  at  the  time  of  submission.  The  efficacy database is comprised of data from 108 individual 
patients (96 patients who were enrolled and treated in the pivotal - study TKT024, and 12 patients who 
participated  in  study  TKT008,  and  subsequently  enrolled  into  the  Phase  I/II  open-label  extension 
study, TKT018).  The patients participating in the idursulfase clinical development program presented 
a  broad  spectrum  of  disease  manifestations  quite  similar  to  the  wide  heterogeneity  present  in  the 
general population of patients with Hunter syndrome. 
•  Dose response study 
Prior  to  the  design  and  implementation  of  the  pivotal  study,  the  initial  clinical  safety  and 
pharmacology  data  were  derived  from  observations  in  12  patients  with  Hunter  syndrome  who 
randomly  received  1  of  3  dose  levels  of  idursulfase  (0.15,  0.5,  or  1.5 mg/kg)  or  placebo  as  an 
intravenous infusion every other week for 6 months in a Phase I/II trial (Study TKT008).  Begun in 
2001,  this  was  a  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  clinical  trial  designed  to  assess  dose-response  of 
idursulfase.  Because  this  was  a  sequential,  dose-escalation  study,  patients  and  study  personnel  were 
not  blinded  to  dose  cohort,  but  they  were  blinded  to  the  treatment  assignment  (idursulfase  versus 
placebo) within each cohort.  This study was conducted at one site in the United States. 
•  Main study 
Protocol No TKT024  
METHODS 
©EMEA 2007 
23/43 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Multi-centre, double-blind, randomized, placebo/dummy-controlled, 53-week, Phase II/III study of the 
efficacy and safety of idursulfase 0.5 mg/kg administered either weekly or every other week (EOW) in 
patients with Hunter syndrome. Patients were stratified by age and disease severity score at baseline 
and were randomized in a 1:1:1 fashion across centres.  
Study Participants 
All randomized patients were male between the ages of 5.0 and 30.9 years (1 patient was 4 days 
short  of  his  5th  birthday  at  randomization  and  5  patients  were  ≥  26  years  old.).  The  mean  age  of 
patients in this study was 14.22 years old. Nearly 45% of patients in the study were 5 to 11 years old 
and only 25% of patients were 19 years of age or older. These Hunter syndrome patients were short 
for  their  age.  The  baseline  demographic  and  disease  characteristics  of  all  patients  in  the  ITT 
population are provided in Table 8 and 9. 
Table 8  Baseline Patient Demographics: Study TKT024 
Demographic 
Characteristic  
Idursulfase 0.5 mg/kg 
Placebo 
n=32 
Weekly 
n=32 
EOW 
n=32 
All 
Idursulfase 
n=64 
Age at Randomization (years): 
n 
Mean (SE) 
Median 
Min, Max 
32 
13.12 (1.221) 
13.32 
5.0, 29.0 
32 
15.14 (1.113) 
15.55 
6.3, 26.0 
32 
14.40 (1.241) 
14.06 
5.4, 30.9 
64 
14.77 (0.828) 
15.00 
5.4, 30.9 
All Patients 
N=96 
96 
14.22 (0.687
) 
13.55 
5.0, 30.9 
Age Category at Entry (n (%)): 
5 to 11 years 
12 to 18 years 
19 to 25 years 
≥ 26 years 
15 (46.9) 
10 (31.3) 
5 (15.6) 
2 (6.3) 
Baseline Prepubertal Patient (n (%)): 
17 (53.1) 
Yes 
14 (43.8) 
10 (31.3) 
7 (21.9) 
1 (3.1) 
14 (43.8) 
9 (28.1) 
7 (21.9) 
2 (6.3) 
28 (43.8) 
19 (29.7) 
14 (21.9) 
3 (4.7) 
43 (44.8) 
29 (30.2) 
19 (19.8) 
5 (5.2) 
14 (43.8) 
17 (53.1) 
31 (48.4) 
48 (50.0) 
Ethnicity (n (%)): 
Hispanic or Latino 
Non-Hispanic 
Race (n (%)): 
South American Indi
an 
Asian 
Black 
White 
Other 
Gender (n (%)): 
Male 
Height (cm): 
N 
Mean (SE) 
Median 
Min, Max 
4 (12.5) 
28 (87.5) 
0 
3 (9.4) 
4 (12.5) 
24 (75.0) 
1 (3.1) 
7 (21.9) 
25 (78.1) 
1 (3.1) 
0 
2 (6.3) 
28 (87.5) 
1 (3.1) 
4 (12.5) 
28 (87.5) 
2 (6.3) 
2 (6.3) 
1 (3.1) 
27 (84.4) 
0 
11 (17.2) 
53 (82.8) 
15 (15.6) 
81 (84.4) 
3 (4.7) 
2 (3.1) 
3 (4.7) 
55 (85.9) 
1 (1.6) 
3 (3.1) 
5 (5.2) 
7 (7.3) 
79 (82.3) 
2 (2.1) 
32 (100.0) 
32 (100.0) 
32 (100.0) 
64 (100.0) 
96 (100.0) 
32 
124.19 (2.26
2) 
123.40 
101.2, 158.5 
32 
128.54 (2.63
9) 
128.07 
107.0, 166.0 
32 
128.03 (2.55
0) 
127.45 
107.4, 170.5 
64 
128.29 (1.82
0) 
127.45 
107.0, 170.5 
96 
126.92 (1.43
6) 
125.17 
101.2, 170.5 
©EMEA 2007 
24/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8  Baseline Patient Demographics: Study TKT024 
96 
36.02 
(1.325) 
33.00 
18.8, 78.2 
96 
57.14 
(0.244) 
57.00 
51.9, 64.0 
Demographic 
Characteristic  
Weight (kg): 
n 
Mean (SE) 
Median 
Min, Max 
Idursulfase 0.5 mg/kg 
Placebo 
n=32 
Weekly 
n=32 
EOW 
n=32 
All 
Idursulfase 
n=64 
All Patients 
N=96 
32 
33.63 (2.284) 
29.75 
18.8, 78.2 
32 
37.78 (2.340) 
33.75 
19.9, 69.8 
32 
36.66 (2.269) 
33.75 
19.0, 68.8 
64 
37.22 (1.618) 
33.75 
19.0, 69.8 
Head Circumference (cm): 
n 
Mean (SE) 
Median 
Min, Max 
32 
56.60 (0.427) 
56.33 
51.9, 61.5 
32 
57.32 (0.415) 
57.60 
52.7, 61.5 
32 
57.51 (0.424) 
57.45 
52.1, 64.0 
64 
57.41 (0.295) 
57.50 
52.1, 64.0 
Note: Percentages are based on all patients in the ITT population within each treatment group.  Data 
were missing where n <32. 
ITT=intent-to-treat; EOW=every other week; mg=milligrams; kg=kilograms; SE=standard error; 
cm=centimetre(s). 
Table 9 
Clinical 
Characteristic  
 Baseline Disease Characteristics: Study TKT024 
Placebo 
n=32 
Weekly 
n=32 
Idursulfase 0.5 mg/kg 
EOW 
n=32 
All 
Idursulfase 
n=64 
Age at Diagnosis of Hunter syndrome (months): 
n 
Mean (SE) 
Median 
Min, Max 
32 
57.09 
(9.410) 
36.00 
< 1, 276.0 
32 
62.09 (9.144) 
48.00 
< 1, 240.0 
32 
52.34 (6.855) 
48.00 
< 1, 180.0 
64 
57.22 (5.702) 
48.00 
< 1, 240.0 
All Patients 
n=96 
96 
57.18 
(4.899) 
48.00 
< 1, 276.0 
Duration of Hunter syndrome from date of diagnosis to date of study entry (months) 
n 
Mean (SE) 
Median 
Min, Max 
32 
99.99 (13.63
3) 
77.40 
8.4, 276.0 
32 
119.29 (13.44
6) 
97.80 
13.2, 311.0 
32 
120.27 (15.22
2) 
113.40 
4.8, 310.8 
64 
119.78 (10.07
4) 
101.40 
4.8, 311.0 
96 
113.19 (8.12
4) 
97.80 
4.8, 311.0 
Baseline Disease Score (n (%)): 
Score 2 
Score 3 
Score 4 
Score 5 
Score 6 
0 
7 (21.9) 
14 (43.8) 
9 (28.1) 
2 (6.3) 
2 (6.3) 
7 (21.9) 
10 (31.3) 
10 (31.3) 
3 (9.4) 
Baseline % Predicted FVC Severity Scorea (n (%)): 
Score 1 
Score 2 
Score 3 
4 (12.5) 
18 (56.3) 
10 (31.3) 
7 (21.9) 
13 (40.6) 
12 (37.5) 
2 (6.3) 
6 (18.8) 
11 (34.4) 
9 (28.1) 
4 (12.5) 
6 (18.8) 
12 (37.5) 
14 (43.8) 
4 (6.3) 
13 (20.3) 
21 (32.8) 
19 (29.7) 
7 (10.9) 
13 (20.3) 
25 (39.1) 
26 (40.6) 
4 (4.2) 
20 (20.8) 
35 (36.5) 
28 (29.2) 
9 (9.4) 
17 (17.7) 
43 (44.8) 
36 (37.5) 
©EMEA 2007 
25/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical 
Characteristic  
Placebo 
n=32 
Weekly 
n=32 
Idursulfase 0.5 mg/kg 
EOW 
n=32 
All 
Idursulfase 
n=64 
Baseline % Predicted FVC (%) 
n 
Mean (SE) 
Median 
Min, Max 
32 
55.567 (2.18
2) 
57.360 
30.04, 75.75 
32 
55.298 (2.802
) 
54.885 
15.99, 79.84 
32 
55.147 (2.448
) 
54.550 
27.53, 79.25 
64 
55.222 (1.846
) 
54.885 
15.99, 79.84 
Baseline 6MWT Severity Scoreb (n (%)): 
Score 1 
Score 2 
Score 3 
4 (12.5) 
24 (75.0) 
4 (12.5) 
6 (18.8) 
20 (62.5) 
6 (18.8) 
6 (18.8) 
21 (65.6) 
5 (15.6) 
12 (18.8) 
41 (64.1) 
11 (17.2) 
Baseline 6MWT (meters) 
n 
Mean (SE) 
Median 
Min, Max 
32 
392.5 (18.72
) 
403.0 
49, 540 
32 
391.6 (19.10) 
396.5 
90, 565 
32 
400.6 (17.94) 
416.5 
156, 554 
64 
396.1 (13.01) 
407.5 
90, 565 
All Patients 
n=96 
NA 
16 (16.7) 
65 (67.7) 
15 (15.6) 
NA 
Note: Percentages are based on all patients in the ITT population within each treatment group.  Data 
missing where n < 32. 
ITT=intent-to-treat; EOW=every other week; FVC=forced vital capacity; 6MWT=6-minute walk test; 
NA=Not Available. 
a 1 = ≥ 70% to < 80%; 2 = ≥ 50% to < 70%; 3 = < 50% predicted FVC. 
b 1 = ≥ 500 m; 2 = ≥ 300 m to < 500 m; 3 = severe < 300 m walked in 6 minutes.  
Treatments 
Patients  received  52  weeks  of  treatment  with  idursulfase  0.5  mg/kg  weekly,  idursulfase  0.5  mg/kg 
EOW,  or  placebo  weekly.  Placebo  infusions  were  administered  during  off  weeks  in  the  EOW  dose 
group.  Each  intravenous  (IV)  infusion  of  blinded  study  drug  was  to  be  administered  as  a  3-hour 
continuous IV infusion in order to minimize the potential for infusion reactions. 
Objectives 
Primary Efficacy Objective 
The primary objective of this study was to determine the efficacy of weekly dosing of idursulfase 
(0.5 mg/kg per dose) in the treatment of Hunter syndrome patients.  
Secondary Objectives 
The secondary objectives of the study were to determine the efficacy of every other week dosing of 
idursulfase  (0.5  mg/kg  per  dose)  in  the  treatment  of  Hunter  syndrome  patients  and  to  evaluate  the 
safety and tolerability of weekly and every other week dosing of idursulfase (0.5 mg/kg per dose) in a 
large Hunter syndrome patient population. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  a  2-component  composite  variable  of  the  sum  of  the  ranks  of  the 
change from Baseline to Week 53 in the total distance walked in the 6-minute walk test (6MWT) and 
in  %  predicted  FVC.  The  clinical  variables  of  total  distance  walked  in  the  6MWT  and  %  predicted 
FVC were also analyzed separately. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
©EMEA 2007 
26/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Passive joint range of motion (JROM) 
•  Combined liver and spleen volume by MRI and liver and spleen volumes independently 
•  Urine glycosaminoglycan (GAG) levels 
•  Cardiac left ventricular mass (LVM) by echocardiography 
Tertiary exploratory efficacy endpoints: 
•  Additional pulmonary function test parameters of forced expiratory volume in the first second 
(FEV1), total lung capacity (TLC), functional residual capacity (FRC), residual volume (RV), 
and diffusing capacity (DLco). 
 Growth velocity in prepubertal patients 
 Radiologic skeletal survey 
 Childhood  Health  Assessment  Questionnaire  (CHAQ)  to  measure  physical  function 
(disability, pain) 
• 
• 
• 
•  Hunter  Syndrome-Functional  Outcomes  in  Clinical  Understanding  Scale  (HS-FOCUS) 
questionnaire assessing physical disabilities (supplement to CHAQ) 
•  Quality of Life assessment using the Health Utilities Index (HUI) and the Childhood Health 
• 
Questionnaire (CHQ) for the parent/care giver and for the child 
 A  3-component  composite  variable  consisting  of  the  sum  of  ranks  of  the  change  from 
baseline   to Week 53 in % predicted FVC, total distance walked in 6MWT, and JROM global 
score 
Sample size 
•  The  planned  sample  size  was  90  patients.  The  final  number  of  enrolled  and  randomized 
patients was 96. 
Randomisation 
Patients  were  randomised  equally  to  one  of  three  treatment  arms:  IV  infusions  of  idursulfase  either 
weekly or every other week at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg, or weekly infusions of placebo.  
Blinding (masking) 
Idursulfase and placebo had the same visual appearance and were bottled and labelled identically. The 
study  drug  assignment  was  unknown  to  the  parents  and  patients,  the  investigators,  and  their  study 
personnel,  the  study  centre  pharmacy,  and  to  TKT  staff  involved  in  the  conduct  of  the  study.  The 
patients randomized to receive every other week infusions of idursulfase were administered placebo in 
the alternate week to maintain the blinding of the treatment regimen (i.e., weekly dosing). 
In  order  to  maintain  the  study  blinded,  all  magnetic  resonance  imaging  (MRI)  studies  and 
echocardiograms were read by an independent, blinded third party.  
Statistical methods 
Data were summarized by treatment group (and by visit when applicable) with respect to demographic 
and baseline characteristics, clinical activity variables, safety variables, and PK measurements. Where 
applicable, each variable was quantified as a change from the baseline value. 
Formal  statistics  with  2-tailed  hypothesis  testing  at  the  0.05  level  of  significance  using  ANCOVA 
analysis  was  performed  on  the  primary  endpoint,  and  other  efficacy  analyses.    Descriptive  statistics 
were performed on the safety data. 
•  96 (32 idursulfase weekly; 32 idursulfase EOW; 32 placebo) were analyzed for efficacy in the 
intent-to-treat (ITT) population (all randomized patients); 
•  95  patients  (31  idursulfase  weekly,  32  idursulfase  EOW,  32  placebo)  were  analyzed  for 
efficacy in the modified ITT (MITT) population (all patients with a post-baseline assessment); 
1 patient in the idursulfase weekly group died of respiratory failure 12 days after his first and 
only dose and was excluded from the MITT analysis. 
•  94  patients  (31  idursulfase  weekly,  32  idursulfase  EOW,  31  placebo)  were  analyzed  for 
efficacy  in  the  per  protocol  (PP)  population  (all  randomized  patients  who  met  all  admission 
criteria  and  who  completed  the  53  weeks  of  the  study,  had  all  baseline  and  Week  53 
©EMEA 2007 
27/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
measurements  of  the  primary  efficacy  assessments  where  a  21-day  analysis  window  after 
Week 52 infusion was used, received at least 80% of the study drug infusions, had not missed 
4  consecutive  doses  [where  a  dose  was  defined  as  administration  of  ≥50%  of  the  planned 
infusion for the efficacy analyses], and had no protocol violations). The 2 patients excluded 
from  the  PP  analysis  were  as  follows:  1  patient  in  idursulfase  weekly  group  who  died 
following his first and only dose and was also excluded from the MITT analysis and 1 patient 
in the placebo group who died of pneumococcal pneumonia 10 days after his Week 34 dose. 
•  Completer  populations  were  also  defined  for  the  secondary  and  tertiary  endpoints,  with  the 
actual  number  of  patients  for  each  endpoint  being  defined  by  those  patients  who  had  each 
specific endpoint assessment at both Baseline and Week 53  
•  96 patients (32 idursulfase weekly; 32 idursulfase EOW; 32 placebo) were analyzed for safety 
(all patients who received at least 1 infusion, or part of an infusion, of blinded study drug). 
RESULTS 
Participant flow  
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
s
i
s
y
l
a
t
n
n
A
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
Assessed for 
Eligibility (n=121)  
Excluded (n=24) 
Not meeting Inclusion criteria 
Refused to participate (n=1) 
Other reasons (n=0) 
Randomised (n=96) 
Allocated to intervention  (n=32) 
Received allocated intervention (n=32) 
Did not receive Allocated intervention; 
give reasons (n=0) 
Allocated to intervention  (n=32) 
Received allocated intervention (n=32) 
Did not receive Allocated intervention; give 
reasons (n=0) 
Allocated to intervention  (n=32) 
Received allocated intervention (n=32) 
Did not receive Allocated intervention; 
give reasons (n=0) 
Lost to follow-up; give reasons 
(n=0) 
Discontinued intervention; give 
reasons (n=1): Death 
Lost to follow-up; give reasons 
(n=0) 
Discontinued intervention; give 
reasons (n=0) 
Lost to follow-up; give reasons 
(n=0) 
Discontinued intervention; give 
reasons (n=1): Death 
Analysed MITT (n.=31)  
Excluded from analysis; give 
reasons (n=1): Death 
Analysed MITT (n=32.) 
 Excluded from analysis; give 
reasons (n=..) 
Analysed MITT (n=32) 
 Excluded from analysis; give 
reasons (n=0) 
Weekly idursulfase 
EOW Idursulfase 
Placebo 
Outcomes and estimation 
Efficacy was adequately demonstrated for the composite endpoint using the weekly dosage schedule, 
but  it  has  not  been  shown  for  the  EOW  schedule  where  the  evidence  was  weak  with  borderline 
significance. This was evident for the composite endpoint, which was driven only by one component, 
namely the 6MWT, with no clear evidence of any effect on pulmonary function by the EOW dose.  
Since the effect of the EOW dosing scheme was of borderline significance and seemed to be confined 
to distance walked with no effect on respiratory function the MA was restricted to weekly dosing only. 
©EMEA 2007 
28/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The applicant carried out a re-assessment of the risk benefit for the EOW dosing in view of additional 
data  from  TKT024EXT,  which  clearly  demonstrated  the  superiority  of  weekly  dosing  over  EOW 
dosing.  Accordingly,  the  treatment  is  recommended  as  a  weekly  dosing  for  all  patients  with  Hunter 
syndrome. 
Ancillary analyses 
To  assess  the  contributions  of  the  treatment  differences  in  the  change  from  baseline  to  Week  53  in 
6MWT  distance  walked  to  the  outcome  of  the  analysis  of  the  2-component  composite  variable 
analysis, the ranked changes were analysed using an ANCOVA with treatment group and region fitted 
as  factors,  and  baseline  patient  age  (5  to  11  years,  12  to  18  years,  and 19 to 25 years) and baseline 
disease score (score of 2, score of 3 or 4, and score of 5 or 6) as covariates. A Wilcoxon rank-sum test 
was also performed.  
•  Supportive studies 
Studies TKT008 and TKT018 provide the supportive data for this submission which contains a 2- to 
2.5-year  analysis  of  efficacy  data  for  these  patients,  including  the  first  6  months  of  idursulfase 
treatment in TKT008 and a 3- to 3.5-year analysis of safety and clinical activity, including safety data 
and urinary GAG levels from the first dose of idursulfase in either TKT008 or TKT018. 
Patients  completing  Study  TKT008  continued  to  receive  treatment  in  Study  TKT018,  an  open-label 
study to further evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy of idursulfase therapy in Hunter syndrome.  
All 12 patients who completed the Phase I/II testing of idursulfase in TKT008 entered into the open-
label extension Study TKT018 starting in October 2001.  
No baseline weekly dosing data was available for the dose finding study TKT008, and as such it is not 
entirely  clear,  but  nevertheless  probable,  that  the  dose  selected  was  not  optimal  for  this  patient 
population. Although selection of the dose was also based on pre-clinical data as well, in which a dose 
of 1.0 mg was studied, this was not clinically evaluated. 
It  seems  probable  therefore,  judging  from  urinary  GAG  levels,  that  a  weekly  dose  greater  than  0.5 
mg/kg  is  more  effective  in  normalising  GAG  levels  rapidly,  followed  by  a  lower  maintenance  dose 
given weekly or even EOW. 
More information on the appropriate dose, dose schedule and infusion time was warranted since the 
submitted dose finding study was inconclusive. The MAA was asked to submit more elaborate dose 
finding data especially regarding the efficacy of the comparatively safer weekly 0.15 mg/kg dose, and 
the safety (3 hour infusion) of the relatively efficacious 1.5 mg/kg dose which needed to be explored 
further.  However,  although  the  applicant  stated  that  there  is  a  lower  efficacy  with  the  0.15  mg/kg 
(every  other  week,  1  hour  infusion)  dose  while  the  higher  1.5  mg/kg  (every  other  week,  1  hour 
infusion) dose was associated with a higher number of adverse events, detailed analysis did not justify 
the conclusions of the applicant. In particular, the longer infusion duration for the 1.5 mg/kg dose and 
the  every  week  dosing  of  the  0.15  mg/kg  had  not  been  explored  and  will  be  assessed  through  the 
Hunter Outcome Survey..  
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Efficacy was adequately demonstrated in the pivotal trial for the composite endpoint using the weekly 
dosage  schedule,  however  evidence  concerning  the  EOW  was  weak  with  borderline  significance 
seemed to be confined to distance walked with no effect on respiratory function. The applicant carried 
out a re-assessment of the risk benefit for EOW dosing in view of additional data from TKT024EXT, 
which has clearly demonstrated the superiority of weekly dosing over EOW dosing, and accordingly, 
changed the recommended dosing to a weekly schedule for all patients with Hunter syndrome. 
Results from the dose finding study showed that it is probable, judging from urinary GAG levels, that 
a weekly dose greater than 0.5 mg/kg is more effective in normalising GAG levels rapidly, followed 
by  a  lower  maintenance  dose  given  weekly  or  even  EOW.  This  issue  will  be  investigated  via  the 
Hunter Outcome Survey (HOS) registry.  
©EMEA 2007 
29/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
In trial TK024 the adjusted changes from baseline in the primary endpoint were always lower for all 
treatment groups than the unadjusted changes, and therefore did not seem to reflect the experience of 
patients  in  the  trial.  Accordingly  the  applicant  was  asked  to  explain  how  the  adjusted  means  were 
derived, and to provide results, which more appropriately summarised the data. The applicant supplied 
the  recalculated  marginally  weighted  adjusted  means  for  the  primary  and  other  endpoints  (absolute 
changes in FVC, changes in urine GAG levels, liver and spleen volumes), including them in the SPC.  
The  use  of  minimisation  for treatment allocation in the study TKT024 was a potential concern. The 
applicant was asked to provide further details of how the minimisation was performed; particularly the 
element  of  randomisation  in  this  procedure  was  to  be  clearly  explained.  The  applicant  clearly 
described  the  workings  of  the  dynamic  allocation  procedure.  The  p-value  from  the  permutation  test 
(p=0.0197)  was  not  as  extreme  as  that  from  the  original  ANOVA  (p=0.0049),  however  statistical 
significance was still achieved. 
With respect to neurological development progress and bioavailability of the enzyme in the CNS, the 
applicant commented that as a protein, idursulfase was not expected to cross the blood brain barrier 
and therefore it was not expected to have any effect on CNS disease, if present.  Since somatic disease 
is  independent  of  CNS  disease,  it  was  expected  that  somatic  disease  would  respond  to  idursulfase 
regardless of the presence or absence of CNS involvement. The bioavailability of idursulfase within 
the CNS was not assessed in the pivotal trial. 
More information on the appropriate dose, dose schedule and infusion time was warranted since the 
submitted dose finding study was inconclusive. Accordingly, the applicant has committed to submit, 
as a post-authorisation follow up measure.   
Long-term data on relevant clinical end-points was also requested. The applicant has agreed to gather, 
as a specific obligation, long-term safety and efficacy data, with comparison to historical data, through 
establishment of a patient registry; the Hunter Outcome Survey (HOS) with a commitment to continue 
to analyze data for at least the first 10 years. 
Further  information  was  also  asked  to  be  provided  post-authorisation  in  the  younger  population  < 
5years.The  applicant  conducted  analyses  of  the  effects  of  age  on  idursulfase  pharmacodynamics, 
pharmacokinetics  and  immunogenicity  for  various  age  categories  above  the  age  of  5.  The  analysis 
demonstrated that overall, although younger patients may have higher urinary GAG levels relative to 
older  patients,  age  however,  does  not  appear  to  have  any  clinically  relevant  effects  on  idursulfase 
pharmacokinetics  or  immunogenicity.    However,  the  applicant  has  committed  to  a  study  in  children 
less than 5 years of age, the protocol for which will be submitted as a follow-up measure.  The study is 
primarily  a  safety  study,  although  PK,  PD  and  urine  GAG  will  also  be  evaluated.    Any  additional 
information collected through HOS on treatment of patients under 5 will also be evaluated. 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
All  patients  receiving  any  amount  of  study  drug  were  included  in  this  safety  analysis.  The  safety 
database includes data from 108 male patients with Hunter syndrome between the ages of 5.0 and 30.9 
years at first infusion. The first enrolment dates and cut-off dates for submission of this dossier were 
the following:  
Table 10  Start and cut-off dates for collection of data 
Study 
TKT008 
TKT018 (ongoing) 
TKT024 
TKT024EXT (ongoing) 
*Further immunogenicity data for TKT024/024EXT was submitted on the 03 March 2006 
First enrolment date 
23 APR 2001 
08 OCT 2001 
18 SEP 2003 
13 SEP 2004 
Cut-off date 
26 MAR 2002 (LPV) 
30 MAR 2004 
16 MAR 2005 (LPV)* 
04 APR 2005* 
©EMEA 2007 
30/43 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Due  to  differences  in  study  designs,  dosing  regimens,  and  dose  levels,  safety  data  have  not  been 
pooled across studies and an integrated statistical analysis of data was not performed.  Therefore, all 
safety  data  are  summarized  descriptively.    Safety  evaluations  included  vital  sign  measurements, 
oxygen saturation, physical examinations, adverse event (AE) assessments, electrocardiograms (ECG), 
serum  chemistry  and  haematology  laboratory  tests,  urinalysis,  and  testing  for  anti-idursulfase 
antibodies. 
As a conservative measure of safety, any partial infusion administered was counted as a whole dose.  
A total of 5,321 idursulfase infusions have been administered to date across studies, regardless of dose 
level or dose regimen.  The majority of infusions (3,209) were administered during 1 year of study in 
TKT024  (see  Table  11).    Due  to  differences  in  dosing  intervals  and  dose  levels  administered  in  the 
idursulfase clinical trials, exposure data have not been integrated for this submission.   
Table 11 
Total Numbers of Infusions Administered in the Idursulfase Clinical Studies 
TKT008 
TKT018 
TKT024 
TKT024EX
T 
Idursulfase Dose Level and Regimen 
0.15 
mg/kg 
EOW 
0.5 
mg/k
g 
EOW 
3 
1.5 
mg/k
g 
EOW 
3 
0.15 
mg/kg 
EOW 
0.5 
mg/kg 
EOW 
1.5 
mg/k
g 
EOW 
4a 
0.5 
mg/kg 
Weekl
y 
32c 
0.5 
mg/kg 
EOW 
0.5 
mg/kg 
Weekly 
4a 
12a,b 
3 
36 
35 
35 
105 
Number 
of patients 
Number 
of 
infusions 
EOW=Every other week. 
a Includes patients randomized to placebo in TKT008. 
b All patients were transitioned to 0.5 mg/kg every other week from October to November 2002. 
c One patient died after receiving only 1 dose of idursulfase in TKT024. 
d All patients who completed TKT024, including patients randomized to placebo. 
1580 
1629 
811 
32 
64 
94d 
1026 
In study TKT024 compliance with the treatment regimen was high, with few missed infusions.  Of the 
possible  52  infusions,  patients  in  the  idursulfase  weekly  dose  group  received  an  average  of  49.4 
infusions  (range  1  to  52),  patients  in  the idursulfase every other week group received an average of 
50.9  infusions  (range  49  to  52),  and  patients  in  the  placebo  group  received  an  average  of  50.4 
infusions (range 34 to 52).  Mean durations of exposure also were similar among idursulfase weekly, 
idursulfase every other week, and placebo groups (49.6, 51.1, and 50.6 weeks, respectively). 
For  patients  enrolled  in  the  ongoing  study  TKT024EXT,  the  extent  of  exposure  to  idursulfase  was 
calculated from the date of the first infusion after enrolment into the extension study until the day of 
the last reported infusion as of the data cut-off for this submission.  Patients who were randomized to 
idursulfase every other week in TKT024 had their exposure increased to weekly infusions and patients 
randomized to placebo in TKT024 received their first infusion of idursulfase in this extension study. 
In study TKT008 study drug infusions were administered every other week for 24 weeks, for a total of 
12 infusions  per  patient  (3  patients  at  each  of  the  3  idursulfase  dose  levels  and  3  patients  receiving 
placebo).    Three  patients  received  all  12  infusions  of  idursulfase  at  the  0.15 mg/kg  dose;  2 patients 
received 12 infusions and 1 patient received 11 infusions of idursulfase at the 0.5 mg/kg dose; and 2 
patients received 12 infusions and 1 patient received 11 infusions of 1.5 mg/kg of idursulfase. The 3 
patients randomized to placebo received all 12 infusions of placebo.  All patients received treatment 
for 152 to 154 days. 
In TKT018, all 12 patients randomized to treatment in TKT008 received active idursulfase, including 
the 3 placebo patients in TKT008.  During the study, all patients were later transitioned from October 
to  November  2002  to  idursulfase  0.5  mg/kg  every  other  week  and  have  continued  treatment  at  this 
dose to date.  Exposure data for TKT018 were calculated from the first active dose of idursulfase in 
©EMEA 2007 
31/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TKT008  for  patients  who  received  idursulfase  in  TKT008  and  from  the  first  dose  of  idursulfase  in 
TKT018 for patients who had been randomized to placebo in TKT008. 
•  Adverse events 
Controlled studies (Phase III and phase I/II) 
No  patients  withdrew  from  study  TKT024  due  to  an  adverse  event.    Two  patients  died  during  the 
study  (1  idursulfase  weekly  patient  and  1  placebo  patient).    The  patient  who  was  randomized  to 
weekly  idursulfase  died  of  cardiac  arrest  12  days  after  receiving  only  1  dose  of  study  drug.    The 
placebo  patient  received  34  infusions  of  blinded  study drug prior to experiencing lung haemorrhage 
due to streptococcal pneumonia infection and his subsequent death. 
Common adverse events in Study TKT 024 are shown in Table 12. 
Table 12 
Number and Percentage of Patients with the Most Common (at Least 10% 
of Patients in Any Treatment Group) Treatment Emergent Adverse Events 
in TKT024, by Treatment Group 
System Organ Class 
Preferred Term 
Any System Organ Class 
Infections and Infestations 
  Upper Respiratory Tract Infection NOS 
  Ear Infection NOS 
  Otitis Media NOS 
  Otitis Media Serous NOS 
  Sinusitis NOS 
Psychiatric Disorders 
  Anxiety 
Nervous System Disorders 
  Headache 
  Dizziness 
Ear and Labyrinth Disorders 
  Otorrhea 
  Ear Pain 
  Hypoacusis 
Vascular Disorders 
  Hypertension 
  Flushing 
  Hypotension 
  Poor Venous Access 
Respiratory, Thoracic and Mediastinal Disorders 
  Cough 
  Nasal Congestion 
  Pharyngitis 
  Rhinorrhoea  
  Nasopharyngitis 
  Dyspnoea NOS 
  Wheezing 
  Rhonchi 
  Bronchospasm NOS 
  Epistaxis 
  Rhinitis NOS 
Gastrointestinal Disorders 
Number (%) of Patients 
Placebo 
(n=32) 
32 (100.0) 
25 (78.1) 
10 (31.3) 
9 (28.1) 
7 (21.9) 
4 (12.5) 
3 (9.4) 
5 (15.6) 
0 
20 (62.5) 
14 (43.8) 
8 (25.0) 
20 (62.5) 
9 (28.1) 
6 (18.8) 
4 (12.5) 
15 (46.9) 
7 (21.9) 
6 (18.8) 
4 (12.5) 
2 (6.3) 
30 (93.8) 
19 (59.4) 
12 (37.5) 
10 (31.3) 
9 (28.1) 
5 (15.6) 
9 (28.1) 
5 (15.6) 
5 (15.6) 
5 (15.6) 
5 (15.6) 
4 (12.5) 
27 (84.4) 
0.5 mg/kg Idursulfase 
EOW 
Weekly  
(n=32) 
(n=32) 
32 (100.0) 
27 (84.4) 
12 (37.5) 
8 (25.0) 
6 (18.8) 
4 (12.5) 
5 (15.6) 
7 (21.9) 
2 (6.3) 
22 (68.8) 
19 (59.4) 
4 (12.5) 
14 (43.8) 
7 (21.9) 
7 (21.9) 
1 (3.1) 
16 (50.0) 
8 (25.0) 
5 (15.6) 
3 (9.4) 
2 (6.3) 
31 (96.9) 
16 (50.0) 
12 (37.5) 
13 (40.6) 
9 (28.1) 
4 (12.5) 
4 (12.5) 
5 (15.6) 
3 (9.4) 
3 (9.4) 
2 (6.3) 
4 (12.5) 
24 (75.0) 
32 (100.0) 
24 (75.0) 
12 (37.5) 
9 (28.1) 
7 (21.9) 
3 (9.4) 
2 (6.3) 
10 (31.3) 
4 (12.5) 
27 (84.4) 
21 (65.6) 
6 (18.8) 
20 (62.5) 
7 (21.9) 
5 (15.6) 
5 (15.6) 
16 (50.0) 
5 (15.6) 
5 (15.6) 
2 (6.3) 
4 (12.5) 
29 (90.6) 
16 (50.0) 
16 (50.0) 
11 (34.4) 
10 (31.3) 
8 (25.0) 
3 (9.4) 
5 (15.6) 
4 (12.5) 
2 (6.3) 
1 (3.1) 
0 
26 (81.3) 
©EMEA 2007 
32/43 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12 
Number and Percentage of Patients with the Most Common (at Least 10% 
of Patients in Any Treatment Group) Treatment Emergent Adverse Events 
in TKT024, by Treatment Group 
System Organ Class 
Preferred Term 
Number (%) of Patients 
Placebo 
(n=32) 
0.5 mg/kg Idursulfase 
EOW 
Weekly  
(n=32) 
(n=32) 
18 (56.3) 
17 (53.1) 
12 (37.5) 
9 (28.1) 
2 (6.3) 
4 (12.5) 
20 (62.5) 
11 (34.4) 
6 (18.8) 
5 (15.6) 
5 (15.6) 
4 (12.5) 
22 (68.8) 
8 (25.0) 
11 (34.4) 
11 (34.4) 
7 (21.9) 
5 (15.6) 
4 (12.5) 
22 (68.8) 
8 (25.0) 
10 (31.3) 
5 (15.6) 
2 (6.3) 
5 (15.6) 
19 (59.4) 
16 (50.0) 
11 (34.4) 
15 (46.9) 
9 (28.1) 
2 (6.3) 
0 
22 (68.8) 
11 (34.4) 
5 (15.6) 
0 
2 (6.3) 
0 
21 (65.6) 
  Vomiting NOS 
  Abdominal Pain NOS 
  Diarrhoea 
  Nausea  
  Abdominal Pain Upper 
  Dyspepsia 
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders 
  Rash 
  Pruritus 
  Rash Pruritic 
  Contusion 
  Urticaria NOS 
Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue 
Disorders 
  Arthralgia 
  Pain in Limb 
  Back Pain 
  Myalgia 
  Neck Pain 
  Peripheral Swelling 
  Chest Wall Pain 
General Disorders and Administration Site 
Conditions 
  Pyrexia 
  Influenza-like Illness 
  Fatigue 
  Infusion Site Swelling 
  Malaise 
  Fall 
Injury, Poisoning and Procedural Complications 
  Head Injury 
Patient population:  Safety population (all patients who received 1 dose [or partial dose] of study 
drug). 
Patients are counted only once within each system organ class and preferred term. 
Most common events occurring in at least 4 patients in any dose group. 
10 (31.3) 
9 (28.1) 
8 (25.0) 
3 (9.4) 
3 (9.4) 
1 (3.1) 
4 (12.5) 
26 (81.3) 
9 (28.1) 
10 (31.3) 
8 (25.0) 
3 (9.4) 
3 (9.4) 
2 (6.3) 
0 
26 (81.3) 
14 (43.8) 
9 (28.1) 
11 (34.4) 
4 (12.5) 
4 (12.5) 
4 (12.5) 
0 
26 (81.3) 
18 (56.3) 
8 (25.0) 
4 (12.5) 
4 (12.5) 
1 (3.1) 
4 (12.5) 
15 (46.9) 
4 (12.5) 
20 (62.5) 
3 (9.4) 
2 (6.3) 
4 (12.5) 
5 (15.6) 
0 
12 (37.5) 
0 
19 (59.4) 
4 (12.5) 
3 (9.4) 
1 (3.1) 
3 (9.4) 
4 (12.5) 
10 (31.3) 
1 (3.1) 
The  overall  incidences  of  adverse  events  as  well  as  those  adverse  events  reported  most  commonly 
(10% of patients in any treatment group) were similar across treatment groups. 
In  the  Phase  I/II  study  TKT008,  all  patients  in  the  placebo  and  idursulfase  treatment  groups 
experienced  at  least  1  adverse  event.    No  patients  were  withdrawn  from  the  study  due  to  adverse 
events and no patient died as of the data cut-off for this submission 
All 12 patients experienced at least 1 adverse event during the first idursulfase study (TKT008).  The 
incidence of AEs was slightly higher in the 1.5 mg/kg every other week group than in the 0.5 mg/kg 
group. 
Uncontrolled Studies 
©EMEA 2007 
33/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All  94  patients  who  completed  TKT024  enrolled  in  TKT024EXT.    No  patient  withdrew  from  the 
study  due  to  an  adverse  event  as  of  the  data  cut-off.    More  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  and 
related adverse events were reported for patients randomized to placebo in TKT024 This was similar 
to the safety data from TKT024, during which adverse events were reported more frequently during 
the  first  6  months  than  during  the  latter  6 months  of  study.    One  patient  (randomized  to  idursulfase 
every other week in TKT024) died during the study.   
Erythema, rash NOS, urticaria NOS, flushing, and tachycardia NOS each occurred more frequently in 
TKT024 placebo patients as compared with patients who received idursulfase weekly or every other 
week in TKT024. 
An  overall  summary  of  adverse  events  (as  provided  above  for  Studies  TKT008,  TKT024  and 
TKT024EXT) could not be tabulated for TKT018 due to differences in dose levels and dose regimens 
as well as the different lengths of observation during the study. This also applies for the adverse drug 
reactions.   
•  Adverse Drug Reactions  
Controlled Studies:  
In TKT024, the most common AEs considered possibly or probably related to study drug included:  
•  Headache  (9/32,  28.1%),  pruritus,  pyrexia  (each  7/32,  21.9%),  hypertension  (6/32,  18.8%), 
rash NOS, and urticaria NOS (each 5/32 15.6%) in the idursulfase weekly group.  
•  Pyrexia  (7/32,  21.9%),  headache,  rash  NOS  (each  6/32,  18.8%),  flushing  (5/32,  15.6%), 
hypertension NOS, abdominal pain, pruritus, urticaria NOS, and fatigue (each 4/32, 12.5%) in 
the idursulfase every other week group.   
•  Placebo  patients  most  frequently  experienced  headache,  pyrexia,  (each  8/32,  25.0%), 
hypertension  NOS,  rash  NOS  (each  6/32,  18.8%),  flushing,  hypotension  NOS,  nausea,  and 
pruritus (each 3/32, 9.4%). 
In  TKT008  the  most  common  adverse  events  considered  possibly  or  probably  related  to  study  drug 
were flushing, pyrexia, rigors, urticaria NOS, dizziness and headache NOS.  
Uncontrolled Studies 
During  TKT024EXT  (up  to  the  data  cut-off  for  this  submission),  a  total  of  129  possibly/probably 
related  adverse  events  were  reported  in  19  TKT024  placebo  patients  compared  with  34 
possibly/probably  related  adverse  events  reported  in  7  TKT024  idursulfase  weekly  patients  and  19 
possibly/probably related adverse events reported in 6 TKT024 idursulfase every other week patients).  
This result was similar to the safety experience observed in TKT024. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In TKT024 a total of 49 treatment-emergent SAEs occurred in 26 patients during this study (9 patients 
in  the  idursulfase  weekly  group  experienced  a  total  of  13  SAEs,  8  patients  in  the  idursulfase  EOW 
group experienced a total of 18 SAEs, and 9 patients in the placebo group experienced a total of 18 
SAEs).    One  additional  patient  (idursulfase  EOW)  experienced  a  SAE,  a  porta-cath  placement  that 
occurred  prior  to  the  patient’s  first  idursulfase  infusion.    Central  venous  catheterization  was 
prospectively  captured  as  a  SAE  and  was  coded  as  “poor  venous  access.”    The  incidence  of  “poor 
venous  access”  was  similar  across  treatment  groups  and  was  due  to  the  route  of  administration  of 
idursulfase.    The  majority  of  SAEs  were  considered  unrelated  to  study  drug;  3  patients  experienced 
SAEs that were considered to be possibly or probably related to study drug:  
•  2 patients in idursulfase weekly group: 1 cyanosis, 1 pulmonary embolism 
©EMEA 2007 
34/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
•  1 patient in placebo group: 1 cutaneous rash 
In TKT024EXT 6 patients experienced a total of 8 SAEs up to and including the patient’s last infusion 
before the data cut-off.  All SAEs were considered unrelated to study drug. 
From  the  beginning  of  TKT008,  a  total  of  15  SAEs  have  been  reported  in  7  patients.  Of  the  SAEs 
reported  during TKT008 and TKT018, 8 were considered to be infusion-related reactions, including 
the  2  hypoxia  SAEs  and  1  respiratory  distress  SAE  reported  by  1  patient,  facial  flushing,  facial 
swelling, rigors, and urticaria, all reported by 1 patient, and the respiratory distress SAE reported by 1 
other patient.  All of these SAEs occurred while patients were receiving idursulfase 0.5 mg/kg every 
other week. 
Deaths 
Four patients died during their participation in idursulfase clinical trials.  
•  TKT024: 2 patients 
•  TKT024EXT: 1 patient  
•  TKT018: 1 patient.   
None of the reported deaths was determined to be related to idursulfase.   
•  Laboratory findings 
Haematology Parameters 
In the pivotal trial, for red blood cell parameters (haemoglobin, haematocrit, and RBC count), up to 4 
patients in each of the 3 treatment groups had values that shifted from normal at baseline, to low at 
Week  53.    Placebo  patients  had  shifts  from  normal  to  low  in  platelet  counts,  WBC  counts,  and 
neutrophil  counts.  No  shifts  in  haematology  parameters,  including  long-term  treatment  in  TKT018, 
suggested  increased  safety  risk  with  either  the idursulfase weekly or the idursulfase EOW treatment 
regimens, compared with placebo.  
Chemistry Parameters 
In TKT024 shifts from normal to low, or high, in serum chemistry parameters occurred sporadically.  
More patients in the idursulfase treatment groups (4 patients in each group) compared with the placebo 
group (1 patient) had high phosphorus values at Week 53. Shifts from high to normal at Week 53 were 
slightly more common in the idursulfase weekly group than the placebo group for total bilirubin and 
alkaline phosphatase.  None of the shifts in serum chemistry parameters suggested an increased safety 
risk with either the idursulfase weekly or the idursulfase every other week compared with placebo. In 
TKT008, no clear dose-related adverse effects could be identified in any of the parameters. 
Clinically Significant Laboratory Results 
The  majority  of  patients  in  TKT024  had  at  least  1  laboratory  value  that  was  considered  clinically 
significant during the study.  The majority of these values were considered to be related to concurrent 
disease or unknown causes, rather than to study drug. 7 idursulfase weekly, 3 idursulfase every other 
week  and  4  placebo  patients  experienced  at  least  1  clinically  significant  laboratory  value  that  was 
considered  to  be  related  to  study  drug.    For  the  idursulfase  patients,  these  laboratory  abnormalities 
were  mostly  related  to  infusion  reactions  (abnormalities  in  serum  tryptase,  C3,  C4,  total  serum 
complement),  but  also  included  abnormalities  in  red  blood  cells,  haemoglobin,  haematocrit,  alkaline 
phosphatase, lactic dehydrogenase, and serum uric acid levels. All laboratory AEs considered related 
to  study  drug  experienced  by  patients  treated  with  idursulfase  were  considered  mild  (Grade 1)  in 
severity, except for increased blood bilirubin, which was considered severe (Grade 3).  This patient’s 
bilirubin  levels  were  abnormal  at  baseline,  increased  at  Week  9,  and  returned  to  baseline  levels 
thereafter. 
Immunogenicity 
The data showed that the majority of infusion-related adverse events (IRAEs) reported during TKT024 
occurred  during  the  first  6  months  of  the  study.    For  both  the  weekly  and  EOW  groups,  a  greater 
incidence of IRAEs were reported among IgG positive patients compared with IgG negative patients.  
However,  the  peak  rates  of  IRAEs  occurred  within  the  first  6 months  and  these  results  seem  to 
©EMEA 2007 
35/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
corroborate the results of seropositivity, which also indicated that peak rates were observed within the 
first  6  months  of  treatment  and  declined  thereafter.    Thus,  it  appears  that  patients  may  develop 
tolerance  to  the  infusions  during  long-term  treatment.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  evaluate  the 
effects of antibodies on efficacy through the HOS registry.  
With respect to infusion reactions as well as respiratory infusion reactions, although comparative AE 
rates within a given treatment group did not reveal a clear stepwise increase in AE rates as pulmonary 
function  declined,  the  highest  AE  rate  was  observed  in  subjects  with  an  FVC  ≤40%  predicted, 
irrespective of treatment assignment. In addition, IRAEs appeared to be highest in the weekly dosed 
group in subjects with an FVC ≤40% predicted. It is notable that 81 % of IRAEs in the weekly group 
occurred  in  subjects  who  developed  antibodies  at  some  time  point  in  their  treatment  across  all  four 
FVC  categories  suggesting  an  association  between  the  likelihood  of  experiencing  an  IRAE  and  the 
tendency  to  develop  antibodies  to  idursulfase.  With  respect  to  respiratory  infusion  related  adverse 
events  (RIR-AEs)  there  seemed  to  be  a  correlation  between  increasing  number  of  events  with 
increasing severity of respiratory disease. However, data is still inconclusive due to small numbers and 
will continue to be collected through Hunter Outcomes Survey. 
There do not appear to be any definitive risk factors presently identifiable apart from higher antibody 
positivity in pre-pubertal patients, however small numbers of patients preclude definitive conclusions 
to  be  drawn.  The  applicant  will  conduct  an  evaluation  of  the  genetic  mutations  in  patients  from 
TKT024 in an effort to determine whether there are one or more common genotypes that are highly 
associated with subsequent antibody formation. 
Additional  immunogenicity  data  from  TKT024/024EXT  using  a  new  validated  assay  with  a 
conformation specific antibody was submitted on 03 March 2006. Reanalysis of the samples using the 
new  assay  showed  that  in  TKT024,  30  of  the  64  idursulfase  treated  patients  were  determined  to  be 
antibody  positive  during  the  52-week  study.   This  compares  to  6  of  64  idursulfase  treated  patients 
reported  initially  in  the  MAA.    Four  of  the  30  antibody  positive  patients  were  confirmed  to  have 
enzyme  neutralizing  activity.  In  study  TKT024EXT,  39  of  the  94  idursulfase  treated  patients  were 
determined to be antibody positive.  Some of these patients have received up to 88 weeks of treatment 
in  studies  TKT024  and  TKT024EXT. Seven  of  the  39  antibody  positive  patients  were  confirmed  to 
have enzyme neutralizing activity.  Four of these patients were the same as those determined to have 
neutralizing antibodies during TKT024. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Hunter syndrome is caused by a mutation in the gene for iduronate-2-sulfatase, which results in either 
an  enzyme  with  deficient  activity,  or  in  lack  of  expression  of  any  enzyme  at  all.  In  either  case,  the 
mutation  causes  a  clear  disease  state.  Therefore,  the  alterations  in  the  I2S  gene  that underlie Hunter 
syndrome  are  not  considered  polymorphisms.  There  are  no  known  true  gene  polymorphisms  that 
would be expected to impact the efficacy or safety of enzyme replacement therapy with idursulfase. 
Because idursulfase is not cleared through renal or hepatic mechanisms, renal or hepatic insufficiency 
should not affect the overall safety profile.  
All  idursulfase  doses  were  calculated  on  a  milligram  per  kilogram  basis.  The  patient  populations 
evaluated  in  the  clinical  studies  were  primarily  paediatric-aged;  therefore,  no  safety-related  dose 
adjustment was made for these patients. The three age categories were defined as 5 to 11 years, 12 to 
18  years,  and  ≥19  years,  and  were  meant  to  group  the  study  population  into  pre-pubertal,  post-
pubertal,  and  adult  patients.    Rates  of  infusion-related  AEs  by  age  category  and  treatment  group 
showed that older patients tended to experience more of these AEs compared to younger patients.   
Patients with Hunter syndrome can develop progressive restrictive pulmonary disease mainly due to 
musculoskeletal  involvement  and  further  complicated  by  severe  airway  obstruction  secondary  to 
oropharyngeal  and  respiratory  deposition  of  GAG.  Respiratory  tract  infections  are  common 
complications in these patients, who may be very sensitive to any additional bronchopulmonary insult.  
In clinical studies, acute episodes of respiratory distress with hypoxia were reported during idursulfase 
infusions;  they  all  resolved  with  appropriate  therapeutic  measures.    Patients  at  risk  were  primarily 
©EMEA 2007 
36/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
those with severe underlying obstructive airway disease. Acute respiratory reactions will be monitored 
as part of the Pharmacovigilance Plan, especially in patients with obstructive airway disease. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No formal drug interaction studies have been conducted with idursulfase. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Overall,  therapy  with  idursulfase  was  generally  well  tolerated  at  a  dose  level  of  0.5  mg/kg 
administered both weekly and every other week. No patient has withdrawn from a study to date due to 
an adverse event related to idursulfase The main safety concerns with idursulfase appear to be infusion 
associated  reactions  (IARs)  and  immunogenicity.  IARs  appear  to  be  related  to  the  dose  and  the 
frequency of administration since they were more common in the weekly schedules compared to EOW 
and no IARs were reported in patients on the lower dose of 0.15 mg. However, the frequency of IARs 
seems greatest during the first 6-12 months of treatment and decreases over time. Infusion-related AEs 
were  also  frequently  reported  in  the  placebo  group.  This  appears  to  suggest  that  there  is  a  baseline 
incidence of AEs that may be caused directly by the infusion procedure itself (e.g., vagal reactions). 
The  IARs  were  manageable  either  by  temporary  interruption  or  slowing  of  the  infusion  rate  and  in 
some cases by the use of premedication. While the majority of SAEs were considered to be unrelated, 
it is important to note that some drug-related SAEs do appear to be of particular concern. These were 
reported in 5 patients treated with 0.5 mg/kg weekly or EOW schedules.  Four patients experienced a 
hypoxic episode during one or several infusions, which necessitated oxygen therapy in 3 patients with 
severe  underlying  obstructive  airway  disease  including  2  with  a  tracheostomy.    The  most  severe 
episode,  which  was  associated  with  a  short  seizure,  occurred  in  a  patient  who  received  his  infusion 
while  he  had  a  febrile  respiratory  exacerbation.  In  the  last  patient,  who  had  less  severe  underlying 
disease,  spontaneous  resolution  occurred  shortly  after  the  infusion  was  interrupted.  However,  these 
events did not recur with subsequent infusions using a slower infusion rate and administration of pre-
infusion  medication,  usually  with 
low-dose  corticosteroids,  antihistamine,  and  beta-agonist 
nebulization.  The  fifth  patient,  who  had  pre-existing  cardiopathy,  was  diagnosed  with  ventricular 
premature complexes and pulmonary embolism during the study. Nevertheless, it is conceivable that 
patients with severely compromised airways may also be at particular risk of respiratory insufficiency 
due  to  sedative  effects  of  premedication.  It  is  also  important  to  note  that  in  some  patients  who  may 
have  severe  underlying  cardiopulmonary  disease,  infusion  associated  reactions  may  be  less  well-
tolerated. 
Four patients (1 on placebo) died during their participation in the clinical trials. None of the reported 
deaths were determined to be related to idursulfase. 
There  were  no  apparent  trends  in  AE  incidence  rates  and  generally  the  AEs  were  those  expected 
among a primarily paediatric population over 12 months of study. The most commonly reported AEs 
were similar among treatment groups. 
With  respect  to  infusion  reactions  as  well  as  respiratory  infusion  reactions  there  appears  to  be  an 
association between the likelihood of experiencing an IRAE and the tendency to develop antibodies to 
idursulfase. With respect to respiratory infusion related adverse events (RIR-AEs) there also seems to 
be a correlation between increasing number of events with increasing severity of respiratory disease. 
However, data is still inconclusive due to small numbers and will continue to be collected as through 
the Hunter Outcomes Survey. 
There do not appear to be any definitive risk factors presently identifiable apart from higher antibody 
positivity in pre-pubertal patients, however small numbers of patients preclude definitive conclusions 
to  be  drawn.  The  applicant  will  conduct  an  evaluation  of  the  genetic  mutations  in  patients  from 
TKT024 in an effort to determine whether there are one or more common genotypes that are highly 
associated with subsequent antibody formation. 
©EMEA 2007 
37/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Although the updated safety review provided by the applicant is generally consistent with the data in 
the original dossier, it should be noted that this only relates to a further 3 months of safety data. This 
period  of  follow  up  was  not  sufficient  to  draw  firm  conclusions  on  safety  with  respect  to 
immunogenicity,  especially  as  regards  infusion  reactions,  respiratory  infusion  reactions  and  in 
particular,  the  sudden  increase  in  vascular  and  skin  reactions  with  the  commercial  product. 
Additionally,  the  small  number  of  patients  included  in  the  analyses  preclude  firm  conclusions  to  be 
drawn. The applicant has committed to address these issues through the HOS registry and follow up 
measures. 
 In  addition,  there  is  no  data  on  patients  after  re-exposure  after  temporary  discontinuation.  In  the 
pivotal  study,  although  antibodies  including  neutralising  antibodies  have  no  clear  effect  on  the 
efficacy, there is some indication of a loss of efficacy in antibody positive patients. This point will be 
further addressed in the Hunter Outcome Survey.  
The applicant has also committed to monitor the safety of home therapy in the HOS.  
5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk Management Plan 
The MAH submitted a risk management plan.  
Table 13. Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
pharmacovigilance 
Respiratory 
infusion-related 
reactions 
Immunogenicity  and 
hypersensitivity 
reactions 
Proposed 
activities 
•  Continue to monitor through 
the Hunter Outcome Survey 
(HOS), clinical studies 
TKT018, TKT024EXT and 
TKT031NPU 
(PSURs, 
pharmacovigilance 
AE 
internal 
•  Routine 
activities 
reporting,  monthly 
safety review meetings) 
•  Continue to monitor through 
the Hunter Outcome Survey 
(HOS), clinical studies 
TKT018, TKT024EXT and 
TKT031NPU 
•  HOS immunogenicity sub-
study  
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities (PSURs, AE 
reporting, monthly internal 
safety review meetings), 
ongoing monitoring of by 
request for antibody samples 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
•  Statements included in SPC section 
4.4 on infusion reaction symptoms, 
treatment of patients with severe 
underlying airway disease and 
treatment of patients with acute febrile 
respiratory illness.   
•  Summary  of  infusion-related  events 
provided in SPC section 4.8 
•  Contraindication for patients with 
known hypersensitivity to the active 
substance or any excipient in section 
4.3 of the SPC 
•  Statement included in SPC section 4.4 
on the development of antibodies and 
management of anaphylactic (allergic-
type) reactions.   
•  Summary of immunogenicity 
observed in the clinical trials provided 
in SPC section 4.8 
©EMEA 2007 
38/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
1-hour infusions 
Patients  with hepatic 
or renal impairment 
Children under 5 
Female patients 
Elderly patients 
Home therapy 
pharmacovigilance 
Proposed 
activities 
•  Continue to monitor through 
the Hunter Outcome Survey 
(HOS) and clinical study 
TKT018 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities (PSURs, AE 
reporting, monthly internal 
safety review meetings), 
including specific monitoring 
of safety of 1-hour infusions 
in PSURs 
•  Monitor through the Hunter 
Outcome Survey (HOS) 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities (PSURs, AE 
reporting, monthly internal 
safety review meetings) 
•  Monitor through the Hunter 
Outcome Survey (HOS), and 
HOS under 5 sub-study 
(TKT038)  
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities (PSURs, AE 
reporting, monthly internal 
safety review meetings) 
•  Monitor through the Hunter 
Outcome Survey (HOS) 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities (PSURs, AE 
reporting, monthly internal 
safety review meetings) 
•  Monitor through the Hunter 
Outcome Survey (HOS) 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities (PSURs, AE 
reporting, monthly internal 
safety review meetings) 
•  Monitor through the Hunter 
Outcome Survey (HOS) 
•  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities (PSURs, AE 
reporting, monthly internal 
safety review meetings) 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
•  Statement included in SPC section 4.2 
that advises physicians that the 
product should be administered by 
intravenous infusion over a 3 hour 
period, which may be gradually 
reduced to 1 hour if no infusion-
associated reactions are observed. 
• 
• 
Information provided in SPC section 
4.2 that there is no clinical experience 
in patients with renal or hepatic 
insufficiency, together with statement 
on clearance mechanisms in section 
5.2  
Information provided in SPC section 
4.2 that there is no clinical experience 
in patients under 5 year of age 
•  Section 4.1 of the SPC identifies that 
there is no clinical trial data in female 
heterozygous patients 
• 
• 
Information provided in SPC section 
4.2 that there is no clinical experience 
in patients over 65 years of age. 
Information included in SPC section 
4.4 on infusion reaction symptoms, 
treatment of patients with severe 
underlying airway disease and 
treatment of patients with acute febrile 
respiratory illness.   
•  Statement included in SPC section 4.2 
that advises physicians that the 
product should be administered by 
intravenous infusion over a 3 hour 
period, which may be gradually 
reduced to 1 hour if no infusion-
associated reactions are observed. 
©EMEA 2007 
39/43 
 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
6.  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with  existing  guidelines.  The  fermentation  and  purification  of  the  active  substance,  have  been 
adequately described, controlled and validated. The active substance has been well characterised with 
regard  to  its  physicochemical  and  biological  characteristics,  using  state-of  the-art  methods,  and 
appropriate specifications have been set. The manufacturing process of the medicinal product has been 
satisfactorily described and validated. The quality of the medicinal product is controlled by adequate 
test methods and specifications. The viral safety and the safety concerning other adventitious agents 
including  TSE  have  been  sufficiently  assured.  Except  for  a  number  of  quality  points,  which  will  be 
addressed  as  part  of  post-approval  follow-up  measures,  the  overall  quality of Elaprase is considered 
acceptable. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The pharmacokinetic properties of idursulfase in animal models (mice, rats and monkeys) have been 
reasonably well characterised. Results have shown that it has a biphasic serum elimination profile with 
mean elimination half-lives of less than 5 to 6 hours in all cases. Values for Cmax were proportional to 
dose  for  all  species.    However,  AUC  values  were  not  linearly  proportional  to  dose,  indicating  that 
serum  clearance  mechanisms  had  become  saturated  at  doses  of  0.5  mg·kg-1  or  higher  in  monkeys.  
Clearance saturation was also seen at 2.5 and 12.5 mg·kg-1 in rats. However, due to limited dose range 
tested  in  rats,  it  was  not  possible  to  confirm  the  lowest  dose  of  idursulfase  which  would  saturate 
clearance  in  this  species.    Serum  clearance  of  idursulfase  followed  allometric  scaling  parameters 
relative  to  body  weight  across  species  (rodents,  monkeys  and  humans),  indicating  that  clearance  of 
idursulfase from serum likely occurs via a common mechanism. In the minority of monkeys in which 
development  of  antibodies  to  idursulfase  occurred,  this was usually, but not always, associated with 
enhanced clearance. 
Idursulfase  was  detected  in  all  organs  and  tissues  examined  in  a  125I-radiolabel  rat  biodistribution 
study.    Tissue  half-lives  were  similar  for  the  major  organs  and  were  approximately  1  to  2  days  for 
liver,  kidney,  heart,  spleen,  and  bone  (including  marrow).    The  accumulation  and  retention  in  these 
organs  and  tissues  is  consistent  with  the  distribution  of  M6P  receptors  in  tissues  and  organs  in 
mammals,  and  indicates  that  the  common  pharmacokinetic  approach  defining  the  serum  half-life  is 
less relevant in determining the duration of action. 
The role of sialic acid content on in vivo properties (PK, tissue biodistribution, and pharmacodynamic 
activity)  of  idursulfase  was  examined.    Biodistribution  and  PD  activity  parameters  were  affected  by 
large variations in sialylation of idursulfase.  Idursulfase clearance from serum was modified by minor 
variations  in  sialic  acid  content  of  idursulfase,  but  was  not  associated  with  altered  activity  from  a 
biodistribution  or  PD  perspective.    Results  from  a  comparability  program,  as  part  of  tissue 
biodistribution, pharmacodynamic, and pharmacokinetic studies showed that idursulfase, regardless of 
the manufacturing process, maintained its activity profile. 
Toxicokinetic studies in rats and monkeys suggest saturated clearance mechanisms following a single 
iv administration of idursulfase at doses of 10 or 20 mg·kg-1, and at 2.5 and 12.5 mg·kg-1 following 
repeat dose administration in cynomolgus monkeys. 
There were no signs of local irritation, inflammation, or necrosis to veins or tissue related to multiple 
bolus iv injection of idursulfase. 
©EMEA 2007 
40/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As expected for a human protein administered to animals, IgG antibodies to idursulfase were detected 
in some of the monkeys after 13 or 26 weeks of dosing, and in a few knockout mice after 24 weeks of 
dosing.  These anti-idursulfase antibodies had no adverse toxicological effects nor did they impact the 
pharmacodynamic activity of idursulfase. 
Efficacy 
Efficacy data were provided from a pivotal, 12-month, Phase II/III, double-blind study (TKT024) and 
from a supportive 6-month, Phase I/II, double-blind study (TKT008) and from 24-months of treatment 
in  an  ongoing,  Phase  I/II,  open-label  extension  study  (TKT018).  TKT024EXT,  the  open-label 
extension of TKT024, is also currently ongoing.  
Results from the dose finding study showed that it is probable, judging from urinary GAG levels, that 
a weekly dose greater than 0.5 mg/kg is more effective in normalising GAG levels rapidly, followed 
by  a  lower  maintenance  dose  given  weekly  or  even  EOW.  However,  as  no  baseline  weekly  dosing 
data  was  available  for  this  study..    This  issue  will  be  investigated  in  the  Hunter  Outcome  Survey 
(HOS).  
In the clinical studies, the data are supportive of efficacy for the weekly 0.5 mg/kg dose in comparison 
to  the  every  other  week  (EOW)  dose  in  terms  of  providing  improvement  in  both  individual 
components  of  the  primary  composite  endpoint  in  the  pivotal  trial  namely,  the  6MWT  and  FVC. 
However, assessment of the evidence of clinical benefit in terms of endurance based on the 6 Minute 
Walk  Test  and  FVC  was  complicated  by  statistical  concerns  relating  to  the  adjusted  changes  from 
baseline presented, which were always lower for all treatment groups than the unadjusted changes, and 
therefore  do  not  seem  to  reflect  the  experience  of  patients  in  the  trial.  Nevertheless,  supportive 
evidence for the primary composite endpoint is provided by the reduction in hepatosplenomegaly and 
urinary glycosoaminoglycans (GAG) and importantly, the efficacy parameters show no deterioration 
at long term (1 year). The applicant currently recommends weekly dosing for all patients with Hunter 
syndrome. 
The  effect  of  antibodies  has  not  significantly  impacted  on  PK  parameters.  It  has  also  been 
demonstrated  that  there  is  no  apparent  relationship  between  weight  and  age  with  idursulfase 
pharmacokinetics  and  consequently  therefore,  no  dose  adjustments  based  on  weight  or  age  are 
necessary. A population PK model is not considered necessary. Concerns regarding immunogenicity 
affecting  PK  parameters  showed  that  patient  antibody  status  was  not  a  predominant  factor  in 
determining variations in patient PK parameters All PK concerns have now been resolved. 
The bioavailability of idursulfase within the CNS was not assessed in the pivotal trial. 
Safety 
Overall,  therapy  with  idursulfase  was  generally  well-tolerated  at  a  dose  level  of  0.5  mg/kg 
administered both weekly and every other week. No patient has withdrawn from a study to date due to 
an adverse event (AE) related to idursulfase The main safety concerns with idursulfase appear to be 
infusion  associated  reactions  (IARs)  and  immunogenicity.  Infusion  related  reactions  appear  to  be 
related to the dose and the frequency of administration since they were more common in the weekly 
schedules compared to EOW and  no IARs were reported in patients on the lower dose of 0.15 mg. 
However,  the  frequency  of  IARs  seems  greatest  during  the  first  6-12  months  of  treatment  and 
decreases  over  time.  Infusion-related  AEs  were  also  frequently  reported  in  the  placebo  group.  This 
appears to suggest that there is a baseline incidence of AEs that may be caused directly by the infusion 
procedure itself (e.g., vagal reactions). It is also reassuring to note that IARs were manageable either 
by  temporary  interruption  or  slowing  of  the  infusion  rate  and  in  some  cases  by  the  use  of 
premedication. 
Although  numbers  are  limited,  antibody  positive  patients  appeared  to  have  increased  number  of 
adverse  events  compared  to  those  who  were  negative.  However,  there  were  no  episodes  consistent 
with anaphylactic reaction to idursulfase and no patient developed IgE antibodies.  
©EMEA 2007 
41/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Antibodies,  including  neutralising  antibodies  have  no  clear  effect  on  the  efficacy,  however  there  is 
some indication of a loss of efficacy in antibody positive patients; this will be addressed in the HOS 
(Hunter Outcome Survey) registry. 
Additional safety data provided by the applicant was generally consistent with the data in the original 
dossier,  but  only  related  to  a  further  3  months  of  safety  data.  This  period  of  follow  up  is  not  be 
sufficient  to  draw  firm  conclusions  on  safety  with  respect  to  immunogenicity,  especially  as  regards 
infusion reactions, respiratory infusion reactions and in particular, the sudden increase in vascular and 
skin reactions with the commercial product. The applicant will address these issues through the HOS 
registry.. 
•  User consultation 
The  target  patient  groups  “user  consultation”  was  assessed  as  part  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the 
D120 List of Questions. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Although  Hunter  syndrome  is  heterogeneous  with  regard  to  initial  presentation,  it  is  always  severe, 
progressive, and life-limiting, despite the use of any available therapies. Death usually occurs in the 
second or third decade of life, most often from respiratory and/or cardiac failure. Treatment represents 
an unmet medical need, since there are no satisfactory treatment options for the majority of patients. It 
is nevertheless, important to note that idursulfase is not a curative treatment as such but a replacement 
therapy for the enzyme deficiency in these patients.  
There  are  no  major  quality  or  pre-clinical  issues.  In  the  clinical  studies,  the  data  are  supportive  of 
efficacy for the weekly 0.5 mg/kg dose in comparison to the every other week (EOW) dose in terms of 
providing  improvement  in  both  individual  components  of  the  primary  composite  endpoint  in  the 
pivotal trial namely, the 6MWT and FVC. However, assessment of the evidence of clinical benefit in 
terms of endurance based on the 6 Minute Walk Test and FVC was complicated by statistical concerns 
relating  to  the  adjusted  changes  from  baseline  presented,  which  were  always  lower for all treatment 
groups than the unadjusted changes, and therefore do not seem to reflect the experience of patients in 
the  trial.  Nevertheless,  supportive  evidence  for  the  primary  composite  endpoint  is  provided  by  the 
reduction  in  hepatosplenomegaly  and  urinary  glycosoaminoglycans  and  importantly,  the  efficacy 
parameters show no deterioration at long term (1 year). 
Although  adverse  events  were  common,  particularly  infusion  associated  reactions;  serious  adverse 
events  attributable  to  idursulfase  were  uncommon.  There  were  4  deaths  during  the  clinical 
development, none of which were considered related to idursulfase. The overall limited safety profile 
does not raise major clinical issues for this focused group of patients and remains consistent with the 
updated safety data. Nevertheless, an important primary safety concern with idursulfase treatment in a 
very  small  proportion  of patients, appears to be the management and treatment of those with highly 
compromised airways, as yet mainly in the older age groups having more severe disease, with respect 
to the development of severe drug related infusion reactions causing hypoxia and necessitating oxygen 
therapy. Nevertheless, the risk of such episodes does appear to be minimised by extending the infusion 
rate  over  a  period  of  at  least  3-4  hours  and  by  the  use  of  premedication  with  antihistamine  and/or 
steroids  and  beta-agonist  nebulisation.  In  addition,  delaying  treatment  in  patients  with  acute  febrile 
respiratory  illness  could  possibly  contribute  in  risk  minimisation.  However,  limitation  or  careful 
monitoring  of  antihistamine  and  other  sedative  medication  use  in  such  patients  with  compromised 
airways appears to be important, since it could conceivably, precipitate sleep apnoea. Accordingly, the 
institution of positive–airway pressure during sleep in clinically appropriate situations is an important 
consideration and needs to be clearly communicated.  
From an immunological perspective, the effect of neutralizing antibodies on efficacy is still to be fully 
evaluated;  therefore,  no  firm  conclusions  can  be  drawn  with  respect  to  the  effect  of  neutralizing 
activity on the safety and efficacy of idursulfase. 
©EMEA 2007 
42/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Although, the studies did not include patients under the age of 5 or over the age of 31 and females, the 
Hunter  Outcomes  Survey  proposed  by  the  applicant  as  part  of  the  risk  management  plan  includes 
planned sub-studies that will provide the opportunity to further define immunogenicity and study the 
aforementioned populations. 
Considering the progressive nature of MPS II disease and the implications for prognosis, together with 
the  heterogeneity  of  patients  in  terms  of  disease  manifestation  and  age,  as  well  as  the  problems  of 
reversing  the  chronic  effects  caused  by  long  term  accumulation  of  lysosomal  storage,  the 
improvements  demonstrated  in  the  clinical  studies,  some  albeit  limited,  appear  to  represent  clinical 
benefits for MPS II patients. The safety profile from the data submitted does not raise major clinical 
concerns  for  the  majority  of  patients.  The  apparent  trend  in  efficacy  has  undergone  statistical 
clarification and confirms a positive risk/benefit.  
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion  that  pharmacovigilance  activities  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine  pharmacovigilance  were 
needed  to  investigate  further  some  of  the  safety  concerns.  No  additional  risk minimisation activities 
were required beyond those included in the product information.  
The granting of the marketing authorisation by the CHMP was done under exceptional circumstance 
as  the  indication  for  which  the  product  in  question  is  intended  is  encountered  so  rarely  that  the 
applicant cannot be expected to provide comprehensive data. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Elaprase in the Long-term treatment of patients with Hunter 
syndrome  (Mucopolysaccharidosis  II,  MPS  II)  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the 
granting of the marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances. 
©EMEA 2007 
43/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
