ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions.
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Elaprase 2 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each vial contains 6 mg of idursulfase. Each ml contains 2 mg of idursulfase*.
Excipient with known effect
Each vial contains 0.482 mmol of sodium.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
* idursulfase is produced by recombinant DNA technology in a continuous human cell line.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate).
A clear to slightly opalescent, colourless solution.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Elaprase is indicated for the long-term treatment of patients with Hunter syndrome 
(Mucopolysaccharidosis II, MPS II).
Heterozygous females were not studied in the clinical trials.
4.2
Posology and method of administration
This treatment should be supervised by a physician or other healthcare professional experienced in the 
management of patients with MPS II disease or other inherited metabolic disorders.
Posology
Elaprase is administered at a dose of 0.5 mg/kg body weight every week by intravenous infusion over 
a 3 hour period, which may be gradually reduced to 1 hour if no infusion-associated reactions are 
observed (see section 4.4).
For instructions for use, see section 6.6.
Infusion at home may be considered for patients who have received several months of treatment in the 
clinic and who are tolerating their infusions well. Home infusions should be performed under the 
surveillance of a physician or other healthcare professional.
Special populations
Elderly patients
There is no clinical experience in patients over 65 years of age.
2
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment
There is no clinical experience in patients with renal or hepatic insufficiency. (see section 5.2).
Paediatric population
The dose for children and adolescents is the same as for adults, 0.5 mg/kg body weight weekly.
Method of administration
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6.
4.3 Contraindications
Severe or life-threatening hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in 
section 6.1 if hypersensitivity is not controllable.
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Infusion-related reactions
Patients treated with idursulfase may develop infusion-related reactions (see section 4.8). During 
clinical trials, the most common infusion-related reactions included cutaneous reactions (rash, pruritus, 
urticaria), pyrexia, headache, hypertension, and flushing. Infusion-related reactions were treated or 
ameliorated by slowing the infusion rate, interrupting the infusion, or by administration of medicinal 
products, such as antihistamines, antipyretics, low-dose corticosteroids (prednisone and 
methylprednisolone), or beta-agonist nebulisation. No patient discontinued treatment due to an 
infusion reaction during clinical studies.
Special care should be taken when administering an infusion in patients with severe underlying airway 
disease. These patients should be closely monitored and infused in an appropriate clinical setting. 
Caution must be exercised in the management and treatment of such patients by limitation or careful 
monitoring of antihistamine and other sedative medicinal product use. Institution of positive-airway 
pressure may be necessary in some cases.
Delaying the infusion in patients who present with an acute febrile respiratory illness should be 
considered. Patients using supplemental oxygen should have this treatment readily available during 
infusion in the event of an infusion-related reaction.
Anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions
Anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions, which have the potential to be life threatening, have been 
observed in some patients treated with idursulfase up to several years after initiating treatment. Late 
emergent symptoms and signs of anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions have been observed as long as 
24 hours after an initial reaction. If an anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reaction occurs the infusion should 
be immediately suspended and appropriate treatment and observation initiated. The current medical 
standards for emergency treatment are to be observed. Patients experiencing severe or refractory 
anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions may require prolonged clinical monitoring. Patients who have 
experienced anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions should be treated with caution when re-
administering idursulfase, appropriately trained personnel and equipment for emergency resuscitation 
(including epinephrine) should be available during infusions. Severe or potentially life-threatening 
hypersensitivity is a contraindication to rechallenge, if hypersensitivity is not controllable (see 
section 4.3). 
Patients with the complete deletion/large rearrangement genotype
Paediatric patients with the complete deletion/large rearrangement genotype have a high probability of 
developing antibodies, including neutralizing antibodies, in response to exposure to idursulfase. 
Patients with this genotype have a higher probability of developing infusion-related adverse events 
and tend to show a muted response as assessed by decrease in urinary output of glycosaminoglycans, 
liver size and spleen volume compared to patients with the missense genotype. Management of 
patients must be decided on an individual basis (see section 4.8).
3
Sodium
This medicinal product contains 0.482 mmol sodium (or 11.1 mg) per vial. This is equivalent to 0.6%
of the WHO recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult.
Traceability
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and batch number of 
the administered product should be clearly recorded.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
No formal medicinal product interaction studies have been conducted with idursulfase.
Based on its metabolism in cellular lysosomes, idursulfase would not be a candidate for cytochrome 
P450 mediated interactions.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There are no data or limited amount of data from the use of idursulfase in pregnant women. Animal 
studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity (see 
section 5.3). As a precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid the use of idursulfase during 
pregnancy.
Breast-feeding
It is not known whether idursulfase is excreted in human breast milk. Available data in animals have 
shown excretion of idursulfase in milk (see section 5.3). A risk to the newborns/infants cannot be 
excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain 
from idursulfase therapy taking into account the benefit of breast feeding for the child and the benefit 
of therapy for the woman.
Fertility
No effects on male fertility were seen in reproductive studies in male rats.
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Idursulfase has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines.
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
Adverse reactions that were reported for the 32 patients treated with 0.5 mg/kg idursulfase weekly in 
the TKT024 phase II/III 52-week placebo-controlled study were almost all mild to moderate in 
severity. The most common were infusion-related reactions, 202 of which were reported in 22 out of 
32 patients following administration of a total of 1580 infusions. In the placebo treatment group 
128 infusion-related reactions were reported in 21 out of 32 patients following administration of a total 
of 1612 infusions. Since more than one infusion-related reaction may have occurred during any single 
infusion, the above numbers are likely to overestimate the true incidence of infusion reactions. Related 
reactions in the placebo group were similar in nature and severity to those in the treated group. The 
most common of these infusion-related reactions included cutaneous reactions (rash, pruritus, 
urticaria, and erythema), pyrexia, flushing, wheezing, dyspnoea, headache, vomiting, abdominal pain, 
nausea, and chest pain. The frequency of infusion-related reactions decreased over time with 
continued treatment.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Adverse reactions are listed in table 1 with information presented by system organ class and 
frequency. Frequency is given as very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10) or uncommon 
(≥1/1,000 to <1/100). The occurrence of an adverse reaction in a single patient is defined as common 
4
in view of the number of patients treated. Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are 
presented in order of decreasing seriousness. Adverse reactions only reported during the post 
marketing period are also included in the table with a frequency “not known” (cannot be estimated 
from the available data).
Table 1: Adverse reactions from clinical trials and post-marketing experience in patients treated 
with Elaprase.
System organ 
class
Adverse reaction (preferred term)
Very common
Common
Uncommon
Not known
Immune system disorders
Anaphylactoid/
anaphylactic 
reaction
Nervous system disorders
Headache
Dizziness, tremor
Cardiac disorders
Vascular disorders
Flushing
Cyanosis, 
arrhythmia, 
tachycardia
Hypertension, 
Hypotension
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders
Wheezing, 
dyspnoea
Hypoxia, 
bronchospasm, 
cough
Tachypnoea
Gastrointestinal disorders
Abdominal pain, 
nausea, diarrhoea, 
vomiting
Swollen tongue, 
dyspepsia
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders
Urticaria, rash, 
pruritus, erythema
Musculoskeletal and connective disorders
Arthralgia
General disorders and administration site conditions
Pyrexia, chest 
pain
Infusion-site 
swelling, face 
oedema, oedema 
peripheral
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications
Infusion-related 
reaction
Description of selected adverse reactions
Across clinical studies, serious adverse reactions were reported in a total of 5 patients who received 
0.5 mg/kg weekly or every other week. Four patients experienced a hypoxic episode during one or 
several infusions, which necessitated oxygen therapy in 3 patients with severe underlying obstructive 
airway disease (2 with a pre-existing tracheostomy). The most severe episode occurred in a patient 
with a febrile respiratory illness and was associated with hypoxia during the infusion, resulting in a
short seizure. In the fourth patient, who had less severe underlying disease, spontaneous resolution 
occurred shortly after the infusion was interrupted. These events did not recur with subsequent 
infusions using a slower infusion rate and administration of pre-infusion medicinal products, usually 
low-dose steroids, antihistamine, and beta-agonist nebulisation. The fifth patient, who had pre-existing 
5
cardiopathy, was diagnosed with ventricular premature complexes and pulmonary embolism during 
the study.
There have been post-marketing reports of anaphylactoid/anaphylactic reactions (see section 4.4).
Patients with complete deletion/large rearrangement genotype have a higher probability of developing 
infusion related adverse events (see section 4.4).
Immunogenicity
Across 4 clinical studies (TKT008, TKT018, TKT024 and TKT024EXT), 53/107 patients (50%) 
developed anti-idursulfase IgG antibodies at some point. The overall neutralizing antibody rate was 
26/107 patients (24%). 
In the post-hoc immunogenicity analysis of data from TKT024/024EXT studies, 51% (32/63) patients 
treated with 0.5mg/kg weekly idursulfase had at least 1 blood sample that tested positive for anti-
idursulfase antibodies, and 37 % (23/63) tested positive for antibodies on at least 3 consecutive study 
visits. Twenty-one percent (13/63) tested positive for neutralizing antibodies at least once and 13 % 
(8/63) tested positive for neutralizing antibodies on at least 3 consecutive study visits.
Clinical study HGT-ELA-038 evaluated immunogenicity in children 16 months to 7.5 years of age. 
During the 53-week study, 67.9% (19 of 28) of patients had at least one blood sample that tested 
positive for anti-idursulfase antibodies, and 57.1% (16 of 28) tested positive for antibodies on at least 
three consecutive study visits. Fifty-four percent of patients tested positive for neutralizing antibodies 
at least once and half of the patients tested positive for neutralizing antibodies on at least three 
consecutive study visits.
All patients with the complete deletion/large rearrangement genotype developed antibodies, and the 
majority of them (7/8) also tested positive for neutralizing antibodies on at least 3 consecutive 
occasions. All patients with the frameshift/splice site mutation genotype developed antibodies and 4/6 
also tested positive for neutralizing antibodies on at least 3 consecutive study visits. Antibody-negative 
patients were found exclusively in the missense mutation genotype group (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).
Paediatric population
Adverse reactions reported in the paediatric population were, in general, similar to those reported in 
adults.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
There is limited information regarding overdose with Elaprase. Evidence suggests that some patients 
may experience an anaphylactoid reaction due to overdose (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other alimentary tract and metabolism products – enzymes, ATC code: 
A16AB09.
Mechanism of action
Hunter syndrome is an X-linked disease caused by insufficient levels of the lysosomal enzyme 
iduronate-2-sulfatase. Iduronate-2-sulfatase functions to catabolize the glycosaminoglycans (GAG) 
6
dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate by cleavage of oligosaccharide-linked sulfate moieties. Due to 
the missing or defective iduronate-2-sulfatase enzyme in patients with Hunter syndrome, 
glycosaminoglycans progressively accumulate in the cells, leading to cellular engorgement, 
organomegaly, tissue destruction, and organ system dysfunction.
Idursulfase is a purified form of the lysosomal enzyme iduronate-2-sulfatase, produced in a human cell 
line providing a human glycosylation profile, which is analogous to the naturally occurring enzyme. 
Idursulfase is secreted as a 525 amino acid glycoprotein and contains 8 N-linked glycosylation sites 
that are occupied by complex, hybrid, and high-mannose type oligosaccharide chains. Idursulfase has 
a molecular weight of approximately 76 kD.
Treatment of Hunter syndrome patients with intravenous idursulfase provides exogenous enzyme for 
uptake into cellular lysosomes. Mannose-6-phosphate (M6P) residues on the oligosaccharide chains 
allow specific binding of the enzyme to the M6P receptors on the cell surface, leading to cellular 
internalization of the enzyme, targeting to intracellular lysosomes and subsequent catabolism of 
accumulated GAG.
Clinical efficacy and safety
The safety and efficacy of Elaprase has been shown in three clinical studies: two randomised, placebo-
controlled clinical studies (TKT008 and TKT024) in adults and children above the age of 5 years and 
one open-label, safety study (HGT-ELA-038) in children between the age of 16 months and 7.5 years.
A total of 108 male Hunter syndrome patients with a broad spectrum of symptoms were enrolled in the 
two randomized, placebo-controlled clinical studies, 106 continued treatment in two open-label, 
extension studies.
Study TKT024
In a 52-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical study, 96 patients between the 
ages of 5 and 31 years received Elaprase 0.5 mg/kg every week (n=32) or 0.5 mg/kg every other week 
(n=32), or placebo (n=32). The study included patients with a documented deficiency in iduronate-2-
sulfatase enzyme activity, a percent predicted FVC <80%, and a broad spectrum of disease severity.
The primary efficacy endpoint was a two-component composite score based on the sum of the ranks of 
the change from baseline to the end of the study in the distance walked during six minutes (6-minute 
walk test or 6MWT) as a measure of endurance, and % predicted forced vital capacity (FVC) as a 
measure of pulmonary function. This endpoint differed significantly from placebo for patients treated 
weekly (p=0.0049).
Additional clinical benefit analyses were performed on individual components of the primary endpoint 
composite score, absolute changes in FVC, changes in urine GAG levels, liver and spleen volumes, 
measurement of forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1), and changes in left ventricular mass 
(LVM). The results are presented in Table 2.
Table 2. Results from pivotal clinical study at 0.5 mg/kg per week (Study TKT024).
52 weeks of treatment
0.5 mg/kg weekly
Marginally weighted (OM)
mean (SE)
Idursulfase
Placebo
74.5 (4.5)
55.5 (4.5)
Mean treatment 
difference 
compared with 
placebo (SE)
19.0 (6.5)
43.3 (9.6)
4.2 (1.6)
8.2 (9.6)
-0.04 (1.6)
35.1 (13.7)
4.3 (2.3)
P-value
(compared with 
placebo)
0.0049
0.0131
0.0650
Endpoint
Composite 
(6MWT and 
%FVC)
6MWT (m)
% Predicted FVC
7
FVC absolute 
volume (L)
Urine GAG levels 
(μg GAG/mg 
creatinine)
% Change in liver 
volume
% Change in 
spleen volume
0.23 (0.04)
0.05 (0.04)
0.19 (0.06)
0.0011
-223.3 (20.7)
52.23 (20.7)
-275.5 (30.1)
<0.0001
-25.7 (1.5)
-0.5 (1.6)
-25.2 (2.2)
<0.0001
-25.5 (3.3)
7.7 (3.4)
-33.2 (4.8)
<0.0001
A total of 11 of 31 (36%) patients in the weekly treatment group versus 5 of 31 (16%) patients in the 
placebo group had an increase in FEV1 of at least 0.2 l at or before the end of the study, indicating a 
dose-related improvement in airway obstruction. The patients in the weekly treatment group 
experienced a clinically significant 15% mean improvement in FEV1 at the end of the study.
Urine GAG levels were normalized below the upper limit of normal (defined as 126.6 µg GAG/mg 
creatinine) in 50% of the patients receiving weekly treatment.
Of the 25 patients with abnormally large livers at baseline in the weekly treatment group, 80% (20 
patients) had reductions in liver volume to within the normal range by the end of the study.
Of the 9 patients in the weekly treatment group with abnormally large spleens at baseline, 3 had spleen 
volumes that normalized by the end of the study.
Approximately half of the patients in the weekly treatment group (15 of 32; 47%) had left ventricular 
hypertrophy at baseline, defined as LVM index 103 g/m2. Of these 6 (40%) had normalised LVM by 
the end of the study.
All patients received weekly idursulfase up to 3.2 years in an extension to this study (TKT024EXT).
Among patients who were originally randomised to weekly idursulfase in TKT024, mean maximum 
improvement in distance walked during six minutes occurred at Month 20 and mean percent predicted 
FVC peaked at Month 16.
Among all patients, statistically significant mean increases from treatment baseline (TKT024 baseline 
for TKT024 idursulfase patients and Week 53 baseline for TKT024 placebo patients) were seen in the 
distance walked 6MWT at the majority of time points tested, with significant mean and percent 
increases ranging from 13.7m to 41.5m (maximum at Month 20) and from 6.4% to 13.3% (maximum 
at Month 24) respectively. At most time points tested, patients who were from the original TKT024 
weekly treatment group improved their walking distance to a greater extent that patients in the other 2 
treatment groups.
Among all patients, mean % predicted FVC was significantly increased at Month 16, although by 
Month 36, it was similar to the baseline. Patients with the most severe pulmonary impairment at 
baseline (as measured by % predicted FVC) tended to show the least improvement.
Statistically significant increases from treatment baseline in absolute FVC volume were seen at most 
visits for all treatment groups combined and for each of the prior TKT024 treatment groups. Mean 
changes from 0.07 l to 0.31 l and percent ranged from 6.3% to 25.5% (maximum at Month 30). The 
mean and percent changes from treatment baseline were greatest in the group of patients from the 
TKT024 study who had received the weekly dosing, across all time points.
At their final visit 21/31 patients in the TKT024 Weekly group, 24/32 in the TKT024 EOW group and 
18/31 patients in the TKT024 placebo group had final normalised urine GAG levels that were below 
the upper limit of normal. Changes in urinary GAG levels were the earliest signs of clinical 
improvement with idursulfase treatment and the greatest decreases in urinary GAG were seen within 
the first 4 months of treatment in all treatment groups; changes from Month 4 to 36 were small. The 
8
higher the urinary GAG levels at baseline, the greater the magnitude of decreases in urinary GAG with 
idursulfase treatment.
The decreases in liver and spleen volumes observed at the end of study TKT024 (week 53) were 
maintained during the extension study (TKT024EXT) in all patients regardless of the prior treatment 
they had been assigned. Liver volume normalised by Month 24 for 73% (52 out of 71) of patients with 
hepatomegaly at baseline. In addition, mean liver volume decreased to a near maximum extent by 
Month 8 in all patients previously treated, with a slight increase observed at Month 36. The decreases 
in mean liver volume were seen regardless of age, disease severity, IgG antibody status or neutralising 
antibody status. Spleen volume normalised by Months 12 and 24 for 9.7% of patients in the TKT024 
Weekly group with splenomegaly.
Mean cardiac LVMI remained stable over 36 months of idursulfase treatment within each TKT024 
treatment group.
In a post-hoc analysis of immunogenicity in studies TKT024 and TKT024EXT (see section 4.8), 
patients were shown to have either the mis-sense mutation or the frameshift / nonsense mutation. After 
105 weeks of exposure to idursulfase, neither antibody status nor genotype affected reductions in liver 
and spleen size or distance walked in the 6-minute walk test or forced vital capacity measurements. 
Patients who tested antibody-positive displayed less reduction in urinary output of 
glycosaminoglycans than antibody-negative patients. The longer-term effects of antibody development 
on clinical outcomes have not been established.
Study HGT-ELA-038
This was an open-label, multicenter, single-arm study of idursulfase infusions in male Hunter 
syndrome patients between the age of 16 months and 7.5 years.
Idursulfase treatment resulted in up to 60% reduction in urine output of glycosaminoglycans and in 
reductions of liver and spleen size: results were comparable to those found in study TKT024. 
Reductions were evident by week 18 and were maintained to week 53. Patients who developed a high 
titre of antibodies displayed less response to idursulfase as assessed by urine output of 
glycosaminoglycans and by liver and spleen size.
Analyses of genotypes of patients in study HGT-ELA-038
Patients were classified into the following groups: missense (13), complete deletion/large 
rearrangement (8), and frameshift/ splice site mutations (5). One patient was unclassified / 
unclassifiable.
The complete deletion/ large rearrangement genotype was most commonly associated with 
development of high titre of antibodies and neutralising antibodies to idursulfase and was most likely 
to display a muted response to the medicinal product. It was not possible, however, to accurately 
predict individual clinical outcome based on antibody response or genotype.
No clinical data exist demonstrating a benefit on the neurological manifestations of the disorder.
This medicinal product has been authorised under “exceptional circumstances”.
This means that due to the rarity of the disease it has not been possible to obtain complete information 
on this medicinal product.
The European Medicines Agency will review any new information which may become available every 
year and this SmPC will be updated as necessary.
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
Idursulfase is taken up by selective receptor-mediated mechanisms involving binding to mannose 6-
phosphate receptors. Upon internalization by cells, it is localized within cellular lysosomes, thereby 
limiting distribution of the protein. Degradation of idursulfase is achieved by generally well 
9
understood protein hydrolysis mechanisms to produce small peptides and amino acids, consequently 
renal and liver function impairment is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of idursulfase.
Pharmacokinetic parameters measured during the first infusion at week 1 of studies TKT024 (0.5 
mg/kg weekly arm) and HGT-ELA-038 are displayed in table 3 and table 4 below as a function of age 
and body weight, respectively.
Table 3. Pharmacokinetic parameters at week 1 as a function of age in Studies TKT024 and
HGT-ELA-038
Study
HGT-ELA-038
1.4 to 7.5
(n=27)
1.3 ± 0.8
5 to 11
(n=11)
1.6 ± 0.7
TKT024
12 to 18
(n=8)
1.4 ± 0.3
> 18
(n=9)
1.9 ± 0.5
224.3 ± 76.9
238 ± 103.7
196 ± 40.5
262 ± 74.5
2.4 ± 0.7
2.7 ± 1.3
2.8 ± 0.7
2.2 ± 0.7
394 ± 423
217 ± 109
184 ± 38
169 ± 32
Age (years)
Cmax (μg/mL)
Mean ± SD
AUC0-∞
(min*μg/mL)
Mean ± SD
CL
(mL/min/kg)
Mean ± SD
Vss (mL/kg)
Mean ± SD
Patients in the TKT024 and HGT-ELA-038 studies were also stratified across five weight categories;
as shown in the following table:
Table 4. Pharmacokinetic parameters at week 1 as a function of body weight in studies TKT024 
and HGT-ELA-038
Weight (kg)
Cmax (μg/mL) 
Mean ± SD
AUC0-∞
(min*μg/mL)
CL
(mL/min/kg)
Mean ± SD
Vss
(mL/kg)
<20
(n=17)
1.2 ± 0.3
≥ 20 and < 30
(n=18)
1.5 ± 1.0
≥ 30 and < 40
(n=9)
1.7 ± 0.4
≥ 40 and < 50 
(n=5)
1.7 ± 0.7
≥ 50
(n=6)
1.7 ± 0.7
206.2 ± 33.9
234.3 ± 103.0
231.1 ± 681.0
260.2 ± 113.8
251.3 ± 86.2
2.5 ± 0.5
2.6 ± 1.1
2.4 ± 0.6
2.4 ± 1.0
2.4 ± 1.1
321 ± 105
397 ± 528
171 ± 52
160 ± 59
181 ± 34
A higher volume of distribution at steady state (Vss) was observed in the lowest weight groups.
Overall, there was no apparent trend in either systemic exposure or clearance rate of idursulfase with 
respect to either age or body weight.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Nonclinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, single dose toxicity, repeated dose toxicity, toxicity to reproduction and development 
and to male fertility.
Animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, embryonal/ 
foetal development, parturition or postnatal development.
Animal studies have shown excretion of idursulfase in breast milk.
10
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Polysorbate 20
Sodium chloride
Dibasic sodium phosphate heptahydrate
Monobasic sodium phosphate monohydrate
Water for injections
6.2
Incompatibilities
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6.
6.3
Shelf life
3 years.
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 8 hours at 25°C.
After dilution
From a microbiological safety point of view, the diluted product should be used immediately. If not 
used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user 
and should not be longer than 24 hours at 2 to 8°C.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Store in a refrigerator (2C – 8C).
Do not freeze.
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
5 ml vial (type I glass) with a stopper (fluoro-resin coated butyl rubber), one piece seal and blue flip-
off cap. Each vial contains 3 ml of concentrate for solution for infusion.
Pack sizes of 1, 4 and 10 vials. Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Each vial of Elaprase is intended for single use only and contains 6 mg of idursulfase in 3 ml of 
solution. Elaprase is for intravenous infusion and must be diluted in sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) 
solution for infusion prior to use. It is recommended to deliver the total volume of infusion using a 0.2 
µm in line filter. Elaprase should not be infused with other medicinal products in the infusion tubing.
-
-
-
-
The number of vials to be diluted should be determined based on the individual patient’s weight 
and the recommended dose of 0.5 mg/kg.
The solution in the vials should not be used if it is discoloured or if particulate matter is present. 
The solution should not be shaken.
The calculated volume of Elaprase should be withdrawn from the appropriate number of vials.
The total volume required of Elaprase should be diluted in 100 ml of 9 mg/ml (0.9%) sodium 
chloride solution for infusion. Care must be taken to ensure the sterility of the prepared 
solutions since Elaprase does not contain any preservative or bacteriostatic agent; aseptic 
technique must be observed. Once diluted, the solution should be mixed gently, but not shaken.
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
11
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Takeda Pharmaceuticals International AG Ireland Branch
Block 2 Miesian Plaza 
50-58 Baggot Street Lower 
Dublin 2
D02 HW68
Ireland
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/06/365/001-003
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 08 January 2007
Date of latest renewal: 09 September 2016
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
12
ANNEX II
A.
B.
C.
D.
E.
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-
AUTHORISATION MEASURES FOR THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL 
CIRCUMSTANCES
13
A. MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance
Shire (TK3)
205 Alewife Brook Parkway
Cambridge, MA 02138
USA
Shire
300 Shire Way
Lexington MA 02421
USA
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release
Takeda Pharmaceuticals International AG Ireland Branch
Block 2 Miesian Plaza
50-58 Baggot Street Lower
Dublin 2
D02 HW68
Ireland
Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited
Block 2 & 3 Miesian Plaza
50 – 58 Baggot Street Lower
Dublin 2
Ireland
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch.
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, 4.2).
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION

Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 

Risk management plan (RMP)
14
The marketing authorization holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:


At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
E.
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL 
CIRCUMSTANCES
This being an approval under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to Article 14(8) of Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004, the MAH shall conduct, within the stated timeframe, the following measures:
Description
Specific Obligation 1 – Hunter Outcome Survey (HOS): available data and 
updates will be provided within Annual Reassessments.
Specific Obligation 5 – To evaluate the following long term clinical endpoints 
primarily through the HOS. These data will be re-evaluated annually and 
outcomes reported and discussed within the Annual Reassessments.
Due date
31 March 
every year
31 March 
every year
-
-
-
-
Assessment of long term pulmonary morbidity (e.g., incidence of 
infections, pulmonary function status) and mortality
Assessment of long term cardiovascular morbidity (e.g., incidence of
events, and echocardiography data, where available) and mortality
Assessment of long term urinary GAG excretion patterns
Assessment of long term antibody levels, isotype and correlation to other 
therapeutic parameters
15
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
16
A. LABELLING
17
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Elaprase 2 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion
idursulfase 
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each vial contains 6 mg of idursulfase. Each ml contains 2 mg of idursulfase
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Polysorbate 20
Sodium chloride 
Dibasic sodium phosphate heptahydrate
Monobasic sodium phosphate monohydrate
Water for injections
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Concentrate for solution for infusion
3 ml 
4 x 3 ml
10 x 3 ml
6 mg/3 ml
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
For single use only
Read the package leaflet before use
Intravenous use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP 
18
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator 
Do not freeze
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Takeda Pharmaceuticals International AG Ireland Branch
Block 2 Miesian Plaza 
50-58 Baggot Street Lower 
Dublin 2
D02 HW68
Ireland
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/06/365/001
EU/1/06/365/002
EU/1/06/365/003
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot 
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted 
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
19
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
VIAL 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Elaprase 2 mg/ml sterile concentrate
idursulfase
IV
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP 
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot 
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
6 mg/3 ml
6.
OTHER
Store in a refrigerator 
Do not freeze
20
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
21
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Elaprase 2 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion
idursulfase
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects.
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet: 
1. What Elaprase is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you use Elaprase
3. How to use Elaprase
4.
Possible side effects
5. How to store Elaprase 
6. Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Elaprase is and what it is used for
Elaprase is used as enzyme replacement therapy to treat children and adults with Hunter syndrome 
(Mucopolysaccharidosis II) when the level of the enzyme iduronate-2-sulfatase in the body is lower 
than normal, helping improve the symptoms of the disease. If you suffer from Hunter syndrome, a 
carbohydrate called glycosaminoglycan which is normally broken down by your body, is not broken 
down and slowly accumulates in various organs in your body. This causes cells to function 
abnormally, thereby causing problems for various organs in your body which can lead to tissue 
destruction and organ malfunction and failure. Typical organs where glycosaminoglycan accumulates 
are spleen, liver, lungs, heart, and connective tissue. In some patients glycosaminoglycan accumulates 
also in the brain. Elaprase contains an active substance called idursulfase which works by acting as a
replacement for the enzyme that is at a low level, thereby breaking down this carbohydrate in affected 
cells.
Enzyme replacement therapy is usually administered as a long-term treatment.
2. What you need to know before you use Elaprase
Do not use Elaprase
If you have experienced severe or potentially life-threatening allergic-type reactions to idursulfase or 
any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6) and these cannot be controlled with 
appropriate medical treatment.
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or nurse before using this medicine.
22
If you are treated with Elaprase you may experience side effects during or following an infusion (see 
section 4 Possible side effects). The most common symptoms are itching, rash, hives, fever, headache, 
increased blood pressure, and flushing (redness). Most of the time you can still be given this medicine 
even if these symptoms occur. If you experience an allergic side effect following administration of this 
medicine, you should contact your doctor immediately. You may be given additional medicines such 
as antihistamines and corticosteroids to treat or help prevent allergic-type reactions.
If severe allergic reactions occur, your doctor will stop the infusion immediately, and start giving you 
suitable treatment. You may need to stay in hospital.
The nature of your genotype (a genetic make up of all active genes in human cells, which determines 
one’s specific, individual characteristics) may influence your therapeutic response to this medicine, as 
well as your risk of developing antibodies and infusion-related side effects. In individual cases, so-
called ‘neutralising antibodies’ may develop, which may diminish activity of Elaprase and your
response to treatment. The longer term effects of antibody development on response to treatment have 
not been established. Please consult your doctor for additional information.
Keeping a record
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and batch number of 
the administered product should be clearly recorded by your healthcare professional. Speak with your 
healthcare professional if you are not sure.
Other medicines and Elaprase
There is no known interaction of this medicine with other medicines.
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine.
Driving and using machines
This medicine has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines.
Elaprase contains sodium
This medicine contains 11.1 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each vial. This is 
equivalent to 0.6% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult.
3.
How to use Elaprase
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure.
This medicine will be given to you under the supervision of a doctor or nurse who is knowledgeable in 
the treatment of Hunter syndrome or other inherited metabolic disorders.
The recommended dose is an infusion of 0.5 mg (half a milligram) for every kg you weigh
23
Elaprase has to be diluted in sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for infusion before use. After 
dilution this medicine is given through a vein (drip feed). The infusion will normally last for 1 to 
3 hours and will be given every week.
Use in children and adolescents
The recommended dosage in children and adolescents is the same as in adults.
If you use more Elaprase than you should
Consult your doctor if you have an overdose of this medication.
If you forget to use Elaprase
If you have missed an Elaprase infusion, please contact your doctor.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Most side effects are mild to moderate and associated with the infusion, however some side effects 
may be serious. Over time the number of these infusion-associated reactions decreases.
If you have problems breathing, with or without bluish skin, tell your doctor straight away and 
seek immediate medical assistance.
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are:








Headache
Flushing (redness)
Shortness of breath, wheezing
Abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, frequent and/or loose stools
Chest pain
Hives, rash, itching, redness of the skin
Fever
Infusion-related reaction (see section entitled “Warnings and precautions”)
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are:







Dizziness, tremor
Rapid heartbeat, irregular heartbeat, bluish skin
Increased blood pressure, decreased blood pressure
Difficulty breathing, cough, low oxygen levels in your blood
Swollen tongue, indigestion
Pain in the joints
Infusion-site swelling, swelling of the extremities, facial swelling
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) are:

Quickened breathing
Side effects for which frequency is not known (cannot be estimated from available data) are:

Serious allergic reactions
24
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.
5.
How to store Elaprase 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Store in a refrigerator (2C – 8C)
Do not freeze
Do not use this medicine if you notice that there is discolouration or presence of foreign particles.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Elaprase contains
The active substance is idursulfase, which is a form of the human enzyme iduronate-2-sulfatase. 
Idursulfase is produced in a human cell line by genetic engineering technology (it involves the 
introduction of genetic information into human cells in the lab, which will then produce the desired 
product).
Each vial of Elaprase contains 6 mg of idursulfase. Each ml contains 2 mg of idursulfase.
The other ingredients are Polysorbate 20, sodium chloride, dibasic sodium phosphate, heptahydrate, 
monobasic sodium phosphate, monohydrate and water for injections.
What Elaprase looks like and contents of the pack
This medicine is a concentrate for solution for infusion. It is supplied in a glass vial as a clear to 
slightly opalescent, colourless solution.
Each vial contains 3 ml of concentrate for solution for infusion.
Elaprase is supplied in pack sizes of 1, 4 and 10 vials per carton. Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals International AG Ireland Branch
Block 2 Miesian Plaza 
50-58 Baggot Street Lower 
Dublin 2
D02 HW68
Ireland
25
Manufacturer
Takeda Pharmaceuticals International AG Ireland Branch
Block 2 Miesian Plaza
50-58 Baggot Street Lower
Dublin 2
D02 HW68
Ireland
Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited
Block 2 & 3 Miesian Plaza
50 – 58 Baggot Street Lower
Dublin 2
Ireland
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Takeda Belgium NV
Tél/Tel: +32 2 464 06 11 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
България
Такеда България ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 958 27 36
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Lietuva
Takeda, UAB
Tel: +370 521 09 070
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Takeda Belgium NV
Tél/Tel: +32 2 464 06 11
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Česká republika
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Czech Republic s.r.o.
Tel: +420 234 722 722
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Magyarország
Takeda Pharma Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 270 7030
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Danmark
Takeda Pharma A/S
Tlf: +45 46 77 10 10
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Deutschland
Takeda GmbH
Tel: +49 (0)800 825 3325
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Eesti
Takeda Pharma AS
Tel: +372 6177 669
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Ελλάδα
Τakeda ΕΛΛΑΣ Α.Ε.
Tηλ: +30 210 6387800
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
España
Takeda Farmacéutica España S.A.
Tel: +34 917 90 42 22
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Malta
Τakeda HELLAS S.A.
Tel: +30 210 6387800
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Nederland
Takeda Nederland B.V.
Tel: +31 20 203 5492
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Norge
Takeda AS
Tlf: +47 800 800 30
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Österreich
Takeda Pharma Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0) 800-20 80 50 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Polska
Takeda Pharma Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48223062447
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
26
France
Takeda France SAS
Tél: + 33 1 40 67 33 00
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Portugal
Takeda Farmacêuticos Portugal, Lda.
Tel: + 351 21 120 1457
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Hrvatska
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Croatia d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 377 88 96
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
România
Takeda Pharmaceuticals SRL
Tel: +40 21 335 03 91
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Ireland
Takeda Products Ireland Ltd
Tel: 1800 937 970
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Italia
Takeda Italia S.p.A.
Tel: +39 06 502601
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Κύπρος
Τakeda ΕΛΛΑΣ Α.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 210 6387800
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Latvija
Takeda Latvia SIA
Tel: +371 67840082
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
This leaflet was last revised in .
Slovenija
Takeda Pharmaceuticals farmacevtska družba d.o.o.
Tel: + 386 (0) 59 082 480
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Slovenská republika
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o.
Tel: +421 (2) 20 602 600
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Suomi/Finland
Takeda Oy
Puh/Tel: 0800 774 051
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
Sverige
Takeda Pharma AB
Tel: 020 795 079
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Takeda UK Ltd
Tel: +44 (0) 2830 640 902
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com
This medicine has been authorised under “exceptional circumstances”. This means that because of the 
rarity of this disease it has been impossible to get complete information on this medicine.
The European Medicines Agency will review any new information on the medicine every year and this 
leaflet will be updated as necessary.
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments.
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website.
27
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only:
Instructions for use, handling and disposal
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
Calculate the total dose to be administered and number of Elaprase vials needed.
Dilute the total volume of Elaprase concentrate for solution for infusion required in 100 ml of 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for infusion . It is recommended to deliver the total 
volume of the infusion using a 0.2 µm in line filter. Care must be taken to ensure the sterility of 
the prepared solutions since Elaprase does not contain any preservative or bacteriostatic agent; 
aseptic technique must be observed. Once diluted, the solution should be mixed gently, but not 
shaken.
The solution should be inspected visually for particulate matter and discolouration prior to 
administration. Do not shake.
It is recommended that administration is started as soon as possible. The chemical and physical 
stability of the diluted solution has been demonstrated for 8 hours at 25°C.
Do not infuse Elaprase concomitantly in the same intravenous line with other medicinal 
products.
For single use only. Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance 
with local requirements.
28
