EMA/529536/2016  
EMEA/H/C/000700 
EPAR summary for the public 
Elaprase 
idursulfase 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Elaprase. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Elaprase. 
What is Elaprase? 
Elaprase is a medicine that contains the active substance idursulfase. It is available as a concentrate 
that is made up into a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein. 
What is Elaprase used for? 
Elaprase is used to treat patients with Hunter syndrome. It is designed for long-term use. 
Hunter syndrome, which is also known as mucopolysaccharidosis II, is a rare, inherited disease that 
primarily affects male patients. Patients with Hunter syndrome do not produce an enzyme called 
iduronate-2-sulfatase. This enzyme is needed to break down substances in the body called 
glycosaminoglycans (GAGs). Since patients with Hunter syndrome cannot break these substances 
down, the GAGs gradually build up in most of the organs in the body and damage them. This causes a 
wide range of symptoms, particularly difficulty breathing and difficulty walking. Without treatment, 
these symptoms become more severe over time. 
Because the number of patients with Hunter syndrome is low, the disease is considered ‘rare’, and 
Elaprase was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 11 December 
2001. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Elaprase used? 
Elaprase treatment should be supervised by a doctor or other healthcare professional who has 
experience in the management of patients with Hunter syndrome or other inherited diseases affecting 
the metabolism. 
Elaprase is given every week, as an infusion into a vein, at a dose of 0.5 mg per kilogram body weight. 
The infusion should last three hours. However, as long as the patient does not develop infusion 
reactions (rash, itching, fever, headache, high blood pressure or flushing), the duration of the infusion 
can be gradually reduced to one hour. 
Patients who tolerate the infusions well for several months in a clinic may be able to start having them 
at home. Home infusions should be supervised by a doctor or nurse. 
How does Elaprase work? 
The active substance in Elaprase, idursulfase, is a copy of the human enzyme iduronate-2-sulfatase. It 
replaces the enzyme that is missing or defective in patients with Hunter syndrome. Supplying the 
enzyme will help to break down GAGs and stop them building up in body tissue, thereby helping to 
improve the symptoms of the disease. 
How has Elaprase been studied? 
The main study of Elaprase involved 96 male patients aged between 5 and 31 years, and compared it 
with placebo (a dummy treatment). The main measures of effectiveness were lung function (‘forced 
vital capacity’, the maximum amount of air the patient could breathe out), and the distance the 
patients could walk in six minutes, which measures the combined effects of the illness on the heart, 
lungs, joints and other organs. These measurements were taken at the start of the study and after a 
year of treatment. 
What benefit has Elaprase shown during the studies? 
Elaprase improved lung function and the walking ability of the patients. At the start of the study, the 
patients could walk an average of around 395 metres in six minutes. After a year, the patients 
receiving Elaprase could walk a further 43 metres on average, and the patients receiving placebo could 
walk a further 8 metres. The medicine also produced an improvement in lung function, while the 
patients on placebo showed a slight worsening. 
What is the risk associated with Elaprase? 
The most common side effects with Elaprase are related to the infusion, including skin reactions (rash 
or itching), fever, headache, high blood pressure and flushing. Other side effects seen in more than 1 
patient in 10 are wheezing, dyspnoea (difficulty breathing), abdominal pain (stomach ache), nausea 
(feeling sick), dyspepsia (heartburn), diarrhoea, vomiting, swelling at the site of infusion and chest 
pain. Severe allergic reactions have occurred in some patients taking Elaprase. For the full list of all 
side effects reported with Elaprase, see the package leaflet. 
Elaprase must not be used in people who have had a severe or life-threatening allergic (anaphylactic) 
reaction to idursulfase or any of the other ingredients if their allergy is not controllable. If given to 
patients who have had severe allergic reactions in the past, Elaprase should be used with caution, and 
trained staff and equipment for emergency resuscitation should be available during infusion.  
Elaprase  
EMA/529536/2016 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
Why has Elaprase been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that the improvements shown in the study, even if limited, represent a clinical 
benefit in the treatment of Hunter syndrome. The Committee decided that Elaprase’s benefits are 
greater than its risks and recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
Elaprase has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This means that because Hunter 
syndrome is rare, it has not been possible to obtain complete information about Elaprase. Every year, 
the European Medicines Agency will review any new information that may become available and this 
summary will be updated as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Elaprase? 
The company that markets Elaprase will investigate the long-term effects of the medicine, particularly 
on the lungs, the heart and the blood vessels, and whether the body produces antibodies that could 
affect the medicine’s safety and effectiveness. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Elaprase? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Elaprase have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Elaprase 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Elaprase on 8 January 2007.  
The full EPAR for Elaprase can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Elaprase, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Elaprase can be found 
on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation. 
This summary was last updated in 09-2016. 
Elaprase  
EMA/529536/2016 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
