                                       CONFIDENTIAL 
Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan    
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for PRX-102. The RMP details important 
risks of PRX-102, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about  PRX-102  's  risks  and  uncertainties  (missing  information).  PRX-102  summary  of  product 
characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals 
and patients on how PRX-102 should be used. This summary of the RMP for PRX-102 should be 
read in the context of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its 
plain-language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the  European  Public  Assessment  Report  (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of PRX-102 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
PRX-102 is an alpha- galactosidase A (α-Gal A) enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) indicated for 
the treatment of adults with a confirmed diagnosis of Fabry disease. PRX-102 is indicated for long-
term enzyme replacement therapy in adult patients with a confirmed diagnosis of Fabry disease 
(deficiency of alpha-galactosidase). where the level of α-galactosidase enzyme activity is absent or 
lower 
than  normal.  In  subject  suffering  from  Fabry  disease  a  fat  substance,  called 
globotriaosylceramide (GL-3), is not removed from the cells of the body and starts to accumulate 
in the walls of the blood vessels. PRX-102 is indicated for use as long-term enzyme replacement 
therapy  in patients  with a confirmed diagnosis of Fabry  disease (α-galactosidase A deficiency). 
PRX-102 is indicated in adults, it contains Pegunigalsidase alfa as its active substance and is given 
by infusion.  
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the 
risks  
Important risks of PRX-102, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about PRX-102 risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for PRX-102 will be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  the  case  of  PRX-102,  these  measures  are  supplemented  with  additional  risk  minimisation 
measures (HCP brochure and patient/caregiver/HCP guide) mentioned in section V.2 as well as 
under relevant important risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions will be collected continuously 
and regularly analysed (including PSUR assessment and signal detection) so that immediate action 
can  be  taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine  pharmacovigilance  activities.  If 
Active substance: Pegunigalsidase Alfa 
Version: 0.4 
Page 36/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                       CONFIDENTIAL 
important information that may affect the safe use of PRX-102 is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  PRX-102  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important 
risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are  concerns  for  which  there  is 
sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  PRX-102.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information 
on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on 
the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing Informations 
•  Hypersensitivity Reactions (infusion related) 
•  Medication errors in the home infusion setting 
•  None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Hypersensitivity Reactions (infusion related) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Clinical trials included in the development programme  
Patients undergoing IV infusion and/or subjects that had 
previous ERTs (Fabrazyme or Replagal). 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.4. 
•  PL section 2 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  HCP brochure  
•  Patient/caregiver/HCP guide 
Important potential risk: Medication errors in the home infusion setting 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Clinical trials included in the development programme  
Risk factors and risk groups 
•  Patients  receiving  PRX-102  infusions  in  the  home 
setting by an HCP 
Active substance: Pegunigalsidase Alfa 
Version: 0.4 
Page 37/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                       CONFIDENTIAL 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.2 
•  SmPC section 6  
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
•  HCP brochure  
•  Patient/caregiver/HCP guide 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation for 
PRX-102   
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required in the post-authorization plan for PRX-102. 
Active substance: Pegunigalsidase Alfa 
Version: 0.4 
Page 38/47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
