ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Elfabrio 2 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each vial contains 20 mg of pegunigalsidase alfa in a volume of 10 mL at a concentration of 2 mg/mL. 
The strength indicates the quantity of the pegunigalsidase alfa with consideration of the pegylation. 
Pegunigalsidase alfa is produced in tobacco cells (Nicotiana tabacum BY2 cells) using recombinant 
DNA technology. 
The active substance, pegunigalsidase alfa, is a covalent conjugate of prh-alpha-GAL-A with 
polyethylene glycol (PEG).  
The potency of this medicinal product should not be compared to the one of another pegylated or non-
pegylated protein of the same therapeutic class. For more information, see section 5.1. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each vial contains 48 mg sodium. 
For a full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
Clear, colourless, solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Elfabrio is indicated for long-term enzyme replacement therapy in adult patients with a confirmed 
diagnosis of Fabry disease (deficiency of alpha-galactosidase). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Elfabrio treatment must be managed by a physician experienced in the treatment of patients with 
Fabry disease. 
Appropriate medical support measures should be readily available when Elfabrio is administered to 
patients who have not had treatment before, or who have experienced severe hypersensitivity reactions 
to Elfabrio in the past. 
Pre-treatment with antihistamines and/or corticosteroids may be advisable for patients who had 
previously experienced hypersensitivity reactions to Elfabrio or to another enzyme replacement 
therapies (ERT) treatment (see section 4.4). 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posology 
The recommended dose of pegunigalsidase alfa is 1 mg/kg of body weight administered once every 
two weeks. 
For instructions on reconstitution, see section 6.6. 
Patients switching treatment from agalsidase alfa or beta 
For the initial 3 months (6 infusions) of treatment with Elfabrio, pre-treatment regimen should be 
preserved with stepwise discontinuation of pre-treatment based on appropriate tolerability of the 
patients. 
Special populations 
Renal or hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is needed in patients with renal or hepatic impairment. 
Elderly (≥ 65 years old) 
Safety and efficacy of Elfabrio in patients older than 65 years have not been evaluated and no 
alternative dose regimens can be recommended for these patients. Elderly patients may be treated with 
the same dose as other adult patients, see section 5.1. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Elfabrio in children and adolescents aged 0-17 years have not yet been 
established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
For intravenous infusion use only. 
Elfabrio must not be infused in the same intravenous line with other products. 
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
After preparation, the dilution should be administered via intravenous infusion and filtered through an 
in-line low protein-binding 0.2 μm filter. 
The patient should be observed for infusion-related reactions (IRRs) for two hours after the infusion; 
see section 4.4. 
Further details on how to handle Elfabrio before administration, see section 6.6. 
Home administration 
Infusion of Elfabrio at home may be considered if the patient is tolerating his infusions well and have 
no history of moderate or severe IRRs for a few months. 
The decision to move to home infusion should be made after evaluation and recommendation by the 
treating physician. The patient should be medically stable. Home infusion infrastructure, resources, 
and procedures, including training, must be established and available to the healthcare professional in 
charge of home infusion.  
The healthcare professional should be available at all times during the home infusion and for a 
specified time after infusion. 
Appropriate training should be given by the treating physician and/or nurse to the patient and/or 
caregiver prior to initiation of home infusion. The dose and infusion rate used in the home setting 
should remain the same as was used in the hospital setting; they should be changed only under the 
supervision of the treating physician. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infusion rate and duration of infusion 
Table 1: Recommended dose and infusion time for intravenous administration of Elfabrio 
150 mL  
250 mL  
500 mL 
Infusion time 
not less than 3 hours 
not less than 3 hours 
not less than 3 hours 
Initial infusion 1 mg/kg of body weight every 2 weeks 
Body weight (Kg)   Total volume (mL) 
up to 70  
70-100 
> 100  
Maintenance infusion 
The target infusion duration can be achieved pending patient’s tolerability. The increase in the 
infusion rate should be achieved gradually starting from the rate given at the first infusion. 
1 mg/kg of body weight every 2 weeks 
Body weight (Kg)  Total volume (mL) 
up to 70 
70-100  
> 100 
Infusion time 
not less than 1.5 hours  1.68 mL/min (100 mL/hr) 
not less than 1.5 hours  2.78 mL/min (166.67 mL/hr) 
not less than 1.5 hours  5.56 mL/min (333.33 mL/hr) 
Infusion rate* 
0.83 mL/min (50 mL/hr) 
1.39 mL/min (83.33 mL/hr) 
2.78 mL/min (166.67 mL/hr) 
150 mL  
250 mL  
500 mL  
Infusion rate* 
*infusion rate may be adjusted in case of infusion reaction (see section 4.4) 
If patients experience infusion-related reactions, including hypersensitivity reactions or anaphylactic 
reactions during the infusion, the infusion must be immediately stopped and appropriate medical 
treatment should be initiated (see section 4.4). 
Any patients experiencing adverse events during the home infusion need to immediately stop the 
infusion process and seek the attention of a healthcare professional. Subsequent infusions may need to 
occur in a clinical setting. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Infusion related reactions 
Infusion-related reactions (IRRs), defined as any related adverse events with onset after start of 
infusion and up to 2 hours after end of infusion have been reported (see section 4.8). The most 
commonly observed symptoms of IRRs were hypersensitivity, itching, nausea, dizziness, chills and 
muscular pain. 
The management of IRRs must be based on the severity of the reaction, and include slowing the 
infusion rate and treatment with medicinal products such as antihistamines, antipyretics and/or 
corticosteroids, for mild to moderate reactions. Pre-treatment with antihistamines and/or 
corticosteroids may prevent subsequent reactions in those cases where symptomatic treatment was 
required, although IRRs occurred in some patients after receiving pre-treatment (see section 4.2). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in patients in clinical studies (see section 4.8). As with 
any intravenous protein product, allergic-type hypersensitivity reactions may manifest and can include 
localised angioedema (including swelling of the face, mouth, and throat), bronchospasm, hypotension, 
generalised urticaria, dysphagia, rash, dyspnoea, flushing, chest discomfort, pruritus, and nasal 
congestion. If a severe allergic or anaphylactic-type reactions occur, immediate discontinuation of 
Elfabrio is recommended and current medical standards for emergency treatment are to be followed. 
In patients who have experienced severe hypersensitivity reactions during Elfabrio infusion, caution 
should be exercised upon re-challenge and appropriate medical support should be readily available. 
Moreover, for patients who experienced severe hypersensitivity reactions with ERT infusion including 
Elfabrio, appropriate medical support should be readily available. 
Immunogenicity 
In clinical studies, treatment-induced anti-drug antibodies (ADA) development has been observed (see 
section 4.8). 
The presence of ADAs to Elfabrio may be associated with a higher risk of infusion-related reactions, 
and severe IRRs are more likely to occur in ADA positive patients. Patients who develop infusion or 
immune reactions with Elfabrio treatment should be monitored. 
Additionally, patients who are ADA positive to other enzyme replacement therapies, who have 
experienced hypersensitivity reactions to Elfabrio and patients who are switching to Elfabrio should be 
monitored. 
Glomerulonephritis membranoproliferative 
Depositions of immune complexes can potentially occur during treatment with ERTs, as a 
manifestation of immunological response to the product. A single case of glomerulonephritis 
membranoproliferative was reported during the clinical development of Elfabrio, due to immune 
depositions in the kidney (see section 4.8). This event led to a temporary decline in renal function, 
which improved upon discontinuation of the medicinal product. 
Excipients of known effect 
This medicinal product contains 48 mg sodium per vial, equivalent to 2% of the WHO recommended 
maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies and no in vitro metabolism studies have been performed. Based on its 
metabolism, pegunigalsidase alfa is an unlikely candidate for cytochrome P450 mediated drug-drug 
interactions.  
Elfabrio is a protein and is expected to be metabolically degraded through peptide hydrolysis. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of pegunigalsidase alfa in pregnant women. 
Animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity 
(see section 5.3). As a precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid the use of Elfabrio during 
pregnancy unless clearly necessary. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether pegunigalsidase alfa/metabolites are excreted in human milk. Available 
pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in animals have shown excretion of Elfabrio in milk (for details 
see section 5.3). A risk to the newborns/infants cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether 
to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from Elfabrio therapy taking into account the 
benefit of breast feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
There are no studies assessing the potential effect of pegunigalsidase alfa on fertility in humans. 
Animal studies show no evidence of impaired fertility (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Dizziness or vertigo were observed in some patients following Elfabrio administration. These patients 
should refrain from driving or the use of machines until symptoms have subsided. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most common adverse reactions were infusion-related reactions reported in 6.3% of patients, 
followed by hypersensitivity and asthenia reported each by 5.6% of patients. 
In clinical studies, 5 patients (3.5%) experienced a serious reaction that was considered related to 
Elfabrio. Four of these reactions were confirmed IgE-mediated hypersensitivity (bronchospasm, 
hypersensitivity) that occurred at the first infusion of Elfabrio and resolved within the day after 
occurrence. 
Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
The data described below reflects data from 141 patients with Fabry disease who received Elfabrio in 
8 clinical studies, following the posology of 1 mg/kg every two weeks or 2 mg/kg every four weeks 
for a minimum of 1 infusion up to 6 years.  
Adverse reactions are listed in Table 2. Information is presented by system organ class. Frequencies 
are defined as: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to 
< 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000); very rare (< 1/10 000); frequency not known (cannot be 
estimated from available data). 
Table 2:  Adverse reactions reported during treatment with Elfabrio 
System organ class 
Immune system disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Common 
hypersensitivity* 
type I hypersensitivity* 
agitation* 
paraesthesia* 
dizziness* 
headache* 
Frequency 
Uncommon 
insomnia 
restless legs syndrome 
peripheral neuropathy 
neuralgia 
burning sensation 
tremor* 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
vertigo 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common 
Uncommon 
Frequency 
System organ class 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous issue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
nausea* 
abdominal pain* 
diarrhoea 
vomiting* 
rash* 
erythema* 
pruritus* 
arthralgia 
musculoskeletal pain* 
Reproductive system and 
breast disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Investigations 
asthenia* 
chills* 
chest pain* 
pain* 
flushing 
hypotension* 
hypertension* 
lymphoedema 
bronchospasm* 
dyspnoea* 
throat irritation* 
nasal congestion*  
sneezing* 
gastrooesophageal reflux disease 
gastritis 
dyspepsia 
flatulence 
hypohidrosis 
glomerulonephritis membranoproliferative 
chronic kidney disease 
proteinuria 
nipple pain 
infusion site extravasation 
oedema  
influenza-like illness 
infusion site pain 
body temperature increased* 
hepatic enzyme increased 
urine protein/creatinine ratio increased 
white blood cells urine positive 
blood uric acid increased 
weight increased 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
Cardiac disorders 
infusion related 
reaction* 
supraventricular 
extrasystoles 
bradycardia* 
left ventricular hypertrophy 
The following preferred terms have been grouped in Table 2: 
• 
hypersensitivity includes: drug hypersensitivity 
• 
agitation includes: nervousness 
• 
abdominal pain includes: abdominal discomfort 
• 
rash includes: rash maculo-papular and rash pruritic 
• 
musculoskeletal stiffness recorded as musculoskeletal pain includes: myalgia 
• 
asthenia includes: malaise and fatigue 
• 
chest pain includes: chest discomfort and non-cardiac chest pain 
• 
pain includes: pain in extremity 
• 
oedema peripheral recorded as oedema 
* Preferred terms considered as IRR as described in the section below. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Infusion related reactions (adverse reactions within 2 hours of infusion) 
IRRs were reported in a total of 32 patients (22%): 26 patients (23%) treated with 1 mg/kg every two 
weeks and 6 patients (20%) treated with 2 mg/kg every four weeks. The most commonly reported 
symptoms associated with IRRs reported for 1 mg/kg dosage were: hypersensitivity, chills, dizziness, 
rash and itching. For the 2 mg/kg dose the most commonly reported symptom was pain. IRRs were 
mostly mild or moderate in intensity and resolved with continuous treatment; however, 5 patients (all 
male, 1 mg/kg dose) experienced 5 severe IRRs. These 5 IRRs were also serious. Four of these events 
were confirmed type I hypersensitivity reactions and 3 led to the discontinuation from the study. 
Another patient was later withdrawn from the study, after the occurrence of another moderate IRR. All 
5 patients however recovered within the day after of occurrence with appropriate treatment. IRRs 
predominantly occurred within the first year of treatment with Elfabrio and no serious IRR was 
observed during the second year and beyond. 
Immunogenicity 
In clinical studies, 17 out of 111 of patients (16%) treated with 1 mg/kg Elfabrio every two weeks and 
0 out of 30 patients treated with 2 mg/kg Elfabrio every four weeks developed treatment-induced anti-
drug antibodies (ADAs). 
Glomerulonephritis membranoproliferative 
During the clinical development of Elfabrio, one patient out of 136 reported a severe event of 
glomerulonephritis membranoproliferative after receiving treatment for more than 2 years. The patient 
was ADA positive at the start of the infusions. The event led to a transitory reduction in the eGFR and 
an increase on the level of proteinuria, with no additional signs or symptoms. A biopsy revealed the 
immune-complex mediated nature of this event. Upon discontinuation of the treatment, the eGFR 
values stabilised and the glomerulonephritis was reported as resolving. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There are no reports of overdose of Elfabrio during clinical studies. The maximum dose of Elfabrio 
studied was 2 mg/kg body weight every two weeks and no specific signs and symptoms were 
identified following the higher doses. The most common adverse reactions reported were infusion 
related reaction and pain in extremity. If overdose is suspected, seek emergency medical attention. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other alimentary tract and metabolism products, enzymes, ATC code: 
A16AB20. 
Mechanism of action 
The active substance of Elfabrio is pegunigalsidase alfa. Pegunigalsidase alfa is a pegylated 
recombinant form of human α-galactosidase-A. The amino acid sequence of the recombinant form is 
similar to the naturally occurring human enzyme. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pegunigalsidase alfa supplements or replaces α-galactosidase-A, the enzyme that catalyses the 
hydrolysis of the terminal α-galactosyl moieties of oligosaccharides and polysaccharides in the 
lysosome, reducing the amount of accumulation of globotriaosylceramide (Gb3) and 
globotriaosylsphingosine (Lyso-Gb3). 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Efficacy 
The efficacy and safety of pegunigalsidase alfa were evaluated in 142 patients (94 males and 
48 females), of which 112 receiving pegunigalsidase alfa 1 mg/kg every other week (EOW). 
Disease substrate 
Analyses of kidney biopsies from naïve patients treated with pegunigalsidase alfa in a phase 1/2 study 
exhibited a reduction of the globotriaosylceramide (Gb3) substrate from the renal peritubular 
capillaries, measured with BLISS (Barisoni Lipid Inclusion Scoring System) of 68% in the overall 
population (including females, classic males and non-classic males exposed to different tested doses; 
n=13) after 6 months of treatment. Additionally, 11 out of 13 subjects with available biopsies had 
substantial reduction (≥50%) in their BLISS score following 6 months of treatment. Plasma Lyso-Gb3 
decreased by 49% after 12 months of treatment (n=16) and by 83% after 60 months of treatment 
(n=10). In a phase 3 study, where patients were switching from agalsidase beta to pegunigalsidase alfa, 
plasma Lyso-Gb3 values stayed stable after 24 months of treatment (+3.3 nM mean value, n=48). 
Renal function 
The renal function was evaluated through the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR – CKD-EPI 
equation) and its annualised measurement slope was the primary endpoint for efficacy in two phase 3 
studies in previously ERT-treated adult Fabry patients: BALANCE (main study), a randomized, 
double blinded, head-to-head comparison with agalsidase beta, after switch from agalsidase beta at 
month 12 (primary analysis) and month 24, and an open label single arm study, after switch from 
agalsidase alfa, both followed by a long-term extension study. 
No final conclusion on non-inferiority over agalsidase beta as measured by the annualised eGFR can 
be retrieved from the main study given that the data for the primary endpoint comparison at month 12 
was not on its own sufficiently informative due to the design and size of the trial. Nevertheless, the 
median eGFR slopes from baseline to month 24 of pegunigalsidase and the comparator agalsidase beta 
appeared close. At month 12, the mean slopes for eGFR were -2.507 mL/min/1.73 m²/year for the 
pegunigalsidase alfa arm and -1.748 for the agalsidase beta arm (difference -0.749 [-3.026, 1.507]. At 
month 24, the median slopes for eGFR were -2.514 [-3.788; -1.240] mL/min/1.73 m²/year for the 
pegunigalsidase alfa arm and -2.155 [-3.805; -0.505] for the agalsidase beta arm 
(difference -0.359 [-2.444; 1.726]). 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Elfabrio in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of Fabry disease (see 
section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of pegunigalsidase alfa were characterized during the course of 
the clinical development at 0.2, 1, and 2 mg/kg administered every two weeks in adult patients with 
Fabry disease. The pharmacokinetic results for all three dose levels demonstrated that the enzyme was 
available throughout the 2-week intervals with a plasma half-life (t1/2) ranging from 53-134 hours 
across dose groups and visit day. The mean value for AUC0-∞ increased with increasing dose on Day 1 
and throughout the study. Mean values for dose-normalized AUC0-2wk were similar for all dose levels, 
indicating linear dose-proportionality. For patients who received 1 and 2 mg/kg Elfabrio, there were 
increases in mean t1/2 and AUC0-∞ with increasing duration of treatment and corresponding decreases 
in Cl and Vz, suggesting a saturated clearance. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pegunigalsidase alfa is a protein and is expected to be metabolically degraded through peptide 
hydrolysis. Consequently, impaired liver function is not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of 
Elfabrio in a clinically significant way. The molecular weight of pegunigalsidase alfa is ~116 KDa, 
which is twice the cut-off value for glomerular filtration, thus excluding filtration and/or proteolytic 
degradation in kidneys. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
There are no animal studies to assess the carcinogenic or mutagenic potential of Elfabrio. 
In the 6-month chronic toxicity study in mice, an increased incidence and/or mean severity of 
multifocal nephropathy and interstitial lymphocytic infiltration in the kidneys, hepatocytic vacuolation 
and hepatocyte necrosis in the liver, were confined to males and females administered the high-dose of 
40 mg/kg/injection (3.2-fold human exposure, in terms of AUC, following a dose of 1 mg/kg); in 
monkeys, an increased incidence of Kupffer cell hypertrophy was noted in the liver (7.6-fold above 
AUC reached in humans following a dose of 1 mg/kg); all findings resolved during the recovery 
period. 
Animal studies demonstrated low systemic exposure in foetus (between 0.005 and 0.025% of dams’ 
systemic exposure) and suckling pups (maximum 0.014% compared to mother’s systemic exposure) 
following repeated treatment of the dams or mothers with pegunigalsidase alfa. Fertility and 
embryofoetal developmental toxicity studies did not show evidence of impaired fertility, 
embryotoxicity or teratogenicity. However, prenatal and postnatal developmental toxicity studies were 
not performed with pegunigalsidase alfa and the risks for foetus and pups during the late pregnancy 
and lactation are unknown. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium citrate tribasic dihydrate 
Citric acid 
Sodium chloride 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
4 years. 
Diluted solution for infusion 
Chemical and physical in use stability has been demonstrated for 72 hours both at 2 °C-8 °C and 
below 25 °C.  
From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and 
would normally not be longer than 24 hours in the refrigerator (2 °C-8 °C) or 8 hours if stored below 
25 °C, unless dilution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C-8 °C). 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
10 mL vial (15R clear glass) closed with coated rubber stopper and sealed with aluminium flip off cap. 
Pack sizes of 1, 5 or 10 vials. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Elfabrio is for intravenous infusion only. Aseptic technique to be used. 
Vials are for single use only. 
If contamination is suspected, the vial has not to be used. Shaking or agitating this medicinal product 
must be avoided. 
Filter needles do not have to be used during the preparation of the infusion. 
The number of vials to be diluted should be determined based on the individual patient’s weight and 
the required vials should be removed from the refrigerator in order to allow them to reach room 
temperature (in approximately 30 minutes). 
Dilution 
1) 
Determine the total number of vials required for the infusion. 
The number of vials required is based on the total dose required for each individual patient and 
requires calculation for weight-based dosing. 
An example calculation for total dose in an 80 kg patient prescribed 1 mg/kg is as follows: 
-  Patient weight (in kg) ÷ 2 = Volume of dose (in mL) 
-  Example: 80 kg patient ÷ 2 = 40 mL (volume to be withdrawn). 
-  Given that 10 mL can be withdrawn from each vial, 4 vials are needed in this example. 
2) 
Allow the required number of vials to reach room temperature prior to dilution (approximately 
30 minutes). 
Visually inspect the vials. Do not use if cap is missing or broken. Do not use if there is 
particulate matter or if it is discoloured. 
Avoid shaking or agitating the vials. 
3) 
Remove and discard the same volume as calculated in step 1 of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL 
(0.9%) solution for infusion from the infusion bag. 
4)  Withdraw the required volume of Elfabrio solution from the vials, and dilute with sodium 
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for infusion, to a total volume based on patient weight 
specified in Table 4 below. 
Table 4:  Minimum total infusion volume for patients by body weight 
Patient weight 
< 70 kg 
70–100 kg 
> 100 kg 
Minimum total infusion volume 
150 mL 
250 mL 
500 mL 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inject the Elfabrio solution directly into the infusion bag. 
Do NOT inject in the airspace within the infusion bag. 
Gently invert the infusion bag to mix the solution, avoiding vigorous shaking and agitation. 
The diluted solution should be administered using an inline low protein binding 0.2 μm filter. 
Disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material must be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/23/1724/001 
EU/1/23/1724/002 
EU/1/23/1724/003 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation:  
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
Protalix Ltd. 
2 Snunit St., Science Park, 
Carmiel 2161401 
Israel 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via San Leonardo 96 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
Prior to the use of Elfabrio in each Member State in the home setting the MAH must agree about the 
content and format of the educational programme, including communication media, distribution 
modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent Authority. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Elfabrio is marketed, all Healthcare 
Professionals (HCP) who are expected to prescribe Elfabrio are provided with the following 
educational pack, which includes: 
•  An HCP brochure providing relevant information for the HCP to train the patient and/or caregiver 
to administer the product at home, which describes the following key elements: 
 
 
  checklist with eligibility criteria for home infusion 
 
the need for prescribing medication to treat IRRs and that the patient/caregiver should 
be able to use them 
the need for premedication if necessary (with antihistamines and/or corticosteroids) in 
those patients where symptomatic treatment was required. 
the training of the person who will infuse pegunigalsidase alfa on how to identify 
IRRs 
the training of the person who will infuse pegunigalsidase alfa about the preparation 
and administration of the product and the use of the logbook 
 
the need of the logbook and its function in communication with the treating physician 
  describe the importance of the presence of a caregiver in case emergency medical care 
 
is needed 
•  A patient/ caregiver/ HCP guide for the administration at home which describe the following key 
elements:  
  Step by step instructions on the preparation and administration technique including 
proper aseptic technique  
the dosing and infusion rate which will be determined by the treating physician 
 
  signs and symptoms of IRRs and how to treat or manage them 
 
the importance of the presence of a caregiver to monitor the patient in case emergency 
medical care is needed 
  medication prescribed by the treating physician for IRRs or pre-medication should be 
 
available at home and should be used accordingly 
the logbook should be used to record the infusion and any IRR, and taken to the 
treating physician visits 
15 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Elfabrio 2 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion  
pegunigalsidase alfa  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One vial contains 20 mg of pegunigalsidase alfa in 10 mL (2 mg/mL) 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Sodium citrate tribasic dihydrate 
Citric acid 
Sodium chloride 
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
concentrate for solution for infusion 
20 mg/10 mL 
1 vial 
5 vials 
10 vials 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For intravenous use after dilution. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A.  
Via Palermo 26/A  
43122 Parma 
Italy 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1724/001 
EU/1/23/1724/002 
EU/1/23/1724/003 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Elfabrio 2 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion  
pegunigalsidase alfa 
IV after dilution 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use 
Intravenous use 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6. 
OTHER 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Elfabrio 2 mg/mL concentrate for solution for infusion 
pegunigalsidase alfa 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how 
to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Elfabrio is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you are given Elfabrio 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Elfabrio is given 
Possible side effects  
How to store Elfabrio 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Elfabrio is and what it is used for 
Elfabrio contains the active substance pegunigalsidase alfa, and is used as enzyme replacement 
therapy in adult patients with confirmed Fabry disease. Fabry disease is a rare genetic disease that can 
affect many parts of the body. In patients with Fabry disease, a fat substance is not removed from the 
cells of their body, and builds up in the walls of blood vessels which can cause organ failure. This fat 
builds up in the cells of these patients because they do not have enough of an enzyme called α-
galactosidase-A, the enzyme responsible for breaking it down Elfabrio is used long-term to 
supplement or replace this enzyme in adult patients who have confirmed Fabry disease. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Elfabrio 
Do not use Elfabrio 
• 
if you are severely allergic to pegunigalsidase alfa or any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6). 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before Elfabrio is used. 
If you are treated with Elfabrio, you may experience a side effect during or immediately following the 
drip (infusion) used to give the medicine (see section 4). This is known as an infusion-related 
reaction and can sometimes be severe. 
• 
• 
Infusion-related reactions include dizziness, headache, nausea, low blood pressure, tiredness and 
fever. If you experience an infusion-related reaction, you must tell your doctor immediately. 
If you have an infusion-related reaction you may be given additional medicines to treat or help 
prevent future reactions. These medicines may include medicines used to treat allergies 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(antihistamines), medicines used to treat fever (antipyretics) and medicines to control 
inflammation (corticosteroids). 
If the infusion-related reaction is severe, your doctor will stop the infusion immediately and 
start giving you appropriate medical treatment or slow down treatment rate. 
If the infusion-related reactions are severe and/or there is a loss of effect from this medicine, 
your doctor will perform a blood test to check for antibodies that might affect the outcome of 
your treatment. 
Most of the time you can still be given Elfabrio even if you experience an infusion-related 
reaction. 
• 
• 
• 
In very rare cases, your immune system may not be able to recognise Elfabrio, leading to an 
immunological kidney disease (glomerulonephritis membranoproliferative). During the clinical 
studies, only one case occurred, and the only symptoms reported were a temporary decline of renal 
functions with excess proteins in the urine. The symptoms resolved upon discontinuation of the 
treatment. 
Children and adolescents 
This medicine should not be used in children and adolescents. The safety and efficacy of Elfabrio in 
children and adolescents aged 0-17 years have not been established. 
Other medicines and Elfabrio 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
You should not use Elfabrio if you are pregnant, since there is no experience with Elfabrio in pregnant 
women. If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your 
doctor for advice before you are given this medicine. 
It is unknown whether Elfabrio is excreted in human milk. Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding 
or plan to do so. Your doctor will then help you decide whether to stop breast-feeding or stop taking 
Elfabrio, considering the benefit of breast-feeding for your baby and the benefit of Elfabrio for you. 
Driving and using machines 
Elfabrio may cause dizziness or vertigo. If you feel dizzy or vertigo on the day of treatment with 
Elfabrio, do not to drive or use machines until you feel better. 
Elfabrio contains sodium 
This medicine contains 48 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each vial. This is 
equivalent to 2% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. 
3. 
How Elfabrio is given 
This medicine is only to be used under the supervision of a doctor experienced in the treatment of 
Fabry disease or other similar diseases and should only be given by a healthcare professional. 
The recommended dose is 1 mg/kg of body weight given once every two weeks.  
Your doctor may advice that you can be treated at home provided you meet certain criteria. Please 
contact your doctor if you would like to be treated at home. 
See information for healthcare professionals at the end of this package leaflet. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side 
effects occur during the infusion or shortly after (“infusion-related reaction”, see section 2 “Warnings 
and precautions”). 
While under treatment with Elfabrio, you may experience some of the following reactions: 
Serious side effects 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
hypersensitivity and serious allergic reaction (symptoms including excessive and prolonged 
contraction of the airway muscles causing breathing difficulty (bronchospasm), swelling of the 
face, mouth and throat, wheezing, low blood pressure, hives, difficulty swallowing, rash, 
shortness of breath, flushing, chest discomfort, itchiness, sneezing and nasal congestion) 
If these side effects happen, immediately seek medical attention and stop the infusion. Your doctor 
will give you medical treatment if required. 
Other side effects include 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
infusion related reactions 
weakness 
feeling sick (nausea) 
rash 
abdominal pain 
dizziness 
pain 
chest pain 
headache 
muscle and joint pain 
sensations like numbness, tingling, or pins and needles (paraesthesia) 
itching (pruritus) 
diarrhoea 
vomiting 
chills 
redding of the skin (erythema) 
a spinning sensation (vertigo), arousal, irritability or confusion 
alteration of the normal heart rhythm 
agitation 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
shaking (tremor) 
high blood pressure (hypertension) 
bronchospasm (contraction of the bronchial muscles causing obstruction of breathing airways) 
and difficult breathing 
throat irritation 
increased body temperature  
difficulty sleeping (insomnia) 
restless legs syndrome 
nerve damage in arms and legs causing pain or numbness, burning and tingling (peripheral 
neuropathy) 
nerve pain (neuralgia) 
burning sensation  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
flushing 
disease where stomach acid goes upwards into the oesophagus (gastro-oesophageal reflux 
disease) 
inflammation of the stomach lining (dyspepsia) 
indigestion 
gas (flatulence) 
diminished sweating (hypohydrosis) 
immunological kidney disease causing excess protein in the urine and renal malfunctioning 
(glomerulonephritis membranoproliferative) 
chronic kidney disease 
excess protein in the urine (proteinuria) 
tissue damage because the medicine that is normally infused into a vein leaks or is accidentally 
infused into the surrounding tissue (infusion site extravasation) 
swelling of lower legs or hands (oedema) 
swelling of arms or legs  
influenza-like illness 
nasal congestion and sneezing 
infusion site pain 
increased liver enzymes and uric acid in the blood, increased urine protein/creatinine ratio, 
white blood cells in the urine, as tested in the laboratory 
weight increase 
low blood pressure (hypotension) 
slow heart rate (bradycardia) 
thickening of the wall within the ventricle in the heart  
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in this 
leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Elfabrio 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton after “EXP”. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C-8 °C). 
After dilution, the diluted solution should be used immediately. If not used immediately, the diluted 
solution should be stored for no longer than 24 hours in a refrigerator (2 °C-8 °C) or for no longer than 
8 hours at room temperature (below 25 °C). 
Do not use this medicine if you notice particles or discolouration. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Elfabrio contains 
- 
The active substance is pegunigalsidase alfa. Each vial contains 20 mg pegunigalsidase alfa in 
10 mL (2 mg/mL) 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
The other ingredients are: tribasic dihydrate sodium citrate, citric acid, and sodium chloride (see 
section 2 “Elfabrio contains sodium”). 
What Elfabrio looks like and contents of the pack 
Clear and colourless solution in clear glass vial with a rubber stopper and sealed with aluminium flip 
off cap. 
Pack sizes: 1, 5 or 10 vials. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A  
43122 Parma  
Italy 
Manufacturer 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via San Leonardo 96 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Chiesi sa/nv  
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 788 42 00 
България 
Chiesi Bulgaria EOOD  
Тел.: +359 29201205  
Česká republika 
Chiesi CZ s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 261221745 
Danmark 
Chiesi Pharma AB 
Tlf: + 46 8 753 35 20 
Deutschland 
Chiesi GmbH 
Tel: + 49 40 89724-0 
Eesti 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH 
Tel: + 43 1 4073919 
Ελλάδα 
Chiesi Hellas AEBE 
Τηλ: + 30 210 6179763 
Lietuva 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH  
Tel: + 43 1 4073919  
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Chiesi sa/nv 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 788 42 00 
Magyarország 
Chiesi Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: + 36-1-429 1060 
Malta 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
Nederland 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals B.V. 
Tel: + 31 88 501 64 00 
Norge 
Chiesi Pharma AB 
Tlf: + 46 8 753 35 20 
Österreich 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH 
Tel: + 43 1 4073919 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
España 
Chiesi España, S.A.U. 
Tel: + 34 934948000 
France 
Chiesi S.A.S.  
Tél: + 33 1 47688899 
Hrvatska 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH 
Tel: + 43 1 4073919 
Ireland 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
Ísland 
Chiesi Pharma AB 
Sími: +46 8 753 35 20 
Italia 
Chiesi Italia S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
Κύπρος 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Τηλ: + 39 0521 2791 
Latvija 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH 
Tel: + 43 1 4073919 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Polska 
Chiesi Poland Sp. z.o.o. 
Tel.: + 48 22 620 1421 
Portugal 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
România 
Chiesi Romania S.R.L. 
Tel: + 40 212023642 
Slovenija 
CHIESI SLOVENIJA, d.o.o. 
Tel: + 386-1-43 00 901 
Slovenská republika 
Chiesi Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: + 421 259300060 
Suomi/Finland 
Chiesi Pharma AB 
Puh/Tel: +46 8 753 35 20 
Sverige 
Chiesi Pharma AB 
Tel: +46 8 753 35 20 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Tel: + 39 0521 2791 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments.  
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Dilution (using aseptic technique) 
1) 
Determine the total number of vials required for the infusion. 
The number of vials required is based on the total dose required for each individual patient and 
requires calculation for weight-based dosing. 
An example calculation for total dose in an 80 kg patient prescribed 1 mg/kg is as follows: 
-  Patient weight (in kg) ÷ 2 = Volume of dose (in mL) 
-  Example: 80 kg patient ÷ 2 = 40 mL (volume to be withdrawn). 
-  Given that 10 mL can be withdrawn from each vial, 4 vials are needed in this example. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2) 
Allow the required number of vials to reach room temperature prior to dilution (approximately 
30 minutes). 
Visually inspect the vials. Do not use if cap is missing or broken. Do not use if there is 
particulate matter or if it is discoloured. 
Avoid shaking or agitating the vials. 
3) 
Remove and discard the same volume as calculated in step 1 of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL 
(0.9%) solution for infusion from the infusion bag. 
4)  Withdraw the required volume of Elfabrio solution from the vials, and dilute with sodium 
chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for infusion, to a total volume based on patient weight 
specified in the table below. 
Minimum total infusion volume for patients by body weight 
Patient weight 
< 70 kg 
70–100 kg 
> 100 kg 
Minimum total infusion volume 
150 mL 
250 mL 
500 mL 
Inject the Elfabrio solution directly into the infusion bag. 
Do NOT inject in the airspace within the infusion bag. 
Gently invert the infusion bag to mix the solution, avoiding vigorous shaking and agitation. 
The diluted solution should be administered using an inline low protein binding 0.2 μm filter. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
