EMA/210775/2023 
EMEA/H/C/005618
Elfabrio (pegunigalsidase alfa)
An overview of Elfabrio and why it is authorised in the EU
What is Elfabrio and what is it used for?
Elfabrio is a medicine used in adults to treat Fabry disease, a rare inherited disorder. Patients with 
Fabry disease do not have enough of an enzyme, called alpha-galactosidase A, that normally breaks 
down a fatty substance called globotriaosylceramide (Gb3). If the enzyme is not present, Gb3 cannot 
be broken down and it builds up in the organs, such as the kidney and heart, causing kidney failure 
and heart problems.
Elfabrio contains the active substance pegunigalsidase alfa.
How is Elfabrio used?
Elfabrio can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be supervised by a doctor with 
experience in treating Fabry disease. 
Elfabrio is available as an infusion (drip) into a vein, which is given once every two weeks. It is 
intended for long-term use. All patients are monitored for any reactions during the infusion and for at 
least one to two hours afterwards. To reduce the risk of infusion-related reactions, patients may be 
given other medicines before or during treatment with Elfabrio or the infusion time may be slowed 
down. The infusions are given in hospital but may be given at home if the patient is tolerating the 
infusions well. 
For more information about using Elfabrio, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist.
How does Elfabrio work?
Elfabrio is an enzyme replacement therapy. This type of therapy provides patients with the enzyme 
they are lacking. Elfabrio is designed to replace the human enzyme alpha-galactosidase A, which is 
lacking in patients with Fabry disease. The active substance in Elfabrio, pegunigalsidase alfa, is a copy 
of the human enzyme, produced by a method known as ‘recombinant DNA technology’: it is made by 
cells that have received a gene (DNA), which makes them able to produce the enzyme. The 
replacement enzyme helps to break down Gb-3 and stops it building up in the patient’s cells.
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
What benefits of Elfabrio have been shown in studies?
The benefits of Elfabrio were evaluated in one main study, involving 78 patients with Fabry disease. 
The study compared Elfabrio with Fabrazyme, another enzyme replacement therapy used to treat 
patients with Fabry disease. The main measure of effectiveness was based on glomerular filtration rate 
(GFR; a measure of how well the kidneys are working), which decreases as a patient’s kidney function 
gets worse. The average GFR reduced by 2.5 mL/min/1.73m2 per year after both 12 and 24 months of 
treatment with Elfabrio compared with 1.7 mL/min/1.73m2 and 2.2 mL/min/1.73m2 in those who 
received Fabrazyme. Supportive data showed a significant decrease in the levels of Gb3 in the kidneys 
and blood of patients treated with Elfabrio. 
What are the risks associated with Elfabrio?
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Elfabrio, see the package leaflet.
The most common side effects with Elfabrio (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) include 
hypersensitivity (allergic reactions), asthenia (weakness) and infusion-associated reactions. 
Allergic reactions, including excessive and prolonged contraction of the airway muscles causing 
breathing difficulty (bronchospasm), can occur in people receiving Elfabrio.
Why is Elfabrio authorised in the EU?
The Agency considered that the efficacy of Elfabrio was supported by nature of the active substance, 
specifically that it is a pegylated form of the natural occurring enzyme, and also by the well-established 
mechanism of action of enzyme replacement therapy in the treatment of Fabry disease. Results from 
the main study showed a significant decrease in the levels of Gb3 in both the kidneys and blood of 
patients treated with Elfabrio. Due to limitations with the study design, including the small number of 
patients involved, results of the main study did not conclusively show that Elfabrio was at least as 
effective as Fabrazyme. 
Furthermore, the side effects of Elfabrio, which are mainly related to the infusion, are considered 
manageable. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Elfabrio’s benefits are greater 
than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU.
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Elfabrio?
The company that markets Elfabrio will provide educational materials to patients or their carers and to 
healthcare professionals, with information on how to give the product correctly within the home 
setting. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Elfabrio have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet.
As for all medicines, data on the use of Elfabrio are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Elfabrio are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients.
Other information about Elfabrio
Elfabrio received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 4 May 2023.
Elfabrio (pegunigalsidase alfa) 
EMA/210775/2023
Page 2/3
Further information on Elfabrio can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/elfabrio. 
This overview was last updated in 05-2023. 
Elfabrio (pegunigalsidase alfa) 
EMA/210775/2023
Page 3/3
