28 January 2021 
EMA/259527/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): apixaban 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00000226/202005 
Period covered by the PSUR: 17 May 2019 to 17 May 2020 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for apixaban, the scientific conclusions of 
the CHMP are as follows: 
Erythema multiforme: initial signal review by the EMA and PRAC in February 2020 identified four probably 
related cases without confounding factors including a literature case (Shinya et al) of which three 
presented a positive dechallenge. Based on this signal review a cumulative review from all sources was 
requested for the current PSUR. 
The cumulative review provided by the MAH in the current PSUR included three cases for which a causal 
association with apixaban is likely as all three cases report a (partial-event resolving) positive dechallenge 
on apixaban. In these 3 cases the diagnosis was confirmed by dermatologist or an examination. EM 
occurred within 4, 8 and 10 days of apixaban treatment start and in one case a drug-induced lymphocyte 
stimulation test (DLST) was positive for apixaban further supporting the association.   
One of these cases was also part of the initial signal evaluation (i.e. literature case by Shinya et al). 
Therefore, the MAH should update the PI with the new ADR “erythema multiforme”. Based on 1 case of 
erythema multiforme in out of 11,000 subjects exposed in NVAF clinical trials the frequency very rare 
should be used for this indication. No case of erythema multiforme were reported for the other two 
indications (VTEt and VTEp) in clinical trials and the frequency should therefore be not known.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for apixaban the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing apixaban is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to 
the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/259527/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
