27 June 2013 
EMA/CHMP/374542/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Eliquis 
apixaban 
Procedure no. EMEA/H/C/002148/PSUV/0012 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the 
terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for apixaban, the scientific 
conclusions of PRAC are as follows:  
The contraindication in lesion or condition at significant risk for major bleeding which is now in place 
for Eliquis does not allow for medical judgement, especially with regard to the prevention of VTE in 
surgery indications where, for example, an AV malformation or an aneurysm should not necessarily 
exclude a patient from receiving one of the new anticoagulants. This concern was viewed in 
perspective of safety profile of Eliquis during PSUR period and was acknowledged by PRAC. Therefore, 
it is requested that the contraindication about lesions and conditions is revised slightly allowing the 
prescribing physician some more room for clinical judgment on when to consider the listed lesions and 
conditions as absolute contraindications.  
The potential consultation of a coagulation expert may be an obvious consideration for most 
emergency ward physicians treating a major bleeding complication to an overdose with an 
anticoagulant. However, a specific recommendation in the SmPC could be helpful to younger physicians 
and having a recommendation in the Pradaxa SmPC and not in the SmPCs for Xarelto and Eliquis may 
lead to misunderstandings. 
Therefore, it is suggested to update of SmPC sections 4.3 and 4.9 to update information related to 
bleeding risk and management of bleeding. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Eliquis the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance apixaban is favourable subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
EMA/539464/2013  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
