EMA/416082/2018 
EMEA/H/C/002148 
Eliquis (apixaban) 
An overview of Eliquis and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Eliquis and what is it used for? 
Eliquis is a medicine used to prevent venous thromboembolism (blood clots in the veins) in adults 
following a hip or knee replacement operation. It is also used in adults to treat deep vein thrombosis 
(blood clot in a deep vein, usually in the leg) and pulmonary embolism (clot in a blood vessel supplying 
the lungs), and to prevent their reoccurrence. 
Additionally, Eliquis is used to prevent stroke (caused by blood clots in the brain) and blood clots in 
other organs in adults with atrial fibrillation (irregular rapid contractions of the upper chambers of the 
heart). It is used in patients who have one or more risk factors, such as having had a previous stroke, 
having high blood pressure, diabetes, heart failure or being 75 years old or over.  
Eliquis contains the active substance apixaban. 
How is Eliquis used? 
Eliquis can only be obtained with a prescription. It is available as tablets (2.5 mg, 5 mg). 
For patients who have had a hip or knee replacement, treatment with Eliquis should be started 12 to 
24 hours after the operation. The recommended dose is one 2.5 mg tablet taken by mouth twice a day, 
usually for over one month (32 to 38 days) after a hip replacement or for 10 to 14 days after a knee 
replacement. For patients with atrial fibrillation at risk of stroke or blood clots, the recommended dose 
is 5 mg taken twice a day.  
For the treatment of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, the recommended dose is 10 mg 
twice a day for the first week, followed by 5 mg twice a day for at least 3 months. To prevent deep 
vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism from reoccurring, the recommended dose is 2.5 mg twice a 
day.  
For more information about using Eliquis, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Eliquis work? 
Patients undergoing hip or knee replacement surgery, who have had a recent trauma, or are confined 
to bed are at a high risk of blood clots forming in the veins, which can be dangerous and even fatal if 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
they move to another part of the body such as the lungs. Similarly, patients with atrial fibrillation are 
at high risk of clots forming in the heart, which can reach the brain where they can cause a stroke. 
The active substance in Eliquis, apixaban, is a ‘factor Xa inhibitor’. This means that it blocks factor Xa, 
an enzyme that is involved in the production of thrombin. Thrombin is central to the process of blood 
clotting. By blocking factor Xa, it reduces the levels of thrombin in the blood, which reduces the risk of 
blood clots forming in the arteries and veins.  
What benefits of Eliquis have been shown in studies? 
Eliquis was effective at preventing blood clots in the veins following a hip or knee replacement in two 
main studies involving a total of 8,464 patients. In both studies, Eliquis was compared with enoxaparin 
(another medicine used to prevent blood clots). The medicine’s effectiveness was measured by looking 
at the number of patients who either had problems related to clotting in the veins or who died of any 
cause during the treatment period. In patients undergoing a hip replacement, 1.4% of the patients 
who completed treatment with Eliquis (27 out of 1,949) had a clotting event or died from any cause, 
compared with 3.9% (74 out of 1,917) of the patients taking enoxaparin. In patients undergoing a 
knee replacement, the corresponding numbers were 15% (147 out of 976) for Eliquis compared with 
24% (243 out of 997) for enoxaparin. 
Eliquis was also shown to be effective in preventing strokes and arterial blood clots in patients with 
atrial fibrillation in two main studies: the first (in 18,201 patients) compared Eliquis with another 
medicine, warfarin, while the second (in 5,598 patients) compared Eliquis with aspirin. The main 
measures of effectiveness were based on the number of strokes or clotting events that occurred during 
treatment. In the study comparing Eliquis with warfarin, 1.3 % of the patients taking Eliquis had a 
stroke or clotting event every year compared with 1.6% of the patients taking warfarin. The yearly 
rates in the second study were 1.6% for patients taking Eliquis and 3.6% for patients taking aspirin. 
Eliquis was also effective at treating deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism and preventing 
their reoccurrence in two main studies. In the treatment study conducted in 5,395 patients, Eliquis was 
compared with enoxaparin followed by warfarin; the main measure of effectiveness was based on the 
number of patients who either had blood clots in the veins of the legs or lungs or died because of this 
during the treatment period. 2.3% of patients treated with Eliquis had a clot or died, compared with 
2.7% of patients treated with enoxaparin plus warfarin, showing that Eliquis was as effective as the 
comparator treatment. 
In the prevention study in 2,482 patients, Eliquis was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) 
and its effectiveness was measured by looking at the number of patients who either had problems 
related to clotting in the veins or who died of any cause during treatment. 2.3% of patients taking 
Eliquis (2.5 mg twice a day) experienced a clot or died, compared with 9.3% of patients taking placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Eliquis? 
The most frequent side effects with Eliquis (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are anaemia 
(low red blood cell counts), haemorrhage (bleeding), haematoma (a collection of blood under the skin), 
contusion (bruising), nausea (feeling sick), low blood pressure (hypotension), epistaxis (nose bleeds), 
haematuria (blood in urine), low blood platelet counts (thrombocytopenia), blood tests showing alanine 
aminotransferase and gamma-glutamyltransferase increase and skin rash. Some of these side effects 
are not seen with all the uses of Eliquis. 
Eliquis (apixaban)  
EMA/416082/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Eliquis must not be used in patients who are actively bleeding, or who have liver disease which leads to 
problems with blood clotting and an increased risk of bleeding. The medicine must also not be used in 
patients with conditions putting them at risk of major bleeding, such as an ulcer in the gut, or in 
patients being treated with other anticoagulant medicines except in specific circumstances (see 
summary of product characteristics). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Eliquis, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Eliquis authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Eliquis’ benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Eliquis? 
The company that markets Eliquis will provide educational material for healthcare professionals 
expected to prescribe Eliquis that addresses the risk of bleeding during treatment. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Eliquis have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Eliquis are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Eliquis are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients.  
Other information about Eliquis 
Eliquis received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 18 May 2011.  
Further information on Eliquis can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports.  
This overview was last updated in 09-2014.  
Eliquis (apixaban)  
EMA/416082/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
