EMA/213902/2017  
EMEA/H/C/004246 
EPAR summary for the public 
Elmiron 
pentosan polysulfate sodium 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Elmiron. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Elmiron. 
For practical information about using Elmiron, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Elmiron and what is it used for? 
Elmiron is a medicine used to treat adults with bladder pain syndrome, a condition of the bladder which 
causes pain in the pelvic area and a frequent, urgent need to pass urine. 
Elmiron is used in patients with moderate to severe pain and who have small bleeds or lesions (sores) 
in the bladder wall. 
Elmiron contains the active substance pentosan polysulfate sodium. 
How is Elmiron used? 
Elmiron is available as 100-mg capsules and can only be obtained with a prescription. The 
recommended dose is one capsule taken three times a day. 
Patients should be assessed every six months and treatment should be stopped if no improvement is 
seen. 
For further information, see the package leaflet. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Elmiron work? 
The way the active substance in Elmiron, pentosan polysulfate sodium, works is not fully understood 
but it passes into the urine and is thought to attach to and help repair the protective layer of mucus 
lining the bladder, which is deficient in patients with bladder pain syndrome. This reinforcement of the 
protective layer may reduce inflammation and bladder pain. 
What benefits of Elmiron have been shown in studies? 
Because pentosan polysulfate sodium is a well-known substance, and its use in bladder pain syndrome 
is well established, the company for Elmiron presented data from the scientific literature. A review of 4 
main studies from the literature showed that pentosan polysulfate sodium is effective at reducing 
symptoms, such as pain and the urge to pass urine frequently.  
The studies involved a total of 454 patients with small bleeds and lesions in the bladder wall. Looking 
at the results of the 4 studies together, 1 in 3 (33%) patients taking pentosan polysulfate sodium 
showed an overall improvement in their condition compared with around 1 in 6 (16%) patients taking 
placebo (a dummy treatment). 
What are the risks associated with Elmiron? 
The most common side effects with Elmiron (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) include headache, 
dizziness, and effects in the digestive systems such as diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick), abdominal 
(belly) pain and bleeding from the rectum. Since Elmiron may have a weak anticoagulant effect (i.e. it 
may stop the blood from clotting properly), it must not be used in patients who actively bleed (but this 
does not include women during menstrual cycle). For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with 
Elmiron, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Elmiron approved? 
Bladder pain syndrome is a distressing condition for which no medicines were previously approved in 
the EU. In patients with small bleeds and lesions in the bladder wall, treatment with Elmiron led to 
significantly more patients having an overall improvement in symptoms. 
No major safety concerns were identified, and the possible risk of bleeding can be minimised with 
appropriate precautions. 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) therefore decided that 
Elmiron’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Elmiron? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Elmiron have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Elmiron 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Elmiron on 2 June 2017. 
Elmiron  
EMA/213902/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The full EPAR for Elmiron can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Elmiron, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2017. 
Elmiron  
EMA/213902/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
