EMA/697822/2018  
EMEA/H/C/003964 
Elocta (efmoroctocog alfa) 
An overview of Elocta and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Elocta and what is it used for? 
Elocta is a medicine used to treat and prevent bleeding in patients with haemophilia A (an inherited 
bleeding disorder caused by lack of factor VIII). It contains the active substance efmoroctocog alfa. 
How is Elocta used? 
Elocta is available as a powder and solvent used to make a solution for injection. The injection is given 
into a vein over several minutes. The dose and frequency of the injections depend on whether Elocta is 
used to treat or prevent bleeding, the severity of the patient’s factor VIII deficiency, the extent and 
location of the bleeding and the patient’s condition and bodyweight.  
Elocta can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started under the supervision 
of a doctor who has experience in the treatment of haemophilia. For more information about using 
Elocta, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Elocta work? 
Patients with haemophilia A lack factor VIII, a protein needed for normal clotting of the blood, and as a 
result, they bleed readily. The active substance in Elocta, efmoroctocog alfa, works in the body in the 
same way as human factor VIII. It replaces the missing factor VIII, thereby helping the blood to clot 
and giving temporary control of bleeding. 
What benefits of Elocta have been shown in studies? 
Two main studies of Elocta showed that the medicine is effective at both preventing and treating 
bleeding episodes. 
In a study of 165 adult patients with haemophilia A, patients who were given Elocta as a tailored 
preventive treatment had around 3 bleeding episodes a year, which compares with 37 episodes a year 
in patients not given preventive treatment. In addition, when bleeding did occur, Elocta treatment was 
rated as ‘excellent’ or ‘good’ in more than 78% of cases, with 87% of bleeding episodes resolving with 
only one injection. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
In a study in 69 children, Elocta was similarly effective: 2 bleeding episodes occurred per year on 
average and 81% of bleeding episodes resolved with only one injection. 
What are the risks associated with Elocta? 
Hypersensitivity (allergic) reactions are seen rarely with Elocta and these include: swelling of the face, 
rash, hives, tightness of the chest and difficulty breathing, burning and stinging at the injection site, 
chills, flushing, itching over the whole body, headache, low blood pressure, lethargy, nausea, 
restlessness, and a fast heartbeat. In some cases these reactions can become severe. 
There is also a risk with factor VIII medicines that some patients will develop inhibitors (antibodies) 
against factor VIII, causing the medicine to stop working and resulting in a loss of bleeding control. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Elocta, see the package leaflet.  
Why is Elocta authorised in the EU? 
Studies show that Elocta is effective at preventing and treating bleeding episodes in patients with 
haemophilia A and its safety is in line with what is expected for medicines of its kind. The European 
Medicines Agency therefore decided that Elocta’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Elocta? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Elocta have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Elocta are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Elocta are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Elocta 
Elocta received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 19 November 2015. 
Further information on Elocta can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Elocta.  
This summary was last updated in 10-2018. 
Elocta (efmoroctocog alfa)  
EMA/697822/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
