Summary of risk management plan for Elocta 
(efmoroctocog alfa) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Elocta. The RMP details important risks of 
Elocta, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Elocta's 
risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Elocta's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Elocta should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Elocta should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Elocta's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Elocta is authorised for treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with hemophilia A 
(congenital factor VIII deficiency). Elocta can be used for all age groups (see SmPC for the full 
indication). It contains efmoroctocog alfa (recombinant coagulation factor VIII Fc fusion protein) as the 
active substance and it is given by intravenous injection. 
Further information about the evaluation of Elocta’s benefits can be found in Elocta’s EPAR, including 
in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the U
Umedicine’s webpage.U
U  
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Elocta, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for 
learning more about Elocta's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
Page 1 of 4 
 
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Elocta is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A.  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Elocta are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a 
link with the use of Elocta. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the 
medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Inhibitor development to factor VIII 
Important potential risks 
Serious vascular thromboembolic events  
Missing information 
None 
Page 2 of 4 
 
 
 
II.B.  Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Inhibitor development to factor VIII 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
This is a known risk for FVIII replacement therapy, including 
Elocta. Inhibitor development have been observed in the 
completed study in previously untreated patients (Study 
997HA306) and in the postmarketing setting.  
Risk factors and risk groups 
The causes of inhibitor development to FVIII are not known. The 
risk has been associated with peak treatment moments, surgery, 
family history of inhibitors, and FVIII genetic mutation, including 
large deletions, nonsense mutations, or intron 22 inversions. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication: 
•  SmPC section 4.8 
• 
PL section 4 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical 
measures to address the risk: 
•  Recommendation for monitoring development of 
inhibitors by appropriate clinical observation and 
laboratory tests are included in SmPC sections 4.4 
•  How to detect early signs and symptoms of inhibitor 
development in PL section 2 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: None 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
• 
European Haemophilia Safety Surveillance System 
(EUHASS) participation and data collection 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Page 3 of 4 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Serious vascular thromboembolic events  
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
In the literature, thrombotic events reported in hemophilia A 
patients treated with FVIII replacement products are rare. The 
risk of vascular thromboembolic events with the use recombinant 
factor VIII products, such as Elocta, has not been established. 
Published reports of vascular thrombotic adverse events in 
patients with hemophilia A and recombinant FVIII replacement 
occur in the setting of pre-existing risk factors, e.g. 
cardiovascular risk factors and indwelling central venous 
catheters. 
Patients with pre-existing risk factors for thromboembolism (e.g. 
cardiovascular risk factors, indwelling central venous catheters). 
Cardiovascular risk factors are more likely to occur with 
advancing age. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk communication:None 
Routine risk minimisation activities recommending specific clinical 
measures to address the risk: 
• 
• 
• 
Information about risk of cardiovascular events in patient 
with existing cardiovascular risk factors is included in 
SmPC section 4.4 
Information about risk of catheter-related complications, 
including catheter site thrombosis is included in SmPC 
section 4.4 
Information about risk of catheter-related complications, 
including catheter site thrombosis is described in 
PL Section 2 
Other routine risk minimisation measures beyond the Product 
Information: None 
Additional risk minimisation measures: None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
• 
European Haemophilia Safety Surveillance System 
(EUHASS) participation and data collection 
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan. 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
II.C.  Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1.  Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Elocta. 
II.C.2.  Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
•  Data collection from participation in the European Haemophilia Safety Surveillance System 
(EUHASS) registry. 
UPurpose of the studyU
U: To monitor the treatment safety of hemophilia A. 
Page 4 of 4 
 
 
U
