European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 19 November 2009 
Doc.Ref.: EMA/CHMP/802299/2009 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Elonva 
International Nonproprietary Name: corifollitropin alfa 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/1106 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 3 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 5 
2.1. 
2.2. 
2.3. 
2.4. 
2.5. 
2.6. 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 7 
Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................................... 11 
Clinical aspects ...................................................................................................................... 17 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 36 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation ...................................... 40 
2/43 
 
 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  N.V.  Organon  submitted  on  04  December  2008  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Elonva,  through  the  centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
“Controlled  Ovarian  Stimulation  (COS)  for  the  development  of  multiple  follicles  and  pregnancy  in 
women participating in an Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) program.” 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMEA Decision 
P/131/2008 for the following condition:  
•  Hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism. 
on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP).  
The PIP is not yet completed.  
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 27 January 2006. The Scientific Advice 
pertained to non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Pieter de Graeff 
Co-Rapporteur: Patrick Salmon 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 04 December 2008. 
The procedure started on 24 December 2008.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  13  March 
2009. The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 19 
March 2009. 
During  the  meeting  on  20-23  April  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 23 April 2009. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 22 July 
2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 4 September 2009. 
3/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The Rapporteurs circulated the updated Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to 
all CHMP members on 17 September 2009. 
The final GCP integrated inspection report of the inspection carried out at one investigator site 
in South Korea (06-10/04/09), one investigator site in Taiwan (13-17/04/09) and at the sponsor 
site in the Netherlands (11-14/05/09) was issued on 22 September. 
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  21-24  September  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  List  of 
Outstanding Issues to be addressed in writing or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP list of outstanding issues on 15 October 
2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 2 November 2009. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the updated Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to 
all CHMP members on 13 November 2009. 
During  the  meeting  on  16-19  November  2009,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting  a  Marketing  Authorisation  to  Elonva  on  19  November  2009.  The  applicant  provided 
the  letter  of  undertaking  on  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation  on  18 
November 2009. 
4/43 
 
 
 
2.  SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for a biotech medicinal product containing corifollitropin alfa in the frame of the 
centralised procedure submitted in accordance with Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation 
(EC)  No  726/2004  and  with  Article  8(3)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended  (i.e.  a  complete  and 
independent application with administrative, quality, pre-clinical and clinical data). 
The  medicinal  product  Elonva  contains  the  active  substance  corifollitropin  alfa  (also  called  Org 
36268),  a  new  glycoprotein,  which  belongs  to  the  pharmaceutical  class  of  the  gonadotropins. 
corifollitropin  alfa  is  a  new  glycoprotein  produced  in  Chinese  Hamster  Ovary  (CHO)  cells  by 
recombinant DNA technology, using chemically defined cell culture medium without the addition of 
antibiotics,  human  or  animal  derived  proteins  (protein-free)  or  any  other  components  of  human  or 
animal origin. 
By adding the carboxy-terminal peptide of the β-subunit of hCG to the β-chain of human FSH (Figure 
1),  the  elimination  half-life  of  Elonva  was  almost  2-fold  increased  compared  to  recFSH  (33  hours, 
range 27-41 hours). 
Figure 1: Schematic representation of the design of Elonva (adapted from Thesis of Beckers N.G.M., Follicular 
and  Luteal  Phase  Aspects  of  Ovarian  Stimulation  for  In  Vitro  Fertilization,  2006,  Erasmus  University, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands). 
FSH  is  available  on  the  European  market  in  combination  with  LH  (hMG  =  human  menopausal 
gonadotropin) and in purified forms derived from human menopausal urine or as recombinant peptide 
produced by cultured cells.1,2  
The  currently  approved  recombinant  follicle  stimulating  hormones  (FSH)  in  Europe  are  Puregon 
(follitropin  beta)  and  Gonal-F  (follitropin  alfa),  which  have  additional  indications  besides  the 
indication“Controlled Ovarian Stimulation in medically assisted reproduction programs”. Please refer 
to the EPAR for these products for more detailed information. 
Corifollitropin alfa is proposed for ART programs only.  
1  Nugent  D,  Vandekerckhove  P,  Hughes  E,  et  al.  Gonadotrophin  therapy  for  ovulation  induction  in  subfertility  associated 
with polycystic ovary syndrome. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2000;(4):CD000410. 
2  Bayram  N,  van  Wely  M,  van  Der  Veen  F.  Recombinant  FSH  versus  urinary  gonadotrophins  or  recombinant  FSH  for 
ovulation  induction  in  subfertility  associated  with  polycystic  ovary  syndrome.  Cochrane  Database  Syst  Rev  2001 
;(2):CD002121. 
5/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Due  to  its  prolonged  duration  of  FSH  activity,  a  single  subcutaneous  injection  of  the  recommended 
dose of corifollitropin alfa may replace the first seven injections of any daily (rec)FSH preparation in a 
COS treatment cycle. 
Secretion of gonadotropins (LH and FSH) is controlled by GnRH (gonadotropin releasing hormone) 
produced  in  the  hypothalamus.  FSH,  like  LH,  is  synthesized  and  secreted  by  the  anterior  pituitary 
gland.  FSH is essential for normal female gamete growth and maturation, and normal gonadal steroid 
production.  
In  the  first  protocols  used  in  assisted  reproduction  techniques  (ART;  standard  “long”  protocol),  a 
GnRH  agonist  was  used  to  suppress  the  hypothalamic-pituitary  ovarian  axis  for  controlled  ovarian 
stimulation  and  additionally  to  prevent  a  premature  LH  surge.  When  desensibilisation  has  been 
achieved,  controlled  ovarian  stimulation  with  gonadotropins  (FSH  alone  or  FSH  +  LH)  is  started, 
while the use of the GnRH agonist is continued until the time when hCG will be administered.  
Another  option  for  ovarian  stimulation  in  ART  is  the  use  of  a  GnRH  antagonist.  In  contrast  to  the 
long-acting  agonists  that  first  stimulate  and  later  inhibit  pituitary  gonadotropin  secretion  by 
desensitizing  gonadotrophs  to  GnRH  via  receptor  down-regulation,  the  antagonists  block  the  GnRH 
receptor in a dose-dependent competitive fashion and have no flare effect; gonadotropin suppression is 
almost immediate. 
Corifollitropin  alfa  is  recommended  for  use  in  a  GnRH-antagonist  protocol.  As  stimulation  starts  in 
the  early  follicular  phase  of  the  natural  cycle,  the  duration  of  stimulation  is  shorter  and  less  FSH  is 
used as compared to the standard ART protocol with a GnRH agonist. A schematic presentation of the 
dosing schedule is given in Figure 2: 
Figure 2. Corifollitropin alfa /GnRH antagonist treatment regimen, as used in the pivotal Phase III studies 38819 
and 107012 
Note:  The  duration  of  FSH  treatment  and  the  day  of  hCG  administration  were  dependent  on  the  follicular 
response as assessed by ultrasonography. 
The  proposed  therapeutic  indication  of  corifollitropin  alfa  was  “Controlled  Ovarian  Stimulation 
(COS) for the development of multiple follicles and pregnancy in women participating in an Assisted 
Reproductive Technology (ART) program.” 
The approved indication is: 
“Controlled Ovarian Stimulation (COS) in combination with a GnRH antagonist for the development 
of multiple follicles in women participating in an Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) program” 
Treatment with corifollitropin alfa should be initiated under the supervision of a physician experienced 
in the treatment of fertility problems. 
Corifollitropin  alfa  is  supplied  in  pre-filled  syringes  as  a  solution  for  injection  (0.5  ml),  either 
containing 100  μg or 150 μg of corifollitropin alfa. In women with a body weight ≤ 60 kilograms  a 
single dose of 100 micrograms should be administered. In women with a body weight > 60 kilograms 
a  single  dose  of  150 micrograms  should  be  administered.  The  recommended  doses  of  corifollitropin 
6/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
alfa  have  only  been  established  in  a  treatment  regimen  with  a  GnRH  antagonist.  For  further 
information on the stimulation scheme please refer to section 4.2 of the SPC. 
Paediatric aspects 
With respect to the granted indication (COS) a waiver in all subsets of the paediatric population was 
granted on the grounds that clinical studies in COS cannot be expected to be of significant therapeutic 
benefit to or fulfil a therapeutic need of the paediatric population. 
Nevertheless  for  the  indication  “Treatment  of  hypogonadotrophic  hypogonadism”  studies  within  a 
paediatric subset will be performed. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
The  drug  substance  corifollitropin  alfa  is  a  glycoprotein  consisting  of  two  non-covalently  linked 
subunits: an alfa subunit and a beta subunit corresponding to that of human FSH extended with a C-
terminal peptide (CTP) corresponding to the beta subunit of hCG.  
Corifollitropin alfa is derived from a Chinese Hamster Ovary cell line (CHO-K1) and a two-tiered cell 
banking  system  of  Master  Cell  Bank  (MCB)  and  Working  Cell  Bank  (WCB)  was  developed  by  the 
applicant. 
Corifollitropin alfa is produced using a chemically-defined cell culture medium without the addition of 
antibiotics, proteins or any other components of human or animal origin.  
The fermentation process consists of pre-culture and culture steps followed by cell free clarification. 
Two production scales are proposed. 
Purification  from  the  cell  culture  harvest  is  performed  in  an  11-step  process  comprising  a  series  of 
chromatography steps, ultrafiltration/diafiltration steps, steps to inactivate and remove potential viral 
contaminants and a microfiltration step. 
The drug product manufacturing process includes thawing of the drug substance, formulation with the 
excipients and mixing, sterile filtration and fill-finish. 
Elonva is presented as a solution for subcutaneous injection in a pre-filled syringe for single use. Two 
dosage forms have been developed: 100 μg and 150 μg. 
Drug Substance  
Nomenclature 
INN Name: 
Compendial Name: 
USAN/JAN: 
Laboratory Code Name: 
CAS Registry Number: 
Other Names: 
corifollitropin alfa 
not applicable 
corifollitropin alfa 
Org 36286 
195962-23-3 
Follicle-stimulating  hormone  (human  alfa-subunit  reduced)  complex 
with  follicle-stimulating  hormone  (human  beta-subunit  reduced) 
fusion  protein  with  118-145  chorionic  gonadotropin  (human  beta 
subunit) 
7/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of the drug substance 
The  drug  substance  corifollitropin  alfa  is  a  glycoprotein  consisting  of  two  non-covalently  linked 
subunits:  an  alfa  subunit  of  92  amino  acids  which  is  common  to  different  glycoprotein  hormones 
(FSH,  LH,  TSH,  hCG)  and  a  beta  subunit  corresponding  to  that  of  human  FSH  (111  amino  acids) 
extended with CTP of the beta subunit of hCG (28 amino acids).  
The alfa and beta subunits each contain two N-linked glycosylation sites and disulphide bonds (five 
and six, respectively). The CTP part contains six O-linked glycosylation sites. 
The apparent molecular mass of corifollitropin alfa is 47 kDa. 
•  Manufacture 
All  manufacturing  steps,  Quality  Control  testing  and  release  of  the  drug  substance  are  performed  at 
N.V.  Organon,  Oss,  The  Netherlands.  This  site  is  EU-GMP  compliant  and  a  valid  manufacturing 
authorisation was provided. 
Development genetics 
The cell line producing corifollitropin alfa was generated by transfection of Chinese Hamster Ovary 
cells (CHO-K1) with an expression plasmid comprising DNA sequences which encode the alfa chain 
and the extended beta subunit, yielding CHO.FSH.CTP13 after cloning and sub-cloning steps. 
The CHO.FSH.CTP13 cell line was gradually adapted to grow in protein-free and animal component 
free  culture  medium.  The  adapted  clone  CHO.FSH.CTP13.PF.5  (“Research”  cell  line)  was  thus 
generated and used for the preparation of a MCB and WCB. 
Cell bank system 
A  two-tiered  cell  banking  system  of  MCB  and  WCB  has  been  developed  and  maintained  in 
accordance to cGMP and ICH guidelines. 
Seed  cells  corresponding  to  the  high-producing  clone  CHO.FSH.CTP13.PF.5  were  thawed, 
resuspended and cultured in a protein-free and animal component free culture medium, leading to the 
establishment of the MCB and WCB. Procedures followed for the preparation of MCB and WCB were 
appropriately described. An extensive range of tests has been performed for their characterisation, in 
accordance with ICH guidelines, including identity, viability, genetic stability and viral safety. 
Fermentation process 
Pre-culture is initiated from a single WCB vial and subsequent expansion in a culturing container, seed 
bioreactor  and  production  bioreactor,  successively.  A  production  bioreactor  is  then  inoculated. 
Following  the  production  phase,  the  bioreactor  is  harvested  using  cross-flow  filtration  or  dead  end 
filtration in order to remove cells from the cell culture supernatant. The resulting cell culture filtrate is 
then further purified. 
Purification process 
Purification  of 
concentration/diafiltration and virus removal/inactivation steps.  
free  culture 
supernatant 
the  cell 
is  performed  by  chromatographic, 
Manufacturing process development and process validation 
Throughout development, changes have been introduced in the drug substance manufacturing process, 
including the protein free cell line, formulation and manufacturing scale.  
A  comprehensive  process  manufacturing  history  was  provided,  showing  the  different  changes 
introduced, and the corresponding batches involved, as well as the use of these batches. 
8/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An  extensive  comparability  exercise  was  conducted  between  the  non  protein-free  process  and  the 
commercial protein-free process. 
Comparability studies were also conducted to support the scale-up of the fermentation process. 
The corifollitropin alfa manufacturing process was validated using data from both process scales with 
respect  to  consistency,  robustness  performance  and  quality  attributes.  It  was  demonstrated  that  the 
process  consistently  maintains  process  parameters  within  specified  ranges  and  meets  acceptance 
criteria for performance indicators. Overall, process validation was considered satisfactory. 
Characterisation 
A) Elucidation of structure and other characteristics: 
The  elucidation  of  the  structure  of  corifollitropin  alfa  was  mainly  based  on  complete  amino  acid 
sequence analysis, peptide mapping and analysis of the post-translational modifications (glycosylation 
and disulfide bridges). 
The amino acid sequence matches exactly the prediction based on the DNA nucleotide sequence and 
was further confirmed by the results for the amino acid composition and the N-terminal sequence. N-
terminal heterogeneity was shown comparable to that of recombinant FSH (follitropin beta). 
The  N-linked  glycan  structures  were  determined  to  be  bi-,  tri-  and  tetra-antennary  oligosaccharides 
with  sialic  heterogeneity,  as  expected  for  the  FSH  part.  The  O-linked  glycan  structures  were 
determined to be mono- and bi-antennary oligosaccharides with sialic heterogeneity, as expected for 
the hCG part. 
Five disulfide bridges in the alfa subunit and three of the beta subunit were determined, whereas three 
other  disulfide  bridges  were  inferred  from  the  crystal  structures  of  hCG  and  FSH.  No  other  post-
translational modifications are present. 
Conformational analysis of corifollitropin alfa confirmed structural resemblance to gonadotropins. 
B) Impurities: 
Potential  process-related  impurities  include  cell  substrate  derived  impurities  (host  cell  proteins,  host 
cell  DNA),  microbiological  contaminants,  column  leachables,  residual  solvents  and  additives 
(antifoaming agent). 
Potential product-related substances and impurities include deamidation products, oxidation products 
free subunits, oligomers (aggregation of two or more heterodimers), N-terminal residue loss. 
•  Specification 
The  drug  substance  release  specifications,  which  include  tests  for  identity,  purity  and  impurities, 
potency, quantity and general attributes, are acceptable and well justified. 
•  Stability 
The design of the stability program, including the testing intervals and temperature storage conditions, 
are in accordance with current ICH guidelines. The tests chosen are a subset of tests from the release 
specifications selected for stability-indicating properties.  
The stability data provided were within the specifications and support the proposed shelf life and the 
proposed storage conditions for the drug substance. 
9/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Drug Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
Elonva is presented as a solution for subcutaneous injection in a pre-filled syringe (type I hydrolytic 
glass) for single use. Each syringe contains 100 μg or 150 μg of corifollitropin alfa formulated with 
sodium  citrate,  sucrose,  polysorbate  20,  methionine,  sodium  hydroxide,  hydrochloric  acid  and  water 
for injections. These excipients are commonly used in formulating protein pharmaceuticals. 
The syringe is assembled into an automatic safety system to prevent needle stick injuries after use and 
is packed together with a sterile injection needle. Each pre-filled syringe contains 0.5 ml solution for 
injection. 
Throughout  drug  product  development  changes  have  been  introduced,  including  a  new  formulation 
and primary container. The new formulation, corresponding to the commercial formulation, was used 
for Phase I, the Phase II dose finding study and all Phase III studies.  
•  Adventitious Agents 
No human-/animal-derived raw materials were used in the preparation of the MCB or WCB and in the 
manufacture  of the drug substance and drug product. Only cells prior to the Research cell line were 
cultivated with foetal calf serum (FCS) sourced from USA, Canada and Australia. Data were provided 
to  support  the  use  of  FCS.  MCB,  WCB  and  host  cell  lines  were  tested  for  bovine  viruses  and  no 
contamination was detected. Safety concerning TSE is considered sufficiently assured. 
Control  of  potential  contamination  by  other  non-viral  adventitious  agents  (mycoplasma,  bioburden, 
endotoxins) was considered adequate. 
Extensive  virus  screening  was  conducted.  The  MCB,  WCB,  post-production  cells  and  bulk  harvest 
were found to be free from infectious adventitious viral contamination. However, as expected for CHO 
cells,  the  transmission  electron  microscopy  investigation  showed  minimal  evidence  of  virus-like 
particles. 
The  purification  process  of  corifollitropin  alfa  includes  several  steps  for  inactivation/removal  of 
viruses.  Viral  safety  has  been  sufficiently  demonstrated.  To  further  confirm  the  robustness  of  the 
process, the applicant will undertake post-approval studies. 
•  Manufacture of the product 
The  drug  product  is  manufactured  at  Vetter  Pharma-Fertigung,  GmbH  &  Co.  KG,  Ravensburg, 
Germany. Assembly with the safety device and secondary packaging of the drug product is carried out 
at Organon (Ireland) Ltd., Swords, Ireland. Quality control testing and batch release are performed at 
Organon (Ireland) Ltd., Swords, Ireland or NV Organon, Oss, The Netherlands. 
The frozen purified drug substance is thawed, formulated with the different excipients, sterile filtered 
and aseptically filled into sterile glass syringes which are then closed with a plunger and a tip cap. 
Process validation was performed and provided a documented, thorough understanding of the ability 
of  the  manufacturing  process  to  consistently  and  reliably  meet  predetermined  product  specifications 
and quality attributes. 
•  Product specifications 
Appropriate specifications have been developed. The drug product specifications contain tests for 
identity, impurities, potency, quantity and general attributes. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Real-time and accelerated stability studies were initiated in accordance with ICH guidelines and per 
protocol to monitor the time-temperature stability of cGMP lots of drug product. On the basis of the 
10/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
data provided, the approvable shelf life for the drug product is 24 months at 2-8°C, or 23 months at 2-
8°C followed by 1 month at room temperature (below 25°C). 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The source, history and generation of the cell substrate, including generation and characterisation of 
the MCB and WCB have been well described and documented. 
The upstream and downstream processes have been adequately described. In-process controls (IPCs) 
are in place and are generally considered adequate.  
Process validation for the drug substance is considered satisfactory. Issues raised during the evaluation 
procedure on the validation and control strategy were adequately addressed by the applicant.  
Impurities have been adequately described and their clinical relevance elucidated and documented by 
the applicant. The results are considered acceptable. 
The  Major  Objections  raised  during  the  assessment  regarding  the  characterisation  of  the  drug 
substance and validation of an analytical method used to control the drug substance and drug product 
were satisfactorily addressed by the applicant. 
Most of the issues identified during the evaluation procedure on the control of the drug substance and 
setting  of  the  specifications  also  applied  to  the  drug  product.  All  the  concerns  were  considered 
resolved.  
The applicant has revised the drug substance and drug product specifications; the acceptance criteria 
of some tests have been tightened and are acceptable. 
Viral  safety  and  the  safety  concerning  other  adventitious  agents  including  TSE  has  been  adequately 
assured. To further confirm the robustness of the process, the applicant will undertake post-approval 
studies. 
The drug product manufacturing process is straightforward and has been sufficiently described. IPCs 
are in place and are generally considered well chosen and adequate. 
Based on the stability data provided, the proposed shelf life for the drug substance and the proposed 
shelf life of 24 months (2-8°C) (or 23 months at 2-8°C followed by 1 month at room temperature) for 
the drug product were considered acceptable.  
Except  for  a  number  of  points,  which  will  be  addressed  as  part  of  the  post-approval  follow-up 
measures, the overall Quality of Elonva is considered acceptable. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
All  pivotal  toxicology  studies  and  safety  pharmacology  studies,  including  toxicokinetics  and 
immunogenicity monitoring, have been performed according to Good Laboratory Practice (GLP). 
The applicant sought Scientific Advice on the non-clinical development program of toxicology, safety 
pharmacology and pharmacokinetic studies.  
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Corifollitropin  alfa  is  a  new  biological  entity.  It  is  a  gonadotropin  designed  as  a  Sustained  Follicle 
Stimulant with a prolonged half-life time, but similar pharmacological features as compared to Follicle 
11/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stimulating  Hormone  (FSH).  The  carboxy-terminal  peptide  (CTP)  of  the  β-subunit  of  human 
chorionic  gonadotropin  (hCG)  was  fused  to  the  carboxy-terminus  of  the  β-chain  of  human  FSH, 
resulting in corifollitropin alfa (Org 36286). 
The in vitro characterisation of the pharmacodynamics of Org 36286 showed a comparable affinity to 
the FSH receptor, a lower signal transduction, but still comparable activity in a mouse follicle culture, 
when compared with rec-hFSH.  
The  specific  bioactivity  for  inducing  ovarian  weight  augmentation  in  immature  rats  following  six 
subcutaneous FSH injections (Steelman-Pohley assay) was approximately 2-fold higher for Org 36286 
than for rec-hFSH. The Steelman-Pohley assay shows  that similar ovarian weights were  achieved at 
lower  doses  of  Org 36286  than  of  Rec-hFSH.  However,  the  Org 36286  curve  seems  not  to  have 
reached  a  maximum  in  the  assay.  It  is  therefore  not  possible  to  estimate  the  consequences  of  this 
difference between Org 36286 and Rec-hFSH for clinical practice. In the ovarian weight augmentation 
test following single dose FSH administration, ED50 was approximately 1.5 times higher for rec-hFSH 
than  for  Org 36286.  In  this  test,  a  plateau  was  reached  for  ovarian  weight,  at  a  higher  level  after 
Org 36286 administration than after rec-hFSH administration. In 2 superovulation assays in immature 
rats, Org 36286 induced at equal doses higher ovarian weights than rec-hFSH (up to approximately 4 
times  higher  specific  bioactivity).  The  maximal  increase  in  oocytes/rat  caused  by  Org 36286  was 
either  approximately  4  times  higher  or  at  the  same  level,  but  was  reached  at  a  4  times  lower  dose 
compared to rec-hFSH. 
In vitro activity was somewhat lower for Org 36286 compared to rec-hFSH, whereas in vivo activity 
was higher. This is likely associated with the difference in pharmacokinetics between Org 36286 and 
rec-hFSH, causing hormone levels to be higher for a longer time after administration of Org 36286.  
Early non-clinical studies were performed with non-protein-free Org 36286 ( i.e. produced in medium 
containing  foetal  calf  serum).  Later  on  FCS  was  removed  from  the  culture  medium  used  for  the 
production  of  Org 36286.  This  “protein-free”  drug  substance  used  in  later  studies  and  used  for  the 
production of corifollitropin alfa is designated Org 36286pf. Pharmacological activity of Org 36286pf 
and  non-protein-free  Org 36286  (Org 36286)  was  comparable  in  the  in  vitro  receptor  binding  and 
bioactivity  assays  and  in  the  Steelman-Pohley  assay.  In  the  superovulation  assay  in  which  the  test 
substance is administered with shorter intervals, uterine and ovarian weight augmentation was similar 
for  Org 36286pf  and  Org 36286.  The  number  of  ova  was  similar  or  only  slightly  higher  for 
Org 36286pf up to the dose at which the maximum level was reached. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
To  monitor  possible  side  effects  of  Org 36286  the  compound  was  evaluated  in  an  in  vitro  receptor 
binding screening system (Novascreen®, Hanover, Maryland, USA). This system comprised validated 
receptor, enzyme, ion channel, transporter, and cell-based screening assays. 
No  significant  in  vitro  binding  was  observed  to  a  range  of  receptors  and  ion  channels.  Org 36286 
showed  no  relevant  binding  affinity  to  the  LH  receptor  or  activation  of  the  LH  receptor  or  TSH 
receptor. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Cardiovascular safety was investigated in the hERG channel assay and in an in vivo dog study. In the 
hERG channel assay, Org 36286 did not cause inhibition of the potassium tail current (IKr) in stably 
hERG-transfected  human  embryonic  kidney  cells,  at  concentrations  up  to  approximately  1000  times 
the human Cmax. In the cardiovascular safety pharmacology assay in dogs, no treatment-related effects 
were observed at exposures which were more than 200 times the human exposure, based on AUC and 
Cmax.  No  other  safety  pharmacology  studies  were  performed.  This  is  acceptable,  since  the 
pharmacological action of Org 36286 is that of FSH, which is in principle well-known. 
12/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No  studies  on  pharmacodynamic  drug  interactions  were  performed.  This  is  acceptable,  as  the 
pharmacological  action  and  potential  interactions  of  Org 36286  and  the  interplay  of  FSH  with  other 
effectors on the HPG-axis are well-known.  
Pharmacokinetics 
In general, following sc administration in animals, Org 36286 showed linear kinetics and a relatively 
slow  absorption  and  elimination  phase.  The  volume  of  distribution  is  low  in  animals  and  man,  i.e. 
close to the physiological volume of blood plus that of extracellular water. The absolute bioavailability 
of Org 36286 after subcutaneous dosing in a representative clinical formulation is estimated to be  > 
85%  in  the  dog,  approximately  40%  in  the  rat,  and  approximately 58%  in  humans.  Due  to  the  CTP 
addition, Org 36286 shows a significantly longer plasma elimination half-life as compared to that of 
rec-hFSH  in  women  (ratio  of  1.6-1.7).  A  comparable  ratio  was  found  in  the  rat  and  the  dog.  The 
comparison in animals was based on historical data with rec-FSH. 
In rats, after relatively slow absorption from the sc injection site, Org 36286 is taken up into the blood 
and distributed mainly to the ovary and the kidney. The urinary route is the major excretion pathway 
of  Org 36286  confirming  the  central  role  of  the  kidney  in  clearing  relatively  small  peptides  and 
gonadotropins,  including  FSH  and  hCG.  In  addition,  the  identified  α-  and  β-subunits,  including  the 
CTP-part of Org 36286, as well as intact Org 36286 in urine show that the clearance resembles that of 
FSH and partly of hCG (which shows more extensive catabolism). In analogy with FSH and hCG/LH, 
this  catabolism  is  likely  to  occur  in  the  kidney  after  glomerular  filtration  and  proximal  tubular 
resorption. No catabolism in rat plasma occurred. No binding of Org 36286 to melanin or uptake in the 
brain was found. 
Pharmacokinetic comparability studies of Org 36286 non-pf versus pf in rats were poorly performed. 
Comparison  in  dogs  was  based  on  data  from  different  studies,  mostly  using  the  i.m.  route  of 
administration  instead  of  the  sc  route.  Although  on  the  average  pf  and  non-pf,  or  100L  scale 
manufacture  and  500L  scale  manufacture  batches  showed  similar  pharmacokinetic  behaviour  in 
animals,  significant  differences  between  individual  batches  were  observed  in  rats,  with  typical 
differences  in  Cmax  or  AUC  of  20-25%.  A  difference  in  glycosylation/sialation  patterns  is  a  likely 
cause for the observed pharmacokinetic differences. Comparison with the pharmacokinetic behaviour 
of the same batches in humans showed that batch-to-batch variability in pharmacokinetic behaviour in 
humans  is  more  limited  (approximately  10%  C.V.)  This  variation  is  limited  when  compared  with 
interindividual  variation  and  has  relatively  little  effect  on  the  pharmacodynamic  outcome;  therefore 
the  observed  pharmacokinetic  batch-to-batch  variability  in  rats  is  of  limited  clinical  relevance. 
Nevertheless, 
in 
glycosylation/sialation  patterns,  which  potentially  can  affect  pharmacokinetic  behaviour,  should  be 
kept to a minimum.  
in  humans,  batch-tot-batch  variability 
risk  of  OHSS 
to  minimise 
the 
Toxicology 
Org 36286  (non-pf  material)  was  tested  in  general  toxicology,  genetic  toxicology,  reproduction 
toxicology, and local tolerance studies using the mouse, rat, rabbit and dog, to support the safety of the 
clinical indication infertility/Controlled Ovarian Stimulation (COS). 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Acute  single  dose  toxicity  studies  using  iv  and  sc  routes  in  rat  did  not  show  any  drug-related  toxic 
effect. In the acute single dose study in mice (103 µg/kg sc) two animals died 12 days after treatment 
showing on examination hepatocellular necrosis. This finding was thought to be coincidental as it has 
been  observed  previously  in  historical  controls  of  this  species/strain;  however,  a  treatment-related 
effect can not be ruled out. In subsequent repeated dose toxicity studies in rats and dogs no mortality 
has been observed.  
13/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Repeat dose toxicity  
Repeated dose toxicology studies with administration periods of 13 weeks up to 39 weeks in rats and 
dogs showed primarily the expected exaggerated pharmacological effects on the reproduction organs. 
Other  effects  seen  in  female  rats  were  increase  of  thyroid  and  adrenal  gland  weight,  and  in  female 
dogs  atrophic  changes  in  the  adrenal  cortex,  thrombocytopenia  and  other  haematological  changes. 
These effects are considered to be the result of secondary hormonal responses by sex steroids and are 
consistent  with  those  observed  for  rec-hFSH  (follitropin  beta,  Puregon®/  Follistim®).  The  adverse 
effects  on  off-target  organs  were  observed  with  systemic  exposures  below  the  anticipated  clinical 
exposure  in  humans.  However,  the  adverse  effects  were  seen  in  repeated  dose  studies,  whereas  in 
humans  corifollitropin  alfa  will  be  given  as  a  single  dose.  Therefore  the  adverse  effects  seen  in 
animals are considered to have little relevance for the clinical use of corifollitropin alfa in humans. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Org 36286 did not show genotoxic potential in routine genotoxicity tests.  
•  Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity  has  not  been  investigated.  This  is  accepted  in  view  of  the  single  dose  posology. 
Extended stimulation (13 weeks) of gonadal tissue by corifollitropin for 13 weeks in female dogs led 
to a luteoma  in one animal. Other, occasionally observed incidences of proliferative lesions (at 2.87 
and 8.2 µg.kg-1.2 days-1) are well-known estrogen-related cases in the dog (eg. urothelial hyperplasia; 
ovarian  mesothelial  hyperplasia;  mesothelial  hyperplasia  of  the  uterus),  that  were  also  found 
incidentally for rec-hFSH (Puregon®) in the dog toxicity study (at ~2.5 and ~5 µg.kg-1.day-1). 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
The conducted rat and rabbit reproduction toxicology studies were tailor-made to mimic the period of 
Org 36286  exposure  relative  to  conception  and  pregnancy,  however  they  may  still  be  considered  a 
worst  case  approach.  Dosing  of  Org 36286  resulted  in  the  expected  stimulation  of  the  ovaries  and 
induced  an  increased  incidence  of  super-ovulation  as  well  as  pre-  and  post-implantation  loss  in  rats 
and rabbits. The biological ceiling value of implantation and growth as observed in the animal species 
causing embryonic loss is not representative for the human situation of COS (prior to IVF), where one 
or a limited number of fertilized ova are eventually transferred to the uterus.  
In rats, at super-ovulatory doses, Org 36286 did not cause teratogenicity when dosed prior to mating, 
during mating, and early pregnancy. In addition, dosing (at doses producing approximately twice the 
systemic  exposure  in  humans)  during  early  pregnancy  in  rabbits  was  also  not  indicative  for  a 
teratogenic potential. When dosed prior to mating (at relatively low doses) in the rabbit, teratogenicity 
was  observed  associated  with  super-ovulation  only.  For  Humegon®  (an  established  urinary 
gonadotrophin product on the market for COS), a similar teratogenic effect was found predominantly, 
but not exclusively, in relation to a super-ovulatory response in a comparative study. Therefore, this 
abnormal embryo-foetal development associated with a super-ovulatory response is considered to be 
irrespective of the super-ovulation inducing gonadotrophic agent.  
•  Toxicokinetic data 
Rat 13 weeks subcutaneous toxicity study 
In  the  rat  13 weeks  subcutaneous  toxicity  study,  serum  levels  tended  to  increase  proportional  to  the 
increasing  dose.  Serum  levels  in  the  low  dose  group  increased  upon  repeated  dosing  whereas  in  the 
mid and high dose groups serum levels were comparable for both single and multiple dosing. There 
seems to be no difference in kinetic behaviour between male and female rats. The elimination half-life 
was between 12 and 14 h. 
14/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 
Mean toxicokinetic parameters of Org 36286 in rats (13-wk) 
1.64 μg⋅kg-1 
Treatment group 
8.2 μg⋅kg-1 
41 μg⋅kg-1 
Kinetic 
value 
Exposure 
multiple 
(animal/human)#
Kinetic 
value
Exposure 
multiple 
(animal/human)#
Kinetic 
value 
Exposure 
multiple 
(animal/human)#
0.9 
3.8 
16.6 
n=20 
n=20 
1.0 
0.1 
535 
617 
13.7 
8.0 
n=20 
26 
115 
3399 
3794 
4.32 
63.8 
- 
- 
8.0 
Single dose 
Cmax (ng⋅mL-1) 
AUC0-48 (ng*h⋅mL-1) 
AUC0-∞ (ng*h⋅mL-1) 
t½ (h) 
tmax (h) 
Multiple dose (12 
weeks) 
Cmax (ng⋅mL-1) 
AUC0-48 (ng*h⋅mL-1) 
tmax (h) 
#  For  calculation  of  exposure  multiples  human  Cmax  (4.35  ng×mL-1)  en  AUC0-∞  (668  ng*h×mL-1)  values  are  based  on 
empirical estimates in a population PK analysis of data from Trial 38819 (report INT00056976). In bold: values at NOAEL 
Animal AUC values are based on composite sampling of 4-8 rats per time-point (10 time-points in total). Following multiple 
dose administration, animals with antibodies against Org 36286 (> 5% after day 65) were excluded for kinetic evaluation; n 
represents the number of rats without antibody formation against Org 36286.  t½ could only be reliably determined at 8.2 and 
41 µg.kg-1 after single dose. There was no gender difference in exposure, thus male and female kinetic data were evaluated 
collectively. - : not calculated. 
116 
3432 
12.0 
22.0 
5.2 
0.9 
1.4 
0.2 
n=11 
n=16 
22.8 
10.0 
10.0 
6.23 
n=3 
596 
154 
5.7 
5.1 
6.0 
27 
All  dosing  groups  contained  animals  with  percentages  of  anti-Org 36286  antibodies  (Ab)  exceeding 
25%. In males 10, 50 and 90% of the animals in the 1.6, 8.2 and 41 µg.kg-1 groups exhibited > 25% of 
Ab-titers. In females 20, 40 and 85% of the animals in the 1.6, 8.2 and 41 µg.kg-1 groups exhibited 
Ab-titers of >25%. The first detection of antibodies against Org 36286 was observed from day 37 in 
4/20  animals  dosed  at  1.6  µg.kg-1,  and  from  day  9  in  8/20  rats  dosed  at  8.2  µg.kg-1  and  35/40  rats 
treated at 41 µg.kg-1, and after increase to maximum levels in the assay sustained over the duration of 
the study. In 10 female and 10 male animals of the recovery group dosed at 41 µg.kg-1, anti-Org 36286 
antibody formation was also tested ca. 1 and 3 weeks after the last Org 36286 injection. Most rats still 
exhibited  Ab-titers  of  >25%,  except  for  5  male  rats  that  had  <  4%  titers  after  ample  3  weeks  of 
recovery. 
Due  to  induction  of  Ab-formation  over  time,  the  mean  serum  Org  36268  exposure  (24  h 
measurements)  of  the  41  µg.kg-1  group  declines  over  time.  However,  individual  non-Ab  responders 
have  high  serum  Org 36286  levels.  This  good  inverse  correlation  between  individual  Org 36286 
exposure and Ab-formation also exists in the 1.6 and 8.2 µg.kg-1 treatment groups. 
Representative  rat  samples  with  low  or  high  anti-Org 36286  binding  or  from  control  rats  were 
analyzed for their neutralizing capacity in an in vitro bioactivity assay. From these positive samples 
the ones with >25% anti-Org 36286 antibodies were able to neutralize Org 36286. However, samples 
with ≤ 25% anti-Org 36286 antibodies were not able to neutralize Org 36286. In addition, rat serum 
samples with neutralizing capacity had serum Org 36286 concentrations below LOQ. 
Dog 13 weeks subcutaneous toxicity 
After  single  and  multiple  subcutaneous  administration  for  approximately  11  weeks  of  either  1.025, 
2.87  or  8.2  µg•kg-1  Org 36286  to  male  and  female  dogs,  steady  state  levels  were  reached  after  two 
weeks  of  dosing.  After  a  single  dose,  dose  proportionality  was  found  in  males  whereas  in  females 
serum levels increased super-proportionally to the increasing dose. Multiple dosing showed a tendency 
towards proportional increase in serum levels with increasing dose for males and females.  
Serum levels from the high dose group after a single dose were higher in females than in males. On the 
contrary, multiple dosing tended to higher serum levels in males than in females. Org 36286 reached a 
plateau level around 10 h after dosing with almost no decline from 10 to 48 h. The elimination half-
life was estimated to be around 76 h. 
15/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Antibody formation 
None  of  the  male  dogs  dosed  at  1.0,  2.8  and  8.2  µg  Org 36286  per  kg  exhibited  anti-Org 36286 
antibodies  exceeding  25%.  In  addition,  only  one  male  dog  treated  at  1.0  µg.kg-1  showed  a  limited 
response (< 25% Ab-titer) at the end of the study (> day 75) without affecting Org 36286 levels.  
In  female  dogs  the  anti-Org 36286  antibody  incidence  and  titers  were  not  dose-related:  2/3,  0/3  and 
2/5 dogs of the 1.0, 2.8 and 8.2 µg Org 36286 per kg group, respectively, exhibited Ab-titers above 
25%. In addition, one female dosed at 8.2 µg.kg-1 showed a limited (< 25% titers) and transient Ab-
response. Exposure to Org 36268 only declined significantly when anti-Org 36286 Ab-titers exceeded 
25%, and reversed when anti-Org 36286 Ab-titers declined over time. 
•  Local tolerance  
A single dose local tolerance study in rats and observations from repeated dose toxicity studies in rats 
and dogs did not indicate any issue relevant for the clinical use of corifollitropin alfa. 
•  Other toxicity studies 
There  is  no  toxicological  issue  regarding  impurities.  With  respect  to  the  immunogenic  potential  no 
safety signal has been identified in clinical studies thus far. However, immunogenicity will need to be 
closely monitored, as it is clear from animal studies that antibodies against Org 36286, once formed 
can be cross-reactive to endogenous FSH and have neutralising capacity. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An  environmental  risk  assessment  has  not  been  performed,  since  corifollitropin  alfa  is  a  non-
chemically  modified  glycoprotein.  Proteins  are  exempted  from  the  scope  of  the  ERA  guideline  for 
obvious reasons. Proteins are ready biodegradable and non-persistent in the environment. Once they 
are released in the environment they will be quickly broken down. Also for pharmacological activity 
the  structure  of  proteins  needs  to  be  strictly  conserved;  this  can  only  be  achieved  under  specific 
storage conditions, which will be different from the variable conditions in the environment. Moreover, 
proteins  will  due  to  their  nature  (especially  size)  not  be  absorbed  by  organisms  in  the  environment 
through skin contact. Yet, should corifollitropin be entering through the oral route, it will be digested 
by enteric enzymatic activity, and therefore will lose its pharmacological endocrine activity. Therefore 
it  is  not  expected  that  corifollitropin  alfa  when  released  in  the  environment  will  have  a  biological 
endocrine effect on the organisms living in the environment. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspect 
As  expected,  (neutralizing)  antibodies  against  Org 36286  have  been  observed  in  animal  toxicity 
studies. The formation of antibodies in animals was not predictive for the human situation where no 
antibody  formation  was  noted  in  over  2000  patients  treated  with  Org 36286.  In  animals  without  or 
with low or transient antibody formation, clear exposure multiples of serum Org 36286 levels existed 
between  animals  and  man.  Paradoxical  findings  in  rats  such  as  absence  of  corpora  lutea  and 
developing  follicles  (associated  with  an  increase  in  interstitial  cell  mass  and  leading  to  an  almost 
atrophic  appearance  of  ovaria)  were  associated  with  hypertrophy  of  pituitary  gland  cells.  These 
findings can be related to exposure dynamics due to interfering immunogenicity. There was a nearly 
1:1 correlation between the presence of antibodies against Org 36286 and the absence of Org 36286, 
because it was bound to the circulating antibodies against Org 36286. The hypertrophic response in rat 
pituitary is likely the result of reduced endogenous FSH/estradiol levels due to cross-reactivity of anti-
Org 36286 antibodies to endogenous FSH. 
16/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The rationale for developing Elonva is to replace the first 7 injections of any daily FSH preparation in 
a  COS  treatment  cycle  with  a  single  subcutaneous  injection  of  the  recommended  dose  of 
corifollitropin  alfa,  and  thus  improve  patient’s  convenience.  Although  fewer  injections  can  be 
regarded as favourable the benefits of the Elonva regimen as such could not be measured in the pivotal 
Phase  III  studies,  as  the  studies  had  a  double-blind,  double-dummy  design,  and  consequently  the 
benefits of the corifollitropin alfa regimen as such could not be measured. 
Dose-finding  was  based  on  1  Phase  II  trial  (38826)  and  subsequent  PK-PD  modelling  (study  report 
INT00073698). Benefit-risk assessment was based on two pivotal Phase III clinical studies: one study 
investigates women with a body weight > 60 and ≤ 90 kg (38819), whereas the other study included 
women with a body weight ≤ 60 kg (107012). All these studies made use of a GnRH antagonist for 
pituitary down-regulation. 
Scientific Advice was sought from the FDA and the EMEA, but from the Member States. Based on 
this scientific advice several adjustments were made to the clinical development: 
Further to the EMEA Scientific Advice, a lower dose (100 μg) for women weighing 60 kg or less was 
developed,  and  the  study  protocol  allowed  flexibility  in  gonadotropin  dosing  as  of  Day  6  of 
stimulation. The number of oocytes was included as a co-primary efficacy endpoint, with predefined 
equivalence margins (in addition to the primary efficacy parameter pregnancy rate as required by the 
FDA). The number of patients in the repeated exposure trial (38825) was increased. 
The  EMEA  also  indicated  that  since  the  expected  advantage  of  corifollitropin  alfa  over  Puregon  is 
merely  convenience  of  dosing,  the  evidence  of  comparable  efficacy  and  safety  will  need  to  be 
exceptionally compelling. 
Further to the FDA Scientific Advice, the applicant changed the design of the pivotal Phase III trials 
(38819,  107012)  to  double-blind,  double  dummy.  For  trial  38819,  the  ongoing  pregnancy  rate  was 
adopted  as  the  primary  efficacy  parameter  endpoint  and  a  predefined  limit  of  -8%  was  set  for  the 
lower bound of the two-sided 95% confidence interval. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Nevertheless,  the  CHMP  has  requested  a  routine  GCP  inspection  of  the  clinical  Phase  III  study 
107012:  A  phase  III,  randomized,  double-blind,  active-controlled,  equivalence  clinical  trial  to 
investigate the efficacy and safety of a single injection of 100 μg Org 36286 (corifollitropin alfa) to 
induce multifollicular development for controlled ovarian stimulation (COS) using daily recombinant 
FSH (recFSH) as a reference.   
Two  investigator  sites  and  the  site  of  the  sponsor  were  inspected.  At  these  two  investigator  sites  80 
patients of the total of 396 randomized patients (20%) had been randomized. No critical but several 
major findings were revealed by the inspection; the clinically relevant findings pertained to: 
1) possible underreporting of OHSS : The overall incidence of OHSS might have been underreported 
in trial 107012, due to the fact that women in case of a risk for OHSS were allowed to be withdrawn 
from  the  study  and  because  of  the  more  strict  definition  of  mild  OHSS.  In  some  studies  in  public 
literature incidences for mild OHSS have been observed of 20-23%3, while in trial 107012 the overall 
3  Golan  A,  Ron-El  R,  Herman  A  et  al.  Ovarian  hyperstimulation  syndrom:  an  update  review.  Obstet  Gynecol  Surv 
1989:44:430-440. 
17/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
incidence  of  OHSS  was  6.7%  in  the  corifollitropin  alfa  group  and  4.7%  in  the  recFSH  (Puregon) 
group. 
2) possible underreporting of Ectopic Pregnancy : ‘ectopic pregnancy’ might have been underreported, 
and might have been classified as ‘missed abortion’ instead. 
3) lack of clarity with regard to the assay to detect anti-corifollitropin alfa antibodies (Please refer to 
the discussion under section Clinical Safety).  
All points were satisfactorily addressed by the applicant. 
The  inspectors`  observation  regarding  OHSS  is  not  a  reason  for  major  concern  for  the  following 
reasons: 
- 
In the SmPC of Puregon it is stated that in clinical trials of Puregon the incidence of OHSS 
was approximately 4%, which is in line with the 4.7% found in trial 107012. 
There  were  only  7  subjects,  who  were  discontinued  due  to  ‘risk  for  OHSS’  or  ‘too  high 
ovarian response’. The fact that women were allowed to be withdrawn from the study due to 
‘risk for OHSS’ did therefore not result in a lower total incidence of OHSS. 
The  definition  of  mild  OHSS  was  slightly  modified  compared  to  the  WHO  criteria  (1973). 
This  modification  was  submitted  to  the  IEC/IRB  (and/or  Regulatory  Authorities)  for  review 
and  a  favourable  opinion  was  obtained.  This  change  is  also  considered  acceptable  by  the 
CHMP. The same criteria were applied in all Phase III studies. 
- 
- 
-  Another  factor  that  might  have  resulted  in  the  lower  overall  incidence  of  OHSS  was  that  a 
specific  patient  population  was  included.  All  subjects  who  had  a  risk  of  developing  OHSS 
were  excluded,  such  as  1)  subjects  with  a  history  of  ovarian  hyper-response  or  OHSS;  2) 
subjects with a history of/or current polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS); and 3) subjects with 
more than 20 basal antral follicles <11 mm (both ovaries combined) as measured on USS in 
the early follicular phase (menstrual cycle day 2-5). 
The  exact  percentage  of  OHSS  has  been  stated  at  the  beginning  of  SPC  section  4.8  (See  also  the 
discussion under Clinical safety). 
Furthermore in view of the specific symptoms of ectopic pregnancy, it is not likely to be missed or to 
be  misdiagnosed  as  missed  abortion.  There  were  only  2  cases  of  missed  abortion,  both  in  the 
corifollitropin  alfa  group.  In  the  worst  case  scenario  these  2  cases  should  have  been  classified  as 
‘ectopic pregnancy’, which would have resulted in an incidence of ectopic pregnancy of 4.1% in the 
corifollitropin alfa group. This is still comparable with the incidence of 3.3% in the rec-FSH group, 
and therefore the CHMP agreed that there is no reason for a product-specific concern. 
The  Inspectors  observed  no  shortcomings  that  would  have  had  a  structural  impact  on  the  overall 
validity  and/or  credibility  of  the  data  submitted  for  this  specific  application.  The  CHMP  concluded 
that the data is acceptable for the evaluation in the process of this MAA. Remedial actions by the sites 
and by the sponsor, to safeguard a GCP-compliant conduct of future clinical trials have been taken, as 
detailed  in  the  follow  up  response  of  the  sponsor  to  the  final  GCP  inspection  report.  The 
implementation of any corrective actions will be followed up according to the relevant procedures as 
part  of  the  GCP  inspection  programme;  this  follow-up  is  not  the  subject  of  this  MAA  as  it  is  not 
product specific. 
18/43 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
In ten clinical trials pharmacokinetic (PK) data with corifollitropin alfa were obtained (see Table 2). In 
accordance  with  the  anticipated  single  dose  regimen  for  COS,  only  single  dose  regimens  of 
corifollitropin alfa were evaluated. Single dose levels ranged between 7.5 µg and 240 µg Org 36286. 
Concentrations of corifollitropin alfa in human serum were determined using a solid phase  enzyme-
immunoassay (EIA). The performed assays are validated and sufficient to measure corifollitropin alfa 
well. 
Table 2  
Overview of Clinical studies involving pharmacokinetics of corifollitropin alfa 
Study Ref. 
No. 
Short Title 
Dose, route and 
formulation  
corifollitropin alfa 
15 µg, SC, non-pf  
Subjects 
13 healthy male 
Phase I trial in hypogonadotropic hypogonadal male subjects 
Phase I trial in healthy female volunteers 
15-120 µg, SC, non-pf 
24 healthy female 
Bioequivalence trial of pf versus non-pf formulation  
120 µg, SC, non-pf and pf 
16 healthy female 
Absolute bioavailability trial 
100 µg, SC and IV, pf 
16 healthy female 
Phase II feasibility trial to induce monofollicular ovulation 
7.5-60 μg, SC, non-pf  
55 patients 
Phase II feasibility trial to induce multifollicular growth 
120-240 μg,  SC,  non-pf 
80 patients 
Phase II dose-finding trial to induce multifollicular growth 
60-180 μg, SC, pf 
100 μg, SC, pf 
315 patients 
268 patients 
Phase III equivalence trial of 100 μg corifollitropin alfa to 
induce multifollicular growth in subjects with body weight 
≤ 60 kg 
Phase III non-inferiority trial of 150 μg corifollitropin alfa to 
induce multifollicular growth in subjects with body weight 
> 60kg 
Phase II feasibility trial to induce multifollicular growth in a 
long GnRH agonist protocol 
150 μg, SC, pf 
755 patients 
100-150 μg, SC, pf 
50 patients 
38801 
38802 
38823 
38803 
38805 
38807 
38826 
107012 
38819 
38833 
Formulation: 
Corifollitropin  alfa  was  developed  as  a  solution  for  subcutaneous  injection.  During  early  clinical 
development,  Phase  I  and  early  Phase  II  trials  were  performed  with  drug  substance  produced  under 
non-protein free (non-pf) conditions. Later the production of drug substance was switched to protein-
free (pf) conditions (proposed market  formulation). Small differences in pharmacokinetic  profile are 
detected for the pf and non-pf formulation. While no difference in absorption is detected, half-life is 
longer  (15%)  and  clearance  smaller  for  the  pf  formulation  leading  to  an  increased  AUC  of 
approximately 20%. These differences are not considered to have any clinical complications especially 
as  the  pf  formulation  was  used  in  the  pivotal  Phase II  (38826)  and  Phase  III  trials  (38819;  107012; 
38825).  
Pharmacokinetic data analysis: 
Statistical methods used are adequate. Several population models were developed. The pivotal model 
is  the  pooled  POP-PK  (population  pharmacokinetic)  model  which  included  the  intent-to-treat 
population  and  included  most  subjects.  Sparse  pharmacokinetic  sampling  was  performed  for  study 
38833 in order to evaluate pharmacokinetics with population pharmacokinetic analysis.  
•  Absorption  
Following  subcutaneous  administration  of  corifollitropin  alfa,  absorption  was  slow  with  maximal 
concentrations being reached at 36 h (ranging 25-48 hours) after injection. The absolute bioavailability 
of  the  pf  formulation  after  subcutaneous  (SC)  injection  was  assessed  in  Study  38803  and  was 
estimated to be 58%. 
19/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Distribution 
As determined in trial 38803, the central volume of distribution (Vc) was 4.15 L and the steady state 
volume of distribution (Vss) was 9.4 L. No in vitro studies were performed using human biomaterial to 
study the pharmacology of corifollitropin alfa.  
•  Elimination 
In  healthy  volunteers,  corifollitropin  alfa  was  eliminated  from  the  body  with  a  half-life  of 
approximately  70  hours  (ranging  from  60-110  hours).  The  apparent  clearance  (CL/f)  was  0.25  L/h 
(ranging from 0.18-0.31 L/h) after SC administration and the actual clearance was 0.13 L/h after IV 
administration  of  corifollitropin  alfa.  Similarly  to  other  gonadotropins / hormonal  glycoproteins,  the 
excretion  of  corifollitropin  alfa  is  thought  to  occur  mainly  via  the  kidney  after  glomerular  filtration 
and  proximal  tubular  resorption.  No  human  ADME  studies  were  performed;  however  pre-clinical 
studies confirmed the metabolic fate of corifollitropin alfa to be similar to hCG and FSH.  
Corifollitropin  alfa  is  expected  not  to  be  a  substrate  of  cytochrome  P450  enzymes.  The  applicant 
supported this with a rat ADME study. Though in animal studies no breakdown fragments in plasma 
were  found,  it  can  not  be  excluded  that  no  corifollitropin  alfa  breakdown  fragments  are  present  in 
human  plasma.  Additional  identification  of  breakdown  fragments  in  humans  is  believed  to  be 
redundant  since  the  Org  36286  ADME  properties  follow  the  usual  physiological  metabolic  routes, 
distribution and elimination of gonadotrophins and the (anticipated) fate of the novel entity (CTP-part) 
has been demonstrated. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  corifollitropin  alfa  are  well  described  by  non-compartmental 
pharmacokinetics  and  population  pharmacokinetic  evaluation.  Pharmacokinetics  are  comparable 
between patients and pituitary suppressed volunteers of reproductive age indicating that the endocrine 
status  of  subjects  does  not  affect  the  pharmacokinetics  of  corifollitropin  alfa.  The  pharmacokinetic 
properties of corifollitropin alfa were observed to be independent of the administered dose over a wide 
range (7.5 – 240 μg).  
•  Special populations 
In  subjects  with  renal  insufficiency  the  excretion  of  corifollitropin  alfa  might  be  impaired,  as 
corifollitropin alfa is mainly excreted via the kidney. The pharmacokinetics of corifollitropin alfa have 
not  been  determined  in  renally  impaired  subjects.  Therefore,  the  applicant  proposes  that  the  use  of 
corifollitropin alfa in patients with renal insufficiency is not recommended, as is expressed in the SPC. 
Corifollitropin  alfa  is  not  recommended  for  patients  with  all  gradations  of  renal  impairment. 
Information  has been  added in section 4.2 of the SPC regarding renally impaired patients  in section 
4.2. The influence of (mild) renal impairment on the exposure of corifollitropin alfa is unknown but 
might be quite high, however it is agreed that as Org 36286 has a long elimination half-life of 70 hours 
and this might even be prolonged in patients with renal impairment, as Org 36286 is mainly renally 
excreted.  
Hepatic  metabolism  contributes  to  a  minor  extent  to  corifollitropin  alfa  metabolism.  The 
pharmacokinetic  profile  of  corifollitropin  alfa  is  therefore  unlikely  to  be  affected  by  hepatic 
impairment. However, as  no data is available in hepatic impaired patients caution is warranted. It is 
stated in section 5.2 of the SPC that no data are available in hepatically impaired patients. Information 
has also been added in section 4.2 of the SPC regarding hepatically impaired patients in section 4.2.  
In  a  pooled  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  of  corifollitropin  alfa  in  patients,  body  weight  and 
race  were  identified  as  determinants  for  drug  exposure.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  corifollitropin  alfa 
were  not  related  to  age  though  it  should  be  noted  that  the  age  range  in  the  population  studied  is 
narrow, i.e. 19 to 39 years.  
20/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exposure to corifollitropin alfa was similar for subjects with body weight ≤ 60 kg after treatment with 
100  μg  (Study  107012)  and  subjects  with  body  weight  > 60  kg  after  treatment  with  150  μg  (Study 
38819). 
The applicant provided an overview of differences in pharmacokinetics for women with body weight 
up  to  100  kg.  The  applicant  sufficiently  supported  the  chosen  difference  in  dosing  between  patients 
weighing  >60  kg  and  <60  kg.  It  is  agreed  that  no  additional  dosing  advice  is  necessary  for  patients 
with body weight over 80 kg, as over 60 kg the differences in pharmacokinetics are relatively smaller 
and therefore the impact of bodyweight is less relevant. 
It was shown that at similar body-weight, Asian subjects had approximately 30% lower exposure to 
corifollitropin alfa. The applicant discussed this observed difference sufficiently but could not identify 
the reason. The lower exposure in Asian subjects is not fully understood, but may be related to lower 
bioavailability  due  to  differences  in  body  composition.  However,  the  number  and  size  of  follicles 
induced  by  100 μg  corifollitropin  alfa  was  comparable  between  Asian  and  non-Asian  subjects.  Also 
other clinical parameters seem to be comparable. 
Corifollitropin  alfa  is  only  to  be  used  by  adult  female  subjects  of  fertile  age  for  treatment  of  COS. 
Hence, the compound has not been evaluated in paediatric or geriatric patient populations.  
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No  in  vitro  studies  were  performed  using  human  biomaterial  to  study  the  pharmacology  of 
corifollitropin alfa and no drug-drug interaction studies with corifollitropin alfa have been performed 
in vivo. No plasma protein binding studies have been conducted with corifollitropin alfa, because no 
plasma  protein  carriers  exist  for  FSH  or  gonadotropins.  Additionally,  corifollitropin  alfa  is  not  a 
substrate  of  cytochrome  P450  enzymes  and  does  not  bind  to  plasma  proteins;  no  interactions  with 
other  medicinal  products  are  anticipated.  The  excretion  of  corifollitropin  alfa  is  thought  to  occur 
mainly  via  the  kidney  through  glomerular  filtration  followed  by  proximal  tubular  resorption.  The 
applicant  sufficiently  addressed  the  possibility  of  drug-drug  interactions  on  the  level  of  renal 
excretion. Based on the currently available knowledge such interactions are not expected. 
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
No plasma protein binding studies have been conducted with corifollitropin alfa, because no plasma 
protein  carriers  exist  for  FSH  or  gonadotropins.  The  applicant  provided  a  literature  study  on  this 
subject.  
Pharmacodynamics 
Three  Phase  I  trials  were  performed,  one  trial  in  hypogonadotropic  hypogonadal  male  volunteers 
(38801)  and  two  trials  in  pituitary-suppressed  healthy  female  volunteers  (38802  and  38823).  In 
addition,  single  dose  administration  of  corifollitropin  alfa  was  studied  in  two  Phase  II  (38807  and 
38826)  and  two  Phase  III  trials  (107012,  38819)  in  patients  undergoing  Controlled  Ovarian 
Stimulation (COS). 
•  Mechanism of action 
Corifollitropin  alfa  is  designed  as  a  sustained  follicle  stimulant  with  the  same  pharmacodynamic 
profile  as  (rec)FSH,  but  with  a  markedly  prolonged  duration  of  FSH  activity.  Due  to  its  ability  to 
initiate and sustain multiple follicular growth for an entire week, a single subcutaneous injection of the 
recommended dose of corifollitropin alfa may replace the first seven injections of any daily (rec)FSH 
preparation in a COS treatment cycle. The long duration of FSH activity was achieved by adding the 
carboxy-terminal peptide of the β-subunit of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) to the β-chain of 
human FSH. 
Serum levels of the hormones inhibin-B, estradiol (E2), luteinising hormone (LH) and progesterone (P) 
were  measured  to  monitor  the  PD  effect  of  corifollitropin  alfa.  In  addition,  FSH  immunoreactivity 
21/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
levels were measured by a fluoro-immunoassay, which is not specific to corifollitropin alfa. The total 
FSH immunoreactivity of corifollitropin alfa, endogenous FSH and recombinant FSH was determined 
by this assay. Transvaginal ultrasound scans (USS) were performed to monitor follicular development. 
Inhibin-B is synthesized by granulosa cells in response to FSH and can therefore serve as a prognostic 
indicator in women undergoing COS. In addition, inhibin-B and estradiol have shown to be correlated 
with  the  number  of  follicles.  The  pharmacodynamic  parameters  measured  in  the  PD  studies  are 
acceptable. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Phase I pharmacology studies in healthy volunteers 
Studies 38801 and 38802 were conducted with the formulation produced under non-protein free (non-
pf) conditions, which is not the formulation-to-be-marketed. From 2002 onwards a switch was made to 
drug substance that was produced in a protein free (pf) medium. In the bioequivalence trial 38823, a 
dose of 120 μg of either formulation (pf versus non-pf) was compared.  
Serum inhibin-B concentrations 
•  Study 38801 in hypogonadotropic hypogonadal male subjects demonstrated that a single dose of 15 
μg non-pf corifollitropin alfa causes a mean increase in inhibin-B concentrations of 1.4-fold after 
144h compared to baseline. 
•  Study 38802 investigated the effect of different doses of non-pf corifollitropin alfa (15 μg, 40 μg, 
60 μg and 120 μg) in pituitary-suppressed female volunteers. In contrast to study 38801, in the 15 
μg  group  more  than  half  of  all  females  had  inhibin-B  levels  below  LLOQ  on  all  assessments. 
Increasing  the  corifollitropin  alfa  dose  resulted  in  higher  maximum  inhibin-B  levels.  Even  more, 
with increasing dose of corifollitropin alfa the maximum inhibin-B peak was reached later: Day 3, 
Day 4 and Day 6 for the 30, 60 and 120 μg groups, respectively. 
•  In the bioequivalence study 38823, the inhibin-B concentrations were higher after treatment with 
the  pf-formulation  (772  pg/mL)  compared  to  the  non-pf  formulation  (659.5  pg/mL),  and  the 
maximum inhibin-B peak appeared later for the pf- versus non-pf formulation (Day 7 vs. Day 6). 
Serum estradiol and testosterone concentrations 
•  No  relevant  changes  were  observed  in  serum  testosterone  or  estradiol  concentrations  in 
hypogonadotropic hypogonadal males. 
•  In  addition,  serum  estradiol  levels  were  close  to  the  Lower  Limit  of  Quantification  in  pituitary-
suppressed  females,  because  estradiol  synthesis  was  largely  impaired  due  to  profound  LH 
suppression by an oral contraceptive. 
Follicular development 
•  Transvaginal  ultrasound  scans  to  monitor  follicular  development  in  female  volunteers  showed  a 
dose-dependent  increase  in  the  number  and  the  size  of  the  follicles  as  shown  by  the  “maximum 
number  of  follicles  ≥5  mm”:  in  the  lowest  dose  groups  (10  and  30  μg  non-pf),  only  1.1  and  1.7 
follicles met this criterion, while in the 60 and 120 μg non-pf group a mean number of 17.3 and 
26.7 follicles had this diameter. 
•  In  accordance  with  the  higher  inhibin-B  concentrations  for  the  pf  formulation,  the  maximum 
number of follicles was higher after treatment with the 120 μg pf formulation compared to the 120 
μg non-pf formulation: 26.4 and 29.9, respectively.  
Delay in response 
The results indicate that administration of corifollitropin alfa results in the following consecutive PD 
responses, which start with an increase in inhibin-B, followed by an increase in follicle growth. This 
delay in response is dose-dependent. 
For instance, for the 120 μg dose: the corifollitropin alfa pf-peak was observed after 36 hours, versus 6 
days later for inhibin-B (144h), and the mean value on which the maximum number of follicles was 
observed was 9.4 days (226h). For the 60 μg dose: the corifollitropin alfa pf-peak was observed after 
22/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36 hours, versus 4 days later for inhibin-B (96h), and the mean value on which the maximum number 
of follicles was observed was 6.9 days (166h). 
Such a delay has also been observed in literature by Porchet et al.4 for 1-week daily administration of 
150 IU rFSH (Gonal-F®) in pituitary-suppressed female volunteers. The inhibin-B peak was observed 
after 168h, whereas the total follicular volume (> 10 mm) peaked at 264h. 
Clinical pharmacology data in Phase II and III pharmacology trials in patients 
Phase II study 38807 was performed with the non-pf formulation, whereas the other studies (38826, 
107012 and 38819) used the pf formulation. Therefore, the most important Phase II trial is 38826. 
Serum inhibin-B and estradiol (E2) concentrations 
•  Serum inhibin-B and E2 levels increased with increasing exposure to corifollitropin alfa. In Phase 
III clinical trials, in line with the higher FSH immunoreactivity levels in the early follicular phase, 
serum inhibin-B and E2 levels were higher on Stimulation Day 5 after treatment with corifollitropin 
alfa as compared to daily recFSH. On Day 8 and on the Day of hCG these hormone levels were 
comparable between the treatment groups in both Phase III trials. 
Serum LH and progesterone concentrations 
•  Median  serum  LH  and  progesterone  levels  were  observed  to  be  low  during  stimulation  with  the 
corifollitropin  alfa/ganirelix  regimen,  which  is  indicative  for  an  adequate  suppression  of 
endogenous gonadotropins throughout ovarian stimulation. 
•  In  the  Phase  III  trials,  a  difference  was  observed  in  incidence  of  premature  LH  surge  before  the 
start of the GnRH antagonist on stimulation day 5 between subjects stimulated with corifollitropin 
alfa  and  recFSH;  in  trial  107012  5.2%  vs.  3.9%,  respectively,  and  in  trial  38819  7.0%  vs.  0.8%, 
respectively.  Despite  this  difference,  the  percentage  of  subjects  with  embryo  transfer  was 
comparable  between  all  treatment  groups.  Also  for  women  with  a  premature  LH  rise  with  a 
concomitant  P  rise,  the  percentage  of  subjects  with  embryo  transfer  was  comparable  between  all 
treatment  groups.  In  addition,  pregnancy  rates  did  not  seem  to  be  compromised.  Therefore,  the 
clinical impact of the slightly higher incidence can be considered negligible. 
Follicular development 
•  A relationship was demonstrated between the dose of corifollitropin alfa and the number and size 
of recruited follicles (60 μg, 120 μg and 180 μg). The number of follicles with diameter ≥11 mm 
was  11.4,  13.5,  16.4  and  10.6  for  the  60  μg,  120  μg,  180  μg  and  150  IU  rFSH  dose  groups, 
respectively. 
•  In  the  Phase  III  trials,  the  number  of  follicles  with  diameter  ≥17  mm  induced  by  100  μg 
corifollitropin alfa in subjects with a body weight ≤ 60 kg (107012) and 150 μg corifollitropin alfa 
in  subjects  with  body  weight  >  60  kg  (38819)  were  similar  in  each  trial:  5.3  and  5.1  for  100  μg 
corifollitropin alfa and 150 IU recFSH, respectively, and 5.7 and 5.6 for 150 μg corifollitropin alfa 
and 200 IU, respectively. 
•  However,  in  the  corifollitropin  alfa  groups  slightly  more  medium-sized  follicles  were  observed, 
indicating  that  the  corifollitropin  alfa  regimen  is  recruiting  a  larger  cohort  of  follicles  than  daily 
recFSH.  The  number  of  follicles  with  diameter  ≥11  mm  was  14.9  and  12.9  for  100  μg 
corifollitropin alfa and 150 IU recFSH, respectively, and 16.0 and 13.9 for 150 μg corifollitropin 
alfa  and  200 IU,  respectively.  This  is  in  accordance  with  higher  levels  of  FSH  immunoreactivity 
during  the  first  days  of  stimulation  after  treatment  with  corifollitropin  alfa  as  compared  to  daily 
recFSH. 
Duration of treatment 
•  The  duration  of  stimulation  to  reach  the  criterion  for  administration  of  hCG  was  the  same  in  all 
groups (9 days). 
4  Porchet  HC,  le  Cotonnec  J-Y,  Loumaye  E.  Clinical  pharmacology  of  recombinant  follicle-stimulating  hormone.  III. 
Pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic modelling after repeated subcutaneous administration. Fertil Steril 1994;61:687-695. 
23/43 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
Pharmacodynamic interactions with other medicinal products or substances were not studied, which is 
acceptable. 
Clinical efficacy  
One  Phase  II  (38826)  dose-selection  study  and  two  pivotal  Phase  III  studies  (107012,  38819)  were 
submitted  to  document  the  efficacy  of  corifollitropin  alfa  in  the  indication  “Controlled  Ovarian 
Stimulation  (COS)”  (Table  3).  The  Phase  II  study  was  an  open-label,  active-controlled  (150  IU 
recFSH Puregon), randomized, dose-finding trial. Based on the outcome of this trial and subsequent 
PK/PD modelling, the recommended doses of 100 μg in women ≤ 60 kg and 150 μg in women >60 kg 
were chosen for the Phase III clinical program. One Phase III study (107012) assessed equivalence of 
100 μg corifollitropin alfa compared to 150 IU rFSH in women with a body weight ≤ 60 kg, whereas 
the  other  Phase  III  study  assessed  non-inferiority  of  150  μg  corifollitropin  alfa  compared  to  200  IU 
rFSH in women with a body weight >60 and ≤ 90 kg (38819). In addition, a Phase III (38825), open-
label, uncontrolled clinical trial evaluating multiple COS attempts, is still ongoing to assess the non-
immunogenicity and safety. 
Table 3: Tabular listing of the efficacy and safety studies 
Study 
ID 
38826 
38819 
107012 
No. of 
study 
centres / 
locations 
17 sites in 
Europe 
(BE, DE, 
DK, FI, 
UK, NL, 
NO, SE) 
20 sites in 
Europe 
(BE, CZ, 
DK, FI, 
FR, NL, 
NO, ES, 
SE, UK, 
US), 13 
sites in 
the US, 1 
site in 
CA,  
14 sites in 
Europe 
(AT, CZ, 
DK, FR, 
PL, ES, 
SE), 2 
sites in 
Asia 
(Korea, 
Taiwan) 
Design 
Study 
Posology 
Subjs by arm 
enrolled/compl. 
Mean age; 
Race 
Diagnosis 
Incl. criteria 
Primary 
Endpoint 
Open-label, 
active-
controlled, 
randomized 
dose-finding 
trial (Phase II) 
60, 120 and 
180 μg pf 
corifollitropi
n alfa 
(Elonva) or 
150 IU 
rFSH 
(Puregon) 
325 randomized 
315 ITT 
60 μg: 77 
120 μg: 77 
180 μg:79 
Puregon: 82 
32.1 years, 
Caucasian (95%), 
Black (2.2%), 
Asian (1.6%), 
Other (1.0%)  
Double-blind, 
active-
controlled, 
randomized, 
non-inferiority 
trial (Phase 
III) 
150 μg pf 
corifollitropi
n alfa 
(Elonva) or 
200 IU 
rFSH 
(Puregon) 
1509 
randomized 
150 μg: 757 
Puregon: 752 
1367 embryo 
transfer 
150 μg: 672 
Puregon: 704 
31.5 years, 
Caucasian (86%), 
Black (4.1%), 
Asian (2.8%) 
Double-blind, 
active-
controlled, 
randomized, 
equivalence 
trial (Phase 
III) 
100 μg pf 
corifollitropi
n alfa 
(Elonva) or 
150 IU 
rFSH 
(Puregon) 
396 randomized 
100 μg: 268 
Puregon: 128 
31.0 years, 
Caucasian (55%), 
Asian (44%), 
Black (0.3%) 
367 embryo 
transfer 
100 μg: 246 
Puregon: 121 
The number of 
oocytes 
(=cumulus-
oocyte-
complexes) 
retrieved. 
Ongoing 
pregnancy rate 
assessed at least 
10 weeks after 
ET. Co-primary 
endpoint: 
number of 
oocytes 
retrieved. 
The number of 
oocytes 
(=cumulus-
oocyte-
complexes) 
retrieved. 
Females of 
couples with an 
indication for 
COH and IVF or 
ICSI; ≥18 and ≤ 
39 years of age; 
BMI ≥ 18 and ≤ 
29 kg/m2; 
normal menstrual 
cycle length: 24-
35 days. 
Females of 
couples with an 
indication for 
COS and IVF or 
ICSI; ≥ 18 and ≤ 
36 years of age; 
body weight > 
60 and ≤ 90 kg 
and BMI ≥ 18 
and ≤ 32 kg/m2; 
normal menstrual 
cycle length: 24-
35 
days. 
Females of 
couples with an 
indication for 
COS and IVF or 
ICSI; ≥ 18 and ≤ 
36 years of age; 
body weight ≤ 
60 kg and BMI ≥ 
18 and ≤ 32 
kg/m2; normal 
menstrual cycle 
length: 24-35 
days. 
24/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Dose response studies 
Dose selection 
Phase II dose-finding trial (38826) 
The study (n=325) was designed to investigate the dose-response relationship of a single injection of 
corifollitropin alfa (60, 120 and 180 μg pf corifollitropin alfa) in women aged 20-39 years undergoing 
COS. A fixed reference dose of daily 150 IU recFSH (Puregon®) treatment was included as reference.  
The primary efficacy endpoint, i.e. mean number of oocytes retrieved, increased significantly with the 
corifollitropin alfa dose (Table 6). 
The  lower  number  of  oocytes  retrieved  in  the  recFSH  group  are  most  likely  the  result  of  the 
protocolized  regimen,  which  did  not  allow  increase  of  the  150  IU  dose,  and  subsequently  led  to 
suboptimal reference treatment. The primary endpoint for this study is appropriate, as it has been used 
before to assess safety and efficacy of gonadotropins for COS (EPAR Puregon). The EMEA proposed 
to  add  this  endpoint  as  a  co-primary  endpoint  in  the  Phase  III  38819  trial  in  their  Scientific  Advice 
Meeting. Ongoing pregnancy rates were assessed as secondary outcome. The resulting pregnancy rates 
were relatively low, and ranged between 13.6% and 15.6% per started cycle. 
PK/PD modelling (INT00073698) 
Based  on  the  outcome  of  the  dose-finding  trial  and  subsequent  PK/PD  modelling,  it  was  concluded 
that  the  recommended  dose  for  the  Phase  III  clinical  program  of  corifollitropin  alfa  was  100  μg  for 
subjects with body weight ≤ 60 kg and 150 μg for subjects with body weight >60 kg. Four outcome 
parameters were included in the modelling framework: 1) inhibin-B response, 2) the initial follicular 
response,  3)  number  of  oocytes  retrieved,  and  4)  number  of  fertilized  2-pronuclei  (2PN)  oocytes 
retrieved.  Body  weight  was  identified  as  a  determinant  to  exposure  to  corifollitropin  alfa.  It  was 
anticipated that the 100 μg and 150 μg would result in 12.1 and 13.2 oocytes retrieved. 
The data suggest that a dose of 125 μg instead of 150 μg could also have been chosen in subjects with 
body weight >60 kg (both rFSH started on Day 8). The predicted mean number of oocytes retrieved 
and mean number of fertilized 2PN oocytes were only slightly lower with 125 μg compared to 150 μg. 
In  addition,  125  μg  would  also  have  resulted  in  <10%  of  inhibin-gaps  (≥1.5  days).  However,  the 
applicant indicated that the clinical outcome was anticipated to be optimal for a slightly higher dose of 
150 μg, and therefore decided to use 150 μg in the Phase III trial in women with a body weight >60 kg 
(38819). 
Phase II pilot trial using a long protocol of GnRH agonist 
The  results  on  oocytes  retrieved  obtained  in  this  uncontrolled  study  that  used  a  GnRH  agonist  for 
pituitary down-regulation, indicated a higher number of oocytes retrieved (15.4 and 17.8 for the 100 
μg and 150 μg, respectively) than noted in both Phase III studies 13.3 and 13.7 for the 100 μg and 150 
μg, respectively, that used a GnRH antagonist protocol to down-regulate the pituitary. As a result, the 
applicant  has  included  the  wording  “in  combination  with  a  GnRH  antagonist”  in  the  indication 
(section 4.1), as recommended by the CHMP. 
These findings are in line with the systematic review and meta-analysis by Kolibianakis et al., which 
showed that significantly more oocytes were retrieved with the GnRH agonist protocol compared with 
the  GnRH  antagonist  protocol  (weighted  mean  difference  1.19  more  oocytes,  95%  CI:  0.56,  1.82). 
Other  factors  that  could  have  contributed  to  this  higher  number  of  oocytes  are  the  fixed  dose  of 
recFSH from stimulation day 8 onwards, the fact that all patients received recFSH on the day of hCG, 
and that all patients received 10,000 hCG. 
•  Main studies 
The two pivotal Phase III studies are: 
•  Study  38819:  Double-blind,  active-controlled,  randomized,  equivalence  trial  of  150  μg 
corifollitropin  alfa  (single  injection)    or  200  IU  recFSH  (daily)  to  induce  multifollicular 
growth in subjects > 60kg 
25/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Study 107012: Double-blind, active-controlled, randomized, non-inferiority trial of 100 μg pf 
corifollitropin  alfa  (single  injection)    or  150  IU  recFSH  (daily)  to  induce  multifollicular 
growth in subjects ≤ 60 kg 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Both  main  Phase  III  studies  were  designed  as  randomized,  double-blind  double-dummy,  active-
controlled,  multicentre  trials,  involving  IVF  centres  in  North  America  (38819),  Europe  (38819  and 
107012) and Asia (107012). 
The numbers of patients randomized and completed in each study and disposition of patients (by IVF 
stage) is presented for both studies in table 4 and Table 5. 
Table 4: Disposition of IVF patients by IVF stage  in Trial 38819 
Randomized 
Treated with Elonva or 
recFSH 
Treated with ganirelix 
Treated with hCG 
Oocyte retrieval 
Sperm/oocyte 
incubation 
Embryo transfer  
Trial 38819 
150 μg 
corifollitropin alfa 
757 (100.0%) 
756 (99.9%) 
Trial 38819 
200 IU recFSH 
752 (100.0%) 
750 (99.7%) 
754 (99.6%) 
733 (96.8%) 
732 (96.7%) 
727 (96.0%) 
749 (99.6%) 
741 (98.5%) 
742 (98.7%) 
737 (98.0%) 
672 (88.8%) 
704 (93.6%) 
Table 5: Disposition of IVF patients by IVF stage in Trial 107012 
Randomized 
Treated with Elonva or recFSH 
Treated with ganirelix 
Treated with recFSH from day 
8 onwards 
Treated with hCG 
Oocyte retrieval 
Sperm/oocyte incubation 
Embryo transfer  
Total discontinued 
100 μg 
 corifollitropin alfa 
268 (100.0%) 
268 (100.0%) 
268 (100.0%) 
268 (100.0%) 
266 (99.3%) 
266 (99.3%) 
264 (98.5%) 
246 (91.8%) 
22 (8.2%) 
150 IU recFSH 
128 (100.0%) 
128 (100.0%) 
128 (100.0%) 
127 (99.2%) 
127 (99.2%) 
127 (99.2%) 
124 (96.9%) 
121 (94.5%) 
7 (5.5%) 
Except for the difference in body weight, similar inclusion and exclusion criteria were applied in both 
studies.  
Inclusion criteria: 
•  Females of couples with an indication for COS and IVF or ICSI; 
•  ≥ 18 and ≤ 36 years of age at the time of signing informed consent; 
•  body weight > 60 and ≤ 90 kg and BMI ≥ 18 and ≤ 32 kg/m2 (Study 38819) 
•  body weight ≤ 60 kg and BMI ≥ 18 and ≤ 32 kg/m2 (Study  107012)  
•  normal menstrual cycle length: 24-35 days; 
•  availability of ejaculatory sperm (use of donated and/or cryopreserved sperm was allowed). 
Exclusion criteria: 
•  history of non-or low ovarian response to FSH/hMG treatment; 
•  more than three unsuccessful IVF cycles since the last established ongoing pregnancy; 
•  history of ovarian hyper-response or OHSS (see Page 7 for definitions); 
•  history of/or current PCOS; 
26/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  more  than  20  basal  antral  follicles  <11  mm  (both  ovaries  combined)  as  measured  on  USS  in  the 
early follicular phase (menstrual cycle day 2−5). 
The applied inclusion and exclusion criteria are adequate. Patients with a history of hyperresponse or 
OHSS, PCOS or an antral follicle count > 20 were excluded for safety reasons, and this was reflected 
in  the  proposed  SPC.  In  addition,  patients  were  excluded  with  a  history  of  non-  or  low  ovarian 
response  to  FSH/hMG  treatment  or  with  more  than  three  unsuccessful  IVF  cycles  since  the  last 
established ongoing pregnancy. 
Treatments 
Study  38819:    On  day  2  or  3  of  the  menstrual  cycle,  a  single  SC  injection  of  150  μg  (0.5  mL) 
(placebo-) Elonva was administered (Stimulation Day 1). Daily SC injections with (placebo-) recFSH 
(equivalent to 200 IU fixed dose) were started on Stimulation Day 1 and continued up to and including 
Stimulation Day 7. The dose of (placebo-) recFSH could be reduced from Stimulation Day 6 onwards.  
From Stimulation Day 8 onwards treatment was continued with a daily SC dose of recFSH up to and 
including the Day of hCG. As soon as three follicles ≥ 17 mm were observed by USS, hCG (10,000 
IU/USP Units) was administered the same day or the day thereafter to induce final oocyte maturation. 
The maximum duration of stimulation was 19 days. 
Study  107012:    On  day  2  or  3  of  the  menstrual  cycle,  a  single  SC  injection  of  100  μg  (0.5  mL) 
(placebo-) Elonva was administered (Stimulation Day 1). Daily SC injections with (placebo-) recFSH 
(equivalent of 150 IU fixed dose) were started on Stimulation Day 1 and continued up to and including 
Stimulation  Day  7.  The  dose  of  (placebo-)  recFSH  (maximally  200  IU)  could  be  adjusted  from 
Stimulation  Day  6  onwards  (e.g.  in  case  of  an  inappropriate  observed  follicular  response).  From 
Stimulation Day 8 onwards treatment was continued with a daily SC dose of recFSH (maximally 200 
IU) up to and including the Day of hCG. The maximum total duration of stimulation was 19 days. 
The  selection  of  the  comparator  recFSH  (Puregon)  is  acceptable,  as  it  is  a  frequently  used  recFSH 
preparation  in  COS.  Puregon  is  approved  for  the  COS-indication  by  the  centralised  procedure 
(EU/1/96/008). 
Dose of the comparator (Puregon®) 
In both 38819 and 107012, the dose of recFSH was set at maximum 200 IU. In the SPC of Puregon it 
is indicated “that a starting dose is recommended for at least the first four days. Thereafter, the dose 
may be adjusted individually. In clinical studies it was shown that maintenance dosages ranging from 
75-375 IU for six to twelve days are sufficient.” 
Maximum dose of 200 IU recFSH 
The lack of uptitration above 200 IU of the recFSH dose is acceptable for the following reasons: 
•  Discontinuation  due  to  “insufficient  ovarian  response”  and  “no/too  few/bad  quality  oocytes 
retrieved” was very low. 
•  Patients  were  relatively  young  (≤  36  years)  with  serum  FSH  and  LH  levels  indicating  sufficient 
ovarian reserve. 
•  Patients with a “History of non-or low ovarian response to FSH/hMG treatment” were excluded. 
•  The dosing regimen was similar for both treatment groups from Stimulation Day 8 onwards in both 
trials. For both treatment groups the maximum dose of 200 IU was applied. 
•  The total duration of stimulation was similar for both treatment groups in both trials. 
Even  more,  there  are  no  concerns  for  suboptimal  treatment  as  the  ongoing  pregnancy  rate  in  the 
recFSH group was high, 38.1% in trial 38819 and 34.4% in trial 107012 (see ‘Results’ section). This 
pregnancy rate is higher than was expected, as clinical routine pregnancy rates per ART cycle are in 
Europe (∼24%) and in the USA (34.3%). 
Dose adjustment from Stimulation Day 6 
To  avoid  that  FSH  dose  reductions  were  performed  on  top  of  the  start  of  the  GnRH  antagonist 
ganirelix at stimulation day 5, recFSH dose adjustments were only allowed one day later (i.e. from day 
27/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6  onwards).  Dose  adjustment  of  rec  FSH  is  within  the  current  SPC  and  it  is  also  in  line  with  the 
recommendations given in the review by Arce et al. 2005 regarding methodological and clinical issues 
in the design of efficacy trials in ART: “A fixed starting dose for at least 5-7 days should be proposed 
for all efficacy trials”.5 
Justification of starting dose in trial 38819 
Justifications provided by the applicant for the starting dose of 200 IU recFSH in trial 38819 can be 
accepted: 
•  A starting dose of 200 IU Puregon is consistent with the labelling both in Europe and the USA. 
•  The withdrawal due to a too high ovarian response was low, and the chosen dose is therefore not 
too  high.  Four  subjects  discontinued  in  the  200  IU  recFSH  group,  because  of  ‘risk  of  OHSS’  (2 
subjects),  ‘too  high  ovarian  response’  (1  subject)  and  ‘due  to  (S)AE’  (1  subject).  The  AE  in  this 
subject was OHSS. 
•  Discontinuation due to insufficient ovarian response was low, and the chosen dose is therefore not 
too low. In study 38819, 2 subjects for 200 IU Puregon and 8 subjects for 150 μg corifollitropin 
alfa.  
•  The  median  total  duration  of  stimulation  was  9  days  for  both  treatment  groups  and  only  2  days 
were required to complete ovarian stimulation from Day 8 onwards. 
•  Dose adjustment was possible for the Puregon comparator dose from Stimulation Day 6 onwards. 
•  The dosing regimen was similar for both treatment groups from Stimulation Day 8 onwards. 
Objectives 
The objective of study 38819 was to investigate the efficacy and safety of a single injection of 150 μg 
corifollitropin alfa in women weighing >60 kg and ≤90 kg to induce multifollicular development for 
COS, using daily recFSH as a reference. 
The objective of study 107012 was to investigate the efficacy and safety of a single injection of 100 
μg  corifollitropin  alfa  in  women  weighing  60  kg  or  less  undergoing  COS  for  IVF/ICSI,  using  daily 
recFSH as a reference. 
Endpoints  
In  trial  38819,  the  primary  endpoint  was  ‘ongoing  pregnancy  rate  assessed  at  least  10  weeks  after 
embryo  transfer’  and  the  co-primary  endpoint  was  ‘number  of  oocytes  retrieved’.  The  primary 
endpoint  was  requested  by  the  FDA  in  their  Scientific  Advice-meeting,  whereas  the  co-primary 
endpoint  ‘number  of  oocytes  retrieved’  was  asked  for  by  the  EMEA  in  their  Scientific  Advice-
meeting. The primary and co-primary endpoint are both considered acceptable. 
In  study  107012,  the  primary  endpoint  is  ‘number  of  oocytes  retrieved’.  Preferably,  ongoing 
pregnancy  rate  would  also  have  been  included  as  primary  endpoint,  as  it  is  a  better  estimate  of 
treatment  success  (delivery  of  a  healthy  baby).  However,  to  adequately  establish  non-inferiority  in 
ongoing  pregnancy  rates  the  sample  size  needed  to  be  at  least  3-4  fold  higher  compared  to  a  trial 
powered  on  oocytes.  Therefore,  the  applicant  decided  to  establish  non-inferiority  in  ongoing 
pregnancy rates as primary endpoint only for the highest 150 μg dose in trial 38819 and not also in the 
study evaluating a subgroup of the population with a body weight ≤ 60 kg. This is acceptable to the 
CHMP,  as  the  EMEA  in  their  Scientific  Advice  meeting  asked  specifically  for  ‘number  of  oocytes 
retrieved’ to be included as primary efficacy endpoint. In the latter trial, however, ‘ongoing pregnancy 
rate’ was included, but only as a secondary endpoint. 
Sample size 
In study 38819 the ongoing pregnancy rate was the primary endpoint on which the comparison was 
based  in  order  to  establish  non-inferiority  versus  recFSH.  For  the  difference  between  the  ongoing 
5  Arce  J-C,  Nyboe  Andersen  A,  Collins  J.  Resolving  methodological  and  clinical  issues  in  the  design  of  efficacy  trials  in 
assisted reproductive technologies: a mini-review. Hum Reprod 2005:20:1757-1771. 
28/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
pregnancy rates of the corifollitropin alfa group and the recFSH treatment group a predefined limit of -
8% was set for the lower bound of the two-sided 95% confidence interval. This margin was considered 
a  meaningful  difference  between  the  treatment  groups  in  view  of  the  variation  in  routine  clinical 
pregnancy rates between centres and the difference of around 10% between clinical routine pregnancy 
rates per ART cycle in Europe (~24%)6 and the USA (34.3%)7. This variation in pregnancy rates is 
mainly  due  to  differences  in  the  number  of  embryos  transferred.  In  view  of  the  fact  that  this  global 
trial  was  to  include  many  European  centres  that  were  to  opt  to  perform  single  embryo  transfer  in  a 
large proportion of their patients the resulting ongoing pregnancy rate was expected to be in the range 
of  20-30%.  A  sample  size  of  at  least  1380  subjects  was  then  the  minimum  required  to  demonstrate 
non-inferiority using an 8% margin, assuming the ongoing pregnancy rate could not exceed 30%. This 
margin was associated with an observed maximum difference in ongoing pregnancy rates of less than 
4% between the treatment groups. Based on these data, 700 subjects per group, in total 1400 subjects 
were to be randomized. 
In study 107012 the number of oocytes retrieved was the primary endpoint on which the comparison 
was based in order to establish equivalence, using the pre-specified equivalence margins of -3 and +5 
oocytes. Anticipating an SD of about 7.5-8 and assuming no actual treatment difference and a 
randomization ratio of 2:1 (twice as many subjects on corifollitropin alfa as on recFSH), a total sample 
size of 330 was required to show equivalence with a power of 90% using the equivalence margins of -
3 and +5 oocytes. A total of 330 subjects were to be randomized in a 2:1 ratio (220 subjects in the 
investigational group, 110 subjects in the reference group).  
Randomization 
Randomization was done by central remote allocation using an Interactive Voice Response telephone 
System (IVRS). Randomization was done per centre and was stratified for age (< 32 and ≥ 32 years); 
randomization in study 107012 was also stratified for planned fertilization procedure (IVF or ICSI). 
Blinding (masking) 
All medication delivered by the study sponsor was blinded and coded by protocol number, the amount 
of  medication,  the  expiry  date,  the  storage  conditions,  the  packaging  number  and,  if  applicable,  the 
name  of  the  investigator.  Since  both  the  investigational  products  and  placebos  used  during  this  trial 
were  indistinguishable  (all  transparent  liquids),  no  additional  measures  were  needed  to  ensure 
medication blinding. 
Statistical methods 
Analysis  of  the  (co-)primary  endpoints  was  performed  on  a  ‘per  attempt’  and  on  a  ‘per  stage’  basis 
both for the ITT and PP groups. The ‘per attempt’ basis is considered most relevant. According to the 
‘Points to consider on switching between superiority and non-inferiority’ (CPMP/EWP/482/99), in a 
non-inferiority trial the ITT and PP analysis set have equal importance. For showing equivalence the 
PP  analysis  is  more  important,  as  the  results  of  the  ITT  analysis  set  may  be  biased  towards 
demonstrating equivalence. However, both data sets should lead to the same conclusions. 
The treatment groups were compared in trial 38819 with a generalized linear model for the ongoing 
pregnancy rate including factors treatment group, age at randomization and region (Europe vs. North-
America). In addition, treatment groups were compared in trial 38819 with ANOVA for the number of 
oocytes including factors treatment group, age at randomization and centre. In trial 107012, also the 
planned  fertilization  procedure  (IVF  vs.  ICSI)  was  taken  into  account  as  a  variable  following  the 
recommendation  from  the  FDA  after  review  of  protocol  38819,  and  as  107012  was  a  much  smaller 
trial than trial 38819 and could therefore be more vulnerable to imbalance. The planned fertilization 
procedure is primarily based on sperm characteristics of the patient’s partner and previous IVF results. 
6  The  European  IVF  monitoring  programme  (EIM),  for  the  European  Society  of  Human  Reproduction  and 
Embryology  (ESHRE).  Assisted  reproductive  technology  in  Europe,  2001.  Results  generated  from  European 
Registers by ESHRE. Hum Reprod 2005; 20 (5): 1158-76. 
7 2002 Assisted Reproductive Technology Success Rates. National Summary and Fertility Clinic Reports. 
Accessed at: http://www.cdc.gov/reproductivehealth/art02/index.htm 
29/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
The subjects who had embryo(s) transferred or cryo-preserved before Day 3 were excluded from the 
assessment of embryo quality, since at Day 3 all embryos were to be assessed according to the Phase 
III protocols. 
The chosen non-inferiority margin of 8% between the ongoing pregnancy rates of corifollitropin alfa 
versus  recFSH  is  considered  rather  wide.  However,  in  light  of  the  differences  between  the  clinical 
routine  pregnancy  rates  per  ART  cycle  in  Europe  (24%)  and  the  USA  (34%),  and  the  fact  that  the 
observed  maximum  difference  in  ongoing  pregnancy  will  not  exceed  4%,  this  8%  margin  is 
acceptable. 
The  equivalence  margin  for  the  number  of  oocytes  retrieved  was  -3  and  +5  oocytes.  The  rationale 
provided  by  the  applicant  is  as  follows:  “If  the  corifollitropin  alfa  regimen  resulted  in  3  or  more 
oocytes less than the reference treatment, such difference was considered as clinically relevant because 
3 oocytes usually result in one good quality embryo for transfer or freezing. Anticipating to induce an 
average  of  12-13  oocytes  with  the  applied  recFSH  doses  in  the  two  reference  groups,  an  excess  of 
more than 5 oocytes would be undesirable as subjects with more than 18 oocytes are known to have an 
increased risk of OHSS8,9. Hence, an upper margin of +5 oocytes is applied for the difference in the 
number  of  oocytes  retrieved  between  the  corifollitropin  alfa  and  recFSH  treatment  groups.”  The 
CHMP considers the rationale for the equivalence margin of -3 and +5 oocytes acceptable. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
In both trials the discontinuation in the corifollitropin alfa group was higher compared to the recFSH 
group: 11.1% and 6.1% for 150 μg corifollitropin alfa and 200 IU recFSH, respectively, and 8.2% and 
5.5% for 100 μg corifollitropin alfa and 150 IU recFSH, respectively. In 38819, the differences were 
highest in categories: (1) Due to (S)AE, (2) Risk of OHSS, (3) Too high ovarian response. The data 
imply  that  150  μg  corifollitropin  alfa  might  evoke  a  too  high  ovarian  response,  and  consequently  a 
higher risk on OHSS and (S)AE than seen with 200 IU recFSH. 
Baseline data 
Baseline  demographics  were  comparable  within  each  trial.  No  clinically  relevant  differences  were 
observed  in  the  baseline  characteristics  within  each  trial,  such  as  type  of  infertility  (male  factor, 
unexplained infertility, tubal factor) and previous IVF cycle. The groups were not matched for severity 
of male factor infertility and stage of endometriosis. However, the exclusion criterion “Less than two 
ovaries or any other ovarian abnormality (including endometrioma > 10 mm; visible on USS)” and the 
inclusion  criterion  “availability  of  ejaculatory  sperm”  were  used.  As  no  differences  in  fertilization 
were observed in trials 107012 (67.6% vs. 67.7%) and 38819 (66.0% vs. 67.6%), there is no reason for 
concern. The overall mean age was 31 years. A large percentage in study 107012 were Asian patients 
(44%). 
Numbers analysed / Outcomes and estimation 
(Co-)Primary efficacy results 
Major  efficacy  data  of  the  intent-to-treat  and  per-protocol  population  are  summarized  in  Table  6  In 
38819,  non-inferiority  for  the  primary  endpoint,  i.e.  ongoing  pregnancy  rate,  was  adequately 
established. For the co-primary endpoint ‘number of oocytes retrieved’ equivalence has been shown. 
Also,  in  107012,  equivalence  has  been  shown  for  number  of  oocytes  retrieved,  i.e.  the  primary 
endpoint. For both populations similar results were obtained. 
8 Papanikolaou EG, Pozzobon C, Kolibianakis EM, et al. Incidence and prediction of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome in 
women undergoing gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist in vitro fertilization cycles. Fertil Steril. 2006;85:112-120. 
9 Verwoerd GR, Mathews T and Brinsden PR. Optimal follicle and oocyte numbers for cryopreservation of all embryos in 
IVF cycles at risk of OHSS. RBM online. 2008;17, 312-317. 
30/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Table 6: Overview of trials used to support efficacy and the outcome of the predefined efficacy 
analyses 
Number of oocytes 
retrieved 
Ongoing pregnancy rate 
Trial 
(Phase) 
38826 (II) 
Trial design 
(Number of 
subjects enrolled) 
Open-label 
Dose-finding trial 
(N=325) 
38819 (III) 
Double-blind 
Non-inferiority 
trial 
ITT population 
(N=1509) 
PP population 
(N=1472) 
Treatment 
Mean 
(SD) 
60 (cid:31)g Elonva 
120(cid:31)g Elonva 
180 (cid:31)g Elonva 
150 IU recFSH 
5.2 (5.5) 
10.3 (6.3) 
12.5 (8.0) 
7.7 (6.3) 
150 (cid:31)g Elonva 
13.7 (8.2) 
200 IU recFSH 
12.5 (6.7) 
150 (cid:31)g Elonva 
13.7 (8.2) 
200 IU recFSH 
12.6 (6.8) 
107012 (III)  Double-blind 
100 (cid:31)g Elonva 
13.3 (7.3) 
Equivalence trial 
ITT population 
(N=396) 
PP population 
(N=396) 
150 IU recFSH 
10.6 (5.9) 
100 (cid:31)g Elonva 
13.3 (7.3) 
150 IU recFSH 
10.6 (5.9) 
38825 (III) 
Open-label 
Non-controlled 
safety trial 
(N=681) 
Cycle 1: 
150 (cid:31)g Elonva 
11.9 (7.2) 
Estimated 
differencea 
[95% CI] 
Dose-
response 
established 
primary 
endpoint 
+1.2 
[0.5;1.9] 
Equivalence 
established 
co-primary 
endpoint 
+1.2 
[0.5;2.0] 
Equivalence 
established 
co-primary 
endpoint 
+2.5 
[1.2;3.9] 
Equivalence 
established 
primary 
endpoint 
+2.5 
[1.2;3.9] 
Equivalence 
established 
primary 
endpoint 
Estimated 
differencea 
[95% CI] 
+0.9% 
[-3.9; 5.7] 
Non-inferiority 
established 
primary 
endpoint 
+1.1% 
[-3.8; 6.0] 
Non-inferiority 
established 
primary 
endpoint 
-9.2% 
[-18.9; 0.5%] 
secondary 
endpoint 
-9.2% 
[-18.9; 0.5%] 
secondary 
endpoint 
% 
15.4% 
15.6% 
13.9% 
13.6% 
38.9% 
38.1% 
39.4% 
38.5% 
25.4% 
34.4% 
25.4% 
34.4% 
31.1%b  
a Estimated difference Elonva – recFSH; bBiochemical pregnancy rate presented as trial is ongoing 
Key secondary efficacy results 
In trial 107012, evaluating efficacy in women with body weight ≤ 60 kg, the percentage of ongoing 
pregnancy rates was not in favour of 100 μg corifollitropin alfa. The difference of 9% and the lower 
margin of -19% are considered substantial. The applicant discussed differences in patient history and 
baseline  characteristics,  stimulation  characteristics  and  fertilization  procedures  and  embryo  transfer 
between  the  two  treatment  groups.  None  of  these  factors  could  explain  the  observed  difference  in 
pregnancy rates. Thus, the observed difference is most likely a chance finding. Reassuring is the larger 
38819  trial,  with  similar  variables  as  107012,  which  revealed  a  similar  pregnancy  rate  for 
corifollitropin alfa and Puregon. 
Pregnancy follow-up 
The full study reports (38821 and 107014) of the pregnancy and neonatal outcome data from the two 
pivotal clinical trials were submitted. The take-home baby rates reflect the ongoing pregnancy rates: 
35.6% in the 150 μg group compared to 34.4% in the 200 IU recFSH group, and 23.5% in the 100 μg 
group compared to 34.4% in the 150 IU recFSH group.  
31/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
The  impact  of  a  number  of  factors  on  the  primary  efficacy  outcome  parameters  (number  of  oocytes 
retrieved and ongoing pregnancy rate) was reviewed. Results from the Phase III trials revealed that the 
number of oocytes retrieved declined with increasing age, with increasing baseline FSH level and with 
decreasing basal antral follicle count at the start of stimulation in both treatment groups. 
Further analyses of the ongoing pregnancy rates observed in subgroups of the Phase III trials showed 
that  subjects  without  a  previous  IVF  treatment  cycle  and  subjects  with  double  embryo  transfer  had 
higher success rates compared to those with a previous cycle or single embryo transfer. These factors 
may explain partly the higher overall ongoing pregnancy rates in North America as compared to those 
in Europe. However, for neither of these factors statistically significant differences were observed in 
ongoing pregnancy rate between the treatment groups.  
•  Supportive studies 
Study  38825  is  an  ongoing  Phase  III,  open-label,  uncontrolled  clinical  trial  to  assess  the  non-
immunogenicity  and  safety  of  corifollitropin  alfa  in  patients  undergoing  repeated  COS  cycles, 
performed  in  Europe,  Australia  and  Latin  America.  Subjects  are  treated  with  150  μg  corifollitropin 
alfa for up to three treatment cycles. 
The recommended daily dose to continue treatment is 150 IU, which is similar to trial 38819 that also 
included  women  above  60  kg  body  weight.  No  primary  efficacy  parameter  is  defined  for  this  trial. 
Interim  analyses  of  the  efficacy  parameters  obtained  from  the  first  treatment  cycle  show  a  mean 
number 11.9 retrieved oocytes. The corresponding biochemical pregnancy rate of 31.1% is lower than 
the ongoing pregnancy rates observed in study 38819 (47.5%). This difference might be the result of a 
slightly higher mean age in study 38825 and a lower basal antral follicle count.  
Clinical safety 
The  safety  data  presented  summarized  adverse  events  for  all  subjects  who  were  included  in  the  4 
Phase  I  trials,  4  Phase  II  trials,  2  active-controlled  Phase  III  trials,  and  2  pregnancy  and  neonatal 
follow-up trials. In addition, interim safety data from ongoing trials were included: 1 Phase II trial, 1 
uncontrolled Phase III multicycle trial and 4 pregnancy and neonatal follow-up trials. 
•  Patient exposure 
In the completed trials, 309 subjects and 779 subjects have been exposed to a dose of 100 μg (body 
weight  of  ≤  60  kg)  and  150  μg  (>60  kg),  respectively.  Moreover,  in  the  ongoing  Phase  III 
immunogenicity  trial  681  subjects,  321  subjects  and  105  subjects  had  received  once,  twice  or  three 
times  a  dose  of  150  μg  corifollitropin  alfa.  The  safety  data  available  are  considered  adequate  for 
exposure to 100 μg and 150 μg corifollitropin alfa. 
Within the active-controlled Phase III trials (107012 and 38819) no clear differences were observed in 
the subjects’ demographic and infertility characteristics between the treatment groups. As a result of 
the  difference  in  trial  design,  the  body  weight  and  BMI  were  different  between  the  Phase  III  trials: 
54.2  kg  and  20.5  for  the  107012  trial,  and  68.6  kg  and  24.8  for  the  38819  trial,  respectively.  In 
addition, there were more subjects without a previous IVF cycle in trial 38819 (74.4%) compared to 
trial 107012 (56.9%). In 107012, women were  Caucasian (55.2%) or Asian (44.6%), except for one 
black  subject,  thus  reflecting  the  geographical  location  of  the  studies:  Europe  and  Asia.  In  contrast, 
subjects in 38819 were primarily Caucasian (85.9%). 
The  most  frequently  reported  cause  of  infertility  was  male  factor  (48.9%),  followed  by  unexplained 
infertility (27.4%) and tubal factor (25.7%). Of note is that a subject can have more than one cause of 
infertility. 
32/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Adverse events  
The overall incidence in subjects experiencing at least one AE was generally similar  within the two 
controlled  Phase  III  studies,  with  55.2%  in  the  100  μg  group  versus  53.3%  in  the  150  IU  recFSH 
group and 63.7% in the 150 μg group versus 61.1% in the 200 IU recFSH group. 
Most  subjects  in  both  corifollitropin  alfa  dose  groups  as  well  as  in  the  two  recFSH  groups  reported 
AEs  in  the  following  System  organ  Classes  (SOCs):  Reproductive  system  and  breast  disorders, 
Nervous  system  disorders  and  Gastrointestinal  disorders.  The  most  common  AEs  were  pelvic  pain, 
pelvic  discomfort,  headache  and  nausea.  There  were  no  clinically  relevant  differences  for  these 
frequently reported AEs between the treatment groups. 
Events that were most frequently considered drug-related were Pelvic discomfort, OHSS, Headache, 
Pelvic Pain, Nausea and Fatigue. The incidences were very similar between the four treatment groups; 
100 μg corifollitropin alfa, 150 IU recFSH, 150 μg corifollitropin alfa and 200 IU recFSH, except for 
a slightly higher incidence of OHSS. (See discussion below on OHSS). 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
The overall SAE incidence in the corifollitropin alfa groups was comparable to the reference groups 
within each Phase III trial (38819 and 107012). 
The  SAEs  reported  in  more  than  one  subject  per  treatment  group  were:  OHSS,  ectopic  pregnancy, 
ovarian torsion, abortion missed, ruptured ectopic pregnancy and abortion spontaneous. No clinically 
relevant differences in overall SAEs were observed between the treatment groups, apart from a higher 
observed  incidence  of  OHSS  (2.1%  corifollitropin  alfa  vs.  1.0%  recFSH;  see  discussion  below  on 
OHSS). 
No deaths were reported in any completed or ongoing studies. 
Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) 
•  Although the number of OHSS cases observed in the comparative Phase III studies is low, OHSS 
represents one of the most serious complications in Assisted Reproductive Technology. Two forms 
of OHSS have been described: early-onset and late-onset OHSS. Early-onset OHSS appears to be 
associated  with  an  excessive  ovarian  response  to  gonadotropin  stimulation,  whereas  late-onset 
OHSS occurs as a consequence of endogenously produced hCG from an implanting pregnancy. 
-- OHSS in comparative Phase III studies (107012 and 38819) -- 
•  Though  the  overall  incidence  of  OHSS  was  comparable  in  the  Phase  III  trial  38819,  the  overall 
incidence was 2% higher  in the corifollitropin alfa-group compared to the Puregon-group in trial 
107012 (6.7% vs. 4.7%). 
•  The incidence of early onset OHSS, which is associated with an excessive ovarian response, was 
higher  after  corifollitropin  alfa  treatment  compared  to  Puregon-treatment  in  both  Phase  III  trials, 
107012 (3.0% vs. 1.6%, respectively) and 38819 (5.2% vs. 4.0%, respectively). The incidence of 
late-onset OHSS was comparable within both trials between the treatment groups. 
•  OHSS  was  reported  more  frequently  as  a  SAE  in  the  corifollitropin  alfa  groups  compared  to  the 
Puregon groups in both Phase III trials, 107012 (2.6% vs. 0.0%, respectively) and 38819 (1.9% vs. 
1.2%, respectively). 
•  OHSS that led to study discontinuation was higher in the corifollitropin alfa group compared to the 
Puregon group in trial 38819 (1.6% vs. 0.1%). 
The  data  above  indicate  a  slightly  higher  incidence  of  early-onset  OHSS  after  corifollitropin  alfa-
treatment compared to Puregon-treatment. In addition, the OHSS observed appeared more severe, and 
more often led to discontinuation. 
Additionally, there are several findings that point to a higher ovarian response: 
•  Dose adjustment of (placebo-)recFSH could be made from Stimulation Day 6 on in case of too high 
ovarian  response.  The  results  of  both  active-controlled  Phase  III  studies  show  that  the  (placebo-) 
33/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
recFSH dose was decreased in a higher percentage of subjects in the corifollitropin alfa treatment 
groups compared to the Puregon treatment groups for Stimulation Days 6, 7 and 8. 
•  When  150  μg  corifollitropin  alfa  was  used  in  a  long  protocol  with  a  GnRH  agonist,  the  average 
number of oocytes came close to 18 oocytes, thereby increasing the chances on developing OHSS. 
Although  no  OHSS  was  observed  and  it  was  a  small  study  (only  25  subjects  randomized  to  150 
μg), the applicant included a warning that corifollitropin alfa is not recommended in combination 
with a GnRH agonist (SPC Section 4.4). 
•  The  corifollitropin  alfa  groups  had  more  follicles  ≥11  mm  on  the  day  of  hCG  administration 
compared to their respective Puregon reference groups: the mean number of follicles was 14.9 and 
12.9 for subjects treated with 100 μg corifollitropin alfa and 150 IU recFSH, respectively, and 16.0 
and 13.9 for subjects treated with 150 μg corifollitropin alfa and 200 IU recFSH, respectively.  
     In public literature, a correlation has been shown between the number of follicles of diameter ≥11 
mm on the day of hCG administration and the development of early-onset OHSS10. 
-- OHSS in ongoing Phase III study (38825) -- 
Data was provided regarding the ongoing uncontrolled Phase III study 38825. The treatment protocol 
of this study is more close to current medical practice. The mean age of the included women was 32.9 
years, which is higher than for the women included in trial 107012 and 38819 in the corifollitropin alfa 
group, 30.9 and 31.5 years, respectively. Correspondingly, the Antral Follicle Count (AFC) was lower 
in the women in 38825, 10.9, compared to the women included in trial 107012 and 38819, 11.1 and 
12.3, respectively. This study had a lower overall incidence of OHSS of 3.5% compared to trial 38819, 
7.0%. These data are reassuring as the treatment protocol of 38825 resembled more current medical 
practice, and the age of the included women is more a reflection of the IVF population, which tends to 
get higher. 
-- Race and OHSS -- 
Sub-group  analysis  of  OHSS  per  race  in  trial  107012,  indicated  that  the  overall  incidence  of  OHSS 
(6.7%) in the Asian population exposed to 100 μg corifollitropin alfa was higher than exposed to 150 
IU recFSH (1.8%). However, the incidence of OHSS in Asian subjects is comparable (6.7%) with the 
incidence in Caucasian subjects (6.8%). Even more, the number  of growing follicles is not different 
between  Caucasian  and  Asian  subjects.  Therefore,  a  difference  in  risk  is  not  expected.  The  low 
incidence of OHSS (1.8%)  in Asian subjects treated with 150 IU recFSH might be due to chance, as it 
concerns a small number of patients (n=57).  
-- Body weight and OHSS -- 
Sub-analyses of study 38819 were provided by the applicant of 1) body weight of the subjects related 
to  ‘ongoing  pregnancy  rate’  and  2)  body  weight  of  the  subjects  related  to  ‘number  of  oocytes 
retrieved’,  as  theoretically  it  may  be  that  women  with  a  higher  body  weight  have  a  lower  ‘ongoing 
pregnancy rate’ and a lower ‘number of oocytes retrieved’. However, ‘Ongoing pregnancy rates’ and 
‘number of oocytes retrieved’ were comparable in all body weight categories.  
A woman of 60 kg receives 100 μg corifollitropin alfa, whereas the dose of a woman of 61 kg is 1.5 
times higher, i.e. 150 μg corifollitropin alfa. Theoretically, it may be that women with a body weight 
close to 60 kg have a higher risk on developing OHSS. However, the incidence of OHSS was similar 
between  the  different  body  weight  categories.  Further,  there  seems  to  be  a  considerable  amount  of 
variation between women in the ovarian response. The variability in AUC in Trials 107012 and 38819 
was  25%  (CV%)  in  non-Asian  subjects,  which  implies  that  a  50%  difference  of  AUC  between  two 
randomly  selected  subjects  is  not  unusual.  Other  data  in  support  of  a  similar  risk  are  coming  from 
studies 38807 and 38826. In conclusion, a woman weighing 60 kg is expected to have a similar risk of 
OHSS as compared to a woman weighing 61 kg.  
The  slightly  higher  incidence  of  OHSS  with  corifollitropin  alfa  treatment  is  considered  acceptable, 
taking into account the results of the ongoing Phase III study (3.5% OHSS), the fact that all women 
had recovered by the end of the trials, and the fact that there is no relation between race and OHSS, 
10 Papanikolaou EG, Pozzobon C, Kolibianakis EM, et al. Incidence and prediction of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome in 
women undergoing gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist in vitro fertilization cycles. Fertil Steril 2006;85:112-120. 
34/43 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
nor  body  weight  and  OHSS.  In  addition,  the  difference  in  absolute  numbers  was  small  between  the 
corifollitropin alfa and Puregon treatment groups, and the incidence of OHSS was comparable to what 
has  been  reported  in  public  literature.  Appropriate  measures,  in  line  with  the  measures  taken  in  the 
Phase III studies, have been taken in order to minimise the risk for OHSS: 
1) 
All women with a history of Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome are contra-indicated for use 
of corifollitropin alfa; 
A previous COS cycle that resulted in more than 30 follicles ≥ 11 mm on ultrasound scan” has 
been added in the list of contraindications; 
In  line  with  the  indication  “Controlled  Ovarian  Stimulation  (COS)  in  combination  with  a 
GnRH  antagonist  for  the  development  of  multiple  follicles  and  pregnancy  in  women 
participating  in  an  Assisted  Reproductive  Technology  (ART)  program”  the  SPC  includes  a 
warning that combined use with a GnRH-agonist is not recommended as the available data are 
insufficient  to  support  efficacy  and  safety  of  corifollitropin  alfa  in  a  long  GnRH  agonist 
protocol. 
2) 
3) 
It is acceptable that the condition of PCOS is mentioned only in section 4.4. With the inclusion of the 
contra-indications “A basal antral follicle count > 20” and “Ovarian cysts or enlarged ovaries”, women 
with PCOS with polycystic ovaries, who are at risk, are excluded for corifollitropin alfa treatment. 
Potential signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity 
The  AEs  within  the  Standardized  MedDRA  Query  (SMQ)  Anaphylactic  reactions,  local  tolerance 
scores,  and  vital  sign  values  30  minutes  after  corifollitropin  alfa  injection,  do not  suggest  a  specific 
safety concern related to a hypersensitivity reaction. 
Immunogenicity  was  specifically  assessed  in  the  ongoing  Phase  III  trial  38825  after  repeated 
administration. Three patients are positive for anti-corifollitropin antibodies, but these antibodies are 
of low affinity and are not neutralizing. Therefore, these antibodies do not have a clinically relevant 
effect.  
An extensive description of the assay strategy was submitted with further clarifications provided upon 
request from the CHMP, also following observations from the GCP inspection. In general, the assay 
strategy is appropriate and in line with current guidance. The assays are sufficiently validated and the 
analytical strategy (screening, re-screening, depletion) is suitable for the detection and characterisation 
of anti-corifollitropin antibodies.  
Relevant results of antibody testing in ongoing clinical trials or post-marketing surveillance should be 
submitted as part of the PSURs.  
Pregnancy follow-up 
The  CHMP,  as  a  matter  of  principle  requested  the  full  study  reports  of  the  pregnancy  and  neonatal 
follow-up  trials  of  the  pivotal  trials  prior  registration,  as  in  ART  eventually  the  goal  is  to  deliver  a 
healthy baby. In addition, neonatal outcome data were also present in previous centralised submissions 
of recFSH preparations (Gonal-F and Puregon). 
Complete  pregnancy  and  neonatal  follow-up  information  (38821  and  107014)  was  provided  for  the 
two pivotal clinical Phase III trials. Data was collected on 342 (expectant) mothers and 440 foetuses 
after  corifollitropin  alfa  treatment  and  on  312  (expectant)  mothers  and  381  foetuses  after  recFSH 
treatment. 
•  The  most  frequently  reported  AEs  in  the  (expectant)  mothers  were  in  the  SOC  ‘Pregnancy, 
Puerperium  and  perinatal  conditions’;  for  approximately  66%  in  all  treatment  groups.  Most 
frequently  reported  AEs  in  this  SOC  were  ‘Premature  labour’,  ‘Placenta  praevia’,  ‘Twin 
pregnancy’,  ‘Premature  rupture  of  membranes’,  ‘Threatened  Labour’  and  ‘Arrested  labour’.  No 
relevant differences between the treatment groups were observed. 
•  No  differences  were  revealed  in  the  incidence  of  congenital  malformations  between  the  two 
treatment groups in the live born infants. When the congenital malformations were evaluated per 
System Organ Class, High Level Group Term and Preferred Term, the distribution was similar for 
35/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  two  treatment  groups.  The  largest  difference  was  observed  for  ‘Atrial  septal  defect  and 
ventricular septal defect’, which was in favour of corifollitropin alfa. The data do not suggest any 
safety concern for the offspring of corifollitropin alfa treated subjects. 
The  other  full  study  reports  (38817,  38827  and  38834)  and  the  interim  study  report  of  the  ongoing 
Phase III study (38829) are in support of these conclusions. The applicant will provide the full study 
reports  of  the  ongoing  pregnancy  and  neonatal  follow-up  trial  38829  (including  pregnancy  and 
neonatal outcome) and the FTET (Frozen thawed embryo transfer) trials 107015 and 38831, as soon as 
these  studies  are  finished.  The  company  has  undertaken  a  post-approval  commitment  to  provide  the 
full study reports as soon as these are available. 
•  Laboratory findings 
No clinically relevant effects were observed between the treatment groups in the completed Phase III 
studies on the clinical laboratory evaluation. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Corifollitropin  alfa  is  mainly  eliminated  by  the  kidney  through  glomerular  filtration  followed  by 
proximal  tubular  resorption  and  subsequent  metabolism.  Therefore,  in  subjects  with  renal 
insufficiency the excretion of corifollitropin alfa might be impaired.  
Hepatic  metabolism  contributes  to  a  minor  extent  to  corifollitropin  alfa  metabolism  (see  also 
Pharmacokinetics). 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No interaction studies with Elonva and other medicines have been performed. Since corifollitropin alfa 
is not a substrate of cytochrome P450 enzymes, no metabolic interactions with other medicinal 
products are anticipated. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
None of the subjects in trial 107012 discontinued due to (S)AEs. In trial 38819, 16 subjects (2.1%) in 
the 150 μg corifollitropin alfa group and 3 subjects (0.4%) in the 200 IU recFSH group discontinued 
due to (S)AEs. 
Of  the  16  subjects  in  the  corifollitropin  alfa  group,  12  subjects  were  discontinued  due  to  OHSS,  of 
which in 4 subjects the OHSS was considered a SAE. In all 12 cases, the OHSS was considered drug-
related.  The  following  events  were  reported  in  the  remaining  4  subjects:  uterine  polyp  (two  cases), 
ovulation  disorder  and  cervix  carcinoma.  Except  for  one  case  of  uterine  polyp,  these  events  were 
considered not drug related. 
In  the  recFSH  group,  the  subjects  discontinued  due  to  the  following  AEs:  OHSS,  uterine  polyp  and 
tachycardia. The OHSS and the uterine polyp were considered drug-related. 
A difference is observed in OHSS in favour of the 200 IU recFSH treatment (see discussion above on 
OHSS). 
•  Post marketing experience 
The product was not licensed in any country. 
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements. 
36/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan 
Table 7: Summary of the risk management plan (INT00126513 Version 4.0, November, 2009) 
Safety issue 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Important identified risk 
OHSS 
The use of a specific OHSS addendum 
to the AE reporting form. 
The regulatory authorities will be kept 
informed  about  the  reported  number 
of 
the 
of  OHSS 
consequences  thereof  via  the  periodic 
safety reports. 
cases 
and 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Inclusion of measures in SmPC: 
- Restricted Indication: 
Controlled  Ovarian  Stimulation  (COS)  in  combination  with  a  GnRH 
antagonist for the development of multiple follicles in women participating in 
an Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) program. 
- Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Ovarian cysts or enlarged ovaries. 
A history of Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS). 
A previous COS cycle that resulted in more than 30 follicles > 11 
mm measured by ultrasound examination 
A basal antral follicle count > 20. 
- Extensive Warnings and Precautions 
• 
• 
• 
In 
rare 
Elonva  has  not  been  studied  in  patients  with  PCOS.  In  these 
women the use of Elonva is not recommended. 
The ovarian response was shown to be higher after treatment with 
Elonva than after treatment with daily recFSH. Therefore, women 
with  known  risk  factors  for  a  high  ovarian  response  may  be 
especially prone to the development of OHSS during or following 
treatment  with  Elonva.  For  women  having  their  first  cycle  of 
ovarian  stimulation,  for  whom  risk  factors  are  only  partially 
known, careful monitoring for potential ovarian hyperresponse is 
recommended. 
Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS): OHSS is a medical 
event  distinct  from  uncomplicated  ovarian  enlargement.  Clinical 
signs  and  symptoms  of  mild  and  moderate  OHSS  are  abdominal 
pain, nausea, diarrhoea, mild to  moderate enlargement of ovaries 
and ovarian cysts. Severe OHSS may be life-threatening. Clinical 
signs  and  symptoms  of  severe  OHSS  are  large  ovarian  cysts 
(prone to rupture), acute abdominal pain, ascites, pleural effusion, 
hydrothorax,  dyspnoea,  oliguria,  haematological  abnormalities 
instances,  venous  or  arterial 
and  weight  gain. 
thromboembolism  may  occur  in  association  with  OHSS.  Signs 
and  symptoms  of  OHSS  are  stimulated  by  administration  of 
human  Chorionic  Gonadotropin  (hCG)  and  by  pregnancy 
(endogenous  hCG).  Early  OHSS  usually  occurs  within  10  days 
after hCG administration and may be associated with an excessive 
ovarian  response  to  gonadotropin  stimulation.  Usually,  early 
OHSS  resolves  spontaneously  with  the  onset  of  menses.  Late 
OHSS  occurs  more  than  10  days  after  hCG  administration,  as  a 
consequence  of  (multiple)  pregnancy.  Because  of  the  risk  of 
developing  OHSS,  patients  should  be  monitored  for  at  least  two 
weeks  after  hCG  administration.  To  minimise  the  risk  of  OHSS, 
ultrasonographic  assessments  of  follicular  development  and/or 
determination of serum estradiol levels should be performed prior 
to  treatment  and  at  regular  intervals  during  treatment.  In  ART 
there is an increased risk of OHSS with 18 or more follicles of 11 
mm  or  more  in  diameter.  When  there  are  30  or  more  follicles  in 
total it is advised to withhold hCG administration. Depending on 
the ovarian response, the following measurements can be used to 
prevent OHSS: 
• 
triggering  final  oocyte  maturation  with  hCG 
withhold  further  stimulation  with  a  gonadotropin  for  a 
maximum of 3 days (coasting); 
delay 
administration until estradiol levels stabilize or decrease; 
administer  a  dose  lower  than  10,000  IU  of  hCG  for 
triggering  final  oocyte  maturation,  e.g.  5,000  IU  hCG  or 
to 
250  micrograms 
is  equivalent 
rec-hCG 
(which 
• 
• 
37/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk 
Hypersensitivity 
trial 
Completion  of  the  clinical  trial  report 
exposure 
repeated 
the 
of 
immunogenicity 
(38825) 
(November  2009).  In  the  planned 
human  QTc  trial  and  the  planned 
additional Phase III trial (Pursue) anti-
Org  36286  antibody  measurements 
will  be  performed  (both  start  2010). 
No further action will be undertaken. 
Important pharmacological class effects 
Congenital 
malformations 
Completion 
pregnancy 
of 
neonatal follow-up trial 38829 
and 
approximately 6,500 IU); 
cryopreserve all embryos for future transfer; 
withhold hCG and cancel the treatment cycle. 
• 
• 
For  luteal  phase  support,  administration  of  hCG  should  be 
avoided.  
Adherence  to  the  recommended  Elonva  dose  and  treatment 
regimen and careful monitoring of ovarian response is important 
to minimise the risk of OHSS. 
Since the available data do not suggest a specific safety concern in terms of a 
hypersensitivity reaction or anti-Org 36286 antibody formation, no warning 
is needed for the potential risk hypersensitivity. 
The following warning has been included in the SmPC Section 4.4 (Special 
warnings  and  precautions 
incidence  of  congenital 
for  use):  The 
malformations  after  ART  may  be  slightly  higher  than  after  spontaneous 
conceptions.  This 
in  parental 
characteristics  (e.g.  maternal  age,  sperm  characteristics)  and  the  higher 
incidence of multiple pregnancies. 
to  differences 
to  be  due 
thought 
is 
Multiple pregnancy 
None 
Spontaneous abortion 
None 
Ectopic pregnancy 
None 
Ovarian torsion 
None 
Venous 
thromboembolism 
None 
Malignant neoplasm 
None 
The following warning has been included in the SmPC Section 4.4 (Special 
warnings and precautions for use): Multiple pregnancies and births have been 
reported for all gonadotropin treatments. The woman and her partner should 
be  advised  of  the  potential  risks  for  the  mother  (pregnancy  and  delivery 
complications) and the neonate (low birth weight) before starting treatment. 
In  women  undergoing  ART  procedures  the  risk  of  multiple  pregnancy  is 
mainly related to the number of embryos transferred. Multiple gestations are 
also  mentioned  as  a  possible  adverse  event  related  to  ART  treatment  in  the 
SmPC Section 4.8 (Undesirable effects). 
Miscarriage  is  mentioned  as  a  possible  adverse  event  related  to  the  ART 
procedure  or  subsequent  pregnancy  in  the  SmPC  Section  4.8  (Undesirable 
effects). 
The following warning has been included in the SmPC Section 4.4 (Special 
warnings  and  precautions  for  use):  Since  infertile  women  undergoing  ART, 
and particularly IVF, often have tubal abnormalities, the incidence of ectopic 
pregnancies  might  be  increased.  It  is  important  to  have  early  ultrasound 
confirmation that a pregnancy is intrauterine, and to exclude the possibility of 
extrauterine  pregnancy.  Ectopic  pregnancy  is  also  mentioned  as  a  possible 
adverse event related to the ART procedure or subsequent pregnancy in the 
SmPC Section 4.8 (Undesirable effects). 
Ovarian  torsion  is  mentioned  as  an  uncommon  adverse  drug  reaction  in  the 
SmPC Section 4.8 (Undesirable effects). 
The following warning has been included in the SmPC Section 4.4 (Special 
warnings and precautions for use): In women with generally recognized risk 
factors  for  thromboembolic  events,  such  as  a  personal  or  family  history, 
severe  obesity  (Body  Mass  Index  >  30  kg/m2)  or  thrombophilia,  treatment 
with  gonadotropins  may  further  increase  this  risk.  In  these  women  the 
benefits of gonadotropin administration need to be weighed against the risks. 
It  should  be  noted,  however,  that  pregnancy  itself  also  carries  an  increased 
risk of thrombosis. 
The following warning has been included in the SmPC Section 4.4 (Special 
warnings  and  precautions  for  use):  There  have  been  reports  of  ovarian  and 
other reproductive system neoplasms, both benign and malignant, in women 
who have undergone multiple treatment regimens for infertility treatment. It 
is not yet established whether or not treatment with gonadotropins increases 
the baseline risk of these tumours in infertile women. 
38/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important Missing / Limited Information 
Use  of  Org  36286  in 
combination  with 
a 
GnRH agonist protocol 
None 
Use  of  Org  36286  in 
patients  with 
renal 
impairment 
None 
Use  of  Org  36286  in 
patients 
risk 
factors  for  high  ovarian 
response 
having 
None 
Use of Org 36286 during 
pregnancy and lactation 
None 
Restricted indication: 
Controlled  Ovarian  Stimulation  (COS)  in  combination  with  a  GnRH 
antagonist for the development of multiple follicles in women participating in 
an Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) program. 
The following text has been  included in the SmPC Section 4.2: 
•  The  recommended  doses  of  Org  36286  have  only  been  established  in  a 
treatment regimen with a GnRH antagonist (see also section 4.4). 
In  section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  (Special  warnings  and  precautions  for  use),  the 
following additional information is included: 
•  There  are  limited  data  on  the  use of  Elonva  in  combination  with  a  GnRH 
agonist.  Results  of  a  small  uncontrolled  study  suggest  a  higher  ovarian 
response than in combination with a GnRH antagonist. Therefore, Elonva is 
not recommended in combination with a GnRH agonist (see also section 4.2). 
In  section  4.2  of  the  SmPC  (Posology  and  method  of  administration),  the 
following information is included: 
•  Special  populations:  Renal  impairment:  No  clinical  studies  have  been 
performed  in  patients  with  renal  insufficiency.  Since  the  elimination  of 
corifollitropin alfa might be impaired in patients with renal insufficiency, the 
use of Elonva in these women is not recommended (see section 4.4 and 5.2). 
The following warning has been  included in the SmPC Section 4.4: 
• In patients with mild,  moderate or  severe renal insufficiency the excretion 
of  corifollitropin  alfa  might  be  impaired.  Therefore,  the  use  of  Elonva  in 
these women is not recommended. 
In  section  5.2  of  the  SmPC  (Pharmacokinetic  properties),  the  following 
information is included: 
•  Distribution,  metabolism  and  elimination  of  corifollitropin  alfa  are  very 
similar to other gonadotropins, such as FSH, hCG and LH. After absorption 
into the blood, corifollitropin alfa is distributed mainly to the ovaries and the 
kidneys. 
Elimination of corifollitropin alfa predominantly occurs via the kidneys and 
may be impaired in patients with renal insufficiency (see section 4.2 and 4.4). 
The following contraindications have been included in the SmPC Section 4.3 
(Contraindications): 
• Ovarian cysts or enlarged ovaries. 
• A history of Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome (OHSS). 
• A previous COS cycle that resulted in more than 30 follicles > 11 mm on 
ultrasound scan. 
• A basal antral follicle count > 20. 
The following warning has been  included in the SmPC Section 4.4: 
• Elonva has not been studied in patients with PCOS. In these women the use 
of Elonva is not recommended. 
• The ovarian response was shown to be higher after treatment with Elonva 
than  after  treatment  with  daily  recFSH.  Therefore,  women  with  known  risk 
factors  for  a  high  ovarian  response  may  be  especially  prone  to  the 
development  of  OHSS  during  or  following  treatment  with  Elonva.  For 
women having their first cycle of ovarian stimulation, for whom risk factors 
are  only  partially  known,  careful  monitoring  for  potential  ovarian 
hyperresponse is recommended. 
The following text has been  included in the SmPC Section 4.6: 
Pregnancy 
No  teratogenic  risk  has  been  reported,  following  controlled  ovarian 
stimulation, in clinical use with gonadotropins. When inadvertent exposure to 
corifollitropin alfa during pregnancy occurs, clinical data are not sufficient to 
exclude  an  adverse  outcome  of  pregnancy.  In  animal  studies  reproductive 
toxicity  has  been  observed  (see  preclinical  safety  data  in  Section  5.3).  The 
use of Elonva during pregnancy is not indicated. 
Breast-feeding 
The use of Elonva during breast feeding is not indicated. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
39/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.6.  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
In general, the different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply 
with  existing  guidelines.  The  fermentation  and  purification  of  the  drug  substance  are  adequately 
described,  controlled  and  validated.  The  drug  substance  is  well  characterised,  using  state-of  the-art 
methods,  and  appropriate  specifications  are  set.  The  manufacturing  process  of  the  drug  product  has 
been satisfactorily described and validated. The quality of the drug product is controlled by adequate 
test methods and specifications. Viral safety and safety concerning other adventitious agents including 
TSE have been sufficiently assured. Except for a number of points, which will be addressed as part of 
post-approval follow-up measures, the overall Quality of Elonva is considered acceptable. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
An  adequate  non-clinical  programme  has  been  conducted  for  corifollitropin  alfa.  The  preclinical 
observations  did  not  raise  major  concerns  against  the  use  of  corifollitropin  alfa  in  humans  at  the 
proposed clinical use. 
Preclinical  data  from  conventional  studies  of  single  and  repeated  dose  toxicity  and  safety 
pharmacology  revealed  no  special  hazard  for  humans.  Reproduction  toxicology  studies  in  rats  and 
rabbits indicated that corifollitropin alfa does not affect fertility. Administration of corifollitropin alfa 
to  rats  and  rabbits,  prior  to  and  directly  after  mating,  and  during  early  pregnancy,  resulted  in 
embryotoxicity. In rabbits, when administered prior to mating, teratogenicity has been observed. Both 
embryotoxicity  and  teratogenicity  are  considered  a  consequence  of  the  superovulatory  state  of  the 
animal not able to support a number of embryos above a physiological ceiling. The relevance of these 
findings for the clinical use of Elonva is limited. 
This information has been added to the SPC (section 5.3). 
Efficacy 
Justification of the dose 
The dose-finding trial 38826 failed to demonstrate  an optimal dose. Subsequently, an extensive PK-
PD  modelling  has  been  performed  taking  into  account  pharmacodynamic  and  efficacy  parameters. 
Based on its outcome, it was concluded that the recommended dose for the Phase III clinical program 
of Elonva was 100 μg for subjects with body weight ≤ 60 kg and 150 μg for subjects with body weight 
> 60 kg. Drug exposure was expected to be similar by the applicant in these predefined body weight 
groups. Dose selection is adequate, though it might be argued that instead of 150 μg, a 125 μg could 
have  been  chosen  for  subjects  with  body  weight  >  60  kg  as  it  is  predicted  to  be  only  slightly  less 
efficacious (mean number of oocytes 12.4 for 150 μg and 13.2 for 125 μg). 
Key efficacy findings 
• 
In the controlled phase III study 38819, performed in females of couples with an indication for 
COS and IVF or ICSI with a body weight > 60 and ≤ 90 kg, 1509 subjects were randomized and 
embryo transfer was performed in 1367 subjects. The primary endpoint ‘ongoing pregnancy rate 
assessed at least ten weeks after embryo transfer’ was 38.9% for 150 μg Elonva and 38.1% for 200 
IU recFSH (Puregon). Non-inferiority was adequately shown for the primary endpoint, as the 95% 
CI of the difference in pregnancy rates 0.9% [-3.9;5.7] between Elonva and recFSH excludes the 
predefined non-inferiority margin of -8%. 
The co-primary endpoint ‘number of oocytes retrieved’ was 13.7 for 150 μg Elonva and 12.5 for 
recFSH (Puregon). Equivalence for the co-primary endpoint was adequately shown, as the 95% CI 
of  the  difference  in  number  of  oocytes  retrieved  1.2  [0.5;1.9]  fell  entirely  within  the  predefined 
equivalence margin of -3; +5 oocytes.  
40/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary endpoint was requested by the FDA and the co-primary endpoint by the EMEA. Both 
endpoints  are  considered  acceptable  as  well  as  the  corresponding  predefined  non-inferiority 
margin and equivalence margin. 
The starting dose of 200 IU recFSH in the comparator group, the possibility of dose adjustment 
from stimulation day 6 onwards and the maximum dose of 200 IU are considered acceptable. 
No  clinically  relevant  differences  were  observed  between  both  treatment  groups  regarding 
secondary efficacy endpoints: the number of metaphase II oocytes, fertilization rate, mean number 
of good quality (Grade 1 and 2) embryos, mean number of good quality embryos transferred and 
mean implantation rate. The secondary efficacy analyses were supportive of the primary and co-
primary endpoint.  
• 
In the controlled phase III study 107012, performed in females of couples with an indication for 
COS  and  IVF  or  ICSI  with  a  body  weight  ≤  60  kg,  396  subjects  were  randomized  and  embryo 
transfer was performed in 367 subjects. The primary endpoint ‘number of oocytes retrieved’ was 
13.3  for 100  μg  Elonva  and  10.6  for  150  IU  recFSH  (Puregon).  Equivalence  for  the  co-primary 
endpoint was adequately shown, as the 95% CI of the difference in number of oocytes retrieved 
2.5 [1.2; 3.9] fell entirely within the predefined equivalence margin of -3; +5 oocytes. The primary 
endpoint  was  acceptable,  although  preferably  ‘ongoing  pregnancy  rate’  would  have  been 
incorporated as primary endpoint as well. The rationale of the applicant to power only one study 
for  pregnancy  rate  is  understandable,  and  agreed  as  the  EMEA  asked  for  ‘number  of  oocytes 
retrieved’.  Including  ‘ongoing  pregnancy  rate’  as  primary  endpoint  would  have  led  to  a  sample 
size at least 3-4 fold higher. 
The starting dose of 150 IU recFSH, the maximum dose of 200 IU recFSH and the possibility of 
dose adjustment from stimulation day 6 onwards are considered acceptable. 
The clinically most relevant secondary endpoint ‘ongoing pregnancy rate’ was 25.4% for 100 μg 
Elonva  and  34.4%  for  150  IU  recFSH.  The  difference  is  9.2%  [-18.9;  0.5]  in  favour  of  150  IU 
recFSH,  and  this  difference  is  considered  substantial.  The  applicant  discussed  differences  in 
patient history and baseline characteristics, stimulation characteristics and fertilization procedures 
and  embryo  transfer  between  the  two  treatment  groups.  None  of  these  factors  could  explain  the 
observed  difference  in  pregnancy  rates.  Thus,  the  observed  difference  is  most  likely  a  chance 
finding. Reassuring is the  larger 38819 trial, with similar variables  as 107012, which revealed a 
similar pregnancy rate for Elonva and Puregon. 
No clinically relevant differences were observed between both treatment groups in the number of 
metaphase  II  oocytes,  fertilization  rate,  mean  number  of  good  quality  (Grade  1  and  2)  embryos 
and  mean  number  of  good  quality  embryos  transferred.  The  implantation  rate,  biochemical  and 
clinical pregnancies, vital pregnancy rates and  miscarriage rate are in line with the difference in 
ongoing pregnancy rate in favour of recFSH treatment. 
Safety 
The overall incidence in subjects experiencing at least one AE and subjects with drug-related AEs was 
comparable  between  the  treatment  groups  in  the  two  Phase  III  trials.  However,  the  subjects  who 
discontinued due  to  AEs  in  trial  38819  were  higher  for  the  150  μg  Elonva  group  versus  the  200  IU 
recFSH  group.  No  clinically  relevant  differences  were  detected  for  the  frequently  reported  AEs 
between the treatment groups (pelvic pain, pelvic discomfort, headache and nausea). In addition, the 
overall  incidence  of  subjects  with  SAEs  was  also  comparable  between  the  treatment  groups  within 
each  study.  No  clinically  relevant  differences  were  observed  in  these  SAEs,  apart  from  the  slightly 
higher incidence of OHSS after Elonva treatment.  
Drug-related AEs that were most frequently reported were Pelvic discomfort, OHSS, Headache, Pelvic 
Pain, Nausea and Fatigue. The incidences were very similar between the four treatment groups; 100 
μg Elonva, 150 IU recFSH, 150 μg Elonva and 200 IU recFSH, except for a slightly higher incidence 
of OHSS. 
OHSS represents one of the most serious complications in ART. The incidence of early-onset OHSS, 
which  is  associated  with  an  excessive  ovarian  response,  was  higher  after  Elonva  treatment  in  both 
completed  Phase  III  studies:  3.0%  vs.  1.6%  for  subjects  treated  with  100  μg  Elonva  and  150  IU 
41/43 
 
 
 
 
 
recFSH (trial 107012), respectively, and 5.2% vs. 4.0% for subjects treated with 150 μg Elonva and 
200 IU recFSH (trial 38819), respectively. In addition, the OHSS observed is more severe after Elonva 
compared to Puregon, and more often led to discontinuation (1.6% vs. 0.1% in trial 38819). 
The  slightly  higher  incidence  of  OHSS  with  Elonva  treatment  is  considered  acceptable,  taking  into 
account the results of the ongoing Phase III study (3.5% OHSS), the fact that all women had recovered 
by the end of the trials, and the fact that there is no relation between race and OHSS, nor body weight 
and OHSS. In addition, the difference in absolute numbers was small between the Elonva and Puregon 
treatment  groups,  and  the  incidence  of  OHSS  was  comparable  to  what  has  been  reported  in  public 
literature. Appropriate  measures, in line with the  measures taken in the Phase III studies, have been 
taken by the applicant in order to minimise the risk for OHSS: 
1) All women with a history of Ovarian Hyperstimulation Syndrome are included in the list of contra-
indications for use (SPC Section  4.3). 
2) A previous COS cycle that resulted in more than 30 follicles >11 mm on ultrasound scan” has been 
added in the list of contraindications (SPC Section 4.3); 
3)  In  line  with  the  indication  “Controlled  Ovarian  Stimulation  (COS)  in  combination  with  a  GnRH 
antagonist  for  the  development  of  multiple  follicles  in  women  participating  in  an  Assisted 
Reproductive  Technology  (ART)  program”  the  SPC  (SPC  Section  4.4)  includes  a  warning  that 
combined  use  with  a  GnRH-agonist  is  not  recommended  as  the  available  data  are  insufficient  to 
support efficacy and safety of Elonva in a long GnRH agonist protocol. 
It is acceptable that the condition of PCOS is mentioned only in section 4.4. With the inclusion of the 
contra-indications “A basal antral follicle count > 20” and “Ovarian cysts or enlarged ovaries”, women 
with PCOS with polycystic ovaries, who are at risk, are excluded for Elonva treatment. 
Full pregnancy and neonatal follow-up information is available of the pivotal Phase III studies. Data 
was  collected  on  342  (expectant)  mothers  and  440  foetuses  after  Elonva  treatment  and  on  312 
(expectant)  mothers  and  381  foetuses  after  recFSH  treatment.  The  data  do  not  suggest  any  specific 
safety concern for the offspring of Elonva treatment. The other full study reports (38817, 38827 and 
38834)  and  the  interim  study  report  of  the  ongoing  Phase  III  study  (38829)  are  in  support  of  these 
conclusions. The applicant will provide the full study reports of the ongoing pregnancy and neonatal 
follow-up  trial  38829  (including  pregnancy  and  neonatal  outcome)  and  the  FTET  trials  107015  and 
38831, as soon as these studies are finished. The company has accepted a post-approval commitment 
to provide the full study reports as soon as these become available. 
Immunogenicity  was  specifically  assessed  in  the  ongoing  Phase  III  trial  38825  after  repeated 
administration.  It  is  concluded  that  three  patients  are  positive  for  anti-corifollitropin  antibodies,  but 
that  these  antibodies  are  of  low  affinity  and  are  not  neutralizing.  Therefore,  these  antibodies  do  not 
have a clinically relevant effect. Review of the AEs within the SMQ Anaphylactic reactions as well as 
local tolerance scores, and vital sign values 30 minutes after Elonva injection, revealed no clinically 
relevant observations. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having considered the safety concerns in the risk management plan, the CHMP considered that the 
proposed activities described in section 2.5 adequately addressed these. 
•  User consultation 
The readability test was performed in July-August 2008. In the period between September-November 
2008  some  changes  have  been  made  to  the  package  leaflet  which  was  used  in  the  readability  test. 
These changes were mainly editorial (linguistic) improvements and some small changes to the lay-out. 
The applicant included a bridging report in the dossier comparing the version of the leaflet used in the 
readability test and the final leaflet included in the dossier to support a justification for not testing the 
improved leaflet, which was developed in a later stage, after the performance of the readability test; 
however  the  contents,  format,  design  and  layout  of  the  leaflets  are  similar.  The  bridging  report  is 
accepted as a justification for not testing the improved leaflet. 
42/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The user testing of the PL was performed and judged as acceptable. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
Benefits 
The  advantage  of  Elonva  is  that  a  single  injection  of  corifollitropin  alfa  replaces  7  daily  (rec)  FSH 
administrations  in  Controlled  Ovarian  Stimulation,  thereby  improving  patients`  convenience.  The 
efficacy of Elonva is considered comparable to Puregon, as in both trials equivalence was adequately 
shown for the (co-)primary endpoint ‘number of oocytes retrieved’. In addition, non-inferiority for the 
primary endpoint ‘ongoing pregnancy rate’ was established in the largest pivotal trial.  
Risks 
The safety profile of Elonva and daily Puregon was comparable, except for a slightly higher incidence 
of OHSS in the Elonva treatment group. This slightly higher incidence is considered acceptable, taking 
into account that the difference in absolute numbers was small between the treatment groups, and that 
the  overall  incidence  of  OHSS  was  low,  and  comparable  to  what  has  been  reported  in  published 
literature. Also, in line with measures taken in the Phase III studies, appropriate restrictions in its use 
are included in the SPC to minimise the risk for OHSS as much as possible. 
In summary, it is concluded that the B/R balance of Elonva is considered positive. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  Routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product. 
(cid:131)  No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of corifollitropin alfa for use in Controlled Ovarian Stimulation 
(COS)  in  combination  with  a  GnRH  antagonist  for  the  development  of  multiple  follicles  in  women 
participating  in  an  Assisted  Reproductive  Technology  (ART)  program  was  favourable  and  therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
43/43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
