EMA/576191/2022  
EMEA/H/C/001106 
Elonva (corifollitropin alfa) 
An overview of Elonva and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Elonva and what is it used for? 
Elonva is a hormonal medicine used in women who are undergoing fertility treatment to stimulate the 
development of more than one mature egg at a time in the ovaries. It is used together with a 
gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist (another type of medicine used in fertility 
treatments). 
Elonva combined with another hormonal medicine called human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is also 
used to treat adolescent boys aged 14 years and older who have delayed or absent puberty due to 
hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. In adolescent males with this condition, production of the hormones 
that stimulate testicular development is inadequate. Therefore, the testes remain small and produce 
little or no testosterone. This results in delayed or absent pubertal characteristics, and no sperm 
production resulting in problems with fertility.  
Elonva contains the active substance corifollitropin alfa. 
How is Elonva used? 
Elonva can only be obtained with a prescription. In women, treatment should be started under the 
supervision of a doctor experienced in treating fertility problems. In adolescent males, treatment 
should be started and supervised by a doctor experienced in the treatment of hypogonadotropic 
hypogonadism. 
Elonva is given as an injection under the skin. The patient or their partner, parent or caregiver may 
carry out the injection if they have been trained. The dose and frequency of administration of Elonva 
depend on its use and on the patient’s age, weight, and response to treatment. For more information 
about using Elonva, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist.  
How does Elonva work? 
The active substance in Elonva, corifollitropin alfa, is similar to follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), a 
natural hormone. FSH regulates the reproductive function in the body: in women it stimulates the 
growth of eggs in the ovaries and in men it stimulates the maturation of cells that produce 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the 
European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
testosterone and the production of sperm by the testes. In men, it is given in combination with hCG, 
which stimulates the production of testosterone. In corifollitropin alfa, a peptide (a short chain of 
amino acids) is attached to FSH to prolong its activity in the body. As a result, a single dose of the 
medicine is effective for seven days. 
What benefits of Elonva have been shown in studies? 
Ovarian stimulation 
In three main studies involving 3,292 women who needed ovarian stimulation, treatment with a single 
injection of Elonva was as effective as treatment with follitropin beta (an FSH medicine also used to 
stimulate the ovaries) given once daily for seven days.  
One of the studies involved women weighing 60 kg or less who received a 100 microgram dose of 
Elonva, and a second study involved women weighing above 60 kg who received a 150 microgram 
dose. Both these studies involved women aged 18 to 36 years. The main measure of effectiveness for 
these studies was the average number of eggs collected from each woman after treatment. The study 
in women over 60 kg had an additional main effectiveness measure which was the number of women 
with a successful early pregnancy. 
In the first study in women weighing 60 kg or less, the number of eggs collected from each woman 
was 13.3 for those treated with Elonva and 10.6 for those treated with follitropin beta. 
In the second study in women weighing more than 60 kg, the average number of eggs collected from 
each woman was 13.8 in those treated with Elonva compared with 12.6 in those treated with follitropin 
beta. Around 39% of those who received Elonva became pregnant compared with 38% of those 
treated with follitropin beta. 
The third study involved women aged 35 to 42 years weighing 50 kg or more who were given a 
150 microgram dose of Elonva; the main measure of effectiveness in this study was the number of 
women with a successful early pregnancy, and 24 and 27% of women treated with Elonva and 
follitropin beta respectively became pregnant.  
Hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in adolescent boys 
In one main study involving 17 adolescent boys aged 14 years and older with hypogonadotropic 
hypogonadism, Elonva was effective at stimulating development of the testes (measured by an 
increase in testicular volume), which is a sign that the number of cells needed for the production of 
sperm has increased. After a period of 64 weeks of Elonva treatment, 52 of which in combination with 
hCG, the testicular volume increased by around nine times, from an average of 1.4 ml to an average of 
12.9 ml. Further, the addition of hCG resulted in the development of pubertal characteristics, such as 
development of pubic hair and increase in height. 
What are the risks associated with Elonva? 
In women, the most common side effects with Elonva (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are 
headache, nausea (feeling sick), tiredness, pelvic pain and discomfort, breast tenderness and ovarian 
hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS). OHSS occurs when the ovaries over-respond to treatment, 
causing abdominal swelling and pain, nausea and diarrhoea.  
In adolescent boys, the most common side effects with Elonva (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
are vomiting, hot flushes and injection site pain. 
For the full list of side effects of Elonva, see the package leaflet. 
Elonva (corifollitropin alfa)  
EMA/576191/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Elonva must not be used in patients with tumours of the ovary, breast, womb, pituitary (a gland 
located at the base of the brain that produces FSH) or hypothalamus (a region of the brain). It must 
also not be used in women with abnormal (not menstrual) vaginal bleeding without a known cause, 
fibroids or malformations of the womb that would prevent pregnancy, primary ovarian failure, enlarged 
ovaries or ovaries with cysts, or in women with risk factors for OHSS such as polycystic ovarian 
syndrome. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Elonva authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Elonva’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Elonva? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Elonva have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Elonva are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Elonva are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Elonva 
Elonva received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union on 25 January 2010.  
Further information on Elonva can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/elonva.  
This overview was last updated in 05-2022. 
Elonva (corifollitropin alfa)  
EMA/576191/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
