PART VI  SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN BY PRODUCT 
Summary of risk management plan for Elonva (corifollitropin alfa) 
The Summary of Safety Concerns for corifollitropin alfa does not include any Important 
Identified Risks, Important Potential Risks or Missing Information. 
Elonva's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Elonva should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Elonva should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns will be included in updates of Elonva’s RMP. 
I.
The Medicine and What it is Used for
Elonva is authorised for Controlled Ovarian Stimulation (COS) in combination with a 
gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonist for the development of multiple follicles 
in women participating in an Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) program and for the 
treatment of adolescent males (14 years and older) with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, in 
combination with human Chorionic Gonadotropin (hCG) (see SmPC for the full indication). 
It contains corifollitropin alfa as the active substance and it is given by solution for injection. 
Further information about the evaluation of Elonva’s benefits can be found in Elonva’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/000743/h
uman_med_000860.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124 
II.
Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further
Characterise the Risks
The Summary of Safety Concerns for corifollitropin alfa does not include any Important 
Identified Risks, Important Potential Risks or Missing Information. 
Information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and regularly analysed, 
including Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) assessment, so that immediate action can 
be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Elonva are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Elonva. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
The Summary of Safety Concerns for corifollitropin alfa does not include any Important 
Identified Risks, Important Potential Risks or Missing Information. 
Table II.A.1: 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None 
None 
II.B
Summary of Important Risks 
The Summary of Safety Concerns for corifollitropin alfa does not include any Important 
Identified Risks, Important Potential Risks or Missing Information as there are no important 
safety concerns for which prospective additional pharmacovigilance or additional risk 
minimization activities are warranted.  
Corifollitropin alfa has been marketed since 2010 and 341,190 doses have been distributed 
cumulatively through 18-APR-2018. The safety profile has been well-characterised during 
that time and adverse events that have been reported from clinical trials, non-interventional 
studies and post-approval safety surveillance analysis are included in the SmPC.  There are 
no studies planned or warranted to further characterise any identified or potential risk that 
would alter the established risk-benefit profile for corifollitropin alfa. There are also no 
additional risk minimisation activities planned or warranted beyond communication of the 
safety profile in the SmPC and the Patient Leaflet. The safety profile of corifollitropin alfa 
will continue to be monitored via routine pharmacovigilance, including utilization of the 
OHSS post-marketing questionnaire. Therefore, there are no longer any important identified 
or potential risks or missing information associated with corifollitropin alfa to be addressed 
in the RMP.  
In conclusion, continued spontaneous safety surveillance will continue to be sufficient to 
monitor the safety profile and labeling will continue to provide sufficient routine risk 
minimisation for the post-marketing use of corifollitropin alfa. 
II.C
Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of Elonva. 
II.C.2 
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for Elonva. 
