SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Emadine. This scientific 
discussion has been updated until 1 October 2003.  For  information  on changes after this date 
please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
This application has been submitted and evaluated under the Centralised procedure on the basis that it 
contains  a  new  active  substance,  emedastine  INN,  a  selective  and  topical  histamine  H1  antagonist 
developed  for  ophthalmic  use  in  the  symptomatic  treatment  of  seasonal  allergic  conjunctivitis.  The 
indication  applies  to  adult  patients  as  well  as  children  older  than  3  years,  and  the  recommended 
posology is two instillations of a 0.05% w/v solution per day. Emedastine was initially developed for 
systemic  use  by  the  Japanese  company  Nippon  Organon,  and  is  currently  marketed  in  Japan  for 
allergic rhinitis and urticaria with a posology of 2 mg orally twice daily.  
Ocular allergy is a chronic disease that represents one of the most frequent allergic reactions and one 
of  the  most  frequent  clinical  problems  encountered  by  ophthalmologists  or  allergists.  The  disease 
affects  people  of  all  ages,  with  no  difference  in  sex  distribution.  The  largest  group  of  allergic 
conjunctivitis  is  associated  with  environmental  allergens.  The  importance  of  ocular  allergy  is  due 
more to repeated occurrence than to seriousness.  
Serious  sequelae  (e.g.  eye  involvement)  are  extremely  rare  in  patients  with  seasonal  or  perennial 
conjunctivitis although the quality of life of patients may be highly affected due to the frequency and 
duration  of  the  disease.  Some  patient  may  experience  seasonal  allergic  conditions  or  year-round 
symptoms. 
The most prevalent forms of ocular allergies are Seasonal Allergic Conjunctivitis (SAC) and Perennial 
Allergic  Conjunctivitis  (PAC),  respectively  defined  by  the  duration  of  irritation  of  the  offending 
allergens. It is considered that this is not a disease, which requires chronic use of ophthalmic drugs – 
i.e.  the patients use the  drug  for some  days or weeks, once or a few times during the  year. The best 
management  of SAC  and  PAC  would  consist  of  identifying  the  antigen  responsible  for  the  allergic 
response and avoiding exposure to the antigen. However, it is generally recognised that it is difficult to 
adequately  control  the  environmental  variables  in  allergic  conjunctivitis.  Therefore,  besides  a 
traditional clinical  development plan, the applicant  has used an alternative  approach: - studies based 
on  the  Conjunctival  Allergen  Challenge  (CAC),  also  known  as  the  Conjunctival  Provocation  Test 
(CPT). In the CAC  model, asymptomatic  allergic patients are  given a predetermined topical dose  of 
allergen  to  induce  an  allergic  reaction  under  standardised  conditions.  On  this  particular  point  of 
development, Alcon sought the advice of the CPMP who replied that they could accept CAC studies 
as evidence of efficacy provided that the CAC model was fully validated by clinical data.  
Alternative  topical  ocular antiallergic treatments include  cromolyn  sodium, steroids  (although  major 
side effects do not allow chronic use as requested for this disease), NSAIDs (however not recognised 
in this indication in all EU countries at present) and antihistamines, which act by blocking histamine 
H1 receptors. Very few antihistamine compounds have been developed for topical ocular use, however 
topical levocabastine 0.05 % is one of these compounds currently authorised in the EU, and it has been 
used as a comparator product in some of the clinical studies. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
EMADINE  is  authorised  as  EMADINE  0.05%  w/v,  eye  drops,  solution  in  multidose  presentations 
(EMADINE MD) and EMADINE 0.05% eye drops, solution, single-dose container (EMADINE SD). 
EMADINE 0.05% w/v, eye drops, solution (EMADINE MD) 
Composition 
Emadine Eye drops are presented as a buffered, preserved, sterile, multi dose solution of 0.0884% w/v 
emedastine difumarate equivalent to 0.05% w/v emedastine.  
1/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other ingredients include the preservative benzalkonium chloride 0.01%  w/v, the buffer trometamol, 
sodium chloride, hypromellose 2900, hydrochloric acid and/or sodium hydroxide for the adjustment of 
pH,  and  purified  water.  All  ingredients  with  the  exception  of  the  active  substance  comply  with 
relevant PhEur  monographs. Clinical trial formulations containing the  equivalent of 0.005%, 0.01%, 
0.05%, 0.1% and 0.5% emedastine were developed for clinical dose response studies. 
No overage is introduced. 
Container 
The 5 or 10 ml bottle is an opaque, low-density polyethylene (LDPE) bottle, with a LDPE dispensing 
plug, a white polypropylene closure and an extended ‘skirt’ that locks to the bottle. 
Development pharmaceutics  
Emedastine  difumarate  is  very  soluble  in  water.  Preformulation  studies  supported  by  toxicology 
studies  were  carried  out  to  optimise  the  formulation  so  that  the  resulting  product  is  stable,  isotonic, 
well-preserved and non-irritant solution with a pH of ca. 7.4. 
The  choice  of  the  concentration  of  benzalkonium  chloride  (BAC)  as  a  preservative  was  based  on 
standard  preservative  efficacy  studies;  at  release,  the  product  complies  with  PhEur  criteria  A  (also 
complies with 80% of the stated amount of BAC), although after 1 year storage B criteria are met. The 
manufacture  of the  eye  drops is based  on  a sterile  filtration process since terminal sterilisation  by  a 
thermal  method  may  result  in  distortion  and  differential  shrinkage  of  the  composite  container, 
resulting in increased probability of subsequent leaking and sterility failure. 
Manufacturing process 
The equipment is steam sterilised, and sterilisation of packaging components is by ethylene oxide, EO. 
(EO-related residues are limited to < 1ppm) 
Hypromellose and benzalkonium chloride are dissolved in purified water and steam sterilised. 
Trometamol,  sodium  chloride  and  emedastine  difumarate  are  dissolved  in  purified  water,  with  pH 
adjustment if necessary, bioburden tested, and subjected to double sterile filtration (0.2 µ) After final 
volume adjustment, the solution is aseptically filled into sterile bottles, and fitted with sterile plugs and 
closures. 
Relevant  microbiological  in-process  control  includes  raw  materials  <  100  CFU/ml  or  /g,  water  
< 1 CFU/100 ml, hypromellose/BAC solution < 100 CFU/ml, bulk emedastine solution < 10 CFU/100 
ml, and filter integrity. Maximum holding times are defined and validated. 
Process validation 
The  critical  stages  in  the  manufacturing  process  have  been  validated  by  means  of  chemical  and 
(micro) biological tests 
Active substance 
Information on the active substance has been supplied in the form of a DMF from the manufacturer, 
Nippon  Organon  KK,  Japan.  Confidential  information  in  the  ‘closed’  part  of  the  DMF  has  been 
evaluated without disclosure to the marketing authorisation applicant. 
Emedastine  INN  is:  1-(2-Ethoxyethyl)-2-(hexahydro-4-methyl-1H-1,4-diazepin-1-yl)-benzimidazole, 
MWt 302.2, presented in this formulation as the difumarate salt, MWt 534.57. It has no chiral centres 
or  geometric/structural  isomers. Two polymorphs are  known, although this  has  no  consequences  for 
the product as the active substance is in solution. Emedastine is manufactured by a 4-stage synthesis 
with relevant control of intermediates. 
Active substance specification  
The  main  purity  specifications  have  been  set  at  98.5-101%  on  an  anhydrous  basis,  with  no  known 
impurity  greater  than  0.2%  and  no  unknown  impurity  greater  than  0.1%.  The  specified  limits  for 
impurities in the  active substance  have been justified  by  reference to toxicology  studies and the low 
systemic exposures expected during normal use of the product, and are in agreement with CPMP/ICH 
2/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
guidance on this subject. Residual solvents are also specified at a suitably low level in agreement with 
CPMP/ICH guidance. 
Appropriate microbiological control is performed with a suitable limit for bioburden. 
Other ingredients 
Satisfactory information has been provided on the excipients present in the formulation which are all 
of PhEur quality. Specifications for container materials are satisfactory. 
Product specification 
The  specification  for  content  of  active  substance  at  release  is  95  –  105%  of  label,  and  a  slightly 
broader  specification  which  does  not  compromise  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  product  has  been 
established  for  the  end  of  shelflife.  Degradation  products  are  controlled  as  related  substances  at 
release, although as usual, a higher limit for these substances is allowed at end of shelflife, justified by 
reference to stability studies, toxicology studies and the low exposures expected during normal use of 
the product.  
The preservative, BAC is controlled at release within the limits 90 – 110% of the stated amount, and 
these  limits  also  apply  at  the  end  of  shelflife.  (Satisfactory  preservative  efficacy  has  been 
demonstrated for product containing BAC at a level of 80% of the stated amount). 
Other tests include pH, osmolality, colour, visual clarity, viscosity, particulate matter, and sterility. 
All control methods have been validated in a satisfactory way. 
Stability of the product 
Stability of the Active Substance 
On the basis of the data submitted, the active substance appears to be very stable. 
It is stable to high temperature (up to 50°C) and high humidity (75%) for six months. 
It is unaffected by light stress (1000 lux) for six months. Long term studies have been carried out over 
3 years. Overall, the data support the proposed retest period of 3 years. 
Stability of the finished product 
Stability data for six stability lots filled in the proposed marketing containers have been generated 
under ICH conditions. Batch results support shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SPC. 
EMADINE 0.05% eye drops, solution, single-dose container (EMADINE SD) 
Composition 
EMADINE SD eye drops solution (single-dose) is a buffered, unpreserved, sterile ophthalmic solution 
of 0.0884% emedastine difumarate equivalent to 0.05% w/v emedastine, 0.5 mg/ml. Other ingredients 
include the buffer trometamol, sodium chloride, hypromellose 2900, hydrochloric acid and/or sodium 
hydroxide  for  the  adjustment  of  pH,  and  purified  water.  All  ingredients  with  the  exception  of  the 
active substance comply with relevant PhEur monographs. No overage is introduced. (The quantitative 
composition of this single-dose form is the same as the multidose form of EMADINE, except that it 
contains no preservative). 
The  product  is  packaged  in  single  units  of  a  low-density  polyethylene  BFS  dispenser  (  "Blow-Fill-
Seal”). The package system is comprised of five 0.35ml single-dose dispensers presented in a single 
strip. The primary package is overwrapped in an aluminium laminate pouch  which is used to protect 
from light, control water loss on storage and to provide evidence of use ( ‘tampering’). 
3/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active substance 
Information on the active substance has been supplied in the form of a DMF from the manufacturer, 
Nippon  Organon  KK,  Japan.  Confidential  information  in  the  ‘closed’  part  of  the  DMF  has  been 
evaluated without disclosure to the marketing authorisation applicant. 
Emedastine  INN  is:  1-(2-Ethoxyethyl)-2-(hexahydro-4-methyl-1H-1,4-diazepin-1-yl)-benzimidazole, 
MWt 302.2, presented in this formulation as the difumarate salt, MWt 534.57. It has no chiral centres 
or  geometric/structural  isomers. Two polymorphs are  known, although this  has  no  consequences  for 
the product as the active substance is in solution. Emedastine is manufactured by a 4-stage synthesis 
with relevant control of intermediates. 
Active Substance Specification  
The  main  purity  specifications  have  been  set  at  98.5-101%  on  an  anhydrous  basis,  with  no  known 
impurity  greater  than  0.1%  and  no  unknown  impurity  greater  than  0.1%.  The  specified  limits  for 
impurities in the  active substance  have been justified  by  reference to toxicology studies and the low 
systemic exposures expected during normal use of the product, and are in agreement with CPMP/ICH 
guidance on this subject. Residual solvents are also specified at a suitably low level in agreement with 
CPMP/ICH guidance. 
Appropriate microbiological control is performed with a suitable limit for bioburden. 
Stability 
On the basis of the data submitted, the active substance appears to be very stable. 
It is stable to high temperature (up to 50°C) for three months and high humidity (75%) for six months. 
It is unaffected by light stress (1000 lux) for six months. Long term studies have been carried out over 
3 years. Overall, the data support the proposed retest period of 3 years. 
Other ingredients 
Satisfactory information has been provided on the excipients present in the formulation which are all 
of PhEur quality. The container material of the primary package complies with the Ph.Eur 
specifications for LDPE. 
Product development and finished product 
Concerning  the  pharmaceutical  development  of  the  single-dose  form  of  EMADINE,  there  is  a 
qualitative  and  quantitative  justification  of  all  the  excipients  based  on  stability  data  and  safety 
considerations  already  established  for  the  multidose  form.  The  omission  of  the  preservative 
benzalkonium  chloride precludes  a  multidose presentation, and necessitates presentation in  a single-
dose form. During the stability studies, a degradation product: emedastine N-oxide is identified; it has 
already been justified for the multidose form. Emedastine N-Oxide is a potential degradation product 
in the multidose form but also a metabolite. 
The  manufacturing  process  is  similar  to  that  for  the  multidose  form.  Equipment  is  steam  sterilized. 
Hypromellose is dissolved in purified water and the solution is steam sterilised. 
Trometamol,  sodium  chloride  and  emedastine  difumarate  are  dissolved  in  purified  water,  with  pH 
adjustment if necessary, bioburden tested, and subjected to double sterile filtration (0.2 µ) After final 
volume adjustment, with addition of purified water via the sterilisation filters, the solution is filled into 
single-dose LDPE dispensers by BFS technology, and overwrapped.  
Relevant  microbiological  inprocess  control  includes  raw  materials  <  100  CFU/ml  or  /g,  water  <  1 
CFU/100 ml, hypromellose solution < 100 CFU/ml, bulk emedastine solution < 10 CFU/100 ml, and 
filter integrity. Maximum holding times are defined and validated. 
Product Specification 
The  specification  for  content  of  active  substance  at  release  is  95  –  105%  of  label,  and  a  slightly 
broader  specification,  which  does  not  compromise  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  product,  has  been 
established  for  the  end  of  shelflife.  Degradation  products  are  controlled  as  related  substances  at 
release, although as usual, a higher limit for these substances is allowed at end of shelflife, justified by 
4/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reference to stability studies, toxicology studies and the low exposures expected during normal use of 
the product.  
Other tests include pH, osmolality, colour, visual clarity, viscosity, particulate matter, and sterility. All 
control methods have been validated in a satisfactory way. 
Batch analysis data indicate a uniform product complying with the agreed specification. 
Stability of the Product 
Results  have  been  generated  by  validated,  stability-indicating  methods  and  indicate  satisfactory 
stability in solution. Six batches, up to 200 kg, have been tested in studies under ICH conditions up to 
12  months  at  the  time  of  submission.  Storage  conditions  included  25oC  and  30oC  at  60%RH. 
Accelerated studies were carried out at 40 oC low RH (40%). 
Degradation  products  have  been  justified  with  reference  to  toxicology  studies,  and  the  results  in 
general justify the unopened shelflife as proposed in the SPC. 
Unlike  the  multidose  form  of  EMADINE,  each  single-dose  unit  has  no  preservative,  and  should 
therefore be used immediately and discarded. Results of stability studies on samples outside the pouch 
showed that  the  first  degradation  products  were  detected  at  low  levels  at  five  days  and  the  product 
remained within shelf-life specifications for up to 10 days. Therefore, as an additional precaution, the 
SPC recommends that each single-dose unit should be used within 7 days after opening the pouch. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Benzalkonium  chloride,  whilst  being  the  most  commonly  used  preservative  in  ophthalmic  products 
such  as  EMADINE  multidose,  does  have  its  own  side  effects  (  e.g.  irritation)  in  certain  patients. 
Therefore, this single-dose form of EMADINE has been developed to meet a need for a more tolerable 
preservative-free formulation. 
The  quality  characteristics  of  this  product  are  almost  identical  to  those  for  the  multidose  form  of 
EMADINE,  e.g.  same  active  substance,  similar  manufacturing  process  apart  from  the  final  filling, 
sealing and overwrapping stages, similar specifications, etc.  
One  difference  is  in  the  appearance  of  the  N-oxide  degradant  in  the  single-dose  form.  This  was 
detected  in  the  original  EMADINE  multidose  studies  but  not  present  to  a  significant  extent  in  the 
product. However, it seems that the selected type of primary packaging material chosen for the single-
dose form (LDPE) is more permeable to oxygen than the selected one for EMADINE multidose. This 
may  explain  why the N-oxide  degradant appears in this new  dosage  form  and justifies the use  of an 
overpouch. 
In  summary,  the  manufacture  and  control  of  the  active  substance  and  finished  product  have  been 
validated,  and  indicate  satisfactory  product  uniformity  at  release.  Quality  characteristics  relevant  to 
clinical use have been investigated during the shelflife studies, and are satisfactory for an ophthalmic 
product of this type. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
EMADINE 0.05% w/v, eye drops, solution (EMADINE MD) 
Pharmacodynamics 
Pharmacodynamic preclinical studies have been well conducted. A complete battery of in vitro and in 
vivo  assays  demonstrates  that  emedastine  difumarate  is  a  topically  active,  selective  and  potent  H1 
histamine  receptor  antagonist.  A  clear  separation  exists  between  doses  of  emedastine  with 
antihistaminic/antiallergic  effects and those  exhibiting effects on the  central nervous,  cardiovascular, 
respiratory, and gastrointestinal systems.  
- 
- 
no  significant  interaction  was  noted  between  emedastine  and  alpha  adrenergic, dopamine  D2, 
serotonin S2, and numerous other receptors; emedastine is devoid of muscarinic or adrenergic 
effects.  
at effective  antihistamine  concentrations,  emedastine does not affect  general behaviour,  motor 
activity, nor has any neuropharmacologic activity (the psychotropic product profile is near that 
5/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of ketotifen without local anaesthetic activity) or effects on the cardiovascular, respiratory, and 
gastrointestinal systems, indicating minimal side effect potential. 
- 
its antihistamine profile is close to that of ketotifen  
No electrophysiological studies have been described in the dossier.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Ocular Route 
After  topical  ocular  administration  emedastine  penetrates  the  anterior  chamber  and  distributes  to 
various  ocular  tissues.  Emedastine  is  generally  cleared  rapidly  from  eye  structures  except  with 
pigmented tissues (iris-ciliary body) where a greater uptake and a prolonged retention were observed 
(t½ 23 days). This observation is not unexpected and logically explained by binding of emedastine to 
melanin.  
Oral Route 
Numerous toxicology studies of the preclinical program were conducted using the oral route:  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
repeated  dose  studies  (rat  and  dog),  reproduction  toxicity  studies  (rat  and  rabbit)  and 
carcinogenicity studies (rat and mouse). The results allow the following conclusions –  
emedastine is almost totally absorbed after oral administration to rat, dog and guinea pig.  
the absolute bioavailability is about 50% in this latter species and extremely low in rat and dog 
(4 to 5 %) due to an extensive first pass effect.  
Tissue  distribution  in  rat  showed  a  slight  uptake  by  brain  (less  than 0.5%)  of  the  total  radio-
activity, a low foetal exposure (about 1% of the total dose) in pregnant rats and moderate milk 
secretion in this species.  
Binding to plasma proteins was assessed to be about 40% in rat and dog and 80% in guinea pig. 
Metabolism  was  investigated  in  rat,  guinea  pig  and  dog.  In  all  these  species  emedastine  was 
extensively metabolised in the liver with important qualitative interspecies differences. A slight 
induction of hepatic enzymes was observed in rat. 
emedastine  was  shown  to  be  almost  completely  eliminated  within  96  hours  in  rats.  The 
elimination is balanced between urinary (40%) and fecal routes (60%). 
Toxicokinetics  of  emedastine by  oral route in species  included in the  main toxicity studies is poorly 
documented.  The  lack  of  toxicokinetic  data  was  regarded  as  a  deficiency  of  the  dossier,  but  the 
applicant  has  provided  evidence  of  sufficient  exposure  of  the  animals  in  terms  of  plasma 
concentrations.  Moreover, there is some  evidence that  emedastine  does  not  accumulate significantly 
over time. 
Toxicology 
General comments concerning the toxicological evaluation of emedastine: 
Toxicological studies have been conducted in mice, rats, dogs, rabbits and monkeys. 
Pharmacological activity has been mainly evaluated in guinea pigs.  
Evaluation  of  toxicity  following  systemic  administration  used  emedastine  in  distilled  water.  For 
topical  application  the  clinical  formulation  was  not  always  utilised.  However,  the  six-month  topical 
ocular  evaluation  in  monkeys  did  use  the  final  formulation  of  emedastine  (except  for  a  minor 
modification, ie hypromellose 2910 instead of hypromellose 2900).  
Five  impurities  have  been  identified  in  emedastine  raw  material.  Due  to  the  low  amount  of  these 
impurities in batches of emedastine, it is unlikely that these products are of toxicological significance.  
Toxicology studies were conducted in compliance with GLP.  
Single dose toxicity 
6/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acute toxicity studies have been correctly performed. 
Acute  toxic  signs  in  mice  and  rats  included  a  decrease  in  spontaneous  movements,  ataxic  gait  and 
convulsions.  
Repeated dose toxicity 
Oral administration 
In  rats, liver toxicity  effects  were  observed: increase in liver  weight, increase in  ALT  and  AST and 
transient  increases  in  bilirubin.  These  signs  were  associated  with  centrilobular  hepatocytes  swelling 
and degeneration of liver cells and were generally observed at 50 and 250 mg/kg.  
Kidney toxicity was present in the 3-month study at 250 mg/kg with increases of BUN, calcium and 
inorganic phosphates. However, these effects were not accompanied by any histologic alterations. The 
NOEL in rats after oral administration is 10 mg/kg.  
In dogs, the 75 mg/kg dose caused overt toxicity (salivation, tachypnea, convulsions, ataxia, gasping) 
associated  with  death  (3/6  males  and  4/6  females).  Liver  signs  were  present  at  15  mg/kg  in  the  3-
month  study  and  at  45  mg/kg  but  not  at  15  mg/kg  in  the  one-year  study.  These  signs  were  mainly 
increased  in  liver  weight  and  ALP,  centrilobular  hepatocytes  swelling  and  endoplasmic  reticulum 
hyperplasia.  These  signs  were  not  detected  after  a  1-month  recovery.  Male  testicular  toxicity  was 
observed  at  45  mg/kg  after  one  year  in  one  study  with  decreased  testicular  weight,  atrophy  of  the 
prostatic epithelium and local deciduation of the seminiferous tubule epithelium. However, when this 
one-year study was repeated with a 3-month recovery period this effect was not observed.  
The NOEL in dogs after oral administration is 3 mg/kg.  
Ocular administration 
Toxicological  evaluation  following topical  ocular administration  of  emedastine (1-, 3-, 6-months) in 
rabbits at dosages  up to 1%  (2.8  mg/kg, 4 times  daily) did  not  result  in systemic  or ocular toxicity. 
Slit-lamp  biomicroscopic  examination  of  the  study  animals  did  not  reveal  any  treatment-related 
findings.  Conjunctival  congestion  (hyperemia)  of  minimal  severity  was  noted  in  all  treatment  and 
control groups. Corneal pachymetry data were unremarkable.  
The NOEL was 1% in these studies.  
Topical  ocular  application  of  emedastine  in  monkeys  for  6  months  at  dosages  up  to  0.1%  (4  times 
daily)  did  not  induce systemic toxicity. Corneal limbal  mononuclear  cell infiltrates  were noted in  ¼ 
males treated with 0.05% and in 4/4 males and ¼ females treated with 0.1%. Sclera mononuclear cell 
infiltrates were present in ¼ males and ¼ females treated with 0.05% and in 2/4 males and ¼ females 
treated with 0.1%.  
Measurements of emedastine in ocular tissues showed the following order of distribution: periocular 
palpebral conjunctiva > ICB > choroid >cornea > retina > aqueous humor.  
Reproduction studies  
A  complete  battery  of  assays  evaluating  the  effects  of  emedastine  on  reproductive  functions  was 
performed. Results showed slight non-significant modifications of the following fertility parameters at 
140 mg/kg: reduction of the number of implantations and the number of live fetuses, increase in the 
number of dead fetuses. The NOEL was 40 mg/kg 
Embryotoxicity and teratogenic effects.  
In rats, half the animals studied received a caesarean section on day 21, and half delivered naturally. 
Effects  on the F0 dams were limited to  decreased body  weight gain since 40  mg/kg. At 140  mg/kg, 
reduced  number  of  implantations  and  live  fetuses  and  increase  in  number  of  dead  fetuses  were 
recorded at caesarean section. At the same dosage, reduced number of survivors at day 4 post-partum 
and at weaning and in number of live births were observed at spontaneous delivery section.  
Reproductive  function  of F1 generation  was normal and F2 fetuses were  not affected by  emedastine 
treatment of F0 animals.  
The NOEL for fetal effects was 40 mg/kg, and 10 mg/kg for maternal toxicity.  
7/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In rabbits, maternal toxicity was observed at 75 mg/kg but no fetal effects were recorded.  
The NOEL was 75 mg/kg for fetal effects and 15 mg/kg for maternal toxicity. 
In summary, emedastine is not considered to be teratogenic. 
Perinatal and postnatal effects.  
Results showed decreased body weights in F0 animals at 40 mg/kg and in F1 animals at 140 mg/kg. 
NOELs were 10 mg/kg for F0 animals and 40 mg/kg for F1 animals.  
In  general,  the  results  of  reproduction  studies  showed  that  emedastine  was  embryotoxic  but  not 
teratogenic,  and  affected  reproductive  parameters  only  at  high  doses.  Effects  of  emedastine  on  F1 
animals in the peri- post-natal study in rats may be the consequence of additional exposure during the 
lactation  period  since  pharmacokinetic  studies  demonstrated  the  presence  of  emedastine  in  milk. 
Pharmacokinetic studies performed in rats have shown that emedastine can cross the placental barrier.  
Genotoxic potential 
A  complete  battery  of  mutagenicity  tests  has  been  performed  with  emedastine  difumarate.  The 
mutagenic potential of emedastine has been correctly assessed using standard tests under 
GLP conditions. Emedastine is not considered to be genotoxic. 
Oncogenic/carcinogenic potential 
An increase in hepatocellular carcinomas in mice was observed, but considered to be not statistically 
significant,  not  dose  dependent,  and  occurred  mostly  in  males.  With  respect  to  the  non-significant 
increase in hepatocellular carcinomas and the intended non-chronic use of this compound, this finding 
is not a major concern. 
Local tolerance/special toxicity studies  
Whilst the sensitising potential protocol was considered to be less than optimal to address the question 
of allergenicity, it was concluded that if the results obtained in clinical use are negative, then it is not 
necessary to perform further tests in animals.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
It was concluded that the manufacture and clinical use of Emadine will not cause toxic effects to the 
environment.  
GLP status 
It was concluded that all studies had been carried out in agreement with the requirements of GLP. 
Conclusions on the preclinical dossier 
Toxicity results found following systemic exposure showed that emedastine induced liver toxicity as a 
probable  consequence  of  its  enzyme-inducer  potential.  Safety  ratios  for  systemic  toxicity  have  only 
been  calculated  on  a  dose  basis  and  are  considered  not  fully  reliable.  However,  the  doses  used 
probably  resulted  in  systemic  exposure  of  the  animals  much  higher  than  that  obtained in  man  with 
topical use.  
Topical ocular administration resulted in the absence of any significant local or systemic toxicity. In 
monkeys a higher incidence of mononuclear cell infiltrates in the corneal limbus and sclera have been 
found in males in the high dose group. Since corneal infiltration has also been observed in patients, it 
should  be  mentioned  in  the  SPC  as  a  warning  in  section  4.4,  and  preclinical  information  in  5.3.  In 
addition it should be followed in the PSURs. 
Emedastine  was  not  teratogenic.  Reproductive  functions  were  only  affected  following  exposure  to 
emedastine at high doses, administered orally.  
Emedastine  is  neither  genotoxic  nor  carcinogenic.  However,  exposure  levels  were  not  measured  in 
treated animals. In mice a slight but not statistically significant increase in hepatocellular carcinomas 
8/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was reported. The applicant provided historical data for the strain in question in the same facilities and 
the results were judged to be unremarkable in this context. Since this was  found in only one species 
and  emedastine is  not  genotoxic, it is  considered that this is  not a  major  concern  with regard to the 
clinical use of the product. 
In  addition  it  should  be  mentioned  that  animal  results  indicate  that  emedastine  has  the  potential  to 
increase QTc intervals and to induce  arrhythmias like other  antihistamine  compounds. These  effects 
were observed in dogs but the NOEL corresponds to levels 23-fold higher than those found in clinical 
trials (7 ng/ml as compared with 0.3 ng/ml, i.e., the limit of detection for emedastine). This finding is 
mentioned in the SPC section 5.3. 
EMADINE 0.05% eye drops, solution, single-dose container (EMADINE SD) 
Pharmacodynamics 
The mode of action of emedastine and its activity as a H1 antagonist has previously been established. 
No  additional  information  has  therefore  been  submitted  or  considered  necessary  by  the  CPMP  for 
EMADINE SD. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  emedastine  has  already  been  established  and  therefore  no  additional 
data have been submitted or considered necessary by the CPMP for EMADINE SD. 
Toxicology 
No data were submitted for pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics, single and repeated dose toxicity, 
on  reproduction  toxicology,  on  mutagenicity  or  carcinogenecity  as  the  applicant  refers  to  data 
submitted in the initial marketing authorisation application for EMADINE MD. 
Presence of a degradation product: emedastine N-oxide 
During stability studies one degradation product (emedastine N-oxide) that was not present in the initial 
EMADINE MD was detected and specified at a level of 0.6 %. 
However,  this  product  is  known  as  a  minor  metabolite  in  rat  and  human,  and  a  major  one  in  dog  and 
guinea  pig.  Therefore,  the  Applicant  argued  that  the  systemic  toxicity  of  emedastine  N-oxide  has  been 
previously  evaluated  as  part  of  the  study  of  the  toxicology  of  its  parent  drug  emedastine,  which  was 
provided in the initial marketing authorisation application for EMADINE MD. 
The MAH presented two arguments: 
1. 
The first argument is that emedastine difumarate has been authorised and marketed in Japan for oral 
use. The maximum daily dose administered is 4 mg/d or 0.08 mg/kg/d. 
Since  Emedastine  N-oxide  is  formed  at  a  level  of  0.4  %,  patients  are  exposed  to  0.016  mg/d  or 
0.32 µg/kg/day. 
When topically applied by ocular route the exposure to emedastine is very low (0.095 mg/d) which 
corresponds to  0.95 µg/d  of N-oxide provided by the  metabolism route plus degradated impurity. 
Therefore, the maximum daily exposure comparatively to the oral route is approximately 16 times 
lower. 
9/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparison of exposure to emedastine N-oxide in human following oral or ophthalmic dosing 
Route in 
Human  
Oral 
Emedastine Dose 
4 mg/day  
(0.08 mg/kg/day) 
Topical 
ocular 
0.095 mg/day  
(1.9 µg/kg/day) 
Emedastine N-oxide 
Exposure  
Oral/Ophthalmic 
Safety Margin 
0.016 mg/day  
(0.32 µg/kg/day 1) 
0.95 µg/day  
(0.019 µg/kg/day 2) 
>16 
1  Calculated based on urinary excretion (0.4%) 
2  Calculated assuming emedastine N-oxide at specification limits (0.6% referred to the parent drug) and 0.4% conversion rate of 
emedastine into emedastine N-oxide 
2. 
The second argument is based on the systemic toxicity of emedastine in animals. Since N-oxide 
is a known metabolite, minor in rat (0.07 %), but major in dog (10.4 %), it can be accepted that 
adequate exposure to the metabolite has been achieved in the main toxicology studies : chronic 
administration in dog (1 year), and rat (6 months and 2 years). 
Reproduction  toxicity  studies  were  performed  in  rat  and  rabbit  by  the  oral  route.  Emedastine 
was administered in the diet. The stability of the product in the fed conditions is not known, and 
its bioavailability  was  not studied. However, the NOEL for  development  and  maternal  effects 
was 40 mg/kg/d and 10 mg/kg/d respectively. It can be judged that a sufficient safety margin for 
N-oxide by the ocular route is established. 
Considering mutagenicity studies, one reference (Wada 1990, MAH internal report) on in vitro 
metabolism of emedastine difumarate has demonstrated that in rat liver microsomal S9 fraction, 
N-oxide is formed. Thus it was assumed that in mutagenicity in vitro tests with activation, the 
metabolite N-oxide was present and assessed. 
Results of a topical ocular study performed in rabbits 
The  applicant  submitted  a  new  one  month  ocular  irritation  study  in  rabbits  to  assess  the  topical 
irritation of the emedastine and its impurity N-oxide. Three groups were included:  
- 
- 
- 
one  receiving  the  highly  degraded  EMADINE  SD  (stored  in  stressful  conditions  at  high 
temperature), containing 1,7 % of Emedastine N-oxide; 
one receiving EMADINE SD recently prepared (without emedastine N-oxide), 
the last one untreated and considered as control group. 
The treatment consisted of one drop in each eye, four times daily. No clinical signs related to adverse 
treatment  effects  were  observed.  Mean  body  weights  of  the  two  treated  animal  groups  and  of  the 
control group were comparable. 
The only ocular change was a minimal conjunctival congestion (hyperaemia) observed among animals 
treated or untreated. 
At necropsy no gross lesions were observed. Microscopic evaluation demonstrated the lack of a local 
irritant effect. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
From a toxicological viewpoint, the absence of benzalkonium chloride (a preservative well known for 
its side effects) is greatly appreciated, particularly in case of repeated dosage. 
Considering  the  level  of  this  new  impurity  (<  0.6  %)  and  the  well-known  profile  of  the  N-oxide 
metabolite (in human by both the oral and the ocular routes as well as in animal by the systemic route) 
it is improbable that the presence of emedastine N-oxide could be a safety concern. 
The applicant was requested in the List of Questions to clarify the origin of the N-oxide. The applicant 
responded  that  emedastine  N-oxide,  is  a  known  degradation  product  of  emedastine  difumerate  and 
exclusively  identified  as  impurity  in  the  preservative  free  formulation  (<0.6%),  is  considered  to  be 
10/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
possibly connected with the BFS container (low-density polyethylene blow-fill-seal dispenser) used to 
package the single units. The response was considered satisfactory. 
The  applicant  was  also  requested  by  the  CPMP  in  their  List  of  Questions  to  justify  the  lack  of 
mutagenicity  performed  on  emedastine  N-oxide.  The  Applicant  provided  satisfactory  clarifications 
regarding the genotoxic potential of emedastine N-oxide. From these data it can be concluded that the 
level  of  exposure to  emedastine N-oxide  metabolite in  mutagenicity tests  was sufficient  [conversion 
rates of emedastine into emedastine N-oxide are respectively in the rat liver microsomal S9 fraction : 
7.5% and in Human : 0.4%]. Moreover,  comparison  of preclinical toxicity studies in rats to  clinical 
usage shows a large safety margin for N-oxide exposure reaching at least 1000 up to 5000. 
Regarding  the  topical  ocular  study  the  applicant  was  asked  in  the  List  of  Questions  to  explain  the 
choice of using an untreated group control instead of a vehicle control group and to further discuss the 
findings  as  the  same  ocular  changes  are  observed  among  all  animals  (treated  and  untreated).  In  the 
response the Applicant responded that regarding the topical ocular study, its purpose was to determine 
the  ocular irritation potential  of  emedastine N-oxide  when present in the  formulation  of EMADINE 
SD.  Ocular  changes  observed  among  all  animals  (treated  and  untreated)  were  identified  in  the 
historical  data  base.  These  changes  appear  in  agreement  with  the  spontaneous  ocular  findings  in 
animal and are considered to be not treatment related. 
Moreover, the absence of vehicle control group in the topical ocular study is justified by the reference 
to  the  main  Six-Month  Topical  Ocular  Irritation  Study  in  Rabbits  carried  out  with  EMADINE  MD 
(multidose container) in which no relevant findings were observed in the group of animals treated with 
EMADINE MD vehicle.  
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
EMADINE 0.05% w/v, eye drops, solution (EMADINE MD) 
Over  500  subjects/patients  were  randomised  to  be  included  in  efficacy  studies  involving  various 
concentrations  of  emedastine,  and  over  320  of  these  (ITT)  were  exposed  to  emedastine  0.05%.  The 
safety  database  consisted  of  over  950  subjects/patients  exposed  to  various  concentrations  of 
emedastine and over 670 of these were exposed to emedastine 0.05%. 
The majority of subjects were caucasian and no particular significance was given to eye colour during 
enrolment. 
97 children aged 3 – 16 years were included in efficacy and safety studies described in the dossier. 
A  particular  feature  of  the  clinical  dossier  has  been  the  development  of  standardised  Conjunctival 
Allergen Challenge studies (CAC) as a ‘model’ of clinical efficacy, described later in this report.  
Clinical  studies  have  been  performed  according  to  current  GCP  standards  and  agreed  international 
ethical principles. 
Pharmacodynamics 
In  vivo  topical  administration  of  emedastine  produces  a  concentration-dependent  inhibition  of 
histamine-induced conjunctival vascular permeability. Studies with emedastine have not shown effects 
on adrenergic, dopaminergic, and serotonin receptors.  
CAC model studies can be considered as pharmacodynamic studies in man. 
Since they were used as dose ranging and efficacy studies, they will be discussed in the section of this 
report dealing with clinical efficacy. 
Investigations into the effect of topical emedastine on the ECG were not performed; the applicant did 
not provide PK or interaction data with respect to the potential of emedastine via the ophthalmic route 
to  prolong  the  QT  interval.  However,  due  to  the  very  low  level  of  plasma  emedastine  at  the 
recommended  dose,  and  extensive  experience  of  the  oral  product,  the  risk  is  considered  negligible 
when used according to the directions in the SPC. 
11/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
Systemic  levels  in  plasma  have  been  measured  by  a  GC/MS  technique  following  once  daily  ocular 
administration  of  various  strengths  of  emedastine  in  solution  (0.01,  0.05,  0.1  and  0.5  %).  Results 
arising from a small healthy volunteer group (n=10) were not quantifiable in most cases, i.e. below the 
limit of quantitation of the analytical method used, 0.3 ng/ml. Quantifiable results were obtained only 
after  administration  of  the  0.5%  product  where  plasma  concentrations  of  0.3  –  ca.  0.5  ng/ml  were 
recorded.  
These studies were supplemented by investigations into the pharmacokinetic properties of emedastine 
after oral administration of various doses ranging from 0.5 up to 8 mg/day. Direct comparison between 
‘ocular’ and ‘oral’ results was not possible due to the use of different analytical techniques. However 
the limited data available allows the conclusion that systemic plasma levels of emedastine following 
ocular use are indeed very small when compared to oral use, as expected. 
Clinical efficacy 
Dose – response studies and main clinical studies 
Concerning efficacy, a total of 5 studies were carried out, in two categories: 
1. 
Four CAC studies :  
- 
- 
two dose-response studies, C-93-19 & C-94-90  
two studies assessing the efficacy of emedastine with reference product and placebo: 
C-95-71 versus levocabastine 0.05% & C-96-14 versus ketorolac 0.5%. 
2. 
One clinical ‘environmental’ trial to confirm the results of the above pharmacological approach, 
C-95-54. 
The Conjuctival Allergen Challenge (CAC) 
It  is  generally  recognised  that  it  is  difficult  to  adequately  control  the  environmental  variables  in 
allergic conjunctivitis. Therefore, besides the traditional clinical development plan, the Applicant used 
a new approach: the Conjunctival Allergen Challenge (CAC) also known as Conjunctival Provocation 
Test (CPT) studies.  
The CAC  model is supposed to  work by  means  of the same immunopathological  mechanism  that is 
operative in the  disease  of allergic  conjunctivitis. In the CAC  model, asymptomatic allergic patients 
are  given  a  predetermined  topical  dose  of  allergen  to  induce  an  allergic  reaction  in  standardised 
conditions. The efficacy of a compound is tested by drug single administration before the Conjunctival 
Allergen  Challenge.  The  relevance  of  this  model  is  supported  by  the  emergence  of  the  signs  and 
symptoms characteristic of allergic conjunctivitis upon initial challenge with an offending allergen.  
On  this  particular  point  of  development,  Alcon  requested  Scientific  Advice  from  the  CPMP  before 
submission of the dossier – ‘Will the CPMP accept conjunctival allergen challenge studies as pivotal 
clinical  trials  to  prove  the  effectiveness  of  an  anti  allergy  molecule  in  allergic  conjunctivitis?  ‘The 
CPMP replied that it could accept this proposal provided that the CAC model was fully validated by 
clinical data. 
CAC methodology is of interest for the evaluation of allergic conjunctivitis because the study 
conditions are standardised and reproducible with regard to: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
creation of disease conditions,  
evaluation of well defined situation (onset and duration of action of treatment focused on 
selected efficacy parameters),  
possible selection of a homogeneous population of patients 
response to a definite dose and category of allergen.  
12/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
CAC Studies 
CAC dose-response trials, C-93-19 & C-94-90:  
Overview: 
Study 
Objectives 
C-94-90 
-efficacy of 2 
concentrations 
(0.005-0.05%) 
versus ‘placebo’ 
(emedastine vehicle) 
C-93-19 
- efficacy of 3 
concentrations (0.05-
0.1-0.5%) versus 
placebo (emedastine 
vehicle) 
Design 
Triple-masked 
randomised parallel-group 
design placebo-controlled 
with additional 
contralateral placebo  
Triple-masked 
randomised parallel- 
group design placebo-
controlled with additional 
contralateral placebo  
Treatment regimen  
(topical ocular instillation) 
One drop on two separate 
occasions ; 
- visit 3 
(10 min before CAC) 
- visit 4 
(4 hrs before CAC) 
One drop on two separate 
occasions ; 
- visit 3 
(10 min before CAC)  
and  
- visit 4 
(4 hrs before CAC) 
Treatment comparison 
- in one eye: 
emedastine 0.005%, or 
emedastine 0.05% 
- in the contralateral eye: 
vehicle 
- in one eye: 
emedastine 0.05%, or 
emedastine 0.1%, or 
emedastine 0.5%,or 
vehicle* 
- in the contralateral eye : 
vehicle 
*   The  parallel  placebo  group  design  was  included  in  study  C-93-19  since  it  was  suspected  that 
emedastine could have a carryover effect, i.e., from one eye to the contralateral eye, which might 
bias the results of the contralateral placebo (in reducing apparent differences between placebo and 
active drug). 
Number of subjects 
Study 
C-94-90 
No.of 
subjects 
randomised 
120 
C-93-19 
240 
Product 
(%) 
emedastine 0.005 
emedastine 0.05 
emedastine 0.05 
emedastine 0.1 
emedastine 0.5 
vehicle 
No. of subjects 
intent-to treat 
(ITT) 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
60 
360 
Number of discontinued subjects  
at visit 4 
0 
0 
1 lost to follow up 
1 Redness > 1 
2 lost to follow up 
1 *Redness > 1 
1 lost to follow up 
6 
Total 
* Patients with redness > 1 at visit 4 before challenge could not be assessed for duration of action 
360 
The triple masked design means that the patient is blinded, as well as the prescribing physician and the 
physician assessing the treatment effect; it may provide a less biased assessment. 
Efficacy criteria 
Concerning primary  efficacy criteria, itching and redness are representative of the most frequent and 
incapacitating symptoms of acute allergic conjunctivitis with a predominance of itching that leads the 
patient to seek treatment. Therefore, itching and redness were selected as key efficacy parameters and 
quantified on a nine point scale including half points, from 0 – 4 (redness was assessed as the sum of 
scores for regional redness in three vessel beds observed by slit lamp examination, i.e. ciliary redness+ 
conjunctival redness+ episcleral redness). 
In both studies the objectives were to evaluate the efficacy of emedastine with regard to  
- 
- 
Onset of Action when instilled 10 min before CAC, and  
Duration of Action when instilled 4 hrs before challenge.  
In both cases itching and redness scores were compared at 3 min, 10 min and 20 min. A paired t-test 
13/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was  used  to  compare  itching  and  redness  following  emedastine  and  those  following  contralateral 
placebo at each challenge and post challenge times. Differences were recorded as ‘∆ from contralateral 
placebo  (∆CP)’,  a  negative  value  being  in  favour  of  emedastine.  Statistical  methods  used  for 
comparisons were considered to be appropriate. 
For  comparisons  between  two  concentrations  of  emedastine,  the  score  data  were  analysed  using  an 
analysis of covariance model. All hypothesis tests were performed with a 0.05 probability of a Type 1 
error. In study C- 93-19 an analysis of variance was used to compare itching and redness in subjects 
dosed with placebo in both eyes. 
Results: 
C-94-90:  
- 
- 
Onset of action. The results of the study indicate that both 0.005% and 0.05% concentrations of 
emedastine  were  statistically  superior  to  placebo,  at  all  time  points.  0.05  %  concentration  of 
emedastine was statistically superior to placebo for the duration of action at all time points but 
emedastine  0.005 % was  not statistically superior to placebo on redness  at 10 and 20  minutes 
post challenge observation. 
The magnitude of the effects due to emedastine 0.05% can be seen from the mean ∆CP scores at 
3, 10 & 20 min. post-challenge, i.e.,  
Itching –1.47, -1.46 & -1.15  
Redness –1.68, -1.24 & -0.72 
Duration of action. Better results were observed for 0.05% as compared to 0.005%. Mean ∆CP 
scores for emedastine 0.05% at 3, 10 & 20 min. post-challenge were : 
Itching: -1.53, -1.55 & -1.15 
Redness: -2.06, -1.08 & -0.78 
C-93-19:  
- 
- 
Onset of action. The results  of the study indicate that two tested concentrations of emedastine 
(0.05%, 0.1%) were statistically superior to placebo at all time points. Conversely, emedastine 
0.5% was not superior on redness at 20 minutes post challenge observation, possibly related to 
the  poor  local  tolerance  of  this  high  dosing.  Relevant  mean  ∆CP  scores  for  the  0.05% 
concentration at 3, 10 & 20 min. post-challenge as compared to placebo were:  
Itching: 
Emedastine 0.05% 
Placebo 
Redness: 
Emedastine 0.05% 
Placebo 
3 min 
-1.41 
-0.16 
-1.17 
-0.08 
10 min 
-1.46 
-0.10 
-0.93 
-0.13 
20 min 
-1.08 
-0.21 
-0.94 
+0.14 
Duration  of  action.  The  three  tested  concentrations  of  emedastine  (0.05%,  0.1%,  0.5%)  were 
statistically  superior  to  placebo,  at  all  time  points.  Emedastine  0.05%  and  0.1%  are  equally 
effective in inhibiting itching and redness. Emedastine 0.1% was significantly better than 0.5% 
in inhibiting itching and redness. As above, relevant mean ∆CP scores were as follows, 4 hour 
challenge: 
Itching: 
Emedastine 0.05% 
Placebo 
Redness: 
Emedastine 0.05% 
Placebo 
3 min 
-1.29 
+0.06 
-1.03 
+0.01 
10 min 
20 min 
-1.46 
+0.08 
-1.02 
+0.25 
-0.92 
+0.06 
-0.98 
+0.36 
14/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In general the following conclusions can be drawn from these CAC model results: 
- 
- 
- 
the 0.005% concentration is not considered to be effective 
the 0.05% and 0.1 % concentrations are non-different and equally well tolerated,  
the 0.5% concentration is poorly tolerated 
Thus,  based  on  these  CAC  dose  response  studies,  the  0.05%  concentration  is  the  lowest  effective 
concentration investigated, and thus the best choice with regard to the available data.  
CAC Comparative efficacy studies 
In addition to CAC dose response studies above, the dossier also contained two studies assessing the 
efficacy of emedastine in comparison with reference products and placebo, C-95-71 and C-96-14: 
C-95-71 is a comparative study versus levocabastine 0.05%, a product of the same class, i.e. histamine 
H1  antagonist and  considered  to be the most relevant of the two  comparative studies. An  additional 
placebo control group was included in the design. The C-95-71 protocol is similar to the above CAC 
dose-response studies except for:  
- 
- 
- 
allergen challenge test conducted 2 hours (instead of 4) post dosing and results observed at 3, 5 
and 10 minutes after CAC instead of 3, 10 and 20 minutes;  
primary  efficacy  parameters,  itching  as  before  but  ‘conjunctival  redness’  measured  instead  of 
the sum of redness in three vessel beds;  
dose per instillation, 2 drops instead of 1 drop. 
C-95-71 Overview 
Study 
Objectives 
Design 
Treatment regimen 
(topical ocular instillation) 
Treatment comparison 
C- 95-71 
Efficacy and 
safety of  
emedastine 0.05%  
triple-masked 
active-controlled 
randomised 
parallel-group 
design 
Two drops on two separate 
occasions: 
1st group n=64 
- one eye: 
emedastine 0.05% 
- visit 3 
(10 min before CAC) and  
versus 
levocabastine 
0.05% 
with additional 
placebo control 
group  
- visit 4 
(2 hrs before CAC) 
- contralateral eye: 
levocabastine 0.05% 
2nd group n=33 
- one eye: 
emedastine 0.05% 
or 
levocabastine 0.05% 
- contralateral eye: 
emedastine vehicle 
15/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number of subjects 
Study 
C-95-71 
Results 
Tested product 
(%) 
emedastine 0.05 
Levocabastine 0.05 
emedastine 0.05 
Placebo 
levocabastine 0.05 
placebo 
Total 
Nb of subjects in intent-to 
treat (ITT) 
64 
Nb of evaluated subjects 
for efficacy 
60 
16 
17 
97 
16 
15 
91 
Observed  differences  in  Onset  of  Action  and  Duration  of  Action  were  generally  in  favour  of 
emedastine. Results indicate equivalence between treatments with regard to redness and itching, ie, the 
95% CI for the mean difference is included in the ± 0.8 equivalence zone. This equivalence zone was 
defined a priori but it was not  clearly justified by clinical data. It is not possible to conclude to any 
superiority of emedastine over levocabastine in alleviating itching for the following reasons:  
- 
- 
- 
demonstration of superiority was not the purpose of the study;  
there was no initial hypothesis to determine the tested difference;  
the resulting  clinical difference between treatments is modest and  does not seem to be  clinically 
relevant (i.e 0.2 unit scale for emedastine). 
C-96-14  is  a  comparative  study  versus  ketorolac  0.5%,  a  NSAID  product,  regarded  as  a  supportive 
study, as ketorolac does not belong to the same therapeutical class as emedastine. The objective was to 
demonstrate the superiority of emedastine over ketorolac 0.5%. 
36  subjects  were  enrolled  in  a  triple  masked,  active  controlled,  crossover  design  study  and  were 
randomised  to  receive  two  drops  of  emedastine  0.05%  (n=18)  or  ketorolac  0.5%  (n=18)  in  one  eye 
with placebo control in the contralateral eye.  
The  results  show  that  emedastine  0.05%  is  statistically  superior  to  placebo  and  ketorolac  0.5%  in 
inhibiting ocular itching and redness at all time points post 10 minutes challenge.  
2. 
Clinical trial (C-95-54) 
Overview 
Study Objectives 
C –95-54 
Design 
Efficacy and safety in 
treatment of allergic 
conjunctivitis 
randomised multicenter 
triple-masked parallel 
group 
Treatment regimen 
and duration (topical 
ocular instillation) 
one or two drops twice 
daily for six weeks 
Treatment 
comparison 
emedastine 0.05% 
levocabastine 0.05% 
Number of subjects 
Study 
C-95-54 
Randomised to 
treatment 
222 
* intent-to –treat 
Tested product 
(%) 
emedastine 0.05 
levocabastine 0.05 
total 
** per protocol 
ITT* 
109 
112 
221 
PP** 
97 
105 
202 
This  study  was  performed  to  confirm  CAC  studies  results  on  efficacy.  Since  the  onset  of  allergic 
seasonal conjunctivitis is typically related to the presence of specific airborne allergens such as pollens 
(notably ragweed, grass and tree pollens) spores and moulds, the treatment has been tested in different 
world areas. The choice of the comparator is acceptable, but a placebo is lacking.  
16/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary efficacy parameters were similar to the above studies, i.e.  
- 
- 
Ocular symptoms: itching 
Ocular signs: redness (slit lamp examination), both in terms of a 9 point scale  
In addition, secondary efficacy parameters related to itching and redness as appropriate were recorded 
by the physician and taken from patients’ diaries. 
The effects of the two treatments in the short term (0, 5, 10, 30 and 120 minutes), and in the long term 
(0, 14, 30 and 42 days) were compared. 
The statistical objective of the clinical study was to demonstrate equivalence between emedastine and 
levocabastine. The acceptance criterion for equivalence was that the 95% CI for the mean difference in 
primary  parameters  should  be  contained  within  a  pre-defined  equivalence  zone  of  ±0.5  unit.  Per 
protocol and Intention to treat analyses were performed. Usually the per-protocol analysis is the most 
conservative approach in an equivalence trial. 
Results 
A)  short term effects  
PP analysis 
Emedastine 0.05% 
Levocabastine 
ITT analysis 
Emedastine 0.05% 
Levocabastine 
PP analysis 
Emedastine 0.05% 
Levocabastine 
ITT analysis 
Emedastine 0.05% 
Levocabastine 
0 
5.11 
5.14 
5.07 
5.02 
0 
4.47 
4.5 
4.36 
4.39 
itching, mean scores 
5 min 
10 min 
30 min 
120 min 
3.82 
3.81 
3.74 
3.66 
3.49 
3.09 
3.42 
2.96 
2.88 
2.83 
2.85 
2.72 
2.70 
2.63 
2.63 
2.52 
redness, mean scores 
5 min 
10 min 
30 min 
120 min 
3.64 
3.73 
3.54 
3.59 
3.24 
3.28 
3.15 
3.16 
2.84 
2.95 
2.74 
2.84 
2.70 
2.74 
2.54 
2.64 
17/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B)  long term effects  
PP analysis 
Emedastine 0.05% 
Levocabastine 
ITT analysis 
Emedastine 0.05% 
Levocabastine 
PP analysis 
Emedastine 0.05% 
Levocabastine 
ITT analysis 
Emedastine 0.05% 
Levocabastine 
0 
4 
4 
3.93 
3.93 
0 
2.71 
2.64 
2.65 
2.61 
itching, mean scores 
14 d 
1.49 
2.20 
1.56 
2.21 
redness, mean scores 
14 d 
0.89 
1.35 
0.92 
1.35 
30 d 
1.13 
1.94 
1.33 
2.04 
30 d 
0.70 
1.2 
0.83 
1.24 
42 d 
0.88 
1.98 
1.13 
2.04 
42 d 
0.49 
1.12 
0.66 
1.16 
Six weeks is an acceptable duration of treatment for seasonal but not perennial allergic conjunctivitis 
which  is  a  recurrent  seasonal  disease.  As  originally  presented,  it  was  difficult  to  draw  any  firm 
conclusions  from  the  results  of  this  trial.  There  was  no  evidence  that  the  study  was  designed  as  an 
equivalence  study  in  the  dossier,  except  in  the  protocol.  There  was  no  clinical  justification  for  the 
equivalence interval chosen which is again different from that chosen with levocabastine in study  
C-95-71  (or  with  ketorolac).  The  number  of  drops  by  instillation  was  not  clearly  defined  (1  or  2  in 
protocol), and there was no justification for the twice daily dosage. 
The scales used were different, depending on whether assessment was performed by a physician or by 
the  patient  in  a  diary  and  furthermore  it  was  not  known  whether  the  nine  point  scale  used  for  the 
patient’s self evaluation is clinically validated.  
The lack of placebo arm control is the major drawback of this study.  
The company provided a re-analysis and re-presentation of the results in their responses to the list of 
questions and in the oral explanation. (See Benefit / Risk discussion in section 6 of this report). 
Clinical studies in special populations 
At risk populations (in study C-95-54) 
Treatment 
Emedastine 
Levocabastine 
Total 
Mean age ( years ) 
[ range ] 
9.1 [4 – 16] 
9.0 [5 – 14] 
Paediatric patients 
No. of paediatric 
patients 
20 
22 
44 
No. of patients 
≥65 to 76 yrs. 
2 
7 
9 
Although  only  a  limited  population  of  paediatric  patients  has  been  studied,  this  is  considered  to  be 
useful information in the  clinical trial, and is reflected in the SPC. Allergic  conjunctivitis can  affect 
children  and  the  type  of  allergic  conjunctivitis  met  in  children  is  close  to  that  of  adults.  Results 
indicate that the efficacy profile of emedastine is similar for adult and paediatric patients. 
18/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly patients 
Very few elderly patients were enrolled, insufficient to support an indication in the elderly. 
Renal & hepatic impairment 
No data were provided in relation to populations with renal or hepatic impairment. Liver metabolism 
is evident  from studies  with  oral  emedastine  and animal toxicology studies, therefore the  use  of the 
product is not recommended in these patients in the SPC. 
EMADINE 0.05% eye drops, solution, single-dose container (EMADINE SD) 
The efficacy of EMADINE 0.05% eye drops, solution in the symptomatic treatment of seasonal 
allergic conjunctivitis was established for EMADINE 0.05% eye drops, solution, multi dose and no 
new clinical data have been submitted for EMADINE 0.05% eye drops, solution, single-dose. 
The  preservative  free  formulation  of  the  EMADINE  0.05%  eye  drops,  solution,  single-dose  offers 
theoretical  advantages  for  patients  suffering  from  allergic  and  cytotoxic  reactions  to  treatment  with 
preservative  containing  formulations.  This  is  particularly  of  interest  for  inflamed  allergic  eyes  more 
sensitive  than  healthy  eyes  to  the  application  of  any  kind  of  eye  drop  and  requiring  recurrent  local 
anti-allergic treatments. Moreover, the discomfort (stinging and burning) caused by the instillation of 
eye drops may be further increased by the presence of a preservative in the formulation.  
The  removal  of  benzalkonium  chloride  from  the  formulation  is  not  expected  to  modify  the  clinical 
effectiveness  of  emedastine  difumarate, since its action is limited to the  external surface  of the  eye. 
Indeed,  emedastine  eye  drops act  only at  a topical level to block  the binding  of  histamine to the  H1 
receptors  on  conjunctival  nerve  cells  to  reduce  itching  and  on  smooth  muscle  cells  of  conjunctival 
vessels to reduce redness. 
In view of the similarity in formulation of the single-dose and multidose eye drops of emedastine, and 
since neither systemic absorption nor ocular penetration into the eye are required for effectiveness, the 
lack of additional clinical data in the single-dose file is acceptable. 
Safety 
EMADINE 0.05% w/v, eye drops, solution (EMADINE MD) 
Patient exposure 
In  all  studies  reported  in  the  dossier  over  950  subjects/patients  have  been  exposed  to  various 
concentrations of emedastine and over 670 have been exposed to emedastine 0.05% w/v.  
6-week safety 
C-94-93 (362 subjects enrolled, 242 received emedastine) 
6-week safety 
C-94-86 (67 subjects enrolled, 35 treated with emedastine) 
clinical trial 
C-95-54 (221 evaluated for safety) 
Adverse events and serious adverse events/deaths 
C-94-93 
This randomised "triple-masked" parallel group safety study was conducted in asymptomatic allergic 
patients. Emedastine  eye solution 0.05 % was  compared to placebo (=vehicle  of  emedastine)  with  a 
2:1 randomisation. The dosage regimen was 1-2 drops q.i.d. for 6 weeks. 
Office visits took place at Days 0, 7, 14, (28: telephone call), 42, and after 2-3 days off-therapy.  
Criteria of evaluation were intraocular pressure (IOP), visual acuity, pulse, systolic and diastolic blood 
pressure. 
Results: A number of 362 patients were enrolled and 31 discontinued the study prematurely.  
19/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minor deviations in protocol adherence were observed for 17 patients, and 14 were discontinued due 
to  protocol  violations  as  their  baseline  slit  lamp  examination  revealed  conjunctival  injection.  The 
average number of doses per day were 3.72 and 3.70 for the emedastine, respectively placebo group. 
Of  the  242  subjects  who  received  emedastine  17  (7  %)  experienced  25  ocular  events  related  to  the 
therapy.  Ocular  discomfort,  hyperaemia,  dryness,  corneal  staining,  pruritus  and  one  ocular  infiltrate 
were most important adverse events reported.  
Of the 120 subjects who received placebo 7 subjects (6 %) experienced 11 events of similar kind as 
with the active drug.  
The pattern of adverse events was similar for the cohort of children receiving emadine, but no adverse 
experiences  in  children  who  received  placebo  were  reported.  A  few  non-ocular  events  related  to 
emadine treatment were recorded, the most notable being dermatitis. Apart from one case of moderate 
asthenia  no  treatment  related  nonocular  events  were  recorded  in  children  receiving  emedastine  eye 
drops. 
Conclusion: No serious adverse events were reported during the study. Overall, the emadine eyedrops 
were  well  tolerated  with  a  q.i.d.  regimen  for  6  weeks,  both  in  children  of  3-16  years  and  subjects 
wearing contact lenses (which were removed prior to and reinserted 10 min after drug instillation). No 
specific or clinically relevant findings were noted in relation to the following safety parameters: 
IOP, visual acuity, dilated fundus examination, and cardiovascular data  
C-94-86 
This study was originally designed to compare the efficacy and safety of emedastine 0.05 % eye drops 
to cromolyn 2 % eye drops, both applied 4 times daily for 6 weeks in patients with moderate to severe 
allergic conjunctivitis. A randomised "triple-masked" parallel group multi-centre  design was applied. 
Because of strategic plan changes the patient recruitment was however stopped after the inclusion of 
67  patients  instead  of  the  intended  number  of  ~200.  A  safety  evaluation  only  therefore  could  be 
performed. The criteria of inclusion comprised a history of seasonal allergic conjunctivitis, confirmed 
by a positive skin test and present signs and symptoms characteristic of the disease: at least 4 on an 
itch score (0 - 4) and at least 2 on a redness score (0 - 4). Evaluation criteria included adverse events 
obtained as solicited  complaints  from study patients;  the  frequency, incidence and  causality to study 
drug also was assessed.  
Results: A number of 67 patients with a mean age of 32 years (6-69) for the emadine group patients 
and 31 years (6-70) for the cromolyn group were enrolled. The majority of the patients belonged to the 
caucasian race and half of the patients had brown eyes. 
No  serious  adverse  events  were  reported,  related  or  unrelated  to  therapy.  No  clinically  significant 
differences  in  the  safety  parameters  visual  acuity,  increase  in  intraocular  pressure,  change  in  pupil 
diameter,  no  difference  apart  from  one  whole  in  the  retina  (unrelated  to  therapy)  in  the  cromolyn 
group in  fundus examination. In the emedastine group 2 patients discontinued due to adverse events: 
one  developed  ocular  hyperaemia,  one  had  ocular  hyperaemia,  pruritus  and  discharge.  No  patients 
discontinued in the cromolyn group.  
The  reported  adverse  events  show  an  incidence  of  17  %  in  the  emedastine  group  and  13  %  in  the 
cromolyn  group. In the  emedastine  group 3 patients  experienced  discomfort,  hyperaemia  or pruritus 
while in the cromolyn group 2 patients experienced discomfort.  
Conclusion: A q.i.d. application of 0.05 % emedastine eye solution for (up to) 6 weeks in patients with 
seasonal allergic conjunctivitis is safe and generally well tolerated. The reported adverse events were 
moderate  or  mild, with  ocular discomfort and hyperaemia occurring  most  frequently. Two out of 35 
patients were withdrawn because of ocular adverse events. 
C-95-54 clinical trial 
The safety population consisted of 221 patients. Three patients in the emedastine group discontinued 
due  to  adverse  events:  one  because  of  ocular  discomfort,  one  developed  bacterial  conjunctivitis  and 
one patient  had rhinitis. The  first adverse  event  was  considered related to the trial  drug. No patients 
were withdrawn in the levocabastine group. No serious adverse events were reported during the study. 
20/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Generally, the adverse events were mild to moderate and resolved spontaneously. 
Adverse reactions in this study  were between  14 – 18%, with a predominance  of  ocular  discomfort, 
blurred vision, ocular pruritus, dry eye, tearing, ocular fatigue and corneal infiltrate, all related to the 
treatment.  In the  levocabastine  group  12.5  %  had adverse  experiences  related  to  the  treatment.  The 
majority  consisted  of  ocular  discomfort  ocular  pruritus,  blurred  vision  and  tearing.  For  both 
preparations ocular  discomfort  was the  most  frequently  reported  treatment related  ocular  event: 7  % 
for emedastine and 11 % for levocabastine. 
In approx. 10 % of the patients who received emedastine and 1 % who received levocabastine ocular 
events were observed which were not considered to be related to the treatment. 
The ocular events reported in the adult and paediatric population were similar in nature and intensity. 
No  clinically significant  changes  with  either  of the trial  medications  were recorded in the  following 
safety  parameters:  IOP,  visual  acuity,  corneal  pachymetry  (central,  temporal,  nasal,  upper,  lower 
corneal thickness), specular  microscopy (endothelial  cell density, polymorphism and polymegatism), 
pupil diameter, and fundus examination (vitreous, retina, macula, choroidea, optic nerve, disc pallor).  
Conclusion:  No  serious  adverse  events  were  reported.  The  recorded  events  were  generally  mild  to 
moderate.  In both the  emedastine  group  and the levocabastine  group the  frequency  of  ocular  events 
was  approximately  13  %.  For  both  drugs  ocular  discomfort  was  most  frequently  reported  (in  7%, 
respectively  11  %).  Three  patients  in  the  emedastine  group  discontinued  treatment  due  to  ocular 
adverse events. No clinically significant changes in the secondary safety parameters were recorded.  
Assessment of specific safety issues 
13 subjects  were  wearing  contact lenses, which  were  removed prior to administration and reinserted 
10  minutes  later.  No  subject  wearing  contact  lenses  was  discontinued  from  the  studies  due  to  an 
adverse event. The SPC advises a suitable strategy for patients wearing soft contact lenses. 
Concerning  concomitant  drug  administration,  numerous  topical  and  systemic  medications  were  also 
used during the studies. No adverse event was reported which could be attributed to concomitant use 
of other medications. 
It  is  known  that  benzalkonium  chloride  can  cause  punctate  keratopathy  and  /or  toxic  ulcerative 
keratopathy and whilst this was not specifically evaluated in the safety assessment, it was concluded 
this should be reflected in the SPC. 
Oral emedastine has been shown to prolong the QT interval; however, no cases of torsades de pointe 
were reported with oral emedastine in Japan over 5 years. It is noted that the studies on emedastine by 
the oral route were performed during 1985 – 1990 at a time when the cardiac effects of antihistamines 
were  not  fully  described, and there are  no specific investigations  of arrhythmias in this dossier. The 
applicant  did  not  provide  PK  or  interaction  data  with  respect  to  the  potential  of  emedastine  via  the 
ophthalmic route to prolong the QT interval. However due to the very low plasma level of emedastine 
obtained via the ophthalmic route, and extensive experience of the oral product, the risk is considered 
negligible  in  this  case.  However,  a  statement  is  included  in  the  SPC  section  5.3  relating  to  the 
prolongation of QT interval in dogs, and in the overdose section 4.9. 
EMADINE 0.05% eye drops, solution, single-dose container (EMADINE SD) 
The  safety  of  EMADINE  0.05%  eye  drops,  solution  in  the  symptomatic  treatment  of  seasonal  allergic 
conjunctivitis  was  established  for  EMADINE  0.05%  eye  drops,  solution,  multidose  and  no  new  safety 
data have been submitted for EMADINE 0.05% eye drops, solution, single-dose. 
The  new  presentation  free  of  benzalkonium  chloride,  is  expected  to  be  without  the  well-known 
cytotoxicity of that preservative, even if theoretical and not demonstrated in the application.  
In the clinical trials for EMADINE MD over 950 subjects/patients received various concentrations of 
emedastine and over 670 of these were exposed to emedastine 0.05%. 
Reported adverse events were mild to moderate and usually resolved without treatment. The most frequent 
ocular  events  associated  with  EMADINE  MD  included  ocular  discomfort,  ocular  pruritus,  ocular 
hyperaemia, ocular dryness, blurred vision and corneal staining. No serious adverse events were reported in 
21/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  studies;  no  subject aged  3-16  years  of  age  was  discontinued  due  to  an  adverse  event;  and  no  deaths 
were recorded in the studies. Corneal infiltration  was  observed in two patients and is kept under specific 
review in the PSURs. 
The safety assessment for EMADINE SD is based on the PSURs for EMADINE MD. The multi-dose 
presentation  was launched in the EU in 1999 and thus, four PSURs (covering the period 01 January 
1999 to 21st December 2000) have been analysed by the CPMP.  
During  the  reported  period,  the  total  number  of  units  of  EMADINE  MD  sold  worldwide  was  1. 
043.298. No change in the SPC has been requested based on the assessments of the PSURs. 
The safety profile of EMADINE MD demonstrated in clinical studies is confirmed by post marketing 
experience. Only non serious adverse events were reported to the MAH. Review of spontaneous post-
marketing reports during the 2  year period confirms that the adverse events possibly associated with 
the  use  of  EMADINE  MD  occur  infrequently,  are  generally  non-serious  and  resolve  without  any 
sequelae. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
EMADINE 0.05% w/v, eye drops, solution (EMADINE MD) 
Quality 
The  company  has  developed  a  product  of  satisfactory  quality  in  relation  to  the  clinical  use,  i.e.  a 
buffered, sterile, isotonic solution which is preserved against microbial contamination  during storage 
and use. The manufacturing process has been validated and provides a satisfactory assurance that the 
product  will  be  sterile  when  opened  for  the  first  time.  Methods  used  for  batch  control  and  stability 
studies have been validated and should ensure a product of reproducible quality.  
Efficacy 
In  the  conjunctival  allergen  challenge  studies  a  statistically  superior  efficacy  to  placebo  was 
demonstrated  with  emedastine  0.05  %  solution  in  controlling  redness  and  itching  in  subjects  with  a 
history  of  allergic  conjunctivitis.  Emedastine  was  equivalent  to  levocabastine  0.05  %  in  preventing 
and relieving itching and in reducing redness. The onset of action was rapid, i. e. less than 10 minutes. 
The minimally-effective concentration was found to be 0.05 %.  
For conclusions relating to the clinical trial, see Benefit / Risk Assessment. 
Safety 
Adverse  events  reported  were  mild  to  moderate  and  usually  resolved  without  treatment.  The  most 
frequent ocular events associated with emedastine eye drops 0.05% included ocular discomfort, ocular 
pruritus,  ocular  hyperaemia,  ocular  dryness,  blurred  vision  and  corneal  staining.  No  serious  adverse 
events  were  reported  in  the  studies;  no  subject  aged  3-16  years  of  age  was  discontinued  due  to  an 
adverse event; no deaths were recorded in the studies. 
Overall,  no  clinically  relevant  changes  in  intraocular  pressure,  pupil  diameter,  visual  acuity,  fundus 
parameters  or  ocular  signs  were  demonstrated.  In  general,  the  overall  incidence  of  ocular  adverse 
events was 14-18% in two trials in symptomatic patients. 
As  mononuclear  cell  infiltration  has  been  observed  in  monkeys  in  the  pigmented  ocular  tissue  and 
corneal  infiltration  was  reported  in  two  patients  (although  this  is  known  to  occur  independently  of 
treatment in patients  with allergic  conjunctivitis), it was  concluded that this should be  mentioned in 
the  SPC  as  a  warning  in  section  4.4,  and  preclinical  information  in  5.3.  The  company  has  been 
requested to keep this under review and it should be specifically followed in the PSURs. 
22/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefit/risk assessment 
In order for the CPMP to come to a decision regarding satisfactory proof of efficacy, the company was 
asked to give an oral presentation which addressed the following two residual issues:-  
i) 
The CAC studies which compared the product to placebo were not validated, e.g., they did not 
reflect the proposed clinical use of the product. 
ii) 
The clinical trial did not include a placebo arm and thus lacked internal validation. 
The CPMP took into account that it is  not  always possible to show  a  difference  with placebo 
with products of this type, and thus internal validation is deemed necessary. 
Therefore, the applicant was asked to present information which justifies that the efficacy of the 
product is indeed superior to placebo. 
Following the company’s oral explanation the issues were discussed: 
i) 
The  CPMP  considered  that  the  CAC  studies  may  be  considered  as  supportive  evidence  of 
efficacy, and noted the generally positive results in favour of emedastine.  
ii)  As  the  clinical  trial  did  not  include  a  placebo  arm,  the  appropriateness  of  the  comparator 
product becomes crucial. It should be kept in mind that levocabastine is authorised and used in 
the  EU  and  is  considered  to  show  acceptable  evidence  of  clinical  efficacy.  The  results  of  the 
trial showed a statistically significant difference of emedastine over levocabastine. In addition, 
and as the trial was designed as an equivalence trial, it would be inappropriate to conclude that 
emedastine  is  clinically  superior  to  levocabastine.  However,  the  results  led  the  CPMP  to 
conclude that there is enough proof that emedastine is not inferior to levocabastine which can be 
considered to be a suitable comparator.  
This, together with the rest of the evidence presented, 
- 
- 
preclinical  data  showing  superior  histamine  H1  receptor  affinity  /  potency  of  emedastine  in 
comparison with levocabastine  
supporting  evidence  from  the  CAC  studies  which  add  to  the  evidence  of  efficacy  from  the 
clinical  trial  prompted  the  CPMP  to  conclude  that  the  efficacy  of  emedastine  has  been 
acceptably shown. 
The company originally applied for an indication relating to the prevention  of allergic conjunctivitis, 
however  this  was  rejected.  In  addition,  the  company’s  request  for  an  indication  relating  to  the 
treatment of conjunctivitis, was modified. Therefore, on the basis of all information presented to date, 
it  is  reasonable  that  the  indication  should  relate  to  short-term  symptomatic  treatment  of  seasonal 
allergic  conjunctivitis,  rather  than  prevention.  There  is  satisfactory  evidence  that  the  minimally-
effective concentration to balance efficacy and safety aspects in this indication is 0.05% w/v. 
The  CPMP  on  the  basis  of  the  quality,  efficacy  and  safety  data  available,  recommended  that  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  should  be  granted  for  this  product,  when  used  according  to  the  conditions 
defined in the SPC. 
EMADINE 0.05% eye drops, solution, single-dose container (EMADINE SD) 
Quality 
The important quality  characteristics  of EMADINE single-dose are  well-defined  and  controlled,  and 
the product is formulated, manufactured and controlled in a way that is characteristic of a solution for 
ophthalmic  use.  The  specifications  and  batch  analytical  results  indicate  a  consistent  product  with 
uniform clinical performance from batch to batch. There are no outstanding quality issues, which have 
a negative impact on the benefit/risk balance. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The lack of additional preclinical and toxicology studies is acceptable in view of the similarity in 
formulation of the single-dose and multidose presentations of emedastine, and the presence of 
emedastine N-oxide raises no safety concern considering the level of this impurity (< 0.6 %) and the 
23/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
well-known profile of the N-oxide metabolite (in human by both the oral and the ocular routes as well 
as in animal by the systemic route).  
Efficacy 
The removal of benzalkonium chloride from the formulation is not expected to modify the clinical 
effectiveness of emedastine difumarate, since its action is limited to the external surface of the eye. In 
view of the similarity in formulation of the single-dose and multidose presentations of emedastine, and 
since neither systemic absorption nor ocular penetration into the eye are required for effectiveness, the 
lack of additional clinical data in the single-dose file is acceptable. 
Safety 
The  new  presentation  free  of  benzalkonium  chloride,  is  expected  to  be  without  the  well-known 
cytotoxicity of that preservative, even if theoretical and not demonstrated in the application. 
The safety of EMADINE SD is acceptable because of the similarity in formulation of the single and 
multidose presentations and because the adverse events possibly associated with the use of EMADINE 
MD occur infrequently, are generally non-serious and resolve without any sequelae. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The overall benefit/risk assessment is considered to be positive considering that 
•  The removal of benzalkonium chloride from the formulation is not expected to modify the clinical 
effectiveness  of  emedastine  difumarate  in  the  treatment  of  seasonal  allergic  conjunctivitis  as 
demonstrated for EMADINE MD 
•  The  new presentation,  free of benzalkonium  chloride, is  expected to be  without the  well-known 
cytotoxicity of that preservative 
•  The presence of emedastine N-oxide raises no safety concern considering the level of this impurity 
(< 0.6 %) and the well-known profile of the N-oxide metabolite (in human by both the oral and the 
ocular routes as well as in animals by the systemic route) 
•  The safety of EMADINE SD is acceptable because of the similarity in formulation of the single 
and  multidose  presentations  and  because  the  adverse  events  possibly  associated  with  the  use  of 
EMADINE MD occur infrequently, are generally non-serious and resolve without any sequelae. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CPMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CPMP  considered  that  the 
benefit/risk  profile  of  EMADINE  0.05%  eye  drops,  single-dose  container  in  the  symptomatic 
treatment of seasonal allergic conjunctivitis was favourable and therefore recommended the granting 
of the marketing authorisation. 
24/24 

EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
