EMA/193648/2014 
EMEA/H/C/000223 
EPAR summary for the public 
Emadine 
emedastine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Emadine. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Emadine. 
What is Emadine? 
Emadine is a clear eye drop solution. It contains the active substance emedastine (0.5 mg/ml). 
Emadine is available in a bottle and in single-dose containers. 
What is Emadine used for? 
Emadine is used to treat the symptoms of seasonal allergic conjunctivitis (inflammation of the eyes 
caused by pollen in patients with hayfever). These symptoms include itching, redness and swelling. 
Emadine is used in adults and children aged three years and older. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Emadine used? 
Emadine is given as one drop in the affected eye(s) twice a day. Its effects have not been studied 
beyond six weeks. If more than one type of eye treatment is being used, each one should be given at 
least 10 minutes apart and any eye ointments should be given last. 
Emadine is not recommended for patients older than 65 years or in patients who have problems with 
their liver or kidneys. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Emadine work? 
The active substance in Emadine, emedastine, is an antihistamine. It works by blocking the receptors 
that histamine normally attaches to. Histamine is a substance in the body that causes allergic 
symptoms. When the receptors are blocked, histamine cannot have its effect, which leads to a 
decrease in the symptoms of allergy. 
How has Emadine been studied? 
Emadine has been compared with levocabastine (another antihistamine) in one main study involving 
222 patients with seasonal conjunctivitis aged four years and over. The main measure of effectiveness 
was the reduction in itching and redness, measured on a nine-point scale over up to six weeks. 
The company also presented the results of studies in which patients received Emadine, levocabastine 
or placebo (a dummy treatment) before being subjected to an ‘allergen challenge’. This is a test where 
patients with an allergy who are not currently showing any allergic symptoms receive a defined dose of 
an allergen (the substance that they are allergic to) to trigger an allergic reaction. 
What benefit has Emadine shown during the studies? 
Emadine was as effective as levocabastine in reducing symptoms of seasonal conjunctivitis. In both 
groups of patients, itching scores fell from around 5.1 at the start of the study, to around 3.8 after five 
minutes and around 2.7 after two hours. Similar reductions in redness scores were seen, falling from 
4.5 to 3.7 after five minutes and 2.7 after two hours. In the long term, the itching scores fell from an 
average of around 3.9 on the first day, falling to 0.8 for Emadine and 2.0 for levocabastine after six 
weeks. For redness, the scores fell from around 2.7 to 0.5 for Emadine and to 1.1 for levocabastine. 
Similar results were seen in adults and in children. 
The results of the allergen challenge tests supported these results. 
What is the risk associated with Emadine? 
The most common side effects with Emadine (which may affect between 1 and 2 patients in 100) are  
eye pain, eye pruritus (itchy eye) and conjunctival hyperaemia (increased blood flow to the eye, 
leading to redness).  
The bottle form of Emadine contains benzalkonium chloride, which is known to discolour soft contact 
lenses. Therefore, care should be taken by people who wear soft contact lenses. For the full list of all 
side effects and restrictions with Emadine, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Emadine been approved? 
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Emadine’s benefits are 
greater than its risks for the symptomatic treatment of seasonal allergic conjunctivitis. The Committee 
recommended that Emadine be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Emadine 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Emadine  on 27 January 1999. 
The full EPAR for Emadine can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
Emadine  
EMA/302879/2014 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
treatment with Emadine, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 04-2014. 
Emadine  
EMA/302879/2014 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
