EMA/313469/2020  
EMEA/H/C/000527 
Emend (aprepitant) 
An overview of Emend and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Emend and what is it used for? 
Emend is an antiemetic, a medicine that prevents nausea (feeling sick) and vomiting. 
Emend is used in patients aged from 6 months to prevent nausea and vomiting caused by 
chemotherapy (medicines used to treat cancer). It is used with chemotherapy that is a moderate or 
strong trigger of nausea and vomiting.  
Emend contains the active substance aprepitant. 
How is Emend used? 
Emend is available as capsules and as a powder to be made up into an oral suspension (a liquid to be 
drunk). The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
Emend capsules are used in adults and children from 12 years of age; children between 6 months and 
12 years of age are given the oral suspension. Only a healthcare professional should prepare the oral 
suspension. 
The usual dose of Emend in adults and children from 12 years of age is 125 mg by mouth one hour 
before the start of chemotherapy and 80 mg each day for the next two days. It is given with other 
medicines that also prevent nausea and vomiting such as dexamethasone and ondansetron. 
In children between 6 months and 12 years of age, Emend oral suspension is given and the dose 
depends on the patient’s weight. Emend oral suspension is given one hour before the start of 
chemotherapy, and once a day for the next 2 days. 
How does Emend work? 
Aprepitant, the active substance in Emend, is a neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor antagonist. It prevents a 
chemical in the body (substance P) from attaching to the NK1 receptors. When substance P attaches to 
these receptors, it causes nausea and vomiting. By blocking the receptors, Emend can prevent nausea 
and vomiting caused by chemotherapy. 
What benefits of Emend have been shown in studies? 
Three main studies have been carried out with Emend capsules involving around 2,000 adults receiving 
chemotherapy. They compared the effectiveness of Emend, taken in combination with dexamethasone 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and ondansetron, with that of the standard combination of dexamethasone and ondansetron alone. 
The main measure of effectiveness was the number of patients who had no nausea and vomiting in the 
five days after receiving chemotherapy. 
The studies showed that adding Emend to the standard combination was more effective than the 
standard combination alone. In two studies involving patients receiving chemotherapy including 
cisplatin, 68% of the patients taking Emend had no nausea or vomiting over 5 days (352 out of 520), 
compared with 48% of the patients who did not take it (250 out of 523). Emend was also found 
effective during a further five cycles of chemotherapy. In the third study in patients who received 
chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, 51% of the patients taking Emend had no nausea or vomiting 
(220 out of 433), compared with 43% of the patients who did not take it (180 out of 424). 
A fourth study was carried out in 307 children from 6 months to 17 years of age, where Emend taken 
with ondansetron (with or without dexamethasone) was compared with ondansetron alone (with or 
without dexamethasone). The main measure of effectiveness was ‘complete response’, defined as no 
vomiting, retching or dry heaves and no need for any other medication to control nausea and vomiting 
25 to 120 hours after the start of chemotherapy. The study also looked at how many patients achieved 
a complete response in the first 24 hours after chemotherapy. 
In this study, around 51% (77 out of 152) of children given Emend with ondansetron had a complete 
response 25 to 120 hours after beginning chemotherapy, compared with 26% (39 out of 150) of 
children given ondansetron alone. Emend was also effective in the first 24 hours after chemotherapy. 
What are the risks associated with Emend? 
The most common side effects with Emend in adults (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are 
increased liver enzymes (a sign of liver problems), headache, hiccups, constipation, dyspepsia 
(indigestion), loss of appetite and fatigue (tiredness). In children, the most common side effects are 
hiccups and flushing.  
Emend must not be used with the following medicines: pimozide (used to treat mental illness), 
terfenadine and astemizole (commonly used to treat allergy symptoms) and cisapride (used to relieve 
certain stomach problems).  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Emend, see the package leaflet.   
Why is Emend authorised in the EU? 
Emend was effective at preventing nausea and vomiting following chemotherapy when added to other 
standard treatments. Its main side effects were manageable. The European Medicines Agency 
therefore decided that Emend’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Emend? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Emend have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Emend are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Emend are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Emend (aprepitant)  
EMA/313469/2020  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Emend 
Emend received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 11 November 2003.  
Further information on Emend can be found on the Agency’s website:  
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/emend. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2020. 
Emend (aprepitant)  
EMA/313469/2020  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
