SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Emend. For information 
on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) remains a significant side-effect experienced by 
patients especially when these patients are treated with highly emetogenic regimens. One of the most 
emetogenic  antineoplastic  product  is  cisplatin  when  administered  at  doses  superior  to  50 mg/m2. 
Without  anti-emetic treatment  essentially all patients experience CINV (for cisplatin emesis that has 
been  documented  to  occur  in  more  than  99%  of  patients).  The  chemotherapy  associated  emetic 
symptoms are categorised according to the temporal relation between the administration to emetogenic 
treatement and the emetic symptom phases, these symptoms are classified as acute or delayed CNIV. 
The acute phase of emesis is conventionally considered to last for 24 hours. In the particular case of 
cisplatin there is a peak in the risk of nausea and vomiting that occurs approximately 4 hours after the 
administration of the product followed by a period when virtually no emesis occur until about 16 to 18 
hours  after  the  administration  of  cisplatin.  Despite  the  appropriate  use  of  effective  regimens  for  the 
prevention of CINV, about 25% of patients experience acute nausea and vomiting when treated with 
chemotherapeutic agents and about 50% experience delayed CINV.  
The  substances  used  to  treat  chemotherapy-induced  nausea  and  vomiting  include  5-HT3  receptor 
antagonists also known as setrons, steroids and dopamine D2 antagonists. The combination of 5-HT3 
receptor antagonists with corticosteroids is recommended for the treatment of acute phase of high-risk 
CINV. There is substantial evidence to support their efficacy in this indication.   
For the treatment of delayed emesis, clinical data show that dexamethasone given at 8 mg twice daily 
is  effective.  The  role  of  5-HT3  antagonists  for  the  control  of  the  delayed  CINV  is  much  more 
controversial  although  they  are  recommended  for  use  in  recent  therapeutic  guidelines.  The  level  of 
evidence in favour of activity of metoclopramide against delayed emesis is also considered weak  
The active substance of EMEND is aprepitant (also know as MK-0869 or L-754030). Aprepitant is an 
antagonist of neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor. The dominating natural ligand of this receptor is Substance 
P  (SP),  a  neuropeptide  from  the  family  of  tachykinins.  Substance  P  is  abundantly  and  widely 
distributed  in  the  mammalian  central  nervous  system  and  other  tissues.  Substance  P  itself  is  able  to 
induce  emesis.  NK1  receptors  are  located  the  brain  stem  nuclei  of  the  dorsal  vagal  complex,  these 
regions of the brain are involved in the regulation of emesis.   
The indication applied for EMEND by the Applicant is “prevention of acute and delayed nausea and 
vomiting  associated  with  initial  and  repeated  courses  of  highly  emetogenic  cancer  chemotherapy, 
including high-dose cisplatin, in combination with other antiemetic agents”. The proposed regimen of 
aprepitant is 125 mg orally 1 hour prior to chemotherapy treatment (Day 1) and 80 mg once daily in 
the morning on Days 2 and 3. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
EMEND is presented in the form of gelatine hard capsules filled with inert microcrystalline cellulose 
beads  coated  with  80  or  125  mg  of  aprepitant  as  active  substance.  Other  ingredients  are  sucrose, 
hydroxypropyl cellulose, microcrystalline cellulose, sodium lauryl sulfate, gelatine, shellac, black iron 
oxide and titanium dioxide. The 125 mg capsule also contains red iron oxide and yellow iron oxide. 
The capsules are packed in Aluminium blisters. 
1/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active substance 
Aprepitant is a white to off-white crystalline solid, and is practically insoluble in water. Aprepitant has 
the chemical name 5-[[(2R,3S)-2-[(1R)-1-[3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]ethoxy]-3-(4-fluorophenyl)-
4morpholinyl]methyl]-1,2-dihydro-3H-1,2,4-triazol-3-one. 
Two crystalline forms exist but only one form (Form I), which is the most thermodynamically stable 
polymorph,  is  produced  and  used  in  the  drug  product.  Satisfactory  conformance  has  been  provided 
that there is not any conversion to undesirable form (Form II). 
Aprepitant is chiral, containing 3 asymmetric centres; and a defined pure stereoisomer is used in the 
finished product. Conversion to undesired stereoisomer is unlikely based on the molecular structure. 
Chiral  purity  is  checked  for  one  key  intermediate  during  synthesis  (chiral  HPLC)  and  for  the  active 
substance  (specific optical rotation). 
Aprepitant is synthesized in two main steps: (1) the formation of the “secondary amine” (sec-amine) 
and (2) the synthesis of aprepitant drug substance from the sec-amine. The sec-amine is considered the 
starting material for the aprepitant synthesis as the material mainly contributes to the structure of the 
final drug substance. In the sec-amine, the absolute stereochemical configuration is already established 
and thereafter retained in the subsequent steps. Finally, aprepitant is purified from the crude substance 
by re-crystallization. 
Modifications were made on the synthetic route during development concerning the synthesis of the 
secondary  amine.  Two  major  routes,  which  differ  in  the  synthesis  to  form  the  sec-amine  were  used 
(Process 1 and Process 2). Further, a batch size modification has also been performed to the Process 2 
in order to achieve the proposed synthetic route (Process 2B). 
Sufficient data have been provided to show that there are not significant differences arising from these 
modifications. 
Batch  analysis  data  is  provided  on  5  batches  produced  with  the  proposed  synthetic  route  and  the 
current  production  batch  scale.  The  batch  analysis  data  confirm  that  the  active  substance  can  be 
manufactured reproducibly. 
Adequate In-Process Controls are applied during the manufacture of aprepitant active substance. The 
specifications  and  control  methods  for  intermediate  products,  starting  materials  and  reagents,  have 
been presented. 
Active substance specifications 
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  identity  (IR  spectroscopy,  HPLC, 
specific  rotation),  assay  (HPLC,  weight  %,  98.5  –  101.5%),  impurities  (HPLC,  Area  %),  residual 
solvents (GC), water content (KF), heavy metals (ICP-MS), and residue ignition (Ph Eur). 
The specifications reflect all relevant quality attributes of the active substance. However, the applicant 
committed  to  review the limits for  assay when more manufacturing experience is being gained. The 
analytical methods used in the routine controls are suitability described. The validation studies are in 
accordance  with  the  ICH  Guidelines.  Impurity  limits  in  the  specification  are  justified  by  toxicology 
studies. 
Stability 
Stability  studies  under  long  term  ICH  conditions  (25°C/60%RH  and  40°C/75%)  up  to  9  months  in 
three  production-scale  batches (plus additional  data from pilot scale batches). Methods are validated 
and  stability  indicating.  The  parameters  tested  are  characteristics,  assay  and  impurities.  Aprepitant 
drug substance appears to be very stable; there is no significant degradation at any of the conditions 
studied for the duration of the stability studies. Therefore, the data provided are sufficient to confirm 
the proposed re-test period. 
2/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other ingredients 
All excipients but the gelatine capsule shells and the printing ink are controlled for compliance to the 
corresponding monographs in the European Pharmacopoeia. 
Certificates  of  analysis  of  the  gelatine  capsules  demonstrating  compliance  to  a  satisfactory 
specification were provided. The suppliers of bovine gelatine are in the possession of Certificates of 
Suitability to Monographs of the European Pharmacopoeia.  
The  colorants  used  in  the  capsules,  as  well  as  the  colorant  used  in  the  ink  comply  with  Directive 
95/45/EC. 
The coating on the aluminum lidding that is in direct contact with the product meets the heavy metal 
requirements of the Packaging and Packaging Waste Directive (Commission Directive 94/62/EC).  In 
addition,  it  complies  with  the  requirements  of  the  Monomers  Directive  (Commission  Directive 
2002/72/EEC), and the Framework Directive (Council Directive 89/109/EEC). 
Product development and finished product 
Due to the low aqueous solubility of the active substance, the product development has been focused 
on decreasing the active substance particle size to nanoscale in order to enhance the bioavailability of 
the  substance.  The  product  manufacture  includes  a  wet-milling  method  to  reduce  the  aprepitant 
particle size. The formulation includes excipients aiding in the reduction of the drug substance particle 
size,  “forcing”  the  obtained  nanoparticles  to  remain  separated  during  and  after  coating  of  the 
microcrystalline  cellulose  beads,  preventing  agglomeration  of  beads  and  also  allowing  the  drug 
substance  particles  to  re-disperse  from  the  beads  in  vivo  with  maintained  small  size.  The  product 
development and manufacture (including in-process controls and process validation) are satisfactorily 
accounted for. Excipients are well-known for medicinal products and satisfactorily controlled. 
The  manufacture  comprises  (1)  production  of  a  slurry  of  water,  hydroxypropyl  cellulose  and 
aprepitant,  (2)  pre-milling  (3)  addition  of  an  aqueous  sodium  lauryl  sulphate  dispersion,  (4)  media-
milling to form a colloidal dispersion (5) addition of an aqueous sucrose dispersion, (6) spray-coating 
of  microcrystalline  cellulose  beads  with  the  colloidal  dispersion  (7)  sieving  of  the  coated  beads,  (8) 
blending of coated beads with micronised sodium lauryl sulphate and finally (9) encapsulation of the 
blended beads. 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  by  a  number  of  studies  for  the  major  steps  of  the 
manufacturing process in thirteen production-scale batches (five batches of 80mg capsules and eight 
batches  of  125mg  capsules).  The  manufacturing  process  has  adequately  been  validated  and  is 
satisfactory. The in process controls are adequate for this hard capsule preparation.  
The  batch  analysis  data  show  that  the  hard  capsules  can  be manufactured  reproducibly according  to 
the agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of this oral preparation. 
Product Specification 
The product specifications include tests by validated methods for appearance, identity (HPLC, NIR), 
assay  (HPLC,  95.0-105.0%  of  the  label),  degradation  products  (HPLC),  microbial  purity  (Ph.  Eur.), 
dissolution, and content uniformity. 
Degradation products are controlled and their limits are justified by reference to stability studies and 
toxicology studies. 
The tests and limits of the specifications for the finished product are appropriate to control the quality 
of the finished product for their intended purpose. 
Batch  analysis  data  on  three  production-scale  batches  of  each  capsule  strength  confirm  satisfactory 
uniformity of the product at release. 
Stability of the Product 
3/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The shelf-life specifications for the finished products are appearance, assay (HPLC, 95.0% - 105.0% 
of label claim, the same as at release), degradates (HPLC), dissolution, etc. 
Although,  the  following  release  parameters  are  not  included  in  the  shelf-life  specifications:  content 
uniformity, identity, and microbial limits, the finished product will meet these specifications, if tested. 
Stability  data  for  three  full-scale  production  batches  of  each  strength  has  been  provides  through  6 
months at 25ºC/60% RH, 30ºC/65% RH, and 40ºC/75% RH packed in aluminium blisters. In addition 
data from pilot scale batches have been provided and based on available stability data, the proposed 
shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SPC are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The manufacturing process is demonstrated to give batch-to-batch reproducibility and compliance of 
finished product with specification. 
The analytical methods have been validated and are suitable to ensure consistent quality of the active 
substance and the finished product. 
The synthetic pathway is presented and the structure and impurity profile of the active substance are 
characterized  and  in  line  with  current  ICH  guidelines.  The  stability  data  on  the  active  substance 
supports the re-test period proposed by the applicant. 
Due to the reduced particle size of aprepitant active substance the formulation shows reasonably good 
bioavailability despite the low solubility of the active substance.  
At the time of the CPMP opinion, there were two minor unresolved quality issues without impact on 
the  clinical  efficacy  or  safety  of  the  product,  therefore  the  applicant  made  a  commitment  to  resolve 
these as post-opinion follow-up measures. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
In vitro studies. 
The affinity of aprepitant to the NK1 receptor was evaluated on receptors from the species used in the 
non-clinical  pharmacodynamic  studies  (ferret)  and  also  in  the  majority  of  the  species  used  in  the 
toxicology studies. The structure of NK1 receptors is highly conserved between species. The affinity 
of aprepitant for these receptors was shown to be similar between species with the exception of the rat 
where the affinity was shown to be lower but still, this affinity was high (Ki in the nanomolar range of 
concentrations).  
It was also shown that aprepitant is a selective NK1 receptor antagonist that penetrates into the central 
nervous  system.  With  respect  to  central  NK1  receptor  occupancy,  a  PET  study  (positron  emission 
tomography) performed in monkey showed that more than 80 % of the brain receptors were occupied 
when the plasma levels were superior or equal to 120 ng/ml. A relationship between plasma levels of 
aprepitant and the degree of central occupancy was demonstrated.  
Aprepitant was more than 1000 times more selective for the NK1 receptor than for the NK2 and NK3 
receptors  and  did  not  show  any  affinity  for  the  serotonin  5HT3  and  dopamine  D2  receptors  (other 
systems of neurotransmitters involved in the control of emesis). It was shown that aprepitant had good 
functional selectivity with respect to the smooth muscle NK1 receptor and the central NK1 receptor 
antagonist activity was confirmed in functional studies in vivo. 
4/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
In vivo studies. 
As  far  as  the  primary  pharmacology  of  aprepitant  is  concerned,  in  vitro  data  showed  that  aprepitant 
slowly dissociates from the human NK1 receptor (t½ for receptor occupancy was equal to 154 min) 
and  it  was  suggested  that  aprepitant,  as  a  competitive  antagonist,  may  also  behave  as  a  pseudo-
irreversible antagonist. The inhibition of foot tapping in gerbils further indicated that aprepitant has a 
long central duration of action. Still, there are no in vivo data that actually studied the kinetics of the 
receptor-dissociation and the duration of the anti-emetic effect of aprepitant.  
Aprepitant  had  a  significant  effect  against  acute  and  delayed  cisplatin-induced  emesis  in  ferrets  and 
the effect of the combination with dexamethasone or 5HT3 receptor antagonists was additive.  
Aprepitant  is  extensively  metabolised  especially  in  rodents.  Some  of  its  non-polar  metabolites  cross 
the  blood  brain  barrier.  All  metabolites,  including  the  primary  metabolite  L-755446,  had  decreased 
affinity  for  the  human  NK1  receptor  compared  with  the  parent  compound.  In  ferrets,  the  emesis 
model,  it  has  been  shown  that  the  main  anti-emetic  effect  was  closely  related  to  aprepitant,  not 
metabolites,  since  the  main  compound  in  the  ferret  brain  was  the  parent  molecule  48  hours  after 
dosing. However, assuming that the properties of aprepitant and metabolites in human are similar to 
the  properties  observed  in  preclinical  species,  an  additional  pharmacological  effect  of  L-755446 
cannot  be  totally  excluded.  Still,  in  ferrets,  the  main  anti-emetic  effect  was  without  doubt  related  to 
aprepitant, since the main compound in the ferret brain was still, after 48 hours, the parent molecule. 
Tumour growth in athymic mice was not affected by aprepitant alone or in combination with cisplatin. 
The combination did not alter mortality rate and body weight as compared to the individual agents. 
• 
General and safety pharmacology programme. 
Aprepitant  did  not  induce  significant effects on cardiovascular, behavioural, central nervous system, 
respiratory,  renal  and  gastric  systems.  Importantly,  NK1  antagonism  with  aprepitant  did  not  induce 
any relevant effects on gastro-intestinal motility. The minor cardiovascular effects that were observed 
in the safety pharmacology studies were similar to those described with the vehicle. In two repeated 
dose toxicity studies ECG measurements did not demonstrate any effects on the cardiovascular system 
in particular on the QT interval at exposures up to 80-fold over clinical exposure.  
Pharmacokinetics 
• 
Absorption and bioavailability. 
Aprepitant is quite slowly absorbed. This absorption is saturable. It is widely distributed into tissues 
including  the  brain  and  extensively  metabolised  in  all  species  studied.  Bioavailability  of  aprepitant 
was 40-50 % in male rodents and 16 % in the dog; the half-life was approximately 3 and 6 hours in the 
respective species. The half-life in female rats was estimated to 8-14 hours. Clearance was slow and 
saturable in the dog and moderate in the male rat. Disposition kinetics and distribution of aprepitant 
were  only  evaluated  in  male  rats.  Data  on  the  distribution  of  aprepitant  to  the  female  reproductive 
organs are lacking.  
• 
Distribution. 
More than 97-98 % of aprepitant is bound to proteins in all species tested. The protein binding of the 
non-polar/major  metabolites  has  not  been  determined,  but  it  is  not  likely  that  the  metabolites  will 
contribute  to  any  significant  pharmacological  activity  of  aprepitant.  Aprepitant,  L-755446  and  other 
metabolites are chiral molecules. It was shown with both chiral and non-chiral analytical methods that 
interconversion  of  aprepitant  in  vivo  is  unlikely.  It  can  therefore  be  assumed  that  no  additional 
pharmacological effect is to be expected due to interconversion of aprepitant or its metabolites.  
Studies in mice suggested that aprepitant is a Pgp-substrate, while its primary metabolites are not since 
the  brain  concentrations  of  the  major  metabolite  (L-755446)  were  independent  of  the  presence  or 
absence of Pgp in the animals. Neither ondansetron nor dexamethasone, which are Pgp substrates as 
well, had any significant effects on the brain levels of aprepitant.  
5/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Significant amounts of aprepitant pass the rat and rabbit placenta and rat milk contained 90 % of the 
parent plasma levels.  
• 
Metabolism. 
The metabolism of aprepitant is extensive. The metabolism of aprepitant was similar (on a qualitative 
viewpoint) across the different animal species. The major metabolites identified in human plasma were 
also  present  in  rat,  mouse  or  dog  plasma.  Aprepitant  undergoes  N-dealkylation  and  O-dealkylation 
resulting in the removal of the triazolone and bis-trifluoromethylphenyl-ether chains respectively (see 
molecular structure of aprepitant in part II of the report). Non-polar, polar, very polar metabolites and 
glucuronide conjugates of aprepitant were identified. The glucuronide conjugates are mainly excreted 
and non-clinical data does not indicate any significant recirculation of aprepitant. In vitro metabolism 
data were consistent with the in vivo data, confirming the proposed metabolic pathways for aprepitant. 
There  is  a  substantially  higher  rate  of  metabolism  in  male  compared  to  female  rats.  The  rate  of 
metabolism further increased after repeated dosing (as studied in male animals only), probably due to 
an  auto-induction  of  aprepitant  metabolism  via  CYP3A.  In  dogs,  there  were  no  apparent  gender 
differences,  but  data  indicates  a  lower  rate  of  metabolism  in  dogs  than  in  rodents.  There  was  no 
obvious accumulation, since a plateau in exposure was reached in the long-term toxicokinetic studies. 
In vitro studies suggested that mainly CYP3A4 and possibly isoenzymes 1A2 and 2C19 were involved 
in the metabolism of aprepitant in man. In addition, these studies showed that aprepitant is a substrate, 
a moderate inhibitor, and an inducer of CYP3A4 and a very weak inhibitor of CYP2C9 and CYP2C19 
and the main interactions are likely to occur with products that are metabolised through CYP3A4.  
• 
Excretion. 
Excretion  was  studied  in  male  animals  only.  In  rat  and  dog,  aprepitant  is  eliminated  mainly  by 
excretion of metabolites via biliary and urinary excretion. Excretion is essentially independent of the 
route of administration. Only a small fraction of the dose is excreted as unchanged parent compound 
in  bile  and  no  intact  drug  was  detected  in  urine  of  either  species.  A  similar  part  of  the  dose  is 
eliminated via urine following both IV and oral administration, suggesting that absorption is complete. 
However,  absorption  is  approximately  40  %  based  on  excretion  in  urine  and  bile  following  oral 
administration. These inconsistent results were probably due to the different formulations used in the 
two studies resulting in different degrees of absorption. In addition, time of bile-sampling was limited 
in the excretion study. 
Toxicology 
• 
Single dose toxicity. 
Single dose toxicity studies in female mice and rats by the oral and intraperitoneal route indicated a 
low potential for acute toxic effects.  
• 
Repeated dose toxicity (sub-acute and chronic toxicity). 
After  repeated  dosing  to  rats,  the  target  organs  were  thyroid  (at  exposures  similar  to,  or  lower than 
clinical  exposures)  and  liver  (at  doses  higher  than  2.5  times  the  clinical  dose).  These  changes  are 
considered  to  be  due  to  induction  of  microsomal  enzymes  in  the  liver  and  a  subsequent  increased 
thyroxine clearance with compensatory TSH elevation as confirmed in supplementary studies. Serum 
cholesterol  was  slightly  increased  in  both  sexes  and  serum  triglycerides  were  slightly  decreased  in 
males. Effects on the morphology of erythrocytes were seen at the end of the chronic toxicity study.  
The  salient  toxicity  findings  in  the  mouse  studies  were  hepatocellular  hypertrophy,  increase  of 
cholesterol and triglycerides, kidney hydropic tubular degeneration, and decrease of potassium. 
In the dog, target organs were the reproductive organs (prostate, testis and ovaries) and thymus in the 
presence of decreased body weight gain. The thymic atrophy found in only one study was attributed to 
be secondary to stress. However this explanation seems improbable since the effect was dose-related; 
the effect might be related to a real immunomodulatory effect of aprepitant. However, this finding was 
only  observed  at  high  exposure  levels  (125 mg/kg  twice  daily  i.e.  more  than  40-times  the  clinical 
6/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
exposure) and is currently not considered of any clinical significance. In contrast to the degenerative 
changes in the other target organs, gross ovarian changes found in one study were not accompanied by 
microscopic  changes.  With  respect  to  reproductive  organ  toxicity  in  the  males  (two  studies)  these 
findings were only observed at high exposure levels as well.  
Even  though  the  toxicological  profile  was  very  different  in  the  species  used  in  these  toxicological 
studies, an increase in plasma cholesterol was observed in both rats and dogs. This was likely related 
to  the  significant  hepatotoxicity  in  the  rat,  but  not  in  the  dog.  The  possible  mechanism  behind  the 
increase in the latter species was not clear. Pronounced hepatic toxicity was also observed in mice (≥ 
25 mg/kg, in the carcinogenicity study) and in rabbits (≥ 5 mg/kg, in the reproductive toxicity studies).  
In  none  of  the  substantial  number  of  studies  conducted  with  aprepitant,  recovery  was  assessed.  The 
Applicant  could  not  provide  possible  mechanisms  for  the  increased  cholesterol  levels  and  testicular 
degeneration seen at high exposure levels in dogs, and the morphological changes of erythrocytes in 
rats. Considering the fact that EMEND is indicated for short-term use, these findings are probably not 
relevant for human use in the proposed indicationToxicokinetics. 
In  rats,  no  sufficient  exposure  to  the  substance  was  obtained.  The  doses  administered  resulted  in  a 
similar or lower exposure compared with the clinically expected exposure and there was evidence of a 
saturated  absorption.  Attempts  were  made  to  increase  the  exposure  in  this  species,  and  for  this 
indication, the low exposure in the rat is accepted. A sufficient margin of exposure was reached in the 
dog studies, already at the lowest dose tested (13-fold). 
• 
Mutagenic potential. 
Aprepitant was found non-genotoxic in appropriate studies.  
• 
Carcinogenic potential. 
The  carcinogenicity  studies  submitted  are  not  considered  as  being  mandatory  for  the  claimed 
indication due to the short duration of treatment. Kinetic evaluations from accessory studies suggest a 
low exposure to aprepitant also in these studies. Non-neoplastic and neoplastic changes (rat only) were 
observed  in  liver  (mouse  and  rat)  and  thyroid  (rat).  The  non-neoplastic  effects  on  the  liver  in  the 
mouse study were considered by the Applicant to be due to an increase in CYP enzymes, which is a 
well documented, rodent-specific effect of limited clinical significance. However, in the mouse, CYP-
specific enzyme induction was not measured, but EFCOD (indicator of CYP1A and 2B) suggested an 
enzyme induction also in this species. 
In the rat carcinogenicity study, the same non-neoplastic effects on liver and thyroid were observed as 
in  the  toxicity  studies.  Also  in  this  species,  both  non-neoplastic  and  neoplastic  changes  were 
considered secondary to microsomal enzyme induction and subsequent alterations in thyroid hormone 
balance.  In  this species, induction  of CYP3A  and to some extent CYP2B  was seen in both  genders. 
Published  data  have  shown  a  correlation  between  the  induction  of  CYP2B  and  CYP3A  with 
hepatocellular  hypertrophy  and  hepatic  tumours  in  rodents.  It  is  therefore  accepted  that  the  liver 
tumours were due to the accelerated hepatic metabolism with CYP3A and 2B induction in the liver.  
The  thyroid  follicular  cell  adenomas  and  carcinomas  in  the  rat  were  considered  as  related  to  the 
increased  thyroxine  clearance  and  compensatory  TSH  elevation.  The  effect  on  the  hypothalamic-
pituitary-thyroid axis was confirmed in a mechanistic rat study. It is concluded that there is no clinical 
significance  of  this  finding  due  to  the  large  species  differences  between  rats  and  humans  in  the 
inherent  susceptibility  to  neoplasia  secondary  to  hormone  imbalance.  Furthermore,  severe  thyroid 
dysfunction  in  a  patient  would  most  probably  be  observed  before  there  is  an  increased  risk  for 
neoplasia in humans. In conclusion, the neoplastic findings in the carcinogenicity studies are likely not 
of any clinical significance. 
• 
Embryo/foetal and perinatal toxicity. 
In rat fertility studies systemic exposure was low, especially in male rats. Pharmacokinetic data also 
indicates a faster clearance with a shorter half-life in male rats compared to humans, and even with a 
twice-daily administration, sufficient exposure may not be obtained during the 24-hour period.  
7/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Aprepitant does not  seem  to have any  dramatic adverse effects  on embryo-foetal, pre- and postnatal 
development.  No  developmental  treatment-related  effects  were  observed  at  doses  up  to  2000 
mg/kg/day in two studies conducted in rats. This contradicts the findings in the dose-ranging studies, 
where  1)  pronounced  maternal  toxicity,  2)  decreased  numbers  of  implants  (5  -  250  mg/kg),  and  3) 
decreased postnatal pup survival and pup body weights (250 mg/kg) were observed. In the rabbit dose-
range finding study at 25 mg/kg a slight pre- and post-implantation loss was observed, but also in this 
species in the final study, no effects were observed at this dose level. The findings in both studies were 
however  limited,  not  seen  in  the  pivotal  studies  and  within  the  range  of  historical  control  data. 
Therefore, it is accepted that the increases in postnatal mortality in rats and post-implantation losses in 
rabbits  were  probably  not  related  to  the  treatment.  On  the  other  hand,  systemic  exposure  in  both 
species  was  only  similar  to  that  of  human  exposure.  In  female  rats,  the  half-life  of  aprepitant  was 
similar to the half-life in humans, but the affinity for the NK1 receptor was 50 times lower compared 
to humans. The rabbit is reported to have high CYP3A levels. This may result in a rapid metabolism 
and a short half-life of aprepitant in this species. Consequently, there is no information on whether the 
rabbits  are  exposed  during  the  full 24-hour period.  This  may be central during  the  critical period of 
organogenesis even though the rabbits were dosed twice daily. In addition, the affinity for the NK1-
receptor in rabbits is not known As a result, data does not allow an adequate evaluation of the potential 
risks for the foetus during pregnancyPossible effect on immune system. 
Substance P is a major modulator of the (neuro)immune system and regulates its action via the NK1 
receptor, a receptor that is widely distributed. It is not known what consequences antagonism of the 
NK1  receptors  may  have  on  immune  function.  Being  an  antagonist  of  NK1  receptors,  aprepitant  is 
likely  to  retain  immuno-pharmacological  activity  considering  that  NK1  receptors  are  present  on 
various immune cells. No specific studies on the immunotoxic potential of aprepitant were performed. 
The fact that this issue was not addressed may be partly justified (in the present indication) since no 
increased  susceptibility  to  infections  was  noted  in  the  non-clinical  studies.  However,  except  for 
infection (studied in specific pathogen free animals which minimises the risk for infection),no overall 
cellular immune activity was considered as endpoint and a reduced immune activity in treated patients 
can not be excluded 
A  strong  argument  in  favour  of  the  relative  low  importance  of  immuno-pharmacological  adverse 
effects of aprepitant is the short-term treatment schedule and the lack of neutropenia following 5 days 
treatment.  
In conclusion, aprepitant has indeed the potential to affect immune activity, but such an activity has 
not become apparent and it is not clear whether blockade of NK1 receptors is beneficial or adverse in 
infection. No further studies are required. However, the immuno-pharmacological effects of long-term 
treatment  with  aprepitant  are  not  known,  and  further  research  on  immunotoxicity  is  needed  if  such 
treatment is indicated.  
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Overall,  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  that  aprepitant  is  a 
selective NK1 receptor antagonist that penetrates to the central nervous system. Aprepitant showed the 
desired  mode  of  action  in  cisplatin-induced  emesis  in  ferrets.  The  Applicant  has  however  further 
committed  to  study  the  duration  of  action  of  aprepitant  in  vivo.  The  general  pharmacology  studies 
showed no significant effects on major organ systems.  
Overall, the toxicology programme revealed a relatively low toxicity of aprepitant. However, it should 
be  noted  that  systemic  exposure  in  rodents  was  similar  or  even  lower  than  therapeutic  exposure  in 
humans. Adverse effects of possible relevance to humans included effects on reproductive organs and 
thymus in dogs. These findings were however only seen at high exposure multiples and is currently 
not  considered  of  any  clinical  significance.  Reproduction  toxicity  studies  did  not  allow  an  adequate 
evaluation  of  the  potential  risks  for  the  foetus  during  pregnancy  and  no  specific  studies  on  the 
immunotoxic potential of aprepitant have been performed. For the present, short-term indication, these 
shortcomings are accepted. 
8/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This information is reflected in the summary of product characteristics. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
Human Pharmacodynamic studies 
Using a specific NK1 receptor binding ligand, which is able to cross the blood brain barrier, it is possible to 
assess the displacement of the ligand by aprepitant. The relationship between plasma concentration and 
NK1  receptor  occupancy  in  the  central  nervous  system  was  evaluated  in  PET  studies  (positron 
emission  tomography).  The  aprepitant  concentration  that  results  in  50%  receptor  occupancy  was 
estimated  to  be  11.3 ng/ml.  Plasma  concentrations  of  approximately  100 ng/mL  are  predicted  to 
produce brain NK1-receptor occupancy of approximately 90%. The maximum plasma concentration at 
the indicated doses is about 1500 ng/ml and trough levels were approximately 600 ng/ml on the third 
day  of  treatment.  Provided  that  there  is  no  lag  phase, e.g., due to  the  blood/brain  barrier, these data 
suggest very high receptor occupancy during the entire treatment period. No in vivo studies exploring 
the receptor dissociation in the central nervous system or the periphery have been submitted and the 
durability of dynamic effects put in relation to pharmacokinetics remains to be elucidated. 
The  possible  contribution  of  peripheral  NK1  receptor  blockade  to  the  prevention  of  delayed  emesis 
was not fully explored in the drug development programme. 
Pharmacokinetics 
• 
General. 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  aprepitant  was  extensively  studied  in  a  large  number  of  clinical 
pharmacology studies in healthy volunteers.  
Absorption. The absorption of aprepitant is relatively slow. Following oral administration of EMEND, 
maximum aprepitant plasma levels are obtained at approximately 4 hours. The absolute bioavailability 
of the 80 mg and 125 mg capsule under fasting conditions is 67% (95% CI 62-73%) and 59% (95% CI 
53-65%), respectively. The effect of food on the pharmacokinetics of aprepitant after administration of 
the hard capsule is dose-dependent. In the therapeutic dose range a standard breakfast resulted in an up 
to 40% increase in AUC, which is not considered clinically relevant.  
Following oral administration of a single 125-mg dose of EMEND on Day 1 and 80 mg once daily on 
Days 2 and 3, the AUC0-24hr (mean±SD) was 19.6±2.5 µg⋅hr/ml and 21.1±6.3 µg⋅hr/ml on Day 1 and 
Day  3,  respectively  and  the  Cmax  was  of  1.6±0.36  µg/ml  and  1.4±0.22  µg/ml.  The  interindividual 
variability is low (CV% for AUC about 30% and for Cmax about 23%) in relation to the large safety 
margins. 
The  formulation  intended  for  marketing  (nanoparticle  capsule  formulation)  was  used  in  phase  IIb, 
phase III and late clinical pharmacology studies. Early studies with aprepitant were carried out with 3 
tablet formulations, which had a relatively low bioavailability and a significant food effect. All tablet 
formulations  had  oral  bioavailabilities  inferior  to  the  nanoparticle  capsule  formulation  giving 
markedly lower exposure in a fasting state, but a smaller difference in the fed state. 
Distribution.  Aprepitant  has  a  high  protein  binding,  97-98%.  The  mean  apparent  volume  of 
distribution is approximately 66 Liters.  
Elimination. Aprepitant is eliminated by metabolism. In the therapeutic dose range, clearance is 60-72 
ml/min and the terminal half-life about 9-13 hours.  
Metabolism. Aprepitant has a large number of metabolites. Seven metabolites have been identified in 
human  plasma  following  oral  administration  of  14C-aprepitant  and  12  metabolites  following  IV 
administration of the water-soluble  14C-L-758298 prodrug. CYP3A4 is the main CYP450 isoenzyme 
involved  in  the  metabolism  of  aprepitant.  CYP2C19  and  CYP1A2  may  also  be  involved  to  some 
extent. Some of these metabolites eventually undergo glucuronidation. The metabolite profile in urine 
9/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  faeces  has  been  adequately  evaluated.  Aprepitant  constitutes  about  19%  of  the  radioactivity  in 
plasma  over  72  h  and  is  the  largest  component  in  plasma  during  the  first  48  h.  A  large  number  of 
metabolites  were  detected  in  plasma,  but  the  relative  contribution  of  the  metabolites  to  total 
radioactivity in plasma has not been determined, nor is the protein binding of the metabolites known. 
Radioactivity  not  accounted  for  in  plasma  seems  to  consist  of  a  number  of  metabolites  at  low 
concentration. All of the metabolites have lower or no NK1 receptor affinity compared with aprepitant 
and  none  of  the  metabolites  are  likely  to  contribute  significantly  to  the  activity.  Thus,  the  lack  of 
detailed  information  regarding  metabolites  in  plasma  is  considered  acceptable.  Aprepitant  is  an 
enantiomer, but does not undergo any interconversion in vivo.  
Excretion. Following IV administration of a  14C-labelled prodrug of aprepitant (L-758298), which is 
converted  rapidly  and  completely  to  aprepitant,  approximately  57%  of  the  total  radioactivity  is 
excreted in the urine and 45% in faeces. No unchanged substance is excreted in urine.  
Dose-linearity.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  aprepitant  is  not  linear.  Aprepitant  displays  dose-  and  time 
dependent  pharmacokinetics.  Clearance  decreases  with  increased  dose,  likely  due  to  saturable 
metabolism. Absolute bioavailability decreases as the dose increases. The decrease in clearance with 
dose  is  larger  than  the  decrease  in  bioavailability  resulting  in  a  more  than  proportional  increase  in 
AUC  with  increased  dose.  Upon  long-term  administration,  aprepitant  induces  its  own  metabolism 
resulting in decreased exposure over time beyond Day 7. Using the proposed EMEND administration 
schedule of 125 mg on day 1 and 80 mg/day on days 2 and 3, relatively stable aprepitant plasma levels 
are obtained from day 1 to 3.  
• 
Pharmacokinetics in the patient population. 
Limited  data  suggest  that  the  pharmacokinetics  is  similar  in  patients  and  in  healthy  volunteers. 
However, a final study report of one pharmacokinetic study conducted in patients should be submitted 
as a follow-up measure.  
• 
Special populations.  
No pharmacokinetic data were obtained in children. Age, gender, weight and race have no clinically 
relevant  influence  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  aprepitant.  There  is  no  clinically  relevant  change  in 
pharmacokinetics  in  severe  renal  impairment  or  end  stage  renal  disease.  Aprepitant  is  not  extracted 
during haemodialysis. Patients with mild hepatic impairment have similar pharmacokinetics as healthy 
volunteers,  while  the  exposure  is  slightly  increased  in  moderate  hepatic  impairment  (Child-Pugh 
scores 7-8); AUC was increased by 18% on Day 3. However, the subjects included do not seem to be 
representative for patients with impaired hepatic cellular function. Conclusions regarding the effect of 
moderate hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of aprepitant cannot be drawn from these data. 
Severe hepatic impairment has not been studied. The lack of data in moderate and hepatic impairment 
is acceptable for the present indication with 3-day administration.  
• 
Interaction studies. 
The  interaction  profile  of  aprepitant  is  complex.  Aprepitant  is  a  substrate  and  inhibitor  of  CYP3A4 
and an inducer of CYP3A4, CYP2C9 and potentially other isoenzymes.  
Aprepitant  is  metabolised  by  CYP3A4:  effects  of  other  substances  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
aprepitant.  
Since aprepitant is metabolised through CYP3A4 the association of aprepitant with substance known 
to inhibit or conversely known to induce this isoenzyme will induce changes to the plasma levels of 
aprepitant.  A  5  times  increase  in  AUC  was  observed  during  concomitant  administration  of 
ketoconazole (a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor) and a reduction of the AUC with 91% during concomitant 
administration of rifampicin (a strong inducer of multiple P450 cytochromes including CYP3A4). The 
effect of the moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor diltiazem on aprepitant pharmacokinetics has been studied, 
but  the  results  (2-fold  increase  in  aprepitant  exposure)  cannot  be  extrapolated  to  the  currently 
proposed posology for EMEND as this interaction was evaluated using an early tablet formulation. 
10/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therefore,  coadministration  of  EMEND  with  medicinal  products  that  inhibit  CYP3A4  activity  will 
result in increased plasma concentrations of aprepitant. Consequently, concomitant administration of 
EMEND with CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, ketoconazole, clarithromycin, telithromycin) should 
be approached cautiously. 
Concomitant  use  with  substances  known  to  strongly induce  CYP3A4  such  as  rifampicin  is  likely  to 
result in considerable loss of efficacy of aprepitant and should be avoided. Effects of other CYP3A4 
inducers are also expected and concomitant administration should be approached cautiously. 
Aprepitant  is  an  inhibitor  of  CYP3A4:  effects  of  aprepitant  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  other 
substances. 
interaction  studies  between  aprepitant  and  CYP3A4  substrates, 
Aprepitant  is  an  inhibitor  of  CYP3A4,  but  does  not  seem  to  inhibit  CYP2C9  or  P-gp.  Therefore,  a 
series  of 
i.e.  midazolam, 
dexamethasone,  methylprednisolone  and  granisetron  were  conducted.  Aprepitant  caused  a  2-3-fold 
increase in AUC of concomitantly orally administered CYP3A4 substrates with the proposed dosage 
regimen.  Based  on  these  studies,  dose-adjustments  are  proposed  for  methylprednisolone  and 
dexamethasone,  when  administered  in  combination  with  EMEND.  EMEND  should  not  be  used 
concurrently with pimozide, terfenadine, astemizole, or cisapride. Inhibition of CYP3A4 by aprepitant 
could  result  in  elevated  plasma  concentrations  of  these  drugs,  potentially  causing  serious  or 
life-threatening reactions. 
Additional data provided show that the effect on CYP3A4 substrates administered intravenously was 
considerably  lower,  as  demonstrated  by  a  34%  increases  in  AUC  of  concomitantly  administered  IV 
methylprednisolone. Data on midazolam administered intravenously on Day 4, the first day after end 
of aprepitant treatment (25% increase in AUC) suggest that a somewhat larger effect of aprepitant on a 
sensitive  CYP3A4  substrate  than  that  observed  on  methylprednisolone  could  be  expected. 
Chemotherapeutic agents are generally administered intravenously. Hence, the interaction potential is 
much  less  than  if  they  had  been  administered  orally.  A  clinically  significant  effect  on  irinotecan 
cannot be excluded.  
Aprepitant  is  also  an  inducer  of  CYP2C9  and  CYP3A4;  effects  of  induction  on  pharmacokinetics  of 
other substances. 
Aprepitant  induces  one  or  several  enzymes  over  long-term  administration.  In  the  3-day  CINV 
treatment regimen, aprepitant is a modest inducer of CYP2C9 with a likely maximum induction in the 
range 30-35% at approximately 7-10 days after start of treatment and duration of slightly more than 
two weeks. The effect on hepatic CYP3A4 is lower with a maximum decrease in AUC of about 20% 
and duration of less than two weeks. Aprepitant does not seem to induce P-gp. The effect of induction 
on pharmacokinetics of orally administered  CYP3A4 substrates (including a number of possibly co-
administered non-chemotherapeutics) is not known, but it is expected to be significantly greater than 
the  effect  on  products  administered  intravenously.  In  addition,  the  effect  of  the  combination  of 
aprepitant and dexamethasone on the pharmacokinetics of drugs metabolised by CYP3A4 has not been 
studied.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  conduct  a  study  characterising  the  effect  of  aprepitant  in 
combination  with  dexamethasone  on  hepatic  and  intestinal  CYP3A4  using  an  orally  administered 
sensitive  CYP3A4  substrate.  The  study  should  characterise  the  maximum  extent  of  induction  and 
duration  of  induction  and  should  be  conducted  using  the  proposed  Emend  posology  for  three  days 
together with the proposed dexamethasone posology for 4 days.  
The efficacy of oral contraceptives during administration of aprepitant may be reduced. Alternative or 
back-up methods of contraception should be used for 2 months following the last dose of EMEND. 
As far as the potential inductive effects on chemotherapeutic agents are concerned CYP2C9 does not 
seem  to  be  involved  in  the  metabolism  of  chemotherapeutic  agents  to  any  significant  extent,  but 
CYP3A4  is  involved  at  least  partly  in  the  metabolism  of  several  agents  (etoposide,  vinorelbine, 
docetaxel,  and  paclitaxel).  No  relevant  inductive  effects  are  expected  on  chemotherapeutic  agents 
administered intravenously 3-4 weeks apart or for agents with a 3-4 day regimens given from day 1 of 
11/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
aprepitant treatment. Small effects could be expected on agents administered intravenously at weekly 
intervals. Considering the small inductive effect on hepatic CYP3A4 (approximately 20% decrease in 
AUC),  the  effect  of  aprepitant  alone  on  IV  chemotherapeutic  agents  is  unlikely  to  be  of  clinical 
relevance.  It  appears  advisable,  however,  to  study  the  effects  of  aprepitant  combined  with 
dexamethasone on the pharmacokinetics of vinorelbine administered once weekly. 
Finally,  concerning  potential  clinically  relevant  interactions  involving  other  isoenzymes  of  CYP450 
aprepitant was shown in vitro to be a very weak inhibitor of CYP2C19. Aprepitant was a very weak 
inhibitor  of  CYP2D6,  CYP1A2,  and  CYP2E1  with  IC50  values  superior  to  100  µM  for  reactions 
catalysed by these isozymes. 
All  the  results  from  the  interaction  studies  together  with  the  interaction  profile  of  aprepitant  are 
summarised in the tables thereafter. 
12/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Summary of interaction studies performed with aprepitant  
Product 
N  Dose 
aprepitant   
Dose 
concomitant 
product 
Effect of aprepitant   
on product given 
concomitantly 
Effect of concomitant 
product on 
aprepitant 
AUC ↑ 4.8-fold 
Cmax  ↑ 1.5-fold 
AUC ↑ 2-fold 
Cmax  ↑ 2-fold 
AUC ↓ 91% 
Cmax  ↓ 62% 
CYP3A4 inhibitors 
Ketoconazole 
11  125 mg single  400 mg 
- 
Diltiazem 
6 
300 mg q.d. 5 
days (tablet 
form B) 
CYP3A4 inducer 
(2x200mg) b.i.d. 
10 days 
120 mg t.i.d. 13 
days 
AUC ↑ 1.7-fold 
Cmax↑ 1.5-fold 
Rifampicin 
11  375 mg single  600 mg 
- 
CYP3A4 substrate 
Midazolam 
16  125/ 80 mg 5d
(2x300mg) bid 
14 days 
2 mg p.o. single 
dose 
Midazolam 
12  125/ 80 mg 3d  2 mg i.v.  
single dose  
day 0, 4, 8, 15 
CYP2C9 substrate 
Warfarin 
22  125 / 80 mg 3d  Titrated to stable 
INR 
Tolbutamide 
12  125/ 80 mg 3d  500 mg p.o.  
single dose  
day 0, 4, 8, 15 
- 
- 
- 
AUC ↑ 3.3-fold 
Cmax  ↑ 1.9-fold 
Day 4: AUC ↑ 25% 
Day 8: AUC ↓ 19% 
Day 15: AUC ↓ 4%  
34% decrease in S-
warfarin after treatment 
(day 8) 
14% decrease in INR 
Day 4: AUC ↓ 23% 
Day 8: AUC ↓ 28% 
Day 15: AUC ↓ 15% 
18  100 mg 4 d, 
200 mg 10 d 
(form C) 
20 mg 14 d 
Day 14: AUC ↓ 26% 
Day 14: AUC ↓ 27% 
20  125/80 mg 5d 
20 / 8 mg 5d 
AUC ↑ 2.2-fold 
Cmax  ↑ 1.5-fold 
Day 1: 30% ↑ AUC 
Day 5: No change 
CYP2D6 substrate 
Paroxetine 
Antiemetics 
Dexamethasone 
(CYP3A4 substrate) 
Methylprednisolone 
(CYP3A4 substrate) 
Ondansetron 
10  125/80 mg 3 d  125 iv/40 po 3d  Day 1: AUC ↑ 34% 
Day 3: AUC ↑ 150% 
AUC ↑ 15% 
15  375 / 250 mg 
32 mg iv 
Granisetron 
18  125/80 mg 3 d  2 mg po 
AUC ↑ 10%  
5d 
P-gp 
Digoxine 
Other 
11  125/80 mg 5 d  0.25 mg q.d. 13 
AUC ↓ 7%  
d 
Oral contraceptives 
6 
100 mg q.d. 
14d 
35µg EE  
1 mg NET 
Day 14: EE AUC ↓ 
43% 
NET AUC ↓ 8% 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
13/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table summarising the interaction profile of Aprepitant. 
Product 
Consequence of the interaction 
Aprepitant is metabolised by CYP3A4: effects of other agents on the pharmacokinetics of aprepitant. 
CYP3A4 
inhibitors 
clarithromycin, telithromycin). 
(e.g. 
ritonavir,  ketoconazole 
Concomitant administration of EMEND with CYP3A4 
inhibitors results in increased plasma concentrations of 
aprepitant,  the  association  should  be  approached 
cautiously. 
Rifampicin (or other CYP3A4 inducers e.g. phenytoin, 
carbamazepine, phenobarbital, St John’s Wort). 
in 
results 
reduced 
association 
plasma 
The 
concentrations  of  aprepitant 
in 
decreased  efficacy  of  EMEND.  Combination  with 
should  be  avoided. 
strong  CYP3A4 
Combination  with  St 
not 
recommended. 
that  may  result 
John’s  Wort 
inducers 
is 
Aprepitant is an inhibitor of CYP3A4: effects of aprepitant on the pharmacokinetics of other agents. 
Pimozide, terfenadine, astemizole, or cisapride 
Ergot alkaloid derivates 
CYP3A4 substrates 
Dexamethasone 
Methylprednisolone 
EMEND  should  not  be  used  concurrently  with  these 
substances. Inhibition of CYP3A4 by aprepitant could 
result  in  elevated  plasma  concentrations  of  these 
drugs,  potentially  causing  serious  or  life-threatening 
reactions. 
Coadministration  of  EMEND  with  ergot  alkaloid 
derivatives, which are CYP3A4 substrates, may result 
in  elevated  plasma  concentrations  of  these  medicinal 
products.  Therefore,  caution  is  advised  due  to  the 
potential risk of ergot-related toxicity. 
As  a  moderate  inhibitor  of  CYP3A4,  aprepitant  can 
increase  plasma  concentrations  of  coadministered 
medicinal  products 
that  are  metabolised  through 
CYP3A4.  Caution  is  advised  during  concomitant 
administration with CYP3A4 substrates. 
The  usual  oral  dexamethasone  doses  should  be 
reduced by approximately 50%. 
usual 
administration 
intravenous 
The 
methylprednisolone  dose  should  be  reduced  by 
approximately 
oral 
methylprednisolone  dose  should  be  reduced  by 
approximately 50%. 
usual 
25%, 
and 
the 
Aprepitant  is  also  an  inducer  of  CYP2C9  and  CYP  3A4;  effects  of  induction  on  pharmacokinetics  of  other 
agents. 
CYP3A4 substrates 
As  an  inducer  of  CYP3A4,  aprepitant  can  decrease 
plasma  concentrations  of  intravenously  administered 
CYP3A4  substrates  within  2  weeks 
following 
initiation  of  dosing  with  EMEND.  This  effect  may 
become  apparent  only  after  the  end  of  treatment  with 
EMEND.  The  inductive  effect  of  aprepitant  on  orally 
administered CYP3A4 substrates has not been studied, 
but  is  expected  to  be  larger.  Caution  is  advised  when 
oral  medicinal  products  metabolised  by  CYP3A4  are 
14/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
CYP2C9 substrates 
Warfarin 
Oral contraceptives 
administered during this time period. 
Aprepitant  has  been  shown  to  induce  CYP2C9. 
Coadministration of EMEND with medicinal products 
that are known to be metabolised by CYP2C9, such as 
warfarin,  tolbutamide,  phenytoin,  may  result  in  lower 
plasma  concentrations  of  these  medicinal  products; 
therefore caution is advised. 
In  patients  on  chronic  warfarin 
the 
prothrombin  time  (INR)  should  be  closely monitored, 
in  the  2  weeks  following  initiation  of  the  3-day 
regimen of EMEND with each chemotherapy cycle, to 
establish and maintain the required dose of warfarin. 
therapy, 
of 
oral 
efficacy 
contraceptives 
during 
The 
administration  of  EMEND  may  be 
reduced. 
Alternative  or  back-up  methods  of  contraception 
should be used for 2 months following the last dose of 
EMEND. 
Chemotherapeutic 
though 
CYP3A4  (e.g.  etoposide,  vinorelbine,  docetaxel,  and 
paclitaxel). 
agents  metabolised 
Caution  is  advised  and  additional  monitoring  may  be 
appropriate in patients receiving such agents. 
Discussion on Clinical Pharmacology 
Clinical efficacy  
All  phase  II  and  III  studies  were  randomised,  double-blind  and  recruited  cisplatin  naïve  patients 
without concomitant therapy or complicating conditions likely to confound the assessment of efficacy.   
Dose response studies 
The phase II studies programme includes 5 dose and regimen finding studies (see table below).  
15/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table summarising the Phase II (IIa and IIb) studies conducted with aprepitant. 
Number 
of 
patients/ 
patients 
enrolled 
53 
Phase 
title). 
(Study 
Protocol 
(ref.) 
Dose 
Duration  of 
treatment 
P004L1 
Phase IIa - 
monotherapy 
study (Safety & 
tolerability & 
efficacy in 
cisplatin- 
induced emesis).  
A 9- to 12-
month initial 
study. 
L-758298 was 
administered IV 
initially at 60 mg and 
increased to 100 mg. 
Ondansetron was 
given at 32 mg IV. 
Both products were 
infused over 30 
minutes, beginning 60 
minutes before the 
start of cisplatin 
infusion. 
353 
Total patient 
monitoring 
time period 
of 17 to 29 
days. 
Phase IIa 
rationale for 
combination 
therapy (L-
754030 in 
cisplatin-
induced emesis). 
P012 
4 groups.  
Day minus 1: patients 
in group (C) received 
400 mg L-754030 
orally.  
Day 1: All patients 
received 
dexamethasone 
(20 mg orally). In 
addition, patients in 
group (A) received 
Study 
Description. 
design. 
Double blind, 
multicentre, 
randomised, controlled 
study (ondansetron). 
The study enrolled 
cisplatin naïve male and 
female patients. Patients 
were stratified 
according to gender and 
emetogenic 
chemotherapy 
(cyclophosphamide or 
doxorubicin). Cisplatin 
was given at doses 
ranging from 50 to 100 
mg/m2. Based on an 
interim assessment of 
the first 9 patients at the 
60-mg dose of L-
758298, treatment at 
this dose level was 
stopped and the dose 
was increased to 100 mg 
for all patients who 
were subsequently 
randomised to the L-
758298 treatment group; 
the investigators 
remained blinded to 
treatment. Rescue 
therapy was permitted 
for nausea or emesis at 
any time after cisplatin 
administration. Safety 
and tolerability were 
assessed through Day 
22 by clinical 
evaluations and 
laboratory safety tests. 
A double-blind, 
randomised, parallel-
group study to 
investigate the safety, 
tolerability, and efficacy 
of L-754030 in 
cisplatin-induced 
emesis. 
16/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Granisetron plus 
placebo, (B) 
granisetron plus L-
754030, in (C) and 
(D) placebo plus L-
754030. Granisetron 
was given at 10 µg/kg 
IV.  
Days 2 to 5: 300 mg 
L-754030 were given 
orally (groups B, C 
and D), patients in 
group A received 
placebo.  
Administration of 
metoclopramide in 
addition to 
dexamethasone as 
rescue therapy for 
Days 2 to 5 was also 
permitted. 
L-758298 100 mg IV 
or 32 mg IV of 
ondansetron both 
given with 
dexamethasone 20 mg 
IV on Day 1, 
followed by 300 mg 
of L-754030 or 
placebo once daily on 
Days 2 to 5. 
All patients received 
granisetron 10 µg/kg 
intravenous and 
dexamethasone 20 mg 
orally) to control 
emesis before 
cisplatin on Day 1. In 
addition, patients 
were randomised to 1 
of 3 treatment groups 
to receive: (A) daily 
doses of L-754030 on 
Days 1 to 5 (400 mg 
on Day 1 and 300 mg 
on Days 2 to 5 
orally); (B) a single 
dose of L-754030 on 
Day 1 (400 mg orally) 
and placebo orally on 
Days 2 to 5; or (C) 
placebo (orally) on 
Days 1 to 5. 
P007L1 
Phase IIa - 
rationale for 
combination 
therapy and 
dose duration 
(L-758298 plus 
dexamethasone 
in cisplatin-
induced emesis). 
P007 
Phase IIa - 
Dose duration 
(Efficacy in 
cisplatin-
induced delayed 
emesis). 
A 9-month 
initial study. 
177 
A 7-month 
initial study. 
161 
Double-blind, 
randomised, controlled 
study (ondansetron plus 
dexamethasone). The 
study involved cisplatin-
naïve patients. It was 
aimed at evaluating the 
efficacy of the product 
on prevention of both 
acute (0 to 24 hours) 
and delayed (Days 2 to 
5) emesis after cisplatin 
IV (>70 mg/m2). 
Double 
randomised, 
groups, 
controlled trial. 
blind, 
parallel 
placebo-
17/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
583 
Oral 
antiemetic 
study therapy 
for 5 days 
following 
cisplatin 
infusion with 
option of 
treatment for 
a total of 6 
cycles of 
cisplatin. 
in 
Multicentre, 
double-
randomised, 
blind, 
parallel-group, 
controlled  trial to assess 
the  safety  and  efficacy 
of  dosing  regimens  of 
the 
MK-0869 
prevention  of  emesis 
and  nausea  in  cisplatin-
naïve 
patients  with 
histologically  confirmed 
solid  malignancies  who 
were to be treated with a 
chemotherapy 
regimen 
that  included  cisplatin 
>70 mg/m2.  
Phase IIb - 
dose selection 
(Dose finding 
study of MK-
0869 for the 
prevention of 
acute and 
delayed chemo-
induced emesis). 
040/042  All patients were 
treated on Day 1 with 
a standard therapy 
regimen of 
ondansetron 32 mg 
given intravenously  
and dexamethasone 
20 mg given orally 
prior to cisplatin 
administration, and 
subsequently 
dexamethasone 8 mg 
orally daily on Days 2 
to 5. MK-0869 or 
placebo were 
administered orally 
over 5 days (375 mg 
day 1 prior to 
cisplatin and 250 mg 
days 2 to 5 or 125 mg 
day 1 and 80 mg days 
2 to 5 or 40 mg day 1 
and 25 mg days 2 to 
5). 
Based on data from the clinical pharmacology studies and the phase II studies the following regimen 
was eventually retained and tested in the confirmatory studies: 
Experimental regimen 
Product 
Aprepitant 125 mg po 
Day 1  Aprepitant 80 mg po once daily 
Days 2 to 3 
Ondansetron 32 mg IV 
Day 1 
Dexamethasone 12 mg po 
Day 1  Dexamethasone 8 mg po once daily 
Days 2 to 4 
It is acknowledged that for such a complex regimen involving three medicinal products, which may be 
administered  in  different  dosages  over  variable  time  periods,  it  is  difficult  let  alone  impossible  to 
explore  all  these  possible  combinations  empirically.  As  discussed  below,  several  important  points 
were, however, addressed in the exploratory studies. 
Aprepitant dosing: The 125/80-mg regimen was shown to be moderately more active than a 40/25-mg 
regimen.  This  is  of  some  interest  since  the  estimated  blockade  of  NK1  receptors  (not  taking  into 
account the crossing of the blood-brain barrier) at trough at a dose of 40/25 mg was between 80 and 
89%.    It  was  also  shown  that  administration  of  aprepitant  the  day  before  chemotherapy  does  not 
enhance the antiemetic effects of combination therapy. This observation supports the view that there is 
no  major  lag  phase  as  regards  plasma/liquor  levels  of  aprepitant.  PET  scan  data  after  repeat 
administration  are  therefore  of  likely  relevance  also  for  receptor  occupancy  on  the  first  day  of 
administration.  More  than  90%  occupancy  is  consequently  predicted  to  occur  on  day  1.  Altogether, 
this indicates that it was not meaningful to test higher dosages.  
Loading dose concept: No results supported this approach and a uniform 80/80-mg regimen might be 
as efficient.  Since there are no major dose-related safety concerns, this was not considered critical. 
18/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Duration of therapy: The need for further administration after day 1 was investigated in two studies. 
Trends were observed in both studies indicating that an administration after day 1 might be beneficial. 
In the study showing the strongest trend in favour of a prolonged administration, however, aprepitant 
was not given in association with 5-HT3 antagonists, resulting in a poor control of acute emesis,.  The 
need for further administration after day 1 was thus not considered firmly established.   
In the phase II studies aprepitant was administered until day 5.  In the confirmatory studies, however, 
only dosing days 1 to 3 was explored.  There are no data comparing 3 vs. 5 days of aprepitant therapy, 
but  as  dosing  only  day  1  has  a  clear  effect  on  delayed  emesis,  dosing  days  1  to  3  is  considered 
reasonable.  Further studies aiming at optimising the duration of therapy should be considered, but due 
to the safety profile of aprepitant, this is understandably not a prioritised area of drug development 
Associated medication: It was clearly shown that 5-HT3 antagonists must be associated to aprepitant to 
obtain  acceptable  control  of  acute  emesis.    A  lower  dose  of  these  products  than  the  maximum 
recommended  could  be  sufficient  to  control  the  symptoms.  In  general,  administration  of  5-HT3 
antagonists  after  day  1  is  weakly  supported  by  clinical  studies  therefore  a  unique  administration  on 
day 1 seems logical. 
Fully  recognising  the  established  role  of  glucocorticosteroids  for  the  control  of  acute  and  delayed 
CINV, it should  be  noted  that  the development programme was  not specifically designed to address 
the need to co-administer steroids with aprepitant. Available phase II data provide poor support for the 
need of dexamethasone for the control of acute emesis and there are no relevant data to support its use 
over days 2 to 4.  Finally, in order to compensate for the inhibition of metabolism of dexamethasone 
by  aprepitant  the  formal  dose  of  dexamethasone  was  lowered  compared  with  the  recommended 
standard doses. Further studies may be warranted 
The  possible  role  of  metoclopramide  in  combination  with  aprepitant  for  the  prophylaxis  of  delayed 
emesis was not explored. 
Main studies (phase III = therapeutic confirmatory trials)  
Two  Phase  III  studies  following  essentially  the  same  study  design  were  conducted  with  aprepitant; 
Protocol  052  was  conducted  primarily  in  the  United  States  and  Europe  and  Protocol  054  was  only 
conducted in Latin America. Both were multicentre, randomised, double-blind, parallel-group, controlled 
trials to assess the safety and efficacy of aprepitant in the prevention of CINV in cisplatin-naïve patients 
with  histologically  confirmed  solid  malignancies  who  were  treated  with  chemotherapy  regimens  that 
included cisplatin given at doses superior to 70 mg/m2 administered on a single day (see Table below).  
19/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  summarising  the  main  features  of  the  two  pivotal  phase  III  studies  conducted  with 
aprepitant. 
Number 
of 
patients/ 
patients 
enrolled 
534 
(Study 
Phase 
title). 
Protocol 
(ref.) 
Dose 
Duration 
treatment 
of 
P052 
Phase III 
(MK-0869 for 
chemotherapy-
induced 
nausea and 
vomiting). 
MK-0869 regimen 
for 3 days (MK-
0869 125 mg Day 1 
and MK-0869 80 
mg Days 2 and 3) 
in combination with 
ondansetron (Day 
1) and 
dexamethasone 
(Days 1 to 4). 
The study had 2 
treatment groups 
MK-0869 regimen 
vs standard therapy. 
MK-0869 Regimen 
= MK-0869 125 mg 
orally on Day 1 and 
80 mg orally once 
daily on Days 2 and 
3 plus ondansetron 
32 mg intravenous 
on Day 1 and 
dexamethasone 12 
mg orally on Day 1 
and 8 mg orally 
once daily on Days 
2 to 4. 
Standard therapy = 
Ondansetron 32 mg 
IV on Day 1 plus 
dexamethasone 20 
mg orally on Day 1 
and 8 mg orally 
twice daily on Days 
2 to 4. 
Study 
Description. 
design. 
in 
Multicentre, 
double-
randomised, 
blind, 
parallel-group, 
controlled  trial  to  assess 
the  safety  and  efficacy 
the 
of  MK-0869 
of 
prevention 
chemotherapy-induced 
nausea  and  vomiting 
(CINV)  in  patients  who 
were  naive  to  cisplatin 
chemotherapy  and  who 
treated  with  a 
were 
chemotherapy 
regimen 
included  cisplatin 
that 
>70 
The 
protocol 
2 
components.  The  first 
component  focused  on 
the  first  cycle  (Cycle  1) 
of  chemotherapy.  The 
second 
component 
consisted  of  an  optional 
multiple-cycle  extension 
for  up  to  5  subsequent 
cycles  of  chemotherapy 
(maximum  of  6  cycles 
total). 
mg/m2. 
had 
P054 
Idem study P052. 
Phase III 
(MK-0869 for 
chemotherapy-
induced 
nausea and 
vomiting). 
MK-0869 regimen 
for 3 days (MK-
0869 125 mg on 
Day 1 and MK-
0869 80 mg on 
Days 2 and 3) in 
combination with 
ondansetron on 
Day 1 and 
Dexamethasone 
daily on Days 1 to 
4. 
569 
Multicentre, 
randomised, 
blind, 
controlled trial. 
double-
parallel-group, 
These two studies had similar objectives and design. As far as the inclusion criteria are concerned a 
site-specific amendment allowed the enrolment of adolescents older than 12 years old (younger than 
18 years of age and weighting more than 40 kg) in study P052. 
The  protocols  had  2 components.  The  first  component  focused  on  the  first  cycle  (Cycle  1)  of 
chemotherapy.  The  second  component  consisted  of  an  optional  multiple-cycle  extension  for  up  to  5 
subsequent cycles of chemotherapy (maximum of 6 cycles total). 
20/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
The  primary  objective  was  in  cycle  1,  firstly  to  demonstrate  that  aprepitant  as  add  on  to  standard 
therapy was superior to standard therapy in the control of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting 
as  measured  by  the  proportion  of  patients  with  complete  response  in  the  120  hours  following  the 
initiation of high-dose cisplatin chemotherapy. Secondly, the objective of the study was to evaluate the 
safety and tolerability of the proposed triple therapy with aprepitant. 
The studies had 2 treatment groups: 
The  first  group  was  the  aprepitant  regimen  consisting  of  aprepitant  125 mg  given  orally  on  Day  1 
followed  by  80 mg  orally  once  daily  on  Days  2  and  3  plus  ondansetron  32 mg  IV  (for  adolescent 
patients  >12  but  <18  years  of  age,  3  doses  of  0.15  mg/kg  IV  on  Day  1)  and  dexamethasone  12 mg 
orally on Day 1 and 8 mg orally once daily on Days 2 to 4. 
The  second  group  of  patients  received  a  standard  therapy  consisting  of  ondansetron  32 mg  IV  (for 
adolescent patients >12 but <18 years of age, 3 doses of 0.15 mg/kg IV on Day 1) plus dexamethasone 
20 mg given orally on Day 1 and 8 mg orally twice daily on Days 2 to 4. 
1. 
Primary endpoints/assays 
Clinical  response  was  evaluated  with  a  patient  diary  that  was  completed  daily  for  5  days  after  the 
administration  of  cisplatin  (this  was  done  during  Cycle  1  only).  The  diary  captured  all  emetic 
episodes, all  use of  rescue therapy (only taken  for treatment  of established nausea  or emesis), and a 
daily nausea severity assessment. Patients were monitored for adverse experiences and tolerability at 
scheduled visits that occurred between Days 6 and 8 and Days 19 and 29 post cisplatin. 
The  primary  endpoint  was  the  proportion  of patients with complete response in the overall phase  in 
Cycle 1, defined as no emesis and no use of rescue therapy for treatment of either nausea or emesis in 
the 120 hours following the initiation of cisplatin chemotherapy in Cycle 1. In the optional multiple-
cycle extension, the patient diary was not used. The patient was asked, at the Days 6 to 8 visit for each 
cycle  that  the  patient  entered,  if  any  emetic  episodes  or  nausea  occurred  since  the  start  of 
chemotherapy for that specific cycle.  
A secondary endpoint was the impact of chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting on quality of life 
of patients assessed using the Functional Living Index—Emesis (FLIE) questionnaire during Cycle 1 
only. 
2. 
Statistical analysis 
Patients were randomised using a stratified randomisation schedule based on gender and concomitant 
use of emetogenic chemotherapy in addition to cisplatin. Primary analyses were based on a modified 
intention-to-treat  (MITT)  approach.  In  addition,  a  supportive  per-protocol  analysis  was  done  for  the 
primary efficacy parameter.  
The  modified  intention-to-treat  (MITT)  population  for  efficacy  includes  all  patients  who  received 
cisplatin, took a dose of study drug, and had at least one post-treatment assessment. The Per-Protocol 
(PP) population excluded those patients who were identified as protocol violators. This population was 
considered only for the evaluation of the primary efficacy hypothesis. 
The efficacy endpoints included complete response (primary endpoint: no emesis and no use of rescue 
medication  to  treat  established  nausea  or  emesis),  no emesis (no vomiting or retching or dry  heaves 
regardless of use of rescue medication), no significant nausea (maximum patient nausea self-assessed 
visual  analog  scale  [VAS]  rating  <25  mm),  no  nausea  (maximum  nausea  VAS  rating  <5  mm), 
complete protection (no emesis, no use of rescue medication, maximum nausea VAS rating <25 mm), 
and total control (no emesis, no use of rescue medication, maximum nausea VAS rating <5 mm). The 
impact of chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting on patients’ quality of life was assessed using 
the  Functional  Living  Index—Emesis  (FLIE)  questionnaire  during  Cycle  1  only.  For  the  efficacy 
endpoints, the proportions of patients having a favorable response were determined in the 2 treatment 
groups  and  the  groups  were  compared  using  logistic  regression  models  that  included  terms  for 
treatment,  gender,  use  of  concomitant  therapy,  and  region  (U.S./non-U.S.).  Time  to  first  emesis  and 
21/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
time  to  first  use  of  rescue  medication  were  analysed  using  a  log-rank  test.  The  severity  of  nausea 
measured  by  the  average  VAS  score  was  analysed  using  Wilcoxon  rank-sum  test.  Exploratory  (pre-
specified and non-prespecified) analyses were also performed. In secondary analyses the overall phase 
(0-120  hours)  was  separated/divided  into  an  acute  phase  (0-24  hours)  and  a  delayed  phase  (25-120 
hours). 
The multiple-cycle exploratory analyses addressed the no emesis and no significant nausea endpoints 
using the log-rank test for treatment comparisons. 
RESULTS 
3. 
Study populations/accountability of patients 
22/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
The baseline characteristics of the patients enrolled in studies P052 and P054 are displayed in the table below. 
Baseline patient characteristics 
P052 
Aprepitant   
Standard Th.  
(N=266) 
(N=268) 
Total   
(N=534) 
Aprepitant  
(N=283) 
P054 
Standard Th.  
(N=286) 
Total   
(N=569) 
n 
(%) 
n
(%)
n 
(%) 
n 
(%) 
n  
(%) 
n  
(%) 
168 
98 
2 
165 
99 
152 
45 
62 
7 
52 
187 
24 
3 
(63.2) 
(36.8) 
(0.8) 
(62.0) 
(37.2) 
(57.1) 
(16.9) 
(23.3) 
(2.6) 
(19.5) 
(70.3) 
(9.0) 
(1.1) 
168
100
2
178
88
153
47
56
12
56
185
25
2
(62.7)
(37.3)
(0.7)
(66.4)
(32.8)
(57.1)
(17.5)
(20.9)
(4.5)
(20.9)
(69.0)
(9.3)
(0.7)
336 
198 
4 
343 
187 
305 
92 
118 
19 
108 
372 
49 
5 
(62.9) 
(37.1) 
(0.7) 
(64.2) 
(35.0) 
(57.1) 
(17.2) 
(22.1) 
(3.6) 
(20.2) 
(69.7) 
(9.2) 
(0.9) 
148 
135 
0 
212 
71 
237 
27 
19 
0 
40 
231 
11 
1 
(52.3) 
(47.7) 
(0.0) 
(74.9) 
(25.1) 
(83.7) 
(9.5) 
(6.7) 
(0.0) 
(14.1) 
(81.6) 
(3.9) 
(0.4) 
146
140
0
220
66
248
21
17
0
38
235
12
1
(51.0) 
(49.0) 
(0.0) 
(76.9) 
(23.1) 
(86.7) 
(7.3) 
(5.9) 
(0.0) 
(13.3) 
(82.2) 
(4.2) 
(0.3) 
294 
275 
0 
432 
137 
485 
48 
36 
0 
78 
466 
23 
2 
(51.7) 
(48.3) 
(0.0) 
(75.9) 
(24.1) 
(85.2) 
(8.4) 
(6.3) 
(0.0) 
(13.7) 
(81.9) 
(4.0) 
(0.4) 
Gender: 
Male 
Female 
Age (yrs): 
-17  
18-64  
65+  
Alcohol Intake: 
No consumption 
1-4 drinks/week 
>4 drinks/week 
Missing data 
Cisplatin Dose: 
<70 mg/m2 
70-100 mg/m2 
>100 mg/m2 
No Cisplatin 
It  should  be  noted  that  differences  between studies are notable as regards gender, alcohol intake  age and percentage of patients receiving less than 70 mg/m2  of 
cisplatin  (criteria  for  inclusion  >70 mg/m2).  These  covariates  might  influence  outcome  in  study  052  in  a favourable direction.  There are, however, no important 
imbalances between study groups.    
23/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accounting for patients in study P052. 
Assessed for 
Eligibility (n=562)
Excluded (n= 32) 
Not meeting Inclusion criteria 
(n=25) 
Refused to participate (n=4) 
Other reasons (n=3) 
MK-0869 group 
Standard therapy group 
Randomised (n=530) 
Allocated to MK-0869 group (n=264) 
Received allocated treatment (n= 261) 
Did not receive Allocated treatment (n=3) 
Allocated to standard therapy group 
(n=266) 
Received allocated treatment (n=265) 
Did not receive Allocated treatment (n=1) 
Lost to follow-up (n= 1) 
Discontinued for clinical 
adverse experience (n=35) 
Lost to follow-up (n= 1) 
Discontinued for clinical 
adverse experience (n=27) 
Patients included in the MITT 
efficacy analyses (n = 260)  
Excluded from analysis (n= 1); 
this patient received a dose of 
study therapy but did not 
provide any efficacy data. 
Patients included in the MITT 
efficacy analyses (n= 261) 
Excluded from analysis (n= 3) 
one patient received a dose of 
study therapy but no cisplatin  
Three (3) patients received a 
dose of study therapy and 
cisplatin but did not provide 
any efficacy data. 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
24/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accounting for patients in study P054. 
Assessed for 
Eligibility (n=566) 
Excluded (n= 55) 
Not meeting Inclusion criteria 
(n=28) 
Refused to participate (n=14) 
Other reasons (n=13) 
MK-0869 group 
Standard therapy group 
Randomised (n=569)
Allocated to MK-0869 group (n=283) 
All patients received allocated treatment 
(i.e. n=283) 
Lost to follow-up (n=5) 
Discontinued for clinical 
adverse experience (n=44) 
Patients included in the MITT 
efficacy analyses (n = 262)  
Excluded from analysis (n=21); 
one patient received a dose of 
study therapy but no cisplatin 
and 20 patients (all randomised 
at the same study site) were 
excluded from the efficacy 
analyses due to unreliable 
efficacy data. 
Allocated to standard therapy group 
(n=286) 
Received allocated treatment (n=285) 
One patient received zero dose of study 
therapy and no cisplatin (n=1) 
Lost to follow-up (n=5) 
Discontinued for clinical 
adverse experience (n=40) 
Patients included in the MITT 
efficacy analyses (n.= 263) 
Excluded from analysis (n= 22) 
2 patients received study 
therapy and cisplatin but did 
not provide any efficacy data 
and 20 patients (all randomised 
at the same study site) were 
excluded from the efficacy 
analyses due to unreliable 
efficacy data. 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
25/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, 4 adolescent patients were enrolled in study P052, 2 in each of the treatment arm (all these 
patients were male between 14-17 years old). These patients were not included in the analyses. 
4. 
Efficacy results  
The  control  regimen  is  an  active  and  well-documented  regimen  with  respect  to  acute  and  delayed 
emesis  and  the  applicant’s  justification  for  not  including  metoclopramide  and  especially  5-HT3 
antagonists days 2 to 4 was considered to be reasonable.   
In both studies, the proportion of patients with an overall complete response (no emesis and no use of 
rescue  medication  due  to  nausea)  during  the  initial  chemotherapy  cycle  (primary  endpoint)  was 
statistically significantly higher in the aprepitant group compared to the standard therapy group in both 
studies  (p<0.001).  The  impact  of  chemotherapy  induced  nausea  and  vomiting  on  daily  life  was 
evaluated  using  the  FLIE  questionnaire.  The table below displays the percentage  of patients in each 
group  with  no  or  minor  impact  on  daily  life.    Missing  data  was  no  problem  for  this  first  cycle  of 
therapy.   
Modified Intention-to-Treat Analysis, pooled analyses, first cycle of therapy 
P052 and P054 combined 
Aprepitant 
Regimen 
Standard Therapy 
Differences* 
Endpoint 
Phase 
x/n 
% 
x/n 
% 
% 
(95% CI) 
Complete Response: 
No Emesis: 
No Sign. Nausea: 
Overall 
Acute 
Delayed 
Overall 
Acute 
Delayed 
Overall 
Delayed 
352/520
447/520
372/520
374/520
452/521
396/520
373/517
384/519
67.7   
86.0   
71.5   
71.9   
86.8   
76.2   
72.1   
74.0   
250/523 
383/523 
268/523 
260/523 
388/524 
280/523 
339/522 
350/523 
FLIE Total Score 
Overall 
377/507
74.4   
324/507 
47.8
73.2
51.2
49.7
74.0
53.5
64.9
66.9
63.9
19.9 
12.7 
20.3 
22.2 
12.7 
22.6 
7.2 
7.1 
(14.0-25.8) 
(7.9-17.6) 
(14.5-26.1) 
(16.4-28.0) 
(8.0-17.5) 
(17.0-28.2) 
(1.6-12.8) 
(1.5-12.6) 
10.5 
(4.8-16.1) 
*calculated on raw data; the primary analysis according to protocol used a logistic model and odds ratios 
x/n=number of patients with desired response/number of patients included in the analysis 
FLIE Total Score: patients completed the questionnaire 5 days after receiving chemotherapy (Day 6)   
In both the first 24 hours (“acute phase”) and during the following 25-120 hours (“delayed phase”) the 
percentage  of  complete  responders  was  significantly  higher  in  the  aprepitant  group  compared  to  the 
standard  therapy  group  in  both  studies  (p<0.001).  The  results  were  supported  by  the  per-protocol 
analysis. 
In the analysis by phase of proportion of patients with no emesis the aprepitant regimen was shown to 
be statistically significant more effective, overall and during the acute and delayed phase respectively 
(p<0.001). 
In both studies (P052, and P054 respectively) the proportion of patients with no impact of CINV on 
daily life was statistically significant higher in the aprepitant group compared to the standard therapy 
group (p=0.021 and p=0.007 respectively). 
As  regards  emesis,  the  efficacy  of  aprepitant  as  add-on  to  standard  therapy  has  been  convincingly 
demonstrated.  In the pooled analysis a statistically significant effect has also been shown as regards 
26/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
delayed nausea.  In the individual studies, the effect on “no significant nausea” defined as <25 mm on 
a 100 mm visual analogue scale was however borderline. 
Modified Intention-to-Treat Analysis, % Responders 
Endpoint 
P052 
No significant 
Nausea 
No Nausea 
Overall 
Delayed
Overall  
Delayed
* calculated on raw data 
Aprepitant 
73% 
75% 
48% 
51% 
Standard 
66% 
69% 
44% 
48% 
Difference 
95% CI 
-0%; +15% 
-0%; +15% 
-5%; +12% 
-5%; +12% 
P054 
Aprepitant 
71% 
73% 
49% 
53% 
Standard 
64% 
65% 
39% 
40% 
Difference* 
95% CI 
-0%; +15% 
-0%; +15% 
+2%; +18% 
+4%; +21% 
In general, the results in both treatment arms were slightly worse in the South American study, P054 
and  a  higher  percentage  of  women,  about  48%  vs.  37%,  might  at  least  partly  explain  this.    The 
absolute difference between study arms, however, was similar with respect to emesis.  As regards “no 
significant nausea” the results were also similar, while for “no nausea” a clearly significant difference 
between treatment arms was seen in P054, but not in P052.  This “inconsistency” might be regarded as 
minor, but normally “no nausea” would appear easier to define with consequent less variability.   
Kaplan-Meier Curves for Time to First Emesis (Study P052) 
In both studies, the Kaplan-Meier curves start to diverge at about 16 hours.  As discussed, the delayed 
phase of vomiting has previously been shown to emerge after about 16 to 18 hours after administration 
of  cisplatin.  The  distinctive  pattern  of  emetic  events  after  approximately  16  hours  is  shown  in  the 
figure below.  The figures below show all emetic events in the patients with acute emesis, not just the 
initial events shown in the Kaplan-Meier plots. 
27/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study P052 
Study P054 
i
s
e
d
o
s
p
E
c
i
t
e
m
E
f
o
r
e
b
m
u
N
20
15
10
5
0
Control (N=54)
Aprepitant (N=26)
25
20
15
10
5
0
Control (N=82)
Aprepitant (N=43)
0
4
8
12
16
20
24
Time
0
4
8
Nu
mb
12
Time
16
20
24
The observed pattern of emesis would support the interpretation that no add-on activity as regards the 
early phase of emesis is shown for aprepitant and that the early peak expected about 4 hours after the 
administration of cisplatin is almost completely abolished by standard therapy.   
With  respect  to  subgroups,  data  were  presented  for  stratification  variables.    Of  possible  importance 
was  the  observed  difference  between  studies  as  regards  the  effect  of  gender  on  study  outcome.  
Otherwise, there were no notable differences in the subgroup analyses. 
Modified-Intention-to-Treat Analysis, Complete Response (P052 and P054) 
P052 
Aprepitant 
Standard 
Female 
Male 
76/98 (78%) 
113/162 (70%) 
38/98 (39%) 
98/162 (61%) 
P054 
Aprepitant 
Standard 
67/118 (57%) 
96/142 (68%) 
51/121 (42%) 
63/142 (44%) 
The  Phase  III  studies  offered  an  optional  multiple-cycle  extension  of  up  to  5  additional  cycles  of 
blinded  treatment.    The  number  of  patients  who  entered  cycle  2  varied  from  97  (standard  therapy 
group, P054) to 132 (aprepitant group, P052).  As expected clearly fewer patients remained at cycle 6 
and varied from 12 (standard therapy group, P052) to 31 (aprepitant group, P052).   
Overall,  the  withdrawal  pattern  was  similar  comparing  experimental  and  control  arms,  but  after  the 
first cycle, numerically more patients were withdrawn in the experimental arm due to adverse events 
28/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  withdrawn  consent.    This  might  be  informative,  but  can  hardly  explain  the  seemingly  sustained 
difference in activity.   
A  study  specifically  designed  to  show  sustained  activity  over  cycles  of  therapy  would  need  re-
randomisation after the first treatment cycle in order to protect the study from carry-over effects.  
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The efficacy of aprepitant as add-on to standard therapy in the prevention of cisplatin induced CINV is 
considered  convincingly  demonstrated  in  terms  of  a  clinically  relevant  reduction  in  delayed  emesis 
and, less pronounced, as regards nausea.  
In  an  attempt  to  increase  the  understanding  of  the  activity  of  aprepitant,  the  apparent  differences  in 
efficacy between the pivotal studies were further explored.     
Some  risk  factors  are  known  to  affect  emetic  control.  It  is  generally  more  difficult  to  prevent  and 
control emesis in female than in male patients particularly among women with a history of persistent 
or  severe  emetic  symptoms  during  pregnancy.  It  is  more  difficult  to  prevent  and  control  emesis  in 
children  and  young  adults  than  in  older  patients  (the  last  factor,  age,  is  a  less  consistent  finding  in 
trials) and in patients with a history of incomplete antiemetic control during prior treatments. Finally, 
patients  who  have  chronically  consumed  alcohol  (frequently  defined  as  the  ingestion  of  more  than 
100 g  ethanol/day  for  several  years) are more likely to have complete emetic control than are “non-
drinkers”. 
An  attempt  to  identify  further  covariates  of  importance  for  acute  and  delayed  emesis  and  acute  and 
delayed  nausea  (separately)  was  made.  In  addition  to the covariates detailed above dose of cisplatin 
(><  median),  concomitant  emetogenic  chemotherapy  and  control  of  acute  phase  emesis/nausea  were 
considered. Similarly, a more detailed analysis and discussion as regards the apparently large gender 
related difference between studies was requested from the applicant. 
In  both  studies,  male  and  female  patients  receiving  the  aprepitant  regimen  consistently  had  a  better 
outcome than male and female patients treated with the control regimen, though the magnitude of the 
advantage provided by the aprepitant regimen varied between studies. 
29/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Percent of Patients With Favorable Response by Gender 
CINV Phase III Studies (Cycle 1) 
Protocol 052 
No Emesis 
Gender 
Aprepitant 
Standard Therapy 
Acute 
Delayed 
Protocol 054 
Female 
Male 
Female 
Male 
89/98 (90.8) 
145/162 (89.5) 
69/98 (70.4) 
138/163 (84.7) 
84/98 (85.7) 
126/162 (77.8) 
44/98 (44.9) 
109/162 (67.3) 
Percent of Patients With Favorable Response by Gender 
CINV Phase III Studies (Cycle 1) 
No Emesis 
Gender 
Aprepitant 
Standard Therapy 
Acute 
Delayed 
Female 
Male 
Female 
Male 
97/118 (82.2) 
121/143 (84.6) 
79/118 (67.0) 
107/142 (75.4) 
75/121 (62.0) 
106/142 (74.7) 
59/121(48.8) 
68/142 (47.9) 
The  variable  magnitude  of  the  advantage  provided  by  the  aprepitant  regimen  according  to  gender, 
however, could not be attributed to explored covariates. 
As  far  as  activity  against  acute  emesis  is  concerned,  more  patients  seem  to  report  break-through 
emesis  hours  8  to  16  in  study  P054.    This  difference  is  probably  not  informative  concerning  the 
activity of aprepitant as it was established prior to observable activity of the compound as add-on to 
standard  therapy.    Less  effective  control  of  acute  chemotherapy  induced  nausea  and  vomiting  may 
“explain” the overall poorer control of delayed nausea and vomiting in study P054.  The differences, 
however,  between  the  standard  and  experimental  arms  seemed  reasonably  similar  as  regards  emesis 
during the time periods defined as “acute” (0-24h) and “delayed” (25-120h).  
In order to illustrate the apparent relationship between control of acute and delayed emesis the 
following tables are presented. 
Protocol 052 
Categories of Delayed Emesis Among Patients Without Acute Emesis 
No emesis in delayed phase  
Aprepitant 
n/m       (%) 
 202/234     (86.3)    
Standard Therapy 
n/m        (%) 
 143/206   (69.4)    
Categories of Delayed Emesis Among Patients With Acute Emesis 
No emesis in delayed phase 
Aprepitant 
n/m       (%) 
8/26     (30.8)    
Standard Therapy 
n/m        (%) 
 10/54     (18.5)    
30/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
The results were similar in study 054. 
As regards the proposed indication, a major issue was whether it was appropriate or not to extrapolate 
from highly emetogenic cisplatin-based therapy to other highly emetogenic regimens. With respect to 
effects on acute CINV, cisplatin is generally regarded as a relevant model for other highly emetogenic 
regimens,  while  the  experience  as  regards  delayed  emesis  is  much  less  extensive.  Actually,  among 
existing antiemetics only the activity of glucocorticosteroids is considered reasonably well established 
for  the  prevention  of  cisplatin  induced  delayed  symptoms.  The  pathophysiology  of  CINV  and 
especially  delayed  emesis  is,  in  addition,  rather  ill  defined,  but  differences  in  the  emetic  pattern 
comparing  cisplatin  with,  e.g.  high-dose  cyclophosphamide  might  indicate  underlying  differences.  . 
Furthermore no non-clinical studies were designed to explore the activity of aprepitant with respect to 
add-on activity to standard therapy using different highly emetogenic regimens. It is also notable that 
in clinical studies aprepitant in monotherapy appears inferior to 5-HT3 antagonists as regards cisplatin-
induced acute emesis but, in contrast, shows activity with respect to delayed emesis. Altogether these 
observations do not support a general extrapolation.  
With respect to children and interactions, the applicant has committed to conduct further studies. 
Finally,  the  Rapporteur  acknowledged  the  proposed  presentations  which  are  consistent  with  the 
proposed posology and the treatment duration and regimen. 
Clinical safety 
Aprepitant is the first product in a new class of medicinal products.  There is therefore a very limited 
clinical experience as regards adverse reactions outside the studies programme for aprepitant1.   
Patient exposure 
The safety profile of aprepitant was evaluated in approximately 3300 individuals (see table below). 
Number of Subjects enrolled in the Development Programme of aprepitant 
Aprepitant  
formulation D 
Aprepitant,  
formulations a, b, c 
L-758298* (iv.) 
Total 
Clinical Pharmacology 
Phase II 
Phase III 
Total CINV 
Non-CINV 
Total 
356 
397 
549 
946 
180 
1482 
229 
369 
0 
369 
926 
1524 
*L758298 is a prodrug of aprepitant administered by the IV route. 
114 
149 
0 
149 
66 
329 
699 
547 
549 
1464 
1172 
3335 
1  The  terms  adverse  drug  reactions  and  adverse  events  are  used  according  to  the  current  EU  legislation.  An 
adverse  drug  reaction  is  defined  by  a  response  to  a  medicinal  product  which  is  noxious  and  unintended  and 
which  occurs  at  doses  normally  used  in  man  for  the  prophylaxis,  diagnosis  or  therapy  of  disease  or  for  the 
restoration,  correction  or  modification  of  physiological  function.  A  reaction,  contrary  to  an  event,  is 
characterised by the fact that a causal relationship between the drug and the occurrence is suspected. An adverse 
event  does  not  necessarily  have  a  causal  relationship  with  the  treatment.  Finally,  the  term  “severe”  is  not 
synonymous  with  serious.  Severe  is  used  to  describe  the  intensity  (severity)  of  a  specific  event  (as  in  mild, 
moderate or severe). 
Frequencies  are  expressed  according  to  the  EU  guideline  on summary of  product  characteristics  (Report from 
CIOMS  Working  Group  III,  Geneva  1995  terminology)  Very  common  (>1/10)  Common  (>1/100,  <1/10) 
Uncommon (>1/1,000, <1/100) Rare (>1/10,000, <1/1,000) Very rare (<1/10,000), including isolated reports. 
31/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
Number of Subjects Randomised to Aprepitant per Chemotherapy Cycle 
Cycle 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
Total Cycles 1 to 6 
Number of Patients 
1466 
500 
391 
280 
184 
135 
2956  
Adverse events and serious adverse event/deaths – discontinuation due to adverse reactions 
Clinical Adverse Experience Summary – Clinical Pharmacological Studies 
Number (%) of subjects with 
  No adverse experience 
  Adverse drug reactions 
  Discontinued due to adverse drug reaction 
  Serious adverse events 
Aprepitant or L-758298 
305 (51%) 
178 (30%) 
6 (1%) 
1* 
  Headache 
  Asthenia/fatigue 
  Dizziness 
*Blurred vision 
22% 
8% 
5% 
Placebo 
41 (35%) 
14 (12%) 
0 
0 
13% 
2% 
1% 
Clinical Adverse Experience Summary – CINV Phase III studies 
Adverse drug reactions 
Serious adverse events 
Serious adverse drug reactions 
Discontinued due to adverse drug reaction 
  Dizziness 
  Diarrhoea 
  Hiccups 
  Asthenia/fatigue 
Aprepitant n=544 
Number (%) of subjects  
93 (17%) 
73 (13%) 
2  
3  
Control, n=550 
Number (%) of subjects  
70 (13%) 
74 (13%) 
4 
2  
7% 
10% 
11% 
18% 
4% 
7% 
6% 
12% 
Further safety data were submitted in the applicant’s response and these derived from a double-blind 
study (Protocol 039) in which aprepitant (final market image) was administered at daily doses up to 3-
fold higher than the regimen for CINV for up to 8 weeks.  In this study, patients (n=361) with major 
depression were randomised to receive aprepitant 250 mg, aprepitant 375 mg, paroxetine, or placebo.  
The proportion of patients who discontinued treatment due to a clinical adverse experience was higher 
in the active treatment groups than in the placebo group (respectively, 16.5, 13.5, and 15.1% versus 
1.1%).  Similar results were observed for the proportion of patients who discontinued treatment from 
each  group  due  to  a  drug-related  clinical  adverse  experience.  Given  the  higher  exposure  and  longer 
duration of therapy, these data confirm an acceptable tolerability profile for the CINV indication. 
Infections  and  infestations  (including  safety  possibly  related  to  drug-drug  interactions  and  other 
interactions) 
There  were  signals  in  the  exploratory  studies  that  aprepitant  might  be  associated  with  an  increased 
incidence  of  infections,  including  neutropenic  fever.  In  the  phase  II  studies  programme  the  most 
notable finding was an increased incidence of fever, about 5-6% compared with 1.5% in the control 
group.  Actually, in study P040, the incidence of neutropenic fever was 6% in the experimental arm 
vs. 3% in the controls. These signals were attenuated in the confirmatory studies and during cycle 1 of 
the  confirmatory  studies  altogether  10+10/282+261  (3.7%)  infectious  events  were  reported  in  the 
32/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
aprepitant arms vs. 6+7/285+264 (2.4%), respectively. Phase II data may also have been confounded 
by a higher than expected exposure to glucocorticosteroids due enzyme inhibition by aprepitant.  
An apparent increase in infectious events related to the administration of some anti-cancer medicinal 
products metabolised by CYP3A4 was, however, noted, especially etoposide (18% vs. 9%, aprepitant 
vs.  control,  n=106+91)  and  vinorelbine  (18%  vs.  12%,  aprepitant  vs.  control,  n=82+76).  Further 
analyses using ANC as a measure of cytotoxicity did not provide evidence of enhanced cytotoxicity 
neither for chemotherapeutic agents in general metabolised by CYP3A4 or for the individual agents, 
e.g.  etoposide  or  vinorelbine.  These  analyses  were  weakened  by  the  non-ideal  sampling  intervals 
(baseline, days 6-8 and days 19-29).     
As  aprepitant  is  an  inhibitor  of  P-gp  in  vitro  results  as  regards  anthracyclines  were  also  detailed.  
There  were  no  conspicuous  findings  and  actually  the  interaction  study  conducted  with  digoxin 
indicates absence of relevant in vivo activity. 
Immune system disorders 
(See discussion in the non-clinical part of the report). 
Nervous system disorders 
In non-CINV studies, encompassing more than 1000 patients treated with aprepitant or L-758298 and 
close to 500 placebo subjects headache (17% vs. 12%) and somnolence (13% vs. 6%) appears to be 
aprepitant-related. 
With respect to common, non-serious adverse reactions in CINV studies, there is a clear association 
between  the  use  of  aprepitant  and  asthenia/fatigue  and  dizziness.  Headache  might  be  related  to 
duration of therapy, but this is not clear from the presentation of study data. 
Cardiac disorders 
Altogether 15 clinical pharmacology studies, mainly with automatic reading of ECGs, were reviewed 
without signals indicating QTc prolonging properties.  
In the Phase IIb study (Protocol 040/042), patients were administered aprepitant (40-mg, 125-mg, or 
375-mg capsules), plus ondansetron (32 mg IV) and dexamethasone (20 mg orally) on Day 1. Patients 
on  Standard  Therapy  received  placebo  for  aprepitant,  plus  ondansetron  (32  mg  IV)  and 
dexamethasone (20 mg orally) on Day 1. Electrocardiograms (ECGs) were performed at baseline 3 to 
5 hours after aprepitant dosing on Day 1, and at the Days 6 to 8 visits. 
Summary Statistics For QTc Interval (msec) Change From Baseline Data 
Phase IIb Study (Protocol 040/042) 
Aprepitant Dose 
N  
QTc  
Interval at  
Baseline 
Mean   
QTc Interval 
Change From Baseline 
Mean 
Median 
Min 
Max 
SD 
95% CI 
Aprepitant 40  mg          100 
Aprepitant 125 mg         152 
  8 
Aprepitant 375 mg        
Standard Therapy          149 
 403.8 
 411.6 
 445.7 
 401.0 
 10.5 
 1.7 
 -9.1 
 12.8 
 10.9 
 1.4 
 0.0 
 11.1 
 -247.7 
 -149.8 
   -57.5 
 -144.8 
  141.7 
  129.2 
 29.7 
  127.2 
  44.3 
  40.5 
  32.7 
  36.7 
(1.7, 19.2) 
(-4.8, 8.1) 
(-36.4, 18.2) 
(6.8, 18.7) 
From these data, no additional effect in terms of QTc prolongation was discernible.   
33/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
An  increased  incidence  of  diarrhoea  and  hiccups  was  observed  in  the  confirmatory  studies  in 
association with the use of aprepitant. 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
One single case of Stevens-Johnson was observed in the clinical trials and confounding factors were 
present. 
Investigations 
A  slightly  higher  incidence  of  grade  1  events  (ALT,  AST  and  ALP)  was  seen  in  aprepitant  treated 
individuals around days 6 to 8.   
Discussion on clinical safety 
The signal as regards infectious events constitutes a remaining concern.   Overall, however, the signal 
is  considered  rather  weak,  3.7%  vs.  2.4%,  aprepitant  and  control,  respectively  in  the  confirmatory 
studies.  
With respect to non-serious adverse reactions, there is an association between the use of aprepitant and 
central  nervous  system  adverse  reactions  such  as  asthenia/fatigue  and  dizziness  and  gastrointestinal 
reactions such as diarrhoea and hiccups.  
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the summary of product characteristics. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to 
the  uniform  clinical  performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a 
satisfactory  way.  There  are  no  unresolved  quality  issues,  which  have  a  negative  impact  at  the 
benefit/risk balance. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall,  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  studies  provided  adequate  evidence  that  aprepitant  is  a 
selective NK1 receptor antagonist that penetrates to the CNS. Aprepitant showed the desired mode of 
action  in  cisplatin-induced  emesis  in  ferrets.  The  Applicant  has  however  further  committed to study 
the duration of action of aprepitant in vivo. The general pharmacology studies showed no significant 
effects on major organ systems.  
Overall, the toxicology programme revealed a relatively low toxicity of aprepitant. However, it should 
be  noted  that  systemic  exposure  in  rodents  was  similar  or  even  lower  than  therapeutic  exposure  in 
humans. Adverse effects of possible relevance to humans included effects on reproductive organs and 
thymus in dogs. These findings were however only seen at high exposure multiples and is currently 
not  considered  of  any  clinical  significance.  Reproduction  toxicity  studies  did  not  allow  an  adequate 
evaluation  of  the  potential  risks  for  the  foetus  during  pregnancy  and  no  specific  studies  on  the 
immunotoxic potential of aprepitant have been performed. For the present, short-term indication, these 
shortcomings are accepted. 
This information is reflected in the summary of product characteristics. 
34/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy 
As regards efficacy clinically relevant and statistically convincing effects on delayed CINV have been 
documented  for  aprepitant  as  add-on  to  standard  therapy  in  patients  exposed  to  highly  emetogenic 
doses of cisplatin.  
Safety 
The signal as regards infectious events constitutes a remaining concern, otherwise the safety profile of 
aprepitant is reasonably well-documented.   
Benefit/risk assessment 
From  a  clinical  perspective,  the  benefit  risk  relationship  is  considered  favourable  and  there  are  no 
outstanding quality or non-clinical issues jeopardising this assessment.  At least for short-term therapy, 
aprepitant was well tolerated also at doses considerably higher than recommended for the treatment of 
CINV  and  efficacy  is  convincingly  demonstrated.    The  pharmacokinetic  interaction  profile  is 
complicated  including  inhibition  and  induction,  but  quantitatively  the  effects  are  rather  moderate,  at 
least on parenterally administered compounds.  
Recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
decision that the benefit/risk profile of EMEND in the treatment of “Prevention of acute and delayed 
nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cisplatin based cancer chemotherapy EMEND 
is given as part of combination therapy” was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of 
the marketing authorisation. 
35/35 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
