22 June 2017 
EMA/CHMP/356710/2017 
Human Medicines Evaluation Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
EMEND  
aprepitant 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000527/P46/041 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 16 March 2017, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for Emend, in accordance with 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
These data are also submitted as part of the follow up measure(s). 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
After the initial AR was finalized, the MAH submitted a correction regarding two tables (Table 11-9 and 
11-10) in the study report. This AR includes the assessment of the new corrected study report. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The MAH stated that MK-0869 Trial Protocol 219 titled “A Phase IIb, Partially-Blinded, Randomized, 
Active Comparator-Controlled Study to Evaluate the Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics, Safety, and 
Tolerability of Aprepitant in Pediatric Patients for the Prevention of Post Operative Nausea and 
Vomiting”  is not part of the PIP for aprepitant and was designed to support the U.S. paediatric 
requirements. 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
The aprepitant PIP covered the PONV as well as the chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting 
(CINV) indications and has already been completed. The paediatric indication for CINV in children from 
6 months to 17 years of age received a Commission Decision in 2015 as part of 
EMEA/H/C/000527/X/049. As part of this procedure also the PONV PIP study, P148 was submitted and 
the PK data were added to the SmPC, but no paediatric indication was proposed. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
• 
MK-0869 Trial Protocol 219 titled “A Phase IIb, Partially-Blinded, Randomized, Active 
Comparator-Controlled Study to Evaluate the Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics, Safety, and 
Tolerability of Aprepitant in Pediatric Patients for the Prevention of Post Operative Nausea and 
Vomiting” 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/356710/2017 
Rev04.14 
Page 2/9 
 
 
 
2.3.2.  Clinical study 
MK-0869 Trial Protocol 219 titled “A Phase IIb, Partially-Blinded, Randomized, Active 
Comparator-Controlled Study to Evaluate the Pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics, Safety, 
and Tolerability of Aprepitant in Pediatric Patients for the Prevention of Post Operative 
Nausea and Vomiting” 
Description 
Methods 
Objective(s) 
The primary objectives of the trial were pharmacokinetics and safety, with additional exploratory 
objectives to explore the efficacy of different doses compared to ondansetron with respect to: 
complete response (no vomiting, no retching and no use of rescue medication) and to no vomiting 
in the 24 hours following end of surgery, but also to compare the PK parameters obtained in paediatric 
subjects following administration of oral aprepitant to the parameters obtained in adults in study MK-
0869 protocol 107. 
Study design 
The study was a partially blinded, randomised, active comparator-controlled study. 
Study population /Sample size 
In summary, the trial was conducted in 43 centres in 15 countries and included around 220 patients 
from birth to 17 years of age. 
Subject/Patient Inclusion Criteria (as listed in study protocol) 
1.  Patient is from birth* (at least 37 weeks gestation and ≥3 kg of weight) to 17 years of age at 
the time of randomization. 
Note – for the Czech Republic, only patients 6 months to 17 years of age will be eligible 
for enrolment. 
2.  Parent/guardian (legally authorized representative) agrees to the patient’s participation as 
indicated by parent/legal guardian signature on the informed consent form. Patients 12-17 
years of age, or as required by local regulation, assents and has the ability to understand the 
nature and intent of the study including the ability to comply with study procedures, and is 
willing to keep scheduled study visits. The subject may also provide consent/assent for Future 
Biomedical Research. However, the subject may participate in the main trial without 
participating in the Future Biomedical Research. 
3.  Patient is scheduled to receive general anaesthesia AND:  
Patients must have at least one of the following risk factors for PONV (in addition to receiving 
general anaesthesia): 
Patient is scheduled to have a surgery with an associated risk of PONV: tonsillectomy, 
adenoidectomy, strabismus surgery, dental surgery, hydrocelectomy, orchidopexy or 
herniorraphy. 
-OR- 
Patient is scheduled to have an operative procedure associated with PONV: 
intraoperative opioid use or anticipated opioid administration within the first 24 
following surgery. 
4.  Patient falls within ASA Physical Status Classification I, II or III. (Appendix 6.1). 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/356710/2017 
Rev04.14 
Page 3/9 
 
 
 
 
5.  Female patient who has begun menses has a negative urine pregnancy test prior to 
randomization. Females of reproductive potential agree to remain abstinent or use a barrier 
form of contraceptive for at least 14 days prior to, throughout, and for at least 1 month 
following the last dose of study medication. Females taking oral contraceptive agents must 
agree to add a barrier form of contraception. For countries where abstinence is not considered 
an accepted method of birth control, a locally acceptable birth control method must be used. 
Subject/Patient Exclusion Criteria 
1.  Patient is undergoing emergency surgery for a life threatening condition. 
2.  Patient is scheduled to receive propofol for maintenance of anaesthesia. (Note: propofol is 
permitted for induction of anaesthesia). 
3.  Patient is expected to receive opioid antagonists (e.g., naloxone, naltrexone) or 
benzodiazepine antagonists (e.g., flumazenil). 
4.  Patient is scheduled to undergo cardiac or neurosurgery. 
5.  Patient has vomiting caused by any organic aetiology (such as gastric outlet obstruction or 
small bowel obstruction). 
6.  Patient has vomited within 24 hours prior to surgery. 
7.  Patient is pregnant or breast-feeding. (Female patients of child bearing potential are required 
to have a negative urine pregnancy test prior to entering the study on the morning of surgery).  
8.  Patient has a nasogastric or oral gastric tube intra- or post-operatively for suctioning gastric 
contents (Note: nasogastric or oral gastric tube intra- or post-operatively may ONLY be used 
for feeding. Patients should be excluded if a nasogastric or oral gastric tube for suctioning is 
routinely used for the type of surgery to be performed). 
9.  Patient has abnormal laboratory values as follows (deviations from these guidelines require 
discussion with the Merck Clinical Monitor): 
a.  Liver Function 
i.  AST >1.5 x upper limit of normal for age. 
ii.  ALT >1.5 x upper limit of normal for age. 
iii.  Bilirubin >1.5 x upper limit of normal for age. 
b.  Renal Function 
iv.  Creatinine >1.5 x upper limit of normal for age 
10. Patient has an active infection (e.g., pneumonia), congestive heart failure, bradyarrythmia, any 
uncontrolled disease (e.g., diabetic ketoacidosis, gastrointestinal obstruction) except for 
malignancy, or a history of any illness which in the opinion of the investigator, might confound 
the results of the study or pose unwarranted risk in administering study drug or concomitant 
therapy to the patient. 
11. Patient is mentally incapacitated or has a significant emotional or psychiatric disorder that in 
the opinion of the investigator precludes study entry.  
12. Patients with a known history of QT prolongation or is taking any medication that is known to 
lead to QT prolongation. 
13. Patient is currently a user of any illicit drugs, including marijuana or has current evidence of 
alcohol abuse (defined using DSM-IV criteria) as determined by the investigator. 
14. Patient has ever participated in a study with aprepitant or fosaprepitant, is currently 
participating in a study with another NK-1 antagonist, or has taken a non-approved 
(investigational) drug within the last 4 weeks. 
15. Patient is allergic to aprepitant, ondansetron or any 5-HT3 antagonist. 
16. Patient is taking the anti-coagulant warfarin. 
17. Other Excluded Medications. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/356710/2017 
Rev04.14 
Page 4/9 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatments 
Patients were randomised to either control regimen of ondansetron intravenously (iv) or aprepitant as 
oral solution (see table below):  
Outcomes/endpoints 
See above 
Statistical Methods 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
Baseline data 
Number of subjects in each age category was balanced between treatment groups. There was a slightly 
smaller proportion female patients (in adults, female gender is a risk factor for PONV) in the 
comparator group treated with ondansetron, see table below: 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/356710/2017 
Rev04.14 
Page 5/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
A popPK (population pharmacokinetic) model of aprepritant has previously been developed based on 
three completed studies, oral administration of aprepritant (capsule) to adolescent (P097), paediatric 
patients, 0.5-17 years, receiving either oral aprepitant (suspension) or IV fosaprepitant (P134) and 
patients from 0.5-17 years reiving oral administration of aprepitant (suspension; P148).  
The popPK analysis was assessed in procedure EMEA/H/C/527/X/49/G and the model was concluded to 
adequately describe the observed data across all age categories and may be considered for 
simulations. 
The model was recently updated including available PK data, not yet reported/submitted, following an 
iv single dose of fosaprepitant (concomitantly with IV ondansetron) in paediatric cancer patients birth 
to 17 years of age (P029). The updated model does not include a function for CYP3A4 maturation, 
which is an important component in children less than 2 years. The appropriateness of the population 
PK model to perform simulations to derive full PK profiles for subjects in Protocol 219 was evaluated 
using visual predictive checks (VPCs) on concentration-time profiles of aprepitant, see figure below.  
Summary statistics of predicted plasma PK parameters comparison following a 40 mg oral 
administration of aprepitant in paediatric and adult subjects are shown in the table below. 
Pharmacokinetic analyses demonstrated a dose-exposure relationship in the aprepitant treatment 
groups in all age cohorts across all doses evaluated in this study. As compared with adults, 40-mg 
aprepitant in paediatrics (<12 years) provides exposures (AUC0-inf and Cmax) that are generally 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/356710/2017 
Rev04.14 
Page 6/9 
 
 
 
 
higher, and increasing with decrease in age, than those observed in adults. Particularly, in the birth to 
<2-year age group, upper confidence intervals of geometric mean ratios were greater than 2.5 for both 
AUC0-inf and Cmax values. In contrast, a single 40-mg dose of aprepitant in adolescent subjects 12 to 
17 years of age resulted in exposures (AUC0-inf, Cmax) generally comparable with adults.  
Efficacy results 
The odds of Complete Response relative to ondansetron were similar in all three aprepitant treatment 
groups, see table below: 
Number of subjects with complete response in the 24 hours following the end of surgery, 
Intent to treat population (ITT) 
For the aprepitant dose comparisons and with regard to ondansetron, the observed differences were 
not clinically meaningful for neither “complete response” nor “no vomiting”. However, the trial was not 
powered to evaluate efficacy. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/356710/2017 
Rev04.14 
Page 7/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety results 
Adverse events (AE) occurred most frequently in subjects below two years of age. AEs were reported 
by 39.5% (87/220 subjects) of the total population. AEs were reported for 37% (62/168 subjects) of 
subjects in the aprepitant group compared to 48,1% (25/52 subjects) in the ondansetron group, and 
there was no consistent pattern noted within an age category. Two aprepitant-treated subjects 
experienced AEs that were considered drug-related. One subject in the aprepitant 125-mg treatment 
group had an AE of electrocardiogram QT prolongation (mild); the investigator assessed this event as 
possibly related to both aprepitant and ondansetron. One subject in the aprepitant 40-mg treatment 
group had an AE of tachycardia (moderate), which the investigator assessed as related to ondansetron. 
However, neither of these two patients with drug-related AEs received ondansetron, both received 
aprepitant. Nine subjects experienced 10 SAEs. None were considered related to study medication, and 
all resolved. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Aprepitant was tested at three different dose levels equivalent to 10, 40 and 125 mg in adults and 
compared to a control regimen with ondansetron. One inclusion criteria was anticipation of intra- or 
post- operative opioid use. Different types of opioids, and different routes of administration, are more 
or less emetogenic. This opens for a potential heterogeneous study population which could hamper the 
comparison between study groups. Exclusion criteria’s are deemed reasonable.  
There is a small numerical difference in efficacy between the different dosing regimens of aprepitant 
and ondansetron, but not statistically nor clinically significant (an increase in complete response of 
approximately 5 percentage points compared to the 80 % achieved by ondansetron). 
In the aprepitant arms 2 patients experienced AEs that were considered related to study drug 
(aprepitant or ondansetron); QT prolongation (mild), and tachycardia (moderated) respectively. These 
single cases are not on their own sufficient to conclude an ADR in the absence of other supporting 
circumstances (e.g. positive re-challenge). In two previous non-clinical repeated dose toxicity studies 
that was filed for the initial application of aprepitant, ECG measurements did not demonstrate any 
effects on the cardiovascular system, in particular on the QT interval, at exposures up to 80-fold over 
clinical exposure. Tachycardia has previously been reported in 0.7% - 2% for subjects receiving 
different doses of aprepitant in a pattern potentially compatible with a dose-response relationship 
(EPAR 2007-02-14), but is not currently included as ADR in the SmPC. 
3.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
Overall conclusion 
The corrected study report (correction of tables 11-9 and 11-10) provided by the MAH have been 
assessed and the corrections provided does not impact the end results of the assessment. Further, it 
does not entail any changes (compared to the previous version) of this assessment report, apart from 
this paragraph and the information in the introduction. 
A population PK model was used to describe the PK data collected in the P219 study. Due to the use of 
model-based exposure comparisons between adults and children enforces high demands on the 
accuracy of the population PK model. However, in this procedure, no formal assessment has been 
conducted as no full model report has been provided. Hence the reported information does not provide 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/356710/2017 
Rev04.14 
Page 8/9 
 
 
 
 
sufficient support for a change in the SmPC. In general, in paediatrics patients below the age of 12 
years higher aprepitant exposures (AUC0-inf and Cmax) were observed following a 40 mg oral 
administration compared to adults. For adolescent subjects 12 to 17 years of age exposures were 
comparable to adults. 
The data provided in the paediatric study report P219 were not powered for efficacy. Numerically 
slightly higher response rates were observed for aprepitant compared to ondansetron. Regarding 
assessment of clinical safety, the study report does not contain new data that provides sufficient 
support for a change in SmPC.  
However, the following safety data should be submitted by the MAH within the next PSUSA: A 
cumulative review of frequency of tachycardia in different aprepitant dosing groups for adults and 
children below the age of 18, respectively. SmPC wording should be proposed, if appropriate.  
4.  Recommendation  
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
EMA/356710/2017 
Rev04.14 
Page 9/9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
