Part VI: Summary of the Risk Management Plan 
Summary of Risk Management Plan for Emgality (Galcanezumab) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Emgality. The RMP details 
important risks of Emgality, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will 
be obtained about Emgality’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Emgality’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Emgality should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Emgality should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all of which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR)]. 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Emgality’s 
RMP. 
I - The Medicine and What It is Used for 
Emgality is authorised for prophylaxis of migraine in adults who have at least 4 migraine days 
per month (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains galcanezumab as the active substance 
and it is given by subcutaneous injection. 
Further information about the evaluation of Emgality’s benefits can be found in Emgality’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage [this line should be only edited by EMA link to the EPAR summary landing 
page]. 
II - Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or 
Further Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of Emgality, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Emgality’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products include: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed including Periodic Safety Update Report assessment so that immediate action 
can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Emgality is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
 
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Emgality are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of Emgality. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Serious hypersensitivity 
Serious cardiovascular outcomes in patients at high risk of cardiovascular and 
cerebrovascular events 
Missing information 
Use in pregnancy 
Long-term safety including malignancies 
Hypertension during pregnancy and pre-eclampsia 
II.B Summary of Important Risks 
Important Identified Risk: Serious Hypersensitivity 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the medicine 
Antidrug antibody levels that developed after starting galcanezumab did not appear to 
impact its safety profile in patients who had reported hypersensitivity events. This 
applied regardless of duration of galcanezumab exposure and magnitude of the antidrug 
antibody levels measured. 
The current evidence is from the clinical development programme and from 
postmarketing reports. 
In the clinical development programme, hypersensitivity events were observed at a 
higher incidence in galcanezumab-treated patients compared to placebo. This finding 
was consistently observed across all the clinical trials with galcanezumab, and the 
evidence was considered sufficient to conclude that some hypersensitivity reactions 
(urticaria, pruritus, and injection site reactions) were adverse effects of the product. 
The profile in the clinical development programme has been mainly characterised by 
skin events (urticaria and pruritus), which were mild or moderate in severity and 
associated with nonserious outcomes. 
Relatively low patient exposure in the trials did not allow detection of rare 
hypersensitivity events. However, post-marketing cases of serious hypersensitivity 
reactions, including anaphylaxis, angioedema, and urticaria, have been reported. 
Patients with a history of hypersensitivity to monoclonal antibodies or therapeutic 
proteins were excluded from the clinical development programme, therefore it is not 
known if previous hypersensitivity to another biological product constitutes a risk 
factor for treatment with galcanezumab. 
No significant dose-response has been observed between the galcanezumab 120 mg 
and the 240 mg dose groups in the frequency of hypersensitivity TEAEs. No trend for 
an increase in the by-monthly frequency of hypersensitivity events is evident with 
additional exposure to galcanezumab. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
 
 
Important Identified Risk: Serious Hypersensitivity 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC Section 4.8 and PL Section 2 
•  SmPC Section 4.3 includes a contraindication in patients with known 
hypersensitivity to galcanezumab or to any of the excipients. 
•  SmPC Section 4.4 provides guidance to discontinue galcanezumab and start 
appropriate therapy if a serious hypersensitivity reaction occurs. 
•  PL Section 4 provides guidance to the patient to stop using galcanezumab and 
tell their doctor if they think that they have had an allergic reaction. 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Galcanezumab European Drug Utilisation and Safety Outcomes Study 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Galcanezumab US Drug Utilisation and Safety Outcomes Study 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
Abbreviations: PL = package leaflet; SmPC = summary of product characteristics; TEAEs = treatment-emergent 
adverse events. 
Important Potential Risk: Serious Cardiovascular Outcomes in Patients at High Risk of Cardiovascular 
and Cerebrovascular Events 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the medicine 
Data from the clinical development programme reported in this Marketing 
Authorisation Application have not demonstrated a signal for serious cardiovascular 
events for up to 1 year of exposure to galcanezumab. There is therefore no current 
evidence that serious cardiovascular risk either is an adverse effect of galcanezumab 
nor has any ostensible impact on the benefit-risk profile. However, relatively few 
patients have been exposed for up to 1 year and long-term data in a chronic condition 
such as migraine are missing, so the implications of chronic CGRP inhibition in 
patients remain uncertain. This uncertainty notably relates to cardiovascular safety 
given that nonclinical studies suggest that CGRP plays an important role in facilitating 
vasodilatation to various stimuli including acute ischaemia and the target population is 
at higher risk of ischaemic cardiovascular outcomes. 
Patients with a medical history or pre-existing CVD, or risk factors for cardiovascular 
events were included in the Phase 3 clinical trials, with approximately 17% to 19% of 
patients identified with pre-existing cardiac risk factors. However, patients with recent 
acute cardiovascular events and/or serious cardiovascular risk within the 6 months 
before enrolment were excluded from the Phase 3 migraine trials. In addition, patients 
with a lifetime history of stroke were excluded from 2 Phase 3 studies. As a result, the 
cardiovascular safety of the product in the migraine population at higher risk represents 
a gap in knowledge. 
No specific risk factors have been identified for cardiovascular outcomes in patients 
treated with galcanezumab. 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
•  SmPC Section 4.4 states that patients with certain major cardiovascular 
diseases were excluded from clinical studies and cross-references  to section 
5.1 for additional details on these patients. 
•  PL Section 2 advises patients to inform their HCP if they have serious 
cardiovascular disease. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
 
 
 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Galcanezumab European Drug Utilisation and Safety Outcomes Study 
Galcanezumab US Drug Utilisation and Safety Outcomes Study 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
Important Potential Risk: Hypertension During Pregnancy and Pre-eclampsia 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the medicine 
The majority of patients with migraine are females of child-bearing age; therefore, 
pregnancy is likely to occur in women who are exposed to galcanezumab. In addition, 
women with migraine are thought to be at an increased risk for pre-eclampsia 
compared to women without migraine, due to disordered reactivity of the blood vessels 
and abnormal platelet activity. Studies performed in multiple countries have 
demonstrated that women with migraine experience a 1.4 - 4.0 fold increased risk of 
pre-eclampsia relative to non-migraine controls. 
There was no evidence of an increased risk of hypertension or pre-eclampsia in patients 
exposed to galcanezumab in pregnancy during clinical development; however, 
experience in pregnancy was very limited. Of 16 pregnancies reported, one mother 
experienced pre-eclampsia (6.25% of pregnancies). This is consistent with the World 
Health Organisation’s global estimate of pre-eclampsia in the general population (2- 
8%). Given the biological mechanism of galcanezumab and the role of CGRP in 
pregnancy, there is a theoretical rationale for including hypertension and pre-eclampsia, 
as an important potential risk among women with migraine who are exposed to 
galcanezumab during pregnancy. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Other than the subset of treated migraine patients who become pregnant who, in 
general are at higher risk of hypertension in pregnancy or pre-eclampsia, no specific 
risk factors have been identified for galcanezumab as experience of pre-eclampsia is 
confined to one case (6.25%). 
Preventability: 
Current experience of the use of galcanezumab in pregnancy and hypertension /pre- 
eclampsia is too limited to provide data on the predictability of the potential risk or 
factors that could increase the risk. Routine management of pregnancy, irrespective of 
any treatment received, includes regular blood pressure monitoring as a standard 
measure. In these circumstances, it would be expected that clinically concerning 
increases in BP as a possible predictor of pre-eclampsia would be detected as part of 
standard clinical practice. 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
•  None beyond proposed wording for use in pregnancy in SmPC Section 4.6 
and section 2 of the PL. 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Cohort Study of Exposure to Galcanezumab during Pregnancy 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Abbreviations: BP = blood pressure; CGRP = calcitonin gene-related peptide; CVD = cardiovascular disease; 
EU = European Union; GVP = good pharmacovigilance practice; HCP = health care professional; 
SmPC = summary of product characteristics. 
 
Missing Information: Use in Pregnancy 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC Section 4.6 provides guidance that as a precautionary measure, it is 
preferable to avoid the use of galcanezumab during pregnancy. Emgality 
could be considered during breastfeeding only if clinically needed. It is 
specifically recommended that women of childbearing potential use an 
effective method of contraception during treatment and for at least 5 months 
after treatment. 
•  PL Section 2 advises women to avoid becoming pregnant while using 
galcanezumab and also recommends using contraception while using Emgality 
and for at least 5 months after the last Emgality dose. Women who are breast- 
feeding or planning to breast-feed are advised to talk to their doctor before 
using this medicine. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Cohort Study of Exposure to Galcanezumab during Pregnancy 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
Abbreviations:  SmPC = summary of product characteristics. 
Missing Information: Long-Term Safety Including Malignancies 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
•  SmPC Section 5.3 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Galcanezumab European Drug Utilisation and Safety Outcomes Study 
Galcanezumab US Drug Utilisation and Safety Outcomes Study 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
Abbreviations:  SmPC = summary of product characteristics. 
 
 
 
 
II.C Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 Studies that are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Emgality. 
II.C.2 Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
Study short name: Cohort Study of Exposure to Galcanezumab during Pregnancy 
Purpose of the study: 
Pregnant women were not included in the clinical development programme; however, the 
indicated population is predominantly women, many whom are of childbearing age. The 
population of pregnant women treated with galcanezumab is therefore one which warrants 
further characterisation, as effects on the foetus after exposure in utero are unknown. For risk 
management purposes, this represents missing information as adverse outcomes in pregnancy 
could impact benefit-risk. Additionally, some non-clinical studies have shown that CGRP is an 
important factor in blood pressure regulation during pregnancy and that low CGRP levels have 
been associated with pre-eclampsia. Given that there is a theoretical rationale for hypertension 
during pregnancy and pre-eclampsia, these are considered to be important potential risks. This 
post-authorisation observational study will actively monitor exposure to galcanezumab during 
pregnancy among women with migraine or cluster headache, study the incidence of pregnancy 
outcomes (including hypertension during pregnancy and pre-eclampsia) in women with 
galcanezumab exposure, and compare the incidence of pregnancy outcomes to other women with 
migraine, including those receiving other prophylactic medication for the treatment of migraine. 
Study short name: Galcanezumab European Drug Utilisation and Safety Outcomes Study 
Purpose of the study: 
The longer-term safety of galcanezumab (beyond 1 year) has not been established through the 
clinical trial programme.  Migraine is a chronic condition; therefore, long-term galcanezumab 
use beyond 1 year is reasonably anticipated in routine clinical practice. Therefore, adverse 
effects which are infrequent, have a longer latency period such as malignancy, and/or are 
infrequent among migraine patients such as serious hypersensitivity could occur. Additionally, 
patients with recent acute cardiovascular events and/or serious cardiovascular risk, as well as 
patients over the age of 65, were excluded from the clinical trial population and use in this group 
of patients may also occur in everyday clinical practice. The implications of long-term inhibition 
of CGRP are unknown, including the impact on long-term safety. As a result, the long-term 
safety of galcanezumab in larger patient populations requires further characterisation 
The objective of this study is to evaluate the utilisation and long-term safety of galcanezumab, 
including cardiovascular safety, malignancy, and serious hypersensitivity events in routine 
clinical practice. 
The secondary objective is to provide context for incidence rates of safety events seen in the 
galcanezumab cohort by describing the incidence rates observed in a comparator cohort and, as 
 
feasible, to conduct comparative safety analyses of serious cardiovascular events, serious 
hypersensitivity reactions, and malignancies using patients initiated on other prophylactic 
migraine medication as a control. 
Study short name: Galcanezumab US Drug Utilisation and Safety Outcomes Study 
Purpose of the study: 
The longer-term safety of galcanezumab (beyond 1 year) has not been established through the 
clinical trial programme. As migraine is a chronic condition, potential longer-term use beyond 
1 year is anticipated in routine clinical practice. Therefore, adverse effects that have a longer 
latency period such as malignancy, and/or are infrequent among migraine patients such as 
serious hypersensitivity could occur. Additionally, patients with recent acute cardiovascular 
events and/or serious cardiovascular risk, as well as patients over the age of 65, were excluded 
from the clinical trial population and use in this group of patients may also occur in everyday 
clinical practice. The implications of long-term inhibition of CGRP are unknown, including the 
impact on long-term safety. As a result, the long-term safety of galcanezumab in larger patient 
populations requires further characterisation. 
The objective of this study is to evaluate the utilisation and long-term safety of galcanezumab, 
including cardiovascular safety, malignancy, and serious hypersensitivity events in routine 
clinical practice. 
The study also aims to understand the risk of specified safety events in patients receiving 
galcanezumab relative to adult patients who initiated treatment with another prophylactic 
migraine medication. Safety events observed in the primary objective will inform the design of 
comparative analyses. 
