Summary of risk management plan for EMPLICITI 
(elotuzumab)  
The RMP details important risks of EMPLICITI, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about EMPLICITI’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
EMPLICITI’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how EMPLICITI should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for EMPLICITI should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of EMPLICITI’s 
RMP.  
I.  The medicine and what it is used for 
EMPLICITI is authorised for treating multiple myeloma. Empliciti is approved in several 
countries in combination with Ld and dexamethasone in adults who have received at least one 
prior therapy and in combination with pomalidomide and dexamethasone for the treatment of 
adult patients with relapsed and refractory MM who have received at least two prior therapies 
including lenalidomide and a proteasome inhibitor and have demonstrated disease progression on 
the last therapy (see SmPC for full indications). Empliciti contains elotuzumab as the active 
substance and it is given by intravenous infusion.  
Further information about the evaluation of EMPLICITI’s benefits can be found in 
EMPLICITI’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, 
under the medicine’s webpage. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or 
further characterise the risks  
Important risks of EMPLICITI, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about EMPLICITI’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
  
 
If important information that may affect the safe use of EMPLICITI is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of EMPLICITI are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of EMPLICITI. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be 
collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Infusion reaction 
Infections 
Second Primary Malignancies 
Important potential risks 
Hypersensitivity and Anaphylactic reaction 
Missing information 
Safety in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
Important identified risk 
Infusion Reaction 
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine 
In clinical trials with elotuzumab, infusion reactions were mild 
to moderate using the premedication mandated by the study 
protocols. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
No risk groups can be identified. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4, 
and 4.8. In addition, the package leaflet also includes specific 
warning and description of the infusion reaction in a language 
suitable for the patient. 
  
 
 
 
Important identified risk 
Infections 
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine 
Multiple myeloma is associated with immune dysfunction and 
the natural course of the disease includes increased infection 
risk. As such, infection can be a marker of clinical 
deterioration and disease progression 
Risk factors and risk groups 
No risk groups can be identified. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: SmPC sections 4.4 and 
4.8.  
Important identified risk 
Second Primary Malignancies 
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine 
Prognosis of second primary malignancies, depending from the 
nature of the malignancy and the primary organ, may vary 
between good to potentially very poor prognosis. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
No risk groups can be identified.   
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: SmPC sections 4.4 and 
4.8 
Important potential risk 
Hypersensitivity and Anaphylactic reaction 
Evidence for linking the risk to the medicine 
Anaphylaxis is a severe, potentially life-threatening allergic 
reaction. Hypersensitivity reactions may vary in severity from 
unpleasant to potentially life threatening. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Missing Information 
No risk groups can be identified. 
Routine risk minimisation measures:  
SmPC sections 4.2 and 4.4 
Safety in patients with moderate and severe hepatic impairment 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: SmPC section 4.2 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
EMPLICITI®.  
  
 
 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for EMPLICITI®. 
  
