This  module  reflects 
For information on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
the 
initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Emselex.  
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Novartis  Pharma  AG  has  submitted  a  Marketing  Authorisation  Application  through  the  Centralised 
Procedure,  for  the  medicinal  product EMSELEX, containing darifenacin hydrobromide. The applied 
indication  is  “symptomatic  treatment  of  urge  incontinence  and/or  increased  urinary  frequency  and 
urgency as may occur in patients with overactive bladder syndrome” 
This  is  a  complete  and  independent  marketing  authorisation  application,  as  stated  in  Art.  8  (3)  of 
Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended. The provided data cover all aspects of the clinical characterization 
of  safety  and  efficacy  of  darifenacin.  The  applicant  has  submitted  the  results  of  non-clinical  and 
clinical studies carried out for the application.  
Urinary  incontinence  is  defined  by  the  International  Continence  Society1  as  the  complaint  of  any 
involuntary  leakage  of  urine.  It  is  a  common  and  chronic  condition  in  women.  While  not  life-
threatening,  it  can  have  a  significant  negative  impact  on  the  psychological  well-being,  social 
functioning and overall quality of life of those affected. 
The ability to hold urine and maintain continence is dependent on normal function of the lower urinary 
tract,  the  kidneys,  and  the  nervous  system.  The  bladder's  ability  to  fill  and  store  urine  requires  a 
functional sphincter and a stable bladder wall muscle (detrusor). 
Two phases are involved in  the  process of urination: the filling and storage phase and the emptying 
phase. 
Undesired bladder muscle contraction may occur as the result of a break in the neurological pathway 
from the brain to the bladder. It can also occur if the bladder is irritated and the normal neurological 
impulses to inhibit urination are insufficient to keep the bladder relaxed as it fills. 
Incontinence  can  be  broadly  divided  into  two  main  types:  stress  (effort)  and  urge  incontinence.  
The term mixed incontinence denotes the concomitant appearance of stress and urge incontinence.  
Stress  urinary  incontinence  is  defined  by  the  International  Continence  Society  as  the  complaint  of 
involuntary leakage of urine on effort or exertion, or on sneezing or coughing.   
Urge  urinary  incontinence  is  the  complaint  of  involuntary  leakage  accompanied  by  or  immediately 
preceded by urgency. The overactive bladder (OAB) syndrome is defined by the symptoms of urinary 
urgency  with  or  without  urge  urinary  incontinence,  usually  associated  with  urinary  frequency  and 
nocturia. It is said that about one third of people with OAB have urinary incontinence2.  
Urge  incontinence  is  basically  a  storage  problem  in  which  the  bladder  muscle  contracts 
inappropriately. Often these contractions occur regardless of the amount of urine that is in the bladder. 
Urge  incontinence  may  result  from  neurological  injuries  (such  as  spinal  cord  injury  or  stroke), 
neurological  diseases  (such  as  multiple  sclerosis),  infection,  bladder  cancer,  bladder  stones,  bladder 
inflammation, or bladder outlet obstruction. The majority of cases are classified as idiopathic. 
Recently  available  epidemiologic  studies  in  which  OAB  was  defined  as  a  symptomatic  diagnosis 
compose  of  the  symptoms  of  frequency,  urgency,  and  urge  incontinence,  occurring  singly  or  in 
combination have found a prevalence of OAB of approximately 16% in adult men and 17% in adult 
women.  3    However,  sex-specific  prevalence  differed  substantially  by  severity  of  symptoms.  In 
women, prevalence of urge incontinence increased with age from 2.0% to 19% with a marked increase 
after 44 years of age, and in men, increased with age from 0.3% to 8.9% with a marked increase after 
64 years of age. 
1 Abrams et al. Neurourol Urodyn 2002; 21: 167-178 
2 Herbison et al. BJM 2003; 326. 
3 Staskin et al. Urology 2002 (S5A); 1-6. 
1/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
                                                      
Available treatments 
•  Medicinal products are aimed at relaxing the involuntary contraction of the bladder and include: 
anticholinergic  agents  (propantheline),  antispasmodic  medications  (oxybutynin,  tolterodine, 
flavoxate), tricyclic antidepressants (imipramine, doxepin), and beta agonist (terbutaline).  
Oxybutynin and tolterodine are antispasmodic medications and are the most commonly used. 
•  Surgery. 
•  Diet: Controlled fluid intake  
•  Bladder  training:  Management  of  urge  incontinence  usually  begins  with  a  program  of  bladder 
retraining 
•  KEGEL  exercises.  Pelvic  muscle  training  exercises  called  Kegel  exercises  are  primarily  used  to 
treat patients with stress incontinence.  
•  Biofeedback and electrical stimulation. 
EMSELEX  7.5  mg  and  15  mg  prolonged-release  tablets  contain  the  active  substance  darifenacin 
hydrobromide  or  UK-88,525-04,  (S)-2-{1-[2-(2,3-Dihydrobenzofuran-5-yl)ethyl  ]-3-pyrrolidinyl}-
2,2-diphenylacetamide hydrobromide equivalent to 7.5 mg and 15 mg of darifenacin, respectively. 
Darifenacin  is  a  muscarinic  M3  selective  receptor  antagonist,  which  is  intended  for  symptomatic 
treatment  of  urge  incontinence  and/or  increased  urinary  frequency  and  urgency  as  may  occur  in 
patients with overactive bladder syndrome 
Antimuscarinic  agents  work  on  the  principle  of  blocking  the  binding  of  acetylcholine  to  muscarinic 
receptors.  Published  data  in  human  bladder  tissue  show  that  acetylcholine-induced  contractions  are 
mediated  by  M3  receptors.  Parasympathetic  muscarinic  activity  results  in  a  coordinated  detrusor 
contraction  and  relaxation  of  the  bladder  outlet.  The  symptoms  of  OAB  have  been  attributed  to 
involuntary  contractions  of  the  bladder  detrusor  muscle  during  the  filling  phase  of  the  micturition 
cycle. This supports the rationale for using a drug that antagonizes the M3-mediated parasympathetic 
excitation of the detrusor smooth muscle contraction. 
The  recommended  posology  is  a  starting  dose  of  7.5  mg  daily  without  regard  to  meals.  For  those 
patients  requiring  greater  symptom  relief,  the  dose  may  be  increased  to  15  mg  daily  as  early  as  
2 weeks after starting therapy. 
No formal scientific advice has been given by the CPMP for this medicinal product. 
Scientific recommendation was given in May 1999 by Sweden and The Netherlands. 
A paediatric development programme has been performed but is not included in the actual application 
for this medicinal product. 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Introduction 
EMSELEX prolonged-release (PR) tablets contain darifenacin hydrobromide equivalent to 7.5 mg and 
15 mg of darifenacin free base. Considering the clinical use of the product, the choice of a modified 
release dosage form is justified on the basis of the intrinsic pharmacokinetics (PK) characteristics and 
data from a colonic intubation study. 
The tablets are round and are differentiated by colour and debossing. The 7.5 mg tablets are white and 
the 15 mg tablets are light peach. Both tablets are debossed with DF on one side and the strength on 
the other. The SPC gives details of the formulation excipients, packaging and available presentations. 
2/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
Active Substance 
Darifenacin hydrobromide is described as a white to almost white crystalline powder, slightly soluble 
in  water  (6.03  mg/ml).  Its  aqueous  solubility  has  been  found  to  be  pH  dependent,  with  a  maximum 
solubility (8,75 mg/ml) at a pH of 5,0. The molecule has a chiral centre and the S-enantiomer has been 
selected for commercial development (see pharmaceutical development ).  
Studies  on  polymorphism  have  been  carried  out  and  demonstrate  that  this  drug  substance  is 
monomorphic  and  solvated  forms  have  never  been  detected.  The  chemical  structure  is  well 
characterised by means of elemental analysis, FT-IR,  1H-NMR,  13C-NMR, mass spectrometry, X-ray 
diffractometry. These studies are considered suitable to establish the structure of this active substance. 
• 
Manufacture 
Darifenacin  hydrobromide  is  manufactured  using  a  six-step  process  ,  five  of  them  involve  chemical 
reactions and the other corresponds to a purification and recrystallisation step. Chiral starting materials 
are used where appropriate. 
• 
Specification 
Apart  from  the  assay  (  HPLC  non-chiral  ),  general  tests  (IR,  optical  rotation,  residue  on  ignition, 
heavy metals and water) are carried out according to well described in-house and PhEur methods.  
A  reasoned  discussion  about  potential  impurities,  as  indicated  in  the  ICH  Guideline  Q3A  (R), 
including  their  origin  according  to  the  manufacturing  process  described  and  the  main  degradation 
pathways,  is  also  provided.  All  the  impurities,  except  the  R-enantiomer,  are  determined  by  a  well-
described HPLC method with a gradient elution system and detection at 230 nm. The R-enantiomer is 
determined  by  an  isocratic  HPLC  method  using  a  chiral  stationary  phase.  Butan-2-one  as  residual 
solvent is checked by a well-described headspace GC method. 
Whilst not having a critical effect on bioavailability, the particle size distribution is also controlled in 
the specification, in the interests of uniformity. 
The  specifications  established  for  toxicological  batches  were  less  restrictive  than  the  current 
specifications, and the impurities have been qualified with reference to these tox. studies.  
In general, the specification of the active substance was set according to ICH Q3A(R), Q3C and Q6A 
Guidelines  on  the  base  of  15 batches  of darifenacin HBr manufactured by the  proposed commercial 
route of synthesis, and is suitable to control the quality of the active substance on a routine basis. 
• 
Stability 
Formal stability studies have been performed in accordance with the ICH Q1A (R) guideline. 
Long  term,  intermediate  condition  and  accelerated  stability  studies  have  been  carried  out  over  
3  batches  in  relevant  containers  for  marketing.  The  tests  performed  were  stability  indicating 
(appearance, assay, water, impurities and microbiological examination). The analytical methods used 
were the same as those used for routine controls. A photostability study was also carried out according 
to ICH Q1B. 
Results up to 24 months for the long term and intermediate conditions studies and up to 6 months for 
accelerated  conditions,  using  the  two  packaging  materials  proposed,  are  presented.  All  the  results 
comply with the specifications established and justify the proposed retest period. 
3/43
EMEA 2005 
 
Medicinal Product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  decision  to  select  the  S-enantiomer  of  the  active  substance  was  based  on  its  potency  and 
selectivity. Subsequently, this isomer has been used throughout the development program. In addition, 
it does not have the modest interaction with other receptors (α1 and 5-HT2), which the R-enantiomer 
has. 
The choice and development of a matrix tablet was justified as follows:  
(cid:137)  It  was  apparent  that  patients  would  require  dosing  three  times  a  day  with  an  immediate-release 
(IR)  formulation  to  maintain  therapeutic  plasma  concentrations  over  the  entire  day.  An  MR 
product improved patient compliance. 
(cid:137)  Data  from  a  colonic  intubation  study  (study  number  137-214)  indicated  that  darifenacin  was 
rapidly and well absorbed from the colon thus offering the opportunity for the drug to be delivered 
using a modified release formulation. 
(cid:137)  A  clinical  study  (study  number  137-212)  to  compare  fast,  medium  and  slow  releasing  MR 
darifenacin  hydrobromide  products  with  an  IR  capsule  demonstrated  the  benefits  to  be  gained 
from  a  MR  product.  This  study  concluded  that  a  MR  product  would  provide  increased 
bioavailability,  reduced  plasma  concentration  peak  :  trough  ratio  and  potentially  fewer  adverse 
effects than an IR product. 
The hypromellose included in the tablet core modifies the release of darifenacin hydrobromide from 
the matrix tablet formulation and hence is the critical excipient in the formulation. The choice of the 
concentration and the grade of hypromellose (2208), have been selected on the basis of a clinical study 
(number  137-212).  In  addition,  comparative  dissolution  profiles  have  demonstrated  that  ±  10% 
changes  in  hypromellose  concentration  have  no  adverse  influence  on  the  in  vitro  dissolution 
performance of the tablet. 
Also, the impact of various parameters on the dissolution performance of formulation has been studied 
(e.g. moisture content, particle size distribution, hardness).  
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process is a dry granulation method, via roller-compaction. All clinical batches of 
the MR tablet formulation have been produced by this roller compacted method.  
The manufacturing process involves the blending, screening and blending of all the excipients (except 
for magnesium stearate), lubrication with 0.5% w/w of the magnesium stearate and dry granulation (by 
roller compaction and milling). The resultant granules are blended and lubricated with the remaining 
0.5% w/w magnesium stearate prior to tabletting on a suitable tablet machine. Finally, the tablets are 
film-coated.  
• 
Product Specification 
The  specification  for  each  strength  includes  criteria  to  ensure  darifenacin  hydrobromide  MR  tablets 
are  well  defined  and  its  quality  is  appropriate  for  their  intended  commercial  use.  The  limits  are 
proposed in accord with ICH Quality Guidelines (Q3B and Q6A) and in accord with results obtained 
for  batches  manufactured  by  the  proposed  commercial  manufacturing  process  at  release  and  the 
stability programme. 
4/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Stability of the Product 
The  stability  programme  was  designed  to  cover  7.5  mg,15  mg  and  30  mg  tablets  in  HDPE  bottles, 
Aclar  UltRx  2000  and  Aclar  Rx  160  blisters,  according  to  current  ICH  guidelines.  Although  the  
30  mg  tablets  will  not  be  commercialised,  data  from  this  strength  were  provided  as  supporting 
information. 
Stress testing studies were conducted both in the solid state and in aqueous suspension. The primary 
degradation products observed on darifenacin hydrobromide MR tablets are the same as those seen in 
darifenacin hydrobromide drug substance with the following exceptions. Tablets exposed to 5% H2 O2  
and  5%  H2  O2  /1M  NaOH  resulted  in  the  formation  of  certain  known  degradation  products,  but  in 
elevated  amounts  as  expected.  These  are  detectable  by  the  methodology  employed  in  the  formal 
stability programme. 
Nineteen batches under stability study were manufactured using the proposed commercial process, at 
batch sizes between 9 % and 100% of the intended commercial batch size. Samples were stored under 
standard  ICH  accelerated,  intermediate  and  long-term  conditions  and  results  up  to  24  months  were 
reported in the first evaluation phase, supplemented by additional data up to 36 months in the second 
phase. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  active  substance  and  product  are  defined  and  characterised  in  an  acceptable  way,  typical  for  a 
modified  release  tablet.  The  product  has  been  developed  in  a  rational  way  and  there  are  no  special 
characteristics which need additional routine control to be imposed, other than those required by the 
product release specification. 
At  the  time  of  the  CHMP  opinion,  a  number  of  minor  quality  issues  having  no  impact  on  the 
benefit/risk balance were unresolved; the applicant committed to resolve these as follow up measures 
within an agreed timeframe and to submit amending variations if necessary 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacology 
The  Applicant  has  performed  and  submitted  a  number  of  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies,  covering  all 
aspects non-clinical pharmacology of darifenacin. 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics  
Acetylcholine  muscarinic  receptors  belong  to  the  superfamily  of  G-protein-coupled  receptors.  
Five subtypes of muscarinic receptors exist in rodents as well as humans and are encoded by distinct 
genes. The M1, M3 and M5 subtypes are coupled to Gq/11 and phospholipase C activation, whereas M2 
and  M4  receptors  are  coupled  to  Gi/o  and  inter  alia  adenylyl  cyclase  inhibition.  Although  several 
muscarinic receptor subtypes are expressed in the bladder, it is the M3 subtype that plays a dominant 
role in the parasympathetic stimulation of its contraction. 
• 
In vitro studies  
Darifenacin  has  been  shown  to  exhibit  M3  receptor  selectivity,  using  radioligand  binding  and 
functional studies in vitro. 
The  blockade  of  muscarinic  M3  receptors  is  the  pharmacological  basis  for  the  inhibition  of 
involuntary  bladder  contraction  and  voiding  in  OAB  patients  which  in  turn  attenuates  the  typical 
symptoms of OAB, i.e. urinary urgency with or without urge urinary incontinence, usually associated 
with  urinary  frequency  and  nocturia.    Therefore,  the  effectiveness  of  darifenacin  in  the  treatment  of 
5/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
overactive  bladder is linked to  its  inhibition of  involuntary  bladder contraction and voiding in OAB 
patients. 
• 
In vivo studies 
Results from in vivo studies in dog and rat also support the in vitro observations that darifenacin is a 
muscarinic antagonist in the bladder. 
In  anaesthetised  dogs,  darifenacin  i.v.  inhibited  the  bladder  contraction  induced  either  by  electrical 
stimulation  of  nerves  or  by  betanechol  i.v.  The  ID50  was  6.7  µg/kg,  to  be  compared  to  the  100-200 
µg/kg  oral  dose  recommended  for  patients.  Inhibition  of  salivation  required  10-fold  higher  doses, 
while no increase in heart rate was noticed up to 100 µ/kg i.v. By comparison, for atropine the ID50 
was 3.9 µg/kg for bladder contraction and 4.7 for salivation, while half-maximal effect on heart rate 
was  obtained  at  12.2  µg/kg.  In  conscious  dogs,  bladder  capacity  was  measured  by  cystometry.  
Its  reduction  by  bethanecol  s.c.  was  inhibited  by  oral  darifenacin  in  the  0.3-3  mg/kg  range.  Similar 
results  were  obtained  in  rats,  and  they  were  consistent  with  the  antagonism  of  darifenacin  on  the 
bladder.   
Darifenacin exhibits functional muscarinic antagonist effects in human and guinea pig bladder and is 
selective  for  M3  over  M1,  M2,  M4  and  M5  mediated  responses.  Darifenacin  is  also  active  at  M3 
receptors in the gastrointestinal tract, salivary gland and in the lung. Therefore, adverse effects related 
to this inhibition cannot be discarded. 
Beside  the  use  of  more  or  less  specific  antagonists  and  studies  of  subtype  localization  in  different 
organs  (RT-PCR,  immunodetection),  gene  targeting  in  mice  has  been  instrumental  in  defining  the 
physiopathological  roles  of  the  various  muscarinic  receptor  subtypes.    In  particular  M3-null  mice 
display  bladder  distension  and  impaired  contractile  response  of  the  detrusor  muscle  to  carbachol 
(Matsui  et  al,  2000),  a  finding  consistent  with  the  development  of  M3  antagonists  for  treatment  of 
bladder overactivity symptoms. 
• 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
These studies were focused on muscarinic responses in organs other than bladder where M3 receptors 
are expressed, essentially: gastrointestinal tract, salivary glands, airways and eye 
On the gastrointestinal tract, darifenacin is likely to inhibit gastrointestinal motility at the same doses 
as  it  inhibits  bladder  contractility,  because  both  effects  are  mediated  by  M3  receptors.  Thus,  in  the 
anaesthetised  dog,  the  doses  of  darifenacin  that  reduced  small  intestinal  and  colonic  were  similar  to 
those  that  inhibited  bladder  contractions.  Darifenacin  was  also  a  potent  inhibitor  of  food-stimulated 
small bowel motility when it was administered orally to conscious dogs. These effects are consistent 
with the potency of darifenacin in the isolated guinea pig ileum.  
Darifenacin was, however, comparatively weaker on other parameters of gastrointestinal function that 
were studied in the pharmacology programme. The results showed that orally administered darifenacin 
was less potent on all other parameters of gastrointestinal function that were measured – compared to 
effects on food stimulated motility.  
On the salivary gland, darifenacin reduced salivation in anaesthetised and conscious dog studies and in 
the conscious rat. However, darifenacin was less potent on the salivary gland than on the bladder in 
both in vitro and in vivo studies in dog and rat. 
Muscarinic  M3  receptors  also  mediate  cholinergic  contractile  responses  of  bronchial  smooth  muscle 
(Eglen  et  al.,  1996).  Darifenacin  exerts  a  potent  antagonism  of  these  responses  both  in  vitro  and  in 
vivo. However, this is unlikely to cause side effects in man, as antimuscarinic agents are not reported 
to cause adverse pulmonary effects in humans. There were no effects of darifenacin on respiration or 
blood gas exchange in the rat or on respiratory rate in the anaesthetised dog. 
6/43
EMEA 2005 
• 
Safety pharmacology 
Most of the safety pharmacology studies were not performed in compliance with GLP regulations as 
they pre-dated the ICH S7A Guidelines on Safety Pharmacology Studies for Human Pharmaceuticals. 
However,  some  of  the  later  studies  (IC/009/01,  IC/012/01,  CG/017/01  and  IC/001/02)  were  GLP-
compliant.  These  studies  were  conducted  in  response  to  draft  ICH  S7B  guidelines  for  assessing  the 
potential for delayed ventricular repolarization by human pharmaceuticals. 
The Applicant has developed a range of in vitro and in vivo studies concerning darifenacin effects on 
cardiac  repolarisation.  The  results  obtained  from  in  vitro  studies  are  apparently  contradictory; 
darifenacin  produced  a  concentration-related  inhibition  of  the  amplitude  of  the  hERG  potassium 
current with an IC50 of 77nM. Given these effects, it might be anticipated that darifenacin would also 
prolong  action  potential  duration  (APD)  in  the  canine  isolated  Purkinje  fibre.  However,  darifenacin 
caused a concentration-related reduction of APD. Further studies in vivo showed a slight prolongation 
of  the  QT  intervain  dogs,  which  was  observed  only  at  concentrations  almost  100-fold  above 
therapeutic  levels  (8.1%  at  25  nM).  Moreover,  this  effect  on  action  potential  duration  showed  no 
linearity,  since a  4-fold increase in exposure to  darifenacin resulted in an additional  prolongation of 
2.9%.  These  findings  suggest  that  darifenacin  has  no  effects  on  cardiac  repolarisation  at  therapeutic 
levels in non clinical trials, the cardiovascular safety margin being enough, and are supportive of the 
safe use of darifenacin from the cardiovascular point of view. 
The haemodynamic effects of darifenacin were evaluated in six studies. No effects were observed at 
therapeutic  dose  levels  suggesting  that  antagonism  of  muscarinic  M3  receptors  causes  no 
cardiovascular effect. However, at concentrations above those that will be attained in therapeutic use, 
darifenacin has the potential to prolong ventricular repolarisation (>86-fold therapeutic levels), and to 
decrease heart rate and cardiac contractility (>190-fold). 
There were no effects of darifenacin on appearance and behaviour in the rat, locomotor activity in the 
mouse, convulsions in mice induced by electroshock, strychnine or pentetrazole, motor co-ordination 
in the mouse or alcohol-, pentobarbitone- or hexobarbital-induced sleeping times in the mouse. 
In conclusion, darifenacin appears to be devoid of effects on other targets and in particular the possible 
actions on cardiac channels have been adequately addressed. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No  pharmacodynamic  drug  interaction  study  has  been  conducted  to  assess  potential  interactions  of 
darifenacin  with  possibly  co-administered  drugs.  The  lack  of  such  studies  in  animals  is  considered 
justified taking into account the battery of interaction studies conducted in humans. 
• 
Summary of salient findings 
incontinence,  usually 
Darifenacin is a selective antagonist of M3 muscarinic receptors of acetylcholine. It is proposed for the 
treatment of symptoms of overactive bladder, a syndrome defined by urinary urgency with or without 
urge  urinary 
and  nocturia.  
The  blockade  of  muscarinic  M3  receptors  is  the  pharmacological  basis  for  the  inhibition  of 
involuntary  bladder  contraction  and  voiding  in  overactive  bladder  (OAB)  patients,  which  in  turn 
attenuates the typical symptoms of OAB (urgency and incontinence). 
There is a strong rationale to use M3-selective antagonists for the treatment of symptoms of overactive 
bladder  instead  of  non-selective  antagonists:  a  similar  efficacy  but  a  better  tolerance  are  indeed 
expected  (reduction  of  some  side  effects  observed  with  non-selective  muscarinic  antagonists, 
especially tachycardia and cognitive dysfunction).  
associated  with  urinary 
frequency 
A number of pharmacological studies have been performed to elucidate the antimuscarinic effects of 
darifenacin in both in vitro and in vivo test. The in vivo studies conducted in rats and dogs show that 
darifenacin produces antimuscarinic effects on the bladder, and also in digestive tract, salivary gland 
and lungs in both species. Although adverse events related to the selective inhibition of M3 muscarinic 
receptors in those organs cannot be discarded, safety studies concerning darifenacin effects on cardiac 
repolarization do not raise any concern and supports its use in humans, as well as additional studies 
targeting others systems and organs. 
7/43
EMEA 2005 
 
Pharmacokinetics 
The nonclinical pharmacokinetic program for darifenacin comprised detailed single dose studies in all  
toxicology  species  to  define  the  basic  pharmacokinetic  parameters  and  absolute  oral  bioavailability. 
This  program  was  supplemented  by  sampling  during  repeat-dose  toxicology  studies  to  confirm  the  
pharmacokinetics of darifenacin under the actual conditions of safety evaluation. Tissue distribution, 
metabolism and excretion studies in animal species were also conducted. In vitro metabolism studies 
were  used  to  support  the  in  vivo  studies,  to  characterise  the  enzymes  involved  in  the  metabolism  of 
darifenacin and to determine the potential for drug-drug interactions. 
Pharmacokinetic  studies  were  performed  in  mouse,  rat,  rabbit  and  dog.  The  concentration  of 
darifenacin and its metabolites was determined by validated methods: HPLC with UV or fluorescence 
detection,  HPLC-mass  spectrometry  and  TFC  (turbulent  flow  chromatography)-mass  spectrometry. 
[14C]-darifenacin was used in some studies: its radiochemical purity was greater than 95%.  
• 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
According to the absorption studies conducted, darifenacin is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal 
tract  in  animals  and  humans  and  at  low  doses  exhibits  extensive  first-pass  extraction  leading  to 
incomplete oral bioavailability mainly in humans. However, in the mouse and the dog as the dose is 
increased,  the  hepatic  extraction  of  the  compound  becomes  saturated  leading  to  an  increase  in  the 
apparent oral bioavailability. Similarly, on multiple administrations to the dog there is a reduction in 
the hepatic clearance of darifenacin (and hence increased apparent bioavailability). 
• 
Distribution 
The  plasma  protein  binding  in  animal  species  and  human  was  determined  in  vitro  by  equilibrium 
dialysis at concentrations, which were considered relevant to the concentrations observed in the clinic. 
Darifenacin was highly bound in the plasma of mouse, rat, dog and human. In rabbit plasma, the free 
fraction of darifenacin was 0.24. 
Darifenacin has been shown to bind predominantly to human α-1-acid glycoprotein in plasma, with a 
component  of  binding  to  serum  albumin.  According  to  tissue  distribution  studies  in  pigmented  rats, 
darifenacin distributes extensively into tissues despite its high plasma protein binding. Such extensive 
distribution into tissues is consistent with the lipophilic and basic nature of darifenacin. 
Darifenacin presents affinity to melanin, since foci of radioactivity were associated with retina, skin 
and substantia nigra. This is a common observation for many lipophilic bases, which reversibly bind to 
tissues containing melanin, and no toxicity has been reported related to this for other substances. 
• 
Metabolism  
Darifenacin  is  extensively  metabolized.  Studies  have  been  undertaken  in  vivo  to  identify  excreted 
metabolites and the most significant circulating metabolites in human and toxicology species. In vitro 
studies have been used to identify the cytochrome P450 enzymes involved in darifenacin metabolism, 
and to examine the potential for drug interactions. 
• 
In vivo studies 
The  human  metabolism  of  darifenacin  proceeded  by  three  primary  routes.  Route  A  was 
monohydroxylation in either the dihydrobenzofuran ring to produce UK-148,993 (12% of the dose) or 
in the phenyl ring (5% of the dose). Route B was dihydrobenzofuran ring opening to produce the diol 
UK-156,981  (8%  of  the  dose)  or  the  zwitterion  UK-222,247  (21%  of  the  dose).  Route  C  was  N-
dealkylation  to  produce  UK-73,689  (4%  of  the  dose).  The latter was further metabolised by glycine 
conjugation  to  UK-297,101  (4%  of  the  dose).  Further  metabolism  of  UK-148,993  (N-dealkylation) 
produced a major acidic metabolite UK-346,036 (20% of the dose). 
8/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N-dealkylation  of  darifenacin  (route  C)  splits  the  molecule  into  two  fragments.  UK-73,689  contains 
the  radiolabelled  centre.  The  non-radiolabelled  portion,  UK-88,862,  was  determined  in  urine  by  a 
specific assay. The proportion of the dose excreted in human urine as UK-88,862 was 24% in molar 
terms. 
The metabolism of darifenacin in toxicology species was qualitatively similar to that in humans with 
all three routes apparent. All the metabolites identified in human excreta were present in the excreta of 
the mouse, the rat and the dog. Thus, the animals used in toxicity testing for darifenacin were exposed 
to the same metabolites as humans. 
Analysis  of  human  plasma  identified  that  the  main  circulating  components  following  darifenacin 
administration  are  UK-73,689,  UK-88,862,  UK-148,993  and  unchanged  darifenacin.  These 
components were also identified in animal plasma following darifenacin administration. 
• 
In vitro studies  
In  hepatic  microsomal  incubations,  darifenacin  was rapidly  metabolised  with  disappearance  half-life 
values of 6, 15 and 6 minutes in rat, dog and human respectively. This is consistent with the in vivo 
studies, where metabolism has been shown to be the predominant route of clearance for darifenacin. 
The only metabolites  of darifenacin that were formed in human liver microsomes were UK-148,993 
and UK-88,862. Further studies showed that the formation of UK-148,993 in human liver microsomes 
was  mediated  by  high  and  low  affinity  components.  Inhibition  studies  showed  that  the  high  affinity 
component comprised of CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 whereas the low affinity component was exclusively 
CYP3A4.  Similar  studies  on  the  metabolism  of  darifenacin  to  UK-88,862  showed  that  this  route  of 
metabolism is mediated by CYP3A4 only. 
Thus, both CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 mediate a large proportion of the human metabolism of darifenacin. 
As a consequence, the pharmacokinetics of darifenacin are likely to be altered by co-administration of 
drugs  that  inhibit  either  CYP3A4  or  CYP2D6.  The  likely  outcome  is  an  increased  darifenacin 
exposure. A number of clinical interaction studies have been performed to investigate this possibility. 
Other  in  vitro  studies  have  shown  that  darifenacin  has  the  potential  to  inhibit  both  CYP2D6  and 
CYP3A4, and UK-148,993 may also inhibit CYP2D6. 
• 
Excretion 
The excretion of [14C]-darifenacin has been investigated in the toxicology species at doses within the 
range  used  in  safety  evaluation,  and  also  in  male  human  volunteers.  Overall,  there  were  no  major 
differences  in  the  qualitative  pattern  of  excretion  between  species,  genders  and  routes  of 
administration. 
In the rat, the rabbit and the dog, the predominant route of excretion was in the faeces. This probably 
reflects  extensive  biliary  elimination  of  darifenacin  and  its  metabolites.  This  was  confirmed  in  a 
separate study in the isolated perfused rat liver where 41% of a dose of [14C]-darifenacin was excreted 
in the bile. In mouse and human, excretion of radioactivity was balanced between urine and faeces. 
[14C]-darifenacin  and  UK-148,993  were  secreted  in  rat  milk  where  concentrations  were  similar  to 
those in plasma. This is likely to be the case in humans. 
• 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
The  effect  of  darifenacin  and  its  circulating  metabolites  on  cytochrome  P450  activity  has  been 
investigated  in  vitro  using  a  series  of  substrates.  According  to  the  results  darifenacin  is  a  potent 
inhibitor of CYP2D6-mediated metabolism in vitro. UK-148,993 also inhibited CYP2D6 metabolism 
but was 10-fold weaker than darifenacin. UK-88,862 did not inhibit CYP2D6. 
9/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Darifenacin also inhibited CYP3A4 and UK-148,993 was found to be a weak inhibitor of CYP3A4. 
Neither UK-88,862 nor UK-73,689 inhibited CYP3A4 metabolism in vitro. 
Thus the in vitro data shows that interactions can be expected with the co-administration of CYP3A4 
and CYP2D6 substrates/inhibitors with darifenacin. A program of interaction studies has been pursued 
in the clinical part. 
• 
Summary of pharmacokinetic parameters  
The Applicant has performed a classical program of pharmacokinetic studies. Studies were performed 
in  mouse,  rat,  rabbit  and  dog.  Animal  species  used  in  the  studies  were  sufficiently  exposed  to 
darifenacin and its metabolites, in relation to highest exposure expected in clinical situation. 
Darifenacin shows good oral absorption but extensive first-pass effect, extensive distribution without 
accumulation, limited distribution in brain, clearance by hepatic metabolism involving CYP3A4 and 
CYP2D6. In vitro studies have shown that darifenacin has the potential to inhibit both CYP2D6 and 
CYP3A4,  and  UK-148,993  may  also  inhibit  CYP2D6.  In  addition,  in  vitro  studies  show  that 
interactions  could  be  observed  upon  co-administration  of  CYP3A4  substrates  or  inhibitors. 
Consequently a comprehensive series of clinical drug interaction studies have been performed, since 
drug interactions are expected. 
Toxicology 
A complete nonclinical toxicology evaluation programme was carried out with darifenacin in several 
animal  species.  The  compound  was  administered  as  the  hydrobromide  salt  in  all  studies  apart  from 
range-finding studies (repeat-dose, non-pivotal studies) in rats and dogs where the base was used and 
one  of  the  bacterial  mutagenicity  assays  where  the  tartrate  salt  was  used.  Additional  studies  were 
performed with UK-73,689 to comply with the Worker Safety Testing (WST) and Notification of New 
Substances  (NONS),  since  this  compound  is  a  starting  material  and  metabolite  of  darifenacin  in  all 
animal species tested and man. The metabolism of darifenacin in toxicology species was qualitatively 
similar to that in humans with all three routes apparent. Thus, the animals used in toxicity testing for 
darifenacin were exposed to the same metabolites as humans.  
• 
Single dose toxicity 
The Applicant has conducted a number of studies in mice and rats concerning the single-dose toxicity 
of darifenacin and its metabolite UK-73,689.  
The minimal lethal dose of darifenacin was about 100mg/kg in mice and between 100 and 200mg/kg 
in  rats  following  single  oral  administration.  Similar  clinical  signs  (tremors,  ataxia,  depression, 
dyspnoea, mydriasis and partially closed eyes) were observed in both species, and disappeared within 
24 hours, with the exception of mydriasis. The lethal doses were 333-and 667-fold higher in mice and 
rats  respectively,  than  the  maximum  recommended  human  dosage.  The  non-lethal  doses  in  mice 
(62.5mg/kg) and rats (100mg/kg) were associated with only minor clinical signs. 
Following  single  intraperitoneal  administration,  the  minimal  lethal  dose  was  between  50  and 
100mg/kg in mice and about 50mg/kg in rats. Clinical signs were similar to those observed by the oral 
route.  These  doses  were  333  and  167-fold  higher  in  mice  and  rats  respectively,  than  the  maximum 
recommended human dosage. 
No  relevant  effects  were  observed  in  rats  following  oral  administration  of  UK-73,689  up  to 
2000mg/kg 
• 
Repeat dose toxicity  
The  Applicant  has  submitted  a  number  of  repeat-dose  studies,  carried  out  over  a  dose  range  of  
0.5-100mg/kg in rats and dogs. Most clinical signs observed in treated animals were consistent with 
the pharmacological activity of the compound. 
10/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse  effects  observed  in  rats  included  mydriasis  and  ptosis  from  3mg/kg,  hypersecretion  of  the 
Harderian  gland  from  10mg/kg,  and  difficulties  introducing  the  gavage  catheters  when  dosing  from 
30mg/kg.  Since  the  Harderian  gland  is  absent  in  humans,  this  finding  was  not  considered  clinically 
relevant. Bacterial overgrowth of the non-glandular stomach was considered to be linked to the non-
selective  antimuscarinic  effects  on  gastric  emptying,  gastrointestinal  motility  and/or  drying  of  the 
mucous membranes. Mortality showed a low incidence (3/5 at 100mg/kg, 2/20 at 50mg/kg and 5/40 at 
30mg/kg),  and  is  considered  to  be  associated  with  the  pharmacological  activity  of  the  compound. 
There was a reduction in body weight and food consumption in both sexes, and an increase in water 
consumption  from  10mg/kg  in  males  and  from  30mg/kg  in  females,  probably to  compensate for the 
drying of the mucous membranes and to aid chewing of the food. The increase in relative liver weights 
were not accompanied by any histopathologic changes, and are considered an adaptive response of the 
liver to enzyme induction. The Applicant considers the effects observed on cardiac parameters such as 
bradycardia and increase in PR, QRS and RT intervals as a consequence of the poor condition of the 
animals,  including  hypothermia.  Administration  of  UK-73,689  produced  effects  only  at  1000 
mg/kg/day, and therefore is not considered a toxicological concern.      
In  repeat-dose  studies  in  dogs  mild  clinical  signs  occurred  from  1mg/kg  (dry  mouth,  mydriasis, 
conjunctival redness, regurgitation and emesis), from 3mg/kg (inhibition of the pupillary reflex), or at 
16mg/kg (difficulty in swallowing, transient absence of faeces). Increases in relative liver weight were 
noted  from  1mg/kg.  Oral  administration  for  one  year  produced  no  evidence  of  new  toxicological 
findings, with the addition of increased heart rate at 6mg/kg. Corneal changes (neovascularisation and 
opacities etc.) were limited to the high dose, and have been described previously in dogs treated with 
anticholinergic or antispasmodic agents (Gopinath et al.,1987; Majeed et al.,1983). 
Overall,  sporadic  mortality  occurred  from  doses  of  30mg/kg  in  rats  and  from  10mg/kg  in  dogs, 
representing  darifenacin  plasma  exposures  at  least  43  and  197-fold  greater  than  those  seen  at  the 
maximum  recommended  human  dosage,  and  has  been  ascribed  to  the  exaggerated  pharmacology  of 
the compound. Darifenacin has been shown to inhibit salivation in rats and dogs and to produce dry 
mouth in dogs. This effect on salivation, together with the decrease of motility of the upper digestive 
tract  hinders  feeding  and  swallowing  and  facilitates  the  entry  of  food  into  the  respiratory  airways, 
leading to asphyxia. The exaggerated effect on salivation and gastric motility in these studies leading 
to sporadic mortality is not considered a risk to humans as it occurs at plasma concentrations which 
are many times higher than seen in humans.  
The  Applicant  has  conducted  a  number  of  toxicokinetic  studies,  where  the  plasma  exposure  to 
darifenacin at the maximum therapeutic dose (15mg, 0.3mg/kg) has been compared to reference doses 
in  animal  studies.  Overall,  in  toxicity  studies  at  doses  of  darifenacin  which  caused  no  toxicological 
consequences  (NOAEL),  animals  were  exposed  to  total  amounts  of  darifenacin  and  its  metabolites 
which exceeded several fold those encountered at the highest clinical dose of darifenacin (dose range 
of  1.25-100mg/kg).  The  exposure  multiples  for  darifenacin  indicate  an  acceptable  multiple  between 
Cmax and AUC for the drug in humans and the equivalent values associated with no adverse effects in 
mouse, rat and dog. 
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo  
Darifenacin has been evaluated in in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity tests in two salt forms, the tartrate 
and  the  hydrobromide.  Darifenacin  does  not  display  mutagenic  activity  in  any  in  vitro  test  system 
when tested up to cytotoxic concentrations in either the absence or presence of exogenous metabolic 
activation,  and  does  not  cause  chromosomal  aberrations  in  vivo.  Additionally,  in  the  in  vivo  assay 
carried out, no  evidence of clastogenicity was seen.  
The  mutagenic  potential  of  UK-85,069,  an  intermediate  of  synthesis  of  darifenacin  and  UK-73,689 
were  tested  according  to  the  Worker  Safety  Testing  regulations.  Both  compounds  were  neither 
mutagenic nor clastogenic in vitro. 
• 
Carcinogenicity  
Range-finding and long-term studies have been conducted by the Applicant to study the carcinogenic 
profile  of  darifenancin  in  mice  and  rats.  Darifenacin  had  no  effects  on  the  survival  of  the  animals.  
The  decreased  body  weight  validates  the  high  dose  selection.  Furthermore  these  high  doses  are 
associated  with  an  exposure  higher  than  that  in  human  subjects  receiving  the  highest  recommended 
11/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
dose (see toxicokinetics). Some findings (mydriasis and increased secretion of Harderian gland) have 
been noticed consistently in repeat-dose studiesThe only findings in terms of carcinogenicity were the 
increased incidence of adrenocortical adenomas in high dose female rats and of haemangiosarcomas in 
high dose male rats. These findings were however not considered to be related to treatment.  
•  Reproductive and developmental studies 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity studies carried out with darifenacin 
Study type 
Preliminary reproduction study 
Fertility 
Maternal toxicity 
Teratology 
Maternal toxicity 
Teratology 
Peri & postnatal development 
Pre & postnatal study 
Specie 
Rat 
Rat 
Rat 
Rat 
Rabbit 
Rabbit 
Rat 
Rat 
Dose 
3, 10, 50 
3, 10, 50 
10, 30, 50 
3, 10, 50 
10, 30, 50 
3, 10, 30 
3, 10, 50 
3, 10, 50 
The  effects  of  darifenacin  on  fertility  have  been  evaluated  in  rats.  Darifenacin  has  no  effect  on 
copulation  rate,  and  effects  on  pregnancy  rate  observed  were mild and only  appeared  at high doses. 
Darifenacin at 50mg/kg was toxic to adult male and female rats, and thereby the post-implantation loss 
is  a  consequence  of  maternal  toxicity.  In  conclusion,  darifenacin  had  no  effect  on  male  or  female 
fertility, or any effect in the reproductive organs of either sex. 
Foetotoxicity  studies  carried  out  in  rats  demonstrated  maternal  toxicity  (reduced  body  weight)  and 
slight  foetotoxicity  at  50mg/kg  (reduced  foetal  weights  and  delays  in  ossification).  In  the  rabbit, 
darifenacin  produced  maternal  toxicity  (reduced  body  weight  and  abortions)  and  embryo-  and 
foetotoxicity  at  30mg/kg  (increased  post-implantation  loss  and  decreased  number  of  viable  foetuses 
per  litter).  Adverse  effects  on  embryos  and  foetuses  were  seen  at  darifenacin  doses  which  induced  
maternal toxicity and, in both species, these effects occurred at maternal free plasma exposures that are 
28-59  times  those  obtained  in  humans  at  the  maximum  recommended  human  dosage.  Therefore, 
darifenancin was not considered teratogenic in rats or rabbits. 
Metabolism data have demonstrated that darifenacin is excreted in milk; however, darifenacin was not 
detected  in  the  plasma  of  pups.  Perinatal  and  postnatal  toxicity  (delays  in  physical  development  of 
pups),  together  with  signs  of  maternal  toxicity,  were  observed  at  50mg/kg,  that  were  above  the 
maximum recommended human dosage (87 times the human free AUC). In peri and post natal studies 
in  rats,  dystocia,  increased  foetal  deaths  in  utero,  and  toxicity  to  post  natal  development  (pup  body 
weight and development land marks) were observed at systemic exposure levels up to 11 times higher 
than the expected clinical exposure. Furthermore, the adverse effects of the compound on the length of 
gestation, littering and lactation were not observed in a previous fertility study. Therefore, darifenacin 
would not pose a toxicological risk on prenatal and postnatal development at the recommended human 
dosage.  However,  the  CHMP  considered  that,  darifenacin  should  not  be  recommended  during 
pregnancy, as stated in the SPC. 
• 
Local tolerance  
Darifenacin and its metabolite UK-73,689 produced evidence of skin sensitisation in the rat and rabbit 
species;  furthermore,  darifenacin  and  UK-73,689  produced  eye  irritation  in  the  rabbit.  Although, 
darifenacin  would  pose  a  dermotoxicity  risk  it  is  not  expected  any  concern  due  to  the  oral  route 
intended to be used in humans. 
12/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Other toxicity studies 
Darifenacin did not induce an active systemic anaphylaxis reaction or a passive cutaneous anaphylaxis 
reaction in guinea pigs. Therefore, darifenacin has no antigenic potential under the conditions of this 
study. 
• 
Summary of salient findings 
The  observed  toxicity  of  darifenacin  in  repeat-dose  studies  is  at  least  in  part  the  consequence  of  its 
pharmacological activity on M3 receptors: in particular decreased food intake, decreased body weight 
and  some  deaths  could  be  explained  by  decreased  salivation  that  makes  feeding  and  swallowing 
difficult  and  facilitates  the  entry  of  food  in  the  respiratory  airways.  Darifenacin  had  no  effect  on 
fertility  and  no  teratogenic  action.  In  peri  and  post  natal  studies  in  rats,  dystocia,  increased  foetal 
deaths in utero, and toxicity to post natal development (pup body weight and development land marks) 
were observed at systemic exposure levels up to 11 times higher than the expected clinical exposure. 
However,  the  CHMP  considered  that  darifenacin  should  not  be  recommended  during  pregnancy,  as 
stated in the SPC. 
Darifenacin was neither mutagenic nor clastogenic and had no carcinogenic activity. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
As a result of consumer use, darifenacin is mainly excreted as metabolites mainly in urine (58%) and 
feces.  Only  3%  of  the  dose  is  excreted  as  unchanged  darifenacin,  2%  in  urine  and  1%  in  feces. 
Excretions are collected with other wastes in public waste water systems and are processed by sewage 
treatment plants. Darifenacin and its metabolites residing in the hydraulics of sewage treatment plants 
are  directly  released  into  the  external  aquatic  environment,  while  that  bound  to  the  wastewater 
biomass  may  be  indirectly  released  to  the  soil  environment  as  a  result  of  wasting  sludge.  Once 
released  into  the  aquatic  environment,  effluent  concentrations  of  darifenacin  and  its  metabolites  are 
further  diluted  (approximately  1:10)  by  the  receiving  waters.  Soil  concentrations  of  darifenacin 
resulting  from  sludge  amendments  to  soil  are  negligible,  such  as  release  to  the  atmospheric 
compartment. No unusual toxicity was observed for those species tested as representative of the water 
and soil compartments.  
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The extent and scope of the documentation provided in this application are appropriate to support the 
non-clinical pharmacology profile of darifenacin 
Darifenacin  is  a  selective  antagonist  of  M3  muscarinic  receptors  of  acetylcholine.  Darifenacin  is 
intended  for  the  treatment  of  symptoms  of  overactive  bladder,  defined  by  urinary  urgency  with  or 
without urge urinary incontinence, usually associated with urinary frequency and nocturia.  
The rational for the use M3 selective antagonists is based on expected better tolerance while achieving 
similar efficacy. 
Various  pharmacological  studies  demonstrate  the  antimuscarinic  effect  of  the  compound  in  the 
bladder, and explore other effects related to the inhibition of M3 muscarinic receptors in other organs. 
Pharmacokinetics studies were performed in mouse, rat, rabbit and dog. The animals were exposed to 
darifenacin, in relation to the highest exposure expected in the clinical situation. Darifenacin showed 
extensive  absorption  by  oral  route,  and  presented  an  important  first-pass  effect.  It  is  extensively 
distributed.  Metabolism  occurs  namely  in  the  liver,  involving  CYP3A4  and  CYP2D6,  to  which 
darifenacin and its metabolites have the potential to inhibit. A number of potential clinical interactions 
are derived from this fact, in it has been further addressed in the clinical part. 
In the rat, the rabbit and the dog, the predominant route of excretion was in the faeces, while in mouse 
and human, excretion of radioactivity was balanced between urine and faeces. 
13/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  complete  toxicology  programme  was  performed,  and  did  not  raise  special  concern,  although 
darifenacin is not recommended during pregnancy. The observed toxicity is in part consequence of its 
pharmacological activity on M3 receptors. Adequate genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies did not 
anticipate any potential hazard for the use of darifenacion in humans. 
A  Phase  I  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  has  been  carried  out  to  assess  the  environmental  risk  of 
darifenacin. The results of this study show that there are no potential risks to the environment from the 
use or storage of darifenacin. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
All but four clinical studies from all phases of development were conducted according to the ICH GCP 
guidelines.  The  four  exceptions  were  early  Japanese  Phase  1  studies  (JP-95-501,  JP-95-502,  JP-05-
503, JP-95-504), which were conducted before 1997 according to Japanese GCP guidelines in force at 
that  time.  All  studies  have  been  subject  to  regular  monitoring  by  Pfizer  or  Contract  Research 
Organizations.  
All  studies  were  performed  in  accordance  with  the  World  Medical  Association’s  Declaration  of 
Helsinki and its amendments. 
A clinical pharmacology program is presented consisting of 48 phase I studies conducted in healthy 
volunteers  in  the  US  or  Europe  (Western  studies)  and  5  phase  I  studies  conducted  in  Japan.  
The  objective  was  to  determine  the  pharmacokinetics  (PK)  of  darifenacin  in  humans,  to  assess  the 
effects of drug dosing on pharmacodynamic (PD) parameters and to explore the influence of intrinsic 
and extrinsic factors on darifenacin PK and PD.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Seven clinical studies explored the absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion of darifenacin 
or  the  intrinsic  pharmacokinetic  properties  of  the  drug  administered  as  a  solution  via  intravenous 
(iv)or oral routes (Studies 137-201, 137-202,137-203,137-209,137-214,137-219 and 137-221).One in 
vitro  study  was  performed  to  investigate  the  membrane  permeability  of  darifenacin  (DM-03-137-
26)while  four  studies  were  performed  to  characterize  the  pathways  by  which  darifenacin  is 
metabolized  (DM-99-137-01,DM-99-137-01A, DM-99-137-01B  and DM-00-137-01D).The extent  to 
which  darifenacin  and  its  metabolites  bind  to  protein  was  investigated  in  five  equilibrium  dialysis 
studies (DM-99-137-08,DM-99-137-08A,DM-01-137-08B,DM-01-137-08C and DM-01-137-01F). 
Concentrations  of  darifenacin  and  the  principal  metabolite  UK-148,993  in  human  plasma  and  urine 
were  measured  using  solid-phase  extraction  (SPE)  followed  by  reversed  phase  high-pressure  liquid 
chromato-graphy (HPLC). Validation reports support each bioanalytical method.  
A  variety  of  SPE  cartridges  and  reversed  phase  HPLC  columns  were  used  and  modifications  were 
made  to  the  LC/MS/MS  detection  to  improve  assay  sensitivity  but  the  method  conditions  remained 
essentially the same. A further method using organic solvant protein precipitation, automated on line 
SPE column switching and reversed phase HPLC with fluorescence detection was used by a separate 
laboratory.  
The methods used are very sensitive with lower limits of quantification of 0.025 ng/ml for darifenacin 
and 0.05 ng/ml for UK-148,993, and slightly higher with the fluorescence detection. 
Pharmacokinetic parameters were assessed and defined according to standard criteria. 
• 
Absorption – Bioavailability 
Darifenacin  is  a  lipophilic  and  basic  molecule  that  appears  to  be  completely  absorbed  from  the 
gastrointestinal tract. Following the administration of an oral solution, darifenacin appeared rapidly in 
the  peripheral  circulation  (Tmax:  1h)  with  an  elimination  half-life  of  around  0.3h.  For  this  reason  a 
14/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
controlled  release  formulation  was  developed.  Pooled  data  from  studies  using  repeated  controlled 
release  (CR)  tablet  dosing  indicate  that  Cmax  from  7.5mg  and  15mg  CR  tablets  at  steady  state  is 
achieved approximately 7h after dosing.  
The oral bioavailability of darifenacin from 7.5 mg and 15 mg CR tablets was estimated to be 15.4% 
and  18.6%  respectively  in  CYP2D6  extensive  metabolisers  (EM)  subjects  at  steady  state.  The  most 
likely  explanation  for  incomplete  oral  bioavailability is extensive  first pass metabolism  by CYP3A4 
and CYP2D6 in the liver and CYP3A4 in the gut wall. The hepatic extraction ratio is high: EH = 0.73.  
Inter- and intra- subject variability in oral bioavailability of darifenacin is significant and caused by a 
combination of factors, including CYP2D6 genotype,  co-administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors, race, 
gender, age, and hepatic function.  
Oral bioavailability of darifenacin is both time-and dose-dependent. Darifenacin exposure from 15mg 
CR tablets at steady state was 86% higher than after a single dose and doubling of the CR tablet dose 
increased steady state exposure by approximately 150% (dose proportionality constant 1.33, 95% CI 
1.21,1.45). 
Co-administration of food with a single 15mg or 30mg CR tablet produced a higher peak darifenacin 
concentration  (Cmax  ratio  fed/fasted  =1.22).  However,  the  total  drug  exposure  (AUC)  remained 
unchanged. Once darifenacin plasma concentrations had reached steady state, ingestion of food had no 
effect on the pharmacokinetics of darifenacin. Therefore, specific dosing recommendations on the use 
of darifenacin CR in relation to meals are not required. 
• 
Bioequivalence 
Bioequivalence between the CR tablet formulation intended for commercial production and the other 
18-h release CR tablet formulations used during clinical development of darifenacin was assessed in 
five studies. Bioequivalence was established between the proposed commercial formulations of 7.5mg, 
15mg and 30mg tablet strengths and the corresponding clinical research tablets.  
• 
Distribution 
Darifenacin  has  a  volume  of  distribution  well  in  excess  of  total  body  water.  The  estimated  Vss  of 
darifenacin  is  163  L.  This  is  consistent  with  extensive  distribution  of  the  drug  into  body  tissues, 
although there is limited penetration into brain.  
The  mean  plasma  protein  binding  for  darifenacin  is  98%,  primarily  to  α1-acid  glycoprotein.  
The  plasma  protein  binding  is  reduced  to  97%  in  mild  hepatic  impairment  (Child-Pugh  A)  and  to 
95.5%  in  moderate  hepatic  impairment  (Child-Pugh  B).  The  binding  is  not  reduced  by  renal 
impairment.  
• 
Elimination 
into 
three  main  metabolic 
Darifenacin is extensively metabolised with 3% of unchanged drug excreted in either urine or faeces 
following oral dosing. Metabolism is mediated by cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. 
The 
the  dihydrobenzofuran, 
routes  are  monohydroxylation 
dihydrobenzofuran ring opening, and N-dealkylation of the pyrrolidin nitrogen.  
As  darifenacin  has  multiple  route  of  metabolism,  the  impact  of  a  loss  of  one  of  the  pathways  is 
lessened by ongoing metabolic activity through the other pathways.  
The  major  circulating  metabolites  identified  were  UK-73,689  (N-dealkylation)  and  UK-148,993 
(hydroxylation).  The  only  metabolite  of  darifenacin  that  has shown pharmacological activity is UK-
148,993  which  has  shown  a  similar  antimuscarinic  M3-Receptor  binding  selectivity,  although  at  a  
3-  to  10-fold  lower  potency  than  darifenacin.  The  relative  in  vivo  potency  of  the  metabolite  UK-
148,993  compared  to  darifenacin  was  estimated  by  population  pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic 
modelling of the reduction in salivary flow. UK-148,993 makes a negligible contribution to changes in 
salivary  flow,  based  on  the  absence  of  correlation  between  salivary  flow  and  plasma  metabolite 
concentrations. 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  UK-148,993  follow  the  pharmacokinetics  of  darifenacin.  The  steady  state 
UK-148,993  plasma  concentration  versus  time  profile  from  CR  tablet  dosing  is  similar  to  that  of 
darifenacin and UK-148,993 PK parameters show the same trends as darifenacin PK parameters. 
15/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  Phase  1  studies,  steady  state  total  exposure  was  approximately  164%  higher  in  poor  metaboliser 
(PM)  subjects  compared  with  extensive  metaboliser  (EM)  following  administration  of  7.5mg  CR 
tablets,  and  99%  higher  following  15mg  od  dosing.  Estimates  of  darifenacin  exposure  based  on 
population analysis of Phase 3 data indicated that steady state AUC was 66% higher among PMs than 
EMs  at  each  dose.  However,  there  is  considerable  overlap  between  the  ranges  of  exposures  seen  in 
these two populations. Adequate information on this issue has been included in the SPC.  
Darifenacin and its metabolites are eliminated from the body via the urine and faeces; about 60% of 
the drug dose was excreted in the urine and 40% in the faeces. Most of a dose is excreted within 48h 
of  dosing.  The  metabolites  present 
the  urine  are  primarily  from  hydroxylation  and 
dihydrobenzofuran  ring  opening.  Very little darifenacin was directly excreted via either the urine or 
faeces (3%).  
in 
• 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Darifenacin  pharmacokinetics  from  PR  tablets  is  dose-dependent.  Bioavailability  increases  with 
increasing dose and was higher at steady state than from single dose data. 
Doubling the darifenacin dose resulted in a 150% increase in exposure. This dose-dependency could 
be due to increasing saturation of CYP3A4-mediated gut wall metabolism at higher doses, combined 
with  a  dose-dependent  reduction  in  the  contribution  of  CYP2D6  metabolism  to  darifenacin  oral 
clearance at steady state. 
• 
Special populations 
Among patients with OAB  in Phase III  studies, the PK of  darifenacin was similar  to that in healthy 
volunteers in Phase I studies. 
Renal  impairment  has  no  clinically  relevant  effect  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  darifenacin.  No 
relationship between darifenacin clearance and renal function was established. Plasma protein binding 
of darifenacin was also not reduced in subjects with renal impairment. 
Mild  hepatic  impairment  does  not  alter  darifenacin  PK  in  a  clinically  relevant  manner.  However, 
moderate  hepatic  impairment  has  an  effect  on  darifenacin  PK.  Both  clearance  and  protein  binding 
were  lower  among  subjects  with  moderate  hepatic  impairment.  Steady-state  unbound  darifenacin 
exposure was estimated to be 300-370 % higher in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment than in 
subjects with normal hepatic function. In accordance with this, the SPC recommends that in patients 
with  moderate  hepatic  impairment  (i.e.  Child  Pugh  B),  patients  should  only  be  treated  if the benefit 
outweighs  the  risk,  and  that  the  patients  should  be  restricted  to  7.5  mg  daily.  Darifenacin  is 
contraindicated for patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh C). 
Darifenacin exposure is lower in men than in women. Darifenacin CL/F was 30% higher and steady-
state AUC 23 % lower among males than females. This variation is not sufficient to demand a change 
in dose according to gender.  
Because  the  number  of  non-white  subjects  in  Western  studies  was  low,  it  was  not  possible  to 
determine the influence of ethnic background on darifenacin pharmacokinetics. Apart from differences 
in  exposure  (steady-state  AUC  was  34%  lower  among  Japanese  subjects  compared  with  Western 
subjects), the pharmacokinetic behaviour of darifenacin was broadly similar in Japanese and Western 
subjects. 
Children have not been studied. Darifenacin cannot be recommended for use in these patients. 
• 
Interaction studies 
Since  darifenacin  is  metabolised  via  CYP3A4  and  CYP2D6  enzyme  pathways,  the  PK  is  affected 
when CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 expression or activity are altered. A series of in vitro and in vivo drug 
interaction  studies  have  been  performed 
the  consequences  of  concomitant 
administrations  of  CYP3A4  and  CYP2D6  inhibitors  on  darifenacin  exposure.  The  impact  of 
cytochrome P450 induction on darifenacin PK has also been explored. Conversely, a series of in vitro 
and  in  vivo  drug  interaction  studies  have  been  performed  to  investigate  the  impact  of  darifenacin 
administration on the PK of other drugs. 
The  choice  of  interacting  drugs  was  based  on  US  and    European  guidelines  on  the  investigation  of 
drug interactions. 
investigate 
to 
16/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
In vitro 
Darifenacin  metabolism  in  vitro  was  inhibited  by  CYP2D6  and  CYP3A4  inhibitors  in  a  manner 
consistent with the known potency of each compound against other substrates. Concomitant use of a 
potent CYP2D6 inhibitor with darifenacin causes an increase in steady-state darifenacin exposure in 
EM subjects.  
In  vitro  studies  suggest  that  CYP3A4  is  the  primary  route  of  metabolism  in  vitro.  The  effects  of  a 
variety of CYP3A4 inhibitors on the metabolism of darifenacin were initially examined in vitro using 
human microsomes. Extrapolation of these data to a clinical situation is not straighforward because the 
relative contribution of the CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 pathways to darifenacin metabolism in vivo varies 
with time and dose. 
• 
In vivo 
CYP3A4 inhibitors  
Co-administration  of  ketoconazole  with  darifenacin  caused  the  largest  increase  in  steady-state 
darifenacin exposure: about 10-fold with the 15- and 30-mg doses, and 5-fold with the 7.5-mg dose. 
The  co-administration  with  potent  CYP3A4  inhibitors  such  as  protease  inhibitors,  ketoconazole  and 
itraconazole  is  contraindicated,  as  quoted  in  the  SPC.  Potent  P-glycoprotein  inhibitors  such  as 
cyclosporine and verapamil should also be avoided. Co-administration of darifenacin 7.5 mg with the 
potent CYP3A4 inhibitor ketoconazole 400 mg resulted in a 5-fold increase in steady state darifenacin 
AUC.  In  subjects  who  are  poor  metabolisers,  darifenacin  exposure  increased  by  approximately  
10-fold. Due to a greater contribution of CYP3A4 after higher darifenacin doses, the magnitude of the 
effect is expected to be even more pronounced when combining ketoconazole with darifenacin 15 mg. 
When  co-administered  with  moderate  CYP3A4  inhibitors  such  as  erythromycin,  clarithromycin, 
telitromycin, fluconazole and grapefruit juice, the recommended starting dose of darifenacin should be 
7.5  mg  daily.  The  dose  may  be  titrated  to  15  mg  daily  to  obtain  an  improved  clinical  response 
provided  the  dose  is  well  tolerated.  Darifenacin  AUC24  and  Cmax  from  30  mg  od  dosing  in  subjects 
who  are  extensive  metabolisers  were  95%  and  128%  higher,  when  erythromycin  (moderate  CYP3A 
inhibitor) was co-administered with darifenacin than when darifenacin was taken alone. 
The magnitude of interaction with grapefruit juice will be dependent on the volume and frequency of 
administration.  Since  erythromycin  is  a  moderate  CYP3A  inhibitor  and  grapefruit  juice  showed 
smaller effect relative to erythromycin following daily administration, it is reasonable to conclude that 
the  anticipated  effect  of  grapefruit  juice  on  darifenacin  pharmacokinetics  will  not  exceed  that  of 
erythromycin. 
The possibility of an interaction with darifenacin and CYP3A4 inducers such as rifampicin, rifampin, 
carbamazepin, barbiturates and St John´s wort (Hypericum perforatum) cannot be excluded, and they 
are likely to decrease the plasma concentrations of darifenacin 
CYP2D6 inhibitors 
In  patients  receiving  drugs  that  are  potent  CYP2D6  inhibitors  (e.g.  paroxetine,  terbinafine  and 
quinidine) the recommended starting dose should be 7.5 mg daily. The dose may be titrated to 15 mg 
daily to obtain an  improved clinical response provided the dose is well tolerated.  
To quantify the effects of CYP2D6 inhibition on steady-state darifenacin pharmacokinetics in vivo, a 
clinical  study  was  performed  in  which  paroxetine  was  co-administered  with  darifenacin  30mg  CR 
tablets. Darifenacin AUC24 and Cmax after co-administration of paroxetine were 33% and 36% higher 
than when darifenacin was taken alone. However, lower strength darifenacin tablets were not tested. 
Mean  darifenacin  exposure  was  similar  in  EMs  receiving  paroxetine  and  PMs  receiving  darifenacin 
alone.  
17/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Cytochrome P450 inducers 
Co-administration  of  drugs  that  have  the  potential  to  induce  cytochrome  P450  expression  had  little 
apparent effect on the pharmacokinetics of darifenacin among patients in phase III studies. Any effect 
cytochrome P450 inducers may have on darifenacin pharmacokinetics are small in the context of other 
sources of variability.  
Effects of darifenacin on other medicinal products 
Based  on  the  midazolam  and  oral  contraceptives  hormones  studies,  it  is  concluded  that  darifenacin 
does  not  inhibit  the  CYP3A4  isoenzyme  at  clinically  relevant  concentrations.  Darifenacin  co-
administered with digoxin at steady-state results in a small increase on digoxin levels. Darifenacin had 
no clinically relevant effect on the exposure of the CYP3A4 substrate midazolam and had no effect on 
the pharmacokinetics of the oral contraceptives levonogestrel or ethinylestradiol. 
The effect of warfarin on prothrombin time was not altered when co-administered with darifenacin. 
As  with  any  other  antimuscarinic  agents,  the  concomitant  medication  with  medicinal  products  that 
possess  antimuscarinic  properties,  such  as  oxybutynin,  tolterodine  and  flavoxate  may  result  in  more 
pronounced  therapeutic  and  side  effects.  The  potentiation  of  anticholinergic  effects  with  anti-
parkinson  drugs  and  tricyclic  antidepressants  may  also  occur  if  antimuscarinic  agents  are  used 
concurrently  with  such  medicinal  products.  However,  no  studies  involving  the  interaction  with  anti-
parkinson drugs and tricyclic antidepressants have been performed.  
Pharmacodynamics 
The  primary  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  darifenacin  were  investigated  in  in  vitro  studies  to 
characterize the binding of darifenacin  and its metabolites to muscarinic receptors, and to determine 
the functional effects of darifenacin on in vitro models of M3-mediated pharmacological responses.  
Four exploratory Phase 2 studies were conducted to address the effect of darifenacin on urodynamic 
parameters indicative of bladder disfunction and detrusor overactivity.  
In  order  to  determine  the  pharmacological  effects  of  darifenacin  on  body  systems  other  than  the 
bladder, a variety of pharmacodynamic endpoints were measured in a number of Phase 1, Phase 2 and 
Phase  3  studies  during  the  clinical  program.  These  endpoints  were  salivary  flow,  visual  nearpoint, 
pupillometry, heart rate, heart rate variability, GI motility, CNS function and QT interval.  
• 
Mechanism of action 
Darifenacin  is  an  antimuscarinic  agent  that  binds  to  all  five  subtypes  of  muscarinic  receptors.  It  is 
targeted to the M3   subtype for which it is selective. 
Other  anti-muscarinic  drugs  are  used  for  urinary  incontinence-related  indications.  According  to  the 
data,  the  tested  alternatives  are  generally  less  selective.  This  is  particularly  true  for  the  M1  subtype 
(where  there  was  little  or  no  selectivity  with  tolterodine,  oxybutinin  or  propiverin).  For  the  other 
subtypes, selectivity varies e.g. oxybutinin appears more selective than darifenacin in relation the M5 
subtype. Tolterodine has been used as an active comparator in phase 3 studies.  
It can be said that the selectivity profile of darifenacin would be an advantage. However, it has to be 
considered  that  selectivity  is  a  matter  of  concentration,  e.g.,  increasing  around  10  times  the 
concentration  of  darifenacin  would  result  in  disappearance  of  the  selectivity  against  M1  and  M5 
receptors.  In  addition  a  10  times  difference  in  affinity  is  not  foolproof  and  does  not  necessarily 
guarantee  full  selectivity  in  vivo.  Depending  on  the  slope  of  the  dose-response  curve  of  the  agonist 
and of its relative concentrations at every receptor, it is possible that the concentrations needed to fully 
block the response in the relevant M3 receptors are sufficient to produce also an unwanted degree of 
block  in  other  receptors.  Pharmacokinetic  considerations  also  apply  (e.g.  lack  of  CNS  penetration 
would offset lack of CNS receptor selectivity). As a consequence, confirmation in phase 3 studies of 
the theoretical advantages is needed.  
In vitro studies in guinea pig bladder and preclinical data in dogs and rats indicated that darifenacin 
antagonizes bladder contraction. 
Darifenacin  reduces  induced  contraction  of  human  bladder  tissue  in  a  concentration-dependent 
manner. Based on the pKb values for effects on carbachol-induced contraction of bladder tissue, the 
rank  order  of  potency  was:  darifenacin>  atropine>  oxybutynin>  propiverine.  Darifenacin  was  also 
18/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
effective  in  antagonizing  contractile  responses  of  human  bladder  strips  induced  by  electrical  field 
stimulation  (EFS);  darifenacin  pre-treatment  (109  M  to  10-6  M)  inhibited  the  maximum  contractile 
response to EFS by up to 49%. 
• 
Primary pharmacology 
The results of four in vitro studies using human biomaterials are presented. The measurements of the 
affinity of darifenacin for recombinant human muscarinic receptors 1 to 5 cloned in CHO cells showed 
that  the  selectivity  ratios  for  M3  over  M1,  M5,  M2  and  M4  were  around  9,  12,  60  and  
60-fold, respectively. The pKi of darifenacin for human M3 receptors was 9.1. 
Darifenacin inhibited carbachol-induced contractions in human bladder tissue with a pKb of 9.6, close 
to its pKi for M3 receptors. 
In  clinical  studies,  cystometry  and  flowmetry  were  used  to  obtain  quantitative  measurements  of  the 
effects  of  darifenacin  on  bladder  outflow.  The  greatest  results  were  obtained  in  study  JP-95601 that 
was uncontrolled. In most cases, the included population had previous urodynamic pathology, which 
does  not  exactly  match  the  population  included  in  the  phase  III  studies  or  the  target  population.  
The studies showed increased bladder capacity, increased volume threshold for unstable contractions 
and  diminished 
treatment.  
These findings are consistent with the later clinical observations of reduced frequency of incontinence, 
reduced  frequency  of  micturition,  reduced  frequency  of  urgency  and  increased  functional  bladder 
capacity observed in patients with overactive bladder 
There is a dose-effect relationship for both the primary and secondary pharmacological endpoints. 
frequency  of  unstable  detrusor  contractions  after  darifenacin 
• 
Secondary pharmacology 
Several    “secondary  pharmacology”  studies  and  or  analyses  addressed  potential  side  effects  of 
antimuscarinic drugs. As expected, darifenacin reduces salivary flow and gastrointestinal motility in a 
dose-dependent manner. Visual accommodation is affected at high doses; CNS effects have only been 
documented  in  some  of  the  studies  with  the  highest  doses  assessed  and  in  a  few  of  the  studied 
parameters  (however,  the  subjects  included  had  always  normal  cognitive  function).  Effects  on  heart 
rate were scarce although no reference is made to the baseline vagal tone of the studied subjects.  
In  relation  to  QT  prolongation  (in  vitro,  pre-clinical  and  clinical  data),  it  can  be  concluded  that  the 
overall  risk  assessment  for  darifenacin  is  reassuring.  The  fact  that  darifenacin  is not associated with 
QT prolongation is further supported by the available preclinical and clinical QT studies. The clinical 
trial  information  is  based  upon  information  obtained  from  over  960  treated  patients  (i.e.  elderly, 
patients with risk factors for QT prolongation and those with pre-existing cardiac diseases). Overall, 
there were no statistically or clinically relevant mean differences from placebo for heart rate and QTc. 
Clinical efficacy  
The clinical program was  developed  to assess the efficacy and safety of darifenacin in patients with 
OAB. 
Dose selection for the Phase 3 program was based primarily on 2 fixed dose Phase 2 studies, which 
assessed  efficacy  of  total  daily  doses  of  15mg  and  30mg  darifenacin  on  OAB  symptoms.  
One additional Phase 2 studies conducted in Japan was aimed to assess the dose response relationship 
of different doses of darifenacin CR.  
Four  pivotal  Phase  3  randomized,  double  blind,  placebo  controlled,  parallel  group  12-week  studies 
support  the  use  of  darifenacin  7.5mg  and  15mg  in  the  treatment  of  OAB  (Studies  A1371047, 
A1371041,  A1371002  and  A1371001).  Data  from  three  of  these  studies  were  pooled  together  for 
meta-analysis. 
In addition a number of supportive efficacy trials were conducted. These included 2 Phase 3 flexible 
dosing regimen studies; a number of pharmacodynamic and efficacy studies. In addition 4 open label 
long  term  studies  assessed  the  long  term  safety  and  efficacy  of  darifenacin  and  2  special  studies 
evaluated the efficacy of darifenacin 30mg on urgency and nocturia. 
19/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Initially,  an  immediate  release  (IR)  formulation  was  used.  This  formulation  was  superseded  by  a 
prolonged-release  (PR)  formulation  for  once  daily  dosing.  All  pivotal  studies  have  being  conducted 
with the PR formulation, which is the only formulation for which approval is sought. 
In  OAB  studies  with  either  the  IR  or  CR  formulations,  3796  patients  were  treated,  of  whom  3306 
received the CR formulation and 1069 were treated with darifenacin in fixed dose Phase 3 studies.  
• 
Dose response studies 
Study 137-305  
A  multicenter  double  blind  (12  week),  placebo  controlled,  parallel  group  dose  response  study  of  IR 
darifenacin (2.5mg tid, 5mg tid, 10mg tid) in women with OAB and detrusor overactivity. A total of 
447 patients with objective evidence of unstable detrusor contractions were randomized, of which 369 
completed the study. 
This  study  showed  a  statistically  significant  improvement  at  Week  4  (primary  evaluation)  in  the 
number of incontinence episodes per week, frequency of urgency per day, frequency of micturition per 
day and volume of urine passed per void for the 10 mg tid dose of darifenacin, when compared with 
placebo.  
Furthermore by 12 weeks, subjects on darifenacin groups had a reduction in the number of incontinent 
episodes/week compared to placebo (treatment difference of -1.0, -1.0 and –1.5 for darifenacin 2.5 mg 
tid,  5  mg  tid  and  10  mg  tid,  respectively).  However,  the  improvement  in  incontinence  episodes  per 
week on 2.5mg and 5 mg  tid IR darifenacin in the study were not significantly different from placebo.  
Study 137-666 
A  double  blind,  placebo-controlled,  four-way  crossover  study  (14  days  per  period)  to  compare  the 
safety  and  efficacy  of  controlled-release  darifenacin  and  oxybutynin  tablets  in  the  treatment  of  urge 
incontinence. 
A total of 76 subjects with urge urinary incontinence (UUI) due to detrusor instability diagnosed by 
cystometry  were  treated  with  darifenacin  15mg  od,  darifenacin  30mg  od,  oxybutynin  5mg  tid  or 
placebo  for 14 days, with a 10 day washout between treatment periods. Of the 76 subjects enrolled,  
16 permanently discontinued from the study. A total of 60 subjects completed the entire study. 
Darifenacin 30mg treatment was significantly better than placebo for reducing all of the symptoms of 
incontinence/week,  urinary 
urge 
urge/day  and  severity  of  urge/episode)  and  significantly  better  than  darifenacin  15mg  in  reducing 
micturitions/day,  significant  incontinence/week  and severity of urge/episode. Both darifenacin 15mg 
and  oxybutynin  5mg  tid  were  statistically  significantly  better  than  placebo  in  reducing  incontinence 
per  week,  urinary  urge  per  day  and  the  severity  of  urge  per  episode.  There  was  no  statistically 
significant  difference  between  darifenacin  30mg  and  oxybutynin  5mg.  From  the  point  of  view  of 
efficacy, 30 mg od would appear more efficacious than 15 mg od at two weeks. 
incontinence/week,  significant 
incontinence  (micturition/day, 
Study A1371012 
A  multicenter  double  blind  (6  week),  placebo  controlled,  randomized,  parallel  group,  fixed  dose 
comparison study of controlled release darifenacin (7.5mg, 15mg and 30mg od) in patients with OAB. 
The primary objective was to study the dose response of darifenacin on symptoms of OAB. In total 
389 patients with symptoms of overactive bladder entered the study (96 to placebo, 96 to darifenacin 
7.5mg, 96 to darifenacin 15mg and 101 to darifenacin 30mg). 
This study had a 2 week washout period for patients on prohibited medication followed by a 2 week 
placebo run-in period followed by a 6 week double blind randomized period.  
At Week 6, subjects treated with darifenacin (7.5mg, 15mg or 30mg) experienced a numerically larger 
reduction  in  the  frequency  of  incontinent  episodes  after  six  weeks  of  treatment  than  subjects  who 
received  placebo  (median  treatment  difference  compared  with  placebo  were  –0.5,  -1.1  and  –1.8 
episodes  per  week,  respectively).  The  difference  from  placebo  was  statistically  significant  for 
darifenacin 30mg (p=0.012). 
Dose selection was based on adequate balance of efficacy and adverse reactions. Several doses were 
tested not only in the “dose-finding” phase 2 studies but in many phase 3 studies including “pivotal”. 
The  finally  recommended  dosage  schedule  (7.5  mg  od  with  optional  up-titration  to  15  mg)  was 
assessed,  as  such,  in  only  one  of  the  pivotal  trials  (A1371047).  Phase  2  and  3  studies  (including 
20/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
pivotal)  were  consistent  in  finding  a  dose-response  relationship  on  most  variables,  particularly  the 
most often used, incontinence frequency. 
It can be concluded that a general finding of the three previous studies is the superiority of the 30 mg 
od  dose  over  the  15  mg  od  dose  (the  highest  dose  finally  recommended),  and  this  one  was  more 
effective than 7.5 mg (the lowest of the two finally recommended dose). 
• 
MAIN STUDIES.  
The efficacy of darifenacin in the treatment of OAB have been studied in 3 double blind, randomised, 
placebo controlled parallel group, fixed dose Phase 3 studies of 12-week treatment duration (Studies 
A1371002,  A1371041  and  A1371001)  and  one  placebo  controlled  upward  dose  titration  study 
(A1371047) 
The doses studied in the Phase 3 program included darifenacin 3.75mg, 7.5mg, 15mg and 30mg od. 
Study A1371001 also included tolterodine 2mg bid as an active comparator, which is indicated for the 
treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency and frequency. 
A 2-week washout period (pre-screening visit) for patients on prohibited medication was followed by 
a  2-week  placebo  run-in  period (except  Study A1371001  where a medication free run-in was used), 
which was then followed by a 12-week double blind treatment.  
The  subject’s  eligibility  was  assessed  based  on  symptoms  of  OAB,  willingness  to  complete  an 
electronic patient diary, medical history and the subject’s self-report of childbearing potential.  
Efficacy data were collected using electronic patient diaries. Electronic diary was developed together 
with Araccel according to strict sponsor specifications and it was tested and validated. 
The  study  protocols  of  the  3  pivotal studies  (A137 1002,  A137 1041,  A137  1001) were  similar and 
allowed a pooled analysis. 
Study Participants  
The following inclusion criteria applied to patients enrolled in the pivotal studies: 
a)  Patients were male or female (non-childbearing potential or using effective contraception) and 
18 years of age or older.  
b)  Patients were expected to have all 3 cardinal symptoms of OAB (urgency, urge incontinence 
and micturition frequency) for at least 6 months and were expected to exhibit these symptoms 
at specified levels during the run-in period: 
• Incontinence: 5-50 episodes of urinary incontinence per week, average. 
• Micturition frequency: at least 8 micturitions per 24 hours on average. 
• Urgency: at least once per 24 hours on average. 
c)  They had to be in good health and capable of taking study medication on an outpatient basis, 
as  well  as  capable  of  independent  toileting  and  of  independently  completing  the  electronic 
patient diary 
Patients were excluded if they experienced clinically significant stress incontinence (i.e. greater than 1 
episode  of  stress  incontinence  per  week),  significant  bladder  outlet  obstruction  and/or  a  post  void 
residual (PVR) volume of greater than 200 mls (as measured by pelvic ultrasound or catheterisation). 
Likewise, patients with significant urogenital disease, such as recurrent urinary tract infection (UTI) or 
interstitial  cystitis  and  patients  who  had  undergone  hysterectomy  or  prostatectomy  in  the  past  6 
months were excluded. 
Patients with both idiopathic and neurogenic OAB were included, but by far the majority of patients 
were found to have idiopathic OAB. 
Prohibited medication included drugs with significant anticholinergic or antispasmodic effects, potent 
inhibitors of CYP3A4 enzyme systems (ketoconazole, itraconazole, miconazole, troleandomycin and 
nefazodone), estrogens if taken for less than 2 months as well as opioids and other drugs that could 
cause  significant  constipation.  Bulking  agents  and  stool  softeners  were  allowed  for  the  treatment  of 
constipation. 
Patients  in  whom  antimuscarinic  drugs  were  contraindicated  were  excluded  (e.g.  those  with 
uncontrolled  narrow-angle  glaucoma,  urinary  retention  or  gastric  retention).  In  studies  with 
tolterodine, drugs contraindicated by the tolterodine label were also excluded.  
21/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
The  intentional  randomization  of  patients  known  to  be  responsive  to,  or  tolerant  of,  anticholinergic 
therapy was avoided. In Studies A1371041 and A1371047, patients who had participated in previous 
controlled,  double  blind  darifenacin  studies  of  16  weeks  or  less  were  allowed  to  participate  if  they 
discontinued medication as required by these protocols. Patients who had participated in an open long-
term (greater than 16 weeks) darifenacin study, such as study A1371014 or 137-311 were excluded. 
The minimum period for any subject between completion of a previous darifenacin study and the start 
of Studies A1371041 or A1371047 was 4 months. 
Treatments 
The OAB Phase 3 program was designed to study the dose range from 7.5mg to 30mg.  
The  3.75  mg  dose  was  studied  in  Study  A1371041.  A  significant  number  of  the  Phase  3  patients 
received the 30mg dose as fixed doses (A1371001, A1371002).  
The active comparator used in this development program was tolterodine IR 2mg bid. At the time of 
the start of the Phase 3 OAB clinical program, the long acting (LA) formulation of tolterodine was not 
available.  In  terms  of  the  efficacy  and  safety  profile,  however,  there  it  is  not  expected  to  be  any 
difference between both formulations of tolterodine, as has been reported in the published literature. 
Dosing in all Phase 3 studies was performed on an outpatient administered as a CR tablet od with or 
without food. In the active comparator, 2 tablets and a capsule were taken in the morning and another 
capsule was taken at night. 
Objectives 
For study A137 1002 and study A137 1041, the primary objective was to assess the clinical efficacy of 
3 doses of darifenacin on symptoms of OAB. Secondary was to evaluate the safety and toleration of 
darifenacin,  to  evaluate  the  population  pharmacokinetics  of  darifenacin  and  to  evaluate  the  effect of 
darifenacin on quality of life in subjects with overactive bladder. 
Study A137 1001 aimed to compare the clinical efficacy of controlled release darifenacin (15mg od 
and 30mg od) with tolterodine (2mg bid) and placebo in patients with OAB. For study A137 1047, the 
primary  objective  was  to  assess  the  efficacy  of  darifenacin  7.5mg,  with  the  option  of  up-titration  to 
15mg at Week 2, on the symptoms of OAB. 
 The secondary objective was similar to that for studies A137 1002 and A137 1041. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The analysis of efficacy relied on patient recorded symptoms. All Phase 3 studies assessed the same 
efficacy evaluations. 
The primary efficacy outcome was the frequency of incontinence episodes per week as measured after 
12  weeks  of  treatment.  The  primary  efficacy  evaluation  was  the  difference  from  placebo  for  the 
number of incontinence episodes per week. Studies were not powered individually to show statistical 
superiority over placebo on any of the secondary evaluations. 
Secondary  evaluations  measured  effects  on  frequency  of  micturition,  volume  of  urine  voided, 
frequency and severity of urgency, other symptoms related to OAB and measures of quality of life and 
patient  perceived  quality  of  treatment  (PPQT).  These  evaluations  were  also  recorded  in  the  bladder 
diary. 
- 
- 
- 
-  maximum  volume  voided  (studies  A1371001  and  A1371002).  It  was  omitted  from  Studies 
A1371041  and  A1371047,  because  the  data  from  earlier  Phase  3  studies  suggested  that  this 
evaluation may not provide the best representation of bladder capacity. 
number of episodes of urgency per day 
severity of urgency per day: There is no widely accepted method for the assessment of severity of 
urgency. A 100mm visual analog scale, which ranged from mild (scored 0) to severe (scored 100) 
was used in the Phase 3 studies. Patients were asked to complete the visual analog scale at the end 
of each day if they recorded an episode of urgency at any time during the day. 
number of nocturnal awakenings due to OAB per week.  
number of incontinence episodes per week resulting in a change of clothing or pad 
number of micturitions per day 
volume of urine passed per void 
- 
- 
- 
22/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•Responder rates were calculated for a few parameters to obtain information about the efficacy rates in 
patients who were noted to have clinically significant improvements in these parameters. 
•Incontinence  responders:  These  were  defined  as  patients  who  achieved  a  50%  or  greater  reduction 
from  baseline  in  the  number  of  incontinence  episodes  per  week.  This  response  rate  was  chosen 
because it exceeds the expected placebo response rate in clinical trials, which is 30-50%. 
•Frequency  of  micturition  responders:  These  were  defined  as  patients  who  achieved  a  normal 
frequency  of  micturition  (<8  micturitions  per  day)  using  the  International  Continence  Society  (ISC) 
definition  at  the  time  of  the  studies.  Studies  A1371041  and  A1371047  had  response  defined  as 
achieving  at  least  three  dry  days  per  week  (of  those  subjects  with  zero  dry  days  at  baseline)  as  an 
additional response evaluation. 
An assessment of patient reported outcomes (PRO) was made using the King’s Health Questionnaire 
(KHQ) and a new instrument, the patient perceived quality of treatment (PPQT) questions.  
The KHQ is a disease-specific health-related QoL questionnaire.  
Patient Perceived Quality of Treatment (PPQT) has been developed as a method for assessing patient 
satisfaction in conjunction with the disease-specific quality o life measures used in clinical trials. 
The PPQT instrument was validated using data from Study A1371002. 
Sample size 
A  total  of  2078  subjects  were  enrolled  in  the  four  pivotal  studies.    Of  these  patients,  64.2%  were 
randomised to darifenacin (3.75 mg, 7.5 mg, 15 mg, 30 mg), 10.7% to active (tolterodine) group and 
24.9% to placebo arm. The mean age of the study population was between 53 and 65 years and patient 
were predominantly female (79-90%). The majority of patients were Caucasian. 
In  study  A137  1002,  a  total  of  439  patients  were  randomized  (109  to  placebo,  108  to  darifenacin 
7.5mg, 107 to darifenacin 15mg and 115 to darifenacin 30mg). 
For  study  A137  1041,  561  patients  were  randomized  (164  to  placebo,  53  to  darifenacin  3.75mg,  
229 to darifenacin 7.5mg and 115 to darifenacin 30mg). 
For study A137 1001, 680 patients were randomized (115 to placebo, 112 to darifenacin 15mg, 230 to 
darifenacin 30mg and 223 to tolterodine). 
For study A137 1047, 398 patients were randomised (129 to placebo, 269 to darifenacin). 
Randomisation 
A  randomisation  list  was  produced  with  an  equal  (1002)  /unequal  (1041,  1001,  1047)  allocation 
randomisation  ratio  using  a  block  size  of  six-eight-ten.  The  randomisation  was  not  stratified  by  any 
factor,  although  complete  blocks  of  subject  numbers  and  medication  packs  were  issued  to  each 
recruiting centre. 
Blinding  
These  were  double  blind  studies  with  (two  or  four)  treatment  groups.  The  different  dosages  of 
darifenacin  (7.5  mg,  15  mg,  30  mg)  were  distinguishable  by  the  colour  and  shape  of  the  tablets. 
Tolterodine  was  supplied  as  white  capsules.  Blinding  was  maintained  by  inclusion  of  matching 
placebos for the non-active dosage forms (double dummy design).  
Statistical methods 
The primary time point for analysis was Week 12. 
Two  efficacy  populations  were  defined  in  the  individual  studies.  These  were  the  full  analysis  set 
(FAS), including all subjects who were randomised, took at least 1 dose of medication and had some 
bladder  diary  data  a  baseline  and  postbaseline  efficacy  assessment  and  the  per-protocol  set  (PPS), 
defined as those subjects from the FAS who adhered to the major aspects of the protocol. The FAS is 
not a true ITT population, as one would expect. Even if due to the small number of discontinuations it 
is likely that there are no much differences between both analyses, a true ITT analysis was requested. 
The analysis provided evidenced that the ITT results were essentially identical to those obtained from 
the FAS. 
23/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the individual studies, for tests that relate to the assessment of superiority, the FAS was the primary 
population and the PPS was a secondary population. Both the per-protocol and the FAS analyses used 
the last-observation-carried-forward (LOCF) algorithm where efficacy data were missing. 
Studies  A1371041  and  A1371047:  An  additional  population,  the  intent-to-treat  population,  was 
defined as all randomised subjects, regardless of whether treatment was received or whether data were 
collected.  Primary  and  secondary  endpoints  were  also  analysed  using  the  all  randomised  subjects 
population to assess the robustness of results from the full analysis set.  
The  comparability  of  the  treatment  groups  at  baseline  was  assessed  using  descriptive  statistics.  
No  significance  testing  between  the  treatment  groups  was  performed.  Wherever  possible,  efficacy 
analyses  were  adjusted  for  baseline  severity.  Baseline  severity  of  OAB  was  categorized  using  the 
baseline data of the primary efficacy variable as Mild to Moderate (<21 episodes of incontinence per 
week)  and  Severe  (≥21  episodes  per  week).  Age  was  examined  split  by  both  (<65  and  ≥65)  and  
(18-44, 45-64, 65-74 and ≥75). This second split by age was done for the meta-analysis only, because 
the number of subjects was insufficient in the individual studies for a useful comparison. 
Statistical  tests  for  the  drug  treatment  groups  against  placebo  were  generally  assessed  at  the  5% 
significance  level,  except  for  Study  A1371001  in  which  the  tests  were  assessed  at  the  2.5% 
significance  level  to  manage  multiple  comparisons  against  placebo  and  the  active  comparator, 
tolterodine. 
The  assessment  of  non-inferiority  of  darifenacin  compared  with  tolterodine  was  made  only  if 
superiority of darifenacin against tolterodine had not been first established.  
Using  the  confidence  interval  for  the  darifenacin  versus  tolterodine  contrast,  non-inferiority  was 
assessed  by  comparing  the  upper  limit  of  the  confidence  interval  to  the  pre-defined  limit  of  non-
inferiority, which was defined as 3 episodes of incontinence per week. If the upper limit was 3 or less 
then a conclusion of non-inferiority of darifenacin against tolterodine was made. 
In  Studies  A1371002  and  A1371041,  a  step  down  testing  procedure  was  used  for  the  efficacy  data, 
where the testing of a lower dose was dependent upon significance (at 5%) being first found for the 
previous dose. A similar stepped testing strategy was applied where darifenacin 30mg and 15mg were 
compared  with  placebo  and  tolterodine  in  Study  A1371001.  In  this  study  all  tests  were  done  at  the 
(two  sided)  2.5%  significance  level.  Darifenacin  15mg  and  30mg  were  first  tested  against  placebo. 
Each dose that was found to be significantly better than placebo was then tested against tolterodine. 
Non-inferiority testing was to be performed for the primary efficacy endpoint if the dose was found 
not superior to tolterodine. 
In  addition  analyses  at  Week  2  were  also  performed  for  the  primary  variable  and  all  secondary 
variables,  except  the  incontinence  and  frequency  of  micturition  responders,  in  order  to  examine  the 
efficacy at this early time point. 
These were secondary efficacy analyses to the Week 12 analyses 
Data  from  only  the  fixed  dose,  placebo  controlled,  12  week  studies  with  similar  design (A1371002, 
A1371041  and  A1371001)  were  pooled.  The  pooled  analyses  did  not  include  data  from  the  double 
blind, 12 week dosing regimen Study A1371047.  
No statistical analysis of long-term data was performed, and only descriptive statistics of the data are 
presented in the summary. 
24/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Study A137 1002 
A  multicenter  double  blind  (12  week),  placebo  controlled,  randomized,  parallel  group,  fixed  dose 
comparison study of controlled release darifenacin (7.5mg, 15mg and 30mg od) in patients with OAB. 
Participant flow 
Assessed for 
Eligibility (n=818)  
Excluded (n=379) 
Randomised (n=439) 
Placebo  (n=109) 
Darifenacin 7.5  (n=108) 
Darifenacin 15  (n=108) 
Darifenacin 30  (n=108) 
Discontinuation (n=8)
Discontinuation (n=9)
Discontinuation (n=14) 
Discontinuation (n=19) 
Analysed  FAS (n=108) 
Excluded (n=1) 
Analysed  FAS (n=108) 
Excluded (n=1) 
Analysed  FAS (n=108) 
Excluded (n=1) 
Analysed  FAS (n=108) 
Excluded (n=1) 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
Recruitment 
Males  and  females  (using  adequate  contraception  if  of  child  bearing  potential),  aged  18  years  and 
older (actual ages 21 to 88 years) with symptoms of overactive bladder (UUI) for at least six months 
prior to entry in the study. 
Numbers analysed 
In total 439 patients were randomised (109 to placebo, 108 to darifenacin 7.5mg, 107 to darifenacin 
15mg and 115 to darifenacin 30mg). Of the 439 patients, 50 (11.4%) were discontinued. Insufficient 
therapeutic effect led to a premature discontinuation in one (0.9%) darifenacin 7.5mg, two (1.9%) in 
15mg group and one (0.9%) in darifenacin 30mg, and 2 (1.8%) placebo subjects. Adverse events led 
to  a  premature  discontinuation in  2.8% of the placebo group  and 1.9%, 5.6%  and 11.3% in 7.5  mg,  
15 mg and 30 mg groups, respectively.  
The  full  analysis  set  for  efficacy  analyses  included  436  subjects  (99.3%  of  subjects  who  took 
medication).  The  per  protocol  set  for  efficacy  excluded  9,  11,  16,  8  subjects  in  the  placebo,  7.5mg, 
15mg and 30mg groups, respectively.  
Outcomes and estimation 
At Week 12, statistically significant improvements in the number of incontinence episodes per week 
were seen, for patients on all 3 doses of darifenacin compared with placebo.  
25/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Relative  to  placebo  there  was  a  dose  related  reduction:  darifenacin  7.5mg  subjects  improved  by  an 
average  (median)  of  2.8  episodes  per  week,  darifenacin  15mg  subjects  improved  by  an  average  of  
4.3  episodes  per  week  and  darifenacin  30mg  subjects  improved  by  an  average  of  6.3  episodes  per 
week,  representing  68.7,  76.5  and  77.3%  reductions  from  baseline,  respectively,  compared  with  a 
reduction  of  46.0%  for  subjects  on  placebo.  The  median  reductions  seen  from  baseline  for  the  per 
protocol assessment, were similar to those observed for the full analysis set. 
A large part of the reduction in the number of incontinent episodes per week seen at Week 12 was also 
evident by Week 2.  
Statistically significant benefits over placebo were seen in 7/9 secondary efficacy evaluations (number 
of  micturitions  per  day,  volume  of  urine  passed  per  voiding,  number  and  severity  of  episodes  of 
urgency per day, number of nocturnal awakenings for OAB per week, number of incontinent episodes 
per week resulting in a change of clothing  or  pad and incontinence responders) for both darifenacin 
30mg and 15mg and in 3/9 secondary efficacy evaluations for darifenacin 7.5mg (number of nocturnal 
awakenings due to OAB per week, number of incontinence episodes resulting in a change of clothing 
or pad and incontinence responders). 
The  analysis  of  incontinence  responder  rates  at  Week  12  showed  that  67%  of  darifenacin  7.5mg 
subjects,  72%  of  darifenacin  15mg  subjects  and  75%  of  darifenacin  30mg  subjects  demonstrated  at 
least  a  50%  improvement  in  the  number  of  incontinent  episodes  compared  with  49%  on  placebo  
(p = 0.007, 0.001 and p<0.001, respectively). 
A  similar  examination  of  the  proportion  of  responders  defined  by  normalisation  of  micturition  at 
Week 12 indicated 36% of darifenacin 7.5mg subjects, 39% of darifenacin 15mg subjects and 42% of 
darifenacin  30mg  subjects  demonstrated  frequencies  of  micturition  of  less  than  eight  per  day 
compared with 31% on placebo. None of the comparisons of darifenacin with placebo was statistically 
significant. 
For  the  Kings  Health  Questionnaire,  darifenacin  30mg showed statistical  difference from placebo  in 
6/9 domains (all except general health perceptions, physical limitations and personal relationships) and 
darifenacin  7.5mg  and  15mg  showed  statistically  significant  benefits  over  placebo  in  5/9  domains 
(social  limitations,  role  limitations,  sleep/energy,  emotions  and  severity  measures)  and  2/9  domains 
(social limitations and severity measures) respectively.  
For the PPQT, all doses of darifenacin showed statistically significant benefits over placebo in patient 
satisfaction  with  treatment  and  patient  preference  for  treatment.  In  addition  darifenacin  30mg  and 
7.5mg  showed statistically significant benefits over placebo in patient willingness to use medication 
again. 
In conclusion, there was a consistent significant response for 15 and 30 mg doses in the majority of 
variables  including  the  primary  variable  number  of  incontinence  episodes  per  week.  The  effect  of  
7.5 mg was smaller and significant only in a few variables including the primary one. The effect was 
considerably less clear in the two patient reported outcomes measures. 
26/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
Study A137 1041 
A multicenter phase 3b double blind (12 week), placebo controlled, randomized, parallel group, fixed 
dose comparison study of controlled release darifenacin (3.75mg, 7.5mg  and 15mg) in patients with 
OAB. 
Participant flow 
Assessed for 
Eligibility (n=983)  
Excluded (n=422) 
Randomised (n=561) 
Placebo  (n=164) 
Darifenacin 3.75  (n=53) 
Darifenacin 7.5  (n=229) 
Darifenacin 15  (n=115) 
Discontinuation (n=12)
Discontinuation (n=4)
Discontinuation (n=10) 
Discontinuation (n=9) 
Analysed  FAS (n=164) 
Excluded (n=0) 
Analysed  FAS (n=53)  
Excluded (n=0) 
Analysed  FAS (n=229) 
Excluded (n=0) 
Analysed  FAS (n=115) 
Excluded (n=0) 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
Numbers analysed 
A total of 561 subjects were randomised to treatment, of which 35 (6.2%) discontinued. Six subjects 
(one placebo, one darifenacin 3.75mg, two darifenacin 7.5mg and two darifenacin 15mg) discontinued 
due  to  insufficient  clinical  response.  Ten  subjects  (three  placebo,  one  darifenacin  3.75mg,  three 
darifenacin 7.5mg and three darifenacin 15mg) discontinued due to adverse events. 
A  total  of  561  subjects  were  included  in  the  full  analysis  set.  In  total,  62  (11.1%)  subjects  were 
excluded  from  the  per  protocol  set  (10.4%,  15.1%,  11.4%  and  9.6%  of  subjects  in  the  placebo, 
darifenacin 3.75mg, 7.5mg and 15mg groups, respectively).  
Outcomes and estimation 
At  Week  12  both  darifenacin  7.5mg  and  15mg  showed  a  statistically  significant  reduction  in  the 
number of incontinence episodes per week. Darifenacin 7.5mg subjects achieved an average (median) 
reduction  of  9.0  incontinent  episodes  per  week  and  darifenacin  15mg  subjects  a  reduction  of  
10.4  episodes  per  week  compared  with  an  average  reduction  of  7.6  episodes  in  the  placebo  group. 
Subjects in the darifenacin 3.75mg group improved by an average of 8.6 episodes per week.  
For  all  treatment  groups,  the  median  reductions  from  baseline  for  the  per  protocol  population  were 
similar to those observed for the full analysis set. 
At  Week  2,  subjects  treated  with  darifenacin  7.5mg  and  15mg  experienced  statistically  significantly 
greater reductions in the frequency of incontinent episodes per week than subjects treated with placebo 
(–2.0,  p=0.003  for  darifenacin  7.5mg  and    –4.0,  p<0.001  for  darifenacin  15mg).  There  was  a  dose 
27/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dependent  reduction  in  the  number  of  incontinent  episodes  per  week  in  the  darifenacin  groups 
compared  with  placebo  at  Weeks  2  and  12.  The  dose  response  was  not  statistically  significant 
(p=0.049).  
In  addition,  at  Weeks  12  and  2,  patients  treated  with  darifenacin  7.5mg  and  15mg  had  statistically 
greater improvements in the average number of micturitions per day, average volume of urine passed 
per void, average number of episodes and average severity of urgency per day compared with patients 
treated with placebo. In addition, at Weeks 12 and 2, statistically significant improvements in number 
of incontinent episodes per week resulting in a change of clothing or pad (all patients and patients with 
more than 1  episode per week at baseline) and normalised micturition frequency (average number of 
micturitions  required  to  void  1000ml,  only  Week  2  for  darifenacin  7.5mg)  were  experienced  by 
patients treated with darifenacin 7.5mg and 15mg compared with patients treated with placebo.  
The results of the per protocol analysis were very similar to the results obtained using the full analysis 
set 
There  was  a  non  significant  higher  percentage  of  incontinence  responders  in  the  darifenacin  groups 
than  in  the  placebo  group;  57%  of  darifenacin  3.75mg  subjects,  65%  of  darifenacin  7.5mg  subjects 
and  65%  of  darifenacin  15mg  subjects  responded  at  Week  12  compared  with  54%  of  subjects  on 
placebo.  
There was a non significant higher percentage of responders defined by normalisation of micturition in 
the  darifenacin  groups  than  in  the  placebo  group;  30%  of  darifenacin  3.75mg  subjects,  33%  of 
darifenacin  7.5mg  subjects  and  31%  of  darifenacin  15mg  subjects  responded  at  Week  12  compared 
with 24% of subjects on placebo. 
There  was  a  non  significant  higher  percentage  of  responders  defined  by  at  least  three  dry  days  per 
week (for subjects with no dry days at baseline) in the darifenacin groups than in the placebo group; 
53% of darifenacin 3.75mg subjects, 43% of darifenacin 7.5mg subjects and 49% of darifenacin 15mg 
subjects responded to treatment at Week 12 compared with 38% of subjects on placebo. 
28/43
EMEA 2005 
 
None of the comparisons of darifenacin with placebo reached statistical significance. 
Analyses  of  the  change  from  baseline  in  responses  to  the  Kings  Health  Questionnaire  showed  that 
subjects  treated  with  darifenacin  7.5mg  and  15mg  had  statistically  significant  improvements  in  the 
incontinence impact, role limitations, social limitations and severity measures domains compared with 
placebo. Subjects treated with darifenacin 15mg also had a statistically significant improvement in the 
emotions domain compared with subjects treated with placebo. 
Statistically significantly more subjects treated with darifenacin 7.5mg and 15mg were satisfied with 
study  treatment  and  more  willing  to  re-use  study  treatment  than  subjects  treated  with  placebo.  
In addition, a higher proportion of subjects in these groups preferred study treatment to their previous 
treatment  compared  with  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  (71%  of  subjects  in  both  darifenacin  groups 
compared with 63% of subjects in the placebo group). 
In  conclusion,  the  study  shows  a  consistent  response  on  many  of  the  symptom  effects,  compared  to 
placebo. 
Study A137 1001 
A multicenter, double blind (12 week), placebo controlled, parallel group study to compare the clinical 
efficacy  of  controlled  release  darifenacin  (15mg  od  and  30mg  od)  with  tolterodine  (2mg  bid)  and 
placebo in patients with OAB. 
Participant flow 
Assessed for 
Eligibility (n=1815) 
Excluded (n=1135) 
Randomised (n=680) 
Placebo  (n=115) 
Tolterodine (n=223) 
Darifenacin 15  (n=112) 
Darifenacin 30  (n=230) 
Discontinuation (n=11) 
Discontinuation (n=30) 
Discontinuation (n=20) 
Discontinuation (n=72) 
Analysed  FAS (n=114) 
Excluded (n=1) 
Analysed  FAS (n=221) 
Excluded (n=2) 
Analysed  FAS (n=109) 
Excluded (n=3) 
Analysed  FAS (n=226) 
Excluded (n=4) 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
29/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recruitment 
Males  and  females  (using  adequate  contraception  if  of  child  bearing  potential),  aged  18  years  and 
older (actual ages 21 to 93 years) with symptoms of overactive bladder for at least six months prior to 
entry in the study. 
Numbers analysed 
A total of 680 subjects were randomised to treatment. Of them, 133 (19.6%) discontinued treatment. 
Overall, a greater percentage of subjects discontinued in the darifenacin 30mg group (31.3%) than in 
the darifenacin 15mg (17.8%), tolterodine (13.5%) and placebo groups (9.6%).One (0.9%) darifenacin 
15mg od, one (0.4%) darifenacin 30mg od, one (0.4%) tolterodine 2mg bid and two (1.7%) placebo 
subjects withdrew because of insufficient clinical response. Ninety-three subjects discontinued due to 
adverse  events:  8  (7.1%)  darifenacin  15mg  od,  64  (27.8%)  darifenacin  30mg  od,  17    (7.6%) 
tolterodine 2mg bid and 4 (3.5%) placebo subjects. 
The  full  analysis  set  for  efficacy  analyses  included  670  subjects  (98.5%  of  subjects  who  took 
medication). There were a total of 572 subjects in the per protocol set: 98, 180, 188 and 106 subjects 
in the darifenacin 15 and 30mg, tolterodine and placebo groups, respectively. 
30/43
EMEA 2005 
Outcomes and estimation 
The  median  reductions  observed  from  baseline  to  Week  12  were  11.4  (83.3%)  and  12.6  (81.7%) 
episodes  per  week  for  darifenacin  15  and  30mg  subjects,  respectively,  compared  with  10.3  (73.7%) 
episodes  per  week  for  tolterodine  and  9.0  (70.9%)  for  placebo  subjects.  There  was  a  statistically 
significant  reduction  in  the  number  of  incontinent  episodes  per  week  for  darifenacin  30mg  subjects 
compared with placebo (p<0.001) at Week 12 but not for darifenacin 15mg compared with placebo (p 
= 0.049) [0.025 was the pre-established significance level due to multiple comparisons]. 
The comparison of darifenacin 30mg with tolterodine also reached statistical significance (p = 0.002). 
In  accordance  with  the  step  down  strategy  darifenacin  15mg,  was  not  tested  against  tolterodine.  
The  median  reductions  seen  from  baseline  were  similar  to  those  observed  for  the  full  analysis  set 
discussed above. 
31/43
EMEA 2005 
Efficacy was also observed by Week 2, particularly for subjects on darifenacin 30mg, for which the 
reduction in the number of incontinent episodes per week seen at Week 12 was also evident by Week 
2. The median reductions observed from baseline to Week 2 were 8.9 and 10.5 episodes per week for 
darifenacin 15 and 30mg subjects, respectively, compared with 7.3 episodes per week for tolterodine 
and  5.9  for  placebo  subjects.  There  was  a  statistically  significant  reduction  in  the  number  of 
incontinent  episodes  per  week  for  both  darifenacin  15mg  and  darifenacin  30mg  subjects  compared 
with  placebo  at  Week  2,  however  only  the  subsequent  comparison  of  darifenacin  30mg  with 
tolterodine reached statistical significance. 
In  seven  out  of  ten  secondary  endpoints,  darifenacin  30mg  showed  statistically  significant  efficacy 
over  placebo.  In  particular,  darifenacin  30mg  was  statistically  more  effective  than  placebo  in  the 
average volume of urine passed per voiding and the average number of episodes of urgency per day. 
The endpoints that did not show statistical significance were the average number of micturitions per 
day,  the  average  number  of  nocturnal  awakenings  for  OAB  per  week  and  responders  defined  by 
normalisation of micturition. Also, for two secondary endpoints (the average volume of urine passed 
per voiding and the maximum volume voided), darifenacin 30mg was statistically significantly better 
than tolterodine. Darifenacin 15mg was statistically significantly more effective than placebo for two 
secondary  endpoints  (the  average  volume  of  urine  passed  per  voiding  and  the  severity  of  urgency) 
although in both cases the comparison with tolterodine was not statistically significant.  
Examination of the proportion of responders defined by relative improvement in incontinent episodes 
at  Week  12  indicated  that,  despite  a  high  placebo  response,  statistically  significantly  more  subjects 
improved on darifenacin 30mg than on placebo (73% and 81% of darifenacin 15 and 30mg subjects, 
respectively, and 72% of tolterodine subjects demonstrated at least a 50% improvement in the number 
of  incontinent  episodes,  compared  with  66%  for  placebo  subjects).  The  comparison  of  darifenacin 
30mg  with  tolterodine  was  not  statistically  significant.  The  comparisons  of  darifenacin  15mg  with 
placebo were not statistically significant. 
A  similar  examination  of  the  proportion  of  responders  defined  by  normalisation  of  micturition  at 
Week 12 indicated 35% of darifenacin 15mg subjects, 39% of darifenacin 30mg subjects and 38% of 
tolterodine subjects demonstrated frequencies of micturition of less than eight per day. Neither of the 
comparisons of darifenacin with placebo reached statistical significance. 
Darifenacin 15mg showed statistically significant efficacy over placebo in three out of nine domains 
of  the    Kings  Health  Questionnaire  (incontinence  impact,  role  limitations  and  severity  measures). 
Darifenacin 30mg showed statistically significant benefits over placebo in two out of nine endpoints 
(incontinence  impact  and  role  limitations).  None  of  the  subsequent  comparisons  of  darifenacin  with 
tolterodine reached statistical significance. 
Both darifenacin doses were statistically better than placebo in the patient satisfaction with treatment 
and patient willingness to use treatment again evaluations. 
32/43
EMEA 2005 
 
Study A137 1047 
A  multicenter,  phase  3b  double  blind  (12  week),  upward  dose  titration,  placebo  controlled,  parallel 
group study of darifenacin 7.5mg and 15mg in patients with OAB. 
Participant flow 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
Assessed for 
Eligibility (n=955) 
Excluded (n=557) 
Randomised (n=398) 
Placebo  (n=129) 
Darifenacin  (n=269) 
Discontinuation (n=12) 
Discontinuation (n=26)
Analysed  FAS (n=123) 
Excluded (n=6) 
Analysed  FAS (n=264) 
Excluded (n=5) 
Recruitment 
Male and female (using adequate contraception if of child bearing potential), aged 18 years and older 
(actual ages 22 to 89)with symptoms of OAB for at least six months prior to entry in the study. 
Numbers analysed 
A total of 398 patients were randomised to receive 7.5mg darifenacin or placebo on a once daily basis 
for 12 weeks. After two weeks of treatment, the investigator and the subject assessed the efficacy and 
tolerability  achieved.  Upward  dose  adjustment  to  15mg  od  darifenacin  (for  subjects  randomised  to 
darifenacin), or placebo (for subjects randomised to placebo), was allowed at this time. 
Of  the  395  subjects  randomised  and  who  received  treatment,  38  (9.6%)  were  discontinued.  
Two  (0.7%)  darifenacin  and  one  (0.8%)  placebo  subjects  withdrew  because  of  insufficient  clinical 
response.  In  addition,  22  discontinued  due  to  adverse  events,  18  (6.7%)  darifenacin  and  4  (3.1%) 
placebo subjects.  
A total of 158 (59.0%) darifenacin and 86 (67.7%) placebo subjects dose escalated. 
The full analysis set included 387 subjects (97.2% of randomised subjects), of which 264 were in the 
darifenacin  group  and  123  in  the  placebo  group.  Eleven  additional  subjects  were  included  in  the  all 
randomised subjects population compared to the full analysis set. The results for the primary endpoint, 
all  randomised  subjects,  are  very  similar 
total,  
to 
73 (18.9%) subjects included in the full analysis set were excluded from the per protocol set (17.8% in 
the darifenacin group and 21.1%in the placebo group).  
the  full  analysis.  In 
that  seen  for 
Outcomes and estimation 
33/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subjects  treated  with  darifenacin  experienced  statistically  significantly  greater  reductions  in  the 
frequency  of  incontinent  episodes  per  week  than  subjects  treated  with  placebo  (-1.4;  p  =  0.035).  
The median reductions from baseline to Week 12 were 8.2 episodes per week for darifenacin subjects 
compared  with  6.0  episodes  per  week  for  subjects  on  placebo  representing  a  62.9%  reduction  from 
baseline for darifenacin subjects compared with a reduction of 48.1% for placebo subjects.  
At the same time the upper limit of the 95% confidence interval is very close to 0, this is because of a 
large number of tied observations between the two treatment groups. 
At  Week  2,  statistically  significant  improvements  were  seen  in  the  primary  efficacy  evaluation. 
Subjects  treated  with  darifenacin  experienced  statistically  significantly  greater  reductions  in  the 
frequency of incontinent episodes per week than subjects treated with placebo (-1.4; p = 0.042). 
For  both  treatment  groups,  the  median  reductions  from  baseline  for  subjects  on  a  per  protocol basis 
were similar to those observed for the full analysis set discussed above. 
At Week 12, subjects treated with darifenacin had statistically significant greater improvements in the 
average number of micturitions per day, the average volume of urine passed per voiding, the average 
number  of  episodes  of  urgency  per  day,  the  average  severity  of  urgency  per  day,  the  number  of 
incontinent episodes per week resulting in a change of clothing or pad (all subjects and those with a 
baseline >0) and normalised  micturition  frequency (average number of micturitions required to void 
1000 ml) 
There  was  a  higher  percentage  of  responders  defined  by  a  relative  improvement  in  incontinent 
episodes in the darifenacin group than in the placebo group at Week 12: 62% of darifenacin subjects 
compared with 49% of placebo subjects.   
There was a higher percentage of responders defined by normalisation of micturition in the darifenacin 
group  than  in  the  placebo  group:  39%of  darifenacin  subjects  responded  at  Week  12  compared  with 
23%of placebo subjects.  
There  was  a  higher  percentage  of  responders  defined  by  at  least  three  dry  days  per  week  in  the 
darifenacin  group  than  in  the  placebo  group:30%of  darifenacin  subjects  responded  to  treatment  at 
Week 12 compared with 23% of placebo subjects.  
For  the  KHQ,  darifenacin  was  statistically  significantly  better  than  placebo  in  3/9  domains  (role 
limitations, physical limitations and social limitations).  
Darifenacin showed statistically significant benefits over placebo in patient satisfaction with treatment 
and patient willingness to use medication again [PPQT 2/3 positive results]. 
34/43
EMEA 2005 
 
• 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Pooled analysis has been performed for the main pivotal clinical studies. 
Dose 
Placebo (1002 &1041) 
Darifenacin 7.5mg od 
Placebo (1002, 1001 &1041) 
Darifenacin 15mg od 
Placebo (1002 &1001) 
Darifenacin 30mg od 
Median 
baseline 
16.6 
16.0 
16.6 
16.9 
15.6 
18.5 
N 
271 
335 
384 
330 
221 
339 
Median 
change 
from 
baseline 
-7.0 
-8.8 
Median 
difference 
from 
placebo 
-- 
-2.0* 
-7.5 
-10.6 
-7.5 
-12.5 
-- 
-3.2* 
-- 
-5.0* 
95% CI 
-- 
(-3.6, -0.7) 
-- 
(-4.5, -2.0) 
-- 
(-6.6, -3.3) 
14.0 
Placebo (1047) 
Darifenacin 7.5mg(cid:198)15mg  
16.0 
SCE-Tables 2.1, Study A1371047: table 5.1.3. 
*The difference between darifenacin and placebo was statistically significant (p<0.05). 
FAS: Full Analysis Set. LOCF: Last observation carried forward. 
-- 
- 1.4* 
- 6.0 
- 8.2 
-- 
(- 2.9, -0.0) 
123 
261 
P value  
-- 
0.004 
-- 
<0.001 
-- 
<0.001 
-- 
0.035 
This pooled analysis clearly showed superiority of darifenacin 7.5 and 15 mg (and 30 mg which is not 
included in this application) od over placebo. 
• 
Supportive studies 
A  number  of  supportive  efficacy  trials  were  conducted.  These  included  2  Phase  3  flexible  dosing 
regimen  studies  (Studies  A1371011  and  A1371013)  and  a  number  of  efficacy  studies  (Studies  137-
312, 137-315 and 137-308). In addition 2 special studies evaluated the efficacy of darifenacin 30mg 
on  urgency  (Study  A1371019)  and  nocturia  (Study  A1371027).  The  two  showed  significant 
differences for the high dose of 30 mg. 
Two  long-term  studies  (A137  311  and  A137  1014)  have  been  conducted  for  52  and  40  weeks 
duration. Both showed maintained efficacy over time. 
• 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The Applicant has demonstrated an effect on the primary variable used for the pivotal studies (number 
of incontinence episodes per week). However, at the recommended doses, as with other antimuscarinic 
drugs,  the  size  of  the  effect  in  relation  to  placebo  is  rather  small,  and  casts  doubts  on  its  clinical 
significance.  Also,  with  some  definitions  of  “responder”  based  on  the  primary  variable,  the  number 
needed to treat can appear high for a symptomatic treatment. 
This is, however, a general concern on antimuscarinic drugs for the treatment of overactive bladder as 
further reflected in a systematic review published by Herbison et al. (BMJ; 326:841–7, 2003) where it 
is  concluded  that  the  “differences  between  anticholinergics  and  placebo  may  be  of  questionable 
clinical  significance”.  Several  products  have  been  recently  approved  both  via  the  centralised  and 
mutual recognition procedures. It was considered, therefore, important to know whether the effect of 
darifenacin,  at  its  proposed  dosage,  reaches,  at  least,  the  small  level  of  effectiveness  that  is  to  be 
expected from anticholinergics and whether this is done with a safety profile sufficiently reassuring so 
as to justify a near marginal therapeutic effect.  
The  Applicant  has  addressed  the  issue  of  clinical  relevance,  mainly  by  reanalysing  the  data  on  the 
King’s Health Questionnaire (KHQ) that was a secondary variable in the pivotal trials. The issue of 
the  validity  of  the  KHQ  can  now  be  considered  sufficiently  addressed  in  relation  to  the  parallelism 
observed between the improvements observed with it and those seen in the main variable. This would 
confirm  that  the  improvements  in  the  questionnaire  are,  indeed,  related  to  the  effect  of  the  drug  on 
incontinence  
35/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The dose of 30 mg (not to be marketed) is now excluded from the analysis. There is a dose response 
relationship  as  the  30  mg  results  confirmed:  (it  was  considerably  more  effective  but  rejected  for 
tolerability reasons). But it would appear that 7.5 and 15 mg are still in the low slope part of the dose 
response curve while 30 mg would be in the steep part and would have greater efficacy.  
It is however accepted that it is possible to increase on an individual basis 7.5 mg  up to 15 mg in case 
of non-response, as it is proposed by the Applicant. 
Little  comparative  data  has  been  obtained  during  the  development  of  darifenacin,  and  upon  CHMP 
request, new analyses on the relative effects of darifenacin and other anticholinergics were provided.  
There  is  only  a  pivotal  trial  (A1371001)  where  an  active  comparator  (tolterodine  2  mg  bid)  was 
included,  but  in  this  study,  only  darifenacin  30  mg  od  was  significantly  better  both  than  tolterodine 
and  placebo  and  neither  darifenacin  15  mg  nor  tolterodine  were  significantly  better  than  placebo. 
Tolterodine  itself was, also, apparently noneffective which casts doubts on the validity of the study. 
The  inconsistency  with  previous  studies  (where  15  mg  were  significantly  better  than  placebo)  is 
claimed to be due to the fact that a substantial part of the effect can be achieved with placebo 
A  further  Poisson  analysis  of  study  A137001  has  now  been  submitted.  Although  there  are  some 
uncertainties on the statistical plan for significance, the differences between darifenacin and placebo 
appear  to  be  statistically  significant.  However,  it  is  difficult  to  give  more  weight  to  a  study  after 
reanalysis. 
In order to further explore this issue, the Applicant has performed a comparison of Darifenacin with 
the  Herbison  meta-analysis  (Herbison  et al., 2003) an independently  conducted and published  meta-
analysis  on  anticholinergics  as  treatment  for  OAB,  where  trials  comparing  mean  daily  reduction  in 
incontinence  episodes  over  placebo  were  reviewed.  Some  indication  of  whether  the  effect  of 
darifenacin falls within what is expected from an anticholinergic drug is found in this comparison. It 
provides some evidence that the effect  of  darifenacin (at the 15 mg dose) is likely similar to that of 
other  marketed  anticholinergic  substances,  however  questionable  the  latter  may  be  in the opinion of 
the authors of the meta- analysis.  
The analysis in relation to perceived cure or improvement of symptoms in the case of darifenacin is of 
limited value given the use of the PPQT, a scale which has not been validated with drugs other than 
darifenacin.  The  results  calculated  by  the  Applicant  from  the  published  meta-analysis  and  for 
darifenacin  are  both  close  to  six  as  the  number  of  patients  needed  to  be  treated  for  one  patient 
reporting perceived cure or improvement in symptoms over placebo. This appears rather high, but not 
only for darifenacin.  
Scores  in  the  KHQ  or  different  definitions  of  responder  based  on  improvement  in  symptoms  were 
considered as the basis for further analyses; the usefulness of comparing published results is limited 
because of the different definitions of responders and ways of assessing used in several of the trials. 
Darifenacin data, however appear to fit within those extremely variable profiles of other drugs.  
As  a  conclusion,  although  demonstrative  face-to-face  comparisons  are  still  lacking,  the  recent 
availability  of  an  independently  conducted  and  published  meta-analysis  on  anticholinergics  as 
treatment for OAB has made it simpler to put in context the, obtained results with darifenacin.  
From  the  three  main  darifenacin  studies,  it  appears  that  darifenacin  fits  sufficiently  with  what  is 
expected from anticholinergics in general for OAB. 
The use of darifenacin in the elderly population was further discussed by the CHMP. Response in the 
elderly  in  terms  of  incontinence  episodes  seems  similar  to  that  in  the  other  age  groups,  although  it 
appears to be somewhat lower with 7.5 mg (making it likely that more patients in this age group will 
require up-titration to 15 mg) and it appears to translate less into a measurable improvement in quality 
of life. No specific cause for concern has been identified in relation to safety (see safety section). 
Clinical safety 
The clinical development program for darifenacin in OAB began in 1991 using the immediate release 
(IR)  formulation.  The  IR  formulation  was  superseded  by  early  development  of  a  prolonged  release 
36/43
EMEA 2005 
 
(PR) formulation for once daily (od) dosing. The OAB Phase 3 program started in 1999 using only the 
PR formulation. Both formulations of darifenacin were also evaluated in the irritable bowel syndrome 
(IBS). 
The cut-off data for studies to be included in the integrated darifenacin database was 31 January 2003. 
The cut-off data for deaths and other serious adverse events (SAEs) was 09 February 2003. 
• 
Patient exposure 
The integrated darifenacin database includes a total of 7257 subjects treated with darifenacin derived 
from 95 clinical studies completed prior to the cut-off date of January 2003. 
Several safety data sets were defined:  
a) OAB fixed dose Phase 3 studies: This has been considered as the primary dataset. It includes data 
from the fixed dose placebo controlled Phase 3 studies, A1371001, A1371002 and A1371041.b) OAB 
placebo controlled studies.  
c) Phase 2/3 OAB/IBS studies: it contains a variety of formulations (IR, CR and iv) and indications 
(IBS, OAB, BPH and UUI). 
d)  Long  term  studies:  it  uses  data  from  the  uncontrolled  OAB  studies  137-311  and  A1371014,  and 
Study 137-359, a six month study in IBS subjects.  
A  number  of  studies  were  not  included  in  the  integrated  presentation  of  safety  data.  It  should  be 
clarified that no unexpected and/or serious adverse events were reported in them 
• 
Adverse events  
The  incidence  and  severity  of  the  common  treatment-emergent  (all  causality)  adverse  events  were 
assessed at the recommended therapeutic doses (7.5mg and 15mg) as well as the higher 30mg dose in 
three placebo controlled fixed dose OAB studies (A1371001, A1371002 and A1371041). 
Approximately  60%  of  the  patients  treated  with  the  doses  of  either  7.5mg  or  15mg  of  darifenacin 
experienced adverse drug reactions during Phase 3 clinical development. Most of these were mild or 
moderate and transient, and only a few of them resulted in discontinuation. 
In darifenacin treated subjects, the most common adverse events which occurred more frequently than 
placebo  were  dry  mouth,  constipation  and  dyspepsia.  This  finding  was  consistent  throughout  the 
development program. A dose relationship was seen with these common adverse events. 
The  majority  of  darifenacin  treated  subjects  who  reported  dry  mouth  and  constipation  did  so  within 
the first two weeks of starting treatment.  
Dry mouth 
Dry mouth is the adverse event most commonly reported as a consequence of antimuscarinic therapy. 
It was the most commonly reported adverse event in the darifenacin clinical program. It appeared in 
20.2% and 35% for the 7.5 and 15 mg dose, respectively vs. 8% in the placebo group. 
 Most of the patients required no treatment or other actions, and of those who did, half had a cleared 
outcome. Of the 7.5mg treated subjects, no patients discontinued due to dry mouth and of the 15mg 
treated subjects, only three patients (0.9%) discontinued due to dry mouth. Dry mouth is an annoying 
but no severe adverse reaction, and if patients are informed, this adverse reaction can be bore, either 
with or without treatment. 
37/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
Constipation 
Constipation  was  the  second  most  commonly  reported  adverse  event  in  the  darifenacin  clinical 
program.   
There  is  an  apparent  relationship  between  the  dose  of  darifenacin  and  the  incidence  of  constipation 
with frequencies of 14.8%, 21.3%, 38.8% for 7.5mg, 15mg and 30mg, respectively, compared to 5.4% 
in the placebo group. 
The  majority  of  darifenacin  treated  subjects  who  reported  constipation  did  so  within  the  first  two 
weeks of starting treatment. 
No serious complications have been caused by this adverse event, however possible problems cannot 
be excluded when the product is given to a larger population, which is not as closely followed as the 
study population. 
Only    2  patients  (0.6%)  discontinued  due  to  constipation  in  the  7.5mg  treatment  group,  and  only  
4 patients (1.2%) in the 15mg treated subjects 3 (0.9%) 
Dyspepsia 
Dyspepsia was the third most commonly reported adverse event in the darifenacin clinical program. 
The majority of darifenacin treated subjects who reported dyspepsia did so within the first two weeks 
of  starting  treatment.  Dyspepsia  in  2.7%,  8.4%,  15.7%  for  7.5mg,  15mg  and  30mg,  respectively, 
compared to 2.6% in the placebo group. 
The most frequent action for subjects who experienced mild dyspepsia was ‘no action’. 
Dyspepsia was considered an important adverse event, leading to a considerable amount of treatments 
(mostly antacid treatment) and discontinuations. Dyspepsia is not life threatening and most of the time 
treatment resulted in relief of this adverse effect. 
No  patients  discontinued  due  to  dyspepsia  in  the  7.5mg  treatment  group,  and  only  3  (0.9%)  of  the 
15mg treated subjects discontinued due to dyspepsia 
Others adverse events 
In the fixed dose OAB Phase 3 studies, occurrence of central nervous system adverse events was low 
for darifenacin and similar to placebo. A total of five cognitive function studies have been performed 
and similarly did not show changes vs placebo. 
The incidence of cardiovascular adverse events in the darifenacin group was low and  similar to that in 
the placebo group 
Data on QT interval on 1225 patients was examined.  In 964 darifenacin treated patients, there was no 
evidence that darifenacin caused a change in heart rate (mean difference from placebo = 0.1bpm) or a 
prolongation of the QTcF interval (mean difference from placebo = 0.3msec). Four out of 964 patients 
(0.4%)  on  darifenacin  had  a  >60msec  increase  in  QTcF  from  baseline  compared  with  one  out  of  
261  patients  (0.4%)  on  placebo.  Four  male  patients  had  maximum  on  treatment  QTcF  values  of 
>450msec,  although  an  underlying  conduction  defect  was  identified  at  baseline  for  all  cases.  
No  association  was  found  between  the  change  in  QTcF  from  baseline  and  darifenacin  free  plasma 
concentrations up to 26-fold the mean exposure seen with 15 mg. 
An additional cardiac safety study (DAR328 2302) was performed. This was a single centre, double 
blind, randomised, parallel group, placebo- and active-controlled (moxifloxacin), multiple-dose study 
in poor and extensive CYP2D6 substrate metabolisers. The objective of the study was to evaluate the 
effects of darifenacin on QTcF interval at steady-state concentrations (day 6 of treatment). A total of 
179  patients  were  included  in  the  study.  The  study  results  demonstrated  a  reassuring  cardiovascular 
safety  profile  for  darifenacin,  with  no  concerns  regarding  QT/QTc  prolongation  at  doses  up  to  
75 mg/day (5 times the maximum therapeutic dose). The trend profiles for change in QT/QTc interval 
with  increasing  drug  plasma  concentration  showed  no  increase  with  darifenacin.  The  mean  change 
from  baseline  in  QT  interval  and  QTcF  interval  was  not  significantly  different  from  placebo  either 
overall or at Tmax. 
38/43
EMEA 2005 
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Although the overall number of adverse events is rather high, the number of serious adverse events is 
low.  There  were  two  cases  of  atrioventricular  block  which  should  be  followed  in  the  future.  
Acute  urinary  retention  is  an  adverse  reaction  of  which  most  physicians  could  expect  when  treating 
patients with anti-muscarinic agents, and this does not seem to form a major problem for darifenacin. 
Nevertheless,  it  is  important  to  keep  this  possible  and  potentially  serious  adverse  reaction  in  mind.  
As  rare  adverse  events  may  only  be  detected  in  a  large  population,  they  should  be  followed  in  the 
post-marketing  phase  as  well,  although  so  far  no  events  of  this  type  were  considered  darifenacin-
related. 
Four deaths were recorded during the darifenacin clinical program: liver and pancreatic cancer, hepatic 
failure, urinary bladder carcinoma and suicide by hanging. None of the four deaths were considered 
causally related to darifenacin treatment. 
• 
Laboratory findings 
There were no detectable patterns in the nature or incidence of observed laboratory test abnormalities, 
which would indicate a specific effect of darifenacin on any particular organ system or laboratory test 
parameter.  These  data  do  not  indicate  a  concern  with  respect  to  the  effect  of  administration  of 
darifenacin on laboratory test parameters. 
• 
Safety in special populations 
Age: There were 207 patients aged ≥65 years compared with 464 patients aged <65 years treated with 
darifenacin  7.5mg  or  15mg  in  the  fixed  dose  Phase  3  OAB  studies  population.  There  was  little 
difference between patients aged <65 years and ≥ 65 years in either the incidence (59% cf. 62%) or the 
severity  (11%  severe  cf.  6%  severe)  of  overall  adverse  events  in  the  7.5mg/15mg  group.  This  is 
similar to the difference seen in the placebo group (48% cf. 51%). In addition, the discontinuation rate 
due to adverse events was  higher in the older age group (2% cf. 5%). 
Gender:  There  were  569  female  patients  compared  with  102  male  patients  treated  with  darifenacin 
7.5mg or 15mg in the fixed dose Phase 3 OAB studies population. The incidence of overall adverse 
events  was  a  little  higher  in  women  compared  with  men  (61%  cf.  53%),  although  there  was  little 
difference  in  the  severity  of  adverse  events  (10%  severe  cf.  7%  severe)  in  the  7.5mg/15mg  group. 
There  was  no  difference  in  the  discontinuation  rate  due  to  adverse  events  between  the  groups  
(3% cf. 4%). 
Race:  The  vast  majority  of  patients  in  the  darifenacin  development  program  were  Caucasian.  There 
were 644 Caucasian patients compared with 27 non-Caucasian patients treated with darifenacin 7.5mg 
or  15mg  in  the  fixed  dose  Phase  3  OAB  studies  population.  The  adverse  event  and  discontinuation 
data  were  examined  according  to  the  following  racial  groups:  Caucasian,  Black,  Asian  and  Other.  
The incidence of adverse events was similar between the Caucasian and non-Caucasian populations, 
although the number of subjects in the non-Caucasian population is small. 
CYP2D6  genotype:  All  patients  participating  in  Phase  3  studies  were  assessed  with  respect  to  their 
CYP2D6  genotype,  although  not  all  samples  were  processed  appropriately.  There  were  106  PM 
patients  compared  with  466  EM  patients  treated  with  darifenacin  7.5mg  or  15mg  in  the  fixed  dose 
Phase 3 OAB studies population. 
The incidence of overall adverse events was a little higher in EMs compared with PMs (61% cf. 52%), 
although  there  was  little  difference  in  the  severity  (8%  severe  cf.  9%  severe).  However,  the 
discontinuation rate due to adverse events was a little higher in PMs compared with EMs (3% cf. 1%).  
Renal  and  hepatic  impairment:  Darifenacin  has  been  administered  to  patients  with  either  renal  or 
hepatic impairment in two Phase 1 studies designed to assess the effect of these impairments on the 
pharmacokinetic  behavior  of  darifenacin.  No  difference  in  the  adverse  events  was  seen  between 
patients with normal renal function and mild, moderate or severe renal impairment. Similarly, patients 
39/43
EMEA 2005 
 
with normal hepatic function and mild or moderate hepatic impairment did not show any difference in 
the adverse event profile. 
• 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Darifenacin  is  mainly  cleared  by  hepatic  metabolism,  with  only  a  small  percentage  excreted 
unchanged  in  the  urine  following  oral  and  iv  administration.  Darifenacin  is  metabolised  by  the 
cytochrome P450 isoenzymes CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. 
The incidence and severity of adverse events was higher in both placebo and darifenacin patients that 
took  either  a  CYP3A4  or  CYP2D6  inhibitor  at  any  time  during  the  study  compared  with  the  whole 
population, although the results are difficult to interpret. Due to pharmacokinetic considerations, the 
concomitant  use  of  strong  CYP3A4  interactants  and  CYP2D6  interactants  with  narrow  therapeutic 
window is to be used with caution.  
• 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In  OAB  fixed  dose  Phase  3  studies,  1.2%,  5.1%  and  21.7%  of  the  subjects  discontinued  due  to 
treatment  related  adverse  events  in  the  7.5mg,  15mg  and  30mg  dose  group,  respectively.  
In  the  comparator  and  placebo  group,  7.6%  and  2.6%  of  the  subjects  discontinued  due  to  treatment 
related adverse events, respectively. The most common adverse events leading to discontinuation were 
dry mouth, constipation and dyspepsia. 
The  rates  of  discontinuation  for  all  treatment  related  reasons  were  similar  for  subjects  in  long  term 
studies and subjects treated with 30mg od darifenacin in fixed dose Phase 3 studies. The majority of 
subjects who discontinued did so in the first three months. Thereafter, the rates of discontinuation due 
to  adverse  events  were  low.  There  appeared  to  be  no  influence  of  age,  race,  gender  or  genotype  on 
discontinuations from long-term studies.  
•  Long term safety 
Additional  safety  data  was  provided  from  an  interim  analysis  of  study  A1371042  and  from  study 
DAR328 2302. Study 1042 is 2-year open-label with patients from two feeder studies, A1371041 and 
A1371047,  starting  treatment  at  a  dose  of  7.5  mg  with  the  option  to  dose-escalate  to  15  mg  after  
2  weeks  and  or  to  up-  or  down  escalate  at  every  follow-up  visit.  The  adverse  events  profile  during 
long-term treatment with darifenacin was evaluated by time of first onset in 3-month intervals in both 
populations, and the event rates were shown to decrease over time. The apparent adverse event rates 
decline in the long term was somewhat to be expected when the results are adjusted in relation of years 
of exposure and even more when the adverse events reported are chronic (patients tend to report them 
mainly at the beginning). There were no increased risk associated with long-term exposure to the 7.5 
mg  and  15  mg  doses  of  darifenacin  in  patients  who  have  reached  different  timepoints  along  the 
treatment period up to >15 months.  
Due to the low numbers of patients from 1 year, we can only conclude that darifenacin appears well 
tolerated in the long term only up to 12 months. No new adverse events were reported and the adverse 
events profile observed during long-term treatment was generally similar to what was previously seen 
in the OAB fixed dose phase 3 studies and all phase 2/3 OAB/IBS studies suggesting no increased risk 
associated with long-term darifenacin treatment. 
• 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Dry  mouth,  constipation,  dyspepsia  and  headache  were  the  four  most  common  all  causality  adverse 
events  reported  in  the  pivotal  clinical  trials.  In  study  A1371042,  the  incidence  of  the  four  most 
common adverse events was comparable that observed in the placebo group of the pooled OAB fixed 
dose phase 3 studies. 
With regard to the central nervous and cardiovascular system the safety profile is maintained in study 
1042 
40/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
No  new  types  of  adverse  events  were  seen  in  the  new  interim  analysis,  and  the  overall  all  causality 
adverse  events  rates  were  comparable  to  the  observed  in  phase  3  studies.  No  deaths  were  reported 
during this new analyzed period. However, given that the efficacy of darifenacin at the proposed doses 
seems comparable to current marketed antimuscarinics, a fully reassuring safety profile is requested. 
In this sense, the additional cardiac safety study (DAR328 2302) has been considered very relevant. 
The  CHMP  believes  that  the  study  population  is  rather  extensive  and  representative  of  the  target 
patient population. In summary, the safety profile appears comparable to that of other anti-muscarinic 
drugs. However, it is not known whether the selectivity for the M3 receptor translates into any clinical 
advantage when treating symptoms of overactive bladder syndrome.  
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  active  substance  and  product  are  defined  and  characterised  in  an  acceptable  way,  typical  for  a 
modified  release  tablet.  There  are  no  unresolved  quality  issues,  which  may  have  an  impact  on  the 
benefit/risk balance. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  preclinical  part  of  the  dossier  demonstrates  that  darifenacin  is  a  selective  antagonist  of  M3 
receptors of acetylcholine, and that it inhibits human bladder contraction at concentrations consistent 
with the human exposure during treatment at recommended doses 
Both  the  primary  and  secondary  pharmacology  of  darifenacin  have  been  well  characterised,  and 
adequate  pharmacological  studies  have  been  performed  to  elucidate  the  antimuscarinic  effects  of 
darifenacin both in vitro and in vivo test. 
The general pharmacology studies are appropriate to support the non-clinical pharmacology profile of 
darifenacin. Safety pharmacology studies have not given rise to any serious safety concern. Studies on 
cardiac repolarization, as well as in others systems and organs have been performed, and support the 
use of darifenacin in humans 
From the pharmacokinetic point of view mice, rats, rabbits and dogs were the most relevant species for 
non-clinical  efficacy  and  safety  studies,  and  were  exposed  to  darifenacin  in  relation  to  the  highest 
exposure  expected  in  the  clinical  situation.  The  non-clinical  pharmacokinetics  properties  for 
darifenacin  have  been  appropriately  described.  A  number  of  studies  concerning  the  absorption, 
distribution,  metabolism,  and  excretion  of  darifenacin  have  been  performed.  Darifenacin  showed 
extensive absorption by oral route, important first-pass effect, and extensive distribution. Metabolism 
occurs namely in the liver, involving CYP3A4 and CYP2D6. 
Overall,  the  toxicology  programme  did  not  raise  special  concern.  Dog  was  chosen  as  non-rodent 
species  for  use  in  toxicology  programme.  The  observed  toxicity  is  in  part  consequence  of  its 
pharmacological activity on M3 receptors. Adequate genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies did not 
anticipate  any  potential  hazard  for  the  use  of  darifenacin  in  humans.  Although  darifenacin  had  no 
effect on fertility and no teratogenic action, and peri and post natal toxicity were observed at systemic 
exposure levels up to 11 times higher than the expected clinical exposure, the CHMP considered that 
darifenacin should not be recommended during pregnancy. 
41/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
Efficacy 
The  efficacy  of  darifenacin  in  the  treatment  of  overactive  bladder  (OAB)  have  been  studied  in  
3 double blind, randomised, placebo controlled parallel group, fixed dose Phase 3 studies of 12-week 
treatment duration (Studies A1371002, A1371041 and A1371001) and one placebo controlled upward 
dose titration study (A1371047) The study protocols of the 3 pivotal studies were similar and allowed 
a pooled analysis. 
The finally recommended dosage schedule is 7.5 mg once daily with optional up-titration to 15 mg. 
Dose selection was based on tolerability rather than on efficacy. Several doses were tested not only in 
the dose-finding phase 2 studies but also in phase 3 studies including “pivotal”. Phase 2 and 3 studies 
(including  pivotal)  were  consistent  in  finding  a  dose-response  relationship  on  most  variables, 
particularly on incontinence frequency. 
The  primary  objective  in  the  pivotal  studies  was  to  assess  the  clinical  efficacy  of  3  doses  of 
darifenacin on symptoms of OAB. The secondary objective was to evaluate the safety and tolerability 
of darifenacin, to evaluate the population pharmacokinetics of darifenacin and to evaluate the effect of 
darifenacin  on  quality  of  life  in  subjects  with  overactive  bladder.  Additionally  one  of  the  studies 
compared the efficacy of darifenacin with tolterodine. 
The  analysis  of  efficacy  relied  on  patient  daries  electronic  diaries  completion.  The  primary  efficacy 
outcome  was  the  frequency  of  incontinence  episodes  per  week  as  measured  after  12  weeks  of 
treatment. 
A  statistical  effect  on  the  primary  variable  used  for  the  pivotal  studies  was  shown.  However,  at  the 
recommended  doses,  the  size  of  the  effect  in  relation  to  placebo  is  rather  small,  and    the  clinical 
significance of the effect was thoroughly discussed at the CHMP. The lack of adequate results in the 
comparative study with tolterodine created also concern. The issue was discussed in written with the 
Applicant, and new post-hoc analyses on the relative effects of darifenacin and other anticholinergics 
were provided. The main data comes from a comparison of darifenacin with the published (Herbison) 
meta-analysis,  an  independently  conducted  meta-analysis  on  anticholinergics  for  treatment  of 
OAB.Darifenacin appears to fit sufficiently with what is expected from anticholinergics in general for 
OAB.  However,  the  clinical  relevance  of  the  demonstrated  effect  remains  weak,  even  with  this 
comparison, where the independent authors, question the marginal efficacy of anticholinergics for the 
treatment of this condition  
Safety 
The primary database for the evaluation of safety includes data from the three main placebo controlled 
studies. The incidence and severity of the common treatment-emergent (all causality) adverse events 
were  assessed  at  the  recommended  therapeutic  doses  (7.5mg  and  15mg)  as  well  as the higher 30mg 
dose  in  three  placebo  controlled  fixed  dose  OAB  studies.  The  most  common  adverse  events  that 
occurred more frequently than placebo were dry mouth, constipation and dyspepsia. 
Approximately  44%  of  the  patients  treated  with  the  doses  of  either  7.5mg  or  15mg  of  darifenacin 
experienced adverse drug reactions during Phase 3 clinical development. Most of these were mild or 
moderate and transient, and only a few of them resulted in discontinuation.  
Contrary to the rather high number of adverse events, ,  the number of serious adverse events is low. 
No  detectable  patterns  in  the  nature  or  incidence  of  observed  laboratory  test  abnormalities,  which 
would  indicate  a  specific  effect  of  darifenacin  on  any  particular  organ  system  or  laboratory  test 
parameter was found in the studies performed. 
Additional long term safety data were provided by the Applicant, and no new types of adverse events 
were seen, and all-causality adverse events rates were comparable to that observed in phase 3 studies. 
Reassurance  on  lack  of  QT  prolongation  susceptibility  has  been  provided  by  a  recent  specific  study 
involving an active control (moxiflocacin) 
In  conclusion,  the  study  population  analysed  for  safety  is  rather  extensive  and  representative  of  the 
target  patient  population.  The  safety  profile  appears  similar  to  that  of  other  anti-muscarinic  drugs. 
42/43
EMEA 2005 
 
Although it was expected, it is not known whether this selectivity for the M3 receptor translates into 
any clinical advantage when treating symptoms of overactive bladder syndrome.  
Benefit/risk assessment 
Following  evaluation  of  the  documentation  submitted  it  is  concluded  that  data  on  pharmaceutical 
quality of the medicinal product is considered acceptable. 
The nonclinical toxicology and safety pharmacology studies have not given rise to any serious safety 
concerns. 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  darifenacin  was  rather  extensively  studied  and  is  judged  to  be  sufficiently 
characterised. 
Overall, the clinical programme of darifenacin in the treatment of OAB showed statistically significant 
effect  in  the  pivotal  studies.  Although  the  clinical  relevance  of  the  effect  of  darifenacin  at  the 
recommended  dosage  was  questioned  by  the  CHMP  and  although  no  unequivocal  face  to  face 
comparisons are available, based on published evidence, it now appears likely that effect is not very 
different  from  that  of  other  anticholinergic  drugs  (also  questionable  according  to  the  literature) 
Although the response corresponding to the 15 mg dose appears very close to that of the proposed as 
initial 7.5 mg dose on some relevant variables, there is some difference on the primary variable and it 
may be useful for some patients to uptitrate to 15 mg depending on the response to 7.5 mg.  
The safety of darifenacin treatment in the intended population has been sufficiently documented in a 
fairly large number of patients, and the tolerability profile of darifenacin seems acceptable Therefore, 
taking all these considerations into account the CHMP was of the opinion that a positive benefit/risk 
can be concluded. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the benefit/risk ratio of EMSELEX in the treatment of symptomatic treatment of urge 
incontinence and/or increased urinary frequency and urgency as may occur in patients with overactive 
bladder  syndrome,  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing 
authorisation. 
43/43
EMEA 2005 
 
 
