EMA/273564/2013 
EMEA/H/C/000554 
EPAR summary for the public 
Emselex 
darifenacin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Emselex. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Emselex. 
What is Emselex? 
Emselex is a medicine that contains the active substance darifenacin. It is available as prolonged-
release tablets (7.5 mg and 15 mg). ‘Prolonged-release’ means that darifenacin is released slowly from 
the tablet over a few hours. 
What is Emselex used for? 
Emselex is used in adults with overactive bladder syndrome. It is used to treat the urge incontinence 
(sudden lack of control over urination), increased urinary frequency (need to urinate frequently) and 
urgency (sudden urge to pass urine) that are associated with the syndrome. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Emselex used? 
The recommended starting dose of Emselex is 7.5 mg once a day. For patients requiring greater 
symptom relief, the dose may be increased to 15 mg. The tablets should be swallowed whole with 
some liquid, and not chewed, divided or crushed. 
How does Emselex work? 
The active substance in Emselex, darifenacin, is an anticholinergic medicine. It blocks a receptor called 
the ‘muscarinic M3 receptor’. In the bladder, this causes the muscles that push urine out of the bladder 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
to relax. This leads to an increase in the capacity of the bladder and changes in the way the bladder 
contracts, resulting in fewer bladder contractions. This helps Emselex to prevent unwanted urination. 
How has Emselex been studied? 
Emselex has been studied in four main studies in a total of 2,078 male and female patients with 
symptoms of overactive bladder. Emselex was used at various doses (from 3.75 mg to 30 mg a day) 
and compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) or with tolterodine (another medicine used in this 
condition). The main measure of effectiveness was the change in the number of incontinence episodes 
per week. 
What benefit has Emselex shown during the studies? 
When the results from all four studies were combined, Emselex was more effective in reducing the 
number of incontinence episodes than placebo. At the start of the studies, the patients had around 16 
incontinence episodes per week. After 12 weeks of treatment, patients receiving Emselex 7.5 mg or 
15 mg had 8.8 (68%) or 10.6 (77%) fewer episodes of incontinence per week, respectively, and 
patients receiving placebo had 7 or 7.5 (54 or 58%) fewer episodes per week. 
What is the risk associated with Emselex? 
The most common side effects with Emselex (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are dry mouth and 
constipation. For the full list of all side effects reported with Emselex, see the package leaflet. 
Emselex must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to darifenacin or any of the other 
ingredients. It must not be used in patients with: 
•  urinary retention (difficulty passing urine); 
• 
gastric retention (when the stomach does not empty properly); 
•  uncontrolled narrow-angle glaucoma (increased eye pressure even with treatment); 
•  myasthenia gravis (a disease causing muscle weakness); 
• 
• 
• 
severe liver problems; 
severe ulcerative colitis (severe inflammation of the gut causing ulcers and bleeding); 
toxic megacolon (a very serious complication of colitis). 
Emselex must not be taken by patients who are also taking medicines that could affect the way that 
Emselex is broken down in the body, such as protease inhibitors (used to treat HIV infection, such as 
ritonavir), or ketoconazole or itraconazole (used to treat fungal infections). 
Why has Emselex been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that Emselex showed an effectiveness similar to that of other anticholinergic 
medicines used in overactive bladder syndrome. The Committee decided that Emselex’s benefits are 
greater than its risks and recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Emselex 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Emselex on 22 October 2004.  
Emselex  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
The full EPAR for Emselex can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Emselex, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 04-2013. 
Emselex  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
