SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Emtriva. For information 
on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Over the last few years, a decrease in the morbidity associated with AIDS and an increase in survival 
times  in  association  with  sustained  suppression  of  viral  replication  has  been  achieved  in  North 
America  and  Europe,  primarily because  of  the  use of  highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). 
Most commonly HAART consists of two nucleoside/nucleotide analogue inhibitors of HIV-1 reverse 
transcriptase (NRTIs), plus either one or two protease inhibitors (PIs) or a non-nucleoside inhibitor of 
reverse transcriptase (NNRTIs). The choice of the compounds depends on the status of the patient in 
terms  of  plasma  viral  load  (HIV  RNA),  CD4  cell  counts,  previous  treatment(s),  prior  relapse  and 
intolerance to treatment.  
The  long-term  use  of  all  these  products  is,  however,  limited  by  the  emergence  of  resistance,  by 
toxicity and by inconvenient dosing schedules or formulations. Further therapeutic agents are therefore 
clearly needed, particularly in patients who have failed therapy. 
Although there is currently not enough data to demonstrate the relative benefit of the many different 
dosage  regimens  it  is  reasonable  to  accept  that  a  reduced  number  of  daily  doses  along  with  a  small 
number of pills may meet the patient’s preference. 
Emtriva  is  a  new  NRTI,  which  contains  emtricitabine  as  the  active  substance,  which  is  available  in 
two formulations (200 mg hard capsules and 10 mg/ml oral solution) both intended to be used as a one 
daily dosage regimen. 
The approved indication is “ for the treatment of HIV-1 infected adults and children in combination 
with  other  antiretroviral  agents.  This  indication  is  based  on  studies  in  treatment-naïve  patients  and 
treatment-experienced  patients  with  stable  virological  control.  There  is  no  experience  of  the  use  of 
Emtriva in patients who are failing their current regimen or who have failed multiple regimens. 
When  deciding  on  a  new  regimen  for  patients  who  have  failed  an  antiretroviral  regimen,  careful 
consideration should be given to the patterns of mutations associated with different medicinal products 
and  the  treatment  history  of  the  individual  patient.  Where  available,  resistance  testing  may  be 
appropriate.” 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Hard capsule  
Emtriva is presented as hard capsules containing 200 mg of emtricitabine. 
The other ingredients include cellulose microcrystalline, crospovidone, povidone, magnesium stearate, 
hard gelatin capsule shell, indigotine (E132), titanium dioxide (E171) and printing ink. 
The capsules are packed either in a high density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle with an induction seal 
and a child resistant polypropylene cap or in polychlorotrifluoroethylene (PCTFE)/ polyethylene(PE)/ 
polyvinylchloride(PVC)/ aluminium blisters. 
Oral solution 
Emtriva is also formulated as an oral solution containing 10mg/ml of emtricitabine. 
The  other  ingredients  include  cotton  candy  flavouring,  disodium  edetate,  hydrochloric  acid,  methyl 
parahydroxybenzoate,  propylene  glycol,  propyl  parahydroxybenzoate,  sodium  hydroxide,  sodium 
phosphate monobasic monohydrate, sunset yellow (E110), purified water and xylitol. 
1/301 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  oral  solution  is  presented  in  a  multiple  use  polyethylene  terephthalate  (PET)  bottle  with  a 
polypropylene child resistant cap. A measuring cup is supplied.  
Active substance  
Emtricitabine is a novel nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor. It is a synthetic nucleoside analogue 
of cytosine. 
It is a white to off-white crystalline powder freely soluble in water. The active substance contains two 
chiral centres, and is produced as a single enantiomer. 
In  laboratory  studies  three  polymorphic  forms  I,  II  and  III  have  been  observed.  However,  only  the 
crystalline  form  I,  which  is  the  most  thermodynamically  stable,  has  been  produced  by  the  intended 
commercial process and used in non-clinical and clinical studies. 
Two  different  manufacturers  through  a  three-step  synthesis  using  a  stereoselective  reaction  and 
enzymatic chiral resolution prepare Emtricitabine.  
Satisfactory viral safety data have been provided to support the use of the pig liver esterase. Testing 
for  potential  adventitious  viruses  as  well  as  originating  species  are  part  of  the  specification  of  this 
reagent. Moreover, the viral validation study performed using relevant model viruses demonstrates its 
capacity to inactivate and/or remove potentially contaminating viruses.  
The  final  purification  step  is  carried  out  by  crystallisation  from  isopropyl  acetate.  Following 
crystallisation, the product is washed, dried and milled. 
Satisfactory  specification  and  associated  methods  have  been  provided  for  the  starting  materials,  key 
intermediates, reagents and solvents.  
Active substance specification 
The  active  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance,  clarity  and  colour  in  solution 
(Ph Eur), identity (IR and chiral HPLC), assay (HPLC, 98,0% - 102.0%), stereochemical purity (chiral 
HPLC),  related  substances  (HPLC),  residual  solvents  (GC),  water  content  (Ph  Eur),  heavy  metals 
(Ph Eur), sulphated ash (Ph Eur) and particle size.  
Specification  limits  have  been  adequately  justified  by  analytical,  stability  and  toxicity  data.  Particle 
size  is  part  of  the  specification,  but  is  not  expected  to  be  a  critical  parameter  with  regards  to  the 
bioavailability  of the capsule, taking into account the high water solubility and high  permeability of 
the active substance. The analytical methods used in routine controls have been suitably described and 
validated. 
Batch analysis data for batches manufactured by the commercial route have been provided for the two 
synthesis sites (n=12 and n=5) and confirm satisfactory compliance and uniformity with the proposed 
specification.  
Stability 
Four  batches  synthesised  at  one  synthesis  site  only  have  been  studied  under  long-term  conditions 
(25°C/60%RH  -  samples  packed  in  two  black  antistatic  bags  placed  into  tightly  closed  HDPE 
container).  24-month  data  are  available  for  one  batch  and  18-month  data  are  available  for  the  three 
other batches. Accelerated stability studies (40°C/75%RH) were performed over a 6-month period. 
A photostability study was also performed and showed that the active substance is not light sensitive. 
The results obtained support the proposed retest period when stored in two black antistatic bags placed 
into tightly closed HDPE container. 
Other ingredients 
Hard capsule  
All the excipients comply with the Ph Eur requirements. The in-house specifications presented for the 
capsule shell, indigotine and the printing ink are satisfactory. 
Regarding the TSE risk, satisfactory certificates of suitability have been provided for the magnesium 
stearate  and  the  gelatin  capsule  shell.  The  potential  conventional  virus  risk  associated  with  the  pig 
liver esterase used in the synthesis of the active substance has been satisfactorily addressed (see active 
2/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
substance).  Satisfactory  specifications  have  been  provided  for 
PCTFE/PE/PVC/aluminium blister. 
the  HDPE  bottle  and 
the 
Oral solution  
All the excipients comply with the Ph Eur requirements. The in-house specifications presented for the 
cotton  candy  flavouring,  sodium  phosphate  monobasic  monohydrate  and  sunset  yellow  (E110)  are 
satisfactory. 
Regarding  the  TSE  risk,  the  oral  solution  does  not  include  any  components  of  ruminant  origin.  The 
potential  conventional  virus  risk  associated  with  the  pig  liver  esterase  used  in  the  synthesis  of  the 
active substance has been satisfactorily addressed (see active substance).  
The polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottle and the polypropylene child resistant cap are adequately 
controlled. 
Product development and finished product 
Hard capsule  
This  oral  dosage  form  is  of  standard  formulation  and  has  been  developed  to  release  the  active 
substance rapidly prior to absorption.  
The  initial  capsule  formulations  (prototype  25  mg,  prototype  100  mg  and  formulation  “C”  100  mg) 
were prepared by simple direct blend process. Later on, a wet granulation process (formulation “B” or 
commercial formulation) was developed and chosen over direct blend in order to achieve the required 
density and flow properties for the powder blend to allow manufacture on an automated capsule filler. 
Water content of the granules, density and particle size distribution have shown to have no significant 
effect on capsule in-vitro dissolution and content uniformity.  
All the excipients selected are commonly used. The function of each excipient and the rationale for its 
use has been satisfactorily described.  
Bioequivalence  has  been  demonstrated  between  the  formulation  used  in  clinical  trials  and  the 
formulation intended for market. 
The manufacturing process involves standard pharmaceutical unit operations: preblending, high shear 
wet granulation, drying, milling, final blending, encapsulation and packaging.  
Validation data have been provided for six batches including one production-scale batch. Satisfactory 
in-process controls have been established. 
The  product  specification  include  tests  for  appearance,  identity  (HPLC,  TLC),  assay  (95.0-105.0% 
release  and  92.0-105.0%  shelf  life),  water  content,  impurity  content,  content  uniformity  (Ph  Eur), 
dissolution, and microbial quality (Ph Eur). 
Batch analysis data presented for 16 batches used in clinical studies comply with the specification and 
confirm the robustness and reproducibility of the manufacturing process.  
Long  term  and  accelerated  stability  studies  have  been  conducted  on  three  primary  stability  batches. 
24-month  data  are  available  for  one  batch  and  18-month  data  for  the  two  others  under  long-term 
conditions  (25°C/60%RH  -  bottle  and  blister  intended  for  commercialisation).  Studies  under 
accelerated  conditions  (40ºC/75%RH  –  packaging  intended  for  commercialisation)  have  been 
performed over a 6-month duration. 18-month data are available for 2 batches packed in blister and 1 
batch packed in bottle under intermediate conditions (30ºC/60%RH). 
A photostability study has also been performed and shows that the product is not light sensitive. 
The results presented support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions defined in the Summary of 
Product Characteristics. 
Oral solution 
This  formulation  was  mainly  designed  for  children  and  adolescents  who  have  difficulties  in 
swallowing.  Its  development  was  facilitated  by  the  high  intrinsic  aqueous  solubility  of  the  active 
substance.  
3/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The main issue to be dealt with during development was the pH-induced degradation of emtricitabine, 
most stable at pH 7.2, and that of the preservative system selected (methyl parahydroxybenzoate and 
propyl parahydroxybenzoate), more stable at lower pH. A satisfactory balance between the stability of 
these  three  components  was  achieved  at  pH  7.2  under  refrigeration.  A  phosphate  buffer  system  was 
incorporated  to  maintain  the  pH  over  the  shelf  life  of  the  product.  Antimicrobial  efficacy  of  the 
preservative system has been demonstrated according to Ph Eur.  
As many oral liquid formulations for paediatric population, it was preferred to be sugar-free, alcohol-
free, with a flavour and sweetness consistent with general preferences of children. Xylitol was selected 
over sorbitol as sweetening agent, because of its lower laxative effect. The colour of the solution being 
variable, the inclusion of sunset yellow is justified on grounds of product consistency.  
A  bioavailability  study  was  performed  to  compare  the  hard  capsule  and  the  oral  solution.  Under 
fasting  conditions,  the  absolute  bioavailability  of  the  proposed  commercial  capsule  formulation 
containing  200  mg  of  emtricitabine  was  estimated  to  be  93%,  whereas  that  of  the  oral  solution 
containing 10 mg/ml of emtricitabine was 75%, giving a relative bioavailability of the capsule vs oral 
solution of  124%. This result is not in line with the known effect of solid  vs liquid formulation; the 
reason for it remains unknown.  
The  method  of  manufacture  can  be  divided  into  8  operations:  dissolution  of  the  cotton  candy 
flavouring  and  parabens  in  propylene  glycol,  addition  of  this  solution  to  purified  water  containing 
xylitol,  sequential  addition  of  the  other  excipients,  pH  adjustment,  filtration,  de-aeration,  filling  and 
packaging.  Based  on  validation  data  demonstrating  chemical  stability  of  the  bulk  solution,  a 
satisfactory holding time and conditions has been defined. 
Validation data have been provided for three production-scale batches. 
The  product  specification  include  tests  for  appearance,  identity  (HPLC,  TLC),  assay  (95.0-105.0% 
release  and  92.0-105.0%  shelf  life),  assay  of  methyl  parahydroxybenzoate,  assay  of  propyl 
parahydroxybenzoate,  assay  of  EDTA,  impurity  content,  pH,  deliverable  volume  and  microbial 
quality. 
Batch analysis data presented for 5 batches used in clinical studies comply with the specification and 
confirm the robustness and the reproducibility of the manufacturing process. 
Long  term  and  accelerated  stability  studies  were  conducted  on  three  commercial  batches.  18-month 
data are available for two batches  and  12-month data for the third  batch  under long-term conditions 
(5ºC – packaging intended for commercialisation). Studies under accelerated conditions (25ºC/40%RH 
–  packaging  intended  for  commercialisation)  have  been  performed  over  a  6-month  duration.  A 
photostability  study  has  also  been  performed.  Thermal  cycling  study  (cycling  between  -15ºC  and 
40ºC/15%RH for 12 days) and a “material move study” (3 months at 5ºC move to 25ºC/40ºC for 2-4 
months) have also been performed. 
Antimicrobial efficacy of the preservative system has been demonstrated at the end of shelf life. 
The results presented support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions defined in the Summary of 
Product Characteristics. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Mechanism of action 
Emtricitabine  is  the  (-)  enantiomer  of  a  dideoxy  analogue  of  cytidine,  a  pyrimidine  nucleoside, 
structurally related to lamivudine. It is a potent and selective inhibitor of HIV-1 RNA-dependent DNA 
polymerase (reverse transcriptase). Emtricitabine is sequentially phosphorylated intracellularly to the 
5’-monophosphate  by  cellular  deoxycytidine  kinases,  to  the  5’-diphosphate  by  deoxycytidine 
monophosphate kinase, and then to the 5’-triphosphate, most likely by the 3’-phosphoglyceride kinase. 
The  antiviral  properties  of  emtricitabine  5’-triphosphate  result  from  competitive  inhibition  of  the 
incorporation  of  2’-deoxycytidine  5’-triphosphate  by  the  HIV  reverse  transcriptase.  Because  the  5’-
4/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
triphosphate of emtricitabine does not contain a 3’-hydroxyl group, its incorporation into nascent viral 
DNA by HIV reverse transcriptase results in chain termination, and consequently to inhibition of viral 
replication.  
Emtricitabine 5’-triphosphate has a  high selectivity for inhibition of RNA-dependent DNA activities 
of  HIV-RT.  It  is  a  weak  inhibitor  of  human  DNA  polymerase  α,  β,  γ  and  ε.  The  Ki  value  (0.17  ± 
0.03 µM)  for  HIV-1  reverse  transcriptase  is  35-,  100-,  35-,  and  882-fold  less  than  the  Ki  values 
measured for cellular DNA polymerases α, β, γ and ε respectively. 
• 
In-vitro studies  
Emtricitabine has been shown to be specific for HIV-1, HIV-2 and HBV.  
Studies in established human T-cell lines and peripheral blood mononuclear cells have demonstrated 
that  emtricitabine  was  active  against  laboratory  and  clinical  isolates  of  HIV-1,  including  virus  with 
reduced  sensitivity  to  other  nucleoside  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors.  The  concentration  of 
emtricitabine  required  to  inhibit  50%  of  the  viral  replication  (EC50  values)  of  laboratory  adapted 
strains  of  HIV-1  and  HIV-2  ranged  from  0.0013  to  0.5  µM  and  0.08  to  1.5  µM,  respectively, 
depending on cell type and virus strain used in the assay. With clinical isolates of HIV-1, EC50 values 
ranged  from  0.002  to  0.028  µM.  EC50  values  were  comparable  for  all  subtypes  of  HIV-1  tested. 
Addition of human serum or human serum plus alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (AAG) (1 mg/ml) did not 
alter  the  EC50  value.  Increasing  the  multiplicity  of  infection  caused  a  modest  change  in  the  EC50 
values. 
Compared to other nucleoside analogues, emtricitabine showed greater in-vitro anti-HIV activity than 
lamivudine, with a difference of sensitivity ranging from 3 to 11 fold, as well as zalcitabine, stavudine, 
abacavir and didanosine.  
• 
In-vivo studies  
The  in-vivo  antiviral  activity  of  emtricitabine  has  been  described  in  the  published  literature.  Severe 
combined  immunodeficient  (SCID)  mice  were  reconstituted  with  human  PBMCs  and  subsequently 
infected with HIV-1A018. Emtricitabine (30 mg/kg b.i.d. given i.p.) completely inhibited viral infection. 
In  a  separate  study,  using  the  same  mouse  model  infected  with  HIV-1A018,  both  emtricitabine  and 
lamivudine at oral dose levels of about 60 mg/kg/day for 7 days reduced viral loads to a similar extent. 
• 
Viral resistance 
The emergence of viruses resistant to emtricitabine has been examined in vitro by serial passage of the 
virus  in  humans  PBMCs  in  the  presence  of  increasing  emtricitabine  concentrations.  Resistance  to 
emtricitabine  developed  more  slowly  than  resistance  to  lamivudine  under  similar  conditions.  After 
week  5  of  passaging,  emtricitabine  retained  up  to  10-fold  potency  over  lamivudine.  Resistance 
developed as the result of base changes at codon 184 causing the methionine to be changed to a valine 
(M184V). An isoleucine intermediate has also been observed. The mutant virus was highly resistant to 
emtricitabine  and  lamivudine  (x  100  fold  increase  in  EC50  values)  and  slightly  less  sensitive  to 
inhibition by didanosine and zalcitabine (3-fold increase in EC50 values). Conversely, viruses resistant 
to  zidovudine,  zalcitabine,  didanosine,  and  NNRTI  retained  their  sensitivity  to  emtricitabine  
(EC50 values = 0.002 µM to 0.08 µM).  
• 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
Potential interaction between emtricitabine and other NRTIs that are converted to active substance via 
intracellular phosphorylation has  not been directly evaluated, however emtricitabine showed in vitro 
additive to synergistic effects in combination with all NRTIs tested. The same was observed with PIs 
and NNRTIs tested.  
5/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
General and safety pharmacology programme 
A comprehensive range of safety pharmacology studies revealed no treatment-related adverse effects 
on any organ system at systemic exposure levels much higher than those anticipated in patients at the 
recommended clinical dose (10 to more than 50 fold). No effects on the cardiovascular system have 
been  reported  in  anaesthetised  dogs  given  a  cumulative  dose  of  38.5  mg/kg  emtricitabine 
intravenously over 1 hour period. In addition, there were no abnormalities reported on the ECGs data 
obtained from the repeated dose toxicity studies in monkeys, where AUC exposures were up to 26 fold 
higher than in humans given 200 mg dose. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  profile  of  emtricitabine  was  evaluated  in  the  mouse,  rat  and  cynomolgus 
monkey, along with additional published literature. Doses were administered both by oral gavage and 
i.v.  in  each  study  to  enable  comparison  of  absolute  and  relative  bioavailability.  Only  single  dose 
pharmacokinetics  studies  have  been  conducted.  Toxicokinetic  data  were  derived  from  selected 
repeated  dose  toxicity  studies.  Emtricitabine  levels  in  plasma  were  measured  by  LC/MS.  All  the 
pharmacokinetic studies, except for data from the published literature, were conducted in accordance 
to Good Laboratory Practices. 
Absorption and distribution 
Emtricitabine  was  rapidly  and  extensively  absorbed  in  mice,  rats  and  cynomolgus  monkeys  after 
single oral doses ranging from 10 to 600 mg/kg. Oral bioavailability in the three species ranged from 
58 % to 97 % and peak plasma levels was reached between 0.5 and 2.5 hours after dosing. Cmax values 
ranged from 2.4 to 139 µg/ml and were generally 6 to 10-fold lower than the peak concentrations after 
comparable  i.v.  doses.  Cmax  and  AUC  values  increased  nearly  proportionally  with  the  dose  over  the 
range 10 to 600 mg/kg. There was a trend towards slower and less extensive absorption at the highest 
dose  levels,  however  these  represent  multiples  of  the  proposed  human  dose  (approximately 
2-4 mg/kg).  Some  variability  was  observed  in  the  rate  and  extent  of  oral  bioavailability  between 
species,  dose  levels  and  fed  versus  fasted  animals.  Since  emtricitabine  was  not  extensively 
metabolised in these species, its incomplete bioavailability is most likely due to incomplete absorption 
rather than to significant first-pass metabolism. 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  emtricitabine  after  repeated  doses  administration  was  similar  to  that 
after single dose administration and there was no sign of accumulation. 
Emtricitabine  was  widely  distributed  in  the  body  of  the  three  species.  After  oral  administration,  the 
greatest concentrations were found in the gastrointestinal tract and kidneys, which is consistent with 
its absorption and elimination via these tissues, but also in the liver. The volumes of distribution were 
high  and  similar  across  species  (Vdss  0.8  –  1.5  l/kg  after  i.v.  administration)  showing  the  marginal 
dose-dependency over a wide range of doses (10-600 mg/kg). Vdss was slightly larger than total body 
water in all species, suggesting that emtricitabine was distributed to both intra-and extra-cellular fluid 
spaces.  Binding  of  emtricitabine  to  plasma  proteins  was  low  (4%)  in  all  the  species  studied  over  a 
wide  range  of  concentrations.  Emtricitabine  did  not  bind  to  melanin.  Emtricitabine  showed  limited 
penetration  to  central  nervous  system  with  levels  reaching  5  to  10%  those  in  the  plasma.  Studies  in 
pregnant  mice  and  rabbits  demonstrated 
the  placenta  barrier. 
Foetal/maternal exposure ratios were about 0.4 in both species. 
that  emtricitabine  crossed 
Chiral conversion of emtricitabine in plasma has not been evaluated however it has been shown that 
this is unlikely to occur in humans, and in the event it occurred it would be of no clinical significance. 
Metabolism and elimination 
Emtricitabine  was  nearly  completely  eliminated  72  hours  after  dosing  with  no  sign  of  tissue 
accumulation.  
6/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After oral administration in mice and rats, an average of 67-79 % of the dose was excreted in the urine 
mainly as unchanged parent compound (about 90 %). In monkeys an average of 40 % of the dose was 
excreted  in  the  urine,  with  64  %  as  unchanged  parent  compound.  In  the  3  species  metabolism 
accounted for only a minor proportion (<10%) of emtricitabine elimination.  
The metabolites appeared to be almost exclusively cleared by renal excretion since only trace (<1% of 
the  applied  dose)  were  found  in  faeces.  Metabolism  was  similar  across  species  and  the  principal 
metabolite identified was a 3’-sulfoxide diastereomers, accounting for approximately 2% of the dose 
in  mice, 2.6% in rats  and 6-11% in  monkeys. Seven other  metabolites were detected  in the urine  of 
rats  and  two  others  in  cynomolgus  monkeys,  none  accounting  for  more  than  2%  of  the  dose.  These 
minor  metabolites  may  include  a  diastereomeric  3’-sulfoxide,  a  glucuronide  conjugate,  and 
deaminated metabolites. The enzymatic system responsible for the formation of 3’-sulfoxides has not 
been  identified,  however  considering  that  metabolism  is  only  a  minor  elimination  pathway  for 
emtricitabine, any metabolic interactions with co-administered substances are considered unlikely.  
The  total  body  clearance  of  emtricitabine  exceeds  the  glomerular  filtration  rate,  indicating  that  it  is 
actively secreted by renal tubules into the urine.  
Toxicology 
The  toxicological  programme  included  single-dose  studies  (mice  and  rats),  repeated-dose  toxicity 
studies (mice, rats and cynomolgus monkeys), reproductive and developmental toxicity studies (mice, 
rats and rabbits), genotoxicity, cytotoxicity and immunotoxicity. Carcinogenicity studies in mice and 
rats are ongoing. 
All toxicology studies were performed with emtricitabine free base, which was administered in either 
distilled water or 0.9% saline or 0.5% methylcellulose. All toxicity studies used the intended clinical 
route (oral) of administration except two i.v. single dose studies.  
The main toxicity studies were conducted in accordance to Good Laboratory Practices.  
Single dose toxicity 
Single dose toxicity studies were conducted in mice and rats, using oral dose levels ranging from 1050 
to 4000  mg/kg and i.v. dose levels ranging from 200 to  700  mg/kg. These were the highest feasible 
dose levels based on solubility of emtricitabine in vehicle and maximum tolerated volume which could 
be administered. There were neither deaths nor any overt signs of toxicity observed at any of the doses 
tested. 
Repeated dose toxicity 
Repeated-dose toxicity studies were conducted in mice (2 weeks, 1 and 6 months), rats (3 months) and 
cynomolgus monkeys (1, 3 months and 1 year) using oral doses ranging from 120 to 3000 mg/kg/day. 
Overall,  emtricitabine  was  well  tolerated  at  systemic  exposure  levels  higher  than  those  expected  in 
humans  at  the  clinical  dose.  Treatment  related  effects  were  limited  to  high  dose  groups  only  and 
primarily consisted of changes in the red blood cell parameters. These changes which were reported in 
mice, rats and monkeys (only in 1 year study) were interpreted as mild regenerative anaemia. 
Other effects were changes in various organ weights in rodents (pituitary, ovary, thyroid, parathyroid, 
testes, thymus, spleen and kidney) without any obvious pattern across species or dose level and with 
no concomitant histopathological changes (1 and 6 months in mice and 3 months in rats). There was 
increased urine volume in mice (6 months) without any concomitant histopathological renal changes 
and  soft  faeces  in  the  monkey  (1  month  and  3  months).  In  several  cases  the  effects  observed  were 
reversible after a treatment free recovery period. The lowest NOELs for the longest treatment period 
in  each  species  were  500  mg/kg/day  in  mice  (6  months),  600  mg/kg/day  in  rats  (3  months)  and 
200 mg/kg/day in  monkey (1 year). These doses  gave  AUCs  corresponding to  34-,  33- and 10-  fold 
human AUC (9.60 hr•µg/ml) respectively at the recommended clinical dose of 200 mg once-daily. 
7/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Genotoxicity 
Emtricitabine was neither genotoxic in two separate bacterial reverse mutation assays (S. typhimurium 
and E. coli strains with and without metabolic activation with rat liver S9 fraction) nor in an in-vitro 
mouse  lymphoma  assay  with  concentration  up  to  5000  µg/ml,  in  contrast  to  other  NRTIs. 
Emtricitabine was not clastogenic in an oral mouse micronucleus assay conducted at dose levels up to 
2000 mg/kg. 
Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity  studies  in  the  mouse  and  rat  are  ongoing  using  a  high  dose  level  providing  AUC 
exposures 25 times human exposures at the clinical dose. The CPMP considered the justification from 
the applicant to submit the application without final results of carcinogenicity studies. In view of the 
good  safety profile  as  demonstrated  in  preclinical  tests,  the  lack  of  signals  for  concern  (for  instance 
lack  of  neoplastic  or  pre-neoplastic  lesions  in  chronic  toxicity  studies,  lack  of  genotoxicity  both 
in vitro and in vivo, lack of immunotoxicity), and the therapeutic indication, the CPMP considered that 
the lack of final results should not preclude the granting for a marketing authorization. The applicant 
however  undertook  to  provide  these  final  as  part  of  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-
authorisation. 
Reproductive toxicity 
Fertility studies in mice and rats did not reveal any treatment-related adverse effects on reproductive 
function. The NOELs were > 1000 mg/kg/day in mice and 750 mg in rats respectively.  
There was no evidence of embryo-foetal toxicity in the mouse study and the NOEL for systemic and 
developmental  toxicity  was  1000  mg/kg/dose.  In  rabbits,  reversible  treatment-related  effects  on 
maternal  body  weight  were  observed  at  300  mg/kg/day  and  decreased  defecation  was  observed  at 
1000 mg/kg/day. The NOEL in pregnant rabbits for maternotoxicity was 100 mg/kg/day.  
A pPre and post-natal toxicity study in mice revealed no treatment related effects. The only effect in 
F1 dams originating from 1000 mg/kg/day F0 dams was a slightly longer oestrus cycle (average 4.9 
days  as  compared  to  4.3  days  for  control).  Although  statistically  significant  (p<  0.001)  this  was 
considered of limited clinical relevance. A NOEL of 500 mg/kg was established in this study. 
Other toxicities 
An immunotoxicity study was conducted and there was no effect on the immune system as evaluated 
by  IgM  antibody  response  in  the  rat  to  sheep  red  blood  cells  with  doses  up  to  1000  mg/kg/day 
corresponding to human exposure of approximately 48-fold at the recommended dose. 
Emtricitabine  was  not  cytotoxic  to  various  human  lymphocytic  and  monocytic  cell  lines  or 
hepatocytes at concentrations much greater than the human Cmax at the recommended dose (more than 
20  fold).  Emtricitabine  was  much  less  toxic  to  human  bone  marrow  progenitor  cells  than  two 
comparators (zidovudine and 2’CDG) and was of comparable toxicity to lamivudine. The CC50 (50% 
cytotoxic concentration) of emtricitabine for human erythroid and granulocyte/macrophage precursor 
cells  was  much  lower  than  the  anticipated  peak  human  exposure  (Cmax)  of  around  2  µg/ml  at  the 
200 mg daily dose, thus the data may suggest a low potential for emtricitabine to produce effects on 
bone marrow at the low exposures required to treat HIV infection.  
Considering  the  variable  ability  of  NRTIs  to  inhibit  the  DNA  polymerase  gamma  (Pol  γ),  which  is 
responsible  for  replication  of  mitochondrial  DNA  (mt  DNA),  resulting  in  mtDNA  depletion  and 
leading to organelle dysfunction, the mitochondrial toxicity of emtricitabine was evaluated.  
Emtricitabine did not reduce the ratio of mitochondrial to cellular DNA in Molt-4 cells nor cause cell 
death at concentrations up to 100 µM after 7 days continuous exposure. Emtricitabine did not affect 
mitochondrial DNA content in human Hep G2 and MT2 cells. Emtricitabine also produced no signs of 
mitochondrial  toxicity  in  liver,  heart  or  skeletal  muscle  in  chronic  toxicity  studies  in  mice  and 
cynomolgus monkeys. Neurophysiological measurements performed in monkeys were normal after 1, 
8/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
3 and 12 months. There were no neurohistological lesions in a variety of CNS and PNS tissues at 3 
months treatment at 1000 mg/kg/day. 
Impurities 
Related  substances  in  emtricitabine  substance  have  been  toxicologically  qualified.  A  concern  was 
raised  however  with  respect  to  the  lack  of  justification  for  the  proposed  limit  for  the  primary 
degradation product (FTU)  in the finished  product  (0.8  % in  the  hard capsule and  1.0  % in the  oral 
solution).  Based  on  additional  toxicology  data,  including  the  negative  results  from  additional 
genotoxicity  studies  using  emtricitabine  sample  containing  FTU  1  %  (w/w)  (gene  mutation  and 
chromosomal  aberration),  and  analytical  data,  the  proposed  limits  were  considered  toxicologically 
justified. 
Environmental risk assessment 
An assessment of the risk was performed and no significant risk to the environment related to the use 
of emtricitabine is anticipated. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
The clinical development programme consisted of: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
studies  aiming  to  characterise  the  pharmacokinetics  of  emtricitabine  in  various  populations 
(healthy adults, HIV infected adults and children and patients with renal impairment)  
two  short  term  studies that evaluated  emtricitabine  monotherapy in  HIV-infected  subjects and 
explored various dose regimens 
three  phase  III  sponsored  studies  in  treatment-naïve  patients  and  treatment-experienced  adult 
patients  with  stable  virological  control.  There  were  also  supportive  data  from  several  other 
studies in adults.  
two  ongoing  studies  in  treatment-naïve  and  experienced  children  aged  from  4  months  to  < 18 
years. Data were provided for up to 24 weeks therapy during the assessment of the application. 
Children received either the oral solution or the capsules according to weight. 
Data  regarding  the  use  of  emtricitabine  in  treatment-experienced  patients  are  restricted  to  switching 
patients who were responding to their existing regimen to an emtricitabine-containing regimen. There 
are currently no data on the use of emtricitabine in patients who are failing their current therapy and 
patients who have failed multiple regimens. 
Data from completed studies in patients infected with HBV have been submitted to provide relevant 
information to the use of emtricitabine in patients who are co-infected with HIV and HBV. 
Over 2,000 HIV-infected patients have received emtricitabine in various clinical trials, of which more 
than 1,300 had been treated for at least 48 weeks and more than 600 had been treated for at least 96 
weeks.  
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Mechanism of action 
Emtricitabine  is  a  nucleoside  analogue  that  acts  as  an  inhibitor  of  HIV  reverse  transcriptase. 
Emtricitabine has been shown to be specific for HIV-1, HIV-2 and HBV. EC50 values for HIV-1 and 
HIV-2  are  from  0.0013  to  0.5  µM  and  0.08  to  1.5  µM,  respectively.  Concentrations  up  to  100  µM 
emtricitabine  had  no  effect  on  human  mitochondrial  function  and  morphology  and  emtricitabine  5’-
triphosphate  was  a  very  weak  inhibitor  of  human  DNA  polymerase  α,  β,  γ,  and  ε.  Additive  or 
synergistic activity was shown for emtricitabine in in-vitro combinations with a range of other NRTIs 
9/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
as well as with NNRTIs and HIV protease inhibitors (PIs). There is currently no clinical experience on 
the  use  of  emtricitabine  in  combination  with  cytidine  analogues  and  therefore  combination  therapy 
that includes either lamivudine or zalcitabine cannot be recommended.  
In  vivo,  an  association  was  found  between  virological  failure  during  emtricitabine  therapy  and  virus 
that has the M184V mutation. These viruses were shown to be phenotypically resistant to inhibition by 
emtricitabine  and  lamivudine  but  remained  sensitive  to  inhibition  by  didanosine,  zidovudine, 
stavudine, tenofovir, zalcitabine and abacavir (<3-fold change in EC50). Genotypic analyses have been 
performed in the main clinical studies, which are presented under the discussion of clinical efficacy.  
• 
Dynamic studies 
The  antiviral  effect  of  emtricitabine  and  its  relationship  to  the  dose  was  assessed  in  two  short-term, 
open label studies (FTC-101 and FTC-102) using emtricitabine monotherapy in HIV-infected subjects. 
These studies are further discussed under the section on dose-ranging studies. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of emtricitabine was determined in a series of phase I, phase I/II and phase III 
studies in various population: HIV-negative healthy volunteers, HIV-negative subjects with normal or 
impaired renal function, HIV-infected adults and HIV-infected children from 4 months of age.  
Emtricitabine concentrations in plasma, urine and other biological fluids have been determined using 
validated LC/MS methods. 
Absorption and distribution 
Emtricitabine  was  rapidly  and  extensively  absorbed  after  oral  administration  with  maximum  peak 
plasma concentrations reached within 1-2 hours after dosing in fasting state.  
In  fasting  and  non-fasting  HIV-infected  subjects,  Cmax  and  AUC  emtricitabine  increased  in  a  dose 
proportional fashion after single and  multiple doses  of 200  mg up to 1200 mg  daily. Cmax and AUC 
values  after  the  200  mg  dose  were  of  the  same  order  in  healthy  volunteers  and  in  HIV-infected 
subjects.  The  mean  trough  concentration  was  approximately  4-fold  higher  than  the  mean  IC90  for 
emtricitabine. 
Under fasting conditions, the absolute bioavailability of emtricitabine from the hard capsule (200 mg) 
was  estimated  to  be  93%  while  that  from  the  oral  solution  (10  mg/ml)  was  75%,  giving  a  relative 
bioavailability  of  the  capsule  versus  oral  solution  of  124%.  The  reasons  for  this  difference  in 
bioavailability are unknown.  
Administration of emtricitabine as 200 mg hard capsules with a high-fat meal did not affect systemic 
exposure  (AUC0-inf)  of  emtricitabine;  therefore,  Emtriva  200  mg  hard  capsules  may  be  administered 
with or without food. The  mean Cmax and AUC0-inf for the 200  mg capsule formulation administered 
with  a  high-fat  meal  were  decreased  by  approximately  29%  and  10%,  respectively,  compared  to 
administration  in  the  fasted  state.  In  addition,  mean  tmax  was  prolonged  by  approximately  by  1.5 
hours (1.1 to 2.6 hours). No study of the effect of food on absorption from the oral solution has been 
performed. However, pharmacokinetic data obtained in children showed that 6 mg/kg of emtricitabine 
administered daily as oral solution regardless of the food intake gave similar AUCs to those of adults 
after 200  mg daily as  capsules. Therefore, as  mentioned in  the  Summary  of Product Characteristics, 
emtricitabine  capsules  and  oral  solution  can  be  administered  with  or  without  food.  The  applicant 
however  undertook  to  conduct  a  study  to  evaluate  the  effect  of  food  on  absorption  of  emtricitabine 
from the oral solution, the results of which will be provided post-authorisation. 
The  steady  state  apparent  volume  of  distribution  of  emtricitabine  after  iv  administration  averaged 
109 l (1.4 l/kg) suggesting that emtricitabine is widely distributed to both the intra- and extra-cellular 
fluid  spaces.  The  mean  plasma  to  blood  concentration  ratio  was  about  1.0.  The  semen  to  plasma 
concentration ratio was about 4, suggesting good penetration. 
10/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Plasma protein  binding  of emtricitabine in vitro was less than  4% and was independent  of the dose. 
The intracellular half-life of emtricitabine 5’triphosphate was estimated to be > 39 hrs. Saturation of 
intracellular  levels  of  emtricitabine  5’-triphosphate  correlated  with  a  plateau  of  HIV-1  RNA 
suppression at 1.9 log10 at 200 mg per day.  
Metabolism and elimination 
The predominant radioactive component in plasma (almost all), urine (>82%) and faeces (almost all) 
was unchanged  14C-emtricitabine. Thus, metabolism appeared to be a minor elimination pathway for 
emtricitabine. Metabolism in humans is similar to that in the monkeys and involves:  
(1) oxidation of the thiol moiety to form the 3’-sulfoxide diastereomers M1 and M2 (9% of dose), with 
M2 being predominant 
(2) conjugation with glucuronic acid to form the 2’-O-glucuronide (M3) (4% of dose).  
In in-vitro studies using pooled human liver microsomes, emtricitabine was not an inhibitor for human 
CYP1A2,  2A6,  2B6,  2C9,  2C19,  2D6,  2E1  or  3A4/5.  One  minor  metabolite  of  emtricitabine  (about 
1%)  was  detected  in  cDNA-expressed  CYP  3A4  incubations  but  was  not  formed  by  any  other 
isoenzyme  investigated  (CYP  1A2,  2A6,  2B6,  2D6,  2E1,  2C8,  2C9  or  2C19).  Emtricitabine  did  not 
show  any  inhibitory  effect  on  UDP-GT  as  assessed  by  7-hydroxycoumarin  (a  substrate  of  many 
isoforms  of  UDP-GT)  glucuronidation.  No  glucuronidation  of  emtricitabine  was  observed  in  the 
presence  and  absence  of  an  NADPH-generating  system  and  uridine  5'-diphosphoglucuronic  acid 
(UDPGA). 
Approximately 69% of a 200 mg capsule dose and 55% of a 200 mg oral solution dose were recovered 
as  unchanged  drug  in  the  urine  over  48 hours,  with  most  recovered  during  the  first  12  hours.  CLR 
values for individual subjects were consistently greater than creatinine clearance values indicating net 
renal tubular secretion of emtricitabine. The plasma elimination half-life after 100 mg or 200 mg q.d. 
in HIV-infected subjects was approximately 10 hrs. 
Special populations  
Pooled data from single doses studies, which included 108 volunteers and 16 HIV infected subjects 
were used to assess the influence of demographic variables on the pharmacokinetics profile of 
emtricitabine. The mean AUC was higher in female subjects as compared to males, in subjects > 40 
years as compared to subjects ≤ 40 years of age, in subjects with a body weight ≤ 75 kg as compared 
to subjects with a body weight > 75 kg as well as in subjects with a body surface area ≤ 1.91 m2 as 
compared to subjects with a body surface area > 1.91 m2. However the magnitude of the difference in 
emtricitabine pharmacokinetics parameters was <20 % and most commonly <10 %, and therefore it 
was considered unlikely that these differences would be of clinical significance. 
No specific pharmacokinetics studies have been conducted in elderly patients. 
Renal insufficiency 
Pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  determined  following  administration  of  a  single  dose  of  200 mg 
emtricitabine to 30 non-HIV infected subjects with varying degrees of renal impairment according to 
baseline creatinine clearance. Groups were: > 80 ml/min as normal function; 50 – 80 ml/min as mild 
impairment; 30 – 49 ml/min as moderate impairment; < 30 ml/min as severe impairment; < 15 ml/min 
as functional anephric requiring haemodialysis. The mean emtricitabine exposure ± standard deviation 
increased from 11.8±2.9 µg.h/ml in subjects with normal renal impairment to 19.9±1.1, 25.0±5.7 and 
34.0±2.1  µg.h/ml  in  patients  with  mild,  moderate  and  severe  renal  impairment,  respectively.  In 
patients  with  ESRD  requiring  haemodialysis  approximately  30%  of  the  emtricitabine  dose  was 
recovered  in  dialysate  over  a  3-hour  dialysis  period  started  within  1.5 hours  of  emtricitabine  dosing 
(blood flow rate of 400 ml/min and a dialysate flow rate of approximately 600 ml/min). 
11/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  pharmacokinetic  modeling  and  simulations  of  multiple  dose  emtricitabine  plasma  levels  from  the 
single  dose  pharmacokinetics  supported  a  need  for  reductions  in  the  daily  dose  or  dose  interval 
adjustments  when  creatinine  clearance  falls  below  50  ml/min.  Although  persons  with  creatinine 
clearance  in  the  range  50-80  ml/min  will  have  slightly  higher  exposures  than  persons  with  normal 
renal function, it is not expected that this would have any major adverse effects on the safety profile of 
emtricitabine.  
For  the  200  mg  hard  capsule,  dose  interval  adjustments  have  been  recommended.  Alternatively, 
patients  with  creatinine  clearance  <  50  ml/min  may  receive  a  reduced  daily  dose  of  emtricitabine 
administered as the oral solution. In both cases, the Summary of Product Characteristics highlights the 
lack of clinical safety or efficacy data to support these recommendations.  
Hepatic insufficiency 
There  are  no  data  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment.  Since  emtricitabine  is  primarily  excreted  via 
renal route, no dosage adjustment is expected to be necessary.  
HIV-HBV co-infected patients 
Results from an open-label, dose escalation study in HBV patients with doses ranging from 25 mg to 
300 mg emtricitabine daily for 8 weeks suggested that 200 mg emtricitabine gives similar exposure to 
emtricitabine as in HIV-infected patients. 
Children 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  two  single  doses  of  emtricitabine  (administered  as  the  oral  solution; 
60 mg/m2  and  120  mg/m2  up  to  maximum  of  200  mg)  were  evaluated  in  an  open-label, 
non-randomised  study  in  HIV-1  infected  or  potentially  infected  (i.e.  born  to  HIV-infected  mothers) 
infants, children and adolescents aged from 4 months to < 18 years. Children were divided into in five 
cohorts by age at the time of the first dose. After 120 mg/m2 doses, AUC0-inf values were between 7.7 
and  8.4  µg.h/ml  which  was  similar  to  or  slightly  lower  than  the  median  AUC0-inf  or  AUC0-24  values 
following single  or  multiple  doses  of  200  mg emtricitabine as capsules in  adults. From these  data it 
was projected that 6 mg/kg dose administered as the oral solution would provide AUC values similar 
to  or  higher  than  those  following  the  120  mg/m2  dose  in  FTC-105.  This  6  mg/kg  dose  was  further 
evaluated in two studies in HIV-infected children (FTC-202 and 203) and pharmacokinetic data from 
these  patients  supported  the  recommendation  for  6  mg/kg  doses.  Taking  into  account  the  lower 
bioavailability  of  emtricitabine  from  the  oral  solution,  children  may  be  dosed  at  6  mg/kg/day  up  to 
240 mg daily as the solution. Alternatively, children who weigh at least 33 kg may choose to switch to 
the capsules at any time as recommended in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Interactions with other medicinal products 
Since emtricitabine was a poor substrate for the human cytochrome P450 system in vitro and lacked 
inhibitory activity for the major cytochrome P450 isoenzymes, clinically significant interactions that 
involve CYP isoenzymes are not expected. 
In  an  initial  single  dose  study  enrolling  a  small  number  of  healthy  volunteers  (n  =  6)  who  received 
emtricitabine  (200  mg)  co-administered  with  zidovudine  (300  mg),  the  apparent  clearance  of 
zidovudine decreased with a 1.26 fold (26 %) increase in AUC and 1.7-fold (65%) increase in Cmax. 
A  second  multiple  dose  three-way  cross  over  study  was  conducted  in  which  17  healthy  volunteers 
received 7 days of each of 200 mg emtricitabine q.d., 300 mg zidovudine b.i.d. and both together. The 
AUCtau and Cmax, ss of zidovudine increased by about 13% and 17%, respectively, and the AUCtau and 
Cmax,ss  of  zidovudine  glucuronide  increased  by  about  6%  and  9%,  respectively.  There  was  no 
significant  pharmacokinetic  interaction  at  the  level  of  renal  tubular  secretion.  These  findings  were 
reviewed in the light of results of study FTC-303, further described under the clinical efficacy section, 
in which the background regimen was stavudine or zidovudine plus an NNRTI or PI. The proportion 
of  patients  who  took  zidovudine  during  the  study  was  126/294  (43%)  in  the  emtricitabine  arm  and 
12/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
70/146 (48%) in the lamivudine arm. In this subset, emtricitabine and lamivudine had similar antiviral 
activity and there were no notable differences in the safety data. Therefore, the interaction noted was 
not thought to be of clinical significance.  
There  were  no  clinically  significant  pharmacokinetic 
co-administered with indinavir, stavudine, or tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. 
interactions  when  emtricitabine  was 
The  bioavailability  of  emtricitabine  and  penciclovir  (as  famciclovir)  were  slightly  less  (7-9%)  when 
co-administered. Nevertheless, the  degree  of  difference in  AUCs  observed  was not considered  to  be 
clinically significant.  
It  may  be  predicted  that  co-administration  of  200 mg  emtricitabine  with  medicinal  products  that  are 
eliminated  by  active  tubular  secretion  may  lead  to  an  increase  in  serum  concentrations  of  either 
emtricitabine or a co-administered medicinal product due to competition for this elimination pathway. 
Clinical efficacy 
An overview of the clinical studies submitted to support the efficacy and safety of emtricitabine in 
HIV infected adults and children are displayed in table 1.
13/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
i.  Main Studies in treatment naïve and experienced patients 
Study Type / 
No. 
Population/sites 
Design 
Objective 
FTC-301A 
Revised 
Adult, HIV-1 infected, treatment-naïve  
North America, Latin America, Europe 
FTC-302 
FTC-303/       
FTC-350    
Adult, HIV-1 infected, treatment-naïve 
South Africa 
Adult, HIV-1 infected, lamivudine-experienced, stable 
HIV-1 RNA Patients on a Stable Triple Antiretroviral 
Therapy Regimen Containing Lamivudine, Stavudine or 
Zidovudine, and a Protease Inhibitor or Non-Nucleoside 
Reeverse Transcriptase Inhibitor / 
Randomized, double-blind, 
controlled  
Randomized, double-blind, 
controlled 
Randomized, open-label, 
controlled, responders in 
FTC-303 roll over to FTC-
350 (single arm FTC)   
Safety and efficacy equivalence to stavudine within a 
Triple Drug Combination Containing Didanosine Plus 
Efavirenz 
Safety and efficacy equivalence to lamivudine within a 
Triple Drug Combination  
Safety and efficacy equivalence to lamivudine at 48 
weeks in a switch setting, long-term safety and efficacy 
in rollover (FTC-350) 
 Emtricitabine 
Patients Planned/ 
Enrolled 
Study Report  
250/286 
48 weeks reported 
250/234 
48W 
FTC-303  300/294 
FTC-350  289 
Total 419/368 
48W 
FTC-303/ 
Safety Data for 
FTC-350 
ii.  Studies in children 
FTC-203 
Paediatric (3 mo-17yrs), HIV-1 infected, treatment naïve 
and lamivudine experienced  
FTC-202 
(PACTG 
1021) 
Supportive studies 
ANRS 099/ 
ALIZE  
FTC-201 
(ANRS-091-
MONTANA) 
ACTG5015 
Paediatric, HIV-1 infected, treatment-naïve 
Adult, HIV-1 infected, treatment-experienced, stable 
HIV-1 RNA 
58 centres in France 
Adult, HIV-1 infected, treatment naïve  
HIV-1 infected, treatment- naïve 
C1:>13<30 yrs 
C2:>45 yrs  
Open-label 
experienced: switch 
lamivudine to emtricitabine 
Naïve: emtricitabine + 
stavudine + 
Lopinavir/ritonavir 
Open-label, single arm 
eFTC +ddI +EFVfor 48 
weeks  
Randomized, open-label, 
switch; rollover includes 
subjects rolling from non-
emtricitabine arm to 
emtricitabine 
Open-label, single arm, 
QD regimen extended 4 
years 
Open-label, single arm 
(emtricitabine + stavudine 
lopinavir/ritonavir), two 
age cohorts 
Safety, PK, and antiviral activity in paediatric patients 
80/83  
Synopsis of 
ongoing study 
Safety and efficacy in pediatric population w/HIV-1 
infection 
42/37 
Draft interim 
report 
Compare safety and efficacy between continuing on 
stable therapy and switch to emtricitabine, didanosine, 
efavirenz (all QD) 
Original 175/178 
Rollover 175/150 
48 weeks results 
presented at 10th 
Conference 
Safety, efficacy of QD triple regimen emtricitabine, 
didanosine, efavirenz 
Total 350/328 
40/40 
Explore the basis of accelerated age associated HIV-
disease progression  
90/91 
Published findings 
only (96 weeks)  
Synopsis of study 
status 
14/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
        
 
 
  
 
 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies  
Dose response studies 
FTC-101 was a dose escalation study to investigate the safety, pharmacokinetics and antiviral activity 
of multiple repeated doses of emtricitabine in HIV infected patients. The study was performed in 41 
adult patients naïve to lamivudine and abacavir with plasma HIV RNA ≥ 5000 copies/ml and CD4 cell 
counts ≥ 200 cells/mm3. Median changes in HIV-1 RNA from baseline to Day 15 increased with the 
dose  and  reached  an  apparent  plateau  at  doses  between  200  mg  qd  and  200  mg  bid.  Median  viral 
suppression was 1.9 log10 at 200 mg q.d. and b.i.d. compared to 1.3, 1.5, and 1.7 log10 for the 25 mg 
b.i.d.,  100  mg  q.d.  and  100  mg  b.i.d.  groups,  respectively.  There  was  a  statistically  significant 
correlation between the dose and the change in viral load from baseline while the correlation between 
dose  and  AAUCMB  (average  area  under  the  time  curve  minus  baseline)  to  Day  15  approached 
significance (p=0.055). The maximum AAUCMB was estimated to be 1.34 log10. 
In study FTC-102, emtricitabine monotherapy (at 25 mg, 100 mg and 200 mg q.d.) was compared with 
lamivudine monotherapy (at 150 mg b.i.d.) over 10 days. The study was performed in 4 cohorts of 20 
adult HIV infected patients naïve to lamivudine and abacavir with CD4 cell counts ≥ 200 cells/mm3 
and  HIV  RNA  ≥  5000  to  <  100,000  copies/ml.  A  dose  response  relationship  was  observed  for  viral 
suppression as analysed by AAUCMB through Day 12. There was a statistically significant difference 
between the emtricitabine 200 mg q.d. and the lamivudine groups with respect to AAUCMB through 
Days  11  and  12  (p  =  0.04)  with  values  of  –0.98  log10  for  lamivudine  versus  –  1.04  log10  for 
emtricitabine  at  day  11  and  –  1.01  log10  and  –  1.14  log10  at  day  12.  There  was  no  statistically 
significant difference between 100 mg and 25 mg emtricitabine doses and lamivudine. 
Relationship between plasma concentration and effect 
Based on the parameter estimates obtained from the dose-response analysis using Emax modelling, the 
anti-HIV  activity  of  emtricitabine  was  predicted  to  reach  a  plateau  as  dose  increases,  with  little 
difference  in  the  activity  between  the  200  mg  and  400  mg  doses.  A  dose  of  200  mg  per  day  was 
predicted  to  achieve  close  to  95%  of  the  maximal  antiviral  activity  with  little  additional 
(approximately 3%) activity observed at the 400 mg dose per day.  
These results, along with the pharmacokinetic data and anti-viral activity of emtricitabine, supported 
the choice of 200 mg once daily as the recommended dose in the main clinical studies. 
Main study(ies) (phase III = therapeutic confirmatory trials)  
Studies in antiretroviral treatment-naïve adult patients: studies FTC-301A and 302  
Description of the study 
Study FTC-301A compared emtricitabine 200 mg q.d. with stavudine (30 or 40 mg b.i.d. by weight), 
each  administered  with  both  didanosine  (enteric  coated  250  mg  or  400  mg  q.d.  by  weight)  and 
efavirenz (600 mg q.d.) in antiretroviral naïve adult patients. 
Patients were stratified at entry according to HIV RNA 5-100,000 or >100,000 copies/ml and site of 
enrolment.  The  study  was  unblinded  on  the  Data  Safety  Monitoring  Board’s  recommendation 
following a planned interim analysis at week 24. 
Study  FTC-302  compared  emtricitabine  once  daily  to  lamivudine  twice  daily  when  used  with  a 
background regimen containing stavudine and a NNRTI.  
Patients were randomised (1:1 with respect to emtricitabine: lamivudine) to: 
- Stratum 1(HIV RNA baseline ≥ 5,000 and ≤ 20,000 copies/ml) and Stratum 2 (HIV RNA baseline 
> 20,000  and  ≤100,000  copies/ml)  (n  =  200):  emtricitabine  (200  mg  q.d.)  or  lamivudine  (150  mg 
b.i.d.)  +  stavudine  (30 or  40 mg  b.i.d.  by  weight)  +  nevirapine  (200  mg  q.d.  for  14  days  and  then 
15/3015 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
200 mg b.i.d.)  
-  Stratum  3  (HIV  RNA  baseline  >  100,000  copies/ml)  (n  =  50):  emtricitabine  (200  mg  q.d.  or 
lamivudine (150 mg b.i.d.) + stavudine (as above) + efavirenz (600 mg q.d.) 
This  differentiation  of  treatment  by  stratum  was  on  FDA  advice  and  was  due  to  the  absence  of 
conclusive data to support the efficacy of nevirapine in patients with HIV-RNA >100,000 copies/ml.  
When the last patient completed 48 weeks of treatment, all patients still on blinded study medication 
with ≤ 2000 copies/ml were offered continuation on an open label triple regimen.  
Primary endpoints/assays 
The  primary  assessment  of  efficacy  was  the  proportion  of  randomised  and  treated  patients  with 
durable suppression of plasma HIV-1  RNA  less  than the limit  of assay detection (LOD)  through  48 
weeks of study. In study FTC-301A, ≤ 50 copies/ml was the primary endpoint but both ≤ 50 and ≤ 400 
copies/ml were considered co-primary endpoints in study FTC-302.  
For efficacy evaluation in the pivotal studies, the following populations were defined: 
- 
Intent-to-treat (ITT): All subjects randomised who receive at least one dose of study medication, 
regardless completion of study protocol; this was the primary population in the analyses of the 
two studies. 
As-treated population (ATR): all patients for whom no clear evidence was available of failure to 
take study medication and who had non-missing data at a given time point. 
All randomized population: all patients randomized, regardless of whether or not the study drug 
was actually taken or if the patient completed the planned duration of the study. 
Virological  evaluable  population:  all  patients  having  received  at  least  one  dose  of  study 
medication with a plasma HIV-RNA on or after week 12, while on prescribed treatment. 
-  
-  
-  
The following definitions of outcomes were used in both studies: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
study 
while 
receiving 
prescribed 
Loss  of  virological  response  was  defined  as  plasma  HIV-1  RNA  >  400  copies/ml  on  two 
consecutive  measurements  after  achieving  a  plasma  HIV-1  RNA  level  at  or  below  400 
copies/ml 
medication. 
the 
Lack  of  virological  response  was  defined  as  failure  to  achieve  plasma  HIV-1  RNA  ≤  400 
copies/ml by Week 12 (study FTC-301A) or at any time during the study (FTC-302). 
Virological  failure  was  deemed  to  have  occurred  if  the  patient  had  either  loss  or  lack  of  a 
virological  response.  In  study  FTC-302,  virological  failures  were  also  sub-classified  as  being 
associated  with  resistance  if  lack  or  loss  of  response  occurred  with  emergence  of  mutations 
corresponding to NRTI or NNRTI drugs within the regimen.  
Tolerability  failure  occurred  when  a  patient  had  any  adverse  event  that  leads  to  permanent 
discontinuation of the blinded study drug. 
Effectiveness failure was defined as virological failure, death, clinical disease progression (i.e., a 
development of a new CDC class C event), or premature treatment discontinuation (i.e., due to 
tolerability failure, lost to follow-up, or other reasons). 
Efficacy  failure  was  defined  as  virological  failure,  death,  clinical  disease  progression  (i.e.,  a 
development of a new CDC class C event), or treatment discontinuation due to the patient being 
lost to follow-up.  
Statistical analysis 
In  study  FTC-301A,  non-inferiority  was  considered  to  have  been  demonstrated  if  the  lower  95% 
stratum  adjusted  confidence  interval  around  the  difference  between  treatments  in  the  proportions  of 
patients with ≤ 50 copies/ml at week 24 was within -10%. Patients who discontinued the study or were 
lost to follow-up were considered failures (NC = F). However, patients who had missing data between 
were censored at that timepoint (i.e. excluded from the numerator and denominator).  
In  study  FTC-302,  non-inferiority  was  considered  to  have  been  demonstrated  if  the  lower  95% 
confidence  interval  around  the  difference  between  the  two  treatments  in  the  proportion  of  patients 
whose  plasma  HIV  RNA  was  ≤  400  copies/ml  at  Week  48  was  within  –12.5%.  Patients  who 
discontinued the study or were lost to follow-up were considered failures (NC = F). 
16/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Study populations/accountability of patients 
Study FTC-301A 
Up to week 24, there were no major differences between treatment groups with respect to premature 
discontinuations  (89%  completed  24  weeks  of  emtricitabine  and  89%  of  stavudine).  When  the  last 
patient completed 24 weeks (database cut-off), 244 (77%) of a potential 319 patients had completed 
48 weeks on study, but rates were 81% for emtricitabine and 72% for stavudine. The difference was 
mainly  due  to  discontinuations  because  of  adverse  events  after  week  24  (6%  versus  12%)  or 
virological failure (3% versus 9%).  
The  baseline  characteristics  were  well  balanced  between  the  treatment  groups.  The  majority  of 
patients  were  male  (85%)  and  Caucasian  (52%)  with  a  mean  age  of  36  years.  The  mean  baseline  
HIV-RNA was 4.8 log10 copies/ml. Approximately 40 % of patients had baseline HIV-RNA > 100,000 
copies/ml  and the  mean  CD4 counts  were 318 cells/mm3. About  80  %  of  patients  had  no  history of 
HIV related events.  
Study FTC-302 
Overall, 71% in the emtricitabine and 77% in the lamivudine group completed treatment up to week 
48. Twenty patients in each treatment group withdrew due to virologic failure with genotypic evidence 
of resistance, and twenty-two patients in each treatment group withdrew due to adverse events prior to 
completing week 48. 
Demographic characteristics were well balanced between treatment groups. Overall, 59% of patients 
were female, with 77  % of Black origin and  a  mean age  of 33  years. The  mean  baseline  HIV-RNA 
was 4.5 log10 copies/ml. Approximately 15% of patients had baseline HIV-RNA > 100,000 copies/ml 
and mean CD4 count of 389 cells/mm3. Approximately 82% were stratified to nevirapine and about 
78% did not have any history of HIV related events. 
Efficacy results  
Study FTC-301A 
The results for the primary efficacy endpoint at week 24 and week 48 (for those who had reached that 
timepoint at the time of the interim analysis) the differences between treatments were all statistically 
significant in favour of the emtricitabine group (table 2). The results for the secondary endpoints are 
presented in table 3. 
Table 2: Primary Efficacy Endpoint at Interim analysis 
ITT Population 
At Week 24 
% < 50 copies/ml (NC=F) 
Week 48 Evaluable Population 
At Week 24 
% < 50 copies/ml (NC=F) 
At Week 48 
% < 50 copies/ml (NC=F) 
d4T (N=285) 
FTC (N=286) 
Difference (d4T-FTC)* 
95% CI* 
69.6 
d4T (N=163) 
80.9 
FTC (N=156) 
-11.3 
Difference (d4T-FTC)* 
(-18.0, -4.6) 
95% CI* 
66.5 
55.6 
80.0 
72.9 
-12.3 
-17.5 
(-21.3, -3.3) 
(-27.5, -7.5) 
*All differences and CIs are stratum-adjusted. ; d4T = stavudine and FTC = emtricitabine 
17/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Treatment Differences in Secondary Efficacy Endpoints at Interim analysis: ITT Population 
Week 24 Endpoint 
d4T (N=285) 
FTC (N=286) 
Difference (d4T-FTC)* 
95% CI* 
% < 400 copies/ml (NC=F) 
Efficacy Failure1 (%) 
KM probability of Efficacy Failure1 (%) 
Confirmed Virologic Failure (%) 
79.3 
13.0 
14.0 
9.5 
86.9 
7.0 
7.2 
3.8 
-6.8 
4.9 
6.8 
4.4 
3.8 
10.3 
20.4 
KM probability of Virologic Failure (%) 
Effectiveness Failure2 (%) 
KM probability of Effectiveness Failure2 (%) 
Mean CD4+ cell change from BL3 
Mean CD4+ cell percent change from BL 
d4T = stavudine and FTC = emtricitabine  
1  Week 24; defined as virologic failure, clinical disease progression, death or lost to follow-up. 
2  Week 24; defined as virologic failure, clinical disease progression, death, premature treatment discontinuation due to any reason. 
3  Units are cells/mm3. 
*Differences and CIs are not stratum-adjusted for KM probability analyses but are stratum-adjusted for all other secondary endpoints. 
155.6 
118.7 
-30.1 
14.0 
14.0 
21.8 
-2.3 
5.1 
7.8 
5.9 
6.6 
7.5 
(-12.6, -1.0) 
(0.4, 9.4) 
(1.7, 11.9) 
(1.1, 7.7) 
(2.3, 10.9) 
(0.2, 11.6) 
(1.5, 14.0) 
(-54.2, -6.0) 
(-3.1, -1.5) 
The  results  by  individual  strata  (site  of  enrolment  and  baseline  HIV  RNA)  supported  these 
observations. 
To assess the robustness of the primary efficacy analysis based on the ITT population, retrospective 
analyses (based on individual per protocol criteria and combined criteria) were performed (table 4). In 
each case, there was numerical superiority in favour of the emtricitabine treatment group and the 95% 
CI  around  the  differences  in  proportion  of  patients  reaching  <  50  copies/ml  indicated  that  non-
inferiority  was  not  demonstrated  between  treatments.  Thus,  the  results  of  these  additional  analyses 
supported the conclusions that were drawn from the pre-defined primary analysis. 
Table 4: retrospective analyses 
d4T (N=285) 
FTC (N=286) 
d4T-FTC 1 
95% CI 
Per Protocol Analyses 
Evaluable2 
%< 50 cp/ml 
%< 400 cp/ml 
Duration3 
%< 50 cp/ml 
%< 400 cp/ml 
No Deviations4 
%< 50 cp/ml 
%< 400 cp/ml 
Overall Per Protocol5 
%< 50 cp/ml 
%< 400 cp/ml 
Sensitivity Analysis 
LOCF 6 
195/243 (80.2%) 
222/243 (91.4%) 
229/247 (92.7%) 
245/247 (99.2%) 
195/252 (77.4%) 
222/252 (88.1%) 
229/252 (90.9%) 
245/251 (97.6%) 
176/252 (69.8%) 
202/252 (80.2%) 
205/249 (82.3%) 
220/248 (88.7%) 
176/221 (79.6%) 
202/221 (91.4%) 
205/220 (93.2%) 
220/220 (100%) 
213/285 (74.7%) 
249/285 (87.4%) 
%< 50 cp/ml 
%< 400 cp/ml 
d4T = stavudine and FTC = emtricitabine 
1 Statistical analyses have been adjusted for screening plasma HIV RNA and geographical region strata. 
2 Excludes subjects who have missing HIV-1 RNA data in Week 24 analysis window (Day 155 - Day 182). 
3 Excludes subjects who have permanently discontinued study for any reason before Week 24 (Day 155) 
4 Excludes subjects with any Clinically Important Protocol Deviation during the trial. 
5 Excludes subjects who do not meet all Per Protocol population definitions. 
6 Last plasma HIV-1 RNA observation carried forward to Week 24  
241/286 (84.3%) 
264/286 (92.3%) 
-12.2% 
-6.5% 
-13.4% 
-5.8% 
-13.2% 
-7.7% 
-14.1% 
-6.9% 
-17.5, -6.8 
-10.2, -2.7 
-19.3, -7.6 
-9.8, -1.9 
-20.1, -6.3 
-13.6, -1.8 
-19.6, -8.6 
-10.3, -3.4 
-9.7% 
-3.6% 
-15.7, -3.7 
-8.0, 0.8 
A concern was raised with respect to the choice of a stavudine-based comparative regimen. However, 
it was noted that in this rapid evolving field, stavudine was the most prescribed compound in its class 
at the time of initiation of the study and the combination of stavudine with didanosine was a popular 
choice for the dual nucleoside analogue basis of therapy.  
18/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Genotypic  analysis  was  performed  retrospectively  for  isolates  from  patients  classed  as  virological 
failures  and  data  were  obtained  from  57/58  patients  (16/17  emtricitabine  and  41/41  stavudine)  at 
baseline  and  at  the  time  of  virological  failure.  The  16  baseline  isolates  from  emtricitabine  patients 
showed that 6 (37.5%) entered the study with HIV RNA containing mutations at positions associated 
with  NRTI  or  NNRTI  resistance.  In  the  stavudine  group  13  (31.7%)  patients  entered  the  study  with 
drug-associated mutations in the HIV-RT.  
At the time  of virological failure, 11/16 (68.8%) emtricitabine patients  and 35/41 (85.4%) stavudine 
patients had virus that had developed at least one new mutation associated with antiretroviral therapy 
resistance. 
An analysis of the differences in the rate of virological failure between treatments was performed after 
adjusting  for  baseline  mutations.  Patients  in  the  stavudine  arm  who  had  TAMs  at  baseline  were 
censored so that the analysis included all 17 emtricitabine failures but only 35 stavudine failures. The 
analysis  confirmed  that  there  was  a  lower  incidence  of  virological  failure  in  emtricitabine-treated 
patients  (p  =  0.0132).  A  sensitivity  analysis  was  done  in  which  virological  failures  in  the  stavudine 
arm that had a TAM (n=6) or a K103N (n=5) mutation at baseline and failures in the emtricitabine arm 
that had a K103N (n=3) mutation at baseline were censored. There was still a statistically significant 
difference in the incidence of virological failure in favour of emtricitabine (p = 0.0182).  
Study FTC-302 
In  the  ITT  and  as-treated  populations,  slightly  lower  proportions  of  patients  in  the  emtricitabine 
treatment  group  achieved  and  maintained  suppression  of  plasma  HIV-1  RNA  below  400  copies/ml 
through Week 48. Also, the stratum-adjusted 95% CI showed that the lower limit was > 12.5% for the 
ITT population. However, proportions at < 50 copies/ml were very similar between treatments and the 
lowest 95% CI was –12.6% (table 5).  
Table 5: Primary Efficacy Endpoint at Week 48 
Endpoint 
% ≤ 400 copies/ml (NC=F)1 
% ≤ 400 copies/ml (As Treated) 
% ≤ 50 copies/ml (NC=F)1 
% ≤ 50 copies/ml (As Treated) 
FTC = emtricitabine; LAM = lamivudine;   1 Non-completer is considered “Failure” for this analysis, unless patient was censored from 
analysis as defined in statistical methods. 
All differences and CIs are stratum-adjusted.; FTC = emtricitabine; LAM = lamivudine 
Difference 2 (FTC – LAM) 
-6.9 
-5.4 
-3.8 
-1.6 
LAM (N=234) 
164/230 (71.3%) 
164/182 (90.1%) 
148/232 (63.8%) 
148/182 (81.3%) 
FTC (N=234) 
145/225 (64.4%) 
145/168 (86.3%) 
136/226 (60.2%) 
136/168 (81.0%) 
95% CI 2 
-15.5, 1.6 
-11.8, 1.0 
-12.6, 5.1 
-9.6, 6.3 
The secondary analyses generally reflected the above findings in that there were small but consistent 
numerical differences between treatments that favoured the lamivudine regimen (table 6). 
Table 6: secondary analyses 
LAM (N=234)  Difference (FTC – LAM) 
45/234 (19.2%) 
20.6% 
1.8 
1.7 
4.6 
15.9% 
11.2% 
23/208 (11.1%) 
33/208 (15.9%) 
FTC (N=234) 
48/234 (20.5%) 
22.3% 
Endpoint 
Efficacy Failure (%) 
KM probability of Efficacy 
Failure1  
Confirmed Virological Failure (%) 
KM probability of Virological 
Failure 
Confirmed Virological Failure 
 With genotypic mutation (%) 
Effectiveness Failure3 (%) 
KM probability of Effectiveness 
Failure3  
CD4+ (Absolute) Mean Change 
from BL (LOCF)4 
CD4+ (Absolute) Mean Change 
from BL  
FTC = emtricitabine; LAM = lamivudine  
1  Defined as virologic failure, clinical disease progression, death or lost to follow-up. 
2 
3  Defined as a premature treatment discontinuation due to any reason, clinical disease progression, or virologic failure. 
4  Last Observation Carried Forward analysis. 
5All differences and CIs are stratum-adjusted except KM. 
Includes mutations at M184I/V, G190A, K103N, Y181C, Y188C, V108I, K101, E138, V106. 
20/208 (9.6%) 
83/234 (35.5%) 
20/208 (9.6%) 
89/234 (38.0%) 
1.0 
2.6 
35.5% 
38.1% 
161.0 
191.2 
174.6 
205.8 
-19.2 
-16.0 
4.7 
2.6 
95% CI  
-5.2, 8.9 
-5.7, 9.1 
-1.7, 10.8 
-1.5, 10.9 
-4.5, 6.5 
-6.1, 11.3 
-6.1, 11.4 
-46.5, 14.4 
-54.0, 15.6 
19/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
More of the virological failures in the lamivudine group had mutant virus at time of failure compared 
with those in the emtricitabine group (87% versus 61%).  
Studies in antiretroviral experienced patients: FTC-303 
Description of the study 
Patients were randomised (2:1) to replacement of lamivudine 150 mg b.i.d. with emtricitabine 200 mg 
q.d. or to continuation with the existing lamivudine regimen. 
Patients were to  have  been  on  a  stable triple antiretroviral regimen  containing lamivudine,  an  NRTI 
(stavudine  or  zidovudine),  and  a  marketed  PI  or  NNRTI  for  ≥ 12  weeks  and  were  to  have  <  400 
copies/ml at the time of the screening visit. Patients were stratified by < 50 or 50-400 copies/ml and by 
PI or NNRTI in the regimen. 
Primary endpoints/assays 
The  primary  assessment  of  efficacy  was  the  proportion  of  randomised  and  treated  patients  with 
durable  suppression  of  plasma  HIV-1  RNA  less  than  the  limit  of  assay  detection  (≤  400  copies/ml 
LOD) through 48 weeks of study. Patients who discontinued were considered as failures. 
Statistical analysis 
This was a non-inferiority study based on a 15% limit in the difference in proportions with < 400 
copies/ml at week 48. 
RESULTS 
Study population/accountability of patients 
Out of the randomised patients, 307 in emtricitabine and 152 lamivudine, 227 (77%) and 119 (82 %) 
completed the study as planned. Premature discontinuations were  more frequent in the emtricitabine 
arm, mostly due to adverse events (4 %). The nature of these was quite diverse, they were generally of 
mild severity and their relationship to emtricitabine was uncertain. 
Treatment  groups  were  well  balanced  at  baseline  with  respect  to  demographic  variables.  The  mean 
viral load at baseline was 1.8 log10 copies/ml in each treatment group, with a range of 1.7 to 4 log10 
copies/ml. All subjects entered the study with HIV-1 RNA ≤ 400 copies/ml, with the majority (86%) 
having  HIV-1  RNA  <  50  copies/ml.  Previous  exposure  to  antiretroviral  drugs  was  not  notably 
different between the two treatment arms. Nevirapine was the most frequent NNRTI (63% of subjects) 
and nelfinavir accounted for 88% of PI use. 
Efficacy results 
At  Week  48,  73%  in  the  emtricitabine  group  and  82%  in  the  lamivudine  group  had  plasma  HIV-1 
RNA  ≤ 400  copies/ml.  The  stratum-adjusted  difference  between  treatment  group  was  –5.8  %  with  a 
lower bound of 95% CIs at -13.5 % meeting the protocol’s pre-defined criteria for non-inferiority.  
The findings at the ≤ 50 copies/ml cut-off were similar, with 68% emtricitabine and 75% lamivudine 
group patients at this level at week 48 in the stratum-adjusted and unadjusted analyses (see table 7). 
20/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7: Secondary Efficacy Endpoints 
Week 48 Endpoint 
% HIV-1 RNA < 50 copies/ml 
% Efficacy Failure2 
Probability of Efficacy Failure3 
% Virological Failure4  
Probability of Virological Failure3 
% Effectiveness Failure5  
Probability of Effectiveness Failure3 
% Progression of CDC Class C Event 
Mean CD4+ cell change from Baseline 
Mean CD4+ cell % change from Baseline 
FTC (N=294) 
67.8 
10.2 
11.0 
7.8 
8.5 
23.5 
23.8 
0.7 
29 
2.5 
LAM (N=146) 
74.8 
10.3 
10.7 
7.5 
8.0 
19.2 
19.2 
1.4 
61 
1.7 
(FTC-LAM) Difference1 
-4.7 
-1.0 
0.3 
-0.2 
0.6 
 2.8 
4.6 
0.9 
-30 
0.81 
95% CI1 
-13.0, 3.5 
-5.9, 3.8 
-6.0, 6.6 
-4.1, 3.6 
-5.1, 6.2 
-4.7, 10.2 
-3.4, 12.7 
-0.5, 2.3 
-66, 5.8 
0.0, 1.6 
FTC = emtricitabine; LAM = lamivudine  
1    All differences and confidence intervals (CI) are stratum-adjusted with the exception of Kaplan-Meier probabilities of failure. 
2    Defined as virological failure, CDC Class C progression, death or lost to follow-up. 
3    Kaplan-Meier probability of failure at 48 Weeks.  Associated confidence interval is not stratum-adjusted. 
4    Defined as HIV-1 RNA > 400 copies/ml on two consecutive evaluations 
5   Defined as virological failure, tolerability failure, CDC Class C progression, or lost to follow-up 
A concern was raised since patients who switched from lamivudine to emtricitabine were less likely to 
maintain viral load less than 400 copies/ml and to achieve or maintain viral load less than 50 copies/ml 
after 48 weeks. These findings applied in the stratum adjusted and unadjusted analyses.  
The  results  of  the  primary  analysis  might  have  favoured  lamivudine  due  to  the  difference  between 
treatment  groups  in  discontinuations  for  reasons  other  than  failure.  Nevertheless,  whereas  the  13 
patients that discontinued emtricitabine all had <50 copies/ml at the time of discontinuation, they were 
all at this level at baseline and 9/13 had discontinued before week 24 so that the last observation might 
not be very reliable.  
Additional retrospective analyses were conducted to evaluate the impact of differences in withdrawals 
due to adverse events upon efficacy outcomes as follows (table 8): 
Week 48 Endpoint 
FTC (N=294) 
LAM (N=146) 
FTC-LAM 1 
95% CI 
Table 8: Efficacy Endpoint Analysis  
100% 
-2.2% 
-1.4% 
-5.8% 
76.5% 
73.1% 
92.2% 
97.6% 
81.7% 
81.5% 
93.2% 
(-4.4, 0.0) 
(-13.5, 1.8) 
Responder Analysis 
% ≤ 400 cp/ml (NC=F) 2 
% ≤ 400 cp/ml (“as treated” at W48) 3 
% ≤ 400 cp/ml (LOCF at W48) 4 
FDA defined Responder 5 
Time to Virological Failure 
K-M Probability (TLOVR) 6 
K-M Probability (protocol) 7 
FTC = emtricitabine; LAM = lamivudine  
1 stratum adjusted difference between treatment arms according to randomisation strata for responder analyses. Difference and CIs are not 
stratum-adjusted for KM probability analysis. 
2 Protocol-defined analysis of plasma HIV-1 RNA that treats all patients that did not complete the trial as “failures”  
3 Per protocol analysis of plasma HIV-1 RNA using all evaluable patients at Week 48  
4 Per protocol analysis of plasma HIV-1 RNA using last plasma HIV-1 RNA observation carried forward to Week 48  
5 Provided to Triangle at pre-NDA meeting on July 3, 2002 as primary efficacy endpoint and consistent with the published Guidance for 
Industry entitled “Antiretroviral Drugs Using Plasma HIV RNA Measurements – Clinical Considerations for Accelerated and Traditional 
Approval” October 2002 
6 FDA-defined TLOVR analysis (Addendum to FTC-303 CSR) – non-responders include discontinuations 
7 Protocol defined time to virological failure (HIV-1 RNA > 400 copies/ml on 2 consecutive visits). 
(-3.0, 12.9) 
(-10.0, 4.7) 
(-5.1, 6.2) 
(-5.4, 2.5) 
18.5% 
23.5% 
-2.6% 
8.5% 
8.0% 
0.6% 
5.0% 
The  applicant  submitted  an  efficacy  analysis  according  to  the  Food  and  Drug  Administration 
algorithm for time to  loss  of virologic response (TLOVR analysis), which  is  an  acceptable endpoint 
when  evaluating  maintenance  therapy,  as  mentioned  in  the  CPMP  Note  for  Guidance  related  to  the 
clinical development of anti-HIV medicinal products. As shown in table 8, patients were numerically 
more likely to fail if they switched to emtricitabine but the lower 95% CI were actually within –10%.  
21/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It  was  considered  that  the  additional  analyses,  particularly  the  very  relevant  analysis  of  TLVOR, 
suggested that the numerical differences between regimens might not be of major clinical significance.  
Complete  or  at  least  partial  (around  M184)  sequence  analysis  of  baseline  isolates  was  obtained  for 
23/34  virological  failures  (19/23  in  the  emtricitabine  arm  and  4/11  in  the  lamivudine  arm).  In  the 
emtricitabine subset, the M184V/I mutation was present in 17/19 (89.5%) isolates at baseline. In the 
lamivudine subset, the M184V mutation was present in 3/4 (75%) isolates at baseline. Genotypic data 
were  available  for  33/34  patients  at  the  time  of  virological  failure.  Two  emtricitabine  and  the  one-
lamivudine patients with wild type virus at M184 at baseline had developed the M184V mutation.  
Supportive studies 
ANRS 099 (ALIZE) 
This  study  compared  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  maintaining  a  PI-containing  stable  triple  regimen 
versus changing to a combination of emtricitabine/didanosine/efavirenz administered once daily as in 
study 301A. Patients had < 400 copies/ml after 48 weeks on previous therapy, and were NNRTI-naïve. 
Randomisation was stratified according to whether patients had received NRTIs prior to HAART. The 
final report has not yet been published however the applicant provided preliminary data after 48 weeks 
post-switch, which were presented at the 10th Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections 
in February 2003.  
There  were  355  patients  randomised  (177  PI-based  and  178  emtricitabine-based)  and  the  two 
treatment groups were well balanced with respect to baseline characteristics. By week 48, 21 and 18 
patients in respective groups had discontinued treatment while four and five had discontinued follow-
up.  
The results are presented in table 9. 
Table 9: Efficacy Outcome at Week 48 – ALIZE 
Week 48 Endpoint 
Number of Patients Randomized 
% Virological Success 1 
FTC 
178 
Intent-to-treat (Available Data) 
163/174  (93.7%) 
162/176   (92.1%) 
Intent-to-treat (Missing=Failure) 
160/178  (89.9%) 
155/177  (87.6%) 
% < 50 copies/ml 
Maintenance 
Arm 
FTC-
Maintenance 
177 
95% CI 
- 
(-3.8%, 7.0%) 
(-4.3%, 8.9%) 
- 
1.6% 
2.3% 
Intent-to-treat (Centralised Virology Data) 
159/168   (94.6%) 
141/163   (86.5%) 
8.1% 
(1.9%, 14.4%) 
FTC = emtricitabine; 1 Defined as no virological failure (HIV RNA ≥ 400 copies/ml on 2 consecutive evaluations) from baseline to week 48 
The  limited  data  suggested  that  patients  who  had  responded  to  PI-based  HAART  without  NNRTIs 
could be switched to a once daily regimen containing-emtricitabine without any detrimental effect on 
their virological response. 
FTC-201 (ANRS-091; MONTANA STUDY) 
This is an ongoing open-label study in which all patients receive once daily emtricitabine, efavirenz 
and  didanosine.  The  study  was  extended  to  4  years.  There  were  36/40  treatment-naive  patients  who 
had completed 96 weeks at which time 85% and 80% of patients had a viral load below 400 and 50 
copies/ml, respectively.  
ACTG 5015  
As  of  May  2002,  72  treatment-naïve  patients  had  at  least  48  weeks  of  emtricitabine  plus 
lopinavir/ritonavir  and  stavudine.  In  the  week  24  ITT  analyses,  60/91  (66%)  had  a  viral  load  ≤  50 
copies/ml  and  75/91  (82%)  was  at  ≤  200  copies/ml.  For  53  patients  evaluated  at  week  48,  39/53 
(73.6%) had a viral load ≤ 50 copies/ml and 46/53 (86.8%) had a viral load ≤ 200 copies/ml.  
22/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children 
Limited data are available from two ongoing, open label studies in children: 
- FTC-202 (PACTG-1021) enrolling 37 treatment-naïve HIV infected children (no prior antiretroviral 
therapy  exposure  or  less  than  56  days  of  perinatal  prophylaxis)  or  children  who  have  had  7  or  less 
days  of  cumulative  antiretroviral  therapy  who  receive  emtricitabine  (6  mg/kg  up  to  200  mg  daily), 
efavirenz and didanosine.  
-  FTC-203  enrolling  83  treatment-naïve  HIV  infected  children  (no  prior  antiretroviral  therapy 
exposure or less than 56 days of perinatal prophylaxis) or children on a stable (≥ 90 days suppressive 
lamivudine  containing  ART  regimen)  who  receive  emtricitabine  (6  mg/kg  once  daily;  up  to  a 
maximum  of  200  mg  once  daily)  plus  stavudine  and  lopinavir/ritonavir.  On  enrolment,  treatment-
experienced  patients  responding  to  a  lamivudine-containing  regimen  are  switched  to  emtricitabine 
with the same background therapy.  
The main baseline characteristics for the two studies combined are presented in the table 10. 
Table 10: baseline characteristics (FTC-202 an FTC-203) 
Demographic 
Characteristic 
ART Stratum 
Naïve (N = 83) 
Experienced (N = 31) 
Mean (SE) 
Range 
Median 
Median 
Solution 
Capsule 
Age (yr) 
7.0 (0.5) 
0.3 – 17.9 
7.5 (0.7) 
1.1 – 15.9 
Baseline Plasma HIV-1 RNA Viral Load (log10 copies/ml) 
4.94 
1.70 
Baseline Absolute CD4+ Cell Count (cells/mm3) 
606 
1,072 
Emtricitabine Dosage Form at Study Entry (n, %) 
67 (80.7%) 
16 (19.3%) 
21 (67.7%) 
10 (32.3%) 
Overall 
(N = 114) 
7.1 (0.4) 
0.3 – 17.9 
4.60 
705 
88 (77.2%) 
26 (22.8%) 
The combined results for naïve and experienced populations from the two studies are presented at 
week 24 (using NC=F analysis) in table 11.  
Table 11: Primary Endpoint at Week 24: Combined Studies FTC-202 and FTC-203 ITT Population 
Endpoint 
(NC = F) 
ART Stratum 
Naïve (N = 83) 
Experienced (N = 31) 
≤ 400 copies/ml (n/N, %) 
69/76 (90.8%) 
≤ 50 copies/ml (n/N, %) 
53/76 (69.7%) 
26/31 (83.9%) 
22/31 (71.0%) 
Overall 
N = 114 
95/107 (88.8%) 
75/107 (70.1%) 
The  antiviral  activity  at  week  24  was  generally  consistent  across  all  age  groups  in  both  naïve  and 
experienced children. The response rate at the 50 copies/ml cut-off was lower in the naïve infants aged 
3 to  24 months  (3/9;  33.3  %),  which  may  be  due  to  insufficient  time  on  treatment  for  maturing 
immune function to overcome higher than average viral loads at study entry.  
For  both  studies  combined,  the  naïve  subjects  had  a  median  increase  in  CD4+  cell  count  by 
+250 cells/mm3  and  in  CD4%  cells  by  +10%.  These  increases  occurred  regardless  of  age  group  or 
emtricitabine  dosage  form.  In  the  experienced  subjects,  the  decrease  in  median  CD4+  cell  count 
(-89 cells/mm3) was thought to reflect the natural, age-related decline in CD4+ cells and the fact these 
children had already experienced virological success on their previous antiretroviral therapy.  
The  final  results  of  these  studies  will  be  submitted  as  part  of  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled 
post-authorisation. 
23/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Co-Infection with HIV and HBV 
In  100  HIV/HBV  co-infected  patients  enrolled  in  the  clinical  studies,  the  emtricitabine-containing 
regimen for the treatment of HIV resulted in similar suppression of HBV DNA to that observed in a 
limited  number  of  HBV-infected  patients  given  emtricitabine  200  mg  once  daily.  However, 
confirmatory studies of emtricitabine 200 mg q.d. for the treatment of HBV infected patients are still 
ongoing.  Therefore,  caution  should  be  exercised  when  treating  HIV/HBV  co-infected  patients  as 
recommended in the Summary of Product Characteristics. The final results of the applicant’s studies in 
HBV  infected  patients  will  be  submitted  as  part  of  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-
authorisation. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
At the time of the submission of the application, 2 years safety data had already been reported for 237 
HIV infected patients. An update of the safety was provided with the responses to the list of questions 
with  a  cut-off  date  of  31  March  2003,  by  which  time  2136  HIV-infected  adult  patients  had  been 
exposed in the long-term adult studies, accounting for an estimated 2,855 subject years of exposure. 
Of the 2136 patients exposed to emtricitabine, 1348 (63%) were exposed for 48 weeks, 772 (36%) for 
≥ 72 weeks and 607 (28%) for ≥ 96 weeks. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The most frequent adverse events that led to study discontinuation in both treatment groups were AST 
increased  (emtricitabine  2.0%,  control  2.3%),  ALT  increased  (emtricitabine  2.0%,  control  2.3%), 
amylase  increased  (emtricitabine  0.6%,  control  1.2%),  and  rash  (FTC  0.7%,  control  0.8%).  Females 
discontinued  due  to  adverse  events  (13.7%  emtricitabine  and  20.8%  comparators)  more  often  than 
males (7% and 9.9%, respectively).  
Adverse events 
In the two short-term monotherapy studies in HIV-infected adults, the most common adverse events 
considered  emtricitabine-related  in  101  patients  treated  with  any  dose  level  were  nausea  (16%), 
headache (12%), asthenia (12%), and increased appetite (6%). In study FTC-102, the overall incidence 
of treatment-related adverse events of any grade was comparable between groups (38% emtricitabine 
and 33% lamivudine), as were incidences of adverse events by body system and specific term.  
For  all  adverse  events  reported  in  FTC-301A,  -302  and  -303,  regardless  of  causality,  93%  of 
emtricitabine  patients  and  97%  of  those  in  control  groups  had  at  least  one  adverse  event.  The  most 
common  adverse  events  in  the  emtricitabine  group  were  infection  (33%  versus  43%  with  control); 
headache  (22%  versus  25%  with  control);  diarrhoea  (22%  versus  27%  with  control);  nausea  (17% 
versus  19%  with  control);  rash  (17%  versus  18%  control);  flu  syndrome  (15%  versus  16%  with 
control); pain (15% in both groups) and asthenia (14% in both groups).  
Overall, females were notably more likely to report abdominal pain, headache, nausea and vomiting, 
raised  liver  function  tests  and  respiratory  and  skin  complaints  than  males.  However,  females  on 
emtricitabine were not  more likely to report these events than females on comparative therapy, with 
the  exception  of  skin  discoloration  on  emtricitabine  (in  females  8  %  in  emtricitabine  and  1.5  %  in 
comparators groups versus in males 1.9 % in emtricitabine versus 0.4 % comparators). 
Table  12  shows  the  most  common  treatment-related  adverse  events  in  these  three  studies.  In 
emtricitabine-treated patients the commonest were diarrhoea, headache, nausea, dizziness, abdominal 
pain,  asthenia  and  rash.  However,  rates  of  these  and  other  adverse  events  were  similar  between 
treatment  groups.  Incidences  of  adverse  events  were  consistently  higher  in  the  first  6  months  on 
therapy and then declined steadily over time. 
24/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  12:  Treatment-Related  Clinical  Adverse  Events  (Grade  1-4)  by  Decreasing  Order  of  Frequency 
Reported  in  ≥ 3%  Emtricitabine-Treated  Patients  in  Pooled  Studies  301A,  302  and  303 
(0-48 Weeks) 
% 
(62.7%) 
14.0% 
10.2% 
10.0% 
8.6% 
7.9% 
7.9% 
7.1% 
5.8% 
4.8% 
4.4% 
4.7% 
3.6% 
3.6% 
3.2% 
3.2% 
* includes events considered by the investigator to be remotely, possibly or probably related to study drug, or where study drug relationship 
Week 48 Pooled Safety Population (Controlled Studies) 
Emtricitabine (N = 814) 
N 
510 
114 
83 
81 
70 
64 
64 
58 
47 
39 
36 
38 
29 
29 
26 
26 
Total Reporting ≥ 1 Related* AE 
Diarrhoea 
Headache 
Nausea 
Dizziness 
Abdominal Pain 
Asthenia 
Rash  
Vomiting 
Insomnia 
AST (SGOT) increased 
ALT (SGPT) increased 
Dyspepsia 
Pain 
Abnormal dreams 
Leukopenia 
Control (N = 665 ) 
N 
429 
97 
83 
86 
79 
56 
53 
60 
42 
36 
43 
44 
26 
25 
32 
16 
% 
(64.5%) 
14.6% 
12.5% 
12.9% 
11.9% 
8.4% 
8.0% 
9.0% 
6.3% 
5.4% 
6.5% 
6.6% 
3.9% 
3.8% 
4.8% 
2.4% 
data were missing. 
Rashes 
The  rashes  that  occurred  in  adult  HIV-infected  patients  included  rash,  pruritus,  allergic  reaction, 
angioedema,  urticaria,  maculopapular  rash,  vesiculobullous  rash,  pustular  rash,  Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome and erythema multiforme. The overall incidences of rash (all and related) for emtricitabine-
containing regimens were similar to those for the various comparative regimens studied. Grade 3 or 4 
rash, serious rash, or rash resulting in discontinuation of study drug each occurred in no more than 3% 
of emtricitabine-treated patients per study.  
Rates  of  all  rashes  were  higher  in  the  two  studies  in  treatment-naïve  subjects  (FTC-301A  and 
FTC-302) in which a NNRTI was used in the regimens evaluated. Rates were lower in both treatment 
groups  in  the  study  in  treatment-experienced  subjects  (FTC-303)  in  which  79%  were  receiving  a 
protease inhibitor as part of the combination regimen. 
The two cases of Stevens-Johnson syndrome in the emtricitabine group were of onset around 3 weeks 
into therapy, occurred in the nevirapine stratum and were considered unrelated to emtricitabine. The 
single case of erythema multiforme (also in the nevirapine stratum) had an onset at three weeks and 
was also considered to be unrelated to emtricitabine.  
Fat distribution disorders 
The  main  phase  III  studies  did  not  collect  data  regarding  fat  distribution  disorders  so  that  the  only 
information  comes  from  the  adverse  event  database  and  therefore  must  be  viewed  with  caution. 
Overall  lipodystrophy  was  seen  in  26/814  (3%)  patients  treated  with  emtricitabine  compared  with 
27/665  (4%)  in  the  control  groups.  The  class  statement  related  to  the  risk  of  lipodystrophy reported 
with the use of antiretroviral therapy has been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Lactic acidosis, pancreatitis, peripheral neuropathy and central nervous system disorders 
The  three  cases  of  lactic  acidosis  reported  in  emtricitabine-treated  patients  in  major  trials  were  also 
taking stavudine. The class statement related to the risk of developing lactic acidosis reported with the 
use of nucleoside analogues has been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
There  were  no  serious  reports  of  pancreatitis,  peripheral  neuropathy  or  headache  in  emtricitabine-
treated patients in the controlled studies. In the larger safety update population, the numbers of serious 
reports  of  these  events  were  four  of  pancreatitis,  one  headache,  and  no  cases  of  peripheral  neuritis. 
There have been two serious reports of psychosis and single serious reports of convulsion, depression, 
emotional  lability,  meningitis  and  psychotic  depression,  most  of  which  were  not  considered  to  be 
related to emtricitabine.  
25/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infections 
The  incidences  of  infections  that  were  reported  as  adverse  events  in  treatment-naïve  HIV-infected 
patients  in  studies  FTC-301A  and  FTC-302 were  similar  in  emtricitabine  and  comparator  groups  
(33.3 %  emtricitabine  versus  32.5  %  comparator  in  study FTC-301A and 42  % emtricitabine versus 
50 % comparator in study FTC-302). Most of these adverse events (81-83%) were upper respiratory 
infections termed as ‘common cold’, ‘cold’, ‘head cold’ etc. Lower respiratory tract infections coded 
to ‘infection’ accounted for only 3% to 5% of the total. The majority was recorded as being of mild or 
moderate severity.  
Serious adverse events (SAEs) and deaths 
As of the cut-off date, 24 emtricitabine-treated patients had died. In the controlled, long-term studies 
in  HIV-infected  adults  4/1010  (0.4%)  emtricitabine-treated  patients  and  10/861  (1.2%)  patients  in 
comparator treatment arms died. In uncontrolled long-term studies in adults the death incidence was 
20/1670  (1.2%).  Overall,  the  death  rate  in  emtricitabine-treated  patients  across  both  controlled  and 
uncontrolled  studies  was  low  24/2465  (0.97%).  Most  of  the  deaths  in  emtricitabine  patients  were 
considered unrelated to emtricitabine and were mainly consistent with HIV-associated complications. 
In  addition,  one  full-term  infant  (HIV  positive)  that  was  born  to  a  female  in  study  FTC-302  died 
approximately 7.5 weeks after delivery. The cause of death appears to have been septicaemia and HIV 
infection.  
There  were  93  (11.4%)  emtricitabine  patients  who  reported  SAEs  compared  with  98  (14.7%)  in  the 
combined  control  group.  SAEs  reported  in  ≥ 1%  of  patients  in  the  emtricitabine  group  were  AST 
increased  (emtricitabine  2.2%,  control  1.1%),  ALT  increased  (2.5%,  control  3.0%)  and  pneumonia 
(1.5%,  control  1.1%).  All  emtricitabine-treated  patients  with  SAEs  of  kidney  calculus  in  controlled 
studies were on indinavir concomitantly. Treatment-related SAEs included increased ALT, increased 
AST, hepatitis, and cellulitis.  
Laboratory findings 
Table 13 shows all grade 3 /4 laboratory abnormalities in the three main studies. The most common 
grade  3  /  4  laboratory  abnormalities  in  emtricitabine  patients  were  increases  in  creatine  kinase, 
triglycerides, and ALT and AST.  
Table  13:  Grade  3  /  4  Laboratory  Abnormalities  in  ≥ 1%  Emtricitabine-Treated  Patients  in  Pooled 
Studies 301A, 302 and 303 (0-48 Weeks) 
Total With at Least 1 
Abnormality ≥ grade 3 severity 
Creatine kinase 
Triglycerides 
AST (SGOT) 
ALT (SGPT) 
Neutrophils 
Serum Amylase 
Serum glucose (increased) 
Serum lipase 
Total bilirubin 
Pancreatic amylase 
Week 48 Pooled Safety Population 
(Controlled Studies) 
Emtricitabine (N = 814) 
N 
244 
% 
30.0% 
Control (N = 665 ) 
% 
N 
31.7% 
211 
83 
56 
44 
43 
36 
23 
14 
11 
9 
8 
10.2% 
6.9% 
5.4% 
5.3% 
4.4% 
2.8% 
1.7% 
1.4% 
1.1% 
1.0% 
68 
30 
45 
50 
31 
37 
8 
9 
12 
7 
10.2% 
4.5% 
6.8% 
7.5% 
4.7% 
5.6% 
1.2% 
1.4% 
1.8% 
1.1% 
Grade 4 abnormalities included elevations in CPK, ALT, AST and triglycerides. Generally, incidences 
of Grade 3 or 4 abnormalities were higher in the first 6 months and declined slightly over time. Similar 
findings applied in the uncontrolled studies.  
26/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In FTC-302, the overall rates of increases in ALT and AST were 13-19% per treatment group. In fact, 
there  were  66/385  (17%)  patients  in  the  nevirapine  stratum  reported  with  some  degree  of 
hepatotoxicity, of which 37 had been randomised to lamivudine (19%) and 29 to emtricitabine (15%). 
The  sub-analyses  reported  showed  that  there  was  no  excess  of  abnormalities  in  the  emtricitabine 
group. 
Special populations 
HIV/HBV  co-infected  patients  in  emtricitabine  and  comparator  groups  had  a  higher  incidence  of 
Grade 3 or 4 ALT and AST elevations compared with HBsAg negative patients. However, there were 
no notable differences between treatment groups in either sub-population. 
Caution  should  be  exercised  when  emtricitabine  is  used  in  co-infected  HIV-HBV  patients  as 
mentioned in the SPC. 
In HCV/HIV co-infected patients, Grade 3 or 4 elevations in ALT or AST among emtricitabine-treated 
HCV+  patients  were  similar  in  incidence  to  that  observed  among  HCV+  patients  in  the  control 
treatment  groups.  Co-infected  patients  had  a  higher  incidence  of  Grade  3  or  4  ALT  and  AST 
elevations. 
Children 
Data  were  available  from  FTC-203  and  more  limited  data  from  FTC-202.  At  the  cut-off  dates,  120 
subjects ≤ 21 years had been enrolled, of which 114 were < 18 years of age at baseline and had taken 
emtricitabine for a median of 36.1 weeks.  
No deaths had been reported among children but there had been 22 SAEs in 17 subjects. In treatment-
naïve subjects, the most common SAE was pneumonia, with six events in five subjects that were all 
assessed  as  unrelated  to  emtricitabine.  Four  subjects  experienced  adverse  events  that  resulted  in  the 
permanent  discontinuation  of  study  treatment.  These  were  two  cases  of  rash  and  one  of  each  of 
pancreatitis and anaemia (three were reported as SAEs) that were assessed as possibly and probably 
related to emtricitabine or, at least, to study treatment.  
The  overall  incidence  of  adverse  events  of  at  least  moderate  severity  was  similar  in  treatment-naive 
subjects (37.3%) and treatment-experienced subjects (35.5%). Eight subjects had at least one Grade 3 
(severe)  or  Grade 4  (potentially  life-threatening)  adverse  event  (three  treatment-naïve  and  five 
treatment-experienced  subjects).  These  included  cases  of  pneumonia,  sinusitis,  gastroenteritis, 
leucopenia, anaemia, cellulitis and tooth caries.  
The  overall  incidence  of  emtricitabine-related  adverse  events  (all  grades)  was  markedly  higher  in 
treatment-naïve  subjects  (54.9%)  than  in  treatment-experienced  subjects  (12.9%).  In  treatment-naïve 
subjects,  the  most  frequent  (≥ 5%)  emtricitabine-related  adverse  events  were  skin  discoloration 
(39.2%), vomiting (17.6%), and nausea (5.9%) compared with leucopenia and anaemia in two (6.5%) 
experienced subjects. Skin discoloration was usually reported as hyperpigmentation (which in all cases 
was  asymptomatic),  mainly  affecting  the  palms  of  the  hands  and/or  the  soles  of  the  feet.  This  was 
assessed as being mild in severity and (with one exception) occurred in persons classed as black. This 
has been reported in HIV-infected adults and HBV-infected adults. It is thought that this is similar to 
changes in skin and nail pigmentation reported in black patients treated with zidovudine. 
Almost all (97.6%) subjects had at least one treatment-emergent laboratory abnormality but < 5% had 
a  Grade 3  or  Grade 4  abnormality  and  only  one  subject  with  Grade 3  decreased  haemoglobin 
discontinued due to these findings. 
Pregnancies 
Despite  the  measures  as  laid  down  in  the  protocols,  79  pregnancies  occurred  in  77  women  (53  on 
emtricitabine),  mostly  in  South  Africa.  There  has  been  no  excess  of  spontaneous  abortions  and  no 
birth defects have been reported. 
27/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
The  active  substance  is  well  characterised  and  documented.  The  pharmaceutical  forms  selected  are 
adequate  taken  into  account  the  properties  and  stability  of  the  active  substance.  The  excipients  are 
commonly  used  in  this  kind  of  formulations  and  the  packaging  materials  are  well  documented.  The 
manufacturing processes enhance to obtain reproducible finished product batches. Stability tests under 
ICH conditions indicate that the product is stable for the proposed shelf life. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Emtricitabine, which is an inhibitor of the HIV reverse transcriptase, presents an antiviral activity both 
in vitro and in vivo against laboratory and clinical isolates compatible with a potential clinical use for 
the  treatment  of  HIV  infection.  The  general  pharmacology  studies  showed  no  treatment  related 
adverse  effects  at  systemic  exposure  levels  much  higher  than  those  anticipated  in  patients  at  the 
recommended clinical dose. HIV-1 resistance, as observed in vitro and in HIV-1 infected patients to 
emtricitabine develops as the result of changes at codon 184 causing the methionine to be changed to a 
valine  of  the  HIV  reverse  transcriptase.  Emtricitabine  resistant  viruses  were  cross-resistant  to 
lamivudine but remained sensitive to other NRTIs, NNRTIs and PIs. Viruses resistant to zidovudine, 
zalcitabine, didanosine and NNRTIs remained sensitive to emtricitabine. 
The  pharmacokinetics  profile  determined  in  mice,  rats  and  monkeys  showed  that  emtricitabine  is 
rapidly  absorbed  after  oral  administration,  widely  distributed,  and  is  eliminated  primarily  by  renal 
excretion as unchanged compound.  
Overall, the toxicology programme showed that emtricitabine has a low toxicity potential. Treatment 
effects in the repeated dose toxicity studies were limited to high doses only, which provided systemic 
exposure  levels  much  higher  than  those  expected  in  humans  at  the  clinical  doses,  and  primarily 
consisted of changes in the red cells parameters, considered as mild regenerative anaemia. There was 
no  evidence  of  toxicity  to  reproduction  neither  in  mice,  rats  or  rabbits.  Emtricitabine  was  not 
genotoxic.  Final  results  from  the  carcinogenicity  studies  are  not  yet  available,  but  this  was  justified 
and in view of the benefit/risk ratio, the CPMP considered a marketing authorisation could be granted 
prior the availability of these results. However the applicant undertook to submit the final results as 
part of the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation. 
Efficacy 
The  relationship  between  the  dose  and  the  antiviral  effect  of  emtricitabine  was  investigated  in  two 
short-term monotherapy studies.  
The  dose  of  emtricitabine  selected  for  the  main  clinical  studies,  200  mg  once  daily,  has  been 
reasonably justified. Studies suggested that emtricitabine might be about 20 % more bioavailable from 
the capsule than from the oral solution.  
The  pharmacokinetics  profile  of  emtricitabine  was  well  defined  and  relevant  information  has  been 
included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. Overall, after oral administration, emtricitabine is 
rapidly and extensively absorbed and widely distributed. The binding to plasma protein is very low. 
There is limited metabolism and emtricitabine is primary excreted via renal route as unchanged drug. 
Exposure  to  emtricitabine  is  significantly  increased  in  patients  with  renal  impairment.  Daily  dose 
reduction  using  the  oral  solution  or  dose  interval  adjustment  using  the  capsules  is  required  when 
creatinine clearance is below 50 ml/min, as recommended in the Summary of Product Characteristics.  
Data in infants, children and adolescents (4 months to 18 years) showed that administration of 6 mg/kg 
emtricitabine as the oral solution (up to a maximum of 240 mg once daily) gives similar exposure as in 
28/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adults dosed with one 200 mg hard capsule daily. Due to the difference of bioavailability between the 
hard capsule and the oral solution, one 200 mg capsule should provide similar plasma levels to 240 mg 
emtricitabine administered as the oral solution. 
Treatment-naïve subjects 
Study FTC-301A showed a clear advantage of a 200 mg q.d. regimen of emtricitabine compared with 
stavudine when administered in combination with once daily didanosine and efavirenz, with an overall 
proportion of patients with plasma HIV RNA below the limit of quantification (50 copies/ml) in the 
ITT  population  (NC  =  F)  population  of  80.9  %  at  24  weeks  (69.6  %  in  the  stavudine  arm)  and 
persisting at 48 weeks (72.9 % against 55.6 % in the stavudine arm).  
In contrast, study FTC-302 showed that emtricitabine plus stavudine and either nevirapine or efavirenz 
was  generally  numerically  inferior  to  similar  lamivudine  regimens.  However,  similar  proportions  of 
patients achieved a viral load suppression of ≤ 50 copies/ml (60.2 % in the emtricitabine arm versus 
63.8 % in the lamivudine arm, ITT population with NC=F)) and by-stratum tabulations demonstrated 
no numerical inferiority for emtricitabine in the proportions reaching ≤ 50 copies/ml or in the rate of 
efficacy failure in the two strata with the higher baseline HIV RNA loads. Overall, the data supported 
the use of emtricitabine 200 mg q.d. for initial therapy for treatment naïve adult patients and suggested 
that  efficacy  might  be  particularly  good  when  emtricitabine  is  combined  with  didanosine  and 
efavirenz.  
Treatment-experienced patients 
The design of study FTC-303, in which patients still responding to a lamivudine-containing regimen 
were randomised to continue or to supplant lamivudine with emtricitabine while continuing on other 
compounds as before, was not inappropriate given the virological activity and nature of emtricitabine. 
In  the  primary  analysis  as  planned,  it  appeared  that  patients  who  switched  from  lamivudine  to 
emtricitabine  were  less  likely  to  maintain  HIV  RNA  ≤  400  copies/ml  (73  %  versus  82  %  in  the 
lamivudine  arm)  and  to  achieve  /  maintain  HIV  RNA  ≤  50  copies/ml  after  48  weeks  (68  %  versus 
75 % in the lamivudine arm) (lower 95 % around the differences for these parameters were –13.5 % 
and  –13%,  respectively).  However,  several  retrospective  analyses,  included  the  time  to  loss  of 
virological response (TLOVR analysis) were submitted to support the non-inferiority of emtricitabine 
compared  to  lamivudine.  While  the  TLOVR  analysis  showed  that  patients  were  numerically  more 
likely  to  fail  if  they  switched  to  emtricitabine,  the  lower  95%  CI  was  within  –10%.  Among  the 
additional analyses, the “as treated” population and the LOCF approach showed very similar response 
rates at the < 400 copies/ml level, with lower 95% CI within –6%.  
The findings from ANRS-099 [ALIZE], where patients with stable suppression of HIV-1 RNA either 
continued  on  PI-based  HAART  or  replaced  the  entire  regimen  with  once  daily  HAART  containing 
emtricitabine further support the efficacy of emtricitabine when used as part of an entirely once daily 
HAART regimen. In both treatment arms a high proportion of patients maintained suppression of HIV 
RNA  (< 400  copies/ml)  for  48  weeks  (94%  and  92%  for  the  emtricitabine  and  maintenance  groups, 
respectively – ITT available data). The treatment difference of –1.6% with a 95% confidence interval 
of –3.8%, 7.0%, supports the non-inferiority of the once daily emtricitabine regimen to the PI-based 
regimen. 
There  is  no  clinical  experience  of  the  use  of  emtricitabine  in  patients  who  are  failing  their  current 
regimen or who have failed multiple regimens. 
Children 
The  results from  the two  ongoing  clinical studies in  children (>  4  months to 18 years) satisfactorily 
demonstrated the efficacy of emtricitabine when given at 6 mg/kg/day as oral solution or as 200 mg 
q.d.  as  capsules  in  combination  with  other  ART.  After  24  weeks  with  stable  virological  control 
treatment, 90.8 % of naïve patients (69/76) and 83.9% of treatment-experienced children had achieved 
or  maintained  suppression  of  their  HIV-1  RNA  below  ≤ 400 copies/ml.  In  addition,  69.7%  of  naïve 
patients  (53/76)  and  71%  of  treatment-experienced  children  (22/31)  also  achieved  or  maintained 
≤ 50 copies/ml.  The  final  results  will  be  submitted  as  part  of  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled 
post-authorisation. 
29/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
The most common emtricitabine-related adverse events were very much as expected from a NRTI that 
is structurally related to lamivudine. Nausea, diarrhoea, headache, asthenia, rashes and dizziness were 
all  very  commonly  or  at  least  commonly  reported  in  several  studies  i.e.  in  conjunction  with  several 
different treatment regimens. For the most part, the incidences of adverse events declined with time. In 
part,  this  likely  reflects  withdrawals  due  to  events  although;  given  the  withdrawal  rates,  there  must 
also be an element of patients becoming more tolerant (or less likely to report) the more minor adverse 
events over time.  
Among the events of special interest, emtricitabine per se does not appear to be very likely to trigger 
clinically  significant  anaemia,  hyperlactataemia  or  pancreatitis  and  seems  no  more  likely  than 
lamivudine to contribute to the overall incidence of peripheral neuropathy. 
The data in children did not suggest other potential adverse events than those observed in adults.  
Two  years’  safety  data  were  reported  for  607  HIV-infected  adult  patients  in  this  application.  This 
number was considered to be sufficient to meet the requirements of the CPMP Note for Guidance on 
the clinical development of medicinal products for treatment of HIV infection (CPMP/EWP/633/02). 
However  the  applicant  undertook  to  provide  proposals  for  pro-active  post-marketing  assessments  of 
safety  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  stated  in  the  CPMP’s  Note  for  Guidance.  These 
requirements include the need to conduct long-term post-marketing studies, as well as participation in, 
or sponsoring of, pharmaco-epidemiological studies that may be appropriate to the assessment of the 
long-term safety of emtricitabine. 
Benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
decision that the benefit/risk profile of Emtriva 200 mg hard capsules and 10 mg/ml oral solution was 
favourable  in  the  treatment  of  HIV-1  infection  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation in the following indication: 
“Emtriva is indicated for the treatment of HIV-1 infected adults and children in combination 
with other antiretroviral agents. 
This indication is based on studies in treatment-naïve patients and treatment-experienced 
patients with stable virological control. There is no experience of the use of Emtriva in patients 
who are failing their current regimen or who have failed multiple regimens. 
When deciding on a new regimen for patients who have failed an antiretroviral regimen, careful 
consideration should  be  given to the  patterns  of  mutations  associated  with  different  medicinal 
products and the treatment history of the individual patient. Where available, resistance testing 
may be appropriate.” 
30/30 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
