EMA/460206/2019 
EMEA/H/C/004137 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva (emtricitabine / 
tenofovir disoproxil) 
An overview of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva and why it is 
authorised in the EU 
What is Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva and what is it used for? 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is used in combination with at least one other HIV medicine 
to treat adults infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), a virus that causes 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). In addition it may be used from the age of 12 years in 
adolescents with HIV that is resistant to first-line treatments or who cannot take them because of side 
effects. 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is also used to help prevent sexually transmitted HIV-1 
infection in adults and adolescents who are at high risk of being infected (pre-exposure prophylaxis or 
PrEP). It should be used in combination with safer sex practices, such as use of condoms. 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva contains two active substances, emtricitabine (200 mg) and 
tenofovir disoproxil (245 mg). It is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil Zentiva contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Truvada. For more information on generic medicines, see 
the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva used? 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment 
should be started by a doctor who is experienced in managing HIV infection. 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is available as tablets. The recommended dose for treating 
or preventing HIV-1 infection is one tablet once a day, preferably taken with food. If patients with HIV-
1 infection need to stop taking emtricitabine or tenofovir, or need to take different doses, they will 
need to take medicines containing emtricitabine or tenofovir disoproxil separately. 
For more information about using Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva, see the package leaflet or 
contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva work? 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva contains two active substances: emtricitabine, which is a 
nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor; and tenofovir disoproxil, which is a ‘prodrug’ of tenofovir. 
This means that it is converted into tenofovir in the body. Tenofovir is a nucleotide reverse 
transcriptase inhibitor. Both emtricitabine and tenofovir work in similar ways by blocking the activity of 
reverse transcriptase, an enzyme produced by HIV that allows it to infect cells and make more viruses.  
For the treatment of HIV-1 infection, Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva, taken in combination 
with at least one other HIV medicine, reduces the amount of HIV in the blood and keeps it at a low 
level. Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva does not cure HIV infection or AIDS, but it may hold 
off damage to the immune system and the development of infections and diseases associated with 
AIDS. 
For pre-exposure prophylaxis of HIV-1 infection, it is expected that Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
Zentiva in the blood will stop the virus from multiplying and spreading from the site of infection in case 
the individual is exposed to the virus. 
Both active substances have been authorised in the EU since the early 2000s: emtricitabine was 
authorised as Emtriva in 2003, and tenofovir disoproxil was authorised as Viread in 2002. 
How has Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substances in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Truvada, and do not need to be repeated for 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil Zentiva. The company also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the 
reference medicine. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active 
substance in the body and are therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
Zentiva? 
Because Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the 
reference medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to Truvada. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Truvada, the benefits of 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use 
in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva? 
The company that markets Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva will provide an information pack 
to doctors, which covers the potential harmful effects of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva on 
kidney function, and information about use in adults for pre-exposure prophylaxis. Healthcare 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 
EMA/460206/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
professionals will also receive a brochure and reminder card to hand out to individuals receiving the 
medicine for pre-exposure prophylaxis. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva have also been included in the summary 
of product characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva are continuously 
monitored. Side effects reported with Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva are carefully evaluated 
and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU 
on 9 November 2016. 
Further information on Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/emtricitabinetenofovir-disoproxil-zentiva. Information 
on the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 09-2019. 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva 
EMA/460206/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
