EMA/721606/2016 
EMEA/H/C/000533 
EPAR summary for the public 
Emtriva 
emtricitabine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Emtriva. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Emtriva. 
For practical information about using Emtriva, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Emtriva and what is it used for? 
Emtriva is an antiviral medicine for treating adults and children infected with human immunodeficiency 
virus type 1 (HIV-1), a virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS).  
Emtriva is used in combination with other antiviral medicines and contains the active substance 
emtricitabine. 
How is Emtriva used? 
Emtriva is available as capsules (200 mg) and as a solution (10 mg/ml) to be taken by mouth. The 
usual dose of Emtriva is one capsule once a day for patients who weigh 33 kg or more. The oral 
solution is for patients who weigh less than 33 kg, and those who cannot swallow the capsules. The 
usual dose of oral solution is 6 mg per kilogram body weight once a day, up to a maximum of 240 mg 
(24 ml). The dose may need to be adjusted in patients who have problems with their kidneys.  
For patients who have taken medicines to treat their HIV infection before and did not respond to that 
treatment, doctors should only prescribe Emtriva once they have looked at the antiviral medicines the 
patient has taken before and assessed the likelihood of the virus’s response to any new antiviral 
medicines that might be prescribed. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Emtriva should only be started by a doctor experienced in managing HIV infections. The medicine can 
only be obtained with a prescription.  
How does Emtriva work? 
The active substance in Emtriva, emtricitabine, is a nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI). It 
blocks the activity of reverse transcriptase, an enzyme made by the virus that allows it to reproduce 
itself in the cells it has infected. Emtriva, taken in combination with other antiviral medicines, reduces 
the amount of HIV in the blood and keeps it at a low level. Emtriva does not cure HIV infection or 
AIDS, but it can hold off the damage to the immune system and the development of infections and 
diseases associated with AIDS. 
What benefits of Emtriva have been shown in studies? 
Studies have shown that Emtriva, in combination with other antiviral medicines, reduces viral loads in 
HIV-infected patients and compares well with other medicines used in combination. The results from 
three main studies are as follows: 
• 
• 
• 
In a study of 571 previously untreated adults, more patients taking Emtriva (in combination with 
didanosine and efavirenz) had viral loads below 50 copies/ml after 24 weeks of treatment than 
those taking stavudine (81% and 70%, respectively). This difference was maintained after 48 
weeks of treatment (73% and 56%).  
In another study in 468 previously untreated patients, Emtriva was as effective as lamivudine 
(both taken in combination with stavudine and either efavirenz or nevirapine). In this study after 
48 weeks, around two thirds of the patients had viral loads below 400 copies/ml, and slightly fewer 
had viral loads below 50 copies/ml.  
In a third study in 459 patients who had been taking three antiviral medicines (including 
lamivudine), the number of patients switching from lamivudine to Emtriva who had viral loads 
below 400 copies/ml after 48 weeks was similar to the number of those who continued taking 
lamivudine (73% and 82%, respectively). 
Similar results on effectiveness were seen in two studies involving 120 children and adolescents taking 
Emtriva in combination with other antiviral medicines. 
What is the risk associated with Emtriva? 
The most common side effects with Emtriva (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are headache, 
diarrhoea, nausea (feeling sick), and elevated creatine kinase levels in the blood (an enzyme found in 
muscles). Skin discoloration was very common in children. For the full list of side effects and 
restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Emtriva approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Emtriva’s benefits 
are greater than its risks for the treatment of HIV-1 infected adults and children in combination with 
other antiretroviral agents.  The Committee noted that this indication is based on studies in patients 
who have not received HIV treatment before, or whose HIV is already well controlled with antiviral 
medicines, and that there was no experience of Emtriva in patients whose previous treatment for HIV 
was not working. The Committee recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
Emtriva  
EMA/721606/2016 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Emtriva? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Emtriva have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Emtriva: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Emtriva on 24 October 2003.  
The full EPAR for Emtriva can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Emtriva, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2016. 
Emtriva  
EMA/721606/2016 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
