EMA/13195/2019 
EMEA/H/C/004686 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. (emtricitabine 
/ tenofovir disoproxil) 
An overview of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. and why it is 
authorised in the EU 
What is Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. and what is it used 
for? 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. is an HIV medicine that is used in combination with at least 
one other HIV medicine to treat adults infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), a 
virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). In addition, it may be used in 
adolescents who are resistant to first-line treatments or who cannot take them because of side effects. 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d contains two active substances, emtricitabine and tenofovir 
disoproxil. It is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that it contains the same active substances and works 
in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Truvada. For more 
information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. used? 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment 
should be started by a doctor who has experience in the management of HIV infection. 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. is available as tablets (200 mg emtricitabine and 245 mg 
tenofovir disoproxil). The recommended dose is one tablet once a day, preferably taken with food. If 
patients need to stop taking emtricitabine or tenofovir, or need to take different doses, they will need 
to take medicines containing emtricitabine or tenofovir disoproxil separately. 
For more informationabout using Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d., see the package leaflet 
or contact your doctor or pharmacist.  
How does Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. work? 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. contains two active substances: emtricitabine, which is a 
nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor; and tenofovir disoproxil, which is a ‘prodrug’ of tenofovir. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
This means that it is converted into tenofovir in the body. Tenofovir is a nucleotide reverse 
transcriptase inhibitor. Both emtricitabine and tenofovir work in similar ways by blocking the activity of 
reverse transcriptase, an enzyme produced by HIV that allows it to reproduce itself in the cells it has 
infected. 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d., taken in combination with at least one other antiviral 
medicine, reduces the amount of HIV in the blood and keeps it at a low level. Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil Krka d.d. does not cure HIV infection or AIDS, but it holds off the damage to the immune 
system and the development of infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
How has Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substances in the authorised use have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Truvada, and do not need to be repeated for 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil Krka d.d. The company also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the 
reference medicine. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active 
substances in the body and are therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka 
d.d.? 
Because Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the 
reference medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to Truvada. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Truvada, the benefit of 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. outweighs the identified risk and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d.? 
The company that markets Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. will provide an information 
pack to doctors which covers the potential harmful effects of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka 
d.d. on kidney function in adults and children. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. have also been included in the 
summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. are continuously 
monitored. Side effects reported with Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka are carefully evaluated 
and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. (emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil)  
EMA/13195/2019 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. on 28 April 2017.  
Further information on Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/emtricitabinetenofovir-disoproxil-krka-dd. 
Information on the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 01-2019. 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka d.d. (emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil)  
EMA/13195/2019 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
