Summary of the Risk Management Plan 
C2-Internal 
risk  management  plan 
for  Emtricitabine/Tenofovir  disoproxil  Zentiva 
Summary  of 
(emtricitabine/tenofovir disoproxil) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva. 
The RMP details important risks of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva, how these risks can be 
minimised,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about  Emtricitabine/Tenofovir  disoproxil 
Zentiva's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir  disoproxil  Zentiva's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its 
package  leaflet  give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva should be read in the context 
of  all  this  information  including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva's RMP. 
included  in  updates  of 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is authorised for antiretroviral combination therapy for the 
treatment of HIV-1 infected adults and adolescents. It is also authorised for pre-exposure prophylaxis 
(PrEP) in combination with safer sex practices to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1 infection in 
adults  and  adolescents  at  high  risk  (see  SmPC  for  the  full  indication).  It  contains  emtricitabine  and 
tenofovir as the active substances and it is given by oral route. 
Further information about the evaluation of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva’s benefits can 
be  found  in  Emtricitabine/Tenofovir  disoproxil  Zentiva’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language 
the  medicine’s  webpage: 
EMA  website, 
summary, 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/emtricitabine-tenofovir-disoproxil-
zentiva. 
available 
under 
the 
on 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the 
risks  
Important  risks  of  Emtricitabine/Tenofovir  disoproxil  Zentiva,  together  with  measures  to  minimise 
such  risks  and  the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more  about  Emtricitabine/Tenofovir  disoproxil 
Zentiva's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (e.g.  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C2-Internal 
In  the  case  of  Emtricitabine/Tenofovir  disoproxil  Zentiva,  these  measures  are  supplemented  with 
additional risk minimisation measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly analysed, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva is 
not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Emtricitabine/Tenofovir  disoproxil  Zentiva  are  risks  that  need  special  risk 
management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can 
be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns 
for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on 
available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and 
needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
•  HIV-1  acquisition,  including  infection  resulting  from  non-
adherence (PrEP indication) (ETZ) 
•  Development of resistance in patients with unrecognized 
or acute HIV-1 infection (PrEP indication) (ETZ) 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
•  None 
•  Safety in pregnancy and lactation (TD) 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Summary of important risks that have corresponding additional risk minimisation activities are: 
HIV-1 acquisition, including infection resulting from non-adherence (PrEP indication) 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.4 
PL section 2 and 3 
Prescription only medicine.  
The therapy should be initiated by a physician experienced in the 
management of HIV infection. 
Routine  risk  minimization  activities  recommending  specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
SmPC  Section  4.4:  Warning  that  HIV-1  uninfected  individuals 
should be counselled at frequent intervals to strictly adhere to the 
recommended  Emtricitabine/Tenofovir  disoproxil  Zentiva  daily 
dosing schedule. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Educational materials for physicians and individuals at risk 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C2-Internal 
•  PrEP educational brochure for prescribers 
•  PrEP Checklist for prescribers 
•  PrEP educational brochure for the individual at risk 
•  PrEP reminder card 
Development  of    resistance  in  patients  with  unrecognized  or  acute  HIV-1  infection  (PrEP 
indication) 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.3 and 4.4 
PL section 2 
Prescription only medicine.  
The therapy should be initiated by a physician experienced in the 
management of HIV infection. 
Routine  risk  minimization  activities  recommending  specific 
clinical measures to address the risk: 
SmPC  Section  4.4:  Warning  that  individuals  should  be  re-
confirmed to be HIV-negative at frequent intervals (e.g., at least 
every 3 months) using a combined antigen/antibody test  while 
taking Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva for PrEP. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Educational materials for physicians and individuals at risk 
•  PrEP educational brochure for prescribers 
•  PrEP Checklist for prescribers 
•  PrEP educational brochure for the individual at risk 
•  PrEP reminder card 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorisation  or  specific  obligation  of 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Zentiva. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
