EMA/13521/2019 
EMEA/H/C/004050 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan (emtricitabine / 
tenofovir disoproxil) 
An overview of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan and why it is 
authorised in the EU 
What is Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan and what is it used for? 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan is an HIV medicine that is used in combination with at least 
one other HIV medicine to treat adults infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), a 
virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). In addition, it may be used in 
adolescents with HIV who are resistant to first-line treatments or who cannot take them because of 
side effects. 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan is also used to help prevent sexually transmitted HIV-1 
infection in adults and adolescents who are at high risk of being infected (pre-exposure prophylaxis or 
PrEP). It should be used in combination with safer sex practices, such as use of condoms. 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan contains two active substances, emtricitabine and tenofovir 
disoproxil. It is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that it contains the same active substances and works 
in the same way as a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the EU called Truvada. For more 
information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan used? 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should 
be started by a doctor who has experience in the management of HIV infection. 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan is available as tablets (200 mg emtricitabine and 245 mg 
tenofovir disoproxil). The recommended dose for treating or preventing HIV-1 infection is one tablet 
once a day, preferably taken with food. If patients need to stop taking emtricitabine or tenofovir, or 
need to take different doses, they will need to take medicines containing emtricitabine or tenofovir 
disoproxil separately. 
For more information about using Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan, see the package leaflet or 
contact your doctor or pharmacist.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan work? 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan contains two active substances: emtricitabine, which is a 
nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor; and tenofovir disoproxil, which is a ‘prodrug’ of tenofovir. 
This means that it is converted into tenofovir in the body. Tenofovir is a nucleotide reverse 
transcriptase inhibitor. Both emtricitabine and tenofovir work in similar ways by blocking the activity of 
reverse transcriptase, an enzyme produced by HIV that allows it to reproduce itself in the cells it has 
infected. 
For the treatment of HIV-infection, Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan, taken in combination with 
at least one other HIV medicine, reduces the amount of HIV in the blood and keeps it at a low level. 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan does not cure HIV infection or AIDS, but it holds off damage 
to the immune system and the development of infections and diseases associated with AIDS. 
For pre-exposure prophylaxis of HIV-1 infection, it is expected that Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
Mylan in the blood will stop the virus from multiplying and spreading from the site of infection in case 
the individual is exposed to the virus. 
How has Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substances in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Truvada, and do not need to be repeated for 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan. 
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil Mylan. The company also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the 
reference medicine. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active 
substance in the body and are therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
Mylan? 
Because Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the 
reference medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan has been shown to have comparable quality and to be 
bioequivalent to Truvada. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as for Truvada, the benefit of 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan outweighs the identified risk and it can be authorised for use 
in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan? 
The company that markets Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan will provide an information pack to 
doctors which covers the potential harmful effects of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan on 
kidney function and information about use for pre-exposure prophylaxis. Healthcare professionals will 
also receive a brochure and reminder card to hand out to individuals receiving the medicine for pre-
exposure prophylaxis. 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan (emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil)  
EMA/13521/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan have also been included in the summary 
of product characteristics and the package leaflet.   
As for all medicines, data on the use of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan are continuously 
monitored. Side effects reported with Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan are carefully evaluated 
and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 
16 December 2016. 
Further information on Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/emtricitabinetenofovir-disoproxil-mylan. Information on the 
reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 01-2019. 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan (emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil)  
EMA/13521/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
