13 October 2016 
EMA/CHMP/636453/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan  
International non-proprietary name: emtricitabine / tenofovir disoproxil 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/004050/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ......................................................... 7 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 1 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 8 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 9 
2.2.2. Active substance ............................................................................................... 9 
2.2.3. Finished medicinal product ................................................................................ 14 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects ............................................ 18 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 18 
2.2.6. Recommendation(s) for future quality development ............................................. 18 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 18 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 18 
2.3.2. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 19 
2.3.3. Discussion on non-clinical aspects...................................................................... 19 
2.3.4. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ................................................................ 19 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 19 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 19 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 20 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 33 
2.4.4. Post marketing experience ................................................................................ 33 
2.4.5. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 33 
2.4.6. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 34 
2.5. Risk management plan ........................................................................................ 34 
2.6. PSUR submission ................................................................................................ 37 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance .............................................................................................. 37 
2.8. Product information ............................................................................................ 37 
2.8.1. User consultation ............................................................................................. 38 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 38 
4. Recommendation ................................................................................... 38 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 2/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
AE  
Adverse events 
API 
Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
AR 
Assessment Report 
AS 
Active substance 
ASM 
Active Substance Manufacturer 
ASMF  Active Substance Master File = Drug Master File 
AUC   Area under the curve 
BCS   Biopharmaceutics Classification System 
CFU 
Colony Forming Units 
CHMP   Committee for Medicinal Products for Human use  
Cmax   Maximum concentration 
CPP   Critical process parameter 
CQA   Critical Quality Attribute 
CV  
Coefficient of variation 
EC 
European Commission 
ECG   Electrocardiogram 
EDTA   Ethylene diamine tetra acetic acid 
EMA   European Medicines Agency 
EU  
European Union 
FPM 
Finished Product Manufacturer 
FT-IR  Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy 
GC    Gas Chromatography 
GC-MS  Gas chromatography mass spectrometry 
GCP   Good Clinical Practice 
GLP   Good Laboratory Practice 
GMP  Good Manufacturing Practice 
HBV   Hepatitis B virus 
HDPE  High Density Polyethylene 
HIV   Human immunodeficiency virus 
HIV-1   Human immunodeficiency virus Type 1, 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 3/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HPLC    High performance liquid chromatography 
Hr  
Hour 
ICH      International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of 
Pharmaceuticals for Human Use 
IPC 
In-process control 
IR 
IU 
Infrared 
International Units 
KF  
Karl Fischer titration 
LDPE  Low density polyethylene 
LOD 
Loss on drying 
LoD 
Limit of Detection 
LOQ 
Limit of Quantitation 
LoQ 
List of Questions 
LT 
Less than 
MA 
Marketing Authorisation 
MAH  Marketing Authorisation holder 
MS 
Mass Spectrometry 
ND 
Not detected 
NLT 
Not less than 
NMR  Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
NMT  Not more than 
P  
Probability p value 
PDE 
Permitted Daily Exposure 
PE 
Polyethylene 
Ph.Eur. European Pharmacopoeia 
PIL 
Patient Information Leaflet 
PK  
Pharmacokinetics 
p.o.  
Per os 
PP 
Polypropylene  
PVC 
Poly vinyl chloride 
QOS  Quality Overall Summary 
QC 
Quality Control 
R or B  Reference product 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 4/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RH 
Relative Humidity 
RP 
Restricted Part (or Closed Part) of an ASMF 
Rpm   Revolutions per minute 
RRT 
Relative retention time 
RSD 
Relative standard deviation  
SAE   Serious adverse event 
SAS   Statistical Analysis System 
SD  
Standard deviation 
SmPC  Summary of product characteristics. 
SOP   Standard operation procedure 
T or A   Test product 
t1/2  
Elimination half-life 
t0  
Time of drug administration 
TGA 
Thermo-Gravimetric Analysis 
tlast  
tmax  
Time of last measurable concentration 
Time to reach the maximal concentration 
TLC 
Thin layer chromatography 
TSE 
Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy 
TTC 
Threshold of toxicological concern 
USP/NF United States Pharmacopoeia/National Formulary 
UV 
Ultraviolet 
V  
Volume 
XRD 
X-Ray Diffraction 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 5/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant MYLAN S.A.S. submitted on 7 July 2015 an application for marketing authorisation to the 
European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan, through the centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised 
product’.  
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference product for which a marketing authorisation is or has been granted 
in in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3).  
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan is a fixed dose combination of emtricitabine and tenofovir 
disoproxil. It is indicated in antiretroviral combination therapy for the treatment of HIV-1 infected adults 
aged 18 years and over. 
The demonstration of the benefit of the combination emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil in 
antiretroviral therapy is based solely on studies performed in treatment-naabine and tenofovir disoproxil  
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and a 
bioequivalence study with the reference medicinal product Truvada instead of non-clinical and clinical 
unless justified otherwise. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition 
related to the proposed indication. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force for 
not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
 
 
 
 
 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Truvada, 200mg/245mg, film-coated tablet 
Marketing authorisation holder: Gilead Sciences International Limited 
Date of authorisation: 21-02-2005 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Community 
Community Marketing authorisation number: : EU/1/04/305/001-002 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 6/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
 
 
 
 
 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Truvada, 200mg/245mg, film-coated tablet 
Marketing authorisation holder: Gilead Sciences International Limited 
Date of authorisation: 21-02-2005 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Community 
Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/04/305/001-002 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in force and 
to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
 
 
 
 
 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Truvada, 200mg/245mg, film-coated tablet 
Marketing authorisation holder: Gilead Sciences International Limited 
Date of authorisation: 21-02-2005 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation number(s): EU/1/04/305/001-002 
Bioavailability study number(s): TEEM – 14-021 
Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
Romaldas Mačiulaitis 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 7 July 2015.  
The procedure started on 23 July 2015. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 October 2015. 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all PRAC members on 22 October 
2015. 
 
During the meeting on 6 November 2015 the PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and 
Advice to CHMP. The PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice was sent to the applicant on 12 
November 2015. 
 
During the meeting on 19 November 2015, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions 
to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 25 
November 2016. 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 23 March 
2016. 
The following GCP inspection was requested by the CHMP and their outcome taken into consideration 
as part of the Quality/Safety/Efficacy assessment of the product: 
  GCP inspections at the clinical facility in Turkey (inspection dates: 07/12/2015 to10/12/2015), 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 7/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the analytical laboratory and the sponsor site in India (inspection dates: 11/02/2016 to 
16/02/2016). The outcome of the inspection carried out was issued on 11 April 2016. 
 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 2 May 2016.  
 
During the PRAC meeting on 13 May 2016, the PRAC agreed on a PRAC Assessment Overview and 
Advice to CHMP. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the CHMP meeting on 26 May 2016, the CHMP agreed on a List of Outstanding Issues to be 
addressed in an oral explanation and/or in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 21 
June 2016. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 7 July 2016.  
During the CHMP meeting on 21 July 2016, the CHMP agreed on a second list outstanding issues to 
be addressed by the applicant in writing and/or during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated second List of Outstanding Issues 
on 14 September 2016. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the second List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 28 September 2016.  
During the meeting on 13 October 2016 the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
authorisation to Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
The application for Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil maleate Mylan was submitted by MYLAN S.A.S, via 
the centralised procedure as Generic of a Centrally Authorised Medicinal Product of Regulation (EC) No 
726/2004 and according Article 10(1) generic application of Directive 2001/83/EC. Emtricitabine and 
Tenofovir disoproxil (as maleate) 200 mg/245 mg film-coated tablets are immediate release solid oral 
dosage form and are generic version of the already approved reference product Truvada (MAH Gilead 
Sciences International Limited) film-coated tablet containing 200 mg of emtricitabine and 245 mg of 
tenofovir disoproxil (as fumarate). Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/04/305/001-002. Date of 
authorisation 2005-02-21. 
The quality data showed that both medicinal products are based on same active moieties and are 
composed by the same active substance in case of emtricitabine and different salts in case of tenofovir 
(maleate in case of applied product vs fumarate in case of reference product). Based on the data 
provided, there is no need to generate additional data. A number of quality issues related to the active 
substance have been clarified and the drug product manufacturer’s active substances specifications are 
considered acceptable. 
Non-clinical data consisted of (i) original studies (repeat dose toxicity study, genotoxicity screen and a 
single species general toxicity study in support of the Tenofovir disoproxil dimer, mixed dimer, and mono 
POC dimer impurities) and (ii) overviews on pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology. These data 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 8/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
justified the no need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology 
data. 
The clinical dataset consisted of two parts – clinical overview (bibliographic data on clinical pharmacology, 
efficacy and safety of both emtricitabine and tenofovir, including their fixed combination) and the 
comparative bioequivalence study in fed condition. These data could justify why there is no need to 
generate additional clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, efficacy, and safety data. The positive 
benefit risk assessment can be concluded.   
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is a fixed combination of two active substances (emtricitabine and tenofovir 
disoproxil maleate) presented as film-coated tablets containing 200 mg of emtricitabine and 245 mg of 
tenofovir disoproxil (equivalent to 300 mg of tenofovir disoproxil maleate).  
Other ingredients are:  
Tablet core: cellulose, microcrystalline; hydroxypropyl cellulose, low-substituted; iron oxide red (E172); 
silica, colloidal anhydrous; lactose monohydrate; magnesium stearate. 
Film-coating: lactose monohydrate; hypromellose; titanium dioxide (E171); triacetin; brilliant blue FCF 
Aluminium lake (E133); iron oxide yellow (E172). 
The product is available in either HDPE bottles with white opaque polypropylene screw caps or white 
opaque polypropylene child resistant closure with wad containing aluminium induction sealing liner and 
desiccant, or cold form blisters laminated with embedded desiccant layer on one side and hard tampered 
aluminium foil as described in section 6.5 of the SmPC. 
2.2.2.  Active substance 
Emtricitabine 
General information 
The chemical name of emtricitabine is 
4-amino-5-fluoro-1-[(2R,5S)-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-oxathiolan-5-yl]-2(1H)-pyrimidinone 
corresponding to the molecular formula C8H10FN3O3S. It has a relative molecular mass of 247.24 g/mol 
and the following structure (Figure 1): 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 9/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1.  Structure of emtricitabine 
The structure of the active substance was elucidated by a combination of 1H- and 13C-NMR spectroscopy, 
IR spectroscopy, UV spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, elemental analysis and XRD. 
Emtricitabine appears as a white to off-white crystalline powder, freely soluble in methanol and water and 
soluble in ethanol. Its pKa is 4.90 and the partition coefficient Log P is -0.43. It has 2 chiral centres at 
carbons 2 and 5 of the oxathiolane ring. There are four possible isomers due to these asymmetric carbons 
in the molecule and the isomer 2R,5S is commercially produced. Enantiomeric purity is controlled 
routinely by chiral HPLC and specific optical rotation.  
Various polymorphs of emtricitabine exist (Form I, Form II, Form III and amorphous form). XRD data 
confirms that the manufacturer produces Form I consistently and that it remains stable upon storage. 
Polymorph identification test by XRD is included in the active substance specification. 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Detailed information on the manufacturing of the active substance has been provided in the restricted 
part of the ASMF and it was considered satisfactory.  
Four manufacturing sites are involved in the synthesis of the active substance and two of these 
manufacturing sites only manufacture the intermediate 
(2R,5S)-5-(4-amino-5-fluoro-2-oxo-2H-pyrimidin-1-yl)-[1,3]-oxathiolane-2-carboxylic acid, 
2S-isopropyl-5R-menthyl-1R-cyclohexyl ester (FCE).  
Emtricitabine is synthesized in six main steps using well defined starting materials with acceptable 
specifications. The synthetic route was described in sufficient detail. 
The  synthetic  process  encompasses  the  stereoselective  formation  of  an  intermediate  and  thus  the 
formation of the desired emtricitabine enantiomer. The manufacturing process of emtricitabine at both 
manufacturing sites was validated on three individual batches for accuracy and repeatability.  
The critical process parameters were presented and justified. Adequate in-process controls are applied 
during the synthesis. The specifications and control methods for intermediate products, starting materials 
and reagents have been presented.  
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities are in accordance with the EU guideline on 
chemistry of new active substances. Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to 
their origin and characterised.  
The active substance is packed in polyethylene bags (LDPE) inside HDPE drums which comply with the 
European Pharmacopeia and relevant EU regulations. 
Specification 
Emtricitabine specification includes tests and limits for description (visual), solubility (Eur. Ph.), 
identification (IR, HPLC, PXRD), melting range (Ph. Eur.), specific optical rotation (Ph. Eur.), loss on 
drying (Ph. Eur.), sulfated ash (Ph. Eur.), heavy metals (Ph. Eur.), content of emtricitabine enantiomer 
(chiral HPLC), related substances (HPLC), assay (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), content of triethylamine 
(GC), formaldehyde content (UPLC), bulk density, apparent density and tapped density (in-house) and 
particle size (laser diffraction particle).  
Skip testing for formaldehyde in the active substance specification has been adequately justified. 
Omission for testing microbiological quality in the active substance specification has been justified based 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 10/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on the use of isopropyl alcohol for the crystallisation of emtricitabine, which is not favourable for the 
microbial growth, and results from production scale batches which were tested for microbiological quality. 
The set limits in the active substance specification are sufficiently justified and the acceptance criteria of 
the related substances are in accordance with ICH guidelines. The limits for residual solvents are in 
accordance with the ICH Q3C guideline except for triethylamine for which the acceptance criteria is 
adequately justified toxicologically. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately discussed and non-compendial methods appropriately 
validated in accordance with ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards 
used for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data from six production scale batches of the active substance are provided. The results 
are within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability data on six production scale batches (from both proposed manufacturers) and three pilot scale 
batches (from one of the manufacturers) of active substance stored in the intended commercial package 
for up to 60 months under long term conditions at 25 ºC / 60% RH, for up to 36 months under 
intermediate conditions at 30 ºC / 65% RH or for up to 24 months at alternative conditions 30 ºC / 75% 
RH and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions at 40 ºC / 75% RH, according to the ICH 
guidelines, was provided.  
The following parameters were tested: description, identification (IR, HPLC), melting range, specific 
optical rotation, loss on drying, limit of emtricitabine enantiomer, related substances and assay. The 
analytical methods used were the same as for release and were stability indicating. 
Results on forced degradation studies (stress studies and solid state stability studies) were also provided 
as part of the related substances method validation of. Exposure to acid hydrolysis, basic hydrolysis, 
oxidation, heat degradation and UV as well as white fluorescence light, UV at 365 nm and heat at 105 ºC 
in solid state was measured. 
All tested parameters were within the specifications. The degradation of emtricitabine is significantly 
increased upon exposure to acid, base and heat. The major degradants formed were S-oxide and 
desamino. Emtricitabine solutions were found to be stable under UV exposure. No degradation was 
observed in solid state indicating that emtricitabine is stable upon exposure to white fluorescent light, UV 
light and heat at 105 ºC. 
The stability results indicate that the active substance manufactured by the proposed suppliers is 
sufficiently stable. The stability results justify the proposed retest period of 60 months in the proposed 
packaging and the storage precaution “Store below 30 ºC”. 
Tenofovir disoproxil 
General information 
The chemical name of tenofovir disoproxil (as maleate) is bis({[propan-2-yloxy)carbonyl]oxy}methyl) 
({[2R)-1-(6-amino-9Hpurin-9-yl)propan-2-yl]oxy}methyl)phosphonate(2Z)-but-2-enedioate, 
corresponding to the molecular formula C19H30N5O10P∙C4H4O4. It has a relative molecular mass of 635.51 
g/mol and the following structure (Figure 4): 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 11/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2.  Structure of tenofovir disoproxil maleate 
The structure of the active substance was elucidated by a combination of 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy, 
IR spectroscopy, UV spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, elemental analysis and XRD. 
Tenofovir disoproxil maleate is a white to off-white, non-hygroscopic, crystalline powder, freely soluble in 
DMF and soluble in aqueous solutions (pH 1.2-8.0) and methanol. Its pKa is 3.5 and its partition 
coefficient is 0.67.   
Tenofovir disoproxil maleate exhibits stereoisomerism due to the presence of one chiral centre at C-11 
(the C-2 position of the propyl side-chain). Two isomers are possible due to this asymmetric carbon. The 
R-isomer is commercially produced. Enantiomeric purity is controlled routinely by chiral HPLC and specific 
optical rotation. 
Tenofovir disoproxil maleate exhibits polymorphism and different forms are reported in the literature 
(form I and form II). The PXRD method distinguishes the polymorphic forms and PXRD data confirmed 
that Form I is consistently produced and that it is stable upon storage. Three tenofovir disoproxil maleate 
batches were undergone compaction followed by milling. The milled tenofovir disoproxil maleate batches 
were analysed by PXRD. The XRD pattern comparison demonstrated that compaction followed by milling 
operations does not affect polymorphism.  
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Detailed information on the manufacturing process of the active substance was provided in the restricted 
part of the ASMF and considered satisfactory. 
Tenofovir disoproxil maleate is synthesized in three main steps (Stages I, II and III) using commercially 
available well defined starting materials with acceptable specifications. Two manufacturing sites carry out 
stages I and II. Stage III only takes place at the second site. The synthesis was described in sufficient 
detail. 
The synthetic process encompasses the stereoselective formation of the desired tenofovir disoproxil 
maleate R-enantiomer from a commercially available optically active starting material.  The process has 
been shown able to consistently produce tenofovir disoproxil maleate that meets the required quality 
standards. 
The critical process parameters have been presented and adequate in-process controls are applied during 
the synthesis. The specifications and control methods for intermediate products, starting materials and 
reagents have been presented.  
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 12/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The characterisation of the active substance and its impurities is in accordance with the relevant EU 
guidance. Potential and actual impurities were well discussed with regards to their origin and 
characterised. 
The active substance is packed in double polyethylene bags which are in turn packed in triple laminated 
aluminium packs, heat sealed, and placed in HDPE containers which comply with the Ph. Eur. and relevant 
EC regulations 2015/174. 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for description (visual), solubility (visual), identification 
(IR, HPLC), clarity of solution (visual), water content (KF), sulfated ash (in house), heavy metals (Ph. 
Eur.), S-isomer content (chiral HPLC), related substances (HPLC), assay (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), 
chloromethyl isopropyl carbonate (GC), 9-propenyl adenine (LC-MS), impurities (sum of 
diethyl(hydroxymethyl)phosphonate and tosyl phosphonate) (LC-MS), formaldehyde content (UPLC), 
total genotoxic impurities (LC-MS, UPLC) and particle size (laser diffraction particle). 
Skip testing for 9-propenyl adenine, limit of impurities (sum of diethyl(hydroxymethyl)phosphonate and 
tosyl phosponate), formaldehyde and total genotoxic impurities in the active substance specification has 
been adequately justified as they are consistently below 30% of the TTC as per ICH M7 option 1.  
Omission for testing polymorphism and microbioloical quality in the active substance specification has 
been justified. Regarding polymorphism, it was demonstrated the same polymorphic form was 
consistently produced in the process and was stable upon storage. The absence of microbiological control 
was also considered acceptable as tenofovir disoproxil maleate is recrystallised from isopropyl alcohol 
which does not allow microbial growth, which was confirmed by testing representative production scale 
batches for microbiological quality. 
All the proposed specification limits are considered justified and in line with the relevant ICH guidelines. 
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and non-compendial methods appropriately 
validated in accordance with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference 
standards used for assay and impurities testing has been presented. 
Batch analysis data on three consecutive production scale batches of the active substance were provided. 
The results are within the specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability data from three production scale batches of active substance from the proposed manufacturer 
stored in the intended commercial package for up to 12 months under long term conditions (25 ºC / 60% 
RH) and for up to 6 months under intermediate conditions (30 ºC / 75% RH), according to the ICH 
guidelines were provided. Stability studies under accelerated conditions (40 ºC / 75% RH) were 
conducted.  
The following parameters were tested: description, identification (IR, HPLC), water content (KF), 
S-isomer content (HPLC) and assay (HPLC). The analytical methods used were the same as for release 
and were stability indicating. 
A significant increase in impurities was observed under accelerated conditions and the batches did not 
meet the specifications. Therefore, additional stability studies were conducted under intermediate 
conditions. Under these conditions, a slight increase in the level of the monoester impurity was observed 
but no other degradation was noted. All other measured parameters remained well within their 
specification limits. 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 13/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results from forced degradation studies were also provided. Tenofovir disoproxil maleate was exposed to 
aqueous acid, aqueous base, oxidant, heat and UV. Solid samples were exposed to white fluorescent light 
(according to ICH Q1B), UV at 365 nm and heat at 60 ºC. 
Significant degradation of tenofovir disoproxil maleate was observed in solution under alkaline, acid and 
oxidative conditions and when exposed to heat or UV light. No significant degradation was observed in 
solid state when samples were exposed to heat or white fluorescent light but slight degradation was 
observed on exposure to UV light. 
The stability results indicate that the active substance manufactured by the proposed supplier is 
sufficiently stable. The stability results justify the proposed retest period of 12 months in the proposed 
container and the storage precaution “store below 25 ºC”. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical development 
The finished product is presented as light green, capsule shaped, biconvex film-coated immediate release 
tablets debossed with ‘M’ on one side of the tablet and ‘ETD’ on the other side. The dimensions of the 
tablets are 19.8 mm ± 0.3 mm x 9.00 mm ± 0.3 mm. The composition of the film coated tablets is was 
presented. 
The aim of the pharmaceutical development studies was to develop a generic product of Truvada 200/245 
mg (Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil) film-coated tablets. Composition comparison demonstrates that 
the finished product uses a different salt of the active substance tenofovir disoproxil (maleate rather than 
fumarate) and the reference product has different type of disintegrant and additionally contains 
pre-gelatinized starch. 
All excipients are conventional pharmaceutical ingredients and their quality is compliant with Ph. Eur/NF 
standards. The Opadry green coating material is proprietary material supplied to an agreed specification 
and the individual components used in its manufacturing comply with the Ph. Eur. and EU regulation 
231/2012. There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. The list of excipients is 
included in section 6.1 of the SmPC and in paragraph 2.1.1 of this report. 
The binary mixture of emtricitabine with tenofovir disoproxil maleate was prepared to study the 
compatibility of both active substances and with various excipients. The samples were evaluated for any 
change in appearance and related substances after 4 weeks at 40 ºC / 75% RH. Although there was no 
change in the appearance of the binary mixtures, significant increase in level of related substances was 
observed in binary mixture of emtricitabine with tenofovir disoproxil maleate and in binary mixtures of 
tenofovir disoproxil maleate with excipients. However, accelerated stability data of the prototype 
formulation was found to be satisfactory and it was concluded that emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil 
maleate are compatible with all excipients to use in the product development. 
Both active substances were analysed for particle size distribution, bulk density, tapped density, 
compressibility index and Hausner ratio. Results indicated that emtricitabine has “very, very poor” flow 
properties and tenofovir disoproxil maleate has “very poor to very, very poor” flow properties. Solubility 
studies were also conducted and the results indicated that emtricitabine is freely soluble within the pH 
range studied (pH 1.2-8.0 in different buffers) and tenofovir disoproxil maleate has pH independent 
solubility. The effect of different particle size on dissolution for emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil 
maleate was evaluated and data confirmed that there is no significant effect of particle size on dissolution 
profile in the particle size range studied. 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 14/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The prototype product development was carried out by dry granulation technique since, as stated in 
scientific literature, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil maleate degrade in high moisture/ temperature 
conditions. The following parameters were considered for the optimisation of the manufacturing process 
for emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil: roller compaction process, milling process, number of 
compaction cycles, granules to fines ratio, blending time at various stages and tablet hardness. 
Monolayer tablets were manufactured by taking trials with different lubricants (magnesium stearate and 
sodium stearyl fumarate), and based on total impurity results and API-excipient compatibility study 
(under accelerated stability conditions), it was decided to evaluate the bilayer tablet strategy. The same 
lubricants were tested with the bilayer tablet strategy and the formulation with magnesium stearate was 
selected for further development as the level of total impurities was found to be slightly high (under 
accelerated stability conditions) when manufactured with sodium stearyl fumarate.  
Comparative dissolution profiles of the finished product and the reference product were generated in 
different dissolution media (0.1N HCl, pH 4.5 acetate buffer and pH 6.8 phospate buffer). More than 85% 
of the emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil maleate are released within 15 minutes in pH 1.2, pH 4.5 and 
pH 6.8 except for tenofovir disoproxil maleate at pH 1.2. At this pH the data showed that the release of 
tenofovir from reference product was found to be faster as compared to the finished product. However, 
after 30 min, more than 85% of the drug is released and hence, both products can be considered as rapid 
dissolving. The change in salt of tenofovir disoproxil, qualitative composition and manufacturing process 
may have contributed in this difference, however, no effect on in-vivo performance was observed as the 
finished product was found to be bioequivalent with the reference product. Comparative impurity profiles 
were also studied and both the finished product and the reference product exhibited similar impurity 
profile. 
It has been shown that there is no difference in the unit composition of the batches used in the 
bioequivalence study and the proposed for commercial supply. 
 In section 4.2 of the SmPC, it is stated that in exceptional circumstances for patients with difficulty 
swallowing, the finished product can be administered following disintegration of the tablet in 100 ml of 
water, orange juice, or grape juice. Data was provided showing comparative disintegration times of 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir Disoproxil and Truvada in water and demonstrating that disintegration occurs for 
both products within 8 minutes. Since both emtricitabine (BCS I) and tenofovir disoproxil maleate (BCS 
III) are highly soluble in water, it was considered that a clinical study to investigate relative 
bioequivalence was not necessary as membrane permeability rather than dissolution is likely to be the 
rate limiting step for absorption.  
Paddle apparatus was selected for dissolution testing. Dissolution profile data in different media on the 
reference product was generated. Both, emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil maleate showed complete 
release within 10 minutes. Based on the pharmacokinetic of the active ingredients and the fact that the 
target product is an immediate release tablet, dissolution in the stomach and absorption in the upper 
small intestine is expected, hence, the use of a dissolution medium with low pH was selected (0.1N HCl). 
Paddle speed of 50 rpm and 900mL volume of dissolution medium were selected as it is generally 
recommended for tablet dosage form. Based on the solubility of both active substances and their unit 
doses, it was concluded that sink condition will be maintained in the selected dissolution method. The 
discriminatory power of the dissolution method has been demonstrated. 
The primary packaging is either HDPE bottles with white opaque polypropylene screw caps or white 
opaque polypropylene child resistant closure with wad containing aluminium induction sealing liner and 
desiccant, or cold form blisters laminated with embedded desiccant layer on one side and hard tampered 
aluminium foil on the other. The materials comply with Ph. Eur. and EC requirements. The choice of the 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 15/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
container closure systems have been validated by stability data and are adequate for the intended use of 
the product. 
The bulk shipment packs, which are proposed for storage and transportation of the finished product to the 
European repackaging site, comprises  low density polyethylene (LDPE) bags that are placed in outer 
triple laminated bags along with desiccant bags in between the LDPE bag and the outer bag and sealed. 
These bags are placed in suitable tertiary packs. The materials comply with Ph. Eur. and EC requirements. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
The manufacturing process consists of five main steps: (1) preparation of tenofovir disoproxil maleate 
layer  (dispensing,  sifting,  precompaction  blending,  compaction,  mixing  and  sifting,  sifting  of 
extragranular  materials,  final  blending);  (2)  preparation  of  emtricitabine  layer  (dispensing,  sifting, 
precompation blending, compaction, milling and sifting, sifting of extragranular materials, final blending); 
(3) tablet compression; (4) film-coating; and (5) packaging. The manufacturing process is considered 
adequate  for  immediate  release  film-coated  tablets,  containing  poorly  compatible  components.  One 
manufacturing  site  is  responsible  for  the  manufacture  of  the  bulk  finished  product.  Flow  diagrams 
depicting the manufacturing process steps with associated in-process controls (IPCs) were provided. 
The  critical  steps  include  (1)  blending,  (2)  compression,  (3)  film-coating  and  (4)  packaging.    The 
proposed in-process controls are adequate for this pharmaceutical form. 
Major steps of the manufacturing process have been validated by a number of studies carried out at the 
lowest proposed production scale batches (150,000 units). The Applicant commits to perform process 
validation studies on the first three production scale batches (700,000 units) of the finished product. It 
has been demonstrated that the manufacturing process is capable of producing the finished product of 
intended quality in a reproducible manner.  
Product specification  
The  finished  product  release  specifications  include  appropriate  tests  for  this  kind  of  dosage  form  and 
include description (visual), identification (HPLC, TLC, maleic acid (HPLC)), color identification (in house, 
chemical method), dissolution (HPLC), uniformity of dosage units (Ph. Eur.), related substances (HPLC), 
limit  of  monoester  impurity  of  tenofovir  disoproxil  maleate  (HPLC),  assay  (HPLC),  water  (KF)  and 
microbiological tests (Ph. Eur.). 
The limits for related substances are based on the limits in the active substances, nature of the impurity, 
identification and qualification threshold limits recommended in ICH guidelines and toxicological data. 
Skip  testing  for  color  identification  and  microbiological  tests  has  been  justified  and  is  considered 
acceptable based on ICH guidelines.  
The analytical methods used have been adequately described and appropriately validated in accordance 
with the ICH guidelines. Satisfactory information regarding the reference standards used for assay and 
impurities testing has been presented. 
Certificates of analysis for four production scale batches (150,000 units) of finished product were 
provided confirming the consistency of the manufacturing process and its ability to manufacture to the 
intended product specification.  
The finished product is released on the market based on the above release specifications, through 
traditional final product release testing. 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 16/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability of the product 
Stability data of four production scale batches (150,000 units) of finished product in the container closure 
system proposed for marketing and stored under long term conditions for up to 18 months at 25 ºC / 60% 
RH (cold blisters or HDPE bottles), for up to 12 months under intermediate conditions at 30 ºC / 65% RH 
(cold blisters) and for up to 6 months under accelerated conditions at 40 ºC / 75% RH (HDPE bottles) 
according to the ICH guidelines were provided. Additionally, stability data of four production scale batches 
(150,000 units) of finished product in simulated bulk shipment pack stored under long term conditions for 
up to 12 months at 25 ºC / 60% RH, and for up to 12 months under intermediate conditions at 30 ºC / 
65% RH according to the ICH guidelines were also provided. The batches of medicinal product are 
identical to those proposed for marketing and were packed in both primary packaging proposed for 
marketing and representative bulk shipment packaging.  
Samples were tested for description, assay, water content, dissolution, microbiological limits, limit of 
monoester impurity of tenofovir disoproxil maleate and related substances. The analytical procedures 
used are stability indicating.  
The data presented indicates that the product complies with the proposed finished product shelf life 
specifications during accelerated and long term stability studies in HDPE bottle pack. However, the 
product did not comply with the proposed shelf life specifications during accelerated stability studies 
performed on cold form blister pack and simulated bulk pack and an extensive discussion on the possible 
causes has been presented. It was justified that the non-compliance may be due to the susceptibility to 
hydrolysis of both active substances in aqueous solutions and to degrade in high moisture/temperature 
conditions with a possibility of incompatibility between the two active substances and associated 
degradation products and the packaging used. Therefore stability studies were performed under the 
intermediate conditions and the results comply with the proposed finished product shelf life specification.  
In-use stability data for two production scale batches (150,000 units) of the finished product up to 90 
days in HDPE bottle pack at  25 ºC / 60% RH were provided. The design of in-use stability study and the 
tests performed at each time point was provided covering the duration of the shelf life. The tests 
performed at each time station were description, assay, related substances, dissolution, water content 
and microbiological test. The data demonstrated no tendency for a change of tested parameters.  
Results on forced degradation studies were also provided as part of the related substances and assay 
method validation. Exposure to acid hydrolysis, basic hydrolysis, oxidation, heat degradation and UV as 
well as to heat, humidity, white light and UV in solid state was measured. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf-life of 24 months and the storage conditions (“Do not 
store above 25 ºC”) as stated in the SmPC (section 6.3) are acceptable for both proposed packaging. The 
in-use shelf life of 90 days after first opening the container is also considered acceptable.  
The proposed holding time of 12 months and the storage conditions (“Do not store above 25 ºC”) for 
tablets in bulk shipment pack are also considered acceptable.  
Adventitious agents 
It is confirmed that the lactose is produced from milk from healthy animals in the same condition as those 
used to collect milk for human consumption and that the lactose has been prepared without the use of 
ruminant material other than calf rennet according to the Note for Guidance on Minimising the Risk of 
Transmitting Animal Spongiform Encephalopathy Agents Via Human and veterinary medicinal products. 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 17/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
The medicinal product is a fixed combination containing two active substances, emtricitabine and 
tenofovir disoproxil maleate. Information on development, manufacture and control of the active 
substance and finished product has been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried 
out indicate consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn 
lead to the conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has been presented 
to give reassurance on viral/TSE safety.  
2.2.6.  Recommendations for future quality development 
Not applicable. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The non-clinical part of the dossier consisted of literature overview and some own studies. The 
non-clinical safety profile of Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate has been studied in mice, rats, guinea pigs, 
rabbits, dogs, and monkeys (Viread SBOA 2001, Truvada SBOA 2012). Less non-clinical safety data is 
available for the maleate salt form. Following oral administration, Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate is rapidly 
absorbed and converted to Tenofovir. While the pharmacological profile of Tenofovir disoproxil is 
expected to be equivalent after administration of any of the salts, a brief scientific review and safety 
assessment was conducted to compare the potential toxicity profiles of the two salt forms. 
The Applicant evaluated and compared the toxicity profiles Tenofovir disoproxil maleate and Tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate in a 90-day oral repeated dose toxicity study in rats. Results from this study 
demonstrate the toxicity profile to be comparable for Tenofovir disoproxil maleate and fumarate, thus the 
maleate salt is considered to be equivalent and therefore not expected to alter the patient response. 
These data taken together, as summarized below, demonstrates that maleate exposure (55 mg/tablet; 
0.9 mg/kg/day for a 60 kg individual) at the maximum recommended dose of 200/300 mg/day (Truvada 
SmPC 2015) in Applicant’s Emtricitabine/Tenofovir Disoproxil Maleate film coated tablets is safe for use 
and is not expected to alter the toxicological profile. 
Data for bibliographical overview has been obtained from literature searches of the internet as well as the 
US National Library of Medicine database (MEDLINE/TOXLINE) back to 1965. Emtricitabine (CAS# 
143491-57-0), Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (CAS# 202138-50-9), Tenofovir disoproxil maleate, 
Tenofovir (CAS# 147127-20-6), and common synonyms for these were used in the conduction of these 
searches. These searches were completed June 23, 2015. 
The non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity 
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable. 
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 18/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.2.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the Applicant as the introduction 
of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan manufactured by MYLAN S.A.S., France is considered unlikely 
to result in any significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all emtricitabine and tenofovir 
disoproxil maleate containing products and the exposure of the environment to the active substances. 
Emtricitabine and Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan 200/300 mg film-coated tablet contain identical amount of 
Emtricitabine and Tenofovir disoproxil drug substances and has been formulated with a range of 
commonly used excipients to be pharmaceutically equivalent to Truvada 200 mg/245 mg 
(Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil) film-coated tablets and as such is not considered to pose any greater 
environmental risk to that from the reference product. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar and not 
increased. 
2.3.3.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Non clinical data for this application consisted of data from literature. There are some differences in the 
active substance entity in Reference product Truvada. Truvada contains Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, 
while Tenofovir disoproxil maleate is contained in the generic product. Based on literature data, the 
applicant stated that Tenofovir disoproxil maleate will be rapidly absorbed and converted to Tenofovir as 
is established for Tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. Of note, no non-clinical primary pharmacology or safety 
studies have been conducted with the Tenofovir disoproxil maleate or/and the Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil maleate combination. However, the applicant provided GLP compliant 90-day oral repeated 
dose toxicity study in rats where toxicity profile Tenofovir disoproxil maleate and Tenofovir disoproxil 
fumarate was evaluated. The results showed that both the maleate and fumarate salt formulations of 
Tenofovir disoproxil were well tolerated at doses up to and including 300 mg/kg/day findings limited to 
slight salivation at 300 mg/kg/day. Furthermore, the amount of maleate at the NOAEL delivered daily for 
90 days is approximately 53-fold the estimated maximum exposure (on a body surface area basis) to the 
maximum anticipated maleate exposure in Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil maleate film coated tablets. 
The CHMP considered this as acceptable. 
Concerning ERA the Applicant stated that Emtricitabine and Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan 200/300 mg 
film-coated tablet correspond to the Reference product Truvada 200 mg/245 mg film-coated tablets as 
such impact to the environment is expected to be similar and not increased. Thus, the ERA is expected to 
be similar and not increased. 
2.3.4.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature with regard to non-clinical data of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan 
and justifications along with a 90-day oral repeated dose toxicity study to show that the different salt of 
the active substance does not differ significantly in properties with regards to safety and efficacy of the 
reference product was provided, which was accepted by the CHMP. This is in accordance with the relevant 
guideline and therefore additional non clinical studies were not considered necessary. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This is an application for film-coated tablets containing Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil. To support the 
marketing authorisation application the applicant conducted one bioequivalence study with an 
open-label, balanced, randomized, single dose, two treatment, two sequence, two period crossover 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 19/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bioequivalence study design under fed conditions. This study was the pivotal study for the assessment. 
For the clinical assessment the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) in its current version, is of particular relevance.  
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
GCP inspections at the clinical facility in Turkey (inspection dates: 07/12/2015 to10/12/2015), the 
analytical laboratory and the sponsor site in India (inspection dates: 11/02/2016 to 16/02/2016) were 
conducted following the request of the CHMP. The outcome of the inspection carried out was issued on 11 
April 2016 
Exemption  
Not applicable as the application applies to only one strength. 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study, TEEM-14-021. 
Table 1.  Tabular overview of clinical studies  
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Study TEEM-14-021 Title: An open-label, balanced, randomised, two treatment, two sequence, two 
period, cross-over single dose, comparative oral bioequivalence study of emtricitabine disoproxil maleate 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 20/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
film-coated tablets 200/300 mg Mylan and Truvada in healthy adults under fed conditions.  
Methods 
Study design  
This was an open-label, balanced, randomized, single dose, two treatment, two sequence, two period 
crossover bioequivalence study under fed conditions to assess the single dose bioequivalence of 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Maleate film coated Tablets 200/300 mg with that of Truvada 
(Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil) film coated tablets 200/245 mg in 36 healthy adult male human 
subjects, under fed conditions. Also it was anticipated to monitor clinical status, adverse events and 
laboratory investigations and assess relative safety and tolerance of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
Maleate film coated Tablets 200/300 mg under fed conditions 
Study consisted of two periods (Period I and Period II). After 10 days of washout period, in Period II, the 
subjects have been administered by the other drug that they have not been administered in the Period I. 
Subjects were housed in the clinical facility from at least 12 hours prior to investigational product 
administration until after the 72 hours post dose in both the study periods. Blood samples were collected 
before dosing and up to 72 hours after each dosing period. 
The Applicant explained that the elimination half-life range was ~12 to 18 hours for tenofovir and ~10 
hours for emtricitabine in literature. The last sampling time was evaluated as 5 times of t½ which was 
found as ~60 to 90 hours for tenofovir and ~50 hours for emtricitabine. The period of 72 hours sampling 
in this study was judged to be sufficient by the Applicant to characterise the concentration-time curve. 
The Applicant noted that the wash-out period was evaluated as 10 times of t½ which was found as ~120 
to 180 hours (5-7.5 days) for tenofovir and ~100 hours (~4 days) for emtricitabine. Therefore, the two 
treatment periods were separated by a wash-out period of 10 days between two periods to minimize the 
carry-over effect. 
The treatments (one tablet containing 200 mg Emtricitabine and 300 mg Tenofovir disoproxil Maleate for 
test product and 200 mg Emtricitabine and 245 mg Tenofovir disoproxil (as Fumarate) for reference 
product) were given to each subject by oral route with 240 mL of water, in the morning to overnight 
fasted subjects for at least 10 hours prior to start of high fat high calorie non-vegetarian breakfast 
approximately 800-1000 kilo calories till at least 4 hours post dose. Subjects were instructed to complete 
breakfast within 30 minutes. 
A total of 23 (6 ml) blood samples for PK analysis were collected during each period. Blood samples were 
drawn pre-dose (no earlier than 2 hours prior to dosing) and at 0.167,0.333,0.500,0.667,0.833, 1.000, 
1.250, 1.500, 1.750,2.000,2.500,3.000, 4.000, 5.000, 6.000, 8.000, 10.000, 12.000, 24.000, 36.000, 
48.000 and 72.000 hours post dose in K2 EDTA tubes. Blood samples were cooled in an ice bath. Blood 
samples were centrifugated under refrigeration at 3S00rpm at 4°C for 10 min within 30 minutes after the 
last blood sample collection of respective time point. Plasma was extracted, divided in duplicates (primary 
(l.5 mL) and secondary (rest of the volume) aliquots) and stored in in a freezer within 60 minutes of blood 
sample collection at -70°C ± 20°C at the clinical facility until shipment to analytical facility (Mylan 
Laboratories Limited, India). The samples have been stored at -70°C ± 15°C at the analytical facility 
(Mylan Laboratories Limited, India) until analysed. 
Blinding: This was an open-labelled clinical study. But, bioanalytical analyst was blinded towards the 
treatments (Test or Reference) administered to subjects. 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 21/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety was evaluated through assessment of physical examination, vital signs and laboratory evaluation, 
physical examination and monitoring for adverse events throughout the course of the study. 
There was no change or deviation in the conduct of the study. The following protocol deviations were 
reported: (1) One subject (subject 09) dropped-out in Period 1; (2) PROC GLM procedure was used 
instead of PROC MIXED and Pharmacokinetic parameters were computed in SAS instead of WinNonlin. 
According the Applicant, this may not affect the outcome of the study. The dosing dates were 10 days 
apart - on 09.12.2014 for Period I and 19.12.2014 for Period II. 
Thus, the study design is acceptable however a number of clarifications were requested during the 
evaluation. 
Test and reference products  
The Marketing Authorisation Holder for Truvada 200 mg/245 mg film-coated tablets is Gilead Sciences 
International Limited, United Kingdom.  
The date of authorisation in the EU for Truvada 200 mg/245 mg film-coated tablets is 21st February 2005. 
The certificates of analysis of the biobatches are provided in Table 6. 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 22/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bioequivalence trial information 
Table 2.  Test and reference product information 
Product   Characteristics  Reference product 
Test Product 
Name 
Truvada (Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil) film coated tablets 
Emtricitabine and Tenofovir 
disoproxil maleate 
film-coated Tablets 
Strength 
200 mg /245 mg 
200 mg /300 mg 
Dosage form 
Film-coated tablets 
Film-coated tablets 
Manufacturer 
Gilead 
Sciences
International Limited, 
United Kingdom 
Mylan Laboratories Limited, India. 
Batch number / 
Lot Number 
12TRS141D 
Batch size (Biobatch) 
- 
8023739* 
150, 000 
Measured content(s) 
(% of label claim) 
Emtricitabine: 100.8 % 
Tenofovir: 100.3 % 
Emtricitabine: 100.7 % 
Tenofovir: 100.8 % 
Proposed additional 
commercial batch size 
- 
700,000 tablets 
Expiry date (Retest date)  November 2016 
April 2016 
Location of Certificate 
of Analysis 
5312-compar-ba-be- 
stud-rep, Appendix-16.1.6 
5312-compar-ba-be-stud-
rep, Appendix-16.1.6 
Member State where the 
reference product is 
purchased from: 
UK 
- 
This product was 
used in the following 
trials: 
Study no.: TEEM-14-021 
Study no.: TEEM-14-021 
* Emtricitabine and Tenofovir disoproxil maleate 200 mg/300 mg film-coated tablets from the Batch No. 2006426 were re-packed into 
Batch No. 8023739 and used in bioequivalence study. 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan 200/245mg manufactured by MYLAN S.A.S - SAINT PRIEST 
(batch No. 8023739*; exp. date April 2016) has been compared to Truvada 200/245 mg manufactured 
by Gilead Sciences International Limited, (Batch No: 12TRS141D, exp. date November 2016). 
Population studied 
A total of 46 subjects were screened and enrolled to this study; of them, 36 were randomised to the study. 
Study included healthy, adult, Caucasian, non-smoking, human male subjects, between 19 and 55 years 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 23/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of age with a 161.5 – 184.7 cm of height. Study was open for both male and female volunteers but only 
males were available for the study. 
Out of 36 subjects, 35 subjects completed all periods of the study and were considered for 
pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis. Subject 09 dropped out in Period I after dosing. 
The population is according to the guideline. Although both genders were planned to be included into the 
study, the males were included. This is acceptable as for BE exercise the homogeneity of studied 
population is even higher.  The inclusion and exclusion criteria were considered acceptable. 
Analytical methods 
The bioanalytical method documented in a pre-study validation report VR-126-00. 
The plasma samples of subjects were analysed using LC/MS/MS method over a concentration range of 
25.196 to 3999.407 ng/ml for emtricitabine and 5.002 to 600.185 ng/ml for tenofovir. The analytical 
method was developed and validated over a concentration range of 25.202 to 4000.254 ng/ml for 
emtricitabine and 5.012 to 601.389 ng/ml for tenofovir and later it was partially validated over a 
concentration range of 25.224 to 4003.776 ng/ml for emtricitabine and 4.961 to 595.274 ng/ml for 
Tenofovir as a part of anticoagulant effect and whole blood stability at Bio analytical laboratory of CRC, 
Mylan Laboratories Ltd. 
Table 3.  Summary of the validation results (Analyte: emtricitabine) 
Analytical Validation 
Report Location(s) 
VR-126-00 
Mod-5314, Bioanalytical Report 
This analytical method was used in the 
following studies: 
TEEM-14-021 
Short description of the method 
LC/MS/MS; Solid Phase extraction technique 
Biological matrix 
K3  EDTA Plasma 
Analyte 
Location of product certificate 
Internal standard (IS) 
Location of product 
certificate 
Calibration concentrations (Units) 
Emtricitabin
e, 
VR-126-00; 
Mod-5314, Bioanalytical Report 
2C. 
Emtricitabine-15ND
2, VR-126-00; 
Mod-5314, Bioanalytical Report 
2C. 
25.202,    50.403,    100.806,    300.019,    800.051,   
1600.101, 
2400.152, 3200.203 and 4000.254 ng/mL 
Lower limit of quantification (Units) 
25.202 ng/mL, 98.61%, 0.86% 
QC concentrations (Units) 
LLOQQC-  25.242 ng/mL, Low- 75.725 ng/mL, 
M1QC- 600.992 ng/mL, M2QC- 1502.481 ng/mL, 
High- 3004.961  ng/mL 
Between-run accuracy 
96.24% to 98.54% 
Between-run precision 
3.18% to 4.94% 
Within-run accuracy (P& A-1) 
96.02% to 99.87% 
Within-run precision (P& A-1) 
2.15% to 2.85% 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 24/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Within-run accuracy (P& A-2) 
93.36% to 100.06% 
Within-run precision (P& A-2) 
1.90% to 8.88% 
Within-run accuracy (P& A-3) 
96.07% to 98.80% 
Within-run precision (P& A-3) 
1.01% to 3.11% 
Within-run accuracy (P& A-4) 
95.94% to 101.79% 
Within-run precision (P& A-4) 
2.07% to 6.00% 
Matrix Factor (MF) (all QC) 
IS normalized MF (all QC) 
C.V.% of IS normalized MF (all QC) 
% of QCs with >85% and <115% n.v. 
LQC 
1.021 
1.006 
2.10 
NA 
% matrix lots with mean <80% or>120% n.v  NA 
HQC 
1.010 
0.995 
1.70 
NA 
NA 
Long term stability of the stock solution 
and working solutions (Observed change 
%) 
Confirmed up to 50 days in Diluent 1(stock solution) & 12 
days in Diluent 2 (working solution) for analyte at 2-8°C 
Analyte: 
LQC: -0.88% (Diluent-1),  -2.95% (Diluent-2) 
HQC: -1.23% (Diluent-1),  0.45% (Diluent-2) 
Confirmed up to 46 days in Diluent 1(stock solution) & 12 
days in Diluent 3 (working solution) for ISTD at 2-8°C 
ISTD: -1.06% (Diluent-1),  -1.77% (Diluent-3) 
Short term stability in biological matrix at 
room temperature or at sample processing 
temperature. (Observed change %) 
Long term stability in biological 
matrix (Observed change %) 
Location 
Confirmed up to 21 hrs 13 
min LQC -2.34% & HQC 
-4.17% 
Confirmed up to 118 days at 
-70±15°C LQC: -0.64% & HQC 
-1.23% 
Confirmed up to 118 days at -20±5°C 
LQC: -1.66% & HQC -1.09% 
Mod-5314, Bioanalytical Report, Attachment-5 
(VR-126-00 
– Addendum-01-00) 
Autosampler storage stability (Observed 
change %) 
Confirmed up to 106 hrs 10 min at 
10°C LQC -11.40% & HQC 6.88% 
Post-preparative 
stability (Observed 
change %) 
Freeze and thaw 
stability (Observed 
change %) 
Refrigerator Stability in Matrix Confirmed up to 20 hrs 
01 min at 2-8°C 
LQC -2.68% & HQC -1.91% 
Dry Extract Stability Confirmed up to 20 hrs 32 min at 
2-8°C LQC 0.05% & HQC 0.73% 
-20±5 °C, 6 cycles, 
LQC 1.30% & HQC -2.42% 
-70±15 °C, 6 cycles, 
LQC -0.40% & HQC 2.37% 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 25/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dilution integrity 
Partial validation 
Location(s) 
Cross validation(s) 
Location(s) 
Concentration diluted 1/2-fold 
Accuracy - 98.00%, Precision 
1.82% Concentration diluted 
1/4-fold Accuracy - 100.02%, 
Precision 3.33% 
Supplement-05-00 - Partially validated for 
Anticoagulant Effect & Whole blood stability. 
Mod-5, App-16.5, Bioanalytical Report, Attachment-6 
Not applicable 
Table 4.  Summary of the validation results (Analyte: tenofovir)  
Analytical Validation Report 
Location(s) 
VR-126-00 
Mod-5314, Bioanalytical Report, Attachment-5 
This analytical method was used in the 
following 
studies: 
TEEM-14-021 
Short description of the method 
LC/MS/MS; Solid Phase extraction technique 
Biological matrix 
K3  EDTA Plasma 
Analyte 
Location of product certificate 
Tenofovir, VR-126-00; 
Mod-5314, Bioanalytical Report, Attachment-5, 
Appendix-2C. 
Internal standard (IS)  
Location of product 
certificate 
Tenofovir-D6, VR-126-00; 
Mod-5314, Bioanalytical Report, Attachment-5, 
Appendix-2C. 
Calibration concentrations (Units) 
5.012,  10.023,  20.046,  50.116,  120.278,  240.556, 
400.926, 501.157 and 601.389 ng/mL 
Lower limit of quantification (Units) 
5.012 ng/mL, 98.32%, 1.26% 
QC concentrations (Units) 
LLOQQC-  5.025 ng/mL, Low- 15.074  ng/mL, 
M1QC- 100.492 ng/mL, M2QC- 221.083 ng/mL, 
High- 462.264 ng/mL 
Between-run accuracy 
Between-run precision 
88.70% to 
102.58% 
3.45% to 5.62% 
Within-run accuracy (P& A-1) 
91.22% to 103.42% 
Within-run precision (P& A-1) 
1.77% to 2.85% 
Within-run accuracy (P& A-2) 
88.36% to 101.30% 
Within-run precision (P& A-2) 
1.74% to 4.78% 
Within-run accuracy (P& A-3) 
91.36% to 102.83% 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 26/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Within-run precision (P& A-3) 
1.66% to 4.85% 
Within-run accuracy (P& A-4) 
83.86% to 102.76% 
Within-run precision (P& A-4) 
4.73% to 7.54% 
Matrix Factor (MF) (all 
QC) IS normalized MF (all 
QC) 
C.V.% of IS normalized MF (all QC) 
% of QCs with >85% and <115% n.v. 
% matrix lots with mean <80% or>120% n.v 
LQC 
1.00
9 
0.995 
2.58 
NA 
NA 
HQC 
1.00
1 
0.987 
2.62 
NA 
NA 
Long term stability of the stock solution 
and working solutions (Observed change 
%) 
Confirmed up to 48 days in Diluent 2 (stock solution) & 12 
days in Diluent 2 (working solution) for analyte at 2-8°C 
Analyte: 
LQC: -0.45% (Diluent-2),  -3.16% (Diluent-2) 
HQC: 1.50% (Diluent-2), -0.23% (Diluent-2) 
Confirmed up to 50 days in Diluent 2 (stock solution) & 12 
days in Diluent 3 (working solution) for ISTD at 2-8°C 
ISTD: 0.49% (Diluent-2),  -1.75% (Diluent-3) 
Short term stability in biological matrix at room 
temperature or at sample processing 
temperature. (Observed change %) 
Long term stability in biological 
matrix (Observed change %) 
Location 
Confirmed up to 21 hrs 13 
min LQC -1.05% & HQC 
0.15% 
Confirmed up to 118 days at 
-70±15°C LQC: -0.02% & HQC 
-2.69% 
Confirmed up to 118 days at 
-20±5°C LQC: -2.63% & HQC 
-1.88% 
Mod-5314, Bioanalytical Report, Attachment-5 
(VR-126-00 – Addendum-01-00) 
Autosampler storage stability (Observed 
change, %) 
Confirmed up to 106 hrs 10 min at 
10°C LQC 0.15% & HQC -2.20% 
Post-preparative 
stability (Observed 
change %) 
Freeze and thaw 
stability (Observed 
change %) 
Dilution integrity 
Refrigerator Stability in Matrix Confirmed up to 20 hrs 01 
min at 2-8°C 
LQC -0.77% & HQC -1.90% 
Dry Extract Stability Confirmed up to 20 hrs 32 min at 
2-8°C LQC 1.08% & HQC 0.47% 
-20±5 °C, 6 cycles, 
LQC -2.79% & HQC -7.02% 
-70±15 °C, 6 cycles, 
LQC -3.30% & HQC -3.41% 
Concentration diluted 1/2-fold Accuracy - 99.99%, 
Precision 1.18% Concentration diluted 1/4-fold Accuracy 
- 90.36%, Precision 3.30% 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 27/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Partial validation 
Location(s) 
Cross validation(s) 
Location(s) 
Supplement-05-00 - Partially validated for Anticoagulant 
Effect & Whole blood stability. 
Mod-5, App-16.5, Bioanalytical Report, Attachment-6 
Not applicable 
Table 5.  Calibration curve standard concentration and quality control sample data 
Parameter 
Results 
Table No. 
Emtricitabine 
Total  Number  of Analytical  runs 
Twenty  One  (21)  acceptable  analytical  runs 
Correlation  Coefficient  (r) 
>  0.9934 
Accuracy(%  Nom) 
Precision  (% CV) 
Calibration  Curve 
91 .45% to  107.44% 
2.70%  to  4.99% 
Quality  control 
97.37%  to  105.24% 
3.93%  to  6.29% 
Accuracy(%  Nom) 
Precision  (% CV) 
DQC (Yz dilution) 
Nil 
Nil 
Accuracy(%  Nom) 
Precision  (% CV) 
There were  no  rejected  analytical  runs. 
3A 
4A 
SA 
Nil 
Parameter 
Results 
Table  No. 
Total  Number  of Analytical  runs 
Twenty  One  (21) acceptable  analytical  runs 
Tenofovir 
Correlation  Coefficient  (r) 
> 0.9958 
Calibration  Curve 
94.22%  to  103.74% 
2.50%  to  5.76% 
Accuracy(%  Nom) 
Precision  (% CV) 
Quality  control 
93.95%  to  103.51% 
4.50%  to  7.32% 
Accuracy(%  Nom) 
Precision  (% CV) 
DQC  (Yz  dilution) 
Nil 
Nil 
Accuracy(%  Nom) 
Precision  (% CV) 
There  were  no  rejected  analytical  runs 
3B 
4B 
5B 
Nil 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 28/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6.  Sample analysis and repeats 
Total  No.  of  samples  from  repeated  analytical  runs 
Nil 
No.  of discrete  samples  repeated (%) 
30  (1.86%) 
Code  A 
Discrete Repeats identified for Emtricitabine  under  bad  chromatography   were repeated  as 
the  analyte  peak  was  integrated  with  adjacent  peak  (Mainly  samples  were BLQ  or between 
LOQ &  LQC  concentration  level), after   reanalysis   similar  peak shape  for  some  of  samples 
at 
lower  concentration  shown.  Hence  these  samples  were  reintegrated  for  proper 
quantification and data were reported.  The reasons and acceptance of initial/repeated values 
can  be  found  in  Table 2A  (Page No.:  29-30). 
Note:  The reasons  for  repeats  and  their  results were  reported  in Table  2A  respectively. 
Table 7.  Long term stability details 
Long stability details 
Long stability required 
Long stability proved 
70 days 
118 days (Addendum 01-00) 
Table 8.  Incurred sample reanalysis 
Incurred sample reanalysis: 10% of the first 1000 samples plus 5% of the rest of the samples of the total 
samples analysed in the study. 
Analytes 
Total  Number  of  incurred  samples  analyzed 
Total  Number  of  samples considered  for  Incurred 
samples  Reanalysis  Calculation 
Total  Number  of  samples  met  acceptance  criteria 
Em tricitabine 
136 
136 
132 
Tenofovir 
136 
136 
136 
Total  %of  samples  within  the  acceptance  range 
97.06% 
100.00%. 
The Applicant provided the bioanalytical report of the bioequivalence study including representative 
number of chromatograms and other raw data. Main characteristics of the method used (selectivity, lower 
limit of quantitation, calibration curve performance, accuracy, precision, stability) were validated before 
study, validation criteria are met, validation reports included. 
Pharmacokinetic variables 
Single-dose pharmacokinetic parameters for Tenofovir and Emtricitabine were calculated using 
non-compartmental techniques. The maximum concentration (Cmax,) and the time at which it occurred 
relative to the administered dose (Tmax) was determined from the observed plasma concentration-time 
profile over the sampling time interval. The elimination rate constant (Kel) was determined by linear 
regression of the terminal linear phase of the log plasma concentration-time profile. Area under the 
plasma concentration-time curve (AUCt) was the sum of the linear trapezoidal estimation of the areas 
from the time of dosing to the time of the last quantifiable concentration. The elimination half-life (t1/2) 
was calculated as t1/2 = 0.693/Kel.  
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 29/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary parameters (AUC0-t, Cmax), and secondary parameters (AUC0-∞, Tmax, AUCratio, Kel and t1/2) were 
calculated using WinNonlin® professional software (Version: 5.3 or higher; Pharsight Corporation, USA). 
Standards for bioequivalence: The 90% confidence intervals of the relative mean (Geometric mean) 
AUC0-t and Cmax of the test to reference formulation for Ln-transformed data should be within 80% to 
125% for Tenofovir and Emtricitabine to establish bioequivalence. 
The PK variables are adequate. Standard methods were used. 
Statistical methods 
Pre-specification of the analysis: Unless otherwise stated, analyses were performed using SAS software, 
and all hypothesis tests were conducted with alpha of 0.05 and beta 0.90, which is considered as 
adequate. Data were summarized using adequate descriptive statistics (mean, SD, variance, median, 
min-max). Majority of analyses are using parametric tests. The treatment of missing PK values and points 
is reported as approached adequately.  
Results 
Pharmacokinetic data for Tenofovir and Emtricitabine are shown in Table 14 and data comparisons in 
Table 15, and in Figure 11. 
Table 9.  Summary of Pharmacokinetic Data for Tenofovir and Emtricitabine  
Tenofovir  
Variable  
*Tmax (hr)  
Test 
Reference 
N   Mean  
Std Dev  
Coeff 
Variation  
of 
Mean  
Std Dev  
Coeff 
Variation  
of 
35   1.000  (0.833- 
0.856  
60.601  
5.000)  
1.250  (0.500- 
3.017)  
0.702  
48.625  
Cmax (ng/mL)  
35   273.699  
64.272  
23.483  
278.381  
65.472  
23.519  
AUC0-t (ng. hr/mL)  
35   2127.577  
458.338   21.543  
2168.022  
457.27  
21.092  
AUC0-inf 
hr/mL)  
(ng. 
35   2371.626  
447.028   18.849  
2380.279  
458.857   19.277  
35   0.0390  
0.0052  
13.3952  
0.0388  
0.0070  
17.9279  
35   18.078  
2.331  
12.892  
18.418  
3.312  
17.983  
Lambda_z  (z or Kel) 
(1/hr)  
HL_Lambda_z    (t½) 
(hr)  
Emtricitabine  
Test 
Reference 
Variable  
*Tmax (hr)  
N   Mean  
35   1.000 
Std Dev  
0.887  
(0.667-5.000)  
Coeff 
of 
Variation   Mean  
1.500 
64.375  
(0.833-5.000)  
Coeff 
Variation  
of 
Std Dev  
0.869  
53.724  
Cmax (ng/mL)  
35   2163.369  
486.127  
22.471  
2210.310  
471.838  
21.347  
AUC0-t 
hr/mL)  
AUC0-inf 
hr/mL)  
(ng. 
35   9760.029  
1742.657  
17.855  
9606.822  
1571.052  
16.354  
(ng. 
35   10145.221  
1773.928  
17.485  
9961.360  
1611.519  
16.178  
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 30/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lambda_z    (z  or 
Kel) (1/hr)  
HL_Lambda_z  
(t½) (hr)  
35   0.1035  
0.0232  
22.4376  
0.1161  
0.0306  
26.3858  
35   7.290  
3.258  
44.688  
6.339  
1.628  
25.690  
*Median values (range) reported for Tmax   
Table 10.  Summary of Geometric mean, Ratio, 90% Confidence intervals, Intra-subject CV (%) and 
power for Tenofovir and Emtricitabine 
Tenofovir (n=35)  
*Geometric Mean  
Parameters  
(Units)  
Test 
product  
(A)  
Reference  
product  
(B)  
Intra  
Subject  
CV %  
90%  
Confidence  
Limits (%)  
Power%   Ratio (A/B)%  
LnCmax (ng/mL)  
LnAUC0-t  (ng.  
hr/mL)  
LnAUC0-inf  
(ng.  
hr/mL)  
266.270  
270.646  
15.28  
92.52- 104.62  
>99.00  
98.38  
2079.73  
2118.62  
8.03  
95.03- 101.40  
>99.00  
98.16  
2330.29  
2332.72  
7.98  
96.72- 103.17  
>99.00  
99.90  
Emtricitabine (n=35)  
*Geometric Mean  
Parameters  
(Units)  
Test 
product  
(A)  
Reference  
product  
(B)  
Intra  
Subject  
CV %  
90%  
Confidence 
(%)  
Limits 
Power%  
Ratio 
B)%  
(A  / 
LnCmax (ng/mL)  
LnAUC0-t  (ng.  
hr/mL)  
LnAUC0-inf  
(ng.  
hr/mL)  
LnAUC0-inf  
(ng.  
hr/mL)  
2110.78  
2161.53  
10.68  
93.53- 101.95  
>99.00  
97.65  
9623.30  
9487.65  
6.15  
98.94- 103.98  
>99.00  
101.43  
10009.28   9840.57  
6.30  
99.16- 104.34  
>99.00  
101.71  
10009.28   9840.57  
6.30  
99.16- 104.34  
>99.00  
101.71  
Note: *Geometric means values are taken from Individual Efficacy Response Data 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 31/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3.  Linear and Semi-Log mean plots for tenofovir and emtricitabine 
Tenofovir 
Linear Scale 
Semi-Log Scale 
Emtricitabine 
Linear Scale 
Semi-Log Scale 
The AUC ratios were higher than 80% in all subjects except in two patients in test arm (in Patients #07 
and #08 that were 79.25% and 77.40%, respectively). No subjects had detected pre-dose plasma levels 
and no subject reached Cmax at the first sampling time point.  The test to reference ratio of geometric 
mean and corresponding 90% CI for the Cmax and AUC0-t fall within acceptable range of 80.00 to 125%. 
The bioequivalence criteria were met under fed conditions. 
Safety data 
Neither death nor serious adverse events occurred during the study. A total 6 adverse events occurred in 
the study of which 4 of them were of moderate intensity while 2 adverse events were of mild intensity: 
For Test Product: Subject 8 experienced nausea in Period I. Subject 29 experienced pain in extremity in 
Period I. 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 32/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For Reference Product: Subject 12 experienced nausea in Period I. Subject 30 experienced headache in 
washout period. Subject 31 experienced constipation in Period I. Subject 34 experienced pain in 
extremity in Period I. 
The Applicant explained that the adverse events that occurred in the study are possibly related to the 
study products. These adverse events considered as the most common adverse events mentioned in the 
literatures.  
All physical examinations and all laboratory parameters were considered as normal by the investigator. 
Blood pressures, heart rate and ECG results were judged as normal (except Subject 02, 14, 25, 28 and 34 
for pre-study, Subject 02, 05, 14 and 29 for post-study for only ECG) by the investigator. 
The Applicant summarised that overall tolerability of the products found to be good. It is agreed that the 
medicines were generally safe and well tolerated by the subjects in the study. 
Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan is considered 
bioequivalent with Truvada. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamic studies were presented and no such studies are required for this application. 
2.4.4.  Additional data 
In vitro dissolution tests complementary to the bioequivalence study 
The in vitro dissolution tests were conducted using an USP type II apparatus (paddle), 900 ml volume and 
a speed of 75 rpm at temperature of 37°C ± 0.5°C. Three different dissolution media were used: 0.1N HCl 
pH 1.2 (Release media), pH 4.5 Acetate buffer and pH 6.8 Phosphate buffer, and a sampling time of 5, 10, 
15, 30, 45 and 60 minutes.  
Comparison of 12 tablets of the test formulation (batch no. 2006426) and the reference formulation 
(batch no. 12TRS141D) used in the bioequivalence study was performed. The dissolution profiles of 
Emtricitabine from the test and from the reference formulation batches were found to be similar when 
compared at pH 1.2, 4.5 and 6.8 with more than 85% dissolved in 10 minutes, and can be considered as 
similar without further mathematical calculations. The dissolution profiles of Tenofovir disoproxil at 0.1 N 
HCl (Release media) differed between products and the similarity factor (f2 value) obtained was found to 
be less than 50. The lower similarity factor values were considered of no significance as the test product 
was found to be bioequivalent to the reference product. The dissolution profiles of Emtricitabine from the 
test and the reference batches were found to be similar at pH levels and at QC conditions with more than 
85% dissolved in 10 minutes. Dissolution profiles for Tenofovir disoproxil at 0.1 N HCl were significantly 
different, but that was not the case at pH 4.5 and 6.8.  
2.4.5.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
2.4.6.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The overview on clinical pharmacology, efficacy and safety provided was considered adequate. To support 
this application the MAA a bioequivalence study was submitted and a statement that study complies with 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 33/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GCP principles was provided. Upon review of the study results a number of issues were raised 
(uncertainties in data management, including peri-database lock procedures, misreported “normal 
values”, questionable “null” values at the end of sampling periods, statistical analyses pre-specifications, 
account for possible dropouts, back-transformation, uncertain precision in data calculation and missing 
information on the database lock). All these issues were clarified and the CHMP considered the responses 
acceptable. In addition, an EU GCP inspection has been conducted and concluded that the clinical trial 
data was acceptable and could be used for the evaluation. 
The study was a randomized, open label, two-treatment, two-sequence, two-period, cross-over, single 
dose, comparative oral bioequivalence study comparing Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil (as Maleate) 
with Truvada (Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil (as fumarate)) in 36 healthy, adult male volunteers 
under fed conditions. Study consisted of two periods (Period I and Period II). After 10 days of washout 
period, in Period II, the subjects have been administered by the other drug that they have not been 
administered in the Period I. After 10 hours of overnight fasting, patients were given high-fat high-calorie 
non vegetarian breakfast ~ 800-1000 kcal till 4 hours post dose. Subjects were housed in the clinical 
facility from at least 12 hours prior to investigational product administration until after the 72 hours post 
dose in both the study periods. Blood samples were collected before dosing and up to 72 hours after each 
dosing period. A validated LC/MS/MS method by solid phase extraction was used to detect both tenofovir 
and emtricitabine concentrations in plasma in human Ks EDTA plasma matrix. The pharmacokinetic and 
statistical methods applied were adequate. The test to reference ratio of geometric mean and 
corresponding 90% CI for the Cmax and AUC0-t were reported as falling within acceptable range of 80.00 
to 125%. The bioequivalence is presented under the fed condition. Both the test and the reference 
medicine were generally safe and well tolerated by the subjects included in the study. 
2.4.7.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
A summary of the literature with regard to clinical data of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan and 
justifications that the different salt of the active substance does not differ significantly in properties with 
regards to safety and efficacy of the reference product was provided and was accepted by the CHMP. This 
is in accordance with the relevant guideline and additional clinical studies were not considered necessary. 
2.5.  Risk management plan 
Safety concerns  
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Post-treatment  hepatic  flares  in  HIV-1/HBV  co-infected 
patients 
- Renal toxicity (in relation to tenofovir) 
- Bone events due to proximal renal tubulopathy/loss of bone 
mineral density (in relation to tenofovir) 
- Interaction with didanosine (in relation to tenofovir) 
- Pancreatitis (in relation to tenofovir) 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 34/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of safety concerns 
Missing information 
 
 
 
 
 
- Safety in elderly patients 
- Safety in pregnancy 
- Safety in lactation 
- Safety in children (including long-term safety) [in relation to 
tenofovir] 
-  Safety  in  patients  with  renal  impairment  (in  relation  to 
tenofovir) 
Pharmacovigilance plan  
Activity/Study title 
Objectives 
Safety 
Status Planned, 
Date for 
(type of activity, 
study title [if 
known] category 
1-3)  
concerns 
addressed 
started,   
submission of 
interim or final 
reports (planned 
or actual) 
Antiretroviral 
To collect 
Missing 
Mylan is planning to 
Not applicable 
Pregnancy Registry 
information on 
information: 
the risk of birth 
Safety in 
participate in 
Antiretroviral 
defects in 
patients 
exposed to TDF 
during 
pregnancy 
pregnancy 
Pregnancy Registry 
following product 
approval. 
Company will 
initiate 
communication 
with registry 
organisers 
Risk minimisation measures 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures 
measures 
Important identified risks:  
Post-treatment hepatic flares 
Section 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8 of the SPC 
None 
in HIV-1/HBV co-infected 
contain adequate information on this 
patients 
safety concern. 
Sections 2 and 3 of PL advise patients 
on this safety concern. 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 35/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures 
measures 
Renal toxicity (in relation to 
Section 4.2, 4.4, 4.5 and 4.8 of the 
Educational brochure for 
tenofovir) 
SPC contain adequate information on 
physicians 
this safety concern. 
Sections 2 and 4 of PL advise patients 
on this safety concern. 
Bone events due to proximal 
Section 4.4 and 4.8 of the SPC contain 
Educational brochure for 
renal tubulopathy/loss of BMD 
adequate information on this safety 
physicians 
(in relation to tenofovir) 
concern. 
Sections 2 and 4 of PL advise patients 
on this safety concern 
Interaction with didanosine (in 
Section 4.4, 4.5 and 4.8 of the SPC 
None 
relation to tenofovir)  
contain adequate information on this 
safety concern. 
Sections 2 of PL advise patients on this 
safety concern 
Pancreatitis (in relation to 
Section 4.4, 4.5 and 4.8 of the SPC 
None 
tenofovir) 
contain adequate information on this 
safety concern. 
Sections 2 and 4 of PL advise patients 
on this safety concern 
Missing information:  
Safety in elderly patients 
Section  4.2,  4.4,  4.8  and  5.2  of  the 
None 
SPC contains information on the lack of 
experience in elderly patients. 
Section 2 of PIL addresses this lack of 
information in elderly patients. 
Safety in pregnancy 
Section  4.6  of  the  SPC  contains 
None 
information  on  the  lack  of  experience 
during pregnancy. 
Section 2 of PIL addresses this lack of 
information during pregnancy. 
Safety in lactation 
Section  4.6  of  the  SPC  contains 
None 
information  on  the  lack  of  experience 
during lactation. 
Section 2 of PIL addresses this lack of 
information during lactation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 36/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety concern 
Routine risk minimisation 
Additional risk minimisation 
measures 
measures 
Safety in children (including 
Section 4.2, 4.8 and 5.2 of the SPC 
None 
long-term safety) [in relation 
contains information on the lack of 
to tenofovir] 
experience in children under the age of 
18 years. 
Section 2 of PIL addresses this lack of 
information in children under the age 
of 18 years. 
Safety in patients with renal 
Section 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2 of the SPC 
Educational brochure for 
impairment (in relation to 
contains information on the lack of 
physicians 
tenofovir) 
experience in patients with renal 
impairment. 
Section 2 of PIL addresses this lack of 
information in patients with renal 
impairment. 
Conclusion 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 3.0 with the above content is 
acceptable.  
2.6.  PSUR submission 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
2.8.  Product information 
In line with the reference product, the SmPCs/PILs state in section 4.2 that for administration, the tablets 
may be disintegrated and mixed with at least 100 ml of water, orange juice, or grape juice prior to 
administration in patients with difficulties swallowing tablets whole. The applicant has provided data as 
requested by the CHMP in support of the alternative method of administration. Although the BE was 
demonstrated with tablets taken whole, the data provided support the applicability of specific 
administration recommendation in the reference product (Truvada) SmPC to Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil Mylan. 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 37/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.8.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
This application concerns a generic version of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil film-coated tablets. The 
reference product Truvada is indicated for treatment and prevention of HIV infection. No nonclinical 
studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the available nonclinical 
information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. From a clinical perspective, 
this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics as well as the 
efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical overview on these clinical aspects 
based on information from published literature was considered sufficient. 
The bioequivalence study forms the pivotal basis with an open-label, balanced, randomized, single dose, 
two treatment, two sequence, two period crossover bioequivalence study under fed conditions. The study 
design was considered adequate to evaluate the bioequivalence of this formulation and was in line with 
the respective European requirements. Choice of dose, sampling points, overall sampling time as well as 
wash-out period were adequate. The analytical method was validated. Pharmacokinetic and statistical 
methods applied were adequate. 
The test formulation of [applied product] met the protocol-defined criteria for bioequivalence when 
compared with the [reference product]. The point estimates and their 90% confidence intervals for the 
parameters AUC0-t,, AUC0-, and Cmax were all contained within the protocol-defined acceptance range of 
[range, e.g. 80.00 to 125.00%]. Bioequivalence of the two formulations was demonstrated. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen reference 
medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond 
those included in the product information. 
4.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that 
the benefit-risk balance of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan is favourable in the following 
indication: 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan is indicated in antiretroviral combination therapy for the 
treatment of HIV 1 infected adults (see section 5.1).The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the 
marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 38/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the agreed 
RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the 
RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Additional risk minimisation measures 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) shall ensure that all physicians who are expected to 
prescribe/use Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan in adult patients are provided with a physician 
educational pack containing the Summary of Product Characteristics and an appropriate educational 
brochure, as detailed below: 
• 
HIV renal educational brochure 
The HIV renal educational brochure should contain the following key messages: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
That there is an increased risk of renal disease in HIV infected patients associated with tenofovir 
disoproxil fumarate-containing products such as Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan 
That Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan should only be used in patients with impaired renal 
function if the potential benefits are considered to outweigh the potential risks  
That use of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan should be avoided with concomitant or 
recent use of nephrotoxic medicinal products. If Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan is used 
with nephrotoxic medicinal products, renal function should be closely monitored according to the 
recommended schedule 
That patients should have their baseline renal function assessed prior to initiating 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Mylan therapy 
The importance of regular monitoring of renal function during Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
Mylan therapy 
Recommended schedule for monitoring renal function considering the presence or absence of 
additional risk factors for renal impairment 
Instructions on the use of the creatinine clearance slide ruler 
Assessment report  
EMA/756040/2016  
Page 39/39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
