Summary of risk management plan for Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
Krka 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka. 
The RMP details important risks of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka, how these risks can be 
minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil 
Krka 's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka 's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its 
package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka should be used.   
This summary of the RMP for Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka should be read in the context 
of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka 's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka is indicated in antiretroviral combination therapy for 
the treatment of HIV-1 infected adults, for the treatment of HIV-1 infected adolescents, 
with NRTI resistance or toxicities precluding the use of first line agents, aged 12 to < 18 
years and indicated in combination with safer sex practices for pre-exposure prophylaxis 
to reduce the risk of sexually acquired HIV-1 infection in adults at high risk. 
It contains Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil as the active substance and it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka’s benefits can be 
found in Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, 
available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/efavirenzemtricitabinetenofovir-disoproxil-
krka 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important  risks  of  Emtricitabine/Tenofovir  disoproxil  Krka,  together  with  measures  to  minimise 
such  risks  and  the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more  about  Emtricitabine/Tenofovir  disoproxil 
Krka's risks, are outlined below.  
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In the case of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka, these measures are supplemented with 
additional risk minimisatio measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed , including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka is 
not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka are risks that need special risk 
management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product 
can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil Krka. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine 
is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs 
further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product 
that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks: 
Getting HIV-1 infection  
(HIV-1 acquisition, including infection resulting from non-
adherence ) (PrEP indication) (emtricitabine/tenofovir) 
Development of resistance in patients with unrecognized or 
acute HIV-1 infection (PrEP indication) (emtricitabine/tenofovir) 
Kidney problems  
(Renal toxicity) (tenofovir) 
Bone problems   
(Bone events due to proximal renal tubulopathy/loss of BMD) 
(tenofovir) 
Important potential risks: 
None 
Missing information: 
Limited information on use in pregnant and breastfeeding 
women 
(Safety in pregnancy and lactation) (tenofovir) 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Summary of important risk that have corresponding additional risk minimisation activities is: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important  identified  risk  <  HIV-1  acquisition,  including  infection  resulting  from  non-
adherence (PrEP indication)(emtricitabine/tenofovir)> 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measure: 
SmPC section 4.4. where also rcommendation for 
frequent reconfirmation of HIV negativity and stressing 
of importance of adherence to therapy are included. 
PL section 2 and 3., also with the information how the 
patients must take the medicine, recommendation 
about telling the doctor about recent flu-like illness, 
and recommendations for additional measures for 
lowering of risk of getting HIV. 
Important identified risk < Development of resistance in patients with unrecognized or 
acute HIV-1 infection (PrEP indication) )(emtricitabine/tenofovir)> 
Risk minimisation measures 
4.3 
and 
sections 
4.4.  where 
Routine risk minimisation measure: 
SmPC 
also 
recommendation  for  frequent  reconfirmation  of  HIV 
negativity is included. 
PL section 2 also with the information on how to detect 
early signs and symptoms of HIV infection, 
recommendation about telling the doctor about recent 
flu-like illness, and recommendations for additional 
measures for lowering of risk of getting HIV. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Educational materials: 
- 
PrEP educational brochure for prescribers 
entitled ‘Important Safety Information for 
Prescribers About Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil Krka for a Pre-exposure 
Prophylaxis (PrEP) Indication’  
PrEP Checklist for prescribers 
PrEP educational brochure for the 
individual at risk entitled ‘Important 
Information About Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil Krka to Reduce the Risk of 
getting Human Immunodeficiency Virus 
(HIV) Infection’ 
PrEP reminder card 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
Educational materials: 
- 
PrEP educational brochure for prescribers 
entitled ‘Important Safety Information for 
Prescribers About Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil Krka for a Pre-exposure 
Prophylaxis (PrEP) Indication’  
PrEP Checklist for prescribers 
PrEP educational brochure for the 
individual at risk entitled ‘Important 
Information About Emtricitabine/Tenofovir 
disoproxil Krka to Reduce the Risk of 
getting Human Immunodeficiency Virus 
(HIV) Infection’ 
PrEP reminder card 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Important identified risk < Renal toxicity (tenofovir)> 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measure: 
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.5 and 4.8,. 
SmPC section 4.4 where also advice is given on 
monitoring the renal function, including additional renal 
management for HIV-1 infected patients. 
PL section 2 and 4 where the information on how to 
detect early signs and symptoms of renal toxicity is 
also included.  
Additional risk minimisation measure: 
Educational materials: 
HIV pediatric renal educational brochure 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Emtricitabine/Tenofovir disoproxil Krka. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
