EMA/398383/2014 
EMEA/H/C/000262 
EPAR summary for the public 
Enbrel 
etanercept 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Enbrel. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Enbrel. 
What is Enbrel? 
Enbrel is a medicine that contains the active substance etanercept. It is available as vials containing a 
powder that is made up into a solution for injection, and as prefilled syringes and pens containing a 
solution for injection.  
What is Enbrel used for? 
Enbrel is an anti inflammatory medicine. It is used for the treatment of the following diseases: 
  moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis (an immune system disease causing inflammation of the 
joints) in adults (aged 18 years or over). Enbrel is used with methotrexate (a medicine that acts on 
the immune system) in adults with moderate or severe disease who have not responded 
adequately to other treatments, or on its own if methotrexate is not suitable for the patient. Enbrel 
can also be used in patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis who have not taken methotrexate 
before; 
 
certain forms of juvenile idiopathic arthritis (a rare childhood disease causing inflammation of 
many joints) in the following groups: 
  patients aged two to 17 years who have polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or 
negative) and extended oligoarthritis and have not responded adequately to or 
cannot take methotrexate; 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  adolescents aged 12 to 17 years who have psoriatic arthritis (a disease causing red, 
scaly patches on the skin and inflammation of the joints) and have not responded 
adequately to or cannot take methotrexate; 
  adolescents aged 12 to 17 years who have enthesitis-related arthritis and have not 
responded adequately to or cannot take standard treatment.  
 
 
psoriatic arthritis in adults who have not responded adequately to other treatments; 
severe ankylosing spondylitis (a disease causing inflammation of the joints of the spine) in adults 
who have not responded adequately to other treatments; 
 
plaque psoriasis (a disease causing red, scaly patches on the skin) in adults with moderate to 
severe disease and in patients from the age of six years with long-term severe disease;. Enbrel is 
used in patients who have not responded to or cannot receive other treatments for this disease. 
  Severe non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (a chronic inflammatory disease of the spine) when 
there are objective signs of inflammation but no abnormalities seen on x-ray. 
For more information, see the summary of product characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Enbrel used? 
Enbrel treatment should be started and supervised by a specialised doctor who has experience in the 
diagnosis and treatment of the diseases that Enbrel is used to treat. 
Enbrel is given by injection under the skin. For adults, the usual recommended dose is 25 mg twice a 
week or 50 mg once a week. Treatment with 50 mg twice a week can also be used during the first 12 
weeks of treatment for plaque psoriasis. For patients below 18 years of age, the dose depends on body 
weight. The patient or carer can give the injection if they have been trained appropriately. For more 
information, see the package leaflet. 
Patients who take Enbrel must be given the special alert card that summarises important safety 
information about the medicine. 
How does Enbrel work? 
The active substance in Enbrel, etanercept, is a protein that has been designed to block the activity of 
a chemical messenger in the body called tumour necrosis factor (TNF). This messenger is found at high 
levels in patients with the diseases that Enbrel is used to treat. By blocking TNF, etanercept reduces 
the inflammation and other symptoms of the diseases. Etanercept is produced by a method known as 
‘recombinant DNA technology’: it is made by cells that have received a gene (DNA) that makes them 
able to produce etanercept. 
How has Enbrel been studied? 
Enbrel has been studied in five main studies in rheumatoid arthritis, involving about 2,200 patients and 
lasting from three months to two years. Three studies compared Enbrel with placebo (a dummy 
treatment) in patients who had taken arthritis medicines in the past. One of these studies examined 
Enbrel’s effects as an add-on to methotrexate in 89 patients. In the fourth study, Enbrel was compared 
with methotrexate in 632 patients who had not taken methotrexate before. The fifth study compared 
the effectiveness of Enbrel, methotrexate and a combination of both in 686 patients. 
Enbrel  
EMA/398383/2014  
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enbrel was also compared with placebo in 51 children with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis, 
205 adults with psoriatic arthritis, 357 adults with ankylosing spondylitis, 1,263 adults and 211 
children with plaque psoriasis, as well as in 225 patients with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis. 
In all of the studies, the main measure of effectiveness was the change in symptoms. 
The studies in children with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and plaque psoriasis were followed 
up with long term studies to assess the safety of long term treatment in children. 
What benefit has Enbrel shown during the studies? 
Overall, in the studies of rheumatoid arthritis, about two-thirds of the patients receiving Enbrel had a 
reduction in symptoms of 20% or more after three months. This compared with around a quarter of 
the patients receiving placebo. In the study of patients who had not taken methotrexate before, those 
receiving 25 mg Enbrel twice a week had less joint damage than those taking methotrexate alone after 
12 and 24 months. In the fifth study, Enbrel on its own or in combination with methotrexate was more 
effective than methotrexate alone. 
For all other diseases studied, Enbrel produced a greater improvement in symptoms than placebo after 
three to four months. 
The long term safety studies found that Enbrel could be used in polyarticular juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis in children from the age of two years and plaque psoriasis from the age of six years.  
What is the risk associated with Enbrel? 
The most common side effects with Enbrel (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are injection site 
reactions (including bleeding, bruising, redness, itching, pain and swelling) and infections (including 
colds, and lung, bladder and skin infections). Patients developing a serious infection should stop Enbrel 
treatment. For the full list of all side effects reported with Enbrel, see the package leaflet. 
Enbrel must not be used in patients who have or are at risk of sepsis (when bacteria and toxins 
circulate in the blood and start to damage the organs), or in patients with infections. For the full list of 
restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Enbrel been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Enbrel’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Enbrel? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Enbrel is used as safely as possible. Based 
on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet for Enbrel, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
The company that makes Enbrel will provide educational material for doctors expected to prescribe the 
product (to teach patients how to use the pre-filled pen correctly) and for patients (so they can 
recognise any serious side effects, and know when to seek urgent attention from their doctor). 
Enbrel  
EMA/398383/2014  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other information about Enbrel 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Enbrel on 3 February 2000.  
The full EPAR for Enbrel can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Enbrel, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2014.  
Enbrel  
EMA/398383/2014  
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
