11 January 2013 
EMA/20004/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Enbrel 
etanercept 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000262/A46/145.1 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Rapporteur’s Assessment Report 
for Post-Authorisation Commitments (PACs) 
Enbrel 
etanercept 
EMEA/H/C/262 
P46 145.1 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: Wyeth 
Rapporteur:  
Start of the procedure: 
Date of the report: 
Deadline for CHMP member’s 
comments: 
Robert Hemmings 
25th July 2010 
25th August 2010 
6th September 2010 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
ASSESSMENT 
Introduction 
This report covers the following post-authorisation commitments undertaken by the MAH: 
Response to the outstanding question following the assessment of FUM 145 (article 46) 
Following the CHMP assessment report for FUM 145 (Paediatric article 46 Follow up measure 145) the 
final CHMP opinion was circulated on 22nd April 2010. The conclusions of the FUM 145 were: 
The data from the long-term study 20021618 has shown that the safety profile for paediatric subjects is 
consistent with what is known for etanercept.  The data submitted in accordance with Article 46 is 
considered satisfactory and no changes to the SPC are requested.  
Long-term efficacy has been demonstrated in adults. The safety profile from this long-term open label 
study does not give rise to new concerns.  Although the SIR for lymphomas in adults is 4.03 compared 
with the SEER database, this is based on 7 cases, with no control group. The ongoing pharmacovigilance 
relating to long-term safety with anti-TNF therapies will continue to monitor for safety signals and so no 
change to the SPC is required as a result of this data. No change to the positive benefit:risk ratio for 
etanercept follows from this FUM.  The PAC is fulfilled with one outstanding question. 
While it is likely that efficacy was maintained in those who remained on etanercept, it is difficult to 
evaluate long-term efficacy after year 6 from the paediatric data. The number of subjects for whom there 
was efficacy data available after year 6 constitutes a progressively smaller percentage of the patients still 
in the study at those time points. 
The MAH is requested to explain why such little efficacy data was available in the later years of the study 
for the paediatric subjects. 
Assessment 
Response to CHMP RSI relating to study 20021618 
QUESTION 
While it is likely that efficacy was maintained in those who remained on etanercept, it is difficult to 
evaluate long-term efficacy after year 6 from the paediatric data. The number of subjects for whom there 
was efficacy data available after year 6 constitutes a progressively smaller percentage of the patients still 
in the study at those time points. The MAH is requested to explain why such little efficacy data was 
available in the later years of the study for the paediatric subjects. 
MAH RESPONSE 
The MAH acknowledges that, in the final years of study 20021618, there was a steady decrease among 
subjects that were initially enrolled as pediatric subjects and who had efficacy evaluations at the later time 
points. The number of subjects continuing on study and the number of subjects with efficacy evaluations 
(JRA Definition of Improvement, JRA-DOI) are presented in Table 1-1, for years 6 through 10.  
The Statistical Analysis Plan defined the following study rules for the derivation of JRADOI:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
The JRA DOI was not derived if the subject joint count data were recorded on adult joint count case report 
forms, since the adult joint count assessment captured the number of tender/painful and swollen joints, 
whereas, the pediatric joint count included pain on motion (POM) and loss or limitation of motion (LOM). 
The JRA DOI was set to missing in this case. The JRA DOI was assessed according to the following: an 
improvement of at least 30% (50%, 70%, 90%, and 100%) from baseline in at least 3 of the 6 criteria of 
the Juvenile Rheumatoid Arthritis Core Set of Response Criteria, and a worsening of greater or equal to 
30% in not more than 1 of the following 6 criteria from baseline: Physician’s global assessment of disease 
activity, Subject’s/Parent’s global assessment of disease activity, number of active joints, CHAQ, CRP, 
and the number of joints with loss or loss of motion (LOM) plus pain and/or tenderness. No LOCF 
techniques were used for the JRA DOI response or its components. 
As noted in Table 2-4 of the submitted Clinical Overview, Footnote “b”, values of the JRA DOI 
components were not available for all subjects at all time points. The “N” for the JRA DOI assessments 
per year included those subjects who had any available disease activity measures used for the JRA DOI. 
Any combination of missing data from the JRA DOI components may have contributed to the low number 
of subjects that were evaluable. 
Taking year 10 as an example, the reason for the absence of JRA-ROI for 11 of the 14 subjects remaining 
in the trial was that they were older than 17 years at the time of assessment, and thus their data were 
recorded in the adult case record form, which lacked the component data required to calculate the JRA-
DOI score. 
It is important to note that, as reflected in Table 2-4 of the Clinical Overview submitted with FUM 145, 
efficacy appeared to be maintained among those subjects with complete DOI assessments from study 
years 6 through 10. 
Comment: The switch from the paediatric JRA assessment to the adult assessment explains the reduction 
over time for the older paediatric cases who remained in the study over prolonged periods. The MAH 
position that the percentages who complete JRA-DOI assessments continue to show evidence of efficacy 
is accepted. Point resolved. 
II. 
RAPPORTEUR’S OVERALL CONCLUSION AND FURTHER 
ACTION IF REQUIRED 
FUM 145.1 
Overall Conclusion: 
The MAH has addressed the clinical question arising from FUM 145, regarding the lower absolute number 
of patients available for efficacy assessments after year 6. The position that the older paediatric cases that 
were in the trial until after the age of 18 yrs had their disease activity assessed using the appropriate adult 
joint assessment, explains much of the reduction in numbers over time. 
The MAH response is accepted.   
  PAC fulfilled (all commitments fulfilled) - No further action required 
 
 
 
   
 
