European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 20 November 2008 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
ENBREL 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
INN- etanercept 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/262/II/94 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.(44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 85 45 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I.  SCIENTIFIC CONCLUSION...................................................................................................... 3 
1. 
Introduction .............................................................................................................................. 3 
2.  Clinical aspects ......................................................................................................................... 3 
2.1  Clinical Pharmacology......................................................................................................... 6 
2.2  Clinical efficacy .................................................................................................................... 7 
3.  Clinical safety.......................................................................................................................... 19 
3.1 Safety-Related Discontinuations .......................................................................................... 23 
3.2 Serious Adverse Events......................................................................................................... 23 
3.3 Risk management plan.......................................................................................................... 25 
3.4 Discussion on clinical safety.................................................................................................. 27 
4.  Overall conclusion and benefit risk assessment................................................................... 29 
CHANGES TO THE PRODUCT INFORMATION........................................................... 29 
CONCLUSION....................................................................................................................... 30 
II. 
III. 
2/30 
 
 
I. 
SCIENTIFIC CONCLUSION  
1. 
Introduction 
Etanercept is an anti-tumour necrosis factor (TNF) agent that has been approved for the treatment of 
moderate  to  severe  plaque  psoriasis  in  adult  patients,  Rheumatoid  Arthritis  (RA),  Ankylosing 
Spondylitis (AS), Psoriatic arthritis (PsA) and Polyarticular Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (JIA).  
Plaque  psoriasis  is  a  common  condition  affecting  1-3%  of  the  population.  In  about  one  third  of 
patients, psoriasis starts in the first or second decade of life (Benoit and Hamm, 2007 Clin Dermatol.; 
25(6):555-62.).  Systemic  therapy  is  reserved  for  a  minority  of  cases  (Leman  J,  Burden  D.  2001, 
Paediatric  Drugs;3(9):673-80).  Currently  licensed  medications  for  paediatric  plaque  psoriasis  are 
limited and the options available vary from one country to another.  
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) submitted this Type II variation to extend the indication to 
“treatment of chronic moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents aged 4 to 17 
years who are inadequately controlled by, or are intolerant to topical or other systemic therapies or 
photo-therapies”. The posology proposed was 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 50 mg per dose) once 
weekly  for  up  to  24  weeks  and  if  re-treatment  with  Enbrel  is  indicated,  the  same  guidance  for 
treatment duration was applied for. 
Consequential  changes  were  proposed  to  sections  4.2,  4.8,  5.1  and  5.2  of  the  summary  of  product 
information (SPC) and sections 1 and 3 of the Package Leaflet (PL).  
In addition, the MAH took the opportunity to relocate one sentence in section 7 of the PL (Instructions 
for Preparing and Giving an Injection of Enbrel) for the paediatric pack. In the subsection on “Adding 
solvent to the vial”, under step 3, the sentence “Remove the solvent syringe and needle from the vial 
and discard them.” was moved from the end of the paragraph to the beginning of the paragraph. This 
change places the sequence of steps in the powder reconstitution procedure in the proper order for the 
patient. 
2. 
Clinical aspects 
One  clinical  study  (20030211)  was  submitted  in  this  dossier  to  support  the  use  of  etanercept  in  the 
treatment of plaque psoriasis in paediatric patients.  
Main Study 
Study  20030211  was  a  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  multicentre  study  of  211 
subjects,  followed  by  an  open-label  treatment  period and  a  randomised treatment  withdrawal  period 
(total duration 48-weeks), to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetics (PK) of etanercept 0.8 
mg/kg (up to a maximum dose of 50 mg) once a week (QW) versus placebo in children (ages 4 to 11 
years) and adolescents (ages 12 to 17 years) with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who met study 
eligibility criteria.  
The study consisted of 3 treatment periods (Figure 1):  
(1) a double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment period lasting 12 weeks;  
(2) an open-label treatment period lasting 24 weeks; and  
(3) a randomised, double-blind, withdrawal-retreatment period lasting 12 weeks.  
During the double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment period, subjects with substantial worsening of 
their  disease  were  given  the  option  to  enter  an  escape  arm  where  they  would  receive  open-label 
etanercept therapy. Additionally, during the open-label treatment period, subjects who did not achieve 
a  pre-specified  disease  improvement  (psoriasis  area  and  severity  index  (PASI)  501  at  24  weeks  or 
PASI 752 at 36 weeks) were given the option to withdraw from the study or to enter an incomplete-
1 A PASI 50 response was defined as a 50% or greater decrease (i.e., improvement) from baseline in PASI score. 
2 A PASI 75 response was defined as a 75% or greater decrease (i.e., improvement) from baseline in PASI score. 
3/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
responder arm and add topical standard of care to the investigational therapy. Subjects who achieved 
disease  control  at  week  36  (PASI  75)  were  re-randomised  double-blind  to  receive  etanercept  or 
placebo  (the  withdrawal-retreatment  period)  to  evaluate  disease  relapse  and  durability  of  response. 
Subjects  who  no  longer  maintained  a  PASI  75  response  could  resume  treatment  with  open-label 
etanercept in the incomplete responder arm. 
Figure 1: Design of Study 20030211 
Double-Blind 
Treatment
Open-Label Treatment
Randomized Double-blind                     
Withdrawal-Retreatment
d
b
ESCAPE
ESCAPE
ARM
ARM
etanercept
etanercept
QW
QW
e
PASI 
Worsening 
> 50%
INCOMPLETE RESPONDER ARM
etanercept QW
INCOMPLETE RESPONDER ARM
etanercept QW
c
Not Achieved 
PASI 50
Not Achieved 
PASI 75
Screening
Screening
etanercept
etanercept
or placebo QW
or placebo QW
1:1
1:1
N=100 per 
N=100 per 
group
group
etanercept QW
etanercept QW
etanercept
etanercept
or placebo QW
or placebo QW
1:1
1:1
Key Assessments: PASI, sPGA, PRO, AE, Lab, Ab, PK
Key Assessments: PASI, sPGA, PRO, AE, Lab, Ab, PK
Randomization
a
etanercept
QW
R
E
L
A
P
S
E
-W5
Day 1
W4
W12
W24
W36
W48
Inclusion Criteria 
All  subjects  were  anti-TNF  therapy  naïve  and  were  between  4  and  17  years  old  inclusive  with  a 
history of stable moderate to severe plaque psoriasis (static physician global assessment (sPGA) score 
of ≥3, PASI score of ≥12, and body surface area (BSA) involvement ≥10%) for ≥6 months at the time 
of randomisation. Subjects were required to  
•  Have current or past treatment with phototherapy or systemic psoriasis therapy (e.g. methotrexate, 
cyclosporin, retinoids), or  
•  Be  considered  poorly  controlled  with  topical  psoriasis  therapy,  as  evidenced  by  persistence  of 
moderate  to  severe  psoriasis  despite  a  current  or  previous  treatment  course  of  at  least  6-week 
duration  with  a  corticosteroid  of  at  least  moderate  potency  or  a  vitamin  D  analogue.  Persistent 
moderately  severe  psoriasis  during  the  treatment  course  was  defined  as  signs  and  symptoms  of 
psoriasis listed as follows, occurring over a clinically significant portion of the body surface area 
(BSA), in the opinion of the investigator: erythema – at least moderate red coloration, induration – 
at least moderate plaque elevation with rounded or sloped edges, scaling – at least coarse scaling. 
Exclusion Criteria 
The following were specific exclusion criteria: 
The presence of guttate, erythrodermic, or pustular psoriasis during the screening period or any other 
skin  condition  (e.g.  eczema)  which  would  interfere  with  evaluations  of  the  effect  of  investigational 
product on psoriasis: any chronic or recurrent active infection within 6 months of screening: receipt of 
any  systemic  psoriasis  therapy  or  oral  or  parenteral  steroids  within  14  days  before  the  first  dose  of 
investigational  product:  receipt  of  any  topical  therapy  (vitamin  A  or  D  analogues,  anthralin,  or 
calcineurin  inhibitor)  -  other  than  topical  steroids  at  no  higher  than  moderate  strength  on  the  scalp, 
axillae, and groin - within 14 days before the first dose of investigational product: receipt of any other 
investigational product within 30 days before the first dose of investigational product: receipt of live 
attenuated  vaccine  (e.g.  MMR,  varicella)  within  12  weeks  before  the  first  dose  of  investigational 
4/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
product, or intranasal influenza vaccine (FluMist). Other relevant exclusion criteria were the diagnosis 
of  multiple  sclerosis  or  any  other  demyelinating  disease;  insulin-dependent  diabetes  mellitus  or  a 
history of cancer. 
Prior and Concomitant Therapy 
Subjects  must  have  had  an  updated  immunisation  schedule  according  to  the  American  Academy  of 
Paediatrics guideline in the US or the Canadian Immunization Guide in Canada to minimise the need 
for immunisation during the study treatment period. 
Throughout  the  study,  investigators  could  prescribe  concomitant  medications  or  treatments  deemed 
necessary to provide adequate supportive care other than the disallowed medications as listed below. 
To prevent interference with efficacy assessments, subjects were not to receive the following therapies 
throughout the duration of the study, including the 30-day follow-up period: 
•  PUVA, UVA, or UVB therapy 
•  Any systemic psoriasis therapy (e.g., methotrexate, cyclosporine, etanercept or any other anti-TNF 
agent(s)) 
•  Oral or parenteral corticosteroids including intramuscular or intraarticular administration (the use 
of otic, nasal, or inhaled corticosteroids within recommended doses was allowed). 
•  Topical  steroids,  topical  vitamin  A  or  D  analog  preparations,  or  anthralin.  The  use  of  topical 
steroids that are low or moderate potency, per the package insert, was allowed during the study on 
the scalp, axilla, and groin only. At the investigator’s discretion, the use of topical steroids of mild 
potency, per the package insert, was allowed on the face. 
Exception: Topical standard of care, including those listed above, was allowed for subjects who 
entered the incomplete-responder arm. 
•  Topical calcineurin inhibitors 
Exception: allowed for subjects who entered the incomplete-responder arm 
•  Kineret (anakinra) 
•  Any investigational product other than etanercept 
•  Excessive sunbathing or use of tanning salons 
Subjects who entered the incomplete-responder arm could be treated with topical standard of care such 
as  vitamin  A  and  vitamin  D  analogue  preparations,  anthralin,  calcineurin  inhibitors,  and 
corticosteroids (mild or moderate, per package inserts). 
Topical  anaesthetic  agents  were  encouraged  for  use  as  local  analgesia  approximately  30  minutes 
before SC injections of investigational product or prior to venipuncture. 
In  the  event  the  subject  was  exposed  to  or  infected with  varicella  zoster  virus  during  the  study,  the 
subject was treated according to the standard of care for those at high risk of developing severe disease 
(e.g. varicella zoster immunoglobulin and/or acyclovir). 
The CHMP considered the study design adequate according to its objectives. The randomised, double-
blind comparison with placebo during 12 weeks allowed for efficacy and safety assessment, while for 
an evaluation of treatment duration, the open-label and withdrawal retreatment periods are of interest, 
although the total study duration of 48 weeks was considered insufficient for a full characterisation of 
an adequate use of a new drug in a chronically remitting and relapsing disease. 
In order to ensure an adequate disease control, escape of the treatment allocated was allowed during 
the  study,  from  as  soon  as  week  4,  in  order  to  receive  open-label  etanercept.  Although  this  can 
facilitate a disease improvement, it also complicated the analysis and interpretation of study results. 
During the study, concomitant therapies for psoriasis, (apart from topical steroids of low to moderate 
potency  in  limited  areas),  were  not  allowed  (except  in  the  incomplete-responder  arm);  however,  in 
clinical practice, possibly, the combination of both therapies could be beneficial. 
The study population was in accordance with the target population of this variation, although the lower 
age  limit  of  4  years  precluded  obtaining  information  in  children  of  3  years-old  or  younger  with 
psoriasis. 
5/30 
 
 
 
 
Clinical Pharmacology 
2.1 
Clinical pharmacokinetics 
The formulation of etanercept used in study 20030211 was the 25-mg lyophilized vial that is currently 
approved.  Therefore,  there  was  no  new  important  information  related  to  bioavailability  that  might 
affect efficacy and/or safety. 
In study 20030211, the posology proposed was 0.8 mg/kg once weekly to a maximum dose of 50 mg. 
This choice  of  posology  was  based  on the  fact  that  0.4  mg/kg  twice  weekly  is used in JIA  and that 
equivalence between posology of 25 mg twice weekly and 50 mg once weekly in adults has previously 
been demonstrated in AS and RA. Of note is that a marketing authorisation has been granted for once 
weekly etanercept in adults with PsA, based on population PK data and efficacy data. 
Serum etanercept concentrations were determined from all etanercept-treated subjects with available 
samples (Table 1). 
Table 1. Summary Statistics of the Pharmacokinetic Data per Time Point Based on Subjects 
Who Were Assigned to Etanercept Treatment 
At  week  12,  the  mean  trough  etanercept  concentration  for  subjects  who  were  initially  randomly 
assigned to etanercept was 1614 ng/mL. At  week 48, the mean trough etanercept concentration was 
1650  ng/mL  for  all  subjects  who  received  etanercept  for  at  least  12  weeks  and  for  subjects  who 
received  etanercept  during  the  entire  48-week  study,  the  mean  trough  etanercept  concentration  was 
1829 ng/mL at week 48. 
Etanercept concentrations were determined after receiving 0.8  mg/kg (up to 50 mg) QW etanercept. 
The  mean  etanercept  concentrations  in  this  study  did  not  differ  substantially  along  the  study  and 
neither from those found previously in paediatric juvenile arthritis patients or adult psoriasis patients 
with 25 mg etanercept BIW, in spite of the different dosing interval.  
Analysis of the serum etanercept concentration within the two age groups studied (4-11 years and 12-
17  years)  was  requested.  A  description  of  pharmacokinetic  results  (serum  etanercept  concentration) 
according to the age of the study patients and the age distribution within the paediatric age subgroups 
was  provided.  These  data  showed  that  the  serum  of  etanercept  levels  were  comparable  in  both  age 
groups.  
The MAH also presented the distribution of the study subjects from the minimum age of 4 years to the 
maximum age of 17 years (Table 2) and clarified that there were more subjects at the upper end of the 
age interval, reflecting higher prevalence of paediatric psoriasis in adolescents than in children. 
6/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP  was  of  the  opinion that the breakdown  of  data  by  age  highlighted a  lack  of insufficient 
data in the younger age group (under the age of 8 years). The CHMP therefore recommended that until 
further  data  is  available  in  younger  children,  the  license  for  paediatric  plaque  psoriasis  should  be 
restricted to children over the age of 8 years.  
2.2 
Clinical efficacy 
Efficacy Endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the PASI 75 response at week 12.  
The secondary efficacy endpoints included the following: 
•  PASI 50 response at week 12  
•  PASI 90 response at week 12 
•  Clear/almost clear status of sPGA at week 12 
•  Percentage  improvement  from  baseline  in  children’s  dermatology  life  quality  index  (CDLQI)  at 
week 12 
Other  efficacy  endpoints  included:  PASI  50,  PASI  75,  and  PASI  90  responses,  clear/almost  clear 
status  of  sPGA  and  percentage  improvement  from  baseline  in  CDLQI  at  each  scheduled  visit  week 
(except week 12); sPGA, clear status of sPGA, percentage improvement from baseline in PASI score 
and  CDLQI  subscales; improvement  from  baseline  in joint  pain, Stein  Impact  on  Family,  Paediatric 
Quality of Life Inventory total score and subscale scores, Harter’s Self-Perception Profile for Children 
(6  subscales),  and  Harter’s  Self-Perception  Profile  for  Adolescents  (9  subscales)  at  each  scheduled 
visit week.   
In  addition,  the  following  efficacy  endpoints  were  analysed  as  part  of  the  final  week-48  analysis: 
improvement  from  baseline  in  photograph-derived  nail  psoriasis  severity  index  (NAPSI)  at  each 
scheduled  visit  week,  and  time  to  disease  relapse  (i.e.,  loss  of  PASI  75  response)  for  all  PASI  75 
responders who entered the randomised double-blind withdrawal period at week 36. 
7/30 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical Methods 
The  primary  analysis  set  for  all  efficacy  analyses  with  respect  to  the  initial  12-week  double-blind, 
placebo-controlled  period  was  the  intent-to-treat  (ITT)  analysis  set,  which  included  all  randomly 
assigned  subjects  regardless  of  receipt  of  investigational  product.  Analysis  of  the  primary  endpoint 
was done using the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test stratified by age group.   
Subjects who entered the escape arm or who had missing data were considered treatment failures with 
respect  to  their  original  randomised  treatment  group  in  the  primary  analysis.  The  efficacy  data  for 
subjects  who  entered  the  escape  arm  were  changed  to  non-responder  at  the  time  they  entered  the 
escape arm. Data for those subjects from before they entered the escape arm were not changed. For 
subjects who had missing data, their missing data were imputed as non-responder, but their existing 
data were included as observed. The primary analysis was performed using data through week 12 that 
were collected in a blinded fashion and, then, unblinded for analysis while the open-label portion of 
the study was ongoing. 
Data collected after week 12 were analysed separately for the open-label treatment period, incomplete-
responder arm, randomised double-blind withdrawal period, and retreatment period.   
Data  from  the  open-label  treatment  period  and  incomplete-responder  arm  were  analysed  by  the 
original  randomised  treatment  group  for  efficacy  endpoints  and  by  actual  treatment  received  during 
the placebo-controlled period for safety endpoints.   
Data  from  the  randomised  double-blind  withdrawal  and  retreatment  periods  were  analysed  by  the 
second randomisation for efficacy endpoints and by actual treatment received during the withdrawal 
period for safety endpoints.   
All analyses for the open-label treatment period, incomplete-responder arm, and randomised double-
blind withdrawal and retreatment period were conducted using descriptive statistics as in the week-12 
final  analysis,  without  statistical  inferences  between  the  treatment  groups.  Time  to  disease  relapse 
during  the  randomised  double-blind  withdrawal  period  was  assessed  for  treatment  effect  without 
adjusting for multiplicity. 
The  overall  significance  level  for  primary  and  secondary  endpoints  was  controlled  at  0.05  using  a 
sequential  testing  scheme  in  the following  order:  PASI 75  response,  PASI  50  response, clear/almost 
clear status of sPGA, percentage improvement from baseline in CDLQI and PASI 90 response. In this 
sequential testing scheme, statistical testing is stopped once the first non-significant result is observed. 
Because  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  significant,  the  secondary  endpoints  were  tested 
sequentially at a significance level of 0.05. Subjects who entered the escape arm or who had missing 
data were considered treatment failures with respect to their original randomised treatment group. 
The  reported  p-values  for  the  analysis  of  additional  efficacy  endpoints  are  nominal  and  were  not 
adjusted for multiplicity. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  PASI  75  at  week  12  as  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  of  the  study  was 
acceptable to assess short term efficacy, according to the CHMP Guideline on clinical investigation of 
medicinal  products  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  psoriasis  (CHMP/EWP/2454/02  corr).  Other 
endpoints  (PASI  50  and  90  at  week  12,  clear/almost  clear  status of  sPGA,  among  others)  were  also 
considered acceptable by the CHMP. 
The CHMP also considered that the statistical methods for efficacy assessment were acceptable. 
RESULTS 
Forty-two  sites  (30  in  the  United  States  and  12  in  Canada)  randomised  subjects  in  this  study.  The 
study population consisted of 108 male and 103 female subjects aged 4 to 17 years.  
During the 12-week double-blind period: 
At  baseline  of  the  initial  12-week  double-blind  study,  subject  demographics  were  generally  well 
balanced between the etanercept and placebo groups, although a higher percentage of subjects in the 
placebo  group  had  psoriatic  arthritis  at  baseline  than  subjects  in  the  etanercept  group  (13%  vs.  5%, 
respectively). Mean age was 12 year-old, ranges 4-17 and mean weight was 62 kg, which showed that 
the proportion of younger children is lower than the older ones. Most patients were white (74.9%).The 
population  included  met  the  inclusion  criteria  established  in  the  study  regarding  psoriasis,  i.e.  mean 
PASI  was  16  and  mean  duration  was  6  years,  and  it  was  considered  representative  of  the  target 
population. Previously, 30% of patients had received systemic therapy and 48% phototherapies. This 
8/30 
 
 
 
 
was  similar  between  the  treatment  groups.  The  subject  disposition  during  the  study  was  evaluated 
during  the  three  study  periods.  During  the  initial  12-week  comparative  period,  a  high  number  of 
patients of the placebo group (27 out of 105) entered the escape arm due to insufficient response, by 
contrast, only 5 patients of the etanercept group escaped. At the end of this period, all patients entered 
the open-label period of treatment with etanercept, but, during this second period, a substantial number 
of  patients  were  also  considered  incomplete  responders.  Finally,  138  patients  entered  the  12  week 
withdrawal-retreatment period. 
Etanercept provided statistically significant improvements in the PASI 75 to paediatric subjects with 
moderate  to  severe  plaque  psoriasis:  at  week  12,  a  higher  percentage  of  subjects  in  the  etanercept 
group  achieved  a  PASI  75  response  compared  with  the  placebo  group  (57%  vs.  11%,  p  <  0.0001) 
(Figure 2). 
Figure 2: PASI 75 Responses Over Time During the Double-Blind and Open-Label 
Periods 
9/30 
 
 
 
 
 
During the 12-week double-blind period, a significantly higher percentage of subjects in the etanercept 
group achieved a sPGA status of clear/almost clear compared with the placebo group as early as week 
4 (Figure 3).  
Figure 3: Percentage of Subjects With a PGA Status of Clear/Almost Clear Over Time During 
the Double-Blind and Open-Label Periods 
The proportion of subjects who achieved a sPGA status of clear/almost clear was maintained during 
the open-label period in the original etanercept group and continued to improve in the original placebo 
group when they began receiving open-label etanercept. 
The CHMP considered that there was a clear evidence of efficacy of etanercept over placebo in the 
main psoriasis assessment tools PASI 75 and sPGA. Responders achieved benefit by week 12, with a 
10%  increase  in  PASI  75  responders  between  weeks  12  to  24  in  the  original  etanercept  group. 
However no such further improvement in PASI 75 was seen after 12 weeks of treatment in the original 
placebo group (62% vs. 65% at weeks 24 and 36 respectively). No further improvement in sPGA was 
seen  after  12  weeks  of  treatment.  The  CHMP  therefore  considered  that  treatment  should  be 
discontinued in those patients who do not show a response at 12 weeks and treatment course should be 
limited to 24 weeks.  
10/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the 12-week double-blind period, the mean percentage improvement in CDLQI from baseline 
was significantly greater for the etanercept group compared with the placebo group as early as week 2, 
and continued to improve during the open-label period for both the original etanercept group and the 
original placebo group, and was similar by week 36 for subjects in the original placebo group (59.1%) 
compared with the original etanercept group (63.3%). 
This showed a good relative improvement in CDLQI scores compared with baseline and at baseline 
the scores were similar between the two groups. 
The  results  from  the  analysis  of  improvement  in  joint  pain,  growth  analyses,  and  photographs  and 
photo-derived NAPSI scores were largely inconclusive because of the small sample sizes (particularly 
the  placebo  group).  The  results  of  the  patient-reported  outcomes  measures  (Stein  Impact  on  Family 
(completed  by  parents/caregivers),  Paediatric  Quality  of  Life 
(completed  by 
parents/caregivers  for  4-7  year  olds  and  by  subjects  8-17  years  old  themselves),  and  Harter’s  Self-
Perception Profile for Children and Adolescents (2 versions – only used for children over 7 years, the 
7-12 year old had the child version and the 13-18 yr olds completed the adolescent version) were not 
statistically significant.   
Inventory 
The  efficacy  results  in  the  double-blind  period  were  independent  of  age  group,  with  4-11  year  olds 
having a similar response to 12-17 year olds (Table 3 and 4). 
Table  3.  PASI  Response  by  Age  During  Double-blind  Period  (ITT  Subset  With  Treatment 
Failure Imputation) 4 to 11 Years old 
11/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  4.  PASI  Response  by  Age  During  Double-blind  Period  (ITT  Subset  With  Treatment 
Failure Imputation) 12 to 17 Years old 
Analyses of response by disease duration were presented (Tables 5-8).  
Table  5.  PASI  Response  by  Disease  Duration  During  Double-blind  Period  (ITT  Subset  With 
2  Years 
Treatment 
Imputation)  Duration 
psoriasis 
Failure 
of 
to 
0 
- 
12/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  6.  PASI  Response  by  Disease  Duration  During  Double-blind  Period  (ITT  Subset  With 
Treatment Failure Imputation) Duration of psoriasis >2 to 6 Years 
Table  7.  PASI  Response  by  Disease  Duration  During  Double-blind  Period  (ITT  Subset  With 
Treatment Failure Imputation) Duration of psoriasis >6 to 10 Years 
Table  8.  PASI  Response  by  Disease  Duration  During  Double-blind  Period  (ITT  Subset  With 
Treatment Failure Imputation) Duration of psoriasis 10 or More Years 
13/30 
 
 
 
  
 
  
The CHMP noted that although there was no difference in efficacy for those with a history of psoriasis 
between  2-10  years,  there  was  a  lower  response  in  those  with  a  history  of  >10  years.  Those  with  a 
short  history  of  psoriasis  (<2  years)  had  a  high  spontaneous  rate  of  improvement  (placebo  results: 
PASI 75 of 43% at week 12 in those with a history of psoriasis of 0-2 years, versus PASI 75 of 6% in 
those with psoriasis of 6-10 years). The MAH was therefore asked to provide information on length of 
disease  history  in  each  age  group  by  year  (e.g.  4-5  year,  6-7  year)  and  the  responses  including 
spontaneous  remission  in  each  of  these  subgroups.  The  data  presented  by  the  MAH  showed  that 
although the complete spontaneous remissions were rare at the week 12 time point, it was evident that 
a  higher  percentage  of  patients  who  had  a  short  duration  of  disease  ≤  2  years  attained  a  PGA  of 
clear/almost  clear  on  placebo  (32%)  compared  with  those  with  longer  disease  duration.  The  CHMP 
considered this issue as resolved and stated that further data on this finding will be available from the 
ongoing multicentre, open-label safety trial (study 20050111) which is an extension study for subjects 
who  participated  in  study  20030211  conducted  by  the  MAH.  This  study  will  continue  to  collect 
information on efficacy and safety (including immunogenicity, infections and malignancy).  
During the 24-week open-label period: 
After  12  weeks  of  open-label  etanercept,  subjects  who  were  originally  randomised  to  the  placebo 
group  in  the  double-blind period  achieved  a  similar PASI  75  response at  week  24  as  the  etanercept 
group had achieved at week 12 (62% and 57%, respectively: Table 9). 
Table  9.  PASI  Response  Through  Week  36  (ITT  Subset  With  Treatment  Failure 
Imputation)
14/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By week 24 of the open-label period, the clear/almost clear status of the sPGA had been achieved by 
similar  proportions  of  subjects  in  the  original  placebo  group  (56%)  compared  with  the  original 
etanercept group at week 12 (54%). 
Incomplete responders 
The  same  proportion  of  incomplete  responders  (those  who  showed  substantial  worsening  of  their 
disease when in the double-blind period, or those who failed to reach the pre- determined responses of 
PASI 50 at week 24 or PASI 75 at week 36) from the placebo group achieved a PASI 75 response at 
week  24  (24%)  as  did  incomplete  responders  from  the  original  etanercept  group  at  week  12  (20%) 
(Table 10). 
Table 10. PASI Response Through Week 48 for Subjects who Entered the Incomplete-responder 
Arm (Treatment Failure Imputation) 
15/30 
 
 
 
 
A separate for sPGA clear/almost clear responses for subjects who entered the incomplete-responder 
arm (with treatment failure imputation for missing data) was also provided. 
The  CHMP  noted  that  the  analysis  of  subjects  who  entered  the  incomplete  responder  arm  showed 
lower  responses  to  treatment  than  responders.  This  may  be  because  they  were  inherently  less 
responsive to etanercept or were undergoing a flare in their disease which coincided with the onset of 
the study. The former possibility may be related to lower serum etanercept levels or serum TNF levels 
in  this  group  compared  with  responders.  The  CHMP  considered  that  it  would  be  useful  to  identify 
probable  non-responders  when  considering  treatment  with  etanercept,  and  therefore  requested  the 
MAH  to  provide,  for  non-responders,  information  comparing  the  serum  TNF  levels  and  serum 
etanercept levels in these cases compared with those subjects who had a good initial response to active 
treatment.  The  data  provided  by  the  MAH  showed  that  non-responders  achieve  similar  serum 
etanercept concentrations to responders, demonstrating that a lack of response in some patients is not 
secondary to lower serum levels of etanercept. The CHMP considered the issue as resolved. 
The  CHMP  also  requested  the  MAH  to  provide  a  further  analysis  of  the  incomplete  responders  in 
terms of age, length of disease, serum TNF levels and serum etanercept levels. The data provided by 
the  MAH  showed  that  no  difference  between  the  group  who  were  incomplete  responders  and  the 
group  as  a  whole  were  found  for  any  of  the  indices  measured.  The  CHMP  considered  the  issue  as 
resolved. 
Efficacy results from randomised withdrawal-retreatment period: 
At week 36, subjects who achieved a PASI 75 were considered to be responders to therapy (138 out of 
the initial 211) and were randomly reassigned to placebo or etanercept QW in a double-blind manner 
for the 12-week withdrawal-retreatment period of the study to evaluate disease relapse and durability 
of response.   
All subjects were to be followed every 4 weeks and assessed for disease relapse. Relapse was defined 
as  a  loss  of  PASI  75  response  or  < 75%  decrease  (i.e.  improvement)  in  PASI  score  compared  with 
baseline.  Upon  relapse,  subjects  were  to  enter  open-label  retreatment  with  etanercept  QW  through 
week 48. 
During the withdrawal period, no subject had rebound of their disease, defined as a post-baseline PASI 
score that was > 125% of baseline PASI within 3 months of treatment discontinuation. 
Overall, less than 50% of subjects in each group lost their PASI 75 response during the withdrawal 
period.  
The placebo group lost the PASI 75 response more rapidly than did the etanercept group during the 
withdrawal period. After treatment withdrawal, 75% of subjects in the placebo group versus 81% in 
the etanercept group retained their PASI 75 response at week 40 (Table 11).   
Time  to  Loss  PASI  75  Response  for  PASI  75  Responders  Who  Entered  Randomised  Withdrawal 
Period 
As  a  consequence,  by  week  48,  more  subjects  randomly  reassigned to  placebo (29  of  69,  42%) had 
entered the retreatment period than had subjects randomly reassigned to etanercept (13 of 69, 19%).  
16/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  11.  PASI  Response  During  Randomised  Withdrawal  Period  (All  Subjects  Who  Were 
Randomised at Week 36 – Observed Cases) 
Similar maintenance of response for sPGA status of clear/almost clear, and percentage improvement 
from baseline in the CDLQI total score were observed.  
The CHMP noted that long-term responders were favoured by the trial design in that the only subjects 
allowed  to  remain  in  the  placebo  arm  during  the  withdrawal  retreatment  period  were  those  who 
maintained  their  PASI  75  response.  Excluding  subjects  from  the  placebo  group  who  entered 
retreatment  with  etanercept,  34  patients  out  of  the  69  subjects  originally  randomised  for  placebo 
treatment remained on placebo and retained PASI 75 at week 48. Therefore 49% of subjects retained a 
PASI  75  for  12  weeks  after  cessation  of  etanercept  treatment.  Eighty-five  (85)%  of  those  who 
remained on etanercept retained their PASI 75 at week 48. This demonstrated effective maintenance of 
response in 49% responders. An alternative possibility is that of disease remission in this group. The 
CHMP  therefore  asked  the  MAH  to  perform  a  re-analysis  of  the  subjects  who  relapsed  in  the 
withdrawal-retreatment period of the trial and to identify if they were any differences in this sub-group 
in terms of demographics and baseline disease characteristics compared with those who retained their 
PASI 75. The MAH was asked to provide PASI 75 and sPGA scores. The data provided by the MAH 
showed that there were no baseline disease characteristics or demographic differences between those 
who  relapsed  and  those  who  maintained  their  response  in  the  withdrawal-retreatment  period.  The 
PASI  75  and  sPGA  score  data  presented  were  not  helpful  in  view  of  the  small  numbers  treated  for 
more than 56 days. The CHMP concluded that those who relapse cannot be predicted on the basis of 
demographics of baseline disease characteristics. The post hoc analysis showing higher efficacy with 
short-term  re-treatment  compared  to  longer  retreatment  is  difficult  to  explain  and  is  likely  to  be  a 
spurious result in view of the small number of subjects in these groups. The CHMP considered this 
issue as solved and noted that further information on efficacy of long-term treatment, and efficacy and 
safety of re-treatment will become available from the proposed trial 20050111. 
The  CHMP  also  requested  the  MAH  to  provide  information  on  the  ages  and  length  of  history  of 
psoriasis  in  the  group  who  maintained  their  response  and  those  who  relapsed  for  12  weeks  after 
cessation of etanercept treatment. The MAH presented a comparison of baseline mean age and mean 
psoriasis disease duration for subjects who had disease relapse versus the subjects who did not have 
disease relapse during the withdrawal-retreatment period and concluded that the mean age and disease 
duration do not appear to be related to disease relapse status. Of subjects who had disease relapse and 
who entered the retreatment period from the placebo group, 27% had regained a PASI 75 response by 
week 44 and 36% had regained a PASI 75 response by week 48, after receiving open-label etanercept 
for 4 to 8 weeks, respectively (Table 12). 
17/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  12.  PASI  Response  During  Retreatment  Period  (All  Subjects  Who  Received  ≥1  Dose  of 
Retreatment After Disease Relapse – Observed Cases) 
These results were similar to those observed after subjects had received the initial treatment during the 
double-blind period: at week 4 of the double-blind period, 9% of subjects in the etanercept group had 
achieved a PASI 75 response, and by week 8, 44% of subjects had achieved a PASI 75 response.   
No subjects had a rebound of their disease, as defined by the National Psoriasis Foundation as a PASI 
score that is > 125% of the baseline PASI score within 3 months after treatment withdrawal. 
The CHMP considered that the randomised withdrawal-retreatment period, conducted in responders to 
etanercept, was useful to assess the duration of treatment effect and adequacy of retreatment. Overall, 
less than 50% of subjects in each group lost their PASI 75 response during the withdrawal period. As 
expected, the placebo group lost the PASI 75 response more rapidly than did the etanercept group, as 
after  4  weeks  (week  40),  75%  and  81%  of  patients,  respectively,  retained  the  response.  It  was  also 
informative  that,  after  12  weeks  (week  48),  more  subjects  reassigned  to  placebo  had  entered  the 
retreatment period than had subjects randomly reassigned to etanercept (42% vs. 19%) and that they 
were able to regain a PASI 75 response in a similar proportion to that found during the initial double-
blind period. From this data it can be concluded that, although the results of part I and II of the study 
showed  that  the  treatment  with  etanercept  during  36  week  was  useful  to  control  the  disease  in  a 
substantial  proportion  of  patients,  in  many  of  the  responders,  this  treatment  period  was  insufficient; 
after cessation of etanercept administration, 42% of patients had to enter the retreatment period. The 
CHMP  therefore  asked  the  MAH  to  provide  results  (efficacy  and  safety)  obtained  in  study  patients 
during the follow-up after 48 weeks. The MAH provided data on between 17 and 22 children for PASI 
results, serum etanercept levels, anti-etanercept antibody status and vital sign measurements. Ten out 
of twenty-one (10/21) subjects retained their PASI 75 at the follow-up visit. The CHMP considered 
that the relevance of these findings was limited in view of the small sample size. The data on serum 
etanercept levels was not helpful because of the small numbers of subjects comprising largely of those 
who had completed the end of study visit early in the study. The CHMP considered, as many subjects 
are  enrolled  into  the long-term  safety  trial,  that  more  complete  data  will  become  available  from  the 
follow on study 20050111. 
In addition the group of patients who entered the third phase of the study were those who had shown a 
good  response  to  initial  treatment.  Because  of  the  potential  risks  of  repeated  immunosuppression  in 
children (effects on developing immune system and growth) and the lack of long-term safety data the 
optimal duration  of therapy  and  frequency  of  retreatment  needed to  be  addressed  by  the MAH. The 
identification of factors associated with a rapid loss of response would prevent frequent re-treatment in 
those least likely to respond. The data provided (analysis to ascertain whether any predictive factors 
existed at baseline to predict those subjects who had relapse in disease following cessation of active 
treatment)  did  not  reveal  any  predictive  indictors  for  clinicians  to  determine  which  patients  may 
experience a more rapid loss of response. 
18/30 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The clinical study submitted to support a paediatric plaque psoriasis indication for etanercept included 
a  total  of  211  children  aged  4  to  17  years-old  with  moderate  to  severe  plaque  psoriasis  who  were 
poorly  controlled  with  topical  psoriasis  therapy  or  had  received  phototherapy  or  systemic  therapy. 
Etanercept  at  a  dosage  of  0.8  mg/kg  QW  was  efficacious  in  paediatric  subjects  with  moderate  to 
severe  plaque  psoriasis.  At  week  12  of  the  double-blind  period,  significantly  more  subjects  in  the 
etanercept  group  had  positive  efficacy  responses  compared  with  those  in  the  placebo  group,  as 
assessed by PASI 75, sPGA and CDLQI.  During the open-label period, subjects originally from the 
placebo group had responses in efficacy measures at week 24 (after 12 weeks of etanercept treatment) 
that were similar to the original etanercept group at week 12 of the double-blind period. Some quality 
of  life  assessments  (patient-reported  outcomes  measures  (Stein  Impact  on  Family  (completed  by 
parents/caregivers), Paediatric Quality of Life Inventory (completed by parents/caregivers for 4-7 year 
olds and by subjects 8-17 years old themselves), and Harter’s Self-Perception Profile for Children and 
Adolescents (2 versions – only used for children over 7 years, the 7-12 year old had the child version 
and  the  13-18  yr  olds  completed  the  adolescent  version)  did  not  yield  major  differences  between 
placebo  and  etanercept  groups.  During  the  withdrawal  period,  more  subjects  who  were  randomly 
reassigned  to  the  placebo  group  had  disease  relapse  (loss  of  PASI  75  response)  compared  with 
subjects  who  were  randomly  assigned  to  etanercept  0.8  mg/kg  QW.  Subjects  who  had  relapsed  and 
entered the retreatment  arm  showed  improvement  in  their  PASI  responses  but this  was  less that  the 
original  responders  and  took  longer  to  become  evident.  No  subjects  had  a  rebound  of  their  disease. 
Thus,  the  data  suggest  that  disruption  of  etanercept  therapy  does  not  lead  to  a  rebound  of  disease 
within 12 weeks. From the results obtained in this 3-period study, it can be concluded that etanercept 
at  a  dosage  of  0.8  mg/kg  QW  has  shown  short-term  efficacy,  compared  with  placebo,  in  the  study 
population.  This  is  consistent  with  its  mechanism  of  action  (immunosuppressant)  and  the  previous 
findings in adult population with chronic plaque psoriasis. Additionally, the treatment effect duration 
(including withdrawal and retreatment) was investigated in this study, but more data are required to 
reach solid conclusions. Psoriasis is a chronic relapsing disease and the possibility of repeated courses 
in subjects who relapse quickly is a concern since there is limited safety data available in this group.  
As only a total of 19 children under the age of 8 years were included in study 20030211, the CHMP 
was of the opinion that Enbrel’s indicated age group should be from 8-17 years. The indicated group 
should be restricted to chronic severe plaque psoriasis, until further safety data is available. Where the 
standard practice is to administer systemic therapy or phototherapy with a well known safety profile to 
such cases, Enbrel should be reserved for those who have failed to respond to systemic therapies or 
phototherapies. The limitation of prescription of etanercept in this indication to physicians experienced 
in the treatment of plaque psoriasis will ensure that only those with severe plaque psoriasis for whom 
limited options are available will be given etanercept.  
3. 
Clinical safety  
Patient exposure 
Two hundred and eleven (211) subjects received at least 1 dose of test article (106 received etanercept 
0.8 mg/kg QW and 105 received placebo) in the 12-week double-blind period. A total of 208 subjects 
entered the 24-week open-label period and received etanercept 0.8 mg/kg QW. 138 subjects completed 
the open-label period and were randomly reassigned in the 12-week withdrawal-retreatment period.  
The mean exposure to etanercept during the 12-week double-blind period was 21.67 doses over 77.20 
days    for  the  etanercept  treatment  group.  The  mean  exposure  to  etanercept  during  the  open-label 
period  was  47.20  doses  over  175.05  days  for  the  original  etanercept  group  and  48.87  doses  over 
182.03  days  for  the  original  placebo  group.  Because  etanercept  was  administered  QW  using  1  or  2 
vials of etanercept at a concentration of 25 mg/mL, 1 dose is counted as an injection from 1 vial in the 
calculation of mean doses above. 
The overall exposure to etanercept through 48 weeks was 153.6 subject-years. 
No  significant  change  in  body  measurements  (height,  weight  BMI)  was  evident  in  either  age  group 
over the initial 12 week double-blind placebo controlled part of the study. 
19/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Over the 48 week period an increase in the weight and BMI percentiles were noted in the group as a 
whole and a slight drop was noted in the height percentiles (Table 13). 
Table  13.  Weight  Percentiles/Body  Mass  Index  (BMI)/  Height/  Height  Standard  Deviation 
Scores (SDS) by Visit  
Weight 
Percentiles by 
Visit 
Body Mass Index 
(BMI) 
Percentiles by 
Visit 
Height 
Percentiles by 
Visit 
Height Standard 
Deviation Scores 
(SDS) by Visit 
Etanercept 0.8 mg/kg QW (N=210) 
Baseline 
n 
Mean 
SD 
SE 
Median 
Min 
Max 
Week 48 
n 
Mean 
SD 
SE 
Median 
Min 
Max 
210 
74.88 
27.46 
1.89 
86.57 
0.4 
100.0 
189 
75.59 
26.77 
1.95 
86.66 
4.2 
100.0 
209 
74.96 
28.03 
1.94 
87.39 
2.2 
100.0 
188 
81.31 
22.61 
1.65 
92.34 
11.0 
100.0 
209 
57.21 
29.53 
2.04 
60.82 
0.3 
99.4 
188 
56.07 
30.23 
2.20 
58.67 
0.6 
99.7 
209 
37.10 
162.44 
11.24 
36.19 
-510.4 
406.8 
188 
32.42 
166.47 
12.14 
35.99 
-452.3 
439.3 
N= Number of subjects who received at least 1 dose of Etanercept 0.8 mg/kg QW 
The CHMP commented that the height percentile showed a drop from baseline at week 48. The height 
SDS table was found difficult to interpret. The data provided by the MAH (height SDS in the format 
of  age  stratified  (4-11  years,  and  12-17  years)  height  SDS  scores  at  baseline  and  at  48  weeks 
demonstrated  that  that  there  were  no  detectable  adverse  effects  on  growth,  with  the  limited  data 
available  using  the  two  age  groups,  4-11  years  and  12-17  years.  To  obtain  an  accurate  estimate  of 
growth  in  each  sub-group,  growth  would  need  to  be  compared  with  age  and  sex-  matched  controls 
over a period of a year, in order to get a good estimate of growth rate for a particular group. As they 
were  a  very  small  number  of  children  under  the  age  of  8  years,  it  was  very  difficult  to  exclude  an 
adverse effect on growth within this younger population. Concerns remained about the lack of data in 
children  under  the  age  of  8  in  this  study.  As  the  ongoing  safety  study  includes  only  those  who 
completed study 20030211, this will not constitute enough safety data for this group. The marketing 
authorisation  was  therefore  restricted  to  children  aged  8-17  and  those  under  the  age  of  8  years  will 
need to have more data collected before authorisation can be granted for this younger age group. 
During the initial 12-week double-blind period, the proportions of subjects reporting adverse events or 
infections  were  generally  similar  between  the  etanercept  group  (64.2%)  and  the  placebo  (59.0%) 
group (Table 14). There were no serious adverse events (SAEs). 
20/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  14.  Summary  of  Subject  Incidence  of  Selected  Adverse  Events  During  Double-blind 
Period 
Table  15.  Subject  Incidence  of  Adverse  Events  ≥5%  by  Preferred  Term  in  Descending 
Frequency During Double-blind Period 
21/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 16. Injection Site Reactions by Preferred Term in Descending Frequency During Double-
blind Period 
The CHMP commented that compared to the study of etanercept in juvenile rheumatoid arthritis the 
side effects profile in this double-blind period of the study was similar, except that no SAEs occurred 
in study 20030211 during the first 12 weeks and the incidence of injection site reactions (ISRs), upper 
respiratory  tract  infections (URTIs),  gastrointestinal (GI)  infections  and  headache  was  lower than  in 
the study with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. 
Long-term  safety  analyses  through  week  48  were  based  on  exposure-adjusted  rates,  as  all  subjects 
received  etanercept  during  the  open  label  period  of  the  study.  In  this  analysis,  treatment  groups 
represented  the  actual  treatment  received  at  the  time  of  the  event.  The  overall  rate  of  AEs  through 
week 48 associated with etanercept treatment was 554.8 events per 100 subject-years versus a rate of 
685.3 events per 100 subject-years associated with placebo treatment.   
Although  times  of  exposure  to  etanercept  (E =  153.6  subject-years)  and  placebo  (E  =  30.1  subject-
years)  were  very  different,  most  events  in  the  etanercept  group  occurred  at  a  similar  or  lower 
exposure-adjusted rate than in the placebo group. Three (3) exceptions to this included streptococcal 
pharyngitis, gastroenteritis, and arthralgia, which occurred at exposure-adjusted rates of 14.3, 9.8, and 
8.5  events  per  100 subject-years,  respectively,  in  the  etanercept  group  compared  with  3.3,  0,  and  0 
events per 100 subject-years, respectively, in the placebo group. 
The most frequently reported adverse events during the study were all mild to moderate in severity, 
except for 1 case of gastroenteritis, which was reported as severe (also reported as SAE). 
22/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  17.  All  Events  Through  Week  48  Exposure-adjusted  Rates  by  Preferred  Term  in 
Descending  Frequency  (Treatment  Groups  Represent  Actual  Treatment  Received  at  Time  of 
Event 
During  the  randomised  withdrawal  period,  52.9%  of  subjects  receiving  etanercept  and  46.4%  of 
subjects  receiving  placebo  reported  ≥1  adverse  event  or  infection.  The  most  frequently  reported 
adverse  events  included  nasopharyngitis  (10.3%  etanercept  vs.  2.9%  placebo)  and  headache  (8.8% 
etanercept vs. 2.9% placebo).  
The CHMP noted that subject incidence of adverse events must be interpreted with caution during the 
retreatment  period  because  of  the  small  sample  size.  The  most  frequently  reported  adverse  events 
reported  during  this  period  were  upper  respiratory  tract  infection  (25.0%  etanercept  vs.  10.0% 
placebo) and sinusitis (8.3% etanercept vs. 6.7% placebo). 
3.1 Safety-Related Discontinuations 
Six subjects were withdrawn from the study because of an adverse event or infection. One subject in 
the  etanercept  group  was  withdrawn  during  the  double-blind  period  because  of  bronchospasm.  Five 
subjects  were  withdrawn  during  the  open-label  period  because  of  psoriasis  progression,  atopic 
dermatitis,  muscle  spasms,  skin  infection,  and  lobar  pneumonia  (the  case  of  pneumonia  was 
considered a serious infection)  
The  2  subjects  who  withdrew  during  the  open-label  period  because  of  infections  were  from  the 
original etanercept group, and the other 3 subjects were from the original placebo group. No subjects 
were withdrawn during the randomised withdrawal or retreatment periods. 
It  was  noted  that  it  was  of  interest  that  those  who  withdrew  because  of  infection  had  a  higher 
cumulative  dose  of  etanercept  than  those  who  withdrew  for  other  reasons.  Data  presenting  the 
incidence  of  infection  and  all  other  AEs  against  the  cumulative  dosage  of  etanercept  received  were 
provided showing that there was no evidence over the 48 week period of an increase in rate of non-
serious AEs. No SAEs were seen in the 1-85 day exposure period and the 4 SAEs in the trial occurred 
after that time.  
3.2 Serious Adverse Events 
No  non-infectious  SAEs  or  serious  infections  occurred  during  the  12-week  double-blind  period  or 
during the randomised withdrawal or retreatment periods of the study. Four SAEs were reported in 3 
subjects during the open-label period. 
23/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. A 14-year-old female subject from the original etanercept group developed an ovarian mass, which 
was later determined to be benign. The right ovary and mass were surgically removed and pathology 
revealed fibrous tissue with marked chronic inflammation.  
2. A 7-year-old female subject from the original etanercept group with a history of asthma developed 
pneumonia  and  was  withdrawn  from  the  study  because  of  the  event;  the  subject  recovered  without 
sequelae.  
3.  An  8-year-old  female  subject  from  the  original  placebo  group  developed  gastroenteritis  and 
dehydration  (2  SAEs)  while  receiving  etanercept  in  the  incomplete-responder  arm.  This  subject’s 
symptoms  of  nausea,  vomiting,  diarrhoea,  and  abdominal  pain  developed  2  weeks  after  a 
tonsillectomy, and resulted in hospitalisation for dehydration and gastroenteritis.  
The SAEs of ovarian mass, gastroenteritis, and dehydration were considered not related to test article, 
and the SAE of pneumonia was considered related. 
The CHMP concluded that it was reasonable to expect that the gastroenteritis was related to the test 
article as gastroenteritis is a common side effect of etanercept therapy in children 
Deaths 
No deaths occurred during the study. 
Malignancies 
No malignancies were reported during the study. 
Clinically Important Laboratory Test Results 
Transient elevated haemoglobin concentrations were reported: all occurred in adolescent boys (all 15 
years old) and were within the normal range for adult men. None of the laboratory abnormalities were 
associated with any clinical reports of SAEs.  
Safety in special populations 
No studies have been conducted in special populations in the paediatric psoriasis group. 
Anti-nuclear antibodies 
Table 18. Summary of Anti-Nuclear Antibody (ANA) Titre Status 
At baseline, the background rate for ANA was 6.6-11.4%. Those in the original placebo group at week 
48 did receive etanercept in the open label period of the study. Of note is that the data presented in 
table 23 gives percentages calculated on the total number in each group rather than the total number of 
subjects with test results at each time point. Calculations of the percentage positive at week 48 in the 
etanercept group would give a result of 5/52 (9.6%). Data were also provided on the titre of ANA at 
baseline and 48 weeks, the ages of those positive for ANA, the AE profile and whether any further 
tests were performed in ANA positive cases (such as ENA and dsDNA testing). These data showed 
that there were only small number of subjects tested for ANA and no clear correlation with age or AE 
profile emerged from the limited data set.  
24/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anti-etanercept antibodies 
No analysis of the 20 cases with anti-etanercept antibodies was performed. Data assessing whether the 
presence  of  anti-etanercept  antibodies  had  any  effects  on  efficacy  or  safety  were  provided  showing 
that there were no statistically significant differences in efficacy of AE profile between subjects who 
developed  antibodies  to  etanercept  and  those  who  did  not  at  week  12.  At  week  48  the  efficacy 
responses  were  lower  in  the  antibody  positive  group  but  this  was  not  statistically  significant.  There 
were no significant differences between the two groups in terms of efficacy or AE profile.  
Of the 211 subjects who were randomly assigned to the study, 208 had predose and postdose serum 
samples available for testing for antibodies to etanercept. Of these 208 subjects, 20 (9.6%) had at least 
1 sample that was positive for anti-etanercept antibodies at ≥ 1 time point. Ten (10) of the 208 subjects 
(4.8%) had samples that were positive for anti-etanercept antibodies at week 48 or at the end-of-study 
time point. 
All samples were negative for neutralising anti-etanercept antibodies. 
Table 19. Summary of Anti-Etanercept Antibodies 
ANA and anti-etanercept antibody results on the cases with arthralgia were provided and clarified that 
3/11  (27%)  of  cases  with  arthralgia  and  related  AEs  were  positive  for  ANA  and/or  anti-etanercept 
antibodies. Although there was limited data no association between the presence of these antibodies 
and the development of arthralgia was evident.  
Data on those with anti-nuclear antibodies in terms of demographics, baseline disease characteristics, 
PASI  75,  sPGA  scores,  adverse  events  including  arthralgia  as  a  function  of  total  cumulative  dose 
received were also provided showing that the demographic and baseline disease characteristics of the 
ANA-positive subjects were comparable to those of the ANA-negative subjects and that the efficacy 
was  similar  between  these  2  groups  and  no  correlation  between  arthralgia  and  ANA  positivity  was 
found.  
3.3 Risk management plan 
In the initial application no revision of the etanercept risk management plan ( RMP) was submitted. As 
part  of  the  etanercept  RMP,  two  paediatric  registries  were  set  up  (UK  and  Germany)  in  order  to 
evaluate the safety profile of etanercept in children and adolescents with juvenile idiopathic arthritis. 
However,  because  psoriasis  may  need  multiple  courses  of  treatment,  the  MAH  was  requested  to 
submit a RMP addressing this specific paediatric population as well as to consider setting up a registry 
for paediatric psoriasis.  
A RMP was therefore submitted which addressed only the plaque psoriasis indication for this product. 
A  summary  of  the  RMP  (distinguishing  between  identified  risks,  potential  risks  and  missing 
information and providing clear indication as to what additional PV activities are planned) is included 
in the below table. 
25/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26/30 
 
 
In  its  initial  RMP,  the  MAH  mentioned  that  the  British  Association  of  Dermatologists  Biological 
Interventions Register (BADBIR) was recently established with the primary purpose of evaluating the 
long-term  safety  of  biological  agents  used  to  treat  psoriasis.  It  is  a  prospective  longitudinal  cohort 
study consisting of two cohorts, psoriasis patients treated with biological interventions and a control 
group  (presumably  with  similar  disease  characteristics)  exposed  only  to  non-biological  systemic 
therapies. The primary objective of BADBIR is active surveillance for potential adverse events, which 
have  not  been  detected  in  the  relatively  short-term  clinical  trials,  and  those  which  are  perceived  as 
clinically  important.  Safety  outcomes  of  interest  include  malignancy,  cardiovascular  events, 
demyelinating  disease,  serious  infection,  and  tuberculosis.  The  register  aims  to  recruit  all  patients 
receiving  all  approved  biologic  agents,  including  etanercept,  until  the  required  cohort  size  has  been 
attained.  Currently,  the investigators  have  approval for  the inclusion  of adult  psoriasis  patients. The 
MAH  has  been  in  communication  with  the  BADBIR  investigators  regarding  the  possibility  of 
including pediatric psoriasis patients who are treated with etanercept in the register.  
3.4 Discussion on clinical safety 
During the clinical study submitted to support this variation, there were no unexpected safety findings 
associated with etanercept therapy in paediatric plaque psoriasis. The most frequently reported adverse 
reactions were upper respiratory tract infections, gastrointestinal infections and injection site reactions.  
27/30 
 
 
 
 
 
The AE profiles for the retreatment group as a function of length of treatment showed that there were 
no baseline disease characteristics or demographic differences between those who relapsed and those 
who maintained their response in the withdrawal-retreatment period. The overall AE rate was higher 
in  those  who  received  etanercept  in  the  withdrawal  phase  (69%  vs.  31%)  compared  with  those 
receiving placebo. The data showed that infection and infestation rates were lower in those on placebo 
(26.67%)  compared  with  those  on  etanercept  (66.67%).  Infections  and  infestations  were  higher  in 
those treated for 29-56 days. The CHMP concluded that those who relapse cannot be predicted on the 
basis of demographics of baseline disease characteristics.  
Because  of  the  potential  risks  of  repeated  immunosuppressive  therapy  in  children  (effects  on 
developing  immune  system,  immunogenicity  and  growth)  and  the  lack  of  long-term  safety  data,  the 
CHMP requested the MAH to discuss the optimal duration of therapy and frequency of retreatment. 
The  identification  of  factors  associated  with  a  rapid  loss  of  response  would  prevent  frequent  re-
treatment in this group and the MAH was also asked to comment on this. 
Similarity  in  PK,  safety,  and  efficacy  in  adult  and  paediatric  subjects  with  psoriasis  was  noted. 
Treatment  duration  of  “up  to  24  weeks”  recommended  for  the  adult  population  can  therefore  be 
recommended in the paediatric population. In the absence of a response to treatment after 12 weeks, it 
is recommended that etanercept therapy be discontinued for paediatric patients (in line with the adult 
patients recommendation). If retreatment is clinically indicated, the same regimen should be employed 
with  regard  to  dose  and  duration.  However,  further  data  will  be  provided  from  the  open-label 
extension study 20050111.This long-term safety trial (20050111) has recruited from subjects in study 
20030211  and  will  therefore  not  provide  sufficient  safety  data  in  younger  children.  The  MAH 
acknowledged that only 17 subjects under the age of 8 years were enrolled in study 20050111 from 
study 20030211 and therefore, safety data collected during the study will be insufficient to establish a 
safety  profile  in  this  young  psoriasis  population.  Psoriasis  affects  approximately  2%  of  the  world’s 
population.  The  prevalence  of  psoriasis  in  children  has  been  estimated  at  0.55%  to  1.4%,  the  large 
majority of which is comprised of mild disease. Consequently, there are significant challenges with the 
recruitment  of  children  with  severe  psoriasis  aged  4  through  7  years.  Due  to  the  small  number  of 
patients  with  psoriasis  under  8  years  of  age,  the  MAH  was  of  the  opinion  that  it  is  not  feasible  to 
conduct  a  robust,  controlled  clinical  trial  in  this  population,  and  proposed  to  conduct  a  single-arm, 
open label, long-term, prospective, observational cohort study. An outline protocol for this study has 
been  submitted.  The  planned  study  is  a  single-arm  open-label  long-term  prospective  observational 
study, aiming to recruit at least 100 European paediatric psoriasis patients and as many as 200, across 
5 countries over the first 3 years of the study. Patients will be followed up every three months for the 
first 2 years and every six months for years 3 through to 5. The objectives of this study are to describe 
the risk of serious infection associated with current or recent treatment with etanercept in paediatric 
psoriasis; to describe the long-term risk of malignancy in paediatric psoriasis patients who have ever 
received  etanercept;  to  identify  any  new,  potentially  unrecognized  ADRs  by  collecting  SAE  data  in 
this population; and to assess effectiveness by describing patterns of initial treatment with etanercept, 
premature  discontinuation,  and  subsequent  treatment  with  systemic  therapies  including  re-treatment 
with etanercept. 
Analyses of infections, SAEs, and treatment patterns will be descriptive. Should any patient develop 
cancer  during  follow-up,  standardized  incidence  ratios  (SIRs)  will  be  calculated  for  malignancies, 
adjusted for age and gender, using geographically appropriate population-based reference rates. 
The  MAH  does  not  plan  to  request  blood  samples  to  be  taken  from  children  during  the  study  for 
immunogenicity  testing.  The  anti-etanercept  assay  developed  for  use  in  clinical  trials  is  not 
commercially  available,  and  it  cannot  be  used  to  test  ad  hoc  blood  samples  since  the  assay 
methodology  requires  a  baseline  sample  to  determine  whether  a  post-exposure  sample  meets  the 
criteria for the presence of anti-etanercept antibodies. Thus, even if testing for antibodies were to be 
limited  to  patients  only  where  indicated,  all  patients  would  need  to  provide  a  sample  at  baseline. 
Inclusion  of  phlebotomy  for  study  participation  would  likely  dissuade  parents  and  physician  from 
patient  enrolment  in  the  study  (since  the  medicinal  product  would  otherwise  be  readily  available), 
thereby diminishing the already limited patient population for the study. 
The CHMP considered the outline protocol as appropriate.  
28/30 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP also considered that whilst it is regrettable that blood samples cannot be collected from 
patients  for  immunogenicity  testing,  the  MAH’s  argument  that  this  will  not  be  feasible  within  this 
study is accepted. Also immunogenicity data is to be collected in paediatric psoriasis patients in study 
2005011, the long term trial extension. 
4. 
Overall conclusion and benefit risk assessment 
The  evidence  presented  showed  that  etanercept  is  an  effective  short-term  treatment  for  paediatric 
patients with severe plaque psoriasis and who respond within 12 weeks of treatment compared with 
placebo. Although the side effect profile demonstrates an increased risk of infection, other rarer side 
effects will only become evident with prolonged pharmacovigilance in this patient group, which will 
be provided by the MAH. 
In view of the lack of long-term safety data in patients with paediatric psoriasis, the  CHMP was of  
the  opinion  that  only  those  with  severe  plaque  psoriasis  who  are  inadequately  controlled  by  or  are 
intolerant to systemic therapies or phototherapies should constitute the indicated group. 
The  CHMP  was  of  the  opinion that the breakdown  of  data  by  age  highlighted a  lack  of insufficient 
data  in  the  younger  age  group  and  was  considered  insufficient.  The  CHMP  therefore  recommended 
that  until  further  data  is  available  in  younger  children,  the  license  for  paediatric  plaque  psoriasis 
should  be  restricted  to  children  over  the  age  of  8  years  and  to  amend  section  4.1  of  the  SPC 
accordingly.  The  CHMP  therefore  considers  that  the  etanercept  indication  in  treatment  of  severe 
plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents should be limited to children over the age of 8 years. 
The  CHMP  also  pointed  out  that  the  long-term  safety  trial  has  recruited  from  subjects  in  study 
20030211  and  will  therefore  not  provide  sufficient  safety  data  in  younger  children.  The  lack  of 
sufficient data on younger children and the need for longer term efficacy and safety data in paediatric 
plaque psoriasis is to be addressed with an open label observational study with at least 100 patients 
from 4-17 years, to assess the safety and efficacy in paediatric plaque psoriasis. This study will collect 
data  on efficacy,  safety  – particularly  in  relation to  infection,  malignancy  and  loss  of efficacy  -  and 
will  also  collect  information  on  dose  length  and  frequency  of  courses.  The  aim  to  collect 
immunogenicity  in  such  a  long-term  study  cannot  be  fulfilled  due  to  the  need  for  baseline  blood 
samples for all entrants to the study – which is likely to reduce the number of entrants as the majority 
of these children and adolescents (from the age of 8 years) could be treated without the need for extra 
blood tests.  Long-term data on immunogenicity will be available from the open-label long term safety 
trial  (study  20050111)  and  the  results  will  be  submitted  within  6  months  of  completion  and  will 
provide long-term safety and immunogenicity data on the subjects from study 20050111. This study 
aims  to  recruit  at  least  100  European  paediatric  psoriasis  patients  (from  the  age  of  4  years)  and  as 
many as 200, across 5 countries over the first 3 years of the study. 
The  other  concern  is that  in  a  relapsing  remitting  disease  such  as  plaque  psoriasis the  possibility  of 
multiple serial courses being administered before further long-term safety data is available arises. In 
the  absence  of  long-term  safety  and  growth  data  maximum  treatment  duration  should  follow  the 
current SPC for adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis and be limited to 24 weeks.   
By  restricting  the  indication  to  severe  disease  in  those  who  are  inadequately  controlled  by,  or  are 
intolerant to, other systemic therapies or phototherapies and by restricting the age group to those over 
8 years, the benefit/risk balance for etanercept in paediatric plaque psoriasis was considered positive.  
II.  CHANGES TO THE PRODUCT INFORMATION 
Section 4.1 of the SPC was updated as follows: 
 “Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of chronic severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents from the age of 8 years who 
are inadequately controlled by, or are intolerant to, other systemic therapies or phototherapies”. The 
PL was updated accordingly. 
29/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 4.2 was updated to limit the prescription of Enbrel in this indication to physicians experienced 
in the treatment of plaque psoriasis which will ensure that only those with severe plaque psoriasis for 
whom limited options are available will be given Enbrel. 
This  section  also  states  that  treatment  should  be  discontinued  in  those  patients  who  do  not  show  a 
response  at  12  weeks  and  treatment  course  should  be  limited  to  24  weeks.  The  PL  was  updated 
accordingly. 
Whilst  accepting  the  restriction  to  the  age  range  for  the  indication,  section  4.8  of  the  SPC  reflects 
whole age range of study 20030211 and was updated as follows: 
“Undesirable effects in paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
 In a 48-week study in 211 children aged 4 to 17 years with paediatric plaque psoriasis, the adverse 
events reported were similar to those seen in previous studies in adults with plaque psoriasis.” 
At the CHMP’s request, section 5.1 of the SPC includes information about the randomised withdrawal 
period. 
Annex  II  was  updated  to  include  the  new  version  of  the  RMP  approved  with  this  indication  and  to 
reflect the recommendation from the CHMP regarding future RMP submissions. 
The MAH has also taken the opportunity to relocate one sentence in section 7 of the Package Leaflet 
(Instructions  for  Preparing  and  Giving  an  Injection  of  Enbrel)  for  the  paediatric  pack.    In  the 
subsection  on  “Adding  solvent  to the  vial”,  under  step  3, the sentence  “Remove  the  solvent  syringe 
and needle from the vial and discard them.” is moved from the end of the paragraph to the beginning 
of the paragraph.  This change places the sequence of steps in the powder reconstitution procedure in 
the proper order for the patient. 
The MAH  has  also  made a  correction  in  section  4.8  of  the  50  mg  presentations’  SPC.  The  sentence 
"There  were  4  reports  of  macrophage  activation  syndrome  in  juvenile  idiopathic  arthritis  clinical  trials." 
was missing in this section and was therefore included. 
The other wording proposed by the MAH was agreed by the CHMP. 
III.  CONCLUSION 
On 20 November 2008 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the 
amendments  to  be  introduced  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics,  Annex  II  and  Package 
Leaflet. 
30/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
