11 January 2013 
EMA/20006/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Enbrel 
etanercept 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000262/A46/134.1 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Rapporteur’s 
Response Assessment Report 
for paediatric studies submitted in accordance  
with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as 
amended 
P46 134.1 
Enbrel 
EMEA/H/C/262 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: Pfizer Limited 
Rapporteur:  
Robert Hemmings 
Start of the procedure: 
Date of this report: 
22.07.2012 
15.10.2012 
Deadline for Rapporteur’s AR: 
16.10.2012 
Deadline for CHMP member’s 
comments: 
31.10.2012 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION 
Invented name of the medicinal 
product: 
Enbrel 
INN (or common name) of the active 
substance(s):  
Etanercept 
MAH: 
Currently approved Indication(s) 
Pfizer Limited 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Enbrel in combination with methotrexate is indicated for 
the treatment of moderate to severe active rheumatoid 
arthritis in adults when the response to disease-
modifying antirheumatic drugs, including methotrexate 
(unless contraindicated), has been inadequate. (Enbrel 
25mg - Enbrel 50mg)  
 Enbrel can be given as monotherapy in case of 
intolerance to methotrexate or when continued treatment 
with methotrexate is inappropriate. (Enbrel 25mg - 
Enbrel 50mg) 
 Enbrel is also indicated in the treatment of severe, 
active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults not 
previously treated with methotrexate. (Enbrel 25mg - 
Enbrel 50mg) 
Enbrel, alone or in combination with methotrexate, has 
been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint 
damage as measured by X-ray and to improve physical 
function. (Enbrel 25mg - Enbrel 50mg) 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Treatment of active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis in children and adolescents from the age 
of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to, or 
who have proved intolerant of, methotrexate. 
Enbrel has not been studied in children aged less than 2 
years. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in 
adults when the response to previous disease-modifying 
antirheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. Enbrel 
has been shown to improve 
physical function in patients with psoriatic arthritis, and 
to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral joint 
damage as measured by X-ray in patients with 
polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease. 
(Enbrel 25mg - Enbrel 50mg) 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing 
spondylitis who have had an inadequate response to 
conventional therapy. (Enbrel 25mg - Enbrel 50mg) 
Plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque 
psoriasis who failed to respond to, or who have a 
 
  
 
contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic 
therapy including ciclosporin, methotrexate or psoralen 
and ultraviolet-A light (PUVA)  
Plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque 
psoriasis who failed to respond to, or who have a 
contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic 
therapy, including ciclosporin, methotrexate or 
psoralen and ultraviolet-A light (PUVA) (see section 
5.1). 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of chronic severe plaque psoriasis in children 
and adolescents from the age of 6 years who 
are inadequately controlled by, or are intolerant to, other 
systemic therapies or phototherapies. 
Immunosuppressants,  Tumour  necrosis  factor  alpha 
(TNF-α) inhibitors (L04AB01) 
25mg powder for solution for injection 
25mg powder and solvent for solution for injection 
50mg powder for solution for injection 
50mg powder and solvent for solution for injection 
25mg/ml  powder  and  solvent  for  solution  for  injection 
for paediatric use 
25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
50 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
Pharmaceutical form(s) and strength(s): 
Rapporteur: 
Name: Robert Hemmings 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 
ANA 
AS  
BSA  
CDLQI  
CRF  
CRO  
CTC  
CTCAE  
DMARD  
GCP  
HRQOL  
ICF  
ICH  
IEC 
IRB  
IVRS    
JRA  
LOCF    
MedDRA  
PASI  
PASI 50  
PASI 75  
PASI 90  
sPGA    
Q1 (Q3)  
QW  
RA  
SC  
SD 
SE  
TNF  
TNFR    
TNFR:Fc  
USP  
VZV  
antinuclear antibody 
ankylosing spondylitis 
body surface area 
Children’s Dermatology Life Quality Index 
case report form 
contract research organizations 
Common Toxicity Criteria Version 2.0 
Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 
disease-modifying antirheumatic drug 
Good Clinical Practice 
health-related quality of life 
informed consent form 
International Conference on Harmonisation 
Independent Ethics Committee 
Institutional Review Board 
interactive voice response system 
juvenile rheumatoid arthritis 
last observation carried forward 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
Psoriasis Area and Severity Index 
A 50% or greater improvement (ie, decrease) in PASI score 
compared to baseline 
A 75% or greater improvement (ie, decrease) in PASI score 
compared to baseline 
A 90% or greater improvement (ie, decrease) in PASI score 
compared to baseline 
Static Physician Global Assessment (of psoriasis) 
first quartile (third quartile) 
once weekly 
rheumatoid arthritis 
subcutaneous 
standard deviation 
standard error 
tumor necrosis factor 
tumor necrosis factor receptor 
tumor necrosis factor receptor 
United States Pharmacopeia 
aricella zoster virus 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
The data were reviewed and no update of the Product Information is required (See PVAR circulated 
21.8.2012 – see section IV).   
The conclusions from the PVAR were that: 
The MAH has provided the requested CSR in fulfilment of P46 FUM 134.   
No change to the positive benefit:risk balance for Enbrel in paediatric plaque psoriasis nor any changes to 
the SmPC result from the submitted data. 
The MAH is requested to provide responses to the points below.  
Based on the data submitted, the MAH should provide response to the following points 
1.  It is not clear why one case of  Crohn’s disease AE was considered relate to Enbrel  but the other 
case of Crohn’s disease was not considered related and the MAH is asked to comment. 
2.  For the 28 subjects who are continuing treatment until they reach age 18, the MAH is requested to 
provide the expected date for this data and commit to providing this additional information  
This report addresses the responses to the two additional clarifications requested. 
II. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Assessment of responses 
Request 1. 
It is not clear why one case of Crohn’s disease AE was considered relate to Enbrel but the other case of 
Crohn’s disease was not considered related and the MAH is asked to comment. 
Response from MAH: 
Relatedness of adverse events to investigational product was a determination made at the discretion of the 
investigator, and no information was collected on the case report form with regard to how the investigator 
determined relatedness. The relationship of adverse events to the investigational product was assessed by 
means of the question: ‘Is there a reasonable possibility that the event may have been caused by the 
investigational product?’ The following descriptions were provided in the protocol to the principle 
investigator to help guide the decision of whether to choose “yes” or “no” as a response to this question: 
No = There is no reasonable possibility that the event may have been caused by investigational product. 
The adverse event: 
• may be judged to be due to extraneous causes such as disease or environment or toxic factors 
• may be judged to be due to the subject’s clinical state or other therapy being administered 
• is not biologically plausible 
• does not reappear or worsen when investigational product is readministered 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• does not follow a temporal sequence from administration of investigational Product 
Yes = There is a reasonable possibility that the event may have been caused by investigational product. 
The adverse event: 
• follows a temporal sequence from administration of investigational product 
• is a known response to the investigational product based on clinical or preclinical data 
• could not be explained by the known characteristics of the subject’s clinical state, environmental or toxic 
factors, or other therapy administered to the subject 
• disappears or decreases upon cessation or reduction of dose of investigational product 
• reappears or worsens when investigational product is readministered 
The only obvious difference in the 2 cases is that the event that was related was classified as severe 
whereas the event that was not related was classified as moderate in severity. Neither event was serious 
and both occurred in patients with a history of psoriatic arthropathy. In summary, the Sponsor/MAH does 
not have any specific additional information that accounts for the investigator’s assignment of relatedness 
for the 2 cases. 
Assessment of response and conclusion 
The MAH has no further information on why one case of Crohn’s disease AE was considered relate to 
Enbrel but the other case of Crohn’s disease was not considered related. Although this would have been of 
interest, there is no further information available and the issue will not be pursued. 
Issue resolved 
Request 2. 
For the 28 subjects who are continuing treatment until they reach age 18, the MAH is requested to provide 
the expected date for this data and commit to providing this additional information. 
Response from MAH: 
Of the current subjects still enrolled in study 20050111, the last subject turns 18 years old in November 
2017. Assuming the last subject remains in the study until this time, the MAH commits to providing the 
supplemental report, containing the serious adverse event and physician global assessment data for the 28 
subjects, in May 2018. The completion date could be sooner if the last subject withdraws from the study 
before he/she reaches 18 years of age. If so, the MAH commits to providing the supplemental report 6 
months after the completion date. 
Assessment of response and conclusion 
The MAH will provide the data in May 2018 or sooner.  Issue resolved 
III. 
RAPPORTEUR’S OVERALL CONCLUSION AND 
RECOMMENDATION 
  Recommendation  
The MAH has provided the requested CSR in fulfilment of P46 FUM 134.   
No change to the positive benefit:risk balance for Enbrel in paediatric plaque psoriasis nor any changes to 
the SmPC result from the submitted data. 
  Fulfilled – No further action required 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
