ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enbrel 25 mg powder for solution for injection 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each vial contains 25 mg of etanercept. 
Etanercept is a human tumour necrosis factor receptor p75 Fc fusion protein produced by recombinant 
DNA technology in a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) mammalian expression system. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder for solution for injection (powder for injection). 
The powder is white.  
4.  CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Enbrel in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe active 
rheumatoid arthritis in adults when the response to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, including 
methotrexate (unless contraindicated), has been inadequate. 
Enbrel can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued 
treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate. 
Enbrel is also indicated in the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults 
not previously treated with methotrexate. 
Enbrel, alone or in combination with methotrexate, has been shown to reduce the rate of progression 
of joint damage as measured by X-ray and to improve physical function. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Treatment of polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative) and extended oligoarthritis in 
children and adolescents from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to, or who have 
proved intolerant of, methotrexate.  
Treatment of psoriatic arthritis in adolescents from the age of 12 years who have had an inadequate 
response to, or who have proved intolerant of, methotrexate. 
Treatment of enthesitis-related arthritis in adolescents from the age of 12 years who have had an 
inadequate response to, or who have proved intolerant of, conventional therapy. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when the response to previous disease-
modifying antirheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. Enbrel has been shown to improve 
physical function in patients with psoriatic arthritis, and to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral 
joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease. 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have had an inadequate response to 
conventional therapy. 
Non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
Treatment of adults with severe non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis with objective signs of 
inflammation as indicated by elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) and/or magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) evidence, who have had an inadequate response to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
(NSAIDs). 
Plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who failed to respond to, or who have a 
contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy, including ciclosporin, methotrexate or 
psoralen and ultraviolet-A light (PUVA) (see section 5.1). 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of chronic severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents from the age of 6 years who 
are inadequately controlled by, or are intolerant to, other systemic therapies or phototherapies. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Enbrel treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, 
ankylosing spondylitis, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis, plaque psoriasis or paediatric plaque 
psoriasis. Patients treated with Enbrel should be given the Patient Card. 
Enbrel is available in strengths of 10, 25 and 50 mg.  
Posology 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
25 mg Enbrel administered twice weekly is the recommended dose. Alternatively, 50 mg administered 
once weekly has been shown to be safe and effective (see section 5.1). 
Psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis and non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
The recommended dose is 25 mg Enbrel administered twice weekly, or 50 mg administered once 
weekly.   
For all of the above indications, available data suggest that a clinical response is usually achieved 
within 12 weeks of treatment. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not 
responding within this time period. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Plaque psoriasis 
The recommended dose of Enbrel is 25 mg administered twice weekly or 50 mg administered once 
weekly. Alternatively, 50 mg given twice weekly may be used for up to 12 weeks followed, if 
necessary, by a dose of 25 mg twice weekly or 50 mg once weekly. Treatment with Enbrel should 
continue until remission is achieved, for up to 24 weeks. Continuous therapy beyond 24 weeks may be 
appropriate for some adult patients (see section 5.1). Treatment should be discontinued in patients who 
show no response after 12 weeks. If re-treatment with Enbrel is indicated, the same guidance on 
treatment duration should be followed. The dose should be 25 mg twice weekly or 50 mg once 
weekly.  
Special populations 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required. 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required. Posology and administration are the same as for adults 18-64 years of 
age. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Enbrel in children aged less than 2 years has not been established. 
No data are available. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis  
The recommended dose is 0.4 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 25 mg per dose), given twice weekly as a 
subcutaneous injection with an interval of 3-4 days between doses or 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 
50 mg per dose) given once weekly. Discontinuation of treatment should be considered in patients 
who show no response after 4 months. 
The 10 mg vial strength may be more appropriate for administration to children with JIA below the 
weight of 25 kg. 
No formal clinical trials have been conducted in children aged 2 to 3 years. However, limited safety 
data from a patient registry suggest that the safety profile in children from 2 to 3 years of age is similar 
to that seen in adults and children aged 4 years and older, when dosed every week with 0.8 mg/kg 
subcutaneously (see section 5.1). 
There is generally no applicable use of Enbrel in children aged below 2 years in the indication juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis (age 6 years and above) 
The recommended dose is 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 50 mg per dose) once weekly for up to 
24 weeks. Treatment should be discontinued in patients who show no response after 12 weeks. 
If re-treatment with Enbrel is indicated, the above guidance on treatment duration should be followed. 
The dose should be 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 50 mg per dose) once weekly. 
There is generally no applicable use of Enbrel in children aged below 6 years in the indication plaque 
psoriasis. 
Method of administration 
Enbrel is administered by subcutaneous injection. Enbrel powder for solution must be reconstituted in 
1 ml of solvent before use (see section 6.6). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comprehensive instructions for the preparation and administration of the reconstituted Enbrel vial are 
given in the package leaflet, section 7, "Instructions for use." Detailed instructions on unintentional 
dosing or scheduling variations, including missed doses, are provided in section 3 of the package 
leaflet. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Sepsis or risk of sepsis. 
Treatment with Enbrel should not be initiated in patients with active infections, including chronic or 
localised infections. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the brand name and batch 
number of the administered product should be clearly recorded (or stated) in the patient file. 
Infections 
Patients should be evaluated for infections before, during, and after treatment with Enbrel, taking into 
consideration that the mean elimination half-life of etanercept is approximately 70 hours (range 7 to 
300 hours). 
Serious infections, sepsis, tuberculosis, and opportunistic infections, including invasive fungal 
infections, listeriosis and legionellosis, have been reported with the use of Enbrel (see section 4.8). 
These infections were due to bacteria, mycobacteria, fungi, viruses and parasites (including protozoa). 
In some cases, particular fungal and other opportunistic infections have not been recognised, resulting 
in delay of appropriate treatment and sometimes death. In evaluating patients for infections, the 
patient’s risk for relevant opportunistic infections (e.g., exposure to endemic mycoses) should be 
considered.  
Patients who develop a new infection while undergoing treatment with Enbrel should be monitored 
closely. Administration of Enbrel should be discontinued if a patient develops a serious infection. The 
safety and efficacy of Enbrel in patients with chronic infections have not been evaluated. Physicians 
should exercise caution when considering the use of Enbrel in patients with a history of recurring or 
chronic infections or with underlying conditions that may predispose patients to infections, such as 
advanced or poorly controlled diabetes. 
Tuberculosis 
Cases of active tuberculosis, including miliary tuberculosis and tuberculosis with extra-pulmonary 
location, have been reported in patients treated with Enbrel. 
Before starting treatment with Enbrel, all patients must be evaluated for both active and inactive 
(‘latent’) tuberculosis. This evaluation should include a detailed medical history with personal history 
of tuberculosis or possible previous contact with tuberculosis and previous and/or current 
immunosuppressive therapy. Appropriate screening tests, i.e., tuberculin skin test and chest X-ray, 
should be performed in all patients (local recommendations may apply). It is recommended that the 
conduct of these tests should be recorded in the Patient Card. Prescribers are reminded of the risk of 
false negative tuberculin skin test results, especially in patients who are severely ill or 
immunocompromised. 
If active tuberculosis is diagnosed, Enbrel therapy must not be initiated. If inactive (‘latent’) 
tuberculosis is diagnosed, treatment for latent tuberculosis must be started with anti-tuberculosis 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
therapy before the initiation of Enbrel, and in accordance with local recommendations. In this 
situation, the benefit/risk balance of Enbrel therapy should be very carefully considered. 
All patients should be informed to seek medical advice if signs/symptoms suggestive of tuberculosis 
(e.g., persistent cough, wasting/weight loss, low-grade fever) appear during or after Enbrel treatment. 
Hepatitis B reactivation 
Reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who were previously infected with the hepatitis B virus (HBV) 
and had received concomitant TNF-antagonists, including Enbrel, has been reported. This includes 
reports of reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who were anti-HBc positive but HBsAg negative. 
Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with Enbrel. For patients who 
test positive for HBV infection, consultation with a physician with expertise in the treatment of 
hepatitis B is recommended. Caution should be exercised when administering Enbrel in patients 
previously infected with HBV. These patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of active 
HBV infection throughout therapy and for several weeks following termination of therapy. Adequate 
data from treating patients infected with HBV with anti-viral therapy in conjunction with 
TNF-antagonist therapy are not available. In patients who develop HBV infection, Enbrel should be 
stopped and effective anti-viral therapy with appropriate supportive treatment should be initiated. 
Worsening of hepatitis C 
There have been reports of worsening of hepatitis C in patients receiving Enbrel. Enbrel should be 
used with caution in patients with a history of hepatitis C. 
Concurrent treatment with anakinra  
Concurrent administration of Enbrel and anakinra has been associated with an increased risk of serious 
infections and neutropenia compared to Enbrel alone. This combination has not demonstrated 
increased clinical benefit. Thus, the combined use of Enbrel and anakinra is not recommended (see 
sections 4.5 and 4.8). 
Concurrent treatment with abatacept  
In clinical studies, concurrent administration of abatacept and Enbrel resulted in increased incidences 
of serious adverse events. This combination has not demonstrated increased clinical benefit; such use 
is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Allergic reactions 
Allergic reactions associated with Enbrel administration have been reported commonly. Allergic 
reactions have included angioedema and urticaria; serious reactions have occurred. If any serious 
allergic or anaphylactic reaction occurs, Enbrel therapy should be discontinued immediately and 
appropriate therapy initiated. 
Immunosuppression 
The possibility exists for TNF-antagonists, including Enbrel, to affect host defences against infections 
and malignancies since TNF mediates inflammation and modulates cellular immune responses. In a 
study of 49 adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with Enbrel, there was no evidence of 
depression of delayed-type hypersensitivity, depression of immunoglobulin levels, or change in 
enumeration of effector cell populations. 
Two juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients developed varicella infection and signs and symptoms of 
aseptic meningitis, which resolved without sequelae. Patients with a significant exposure to varicella 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
virus should temporarily discontinue Enbrel therapy and be considered for prophylactic treatment with 
Varicella Zoster Immune Globulin. 
The safety and efficacy of Enbrel in patients with immunosuppression have not been evaluated. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
Solid and haematopoietic malignancies (excluding skin cancers) 
Reports of various malignancies (including breast and lung carcinoma and lymphoma) have been 
received in the postmarketing period (see section 4.8).  
In the controlled portions of clinical trials of TNF-antagonists, more cases of lymphoma have been 
observed among patients receiving a TNF-antagonist compared with control patients. However, the 
occurrence was rare, and the follow-up period of placebo patients was shorter than for patients 
receiving TNF-antagonist therapy. In the postmarketing setting, cases of leukaemia have been reported 
in patients treated with TNF-antagonists. There is an increased background risk for lymphoma and 
leukaemia in rheumatoid arthritis patients with long-standing, highly active, inflammatory disease, 
which complicates risk estimation. 
Based on current knowledge, a possible risk for the development of lymphomas, leukaemia or other 
haematopoietic or solid malignancies in patients treated with a TNF-antagonist cannot be excluded. 
Caution should be exercised when considering TNF-antagonist therapy for patients with a history of 
malignancy or when considering continuing treatment in patients who develop a malignancy. 
Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults (up to 
22 years of age) treated with TNF-antagonists (initiation of therapy ≤ 18 years of age), including 
Enbrel, in the postmarketing setting. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas. The other cases 
represented a variety of different malignancies and included rare malignancies typically associated 
with immunosuppression. A risk for the development of malignancies in children and adolescents 
treated with TNF-antagonists cannot be excluded. 
Skin cancers 
Melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) have been reported in patients treated with 
TNF-antagonists, including Enbrel. Postmarketing cases of Merkel cell carcinoma have been reported 
very infrequently in patients treated with Enbrel. Periodic skin examination is recommended for all 
patients, particularly those with risk factors for skin cancer. 
Combining the results of controlled clinical trials, more cases of NMSC were observed in patients 
receiving Enbrel compared with control patients, particularly in patients with psoriasis.  
Vaccinations 
Live vaccines should not be given concurrently with Enbrel. No data are available on the secondary 
transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving Enbrel. In a double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, randomised clinical study in adult patients with psoriatic arthritis, 184 patients also 
received a multivalent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine at week 4. In this study, most psoriatic 
arthritis patients receiving Enbrel were able to mount effective B-cell immune response to 
pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine, but titres in aggregate were moderately lower, and few patients 
had two-fold rises in titres compared to patients not receiving Enbrel. The clinical significance of this 
is unknown. 
Autoantibody formation 
Treatment with Enbrel may result in the formation of autoimmune antibodies (see section 4.8). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Haematologic reactions 
Rare cases of pancytopenia and very rare cases of aplastic anaemia, some with fatal outcome, have 
been reported in patients treated with Enbrel. Caution should be exercised in patients being treated 
with Enbrel who have a previous history of blood dyscrasias. All patients and parents/caregivers 
should be advised that if the patient develops signs and symptoms suggestive of blood dyscrasias or 
infections (e.g., persistent fever, sore throat, bruising, bleeding, paleness) whilst on Enbrel, they 
should seek immediate medical advice. Such patients should be investigated urgently, including full 
blood count; if blood dyscrasias are confirmed, Enbrel should be discontinued. 
Neurological disorders 
There have been rare reports of CNS demyelinating disorders in patients treated with Enbrel (see 
section 4.8). Additionally, there have been rare reports of peripheral demyelinating polyneuropathies 
(including Guillain-Barré syndrome, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, 
demyelinating polyneuropathy, and multifocal motor neuropathy). Although no clinical trials have 
been performed evaluating Enbrel therapy in patients with multiple sclerosis, clinical trials of other 
TNF antagonists in patients with multiple sclerosis have shown increases in disease activity. A careful 
risk/benefit evaluation, including a neurologic assessment, is recommended when prescribing Enbrel 
to patients with pre-existing or recent onset of demyelinating disease, or to those who are considered 
to have an increased risk of developing demyelinating disease. 
Combination therapy 
In a controlled clinical trial of two years duration in rheumatoid arthritis patients, the combination of 
Enbrel and methotrexate did not result in unexpected safety findings, and the safety profile of Enbrel 
when given in combination with methotrexate was similar to the profiles reported in studies of Enbrel 
and methotrexate alone. Long-term studies to assess the safety of the combination are ongoing. The 
long-term safety of Enbrel in combination with other disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs 
(DMARD) has not been established. 
The use of Enbrel in combination with other systemic therapies or phototherapy for the treatment of 
psoriasis has not been studied. 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
Based on pharmacokinetic data (see section 5.2), no dose adjustment is needed in patients with renal 
or hepatic impairment; clinical experience in such patients is limited. 
Congestive heart failure (Cardiac failure congestive) 
Physicians should use caution when using Enbrel in patients who have congestive heart failure (CHF). 
There have been postmarketing reports of worsening of CHF, with and without identifiable 
precipitating factors, in patients taking Enbrel. There have also been rare (< 0.1%) reports of new 
onset CHF, including CHF in patients without known pre-existing cardiovascular disease. Some of 
these patients have been under 50 years of age. Two large clinical trials evaluating the use of Enbrel in 
the treatment of CHF were terminated early due to lack of efficacy. Although not conclusive, data 
from one of these trials suggest a possible tendency toward worsening CHF in those patients assigned 
to Enbrel treatment.  
Alcoholic hepatitis 
In a phase II randomised placebo-controlled study of 48 hospitalised patients treated with Enbrel or 
placebo for moderate to severe alcoholic hepatitis, Enbrel was not efficacious, and the mortality rate in 
patients treated with Enbrel was significantly higher after 6 months. Consequently, Enbrel should not 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be used in patients for the treatment of alcoholic hepatitis. Physicians should use caution when using 
Enbrel in patients who also have moderate to severe alcoholic hepatitis. 
Wegener's granulomatosis 
A placebo-controlled trial, in which 89 adult patients were treated with Enbrel in addition to standard 
therapy (including cyclophosphamide or methotrexate, and glucocorticoids) for a median duration of 
25 months, has not shown Enbrel to be an effective treatment for Wegener’s granulomatosis. The 
incidence of non-cutaneous malignancies of various types was significantly higher in patients treated 
with Enbrel than in the control group. Enbrel is not recommended for the treatment of Wegener’s 
granulomatosis. 
Hypoglycaemia in patients treated for diabetes 
There have been reports of hypoglycaemia following initiation of Enbrel in patients receiving 
medication for diabetes, necessitating a reduction in anti-diabetic medication in some of these patients. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
In the Phase 3 studies in rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis, no overall 
differences in adverse events, serious adverse events, and serious infections in patients age 65 or older 
who received Enbrel were observed compared with younger patients. However, caution should be 
exercised when treating the elderly and particular attention paid with respect to occurrence of 
infections. 
Paediatric population 
Vaccinations 
It is recommended that paediatric patients, if possible, be brought up to date with all immunisations in 
agreement with current immunisation guidelines prior to initiating Enbrel therapy (see Vaccinations, 
above). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Concurrent treatment with anakinra  
Adult patients treated with Enbrel and anakinra were observed to have a higher rate of serious 
infection when compared with patients treated with either Enbrel or anakinra alone (historical data). 
In addition, in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in adult patients receiving background 
methotrexate, patients treated with Enbrel and anakinra were observed to have a higher rate of serious 
infections (7%) and neutropenia than patients treated with Enbrel (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). The 
combination Enbrel and anakinra has not demonstrated increased clinical benefit, and is therefore not 
recommended. 
Concurrent treatment with abatacept  
In clinical studies, concurrent administration of abatacept and Enbrel resulted in increased incidences 
of serious adverse events. This combination has not demonstrated increased clinical benefit; such use 
is not recommended (see section 4.4).  
Concurrent treatment with sulfasalazine  
In a clinical study of adult patients who were receiving established doses of sulfasalazine, to which 
Enbrel was added, patients in the combination group experienced a statistically significant decrease in 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mean white blood cell counts in comparison to groups treated with Enbrel or sulfasalazine alone. The 
clinical significance of this interaction is unknown. Physicians should use caution when considering 
combination therapy with sulfasalazine. 
Non-interactions 
In clinical trials, no interactions have been observed when Enbrel was administered with 
glucocorticoids, salicylates (except sulfasalazine), nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), 
analgesics, or methotrexate. See section 4.4 for vaccination advice. 
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions were observed in studies with 
methotrexate, digoxin or warfarin. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should consider the use of appropriate contraception to avoid 
becoming pregnant during Enbrel therapy and for three weeks after discontinuation of therapy. 
Pregnancy  
Developmental toxicity studies performed in rats and rabbits have revealed no evidence of harm to the 
foetus or neonatal rat due to etanercept. The effects of etanercept on pregnancy outcomes have been 
investigated in two observational cohort studies. A higher rate of major birth defects was observed in 
one observational study comparing pregnancies exposed to etanercept (n=370) during the first 
trimester with pregnancies not exposed to etanercept or other TNF-antagonists (n=164) (adjusted odds 
ratio 2.4, 95% CI: 1.0-5.5). The types of major birth defects were consistent with those most 
commonly reported in the general population and no particular pattern of abnormalities was identified. 
No change in the rate of spontaneous abortion, stillbirth, or minor malformations was observed. In 
another observational multi-country registry study comparing the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes 
in women exposed to etanercept during the first 90 days of pregnancy (n=425) to those exposed to 
non-biologic drugs (n=3497), there was no observed increased risk of major birth defects (crude odds 
ratio [OR]= 1.22, 95% CI: 0.79-1.90; adjusted OR = 0.96, 95% CI: 0.58-1.60 after adjusting for 
country, maternal disease, parity, maternal age and smoking in early pregnancy). This study also 
showed no increased risks of minor birth defects, preterm birth, stillbirth, or infections in the first year 
of life for infants born to women exposed to etanercept during pregnancy. Enbrel should only be used 
during pregnancy if clearly needed. 
Etanercept crosses the placenta and has been detected in the serum of infants born to female patients 
treated with Enbrel during pregnancy. The clinical impact of this is unknown, however, infants may be 
at increased risk of infection. Administration of live vaccines to infants for 16 weeks after the 
mother’s last dose of Enbrel is generally not recommended. 
Breast-feeding 
In lactating rats following subcutaneous administration, etanercept was excreted in the milk and 
detected in the serum of pups. Limited information from the published literature indicates etanercept 
has been detected at low levels in human milk. Etanercept could be considered for use during 
breast-feeding taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy 
for the woman. 
While systemic exposure in a breastfed infant is expected to be low because etanercept is largely 
degraded in the gastrointestinal tract, limited data regarding systemic exposure in the breastfed infant 
are available. Therefore, the administration of live vaccines (e.g., BCG) to a breastfed infant when the 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mother is receiving etanercept could be considered 16 weeks after stopping breast-feeding (or at an 
earlier timepoint if the infant etanercept serum levels are undetectable).  
Fertility 
Preclinical data about peri- and postnatal toxicity of etanercept and of effects of etanercept on fertility 
and general reproductive performance are not available. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Enbrel has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are injection site reactions (such as pain, swelling, 
itching, reddening and bleeding at the puncture site), infections (such as upper respiratory infections, 
bronchitis, bladder infections and skin infections), headache, allergic reactions, development of 
autoantibodies, itching, and fever. 
Serious adverse reactions have also been reported for Enbrel. TNF-antagonists, such as Enbrel, affect 
the immune system and their use may affect the body’s defenses against infection and cancer. Serious 
infections affect fewer than 1 in 100 patients treated with Enbrel. Reports have included fatal and 
life-threatening infections and sepsis. Various malignancies have also been reported with use of 
Enbrel, including cancers of the breast, lung, skin and lymph glands (lymphoma).   
Serious haematological, neurological and autoimmune reactions have also been reported. These 
include rare reports of pancytopenia and very rare reports of aplastic anaemia. Central and peripheral 
demyelinating events have been seen rarely and very rarely, respectively, with Enbrel use. There have 
been rare reports of lupus, lupus-related conditions, and vasculitis. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following list of adverse reactions is based on experience from clinical trials and on 
postmarketing experience. 
Within the organ system classes, adverse reactions are listed under headings of frequency (number of 
patients expected to experience the reaction), using the following categories: very common (≥ 1/10); 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very 
rare (< 1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
System Organ 
Class 
Very 
Common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to 
< 1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000 
Very 
Rare 
< 1/10,000 
Infection 
(including 
upper 
respiratory 
tract 
infection, 
bronchitis, 
cystitis, 
skin 
infection)* 
Infections and 
infestations 
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant and 
Serious infections 
(including 
pneumonia, 
cellulitis, arthritis 
bacterial, sepsis 
and parasitic 
infection)* 
Tuberculosis, 
opportunistic 
infection (including 
invasive fungal, 
protozoal, bacterial, 
atypical 
mycobacterial, viral 
infections, and 
Legionella)* 
Non-melanoma 
skin cancers* (see 
section 4.4) 
Malignant 
melanoma (see 
section 4.4), 
11 
Not Known 
(Cannot be 
Estimated from 
Available Data) 
Hepatitis B 
reactivation, listeria 
Merkel cell 
carcinoma (see 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ 
Class 
Very 
Common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to 
< 1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000 
lymphoma, 
leukaemia  
Pancytopenia* 
Very 
Rare 
< 1/10,000 
Aplastic 
anaemia* 
Not Known 
(Cannot be 
Estimated from 
Available Data) 
section 4.4), 
Kaposi’s sarcoma 
Histiocytosis 
haematophagic 
(macrophage 
activation 
syndrome)* 
Worsening of 
symptoms of 
dermatomyositis 
Thrombocytopenia, 
anaemia, 
leukopenia, 
neutropenia 
Vasculitis 
(including anti-
neutrophilic 
cytoplasmic 
antibody positive 
vasculitis) 
Serious 
allergic/anaphylactic 
reactions (including 
angioedema, 
bronchospasm), 
sarcoidosis 
Allergic 
reactions 
(see Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue 
disorders), 
autoantibody 
formation* 
unspecified 
(including cysts 
and polyps) 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders  
Headache 
CNS demyelinating 
events suggestive of 
multiple sclerosis or 
localised 
demyelinating 
conditions, such as 
optic neuritis and 
transverse myelitis 
(see section 4.4), 
peripheral 
demyelinating 
events, including 
Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, chronic 
inflammatory 
demyelinating 
polyneuropathy, 
demyelinating 
polyneuropathy, and 
multifocal motor 
neuropathy (see 
section 4.4), seizure 
New onset cardiac 
failure congestive 
(see section 4.4) 
Interstitial lung 
disease (including 
pneumonitis and 
pulmonary 
fibrosis)* 
Autoimmune 
hepatitis* 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, 
cutaneous vasculitis 
(including 
hypersensitivity 
vasculitis), erythema 
multiforme, 
lichenoid reactions  
Cutaneous lupus 
erythematosus, 
subacute cutaneous 
lupus 
Toxic 
epidermal 
necrolysis 
Eye disorders  
Cardiac 
disorders  
Respiratory, 
thoracic, and 
mediastinal 
disorders  
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders  
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders  
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders  
Uveitis, scleritis 
Worsening of 
cardiac failure 
congestive (see 
section 4.4) 
Inflammatory 
bowel disease 
Elevated liver 
enzymes* 
Pruritus, rash  Angioedema, 
psoriasis (including 
new onset or 
worsening and 
pustular, primarily 
palms and soles), 
urticaria, 
psoriasiform rash 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very 
Rare 
< 1/10,000 
Not Known 
(Cannot be 
Estimated from 
Available Data) 
Glomerulonephritis 
System Organ 
Class 
Very 
Common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to 
< 1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000 
erythematosus, 
lupus-like syndrome 
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions  
Pyrexia 
Injection 
site 
reactions 
(including 
bleeding, 
bruising, 
erythema, 
itching, 
pain, 
swelling)* 
*see Description of selected adverse reactions, below. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
One hundred and twenty-nine (129) new malignancies of various types were observed in 4,114 
rheumatoid arthritis patients treated in clinical trials with Enbrel for up to approximately 6 years, 
including 231 patients treated with Enbrel in combination with methotrexate in the 2-year 
active-controlled study. The observed rates and incidences in these clinical trials were similar to those 
expected for the population studied. A total of 2 malignancies were reported in clinical studies of 
approximately 2 years duration involving 240 Enbrel-treated psoriatic arthritis patients. In clinical 
studies conducted for more than 2 years with 351 ankylosing spondylitis patients, 6 malignancies were 
reported in Enbrel-treated patients. In a group of 2,711 plaque psoriasis patients treated with Enbrel in 
double-blind and open-label studies of up to 2.5 years, 30 malignancies and 43 nonmelanoma skin 
cancers were reported. 
In a group of 7,416 patients treated with Enbrel in rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing 
spondylitis and psoriasis clinical trials, 18 lymphomas were reported. 
Reports of various malignancies (including breast and lung carcinoma and lymphoma) have also been 
received in the postmarketing period (see section 4.4). 
Injection site reactions 
Compared to placebo, patients with rheumatic diseases treated with Enbrel had a significantly higher 
incidence of injection site reactions (36% vs. 9%). Injection site reactions usually occurred in the first 
month. Mean duration was approximately 3 to 5 days. No treatment was given for the majority of 
injection site reactions in the Enbrel treatment groups, and the majority of patients who were given 
treatment received topical preparations, such as corticosteroids, or oral antihistamines. Additionally, 
some patients developed recall injection site reactions characterised by a skin reaction at the most 
recent site of injection, along with the simultaneous appearance of injection site reactions at previous 
injection sites. These reactions were generally transient and did not recur with treatment. 
In controlled trials in patients with plaque psoriasis, approximately 13.6% of patients treated with 
Enbrel developed injection site reactions compared with 3.4% of placebo-treated patients during the 
first 12 weeks of treatment. 
Serious infections 
In placebo-controlled trials, no increase in the incidence of serious infections (fatal, life-threatening, or 
requiring hospitalisation or intravenous antibiotics) was observed. Serious infections occurred in 6.3% 
of rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with Enbrel for up to 48 months. These included abscess (at 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
various sites), bacteraemia, bronchitis, bursitis, cellulitis, cholecystitis, diarrhoea, diverticulitis, 
endocarditis (suspected), gastroenteritis, hepatitis B, herpes zoster, leg ulcer, mouth infection, 
osteomyelitis, otitis, peritonitis, pneumonia, pyelonephritis, sepsis, septic arthritis, sinusitis, skin 
infection, skin ulcer, urinary tract infection, vasculitis, and wound infection. In the 2-year 
active-controlled study where patients were treated with either Enbrel alone, methotrexate alone or 
Enbrel in combination with methotrexate, the rates of serious infections were similar among the 
treatment groups. However, it cannot be excluded that the combination of Enbrel with methotrexate 
could be associated with an increase in the rate of infections. 
There were no differences in rates of infection among patients treated with Enbrel and those treated 
with placebo for plaque psoriasis in placebo-controlled trials of up to 24 weeks duration. Serious 
infections experienced by Enbrel-treated patients included cellulitis, gastroenteritis, pneumonia, 
cholecystitis, osteomyelitis, gastritis, appendicitis, Streptococcal fasciitis, myositis, septic shock, 
diverticulitis and abscess. In the double-blind and open-label psoriatic arthritis trials, 1 patient reported 
a serious infection (pneumonia). 
Serious and fatal infections have been reported during use of Enbrel; reported pathogens include 
bacteria, mycobacteria (including tuberculosis), viruses and fungi. Some have occurred within a few 
weeks after initiating treatment with Enbrel in patients who have underlying conditions (e.g., diabetes, 
congestive heart failure, history of active or chronic infections) in addition to their rheumatoid arthritis 
(see section 4.4). Enbrel treatment may increase mortality in patients with established sepsis. 
Opportunistic infections have been reported in association with Enbrel, including invasive fungal, 
parasitic (including protozoal), viral (including herpes zoster), bacterial (including Listeria and 
Legionella), and atypical mycobacterial infections. In a pooled data set of clinical trials, the overall 
incidence of opportunistic infections was 0.09% for the 15,402 subjects who received Enbrel. The 
exposure-adjusted rate was 0.06 events per 100 patient-years. In postmarketing experience, 
approximately half of all of the case reports of opportunistic infections worldwide were invasive 
fungal infections. The most commonly reported invasive fungal infections included Candida, 
Pneumocystis, Aspergillus, and Histoplasma. Invasive fungal infections accounted for more than half 
of the fatalities amongst patients who developed opportunistic infections. The majority of the reports 
with a fatal outcome were in patients with Pneumocystis pneumonia, unspecified systemic fungal 
infections, and aspergillosis (see section 4.4). 
Autoantibodies 
Adult patients had serum samples tested for autoantibodies at multiple timepoints. Of the rheumatoid 
arthritis patients evaluated for antinuclear antibodies (ANA), the percentage of patients who developed 
new positive ANA (≥1:40) was higher in patients treated with Enbrel (11%) than in placebo-treated 
patients (5%). The percentage of patients who developed new positive anti-double-stranded DNA 
antibodies was also higher by radioimmunoassay (15% of patients treated with Enbrel compared to 4% 
of placebo-treated patients) and by Crithidia luciliae assay (3% of patients treated with Enbrel 
compared to none of placebo-treated patients). The proportion of patients treated with Enbrel who 
developed anticardiolipin antibodies was similarly increased compared to placebo-treated patients. 
The impact of long-term treatment with Enbrel on the development of autoimmune diseases is 
unknown. 
There have been rare reports of patients, including rheumatoid factor positive patients, who have 
developed other autoantibodies in conjunction with a lupus-like syndrome or rashes that are 
compatible with subacute cutaneous lupus or discoid lupus by clinical presentation and biopsy. 
Pancytopenia and aplastic anaemia 
There have been postmarketing reports of pancytopenia and aplastic anaemia, some of which had fatal 
outcomes (see section 4.4). 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interstitial lung disease 
In controlled clinical trials of etanercept across all indications, the frequency (incidence proportion) of 
interstitial lung disease in patients receiving etanercept without concomitant methotrexate was 0.06% 
(frequency rare). In the controlled clinical trials that allowed concomitant treatment with etanercept 
and methotrexate, the frequency (incidence proportion) of interstitial lung disease was 0.47% 
(frequency uncommon). There have been postmarketing reports of interstitial lung disease (including 
pneumonitis and pulmonary fibrosis), some of which had fatal outcomes.  
Concurrent treatment with anakinra  
In studies when adult patients received concurrent treatment with Enbrel plus anakinra, a higher rate of 
serious infections compared to Enbrel alone was observed and 2% of patients (3/139) developed 
neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count < 1000/mm3). While neutropenic, one patient developed 
cellulitis that resolved after hospitalisation (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Elevated liver enzymes 
In the double-blind periods of controlled clinical trials of etanercept across all indications, the 
frequency (incidence proportion) of adverse events of elevated liver enzymes in patients receiving 
etanercept without concomitant methotrexate was 0.54% (frequency uncommon). In the double-blind 
periods of controlled clinical trials that allowed concomitant treatment with etanercept and 
methotrexate, the frequency (incidence proportion) of adverse events of elevated liver enzymes was 
4.18% (frequency common). 
Autoimmune hepatitis 
In controlled clinical trials of etanercept across all indications, the frequency (incidence proportion) of 
autoimmune hepatitis in patients receiving etanercept without concomitant methotrexate was 0.02% 
(frequency rare). In the controlled clinical trials that allowed concomitant treatment with etanercept 
and methotrexate, the frequency (incidence proportion) of autoimmune hepatitis was 0.24% 
(frequency uncommon).  
Paediatric population 
Undesirable effects in paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
In general, the adverse events in paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis were similar in 
frequency and type to those seen in adult patients. Differences from adults and other special 
considerations are discussed in the following paragraphs. 
The types of infections seen in clinical trials in juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients aged 2 to 18 years 
were generally mild to moderate and consistent with those commonly seen in outpatient paediatric 
populations. Severe adverse events reported included varicella with signs and symptoms of aseptic 
meningitis, which resolved without sequelae (see also section 4.4), appendicitis, gastroenteritis, 
depression/personality disorder, cutaneous ulcer, oesophagitis/gastritis, group A streptococcal septic 
shock, type I diabetes mellitus, and soft tissue and post-operative wound infection. 
In one study in children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis aged 4 to 17 years, 43 of 69 (62%) children 
experienced an infection while receiving Enbrel during 3 months of the study (part 1, open-label), and 
the frequency and severity of infections was similar in 58 patients completing 12 months of open-label 
extension therapy. The types and proportion of adverse events in juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients 
were similar to those seen in trials of Enbrel in adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and the 
majority were mild. Several adverse events were reported more commonly in 69 juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis patients receiving 3 months of Enbrel compared to the 349 adult rheumatoid arthritis patients. 
These included headache (19% of patients, 1.7 events per patient year), nausea (9%, 1.0 event per 
patient year), abdominal pain (19%, 0.74 events per patient year), and vomiting (13%, 0.74 events per 
patient year). 
There were 4 reports of macrophage activation syndrome in juvenile idiopathic arthritis clinical trials. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Undesirable effects in paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
In a 48-week study in 211 children aged 4 to 17 years with paediatric plaque psoriasis, the adverse 
events reported were similar to those seen in previous studies in adults with plaque psoriasis. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No dose-limiting toxicities were observed during clinical trials of rheumatoid arthritis patients. The 
highest dose level evaluated has been an intravenous loading dose of 32 mg/m2 followed by 
subcutaneous doses of 16 mg/m2 administered twice weekly. One rheumatoid arthritis patient 
mistakenly self-administered 62 mg Enbrel subcutaneously twice weekly for 3 weeks without 
experiencing undesirable effects. There is no known antidote to Enbrel. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF-α) inhibitors, 
ATC code: L04AB01 
Tumour necrosis factor (TNF) is a dominant cytokine in the inflammatory process of rheumatoid 
arthritis. Elevated levels of TNF are also found in the synovium and psoriatic plaques of patients with 
psoriatic arthritis and in serum and synovial tissue of patients with ankylosing spondylitis. In plaque 
psoriasis, infiltration by inflammatory cells, including T-cells, leads to increased TNF levels in 
psoriatic lesions compared with levels in uninvolved skin. Etanercept is a competitive inhibitor of 
TNF binding to its cell surface receptors, and thereby inhibits the biological activity of TNF. TNF and 
lymphotoxin are pro-inflammatory cytokines that bind to two distinct cell surface receptors: the 
55-kilodalton (p55) and 75-kilodalton (p75) tumour necrosis factor receptors (TNFRs). Both TNFRs 
exist naturally in membrane-bound and soluble forms. Soluble TNFRs are thought to regulate TNF 
biological activity. 
TNF and lymphotoxin exist predominantly as homotrimers, with their biological activity dependent on 
cross-linking of cell surface TNFRs. Dimeric soluble receptors, such as etanercept, possess a higher 
affinity for TNF than monomeric receptors and are considerably more potent competitive inhibitors of 
TNF binding to its cellular receptors. In addition, use of an immunoglobulin Fc region as a fusion 
element in the construction of a dimeric receptor imparts a longer serum half-life. 
Mechanism of action 
Much of the joint pathology in rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis and skin pathology in 
plaque psoriasis is mediated by pro-inflammatory molecules that are linked in a network controlled by 
TNF. The mechanism of action of etanercept is thought to be its competitive inhibition of TNF 
binding to cell surface TNFR, preventing TNF-mediated cellular responses by rendering TNF 
biologically inactive. Etanercept may also modulate biologic responses controlled by additional 
downstream molecules (e.g., cytokines, adhesion molecules, or proteinases) that are induced or 
regulated by TNF. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
This section presents data from four randomised controlled trials in adults with rheumatoid arthritis, 
one study in adults with psoriatic arthritis, one study in adults with ankylosing spondylitis, two studies 
in adults with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis, four studies in adults with plaque psoriasis, 
three studies in juvenile idiopathic arthritis and one study in paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis. 
Adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis 
The efficacy of Enbrel was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The 
study evaluated 234 adult patients with active rheumatoid arthritis who had failed therapy with at least 
one but no more than four disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Doses of 10 mg or 
25 mg Enbrel or placebo were administered subcutaneously twice a week for 6 consecutive months. 
The results of this controlled trial were expressed in percentage improvement in rheumatoid arthritis 
using American College of Rheumatology (ACR) response criteria.  
ACR 20 and 50 responses were higher in patients treated with Enbrel at 3 and 6 months than in 
patients treated with placebo (ACR 20: Enbrel 62% and 59%, placebo 23% and 11% at 3 and 
6 months, respectively: ACR 50: Enbrel 41% and 40%, placebo 8% and 5% at months 3 and 6, 
respectively; p<0.01 Enbrel vs. placebo at all timepoints for both ACR 20 and ACR 50 responses).  
Approximately 15% of subjects who received Enbrel achieved an ACR 70 response at month 3 and 
month 6 compared to fewer than 5% of subjects in the placebo arm. Among patients receiving Enbrel, 
the clinical responses generally appeared within 1 to 2 weeks after initiation of therapy and nearly 
always occurred by 3 months. A dose response was seen; results with 10 mg were intermediate 
between placebo and 25 mg. Enbrel was significantly better than placebo in all components of the 
ACR criteria, as well as other measures of rheumatoid arthritis disease activity not included in the 
ACR response criteria, such as morning stiffness. A Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), which 
included disability, vitality, mental health, general health status, and arthritis-associated health status 
subdomains, was administered every 3 months during the trial. All subdomains of the HAQ were 
improved in patients treated with Enbrel compared to controls at 3 and 6 months.  
After discontinuation of Enbrel, symptoms of arthritis generally returned within a month. 
Re-introduction of treatment with Enbrel after discontinuation of up to 24 months resulted in the same 
magnitudes of responses as patients who received Enbrel without interruption of therapy based on 
results of open-label studies. Continued durable responses have been seen for up to 10 years in 
open-label extension treatment trials when patients received Enbrel without interruption.  
The efficacy of Enbrel was compared to methotrexate in a randomised, active-controlled study with 
blinded radiographic evaluations as a primary endpoint in 632 adult patients with active rheumatoid 
arthritis (<3 years duration) who had never received treatment with methotrexate. Doses of 10 mg or 
25 mg Enbrel were administered subcutaneously (SC) twice a week for up to 24 months. Methotrexate 
doses were escalated from 7.5 mg/week to a maximum of 20 mg/week over the first 8 weeks of the 
trial and continued for up to 24 months. Clinical improvement, including onset of action within 
2 weeks with Enbrel 25 mg, was similar to that seen in the previous trials and was maintained for up to 
24 months. At baseline, patients had a moderate degree of disability, with mean HAQ scores of 1.4 to 
1.5. Treatment with Enbrel 25 mg resulted in substantial improvement at 12 months, with about 44% 
of patients achieving a normal HAQ score (less than 0.5). This benefit was maintained in Year 2 of 
this study. 
In this study, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in Total 
Sharp Score (TSS) and its components, the erosion score and Joint Space Narrowing (JSN) score. 
Radiographs of hands/wrists and feet were read at baseline and 6, 12, and 24 months. The 10 mg 
Enbrel dose had consistently less effect on structural damage than the 25 mg dose. Enbrel 25 mg was 
significantly superior to methotrexate for erosion scores at both 12 and 24 months. The differences in 
TSS and JSN were not statistically significant between methotrexate and Enbrel 25 mg. The results are 
shown in the figure below. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Radiographic  Progression:  Comparison  of  Enbrel  vs.  Methotrexate  in  Patients  with  RA  of 
<3 Years Duration 
12 Months
1.3
0.9
0.8
0.4*
0.4 0.4
e
n
i
l
e
s
a
B
m
o
r
f
e
g
n
a
h
C
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
24 Months
2.2
1.3
1.2
0.9
0.6*
0.6
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
TSS Erosions
JSN
TSS
Erosions
JSN
MTX
Enbrel 25 mg
*p < 0.05
In another active-controlled, double-blind, randomised study, clinical efficacy, safety, and 
radiographic progression in RA patients treated with Enbrel alone (25 mg twice weekly), methotrexate 
alone (7.5 to 20 mg weekly, median dose 20 mg), and the combination of Enbrel and methotrexate 
initiated concurrently were compared in 682 adult patients with active rheumatoid arthritis of 6 months 
to 20 years duration (median 5 years) who had a less than satisfactory response to at least 1 disease-
modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) other than methotrexate. 
Patients in the Enbrel in combination with methotrexate therapy group had significantly higher 
ACR 20, ACR 50, ACR 70 responses and improvement for DAS and HAQ scores at both 24 and 
52 weeks than patients in either of the single therapy groups (results shown in table below). 
Significant advantages for Enbrel in combination with methotrexate compared with Enbrel 
monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy were also observed after 24 months. 
Clinical Efficacy Results at 12 Months: Comparison of Enbrel vs. Methotrexate vs. Enbrel 
in Combination with Methotrexate in Patients with RA of 6 Months To 20 Years Duration 
Endpoint 
ACR Responsesa  
ACR 20 
ACR 50 
ACR 70 
DAS 
Baseline scoreb 
Week 52 scoreb 
Remissionc 
Methotrexate 
(n = 228) 
Enbrel 
(n = 223) 
58.8% 
36.4% 
16.7% 
5.5 
3.0 
14% 
65.5% 
43.0% 
22.0% 
5.7 
3.0 
18% 
Enbrel + 
Methotrexate 
(n = 231) 
74.5% †,φ 
63.2% †,φ 
39.8% †,φ 
5.5 
2.3†,φ 
37%†,φ 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical Efficacy Results at 12 Months: Comparison of Enbrel vs. Methotrexate vs. Enbrel 
in Combination with Methotrexate in Patients with RA of 6 Months To 20 Years Duration 
Endpoint 
HAQ 
Baseline 
Week 52 
Methotrexate 
(n = 228) 
Enbrel 
(n = 223) 
1.7 
1.1 
1.7 
1.0 
Enbrel + 
Methotrexate 
(n = 231) 
1.8 
0.8†,φ 
a: Patients who did not complete 12 months in the study were considered to be non-responders. 
b: Values for Disease Activity Score (DAS) are means. 
c: Remission is defined as DAS <1.6. 
Pairwise comparison p-values: † = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs. 
methotrexate and φ = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs. Enbrel. 
Radiographic progression at 12 months was significantly less in the Enbrel group than in the 
methotrexate group, while the combination was significantly better than either monotherapy at 
slowing radiographic progression (see figure below). 
Radiographic Progression: Comparison of Enbrel vs. Methotrexate vs. Enbrel in Combination 
with Methotrexate in Patients with RA of 6 Months To 20 Years Duration (12 Month Results) 
e
n
i
l
e
s
a
B
m
o
r
f
e
g
n
a
h
C
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
-0.5
-1.0
2.80
Methotrexate
Enbrel 
Enbrel + Methotrexate
1.68
1.12
0.52*
0.21*
0.32
-0.30†
-0.23†,φ
-0.54†,φ
TSS
Erosions
JSN
Pairwise comparison p-values: * = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel vs. 
methotrexate, † = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs. 
methotrexate and φ = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs. 
Enbrel. 
Significant advantages for Enbrel in combination with methotrexate compared with Enbrel 
monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy were also observed after 24 months. Similarly, the 
significant advantages for Enbrel monotherapy compared with methotrexate monotherapy were also 
observed after 24 months. 
In an analysis in which all patients who dropped out of the study for any reason were considered to 
have progressed, the percentage of patients without progression (TSS change ≤ 0.5) at 24 months was 
higher in the Enbrel in combination with methotrexate group compared with the Enbrel alone and 
methotrexate alone groups (62%, 50%, and 36%, respectively; p<0.05). The difference between 
Enbrel alone and methotrexate alone was also significant (p<0.05). Among patients who completed a 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
full 24 months of therapy in the study, the non-progression rates were 78%, 70%, and 61%, 
respectively. 
The safety and efficacy of 50 mg Enbrel (two 25 mg SC injections) administered once weekly were 
evaluated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 420 patients with active RA. In this study, 53 
patients received placebo, 214 patients received 50 mg Enbrel once weekly and 153 patients received 
25 mg Enbrel twice weekly. The safety and efficacy profiles of the two Enbrel treatment regimens 
were comparable at week 8 in their effect on signs and symptoms of RA; data at week 16 did not show 
comparability (non-inferiority) between the two regimens. 
Adult patients with psoriatic arthritis 
The efficacy of Enbrel was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in 205 
patients with psoriatic arthritis. Patients were between 18 and 70 years of age and had active psoriatic 
arthritis (≥ 3 swollen joints and ≥ 3 tender joints) in at least one of the following forms: (1) distal 
interphalangeal (DIP) involvement; (2) polyarticular arthritis (absence of rheumatoid nodules and 
presence of psoriasis); (3) arthritis mutilans; (4) asymmetric psoriatic arthritis; or (5) spondylitis-like 
ankylosis. Patients also had plaque psoriasis with a qualifying target lesion ≥ 2 cm in diameter. 
Patients had previously been treated with NSAIDs (86%), DMARDs (80%), and corticosteroids 
(24%). Patients currently on methotrexate therapy (stable for ≥ 2 months) could continue at a stable 
dose of ≤ 25 mg/week methotrexate. Doses of 25 mg of Enbrel (based on dose-finding studies in 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis) or placebo were administered SC twice a week for 6 months. At the 
end of the double-blind study, patients could enter a long-term open-label extension study for a total 
duration of up to 2 years. 
Clinical responses were expressed as percentages of patients achieving the ACR 20, 50, and 70 
response and percentages with improvement in Psoriatic Arthritis Response Criteria (PsARC). Results 
are summarised in the table below. 
Responses of Patients with Psoriatic Arthritis in a 
Placebo-Controlled Trial 
  Psoriatic Arthritis Response 
Percent of Patients 
Placebo 
n = 104 
Enbrela 
n = 101 
  ACR 20 
     Month 3 
     Month 6 
  ACR 50 
     Month 3 
     Month 6 
  ACR 70 
     Month 3 
     Month 6 
  PsARC 
     Month 3 
     Month 6 
15 
13 
4 
4 
0 
1 
31 
23 
59b 
50b 
38b 
37b 
11b 
9c 
72b 
70b 
a: 25 mg Enbrel SC twice weekly 
b: p < 0.001, Enbrel vs. placebo 
c: p < 0.01, Enbrel vs. placebo 
Among patients with psoriatic arthritis who received Enbrel, the clinical responses were apparent at 
the time of the first visit (4 weeks) and were maintained through 6 months of therapy. Enbrel was 
significantly better than placebo in all measures of disease activity (p < 0.001), and responses were 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
similar with and without concomitant methotrexate therapy. Quality of life in psoriatic arthritis 
patients was assessed at every timepoint using the disability index of the HAQ. The disability index 
score was significantly improved at all timepoints in psoriatic arthritis patients treated with Enbrel, 
relative to placebo (p < 0.001).  
Radiographic changes were assessed in the psoriatic arthritis study. Radiographs of hands and wrists 
were obtained at baseline and months 6, 12, and 24. The modified TSS at 12 months is presented in 
the table below. In an analysis in which all patients who dropped out of the study for any reason were 
considered to have progressed, the percentage of patients without progression (TSS change ≤ 0.5) at 
12 months was higher in the Enbrel group compared with the placebo group (73% vs. 47%, 
respectively, p ≤ 0.001). The effect of Enbrel on radiographic progression was maintained in patients 
who continued on treatment during the second year. The slowing of peripheral joint damage was 
observed in patients with polyarticular symmetrical joint involvement.   
Mean (SE) Annualized Change from Baseline in Total Sharp Score 
Time 
Month 12 
SE = standard error.   
a. p = 0.0001.   
Placebo 
(n = 104) 
1.00 (0.29) 
Etanercept 
(n = 101) 
-0.03 (0.09)a 
Enbrel treatment resulted in improvement in physical function during the double-blind period, and this 
benefit was maintained during the longer-term exposure of up to 2 years. 
There is insufficient evidence of the efficacy of Enbrel in patients with ankylosing spondylitis-like and 
arthritis mutilans psoriatic arthropathies due to the small number of patients studied. 
No study has been performed in patients with psoriatic arthritis using the 50 mg once-weekly dosing 
regimen. Evidence of efficacy for the once-weekly dosing regimen in this patient population has been 
based on data from the study in patients with ankylosing spondylitis. 
Adult patients with ankylosing spondylitis 
The efficacy of Enbrel in ankylosing spondylitis was assessed in 3 randomised, double-blind studies 
comparing twice-weekly administration of 25 mg Enbrel with placebo. A total of 401 patients were 
enrolled, from which 203 were treated with Enbrel. The largest of these trials (n= 277) enrolled 
patients who were between 18 and 70 years of age and had active ankylosing spondylitis defined as 
visual analog scale (VAS) scores of ≥ 30 for average of duration and intensity of morning stiffness 
plus VAS scores of ≥ 30 for at least 2 of the following 3 parameters: patient global assessment; 
average of VAS values for nocturnal back pain and total back pain; average of 10 questions on the 
Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index (BASFI). Patients receiving DMARDs, NSAIDS, or 
corticosteroids could continue them on stable doses. Patients with complete ankylosis of the spine 
were not included in the study. Doses of 25 mg of Enbrel (based on dose-finding studies in patients 
with rheumatoid arthritis) or placebo were administered subcutaneously twice a week for 6 months in 
138 patients. 
The primary measure of efficacy (ASAS 20) was a ≥20% improvement in at least 3 of the 4 
Assessment in Ankylosing Spondylitis (ASAS) domains (patient global assessments, back pain, 
BASFI, and inflammation) and absence of deterioration in the remaining domain. ASAS 50 and 70 
responses used the same criteria with a 50% improvement or a 70% improvement, respectively. 
Compared to placebo, treatment with Enbrel resulted in significant improvements in the ASAS 20, 
ASAS 50 and ASAS 70 as early as 2 weeks after the initiation of therapy. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Responses of Patients with Ankylosing Spondylitis in a 
Placebo-controlled Trial 
  Ankylosing Spondylitis 
Response 
  ASAS 20  
  2 weeks 
  3 months 
  6 months 
  ASAS 50  
  2 weeks 
  3 months 
  6 months 
  ASAS 70 
  2 weeks 
  3 months 
  6 months  
 a: p <0.001, Enbrel vs. placebo 
 b: p = 0.002, Enbrel vs. placebo 
Percent of Patients 
Placebo 
N = 139 
Enbrel 
N = 138 
22 
27 
23 
7 
13 
10 
2 
7 
5 
46a 
60a 
58a 
24a 
45a 
42a 
12b 
29b 
28b 
Among patients with ankylosing spondylitis who received Enbrel, the clinical responses were apparent 
at the time of the first visit (2 weeks) and were maintained through 6 months of therapy. Responses 
were similar in patients who were or were not receiving concomitant therapies at baseline. 
Similar results were obtained in the 2 smaller ankylosing spondylitis trials. 
In a fourth study, the safety and efficacy of 50 mg Enbrel (two 25 mg SC injections) administered 
once weekly vs. 25 mg Enbrel administered twice weekly were evaluated in a double-blind, 
placebo-controlled study of 356 patients with active ankylosing spondylitis. The safety and efficacy 
profiles of the 50 mg once-weekly and 25 mg twice-weekly regimens were similar. 
Adult patients with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
Study 1 
The efficacy of Enbrel in patients with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (nr-AxSpa) was 
assessed in a randomised, 12-week double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The study evaluated 
215 adult patients (modified intent-to-treat population) with active nr-AxSpa (18 to 49 years of age), 
defined as those patients meeting the ASAS classification criteria of axial spondyloarthritis but did not 
meet the modified New York criteria for AS. Patients were also required to have an inadequate 
response or intolerance to two or more NSAIDs. In the double-blind period, patients received Enbrel 
50 mg weekly or placebo for 12 weeks. The primary measure of efficacy (ASAS 40) was a 40% 
improvement in at least three of the four ASAS domains and absence of deterioration in the remaining 
domain. The double-blind period was followed by an open-label period during which all patients 
receive Enbrel 50 mg weekly for up to an additional 92 weeks. MRIs of the sacroiliac joint and spine 
were obtained to assess inflammation at baseline and at weeks 12 and 104. 
Compared to placebo, treatment with Enbrel resulted in statistically significant improvement in the 
ASAS 40, ASAS 20 and ASAS 5/6. Significant improvement was also observed for the ASAS partial 
remission and BASDAI 50. Week 12 results are shown in the table below. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy Response in Placebo-Controlled nr-AxSpa Study: Percent of Patients Achieving 
Endpoints 
Double-Blind Clinical 
Responses at Week 12  
ASAS** 40 
ASAS 20 
ASAS 5/6 
ASAS partial remission 
BASDAI***50 
*Some patients did not provide complete data for each endpoint 
**ASAS=Assessments in Spondyloarthritis International Society 
***Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index 
a: p <0.001, b:<0.01 and c:<0.05, respectively between Enbrel and placebo 
Placebo 
N=106 to 109* 
15.7 
36.1 
10.4 
11.9 
23.9 
Enbrel 
N=103 to 105* 
32.4b 
52.4c 
33.0a 
24.8c 
43.8b 
At week 12, there was a statistically significant improvement in the SPARCC (Spondyloarthritis 
Research Consortium of Canada) score for the sacroiliac joint (SIJ) as measured by MRI for patients 
receiving Enbrel. Adjusted mean change from baseline was 3.8 for Enbrel treated (n=95) versus 0.8 
for placebo treated (n=105) patients (p<0.001). At week 104, the mean change from baseline in the 
SPARCC score measured on MRI for all Enbrel-treated subjects was 4.64 for the SIJ (n=153) and 
1.40 the spine (n=154). 
Enbrel showed statistically significantly greater improvement from baseline to week 12 compared to 
placebo in most health-related quality of life and physical function assessments, including BASFI 
(Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index), EuroQol 5D Overall Health State Score and SF-36 
Physical Component Score. 
Clinical responses among nr-AxSpa patients who received Enbrel were apparent at the time of the first 
visit (2 weeks) and were maintained through 2 years of therapy. Improvements in health-related 
quality of life and physical function were also maintained through 2 years of therapy. The 2 year data 
did not reveal any new safety findings. At week 104, 8 subjects had progressed to a score of bilateral 
Grade 2 on spinal X-ray according to the modified New York Radiological Grade, indicative of axial 
spondyloarthropathy. 
Study 2 
This multi-center, open-label, phase 4, 3-period study evaluated the withdrawal and retreatment of 
Enbrel in patients with active nr-AxSpa who achieved an adequate response (inactive disease defined 
as Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Score (ASDAS) C-reactive protein (CRP) less than 1.3) 
following 24 weeks of treatment.  
209 adult patients with active nr-AxSpa (18 to 49 years of age), defined as those patients meeting the 
Assessment of SpondyloArthritis International Society (ASAS) classification criteria of axial 
spondyloarthritis (but not meeting the modified New York criteria for AS), having positive MRI 
findings (active inflammation on MRI highly suggestive of sacroiliitis associated with SpA) and/or 
positive hsCRP (defined as high sensitivity C-reactive protein [hsCRP] > 3 mg/l), and active 
symptoms defined by an ASDAS CRP greater than or equal to 2.1 at the screening visit received 
open-label Enbrel 50 mg weekly plus stable background NSAID at the optimal tolerated 
anti-inflammatory dosage for 24 weeks in Period 1. Patients were also required to have an inadequate 
response or intolerance to two or more NSAIDs. At week 24, 119 (57%) patients achieved inactive 
disease and entered into the Period 2 40-week withdrawal phase where subjects discontinued 
etanercept, yet maintained the background NSAID. The primary measure of efficacy was the 
occurrence of flare (defined as an ASDAS erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) greater than or equal 
to 2.1) within 40 weeks following withdrawal of Enbrel. Patients who flared were retreated with 
Enbrel 50 mg weekly for 12 weeks (Period 3). 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Period 2, the proportion of patients experiencing ≥1 flare increased from 22% (25/112) at week 4 to 
67% (77/115) at week 40. Overall, 75% (86/115) patients experienced a flare at any time point within 
40 weeks following withdrawal of Enbrel.  
The key secondary objective of Study 2 was to estimate time to flare after withdrawal of Enbrel and 
additionally compare the time to flare to patients from Study 1 who met the Study 2 withdrawal phase 
entry requirements and continued Enbrel therapy.   
The median time to flare following withdrawal of Enbrel was 16 weeks (95% CI: 13-24 weeks). Less 
than 25% of patients in Study 1 who did not have treatment withdrawn experienced a flare over the 
equivalent 40-weeks as in Period 2 Study 2. The time to flare was statistically significantly shorter in 
subjects who discontinued Enbrel treatment (Study 2) compared to subjects who received continuous 
etanercept treatment (Study 1), p<0.0001. 
Of the 87 patients who entered Period 3 and were retreated with Enbrel 50 mg weekly for 12 weeks, 
62% (54/87) reachieved inactive disease, with 50% of them reachieving it within 5 weeks (95% CI: 
4-8 weeks). 
Adult patients with plaque psoriasis 
Enbrel is recommended for use in patients as defined in section 4.1. Patients who “failed to respond 
to” in the target population is defined by insufficient response (PASI<50 or PGA less than good), or 
worsening of the disease while on treatment, and who were adequately dosed for a sufficiently long 
duration to assess response with at least one of the three major systemic therapies as available. 
The efficacy of Enbrel versus other systemic therapies in patients with moderate to severe psoriasis 
(responsive to other systemic therapies) has not been evaluated in studies directly comparing Enbrel 
with other systemic therapies. Instead, the safety and efficacy of Enbrel were assessed in four 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. The primary efficacy endpoint in all four studies 
was the proportion of patients in each treatment group who achieved the PASI 75 (i.e., at least a 75% 
improvement in the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index score from baseline) at 12 weeks. 
Study 1 was a Phase 2 study in patients with active, but clinically stable, plaque psoriasis involving 
≥ 10% of the body surface area who were ≥ 18 years old. One hundred and twelve (112) patients were 
randomised to receive a dose of 25 mg of Enbrel (n=57) or placebo (n=55) twice a week for 24 weeks. 
Study 2 evaluated 652 patients with chronic plaque psoriasis using the same inclusion criteria as study 
1 with the addition of a minimum psoriasis area and severity index (PASI) of 10 at screening. Enbrel 
was administered at doses of 25 mg once a week, 25 mg twice a week or 50 mg twice a week for 
6 consecutive months. During the first 12 weeks of the double-blind treatment period, patients 
received placebo or one of the above three Enbrel doses. After 12 weeks of treatment, patients in the 
placebo group began treatment with blinded Enbrel (25 mg twice a week); patients in the active 
treatment groups continued to week 24 on the dose to which they were originally randomised. 
Study 3 evaluated 583 patients and had the same inclusion criteria as study 2. Patients in this study 
received a dose of 25 mg or 50 mg Enbrel, or placebo twice a week for 12 weeks and then all patients 
received open-label 25 mg Enbrel twice weekly for an additional 24 weeks. 
Study 4 evaluated 142 patients and had similar inclusion criteria to studies 2 and 3. Patients in this 
study received a dose of 50 mg Enbrel or placebo once weekly for 12 weeks and then all patients 
received open-label 50 mg Enbrel once weekly for an additional 12 weeks. 
In study 1, the Enbrel-treated group had a significantly higher proportion of patients with a PASI 75 
response at week 12 (30%) compared to the placebo-treated group (2%) (p<0.0001). At 24 weeks, 
56% of patients in the Enbrel-treated group had achieved the PASI 75 compared to 5% of 
placebo-treated patients. Key results of studies 2, 3 and 4 are shown below. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Responses of Patients with Psoriasis in Studies 2, 3 and 4 
Study 3 
--------Enbrel------- 
50 mg 
25 mg 
BIW 
BIW 
n = 196 
n = 196 
wk 12 
wk 12 
Placebo 
n = 46 
wk 12 
Study 4 
-------Enbrel------ 
50 mg 
50 mg 
QW 
QW 
n = 90 
n = 96 
wk 24a 
wk 12 
Placebo 
n = 193 
wk 12 
Placebo 
n = 166 
wk 12 
Study 2 
----------Enbrel--------- 
50 mg  
BIW 
25 mg  
BIW 
n = 
162 
wk 
12 
58* 
34* 
n = 
162 
wk 
24a 
70 
44 
n = 
164 
wk 
12 
74* 
49* 
n = 
164 
wk 
24a 
77 
59 
9 
3 
14 
4 
Respons
e (%) 
PASI 50 
PASI 75 
DSGA b, 
clear or 
almost 
clear 
*p ≤ 0.0001 compared with placebo 
a. No statistical comparisons to placebo were made at week 24 in studies 2 and 4 because the original 
placebo group began receiving Enbrel 25 mg BIW or 50 mg once weekly from week 13 to week 24. 
b. Dermatologist Static Global Assessment. Clear or almost clear defined as 0 or 1 on a 0 to 5 scale. 
77* 
49* 
69* 
38* 
64* 
34* 
39* 
57* 
39* 
34* 
49* 
9 
2 
55 
39 
5 
4 
4 
83 
71 
64 
Among patients with plaque psoriasis who received Enbrel, significant responses relative to placebo 
were apparent at the time of the first visit (2 weeks) and were maintained through 24 weeks of therapy. 
Study 2 also had a drug withdrawal period during which patients who achieved a PASI improvement 
of at least 50% at week 24 had treatment stopped. Patients were observed off treatment for the 
occurrence of rebound (PASI ≥150% of baseline) and for the time to relapse (defined as a loss of at 
least half of the improvement achieved between baseline and week 24). During the withdrawal period, 
symptoms of psoriasis gradually returned, with a median time to disease relapse of 3 months. No 
rebound flare of disease and no psoriasis-related serious adverse events were observed. There was 
some evidence to support a benefit of re-treatment with Enbrel in patients initially responding to 
treatment. 
In study 3, the majority of patients (77%) who were initially randomised to 50 mg twice weekly and 
had their Enbrel dose decreased at week 12 to 25 mg twice weekly maintained their PASI 75 response 
through week 36. For patients who received 25 mg twice weekly throughout the study, the PASI 75 
response continued to improve between weeks 12 and 36. 
In study 4, the Enbrel-treated group had a higher proportion of patients with PASI 75 at week 12 
(38%) compared to the placebo-treated group (2%) (p< 0.0001). For patients who received 50 mg once 
weekly throughout the study, the efficacy responses continued to improve with 71% achieving PASI 
75 at week 24. 
In long-term (up to 34 months) open-label studies where Enbrel was given without interruption, 
clinical responses were sustained and safety was comparable to shorter-term studies. 
An analysis of clinical trial data did not reveal any baseline disease characteristics that would assist 
clinicians in selecting the most appropriate dosing option (intermittent or continuous). Consequently, 
the choice of intermittent or continuous therapy should be based upon physician judgment and 
individual patient needs. 
Antibodies to Enbrel 
Antibodies to etanercept have been detected in the sera of some subjects treated with etanercept. 
These antibodies have all been non-neutralising and are generally transient. There appears to be no 
correlation between antibody development and clinical response or adverse events. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In subjects treated with approved doses of etanercept in clinical trials for up to 12 months, cumulative 
rates of anti-etanercept antibodies were approximately 6% of subjects with rheumatoid arthritis, 7.5% 
of subjects with psoriatic arthritis, 2% of subjects with ankylosing spondylitis, 7% of subjects with 
psoriasis, 9.7% of subjects with paediatric psoriasis, and 4.8% of subjects with juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis.  
The proportion of subjects who developed antibodies to etanercept in longer-term trials (of up to 
3.5 years) increases over time, as expected. However, due to their transient nature, the incidence of 
antibodies detected at each assessment point was typically less than 7% in rheumatoid arthritis 
subjects and psoriasis subjects. 
In a long-term psoriasis study in which patients received 50 mg twice weekly for 96 weeks, the 
incidence of antibodies observed at each assessment point was up to approximately 9%. 
Paediatric population 
Paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
The safety and efficacy of Enbrel were assessed in a two-part study in 69 children with 
polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis who had a variety of juvenile idiopathic arthritis onset 
types (polyarthritis, pauciarthritis, systemic onset). Patients aged 4 to 17 years with moderately to 
severely active polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis refractory to, or intolerant of, 
methotrexate were enrolled; patients remained on a stable dose of a single nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drug and/or prednisone (< 0.2 mg/kg/day or 10 mg maximum). In part 1, all patients 
received 0.4 mg/kg (maximum 25 mg per dose) Enbrel subcutaneously twice weekly. In part 2, 
patients with a clinical response at day 90 were randomised to remain on Enbrel or receive placebo for 
four months and assessed for disease flare. Responses were measured using the ACR Pedi 30 , defined 
as ≥ 30% improvement in at least three of six and ≥ 30% worsening in no more than one of six JRA 
core set criteria, including active joint count, limitation of motion, physician and patient/parent global 
assessments, functional assessment, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR). Disease flare was 
defined as a ≥ 30% worsening in three of six JRA core set criteria and ≥ 30% improvement in not 
more than one of the six JRA core set criteria and a minimum of two active joints. 
In part 1 of the study, 51 of 69 (74%) patients demonstrated a clinical response and entered part 2. In 
part 2, 6 of 25 (24%) patients remaining on Enbrel experienced a disease flare compared to 20 of 
26 (77%) patients receiving placebo (p=0.007). From the start of part 2, the median time to flare was 
≥ 116 days for patients who received Enbrel and 28 days for patients who received placebo. Of 
patients who demonstrated a clinical response at 90 days and entered part 2 of the study, some of the 
patients remaining on Enbrel continued to improve from month 3 through month 7, while those who 
received placebo did not improve. 
In an open-label, safety extension study, 58 paediatric patients from the above study (from the age of 
4 years at time of enrollment) continued to receive Enbrel for up to 10 years. Rates of serious adverse 
events and serious infections did not increase with long-term exposure. 
Long-term safety of Enbrel monotherapy (n=103), Enbrel plus methotrexate (n=294), or methotrexate 
monotherapy (n=197) were assessed for up to 3 years in a registry of 594 children aged 2 to 18 years 
with juvenile idiopathic arthritis, 39 of whom were 2 to 3 years of age. Overall, infections were more 
commonly reported in patients treated with etanercept compared to methotrexate alone (3.8 versus 
2%), and the infections associated with etanercept use were of a more severe nature. 
In another open-label single-arm study (n=127), 60 patients with extended oligoarthritis (EO) 
(15 patients aged 2 to 4, 23 patients aged 5 to 11 and 22 patients aged 12 to 17 years old), 38 patients 
with enthesitis-related arthritis (12 to 17 years old), and 29 patients with psoriatic arthritis (12 to 
17 years old) were treated with Enbrel at a dose of 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 50 mg per dose) 
administered weekly for 12 weeks. In each of the JIA subtypes, the majority of patients met ACR Pedi 
30 criteria and demonstrated clinical improvement in secondary endpoints such as number of tender 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
joints and physician global assessment. The safety profile was consistent with that observed in other 
JIA studies.  
Of the 127 patients in the parent study, 109 participated in the open-label extension study and were 
followed for an additional 8 years for a total of up to 10 years. At the end of the extension study, 
84/109 (77%) patients had completed the study; 27 (25%) while actively taking Enbrel, 7 (6%) had 
withdrawn from treatment due to low/inactive disease; 5 (5%) had re-started Enbrel following an 
earlier withdrawal from treatment; and 45 (41%) had stopped Enbrel (but remained under 
observation); 25/109 (23%) patients permanently discontinued from the study. Improvements in 
clinical status achieved in the parent study were generally maintained for all efficacy endpoints during 
the entire follow-up period. Patients actively taking Enbrel could enter an optional withdrawal-
retreatment period once during the extension study based on investigator’s judgement of clinical 
response. 30 patients entered the withdrawal period. 17 patients were reported to have a flare (defined 
as ≥ 30% worsening in at least 3 of the 6 ACR Pedi components with ≥ 30% improvement in not more 
than 1 of the remaining 6 components and a minimum of 2 active joints); median time to flare after 
Enbrel withdrawal was 190 days. 13 patients were re-treated and the median time to re-treatment from 
withdrawal was estimated as 274 days. Due to the small number of data points, these results should be 
interpreted with caution. 
The safety profile was consistent with that observed in the parent study. 
Studies have not been done in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis to assess the effects of 
continued Enbrel therapy in patients who do not respond within 3 months of initiating Enbrel therapy. 
Additionally, studies have not been conducted to assess the effects of reducing the recommended dose 
of Enbrel following its long-term use in patients with JIA. 
Paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
The efficacy of Enbrel was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in 211 
paediatric patients aged 4 to 17 years with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis (as defined by an sPGA 
score ≥ 3, involving ≥ 10% of the BSA, and PASI ≥ 12). Eligible patients had a history of receiving 
phototherapy or systemic therapy, or were inadequately controlled on topical therapy. 
Patients received Enbrel 0.8 mg/kg (up to 50 mg) or placebo once weekly for 12 weeks. At week 12, 
more patients randomised to Enbrel had positive efficacy responses (e.g., PASI 75) than those 
randomised to placebo. 
Paediatric Plaque Psoriasis Outcomes at 12 Weeks 
PASI 75, n (%) 
PASI 50, n (%) 
Enbrel 
0.8 mg/kg Once 
Weekly 
(N = 106) 
60 (57%)a 
79 (75%)a 
sPGA “clear” or “minimal”, n (%) 
Abbreviation: sPGA-static Physician Global Assessment 
a.  p < 0.0001 compared with placebo 
56 (53%)a 
Placebo 
(N = 105) 
12 (11%) 
24 (23%) 
14 (13%) 
After the 12-week double-blind treatment period, all patients received Enbrel 0.8 mg/kg (up to 50 mg) 
once weekly for additional 24 weeks. Responses observed during the open-label period were similar to 
those observed in the double-blind period. 
During a randomised withdrawal period, significantly more patients re-randomised to placebo 
experienced disease relapse (loss of PASI 75 response) compared with patients re-randomised to 
Enbrel. With continued therapy, responses were maintained up to 48 weeks.  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The long-term safety and effectiveness of Enbrel 0.8 mg/kg (up to 50 mg) once weekly was assessed 
in an open-label extension study of 181 paediatric subjects with plaque psoriasis for up to 2 years 
beyond the 48 week study discussed above. Long-term experience with Enbrel was generally 
comparable to the original 48-week study and did not reveal any new safety findings.  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Etanercept serum values were determined by an Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) 
method, which may detect ELISA-reactive degradation products, as well as the parent compound. 
Absorption 
Etanercept is slowly absorbed from the site of subcutaneous injection, reaching maximum 
concentration approximately 48 hours after a single dose. The absolute bioavailability is 76%. With 
twice-weekly doses, it is anticipated that steady-state concentrations are approximately twice as high 
as those observed after single doses. After a single subcutaneous dose of 25 mg Enbrel, the average 
maximum serum concentration observed in healthy volunteers was 1.65 ± 0.66 µg/ml, and the area 
under the curve was 235 ± 96.6 µg•hr/ml.  
Mean serum concentration profiles at steady state in treated RA patients were Cmax of 2.4 mg/l vs. 
2.6 mg/l, Cmin of 1.2 mg/l vs. 1.4 mg/l, and partial AUC of 297 mgh/l vs. 316 mgh/l for 50 mg Enbrel 
once weekly (n=21) vs. 25 mg Enbrel twice weekly (n=16), respectively. In an open-label, single-
dose, two-treatment, crossover study in healthy volunteers, etanercept administered as a single 
50 mg/ml injection was found to be bioequivalent to two simultaneous injections of 25 mg/ml. 
In a population pharmacokinetics analysis in ankylosing spondylitis patients, the etanercept steady 
state AUCs were 466 µg•hr/ml and 474 µg•hr/ml for 50 mg Enbrel once weekly (N= 154) and 25 mg 
twice weekly (N = 148), respectively. 
Distribution 
A biexponential curve is required to describe the concentration time curve of etanercept. The central 
volume of distribution of etanercept is 7.6 l, while the volume of distribution at steady-state is 10.4 l. 
Elimination 
Etanercept is cleared slowly from the body. The half-life is long, approximately 70 hours. Clearance is 
approximately 0.066 l/hr in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, somewhat lower than the value of 
0.11 l/hr observed in healthy volunteers. Additionally, the pharmacokinetics of Enbrel in rheumatoid 
arthritis patients, ankylosing spondylitis and plaque psoriasis patients are similar. 
There is no apparent pharmacokinetic difference between males and females. 
Linearity 
Dose proportionality has not been formally evaluated, but there is no apparent saturation of clearance 
across the dosing range. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Although there is elimination of radioactivity in urine after administration of radiolabelled etanercept 
to patients and volunteers, increased etanercept concentrations were not observed in patients with 
acute renal failure. The presence of renal impairment should not require a change in dosage. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
Increased etanercept concentrations were not observed in patients with acute hepatic failure. The 
presence of hepatic impairment should not require a change in dosage. 
Elderly 
The impact of advanced age was studied in the population pharmacokinetic analysis of etanercept 
serum concentrations. Clearance and volume estimates in patients aged 65 to 87 years were similar to 
estimates in patients less than 65 years of age. 
Paediatric population 
Paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
In a polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis trial with Enbrel, 69 patients (aged 4 to 17 years) 
were administered 0.4 mg Enbrel/kg twice weekly for three months. Serum concentration profiles 
were similar to those seen in adult rheumatoid arthritis patients. The youngest children (4 years of age) 
had reduced clearance (increased clearance when normalised by weight) compared with older children 
(12 years of age) and adults. Simulation of dosing suggests that while older children (10-17 years of 
age) will have serum levels close to those seen in adults, younger children will have appreciably lower 
levels. 
Paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
Patients with paediatric plaque psoriasis (aged 4 to 17 years) were administered 0.8 mg/kg (up to a 
maximum dose of 50 mg per week) of etanercept once weekly for up to 48 weeks. The mean serum 
steady-state trough concentrations ranged from 1.6 to 2.1 mcg/ml at weeks 12, 24, and 48. These mean 
concentrations in patients with paediatric plaque psoriasis were similar to the concentrations observed 
in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (treated with 0.4 mg/kg etanercept twice weekly, up to 
maximum dose of 50 mg per week). These mean concentrations were similar to those seen in adult 
patients with plaque psoriasis treated with 25 mg etanercept twice-weekly. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In the toxicological studies with Enbrel, no dose-limiting or target organ toxicity was evident. Enbrel 
was considered to be non-genotoxic from a battery of in vitro and in vivo studies. Carcinogenicity 
studies, and standard assessments of fertility and postnatal toxicity, were not performed with Enbrel 
due to the development of neutralising antibodies in rodents. 
Enbrel did not induce lethality or notable signs of toxicity in mice or rats following a single 
subcutaneous dose of 2000 mg/kg or a single intravenous dose of 1000 mg/kg. Enbrel did not elicit 
dose-limiting or target organ toxicity in cynomolgus monkeys following twice weekly subcutaneous 
administration for 4 or 26 consecutive weeks at a dose (15 mg/kg) that resulted in AUC-based serum 
drug concentrations that were over 27-fold higher than that obtained in humans at the recommended 
dose of 25 mg. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Powder 
Mannitol (E421) 
Sucrose 
Trometamol 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
4 years. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 6 hours at temperatures of up to 
25°C after reconstitution. From a microbiological point of view, the reconstituted medicinal product 
should be used immediately. If not used immediately, storage times and conditions prior to use are the 
responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer than 6 hours at temperatures of up to 
25°C, unless reconstitution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Enbrel may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 25°C for a single period of up to four 
weeks; after which, it should not be refrigerated again. Enbrel should be discarded if not used within 
four weeks of removal from refrigeration. 
For storage conditions of the reconstituted medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Clear glass vial (2 ml, type I glass) with rubber stoppers, aluminium seals, and flip-off plastic caps. 
Cartons contain 4 vials of Enbrel with 8 alcohol swabs. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Instructions for use and handling 
Enbrel is reconstituted with 1 ml water for injections before use and administered by subcutaneous 
injection. Enbrel contains no antibacterial preservative, and therefore, solutions prepared with water 
for injections should be administered as soon as possible and within 6 hours following reconstitution. 
The solution should be clear and colourless to pale yellow or pale brown, with no lumps, flakes or 
particles. Some white foam may remain in the vial – this is normal. Enbrel should not be used if all the 
powder in the vial is not dissolved within 10 minutes. If this is the case, start again with another vial. 
Comprehensive instructions for the preparation and administration of the reconstituted Enbrel vial are 
given in the package leaflet, section 7, “Instructions for use.” 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/99/126/002 
9.  DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 03 February 2000 
Date of last renewal: 26 November 2009 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enbrel 25 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each vial contains 25 mg of etanercept. 
Etanercept is a human tumour necrosis factor receptor p75 Fc fusion protein produced by recombinant 
DNA technology in a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) mammalian expression system.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder and solvent for solution for injection (powder for injection). 
The powder is white. The solvent is a clear, colourless liquid. 
4.  CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Enbrel in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe active 
rheumatoid arthritis in adults when the response to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, including 
methotrexate (unless contraindicated), has been inadequate. 
Enbrel can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued 
treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate. 
Enbrel is also indicated in the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults 
not previously treated with methotrexate. 
Enbrel, alone or in combination with methotrexate, has been shown to reduce the rate of progression 
of joint damage as measured by X-ray and to improve physical function. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Treatment of polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative) and extended oligoarthritis in 
children and adolescents from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to, or who have 
proved intolerant of, methotrexate.  
Treatment of psoriatic arthritis in adolescents from the age of 12 years who have had an inadequate 
response to, or who have proved intolerant of, methotrexate. 
Treatment of enthesitis-related arthritis in adolescents from the age of 12 years who have had an 
inadequate response to, or who have proved intolerant of, conventional therapy. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when the response to previous 
disease-modifying antirheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. Enbrel has been shown to improve 
physical function in patients with psoriatic arthritis, and to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral 
joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease. 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have had an inadequate response to 
conventional therapy. 
Non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
Treatment of adults with severe non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis with objective signs of 
inflammation as indicated by elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) and/or magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) evidence, who have had an inadequate response to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
(NSAIDs). 
Plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who failed to respond to, or who have a 
contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy, including ciclosporin, methotrexate or 
psoralen and ultraviolet-A light (PUVA) (see section 5.1). 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of chronic severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents from the age of 6 years who 
are inadequately controlled by, or are intolerant to, other systemic therapies or phototherapies. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Enbrel treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, 
ankylosing spondylitis, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis, plaque psoriasis or paediatric plaque 
psoriasis. Patients treated with Enbrel should be given the Patient Card. 
Enbrel is available in strengths of 10, 25 and 50 mg. 
Posology 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
25 mg Enbrel administered twice weekly is the recommended dose. Alternatively, 50 mg administered 
once weekly has been shown to be safe and effective (see section 5.1). 
Psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis and non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
The recommended dose is 25 mg Enbrel administered twice weekly, or 50 mg administered once 
weekly. 
For all of the above indications, available data suggest that a clinical response is usually achieved 
within 12 weeks of treatment. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not 
responding within this time period. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Plaque psoriasis 
The recommended dose of Enbrel is 25 mg administered twice weekly or 50 mg administered once 
weekly. Alternatively, 50 mg given twice weekly may be used for up to 12 weeks followed, if 
necessary, by a dose of 25 mg twice weekly or 50 mg once weekly. Treatment with Enbrel should 
continue until remission is achieved, for up to 24 weeks. Continuous therapy beyond 24 weeks may be 
appropriate for some adult patients (see section 5.1). Treatment should be discontinued in patients who 
show no response after 12 weeks. If re-treatment with Enbrel is indicated, the same guidance on 
treatment duration should be followed. The dose should be 25 mg twice weekly or 50 mg once 
weekly.  
Special populations 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required. 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required. Posology and administration are the same as for adults 18-64 years of 
age. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Enbrel in children aged less than 2 years has not been established. 
No data are available. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis  
The recommended dose is 0.4 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 25 mg per dose), given twice weekly as a 
subcutaneous injection with an interval of 3-4 days between doses or 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 
50 mg per dose) given once weekly. Discontinuation of treatment should be considered in patients 
who show no response after 4 months. 
The 10 mg vial strength may be more appropriate for administration to children with JIA below the 
weight of 25 kg. 
No formal clinical trials have been conducted in children aged 2 to 3 years. However, limited safety 
data from a patient registry suggest that the safety profile in children from 2 to 3 years of age is similar 
to that seen in adults and children aged 4 years and older, when dosed every week with 0.8 mg/kg 
subcutaneously (see section 5.1). 
There is generally no applicable use of Enbrel in children aged below 2 years in the indication juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis (age 6 years and above) 
The recommended dose is 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 50 mg per dose) once weekly for up to 
24 weeks. Treatment should be discontinued in patients who show no response after 12 weeks. 
If re-treatment with Enbrel is indicated, the above guidance on treatment duration should be followed. 
The dose should be 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 50 mg per dose) once weekly. 
There is generally no applicable use of Enbrel in children aged below 6 years in the indication plaque 
psoriasis. 
Method of administration 
Enbrel is administered by subcutaneous injection. Enbrel powder for solution must be reconstituted in 
1 ml of solvent before use (see section 6.6). 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comprehensive instructions for the preparation and administration of the reconstituted Enbrel vial are 
given in the package leaflet, section 7, "Instructions for use." Detailed instructions on unintentional 
dosing or scheduling variations, including missed doses, are provided in section 3 of the package 
leaflet. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Sepsis or risk of sepsis. 
Treatment with Enbrel should not be initiated in patients with active infections, including chronic or 
localised infections. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the brand name and batch 
number of the administered product should be clearly recorded (or stated) in the patient file. 
Infections 
Patients should be evaluated for infections before, during, and after treatment with Enbrel, taking into 
consideration that the mean elimination half-life of etanercept is approximately 70 hours (range 7 to 
300 hours). 
Serious infections, sepsis, tuberculosis, and opportunistic infections, including invasive fungal 
infections, listeriosis and legionellosis, have been reported with the use of Enbrel (see section 4.8). 
These infections were due to bacteria, mycobacteria, fungi, viruses and parasites (including protozoa). 
In some cases, particular fungal and other opportunistic infections have not been recognised, resulting 
in delay of appropriate treatment and sometimes death. In evaluating patients for infections, the 
patient’s risk for relevant opportunistic infections (e.g., exposure to endemic mycoses) should be 
considered.  
Patients who develop a new infection while undergoing treatment with Enbrel should be monitored 
closely. Administration of Enbrel should be discontinued if a patient develops a serious infection. The 
safety and efficacy of Enbrel in patients with chronic infections have not been evaluated. Physicians 
should exercise caution when considering the use of Enbrel in patients with a history of recurring or 
chronic infections or with underlying conditions that may predispose patients to infections, such as 
advanced or poorly controlled diabetes. 
Tuberculosis 
Cases of active tuberculosis, including miliary tuberculosis and tuberculosis with extra-pulmonary 
location, have been reported in patients treated with Enbrel. 
Before starting treatment with Enbrel, all patients must be evaluated for both active and inactive 
(‘latent’) tuberculosis. This evaluation should include a detailed medical history with personal history 
of tuberculosis or possible previous contact with tuberculosis and previous and/or current 
immunosuppressive therapy. Appropriate screening tests, i.e., tuberculin skin test and chest X-ray, 
should be performed in all patients (local recommendations may apply). It is recommended that the 
conduct of these tests should be recorded in the Patient Card. Prescribers are reminded of the risk of 
false negative tuberculin skin test results, especially in patients who are severely ill or 
immunocompromised. 
If active tuberculosis is diagnosed, Enbrel therapy must not be initiated. If inactive (‘latent’) 
tuberculosis is diagnosed, treatment for latent tuberculosis must be started with anti-tuberculosis 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
therapy before the initiation of Enbrel, and in accordance with local recommendations. In this 
situation, the benefit/risk balance of Enbrel therapy should be very carefully considered. 
All patients should be informed to seek medical advice if signs/symptoms suggestive of tuberculosis 
(e.g., persistent cough, wasting/weight loss, low-grade fever) appear during or after Enbrel treatment. 
Hepatitis B reactivation 
Reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who were previously infected with the hepatitis B virus (HBV) 
and had received concomitant TNF-antagonists, including Enbrel, has been reported. This includes 
reports of reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who were anti-HBc positive but HBsAg negative. 
Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with Enbrel. For patients who 
test positive for HBV infection, consultation with a physician with expertise in the treatment of 
hepatitis B is recommended. Caution should be exercised when administering Enbrel in patients 
previously infected with HBV. These patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of active 
HBV infection throughout therapy and for several weeks following termination of therapy. Adequate 
data from treating patients infected with HBV with anti-viral therapy in conjunction with 
TNF-antagonist therapy are not available. In patients who develop HBV infection, Enbrel should be 
stopped and effective anti-viral therapy with appropriate supportive treatment should be initiated. 
Worsening of hepatitis C 
There have been reports of worsening of hepatitis C in patients receiving Enbrel. Enbrel should be 
used with caution in patients with a history of hepatitis C. 
Concurrent treatment with anakinra  
Concurrent administration of Enbrel and anakinra has been associated with an increased risk of serious 
infections and neutropenia compared to Enbrel alone. This combination has not demonstrated 
increased clinical benefit. Thus, the combined use of Enbrel and anakinra is not recommended (see 
sections 4.5 and 4.8). 
Concurrent treatment with abatacept  
In clinical studies, concurrent administration of abatacept and Enbrel resulted in increased incidences 
of serious adverse events. This combination has not demonstrated increased clinical benefit; such use 
is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Allergic reactions 
Allergic reactions associated with Enbrel administration have been reported commonly. Allergic 
reactions have included angioedema and urticaria; serious reactions have occurred. If any serious 
allergic or anaphylactic reaction occurs, Enbrel therapy should be discontinued immediately and 
appropriate therapy initiated. 
The rubber tip cap (closure) of the diluent syringe contains latex (dry natural rubber) that may cause 
hypersensitivity reactions when handled by, or when Enbrel is administered to, persons with known or 
possible latex sensitivity. 
Immunosuppression 
The possibility exists for TNF-antagonists, including Enbrel, to affect host defences against infections 
and malignancies since TNF mediates inflammation and modulates cellular immune responses. In a 
study of 49 adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with Enbrel, there was no evidence of 
depression of delayed-type hypersensitivity, depression of immunoglobulin levels, or change in 
enumeration of effector cell populations. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Two juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients developed varicella infection and signs and symptoms of 
aseptic meningitis, which resolved without sequelae. Patients with a significant exposure to varicella 
virus should temporarily discontinue Enbrel therapy and be considered for prophylactic treatment with 
Varicella Zoster Immune Globulin. 
The safety and efficacy of Enbrel in patients with immunosuppression have not been evaluated. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
Solid and haematopoietic malignancies (excluding skin cancers) 
Reports of various malignancies (including breast and lung carcinoma and lymphoma) have been 
received in the postmarketing period (see section 4.8).  
In the controlled portions of clinical trials of TNF-antagonists, more cases of lymphoma have been 
observed among patients receiving a TNF-antagonist compared with control patients. However, the 
occurrence was rare, and the follow-up period of placebo patients was shorter than for patients 
receiving TNF-antagonist therapy. In the postmarketing setting, cases of leukaemia have been reported 
in patients treated with TNF-antagonists. There is an increased background risk for lymphoma and 
leukaemia in rheumatoid arthritis patients with long-standing, highly active, inflammatory disease, 
which complicates risk estimation. 
Based on current knowledge, a possible risk for the development of lymphomas, leukaemia or other 
haematopoietic or solid malignancies in patients treated with a TNF-antagonist cannot be excluded. 
Caution should be exercised when considering TNF-antagonist therapy for patients with a history of 
malignancy or when considering continuing treatment in patients who develop a malignancy. 
Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults (up to 
22 years of age) treated with TNF-antagonists (initiation of therapy ≤ 18 years of age), including 
Enbrel, in the postmarketing setting. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas. The other cases 
represented a variety of different malignancies and included rare malignancies typically associated 
with immunosuppression. A risk for the development of malignancies in children and adolescents 
treated with TNF-antagonists cannot be excluded. 
Skin cancers 
Melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) have been reported in patients treated with 
TNF-antagonists, including Enbrel. Postmarketing cases of Merkel cell carcinoma have been reported 
very infrequently in patients treated with Enbrel. Periodic skin examination is recommended for all 
patients, particularly those with risk factors for skin cancer. 
Combining the results of controlled clinical trials, more cases of NMSC were observed in patients 
receiving Enbrel compared with control patients, particularly in patients with psoriasis.  
Vaccinations 
Live vaccines should not be given concurrently with Enbrel. No data are available on the secondary 
transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving Enbrel. In a double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, randomised clinical study in adult patients with psoriatic arthritis, 184 patients also 
received a multivalent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine at week 4. In this study, most psoriatic 
arthritis patients receiving Enbrel were able to mount effective B-cell immune response to 
pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine, but titres in aggregate were moderately lower, and few patients 
had two-fold rises in titres compared to patients not receiving Enbrel. The clinical significance of this 
is unknown. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Autoantibody formation 
Treatment with Enbrel may result in the formation of autoimmune antibodies (see section 4.8). 
Haematologic reactions 
Rare cases of pancytopenia and very rare cases of aplastic anaemia, some with fatal outcome, have 
been reported in patients treated with Enbrel. Caution should be exercised in patients being treated 
with Enbrel who have a previous history of blood dyscrasias. All patients and parents/caregivers 
should be advised that if the patient develops signs and symptoms suggestive of blood dyscrasias or 
infections (e.g., persistent fever, sore throat, bruising, bleeding, paleness) whilst on Enbrel, they 
should seek immediate medical advice. Such patients should be investigated urgently, including full 
blood count; if blood dyscrasias are confirmed, Enbrel should be discontinued. 
Neurological disorders 
There have been rare reports of CNS demyelinating disorders in patients treated with Enbrel (see 
section 4.8). Additionally, there have been rare reports of peripheral demyelinating polyneuropathies 
(including Guillain-Barré syndrome, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, 
demyelinating polyneuropathy, and multifocal motor neuropathy). Although no clinical trials have 
been performed evaluating Enbrel therapy in patients with multiple sclerosis, clinical trials of other 
TNF antagonists in patients with multiple sclerosis have shown increases in disease activity. A careful 
risk/benefit evaluation, including a neurologic assessment, is recommended when prescribing Enbrel 
to patients with pre-existing or recent onset of demyelinating disease, or to those who are considered 
to have an increased risk of developing demyelinating disease. 
Combination therapy 
In a controlled clinical trial of two years duration in rheumatoid arthritis patients, the combination of 
Enbrel and methotrexate did not result in unexpected safety findings, and the safety profile of Enbrel 
when given in combination with methotrexate was similar to the profiles reported in studies of Enbrel 
and methotrexate alone. Long-term studies to assess the safety of the combination are ongoing. The 
long-term safety of Enbrel in combination with other disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs 
(DMARD) has not been established. 
The use of Enbrel in combination with other systemic therapies or phototherapy for the treatment of 
psoriasis has not been studied. 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
Based on pharmacokinetic data (see section 5.2), no dose adjustment is needed in patients with renal 
or hepatic impairment; clinical experience in such patients is limited. 
Congestive heart failure (Cardiac failure congestive) 
Physicians should use caution when using Enbrel in patients who have congestive heart failure (CHF). 
There have been postmarketing reports of worsening of CHF, with and without identifiable 
precipitating factors, in patients taking Enbrel. There have also been rare (< 0.1%) reports of new 
onset CHF, including CHF in patients without known pre-existing cardiovascular disease. Some of 
these patients have been under 50 years of age. Two large clinical trials evaluating the use of Enbrel in 
the treatment of CHF were terminated early due to lack of efficacy. Although not conclusive, data 
from one of these trials suggest a possible tendency toward worsening CHF in those patients assigned 
to Enbrel treatment.  
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alcoholic hepatitis 
In a phase II randomised placebo-controlled study of 48 hospitalised patients treated with Enbrel or 
placebo for moderate to severe alcoholic hepatitis, Enbrel was not efficacious, and the mortality rate in 
patients treated with Enbrel was significantly higher after 6 months. Consequently, Enbrel should not 
be used in patients for the treatment of alcoholic hepatitis. Physicians should use caution when using 
Enbrel in patients who also have moderate to severe alcoholic hepatitis. 
Wegener's granulomatosis 
A placebo-controlled trial, in which 89 adult patients were treated with Enbrel in addition to standard 
therapy (including cyclophosphamide or methotrexate, and glucocorticoids) for a median duration of 
25 months, has not shown Enbrel to be an effective treatment for Wegener’s granulomatosis. The 
incidence of non-cutaneous malignancies of various types was significantly higher in patients treated 
with Enbrel than in the control group. Enbrel is not recommended for the treatment of Wegener’s 
granulomatosis. 
Hypoglycaemia in patients treated for diabetes 
There have been reports of hypoglycaemia following initiation of Enbrel in patients receiving 
medication for diabetes, necessitating a reduction in anti-diabetic medication in some of these patients. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
In the Phase 3 studies in rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis, no overall 
differences in adverse events, serious adverse events, and serious infections in patients age 65 or older 
who received Enbrel were observed compared with younger patients. However, caution should be 
exercised when treating the elderly and particular attention paid with respect to occurrence of 
infections. 
Paediatric population 
Vaccinations 
It is recommended that paediatric patients, if possible, be brought up to date with all immunisations in 
agreement with current immunisation guidelines prior to initiating Enbrel therapy (see Vaccinations, 
above). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Concurrent treatment with anakinra  
Adult patients treated with Enbrel and anakinra were observed to have a higher rate of serious 
infection when compared with patients treated with either Enbrel or anakinra alone (historical data). 
In addition, in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in adult patients receiving background 
methotrexate, patients treated with Enbrel and anakinra were observed to have a higher rate of serious 
infections (7%) and neutropenia than patients treated with Enbrel (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). The 
combination Enbrel and anakinra has not demonstrated increased clinical benefit, and is therefore not 
recommended. 
Concurrent treatment with abatacept  
In clinical studies, concurrent administration of abatacept and Enbrel resulted in increased incidences 
of serious adverse events. This combination has not demonstrated increased clinical benefit; such use 
is not recommended (see section 4.4).  
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Concurrent treatment with sulfasalazine  
In a clinical study of adult patients who were receiving established doses of sulfasalazine, to which 
Enbrel was added, patients in the combination group experienced a statistically significant decrease in 
mean white blood cell counts in comparison to groups treated with Enbrel or sulfasalazine alone. The 
clinical significance of this interaction is unknown. Physicians should use caution when considering 
combination therapy with sulfasalazine. 
Non-interactions 
In clinical trials, no interactions have been observed when Enbrel was administered with 
glucocorticoids, salicylates (except sulfasalazine), nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), 
analgesics, or methotrexate. See section 4.4 for vaccination advice. 
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions were observed in studies with 
methotrexate, digoxin or warfarin. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should consider the use of appropriate contraception to avoid 
becoming pregnant during Enbrel therapy and for three weeks after discontinuation of therapy. 
Pregnancy  
Developmental toxicity studies performed in rats and rabbits have revealed no evidence of harm to the 
foetus or neonatal rat due to etanercept. The effects of etanercept on pregnancy outcomes have been 
investigated in two observational cohort studies. A higher rate of major birth defects was observed in 
one observational study comparing pregnancies exposed to etanercept (n=370) during the first 
trimester with pregnancies not exposed to etanercept or other TNF-antagonists (n=164) (adjusted odds 
ratio 2.4, 95% CI: 1.0-5.5). The types of major birth defects were consistent with those most 
commonly reported in the general population and no particular pattern of abnormalities was identified. 
No change in the rate of spontaneous abortion, stillbirth, or minor malformations was observed. In 
another observational multi-country registry study comparing the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes 
in women exposed to etanercept during the first 90 days of pregnancy (n=425) to those exposed to 
non-biologic drugs (n=3497), there was no observed increased risk of major birth defects (crude odds 
ratio [OR]= 1.22, 95% CI: 0.79-1.90; adjusted OR = 0.96, 95% CI: 0.58-1.60 after adjusting for 
country, maternal disease, parity, maternal age and smoking in early pregnancy). This study also 
showed no increased risks of minor birth defects, preterm birth, stillbirth, or infections in the first year 
of life for infants born to women exposed to etanercept during pregnancy. Enbrel should only be used 
during pregnancy if clearly needed. 
Etanercept crosses the placenta and has been detected in the serum of infants born to female patients 
treated with Enbrel during pregnancy. The clinical impact of this is unknown, however, infants may be 
at increased risk of infection. Administration of live vaccines to infants for 16 weeks after the 
mother’s last dose of Enbrel is generally not recommended. 
Breast-feeding 
In lactating rats following subcutaneous administration, etanercept was excreted in the milk and 
detected in the serum of pups. Limited information from the published literature indicates etanercept 
has been detected at low levels in human milk. Etanercept could be considered for use during 
breast-feeding taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy 
for the woman. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
While systemic exposure in a breastfed infant is expected to be low because etanercept is largely 
degraded in the gastrointestinal tract, limited data regarding systemic exposure in the breastfed infant 
are available. Therefore, the administration of live vaccines (e.g., BCG) to a breastfed infant when the 
mother is receiving etanercept could be considered 16 weeks after stopping breast-feeding (or at an 
earlier timepoint if the infant etanercept serum levels are undetectable).  
Fertility 
Preclinical data about peri- and postnatal toxicity of etanercept and of effects of etanercept on fertility 
and general reproductive performance are not available. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Enbrel has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are injection site reactions (such as pain, swelling, 
itching, reddening and bleeding at the puncture site), infections (such as upper respiratory infections, 
bronchitis, bladder infections and skin infections), headache, allergic reactions, development of 
autoantibodies, itching, and fever. 
Serious adverse reactions have also been reported for Enbrel. TNF-antagonists, such as Enbrel, affect 
the immune system and their use may affect the body’s defenses against infection and cancer. Serious 
infections affect fewer than 1 in 100 patients treated with Enbrel. Reports have included fatal and 
life-threatening infections and sepsis. Various malignancies have also been reported with use of 
Enbrel, including cancers of the breast, lung, skin and lymph glands (lymphoma).   
Serious haematological, neurological and autoimmune reactions have also been reported. These 
include rare reports of pancytopenia and very rare reports of aplastic anaemia. Central and peripheral 
demyelinating events have been seen rarely and very rarely, respectively, with Enbrel use. There have 
been rare reports of lupus, lupus-related conditions, and vasculitis. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following list of adverse reactions is based on experience from clinical trials and on 
postmarketing experience. 
Within the organ system classes, adverse reactions are listed under headings of frequency (number of 
patients expected to experience the reaction), using the following categories: very common (≥ 1/10); 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very 
rare (< 1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
System Organ 
Class 
Very 
Common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to 
< 1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000 
Very Rare 
< 1/10,000 
Infections and 
infestations 
Infection 
(including 
upper 
respiratory 
tract 
infection, 
bronchitis, 
cystitis, 
Serious 
infections 
(including 
pneumonia, 
cellulitis, 
arthritis 
bacterial, sepsis 
and parasitic 
Tuberculosis, 
opportunistic 
infection (including 
invasive fungal, 
protozoal, bacterial, 
atypical 
mycobacterial, viral 
infections, and 
41 
Not Known 
(Cannot be 
Estimated from 
Available Data) 
Hepatitis B 
reactivation, listeria 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ 
Class 
Very 
Common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to 
< 1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000 
Very Rare 
< 1/10,000 
Not Known 
(Cannot be 
Estimated from 
Available Data) 
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified 
(including 
cysts and 
polyps) 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders 
Immune 
system 
disorders 
skin 
infection)* 
infection)* 
Legionella)* 
Non-melanoma 
skin cancers* 
(see section 4.4) 
Malignant melanoma 
(see section 4.4), 
lymphoma, 
leukaemia  
Thrombocytope
nia, anaemia, 
leukopenia, 
neutropenia 
Pancytopenia* 
Aplastic 
anaemia* 
Allergic 
reactions (see 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue 
disorders), 
autoantibody 
formation* 
Vasculitis 
(including anti-
neutrophilic 
cytoplasmic 
antibody positive 
vasculitis) 
Serious 
allergic/anaphylactic 
reactions (including 
angioedema, 
bronchospasm), 
sarcoidosis 
Merkel cell 
carcinoma (see 
section 4.4), 
Kaposi’s sarcoma 
Histiocytosis 
haematophagic 
(macrophage 
activation 
syndrome)* 
Worsening of 
symptoms of 
dermatomyositis 
Nervous 
system 
disorders  
Headache 
Eye disorders  
Cardiac 
disorders  
Respiratory, 
thoracic, and 
mediastinal 
disorders  
Gastrointestina
l disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders  
CNS demyelinating 
events suggestive of 
multiple sclerosis or 
localised 
demyelinating 
conditions, such as 
optic neuritis and 
transverse myelitis 
(see section 4.4), 
peripheral 
demyelinating 
events, including 
Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, chronic 
inflammatory 
demyelinating 
polyneuropathy, 
demyelinating 
polyneuropathy, and 
multifocal motor 
neuropathy (see 
section 4.4), seizure 
New onset cardiac 
failure congestive 
(see section 4.4) 
Interstitial lung 
disease (including 
pneumonitis and 
pulmonary fibrosis)* 
Uveitis, scleritis 
Worsening of 
cardiac failure 
congestive (see 
section 4.4) 
Inflammatory 
bowel disease 
Elevated liver 
enzymes* 
Autoimmune 
hepatitis* 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not Known 
(Cannot be 
Estimated from 
Available Data) 
Very Rare 
< 1/10,000 
Toxic 
epidermal 
necrolysis 
Glomerulonephritis 
System Organ 
Class 
Very 
Common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to 
< 1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders  
Musculoskeleta
l and 
connective 
tissue disorders  
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions  
Pruritus, rash  Angioedema, 
psoriasis 
(including new 
onset or 
worsening and 
pustular, 
primarily palms 
and soles), 
urticaria, 
psoriasiform 
rash 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, cutaneous 
vasculitis (including 
hypersensitivity 
vasculitis), erythema 
multiforme, 
lichenoid reactions  
Cutaneous lupus 
erythematosus, 
subacute cutaneous 
lupus erythematosus, 
lupus-like syndrome 
Pyrexia 
Injection 
site 
reactions 
(including 
bleeding, 
bruising, 
erythema, 
itching, 
pain, 
swelling)* 
*see Description of selected adverse reactions, below. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
One hundred and twenty-nine (129) new malignancies of various types were observed in 4,114 
rheumatoid arthritis patients treated in clinical trials with Enbrel for up to approximately 6 years, 
including 231 patients treated with Enbrel in combination with methotrexate in the 2-year 
active-controlled study. The observed rates and incidences in these clinical trials were similar to those 
expected for the population studied. A total of 2 malignancies were reported in clinical studies of 
approximately 2 years duration involving 240 Enbrel-treated psoriatic arthritis patients. In clinical 
studies conducted for more than 2 years with 351 ankylosing spondylitis patients, 6 malignancies were 
reported in Enbrel-treated patients. In a group of 2,711 plaque psoriasis patients treated with Enbrel in 
double-blind and open-label studies of up to 2.5 years, 30 malignancies and 43 nonmelanoma skin 
cancers were reported. 
In a group of 7,416 patients treated with Enbrel in rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing 
spondylitis and psoriasis clinical trials, 18 lymphomas were reported. 
Reports of various malignancies (including breast and lung carcinoma and lymphoma) have also been 
received in the postmarketing period (see section 4.4). 
Injection site reactions 
Compared to placebo, patients with rheumatic diseases treated with Enbrel had a significantly higher 
incidence of injection site reactions (36% vs. 9%). Injection site reactions usually occurred in the first 
month. Mean duration was approximately 3 to 5 days. No treatment was given for the majority of 
injection site reactions in the Enbrel treatment groups, and the majority of patients who were given 
treatment received topical preparations, such as corticosteroids, or oral antihistamines. Additionally, 
some patients developed recall injection site reactions characterised by a skin reaction at the most 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
recent site of injection, along with the simultaneous appearance of injection site reactions at previous 
injection sites. These reactions were generally transient and did not recur with treatment. 
In controlled trials in patients with plaque psoriasis, approximately 13.6% of patients treated with 
Enbrel developed injection site reactions compared with 3.4% of placebo-treated patients during the 
first 12 weeks of treatment. 
Serious infections 
In placebo-controlled trials, no increase in the incidence of serious infections (fatal, life-threatening, or 
requiring hospitalisation or intravenous antibiotics) was observed. Serious infections occurred in 6.3% 
of rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with Enbrel for up to 48 months. These included abscess (at 
various sites), bacteraemia, bronchitis, bursitis, cellulitis, cholecystitis, diarrhoea, diverticulitis, 
endocarditis (suspected), gastroenteritis, hepatitis B, herpes zoster, leg ulcer, mouth infection, 
osteomyelitis, otitis, peritonitis, pneumonia, pyelonephritis, sepsis, septic arthritis, sinusitis, skin 
infection, skin ulcer, urinary tract infection, vasculitis, and wound infection. In the 2-year 
active-controlled study where patients were treated with either Enbrel alone, methotrexate alone or 
Enbrel in combination with methotrexate, the rates of serious infections were similar among the 
treatment groups. However, it cannot be excluded that the combination of Enbrel with methotrexate 
could be associated with an increase in the rate of infections. 
There were no differences in rates of infection among patients treated with Enbrel and those treated 
with placebo for plaque psoriasis in placebo-controlled trials of up to 24 weeks duration. Serious 
infections experienced by Enbrel-treated patients included cellulitis, gastroenteritis, pneumonia, 
cholecystitis, osteomyelitis, gastritis, appendicitis, Streptococcal fasciitis, myositis, septic shock, 
diverticulitis and abscess. In the double-blind and open-label psoriatic arthritis trials, 1 patient reported 
a serious infection (pneumonia). 
Serious and fatal infections have been reported during use of Enbrel; reported pathogens include 
bacteria, mycobacteria (including tuberculosis), viruses and fungi. Some have occurred within a few 
weeks after initiating treatment with Enbrel in patients who have underlying conditions (e.g., diabetes, 
congestive heart failure, history of active or chronic infections) in addition to their rheumatoid arthritis 
(see section 4.4). Enbrel treatment may increase mortality in patients with established sepsis. 
Opportunistic infections have been reported in association with Enbrel, including invasive fungal, 
parasitic (including protozoal), viral (including herpes zoster), bacterial (including Listeria and 
Legionella), and atypical mycobacterial infections. In a pooled data set of clinical trials, the overall 
incidence of opportunistic infections was 0.09% for the 15,402 subjects who received Enbrel. The 
exposure-adjusted rate was 0.06 events per 100 patient-years. In postmarketing experience, 
approximately half of all of the case reports of opportunistic infections worldwide were invasive 
fungal infections. The most commonly reported invasive fungal infections included Candida, 
Pneumocystis, Aspergillus, and Histoplasma. Invasive fungal infections accounted for more than half 
of the fatalities amongst patients who developed opportunistic infections. The majority of the reports 
with a fatal outcome were in patients with Pneumocystis pneumonia, unspecified systemic fungal 
infections, and aspergillosis (see section 4.4). 
Autoantibodies 
Adult patients had serum samples tested for autoantibodies at multiple timepoints. Of the rheumatoid 
arthritis patients evaluated for antinuclear antibodies (ANA), the percentage of patients who developed 
new positive ANA (≥1:40) was higher in patients treated with Enbrel (11%) than in placebo-treated 
patients (5%). The percentage of patients who developed new positive anti-double-stranded DNA 
antibodies was also higher by radioimmunoassay (15% of patients treated with Enbrel compared to 4% 
of placebo-treated patients) and by Crithidia luciliae assay (3% of patients treated with Enbrel 
compared to none of placebo-treated patients). The proportion of patients treated with Enbrel who 
developed anticardiolipin antibodies was similarly increased compared to placebo-treated patients. 
The impact of long-term treatment with Enbrel on the development of autoimmune diseases is 
unknown. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There have been rare reports of patients, including rheumatoid factor positive patients, who have 
developed other autoantibodies in conjunction with a lupus-like syndrome or rashes that are 
compatible with subacute cutaneous lupus or discoid lupus by clinical presentation and biopsy. 
Pancytopenia and aplastic anaemia 
There have been postmarketing reports of pancytopenia and aplastic anaemia, some of which had fatal 
outcomes (see section 4.4). 
Interstitial lung disease 
In controlled clinical trials of etanercept across all indications, the frequency (incidence proportion) of 
interstitial lung disease in patients receiving etanercept without concomitant methotrexate was 0.06% 
(frequency rare). In the controlled clinical trials that allowed concomitant treatment with etanercept 
and methotrexate, the frequency (incidence proportion) of interstitial lung disease was 0.47% 
(frequency uncommon). There have been postmarketing reports of interstitial lung disease (including 
pneumonitis and pulmonary fibrosis), some of which had fatal outcomes. 
Concurrent treatment with anakinra  
In studies when adult patients received concurrent treatment with Enbrel plus anakinra, a higher rate of 
serious infections compared to Enbrel alone was observed and 2% of patients (3/139) developed 
neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count < 1000/mm3). While neutropenic, one patient developed 
cellulitis that resolved after hospitalisation (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Elevated liver enzymes 
In the double-blind periods of controlled clinical trials of etanercept across all indications, the 
frequency (incidence proportion) of adverse events of elevated liver enzymes in patients receiving 
etanercept without concomitant methotrexate was 0.54% (frequency uncommon). In the double-blind 
periods of controlled clinical trials that allowed concomitant treatment with etanercept and 
methotrexate, the frequency (incidence proportion) of adverse events of elevated liver enzymes was 
4.18% (frequency common). 
Autoimmune hepatitis 
In controlled clinical trials of etanercept across all indications, the frequency (incidence proportion) of 
autoimmune hepatitis in patients receiving etanercept without concomitant methotrexate was 0.02% 
(frequency rare). In the controlled clinical trials that allowed concomitant treatment with etanercept 
and methotrexate, the frequency (incidence proportion) of autoimmune hepatitis was 0.24% 
(frequency uncommon).  
Paediatric population 
Undesirable effects in paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
In general, the adverse events in paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis were similar in 
frequency and type to those seen in adult patients. Differences from adults and other special 
considerations are discussed in the following paragraphs. 
The types of infections seen in clinical trials in juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients aged 2 to 18 years 
were generally mild to moderate and consistent with those commonly seen in outpatient paediatric 
populations. Severe adverse events reported included varicella with signs and symptoms of aseptic 
meningitis, which resolved without sequelae (see also section 4.4), appendicitis, gastroenteritis, 
depression/personality disorder, cutaneous ulcer, oesophagitis/gastritis, group A streptococcal septic 
shock, type I diabetes mellitus, and soft tissue and post-operative wound infection. 
In one study in children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis aged 4 to 17 years, 43 of 69 (62%) children 
experienced an infection while receiving Enbrel during 3 months of the study (part 1, open-label), and 
the frequency and severity of infections was similar in 58 patients completing 12 months of open-label 
extension therapy. The types and proportion of adverse events in juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were similar to those seen in trials of Enbrel in adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and the 
majority were mild. Several adverse events were reported more commonly in 69 juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis patients receiving 3 months of Enbrel compared to the 349 adult rheumatoid arthritis patients. 
These included headache (19% of patients, 1.7 events per patient year), nausea (9%, 1.0 event per 
patient year), abdominal pain (19%, 0.74 events per patient year), and vomiting (13%, 0.74 events per 
patient year). 
There were 4 reports of macrophage activation syndrome in juvenile idiopathic arthritis clinical trials. 
Undesirable effects in paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
In a 48-week study in 211 children aged 4 to 17 years with paediatric plaque psoriasis, the adverse 
events reported were similar to those seen in previous studies in adults with plaque psoriasis. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No dose-limiting toxicities were observed during clinical trials of rheumatoid arthritis patients. The 
highest dose level evaluated has been an intravenous loading dose of 32 mg/m2 followed by 
subcutaneous doses of 16 mg/m2 administered twice weekly. One rheumatoid arthritis patient 
mistakenly self-administered 62 mg Enbrel subcutaneously twice weekly for 3 weeks without 
experiencing undesirable effects. There is no known antidote to Enbrel. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF-α) inhibitors, 
ATC code: L04AB01 
Tumour necrosis factor (TNF) is a dominant cytokine in the inflammatory process of rheumatoid 
arthritis. Elevated levels of TNF are also found in the synovium and psoriatic plaques of patients with 
psoriatic arthritis and in serum and synovial tissue of patients with ankylosing spondylitis. In plaque 
psoriasis, infiltration by inflammatory cells, including T-cells, leads to increased TNF levels in 
psoriatic lesions compared with levels in uninvolved skin. Etanercept is a competitive inhibitor of 
TNF binding to its cell surface receptors, and thereby inhibits the biological activity of TNF. TNF and 
lymphotoxin are pro-inflammatory cytokines that bind to two distinct cell surface receptors: the 
55-kilodalton (p55) and 75-kilodalton (p75) tumour necrosis factor receptors (TNFRs). Both TNFRs 
exist naturally in membrane-bound and soluble forms. Soluble TNFRs are thought to regulate TNF 
biological activity. 
TNF and lymphotoxin exist predominantly as homotrimers, with their biological activity dependent on 
cross-linking of cell surface TNFRs. Dimeric soluble receptors, such as etanercept, possess a higher 
affinity for TNF than monomeric receptors and are considerably more potent competitive inhibitors of 
TNF binding to its cellular receptors. In addition, use of an immunoglobulin Fc region as a fusion 
element in the construction of a dimeric receptor imparts a longer serum half-life. 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mechanism of action 
Much of the joint pathology in rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis and skin pathology in 
plaque psoriasis is mediated by pro-inflammatory molecules that are linked in a network controlled by 
TNF. The mechanism of action of etanercept is thought to be its competitive inhibition of TNF 
binding to cell surface TNFR, preventing TNF-mediated cellular responses by rendering TNF 
biologically inactive. Etanercept may also modulate biologic responses controlled by additional 
downstream molecules (e.g., cytokines, adhesion molecules, or proteinases) that are induced or 
regulated by TNF. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
This section presents data from four randomised controlled trials in adults with rheumatoid arthritis, 
one study in adults with psoriatic arthritis, one study in adults with ankylosing spondylitis, two studies 
in adults with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis, four studies in adults with plaque psoriasis, 
three studies in juvenile idiopathic arthritis and one study in paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis. 
Adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis 
The efficacy of Enbrel was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The 
study evaluated 234 adult patients with active rheumatoid arthritis who had failed therapy with at least 
one but no more than four disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Doses of 10 mg or 
25 mg Enbrel or placebo were administered subcutaneously twice a week for 6 consecutive months. 
The results of this controlled trial were expressed in percentage improvement in rheumatoid arthritis 
using American College of Rheumatology (ACR) response criteria.  
ACR 20 and 50 responses were higher in patients treated with Enbrel at 3 and 6 months than in 
patients treated with placebo (ACR 20: Enbrel 62% and 59%, placebo 23% and 11% at 3 and 
6 months, respectively: ACR 50: Enbrel 41% and 40%, placebo 8% and 5% at months 3 and 6, 
respectively; p < 0.01 Enbrel vs. placebo at all timepoints for both ACR 20 and ACR 50 responses).  
Approximately 15% of subjects who received Enbrel achieved an ACR 70 response at month 3 and 
month 6 compared to fewer than 5% of subjects in the placebo arm. Among patients receiving Enbrel, 
the clinical responses generally appeared within 1 to 2 weeks after initiation of therapy and nearly 
always occurred by 3 months. A dose response was seen; results with 10 mg were intermediate 
between placebo and 25 mg. Enbrel was significantly better than placebo in all components of the 
ACR criteria, as well as other measures of rheumatoid arthritis disease activity not included in the 
ACR response criteria, such as morning stiffness. A Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), which 
included disability, vitality, mental health, general health status, and arthritis-associated health status 
subdomains, was administered every 3 months during the trial. All subdomains of the HAQ were 
improved in patients treated with Enbrel compared to controls at 3 and 6 months.  
After discontinuation of Enbrel, symptoms of arthritis generally returned within a month. 
Re-introduction of treatment with Enbrel after discontinuation of up to 24 months resulted in the same 
magnitudes of responses as patients who received Enbrel without interruption of therapy based on 
results of open-label studies. Continued durable responses have been seen for up to 10 years in 
open-label extension treatment trials when patients received Enbrel without interruption.  
The efficacy of Enbrel was compared to methotrexate in a randomised, active-controlled study with 
blinded radiographic evaluations as a primary endpoint in 632 adult patients with active rheumatoid 
arthritis (< 3 years duration) who had never received treatment with methotrexate. Doses of 10 mg or 
25 mg Enbrel were administered subcutaneously (SC) twice a week for up to 24 months. Methotrexate 
doses were escalated from 7.5 mg/week to a maximum of 20 mg/week over the first 8 weeks of the 
trial and continued for up to 24 months. Clinical improvement, including onset of action within 
2 weeks with Enbrel 25 mg, was similar to that seen in the previous trials and was maintained for up to 
24 months. At baseline, patients had a moderate degree of disability, with mean HAQ scores of 1.4 to 
1.5. Treatment with Enbrel 25 mg resulted in substantial improvement at 12 months, with about 44% 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of patients achieving a normal HAQ score (less than 0.5). This benefit was maintained in Year 2 of 
this study. 
In this study, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in Total 
Sharp Score (TSS) and its components, the erosion score and Joint Space Narrowing (JSN) score. 
Radiographs of hands/wrists and feet were read at baseline and 6, 12, and 24 months. The 10 mg 
Enbrel dose had consistently less effect on structural damage than the 25 mg dose. Enbrel 25 mg was 
significantly superior to methotrexate for erosion scores at both 12 and 24 months. The differences in 
TSS and JSN were not statistically significant between methotrexate and Enbrel 25 mg. The results are 
shown in the figure below. 
Radiographic  Progression:  Comparison  of  Enbrel  vs.  Methotrexate  in  Patients  with  RA  of 
<3 Years Duration 
12 Months
1.3
0.9
0.8
0.4*
0.4 0.4
e
n
i
l
e
s
a
B
m
o
r
f
e
g
n
a
h
C
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
24 Months
2.2
1.3
1.2
0.9
0.6*
0.6
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
TSS Erosions
JSN
TSS
Erosions
JSN
MTX
Enbrel 25 mg
*p < 0.05
In another active-controlled, double-blind, randomised study, clinical efficacy, safety, and 
radiographic progression in RA patients treated with Enbrel alone (25 mg twice weekly), methotrexate 
alone (7.5 to 20 mg weekly, median dose 20 mg), and the combination of Enbrel and methotrexate 
initiated concurrently were compared in 682 adult patients with active rheumatoid arthritis of 6 months 
to 20 years duration (median 5 years) who had a less than satisfactory response to at least 1 
disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) other than methotrexate. 
Patients in the Enbrel in combination with methotrexate therapy group had significantly higher 
ACR 20, ACR 50, ACR 70 responses and improvement for DAS and HAQ scores at both 24 and 
52 weeks than patients in either of the single therapy groups (results shown in table below). 
Significant advantages for Enbrel in combination with methotrexate compared with Enbrel 
monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy were also observed after 24 months. 
Clinical Efficacy Results at 12 Months: Comparison of Enbrel vs. Methotrexate vs. Enbrel 
in Combination with Methotrexate in Patients with RA of 6 Months To 20 Years Duration 
Endpoint 
ACR Responsesa  
ACR 20 
ACR 50 
ACR 70 
Methotrexate 
(n = 228) 
Enbrel 
(n = 223) 
58.8% 
36.4% 
16.7% 
65.5% 
43.0% 
22.0% 
Enbrel + 
Methotrexate 
(n = 231) 
74.5% †,φ 
63.2% †,φ 
39.8% †,φ 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical Efficacy Results at 12 Months: Comparison of Enbrel vs. Methotrexate vs. Enbrel 
in Combination with Methotrexate in Patients with RA of 6 Months To 20 Years Duration 
Endpoint 
DAS 
Baseline scoreb 
Week 52 scoreb 
Remissionc 
HAQ 
Baseline 
Week 52 
Methotrexate 
(n = 228) 
Enbrel 
(n = 223) 
Enbrel + 
Methotrexate 
(n = 231) 
5.5 
3.0 
14% 
1.7 
1.1 
5.7 
3.0 
18% 
1.7 
1.0 
5.5 
2.3†,φ 
37%†,φ 
1.8 
0.8†,φ 
a: Patients who did not complete 12 months in the study were considered to be non-responders. 
b: Values for Disease Activity Score (DAS) are means. 
c: Remission is defined as DAS <1.6. 
Pairwise comparison p-values: † = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs. 
methotrexate and φ = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs. Enbrel. 
Radiographic progression at 12 months was significantly less in the Enbrel group than in the 
methotrexate group, while the combination was significantly better than either monotherapy at 
slowing radiographic progression (see figure below). 
Radiographic Progression: Comparison of Enbrel vs. Methotrexate vs. Enbrel in Combination 
with Methotrexate in Patients with RA of 6 Months To 20 Years Duration (12 Month Results) 
e
n
i
l
e
s
a
B
m
o
r
f
e
g
n
a
h
C
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
-0.5
-1.0
2.80
Methotrexate
Enbrel 
Enbrel + Methotrexate
1.68
1.12
0.52*
0.21*
0.32
-0.30†
-0.23†,φ
-0.54†,φ
TSS
Erosions
JSN
Pairwise comparison p-values: * = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel vs. 
methotrexate, † = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs. 
methotrexate and φ = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs. 
Enbrel. 
Significant advantages for Enbrel in combination with methotrexate compared with Enbrel 
monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy were also observed after 24 months. Similarly, the 
significant advantages for Enbrel monotherapy compared with methotrexate monotherapy were also 
observed after 24 months. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In an analysis in which all patients who dropped out of the study for any reason were considered to 
have progressed, the percentage of patients without progression (TSS change ≤ 0.5) at 24 months was 
higher in the Enbrel in combination with methotrexate group compared with the Enbrel alone and 
methotrexate alone groups (62%, 50%, and 36%, respectively; p < 0.05). The difference between 
Enbrel alone and methotrexate alone was also significant (p < 0.05). Among patients who completed a 
full 24 months of therapy in the study, the non-progression rates were 78%, 70%, and 61%, 
respectively. 
The safety and efficacy of 50 mg Enbrel (two 25 mg SC injections) administered once weekly were 
evaluated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 420 patients with active RA. In this study, 53 
patients received placebo, 214 patients received 50 mg Enbrel once weekly and 153 patients received 
25 mg Enbrel twice weekly. The safety and efficacy profiles of the two Enbrel treatment regimens 
were comparable at week 8 in their effect on signs and symptoms of RA; data at week 16 did not show 
comparability (non-inferiority) between the two regimens. 
Adult patients with psoriatic arthritis 
The efficacy of Enbrel was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in 205 
patients with psoriatic arthritis. Patients were between 18 and 70 years of age and had active psoriatic 
arthritis (≥ 3 swollen joints and ≥ 3 tender joints) in at least one of the following forms: (1) distal 
interphalangeal (DIP) involvement; (2) polyarticular arthritis (absence of rheumatoid nodules and 
presence of psoriasis); (3) arthritis mutilans; (4) asymmetric psoriatic arthritis; or (5) spondylitis-like 
ankylosis. Patients also had plaque psoriasis with a qualifying target lesion ≥ 2 cm in diameter. 
Patients had previously been treated with NSAIDs (86%), DMARDs (80%), and corticosteroids 
(24%). Patients currently on methotrexate therapy (stable for ≥ 2 months) could continue at a stable 
dose of ≤ 25 mg/week methotrexate. Doses of 25 mg of Enbrel (based on dose-finding studies in 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis) or placebo were administered SC twice a week for 6 months. At the 
end of the double-blind study, patients could enter a long-term open-label extension study for a total 
duration of up to 2 years. 
Clinical responses were expressed as percentages of patients achieving the ACR 20, 50, and 70 
response and percentages with improvement in Psoriatic Arthritis Response Criteria (PsARC). Results 
are summarised in the table below. 
Responses of Patients with Psoriatic Arthritis in a 
Placebo-Controlled Trial 
  Psoriatic Arthritis Response 
Percent of Patients 
Placebo 
n = 104 
Enbrela 
n = 101 
  ACR 20 
     Month 3 
     Month 6 
  ACR 50 
     Month 3 
     Month 6 
  ACR 70 
     Month 3 
     Month 6 
15 
13 
4 
4 
0 
1 
59b 
50b 
38b 
37b 
11b 
9c 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Responses of Patients with Psoriatic Arthritis in a 
Placebo-Controlled Trial 
Percent of Patients 
  Psoriatic Arthritis Response 
  PsARC 
     Month 3 
     Month 6 
a: 25 mg Enbrel SC twice weekly 
b: p < 0.001, Enbrel vs. placebo 
c: p < 0.01, Enbrel vs. placebo 
Placebo 
n = 104 
31 
23 
Enbrela 
n = 101 
72b 
70b 
Among patients with psoriatic arthritis who received Enbrel, the clinical responses were apparent at 
the time of the first visit (4 weeks) and were maintained through 6 months of therapy. Enbrel was 
significantly better than placebo in all measures of disease activity (p < 0.001), and responses were 
similar with and without concomitant methotrexate therapy. Quality of life in psoriatic arthritis 
patients was assessed at every timepoint using the disability index of the HAQ. The disability index 
score was significantly improved at all timepoints in psoriatic arthritis patients treated with Enbrel, 
relative to placebo (p < 0.001).  
Radiographic changes were assessed in the psoriatic arthritis study. Radiographs of hands and wrists 
were obtained at baseline and months 6, 12, and 24. The modified TSS at 12 months is presented in 
the table below. In an analysis in which all patients who dropped out of the study for any reason were 
considered to have progressed, the percentage of patients without progression (TSS change ≤ 0.5) at 
12 months was higher in the Enbrel group compared with the placebo group (73% vs. 47%, 
respectively, p ≤ 0.001). The effect of Enbrel on radiographic progression was maintained in patients 
who continued on treatment during the second year. The slowing of peripheral joint damage was 
observed in patients with polyarticular symmetrical joint involvement.   
Mean (SE) Annualized Change from Baseline in Total Sharp Score 
Time 
Month 12 
SE = standard error.   
a. p = 0.0001.   
Placebo 
(n = 104) 
1.00 (0.29) 
Etanercept 
(n = 101) 
-0.03 (0.09)a 
Enbrel treatment resulted in improvement in physical function during the double-blind period, and this 
benefit was maintained during the longer-term exposure of up to 2 years. 
There is insufficient evidence of the efficacy of Enbrel in patients with ankylosing spondylitis-like and 
arthritis mutilans psoriatic arthropathies due to the small number of patients studied. 
No study has been performed in patients with psoriatic arthritis using the 50 mg once-weekly dosing 
regimen. Evidence of efficacy for the once-weekly dosing regimen in this patient population has been 
based on data from the study in patients with ankylosing spondylitis. 
Adult patients with ankylosing spondylitis 
The efficacy of Enbrel in ankylosing spondylitis was assessed in 3 randomised, double-blind studies 
comparing twice-weekly administration of 25 mg Enbrel with placebo. A total of 401 patients were 
enrolled, from which 203 were treated with Enbrel. The largest of these trials (n= 277) enrolled 
patients who were between 18 and 70 years of age and had active ankylosing spondylitis defined as 
visual analog scale (VAS) scores of ≥ 30 for average of duration and intensity of morning stiffness 
plus VAS scores of ≥ 30 for at least 2 of the following 3 parameters: patient global assessment; 
average of VAS values for nocturnal back pain and total back pain; average of 10 questions on the 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index (BASFI). Patients receiving DMARDs, NSAIDS, or 
corticosteroids could continue them on stable doses. Patients with complete ankylosis of the spine 
were not included in the study. Doses of 25 mg of Enbrel (based on dose-finding studies in patients 
with rheumatoid arthritis) or placebo were administered subcutaneously twice a week for 6 months in 
138 patients. 
The primary measure of efficacy (ASAS 20) was a ≥20% improvement in at least 3 of the 4 
Assessment in Ankylosing Spondylitis (ASAS) domains (patient global assessments, back pain, 
BASFI, and inflammation) and absence of deterioration in the remaining domain. ASAS 50 and 70 
responses used the same criteria with a 50% improvement or a 70% improvement, respectively. 
Compared to placebo, treatment with Enbrel resulted in significant improvements in the ASAS 20, 
ASAS 50 and ASAS 70 as early as 2 weeks after the initiation of therapy. 
Responses of Patients with Ankylosing Spondylitis in a 
Placebo-controlled Trial 
  Ankylosing Spondylitis 
Response 
  ASAS 20  
  2 weeks 
  3 months 
  6 months 
  ASAS 50  
  2 weeks 
  3 months 
  6 months 
  ASAS 70 
  2 weeks 
  3 months 
  6 months  
 a: p<0.001, Enbrel vs. placebo 
 b: p = 0.002, Enbrel vs. placebo 
Percent of Patients 
Placebo 
N = 139 
Enbrel 
N = 138 
22 
27 
23 
7 
13 
10 
2 
7 
5 
46a 
60a 
58a 
24a 
45a 
42a 
12b 
29b 
28b 
Among patients with ankylosing spondylitis who received Enbrel, the clinical responses were apparent 
at the time of the first visit (2 weeks) and were maintained through 6 months of therapy. Responses 
were similar in patients who were or were not receiving concomitant therapies at baseline. 
Similar results were obtained in the 2 smaller ankylosing spondylitis trials. 
In a fourth study, the safety and efficacy of 50 mg Enbrel (two 25 mg SC injections) administered 
once weekly vs. 25 mg Enbrel administered twice weekly were evaluated in a double-blind, 
placebo-controlled study of 356 patients with active ankylosing spondylitis. The safety and efficacy 
profiles of the 50 mg once-weekly and 25 mg twice-weekly regimens were similar. 
Adult patients with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
Study 1 
The efficacy of Enbrel in patients with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (nr-AxSpa) was 
assessed in a randomised, 12-week double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The study evaluated 
215 adult patients (modified intent-to-treat population) with active nr-AxSpa (18 to 49 years of age), 
defined as those patients meeting the ASAS classification criteria of axial spondyloarthritis but did not 
meet the modified New York criteria for AS. Patients were also required to have an inadequate 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
response or intolerance to two or more NSAIDs. In the double-blind period, patients received Enbrel 
50 mg weekly or placebo for 12 weeks. The primary measure of efficacy (ASAS 40) was a 40% 
improvement in at least three of the four ASAS domains and absence of deterioration in the remaining 
domain. The double-blind period was followed by an open-label period during which all patients 
receive Enbrel 50 mg weekly for up to an additional 92 weeks. MRIs of the sacroiliac joint and spine 
were obtained to assess inflammation at baseline and at weeks 12 and 104. 
Compared to placebo, treatment with Enbrel resulted in statistically significant improvement in the 
ASAS 40, ASAS 20 and ASAS 5/6. Significant improvement was also observed for the ASAS partial 
remission and BASDAI 50. Week 12 results are shown in the table below. 
Efficacy Response in Placebo-Controlled nr-AxSpa Study: Percent of Patients Achieving 
Endpoints 
Double-Blind Clinical 
Responses at Week 12  
ASAS** 40 
ASAS 20 
ASAS 5/6 
ASAS partial remission 
BASDAI***50 
*Some patients did not provide complete data for each endpoint 
**ASAS=Assessments in Spondyloarthritis International Society 
***Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index 
a: p <0.001, b:<0.01 and c:<0.05, respectively between Enbrel and placebo 
Placebo 
N=106 to 109* 
15.7 
36.1 
10.4 
11.9 
23.9 
Enbrel 
N=103 to 105* 
32.4b 
52.4c 
33.0a 
24.8c 
43.8b 
At week 12, there was a statistically significant improvement in the SPARCC (Spondyloarthritis 
Research Consortium of Canada) score for the sacroiliac joint (SIJ) as measured by MRI for patients 
receiving Enbrel. Adjusted mean change from baseline was 3.8 for Enbrel treated (n=95) versus 0.8 
for placebo treated (n=105) patients (p<0.001). At week 104, the mean change from baseline in the 
SPARCC score measured on MRI for all Enbrel-treated subjects was 4.64 for the SIJ (n=153) and 
1.40 the spine (n=154). 
Enbrel showed statistically significantly greater improvement from baseline to week 12 compared to 
placebo in most health-related quality of life and physical function assessments, including BASFI 
(Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index), EuroQol 5D Overall Health State Score and SF-36 
Physical Component Score. 
Clinical responses among nr-AxSpa patients who received Enbrel were apparent at the time of the first 
visit (2 weeks) and were maintained through 2 years of therapy. Improvements in health-related 
quality of life and physical function were also maintained through 2 years of therapy. The 2 year data 
did not reveal any new safety findings. At week 104, 8 subjects had progressed to a score of bilateral 
Grade 2 on spinal X-ray according to the modified New York Radiological Grade, indicative of axial 
spondyloarthropathy. 
Study 2 
This multi-center, open-label, phase 4, 3-period study evaluated the withdrawal and retreatment of 
Enbrel in patients with active nr-AxSpa who achieved an adequate response (inactive disease defined 
as Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Score (ASDAS) C-reactive protein (CRP) less than 1.3) 
following 24 weeks of treatment.  
209 adult patients with active nr-AxSpa (18 to 49 years of age), defined as those patients meeting the 
Assessment of SpondyloArthritis International Society (ASAS) classification criteria of axial 
spondyloarthritis (but not meeting the modified New York criteria for AS), having positive MRI 
findings (active inflammation on MRI highly suggestive of sacroiliitis associated with SpA) and/or 
positive hsCRP (defined as high sensitivity C-reactive protein [hsCRP] >3 mg/l), and active symptoms 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
defined by an ASDAS CRP greater than or equal to 2.1 at the screening visit received open-label 
Enbrel 50 mg weekly plus stable background NSAID at the optimal tolerated anti-inflammatory 
dosage for 24 weeks in Period 1. Patients were also required to have an inadequate response or 
intolerance to two or more NSAIDs. At week 24, 119 (57%) patients achieved inactive disease and 
entered into the Period 2 40-week withdrawal phase where subjects discontinued etanercept, yet 
maintained the background NSAID. The primary measure of efficacy was the occurrence of flare 
(defined as an ASDAS erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) greater than or equal to 2.1) within 
40 weeks following withdrawal of Enbrel. Patients who flared were retreated with Enbrel 50 mg 
weekly for 12 weeks (Period 3). 
In Period 2, the proportion of patients experiencing ≥1 flare increased from 22% (25/112) at week 4 to 
67% (77/115) at week 40. Overall, 75% (86/115) patients experienced a flare at any time point within 
40 weeks following withdrawal of Enbrel.  
The key secondary objective of Study 2 was to estimate time to flare after withdrawal of Enbrel and 
additionally compare the time to flare to patients from Study 1 who met the Study 2 withdrawal phase 
entry requirements and continued Enbrel therapy.   
The median time to flare following withdrawal of Enbrel was 16 weeks (95% CI: 13-24 weeks). Less 
than 25% of patients in Study 1 who did not have treatment withdrawn experienced a flare over the 
equivalent 40-weeks as in Period 2 Study 2. The time to flare was statistically significantly shorter in 
subjects who discontinued Enbrel treatment (Study 2) compared to subjects who received continuous 
etanercept treatment (Study 1), p < 0.0001. 
Of the 87 patients who entered Period 3 and were retreated with Enbrel 50 mg weekly for 12 weeks, 
62% (54/87) reachieved inactive disease, with 50% of them reachieving it within 5 weeks (95% CI: 
4-8 weeks). 
Adult patients with plaque psoriasis 
Enbrel is recommended for use in patients as defined in section 4.1. Patients who “failed to respond 
to” in the target population is defined by insufficient response (PASI<50 or PGA less than good), or 
worsening of the disease while on treatment, and who were adequately dosed for a sufficiently long 
duration to assess response with at least one of the three major systemic therapies as available. 
The efficacy of Enbrel versus other systemic therapies in patients with moderate to severe psoriasis 
(responsive to other systemic therapies) has not been evaluated in studies directly comparing Enbrel 
with other systemic therapies. Instead, the safety and efficacy of Enbrel were assessed in four 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. The primary efficacy endpoint in all four studies 
was the proportion of patients in each treatment group who achieved the PASI 75 (i.e., at least a 75% 
improvement in the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index score from baseline) at 12 weeks. 
Study 1 was a Phase 2 study in patients with active, but clinically stable, plaque psoriasis involving ≥ 
10% of the body surface area who were ≥ 18 years old. One hundred and twelve (112) patients were 
randomised to receive a dose of 25 mg of Enbrel (n=57) or placebo (n=55) twice a week for 24 weeks. 
Study 2 evaluated 652 patients with chronic plaque psoriasis using the same inclusion criteria as study 
1 with the addition of a minimum psoriasis area and severity index (PASI) of 10 at screening. Enbrel 
was administered at doses of 25 mg once a week, 25 mg twice a week or 50 mg twice a week for 
6 consecutive months. During the first 12 weeks of the double-blind treatment period, patients 
received placebo or one of the above three Enbrel doses. After 12 weeks of treatment, patients in the 
placebo group began treatment with blinded Enbrel (25 mg twice a week); patients in the active 
treatment groups continued to week 24 on the dose to which they were originally randomised. 
Study 3 evaluated 583 patients and had the same inclusion criteria as study 2. Patients in this study 
received a dose of 25 mg or 50 mg Enbrel, or placebo twice a week for 12 weeks and then all patients 
received open-label 25 mg Enbrel twice weekly for an additional 24 weeks. 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 4 evaluated 142 patients and had similar inclusion criteria to studies 2 and 3. Patients in this 
study received a dose of 50 mg Enbrel or placebo once weekly for 12 weeks and then all patients 
received open-label 50 mg Enbrel once weekly for an additional 12 weeks. 
In study 1, the Enbrel-treated group had a significantly higher proportion of patients with a PASI 75 
response at week 12 (30%) compared to the placebo-treated group (2%) (p<0.0001). At 24 weeks, 
56% of patients in the Enbrel-treated group had achieved the PASI 75 compared to 5% of 
placebo-treated patients. Key results of studies 2, 3 and 4 are shown below. 
Responses of Patients with Psoriasis in Studies 2, 3 and 4 
Study 3 
--------Enbrel------- 
50 mg 
25 mg 
BIW 
BIW 
n = 196 
n = 196 
wk 12 
wk 12 
Placebo 
n = 46 
wk 12 
Study 4 
-------Enbrel------ 
50 mg 
50 mg 
QW 
QW 
n = 90 
n = 96 
wk 24a 
wk 12 
Placebo 
n = 193 
wk 12 
Placebo 
n = 166 
wk 12 
Study 2 
----------Enbrel--------- 
50 mg  
BIW 
25 mg  
BIW 
n = 
162 
wk 
12 
58* 
34* 
n = 
162 
wk 
24a 
70 
44 
n = 
164 
wk 
12 
74* 
49* 
n = 
164 
wk 
24a 
77 
59 
9 
3 
14 
4 
Respons
e (%) 
PASI 50 
PASI 75 
DSGA b, 
clear or 
almost 
clear 
*p ≤ 0.0001 compared with placebo 
a. No statistical comparisons to placebo were made at week 24 in studies 2 and 4 because the original 
placebo group began receiving Enbrel 25 mg BIW or 50 mg once weekly from week 13 to week 24. 
b. Dermatologist Static Global Assessment. Clear or almost clear defined as 0 or 1 on a 0 to 5 scale. 
77* 
49* 
69* 
38* 
64* 
34* 
57* 
39* 
39* 
49* 
34* 
9 
2 
55 
39 
5 
4 
4 
83 
71 
64 
Among patients with plaque psoriasis who received Enbrel, significant responses relative to placebo 
were apparent at the time of the first visit (2 weeks) and were maintained through 24 weeks of therapy. 
Study 2 also had a drug withdrawal period during which patients who achieved a PASI improvement 
of at least 50% at week 24 had treatment stopped. Patients were observed off treatment for the 
occurrence of rebound (PASI ≥150% of baseline) and for the time to relapse (defined as a loss of at 
least half of the improvement achieved between baseline and week 24). During the withdrawal period, 
symptoms of psoriasis gradually returned, with a median time to disease relapse of 3 months. No 
rebound flare of disease and no psoriasis-related serious adverse events were observed. There was 
some evidence to support a benefit of re-treatment with Enbrel in patients initially responding to 
treatment. 
In study 3, the majority of patients (77%) who were initially randomised to 50 mg twice weekly and 
had their Enbrel dose decreased at week 12 to 25 mg twice weekly maintained their PASI 75 response 
through week 36. For patients who received 25 mg twice weekly throughout the study, the PASI 75 
response continued to improve between weeks 12 and 36. 
In study 4, the Enbrel-treated group had a higher proportion of patients with PASI 75 at week 12 
(38%) compared to the placebo-treated group (2%) (p<0.0001). For patients who received 50 mg once 
weekly throughout the study, the efficacy responses continued to improve with 71% achieving PASI 
75 at week 24. 
In long-term (up to 34 months) open-label studies where Enbrel was given without interruption, 
clinical responses were sustained and safety was comparable to shorter-term studies. 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An analysis of clinical trial data did not reveal any baseline disease characteristics that would assist 
clinicians in selecting the most appropriate dosing option (intermittent or continuous). Consequently, 
the choice of intermittent or continuous therapy should be based upon physician judgment and 
individual patient needs. 
Antibodies to Enbrel 
Antibodies to etanercept have been detected in the sera of some subjects treated with etanercept. 
These antibodies have all been non-neutralising and are generally transient. There appears to be no 
correlation between antibody development and clinical response or adverse events. 
In subjects treated with approved doses of etanercept in clinical trials for up to 12 months, cumulative 
rates of anti-etanercept antibodies were approximately 6% of subjects with rheumatoid arthritis, 7.5% 
of subjects with psoriatic arthritis, 2% of subjects with ankylosing spondylitis, 7% of subjects with 
psoriasis, 9.7% of subjects with paediatric psoriasis, and 4.8 % of subjects with juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis.  
The proportion of subjects who developed antibodies to etanercept in longer-term trials (of up to 
3.5 years) increases over time, as expected. However, due to their transient nature, the incidence of 
antibodies detected at each assessment point was typically less than 7% in rheumatoid arthritis 
subjects and psoriasis subjects. 
In a long-term psoriasis study in which patients received 50 mg twice weekly for 96 weeks, the 
incidence of antibodies observed at each assessment point was up to approximately 9%. 
Paediatric population 
Paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
The safety and efficacy of Enbrel were assessed in a two-part study in 69 children with polyarticular-
course juvenile idiopathic arthritis who had a variety of juvenile idiopathic arthritis onset types 
(polyarthritis, pauciarthritis, systemic onset). Patients aged 4 to 17 years with moderately to severely 
active polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis refractory to, or intolerant of, methotrexate 
were enrolled; patients remained on a stable dose of a single nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug 
and/or prednisone (< 0.2 mg/kg/day or 10 mg maximum). In part 1, all patients received 0.4 mg/kg 
(maximum 25 mg per dose) Enbrel subcutaneously twice weekly. In part 2, patients with a clinical 
response at day 90 were randomised to remain on Enbrel or receive placebo for four months and 
assessed for disease flare. Responses were measured using ACR Pedi 30 , defined as ≥ 30% 
improvement in at least three of six and ≥ 30% worsening in no more than one of six JRA core set 
criteria, including active joint count, limitation of motion, physician and patient/parent global 
assessments, functional assessment, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR). Disease flare was 
defined as a ≥ 30% worsening in three of six JRA core set criteria and ≥ 30% improvement in not 
more than one of the six JRA core set criteria and a minimum of two active joints. 
In part 1 of the study, 51 of 69 (74%) patients demonstrated a clinical response and entered part 2. In 
part 2, 6 of 25 (24%) patients remaining on Enbrel experienced a disease flare compared to 20 of 
26 (77%) patients receiving placebo (p=0.007). From the start of part 2, the median time to flare was 
≥ 116 days for patients who received Enbrel and 28 days for patients who received placebo. Of 
patients who demonstrated a clinical response at 90 days and entered part 2 of the study, some of the 
patients remaining on Enbrel continued to improve from month 3 through month 7, while those who 
received placebo did not improve. 
In an open-label, safety extension study, 58 paediatric patients from the above study (from the age of 
4 years at time of enrollment) continued to receive Enbrel for up to 10 years. Rates of serious adverse 
events and serious infections did not increase with long-term exposure. 
Long-term safety of Enbrel monotherapy (n=103), Enbrel plus methotrexate (n=294), or methotrexate 
monotherapy (n=197) were assessed for up to 3 years in a registry of 594 children aged 2 to 18 years 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with juvenile idiopathic arthritis, 39 of whom were 2 to 3 years of age. Overall, infections were more 
commonly reported in patients treated with etanercept compared to methotrexate alone (3.8 versus 
2%), and the infections associated with etanercept use were of a more severe nature. 
In another open-label single-arm study (n=127), 60 patients with extended oligoarthritis (EO) 
(15 patients aged 2 to 4, 23 patients aged 5 to 11 and 22 patients aged 12 to 17 years old), 38 patients 
with enthesitis-related arthritis (12 to 17 years old), and 29 patients with psoriatic arthritis (12 to 
17 years old) were treated with Enbrel at a dose of 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 50 mg per dose) 
administered weekly for 12 weeks. In each of the JIA subtypes, the majority of patients met ACR Pedi 
30 criteria and demonstrated clinical improvement in secondary endpoints such as number of tender 
joints and physician global assessment. The safety profile was consistent with that observed in other 
JIA studies.  
Of the 127 patients in the parent study, 109 participated in the open-label extension study and were 
followed for an additional 8 years for a total of up to 10 years. At the end of the extension study, 
84/109 (77%) patients had completed the study; 27 (25%) while actively taking Enbrel, 7 (6%) had 
withdrawn from treatment due to low/inactive disease; 5 (5%) had re-started Enbrel following an 
earlier withdrawal from treatment; and 45 (41%) had stopped Enbrel (but remained under 
observation); 25/109 (23%) patients permanently discontinued from the study. Improvements in 
clinical status achieved in the parent study were generally maintained for all efficacy endpoints during 
the entire follow-up period. Patients actively taking Enbrel could enter an optional withdrawal-
retreatment period once during the extension study based on investigator’s judgement of clinical 
response. 30 patients entered the withdrawal period. 17 patients were reported to have a flare (defined 
as ≥ 30% worsening in at least 3 of the 6 ACR Pedi components with ≥ 30% improvement in not more 
than 1 of the remaining 6 components and a minimum of 2 active joints); median time to flare after 
Enbrel withdrawal was 190 days. 13 patients were re-treated and the median time to re-treatment from 
withdrawal was estimated as 274 days. Due to the small number of data points, these results should be 
interpreted with caution. 
The safety profile was consistent with that observed in the parent study. 
Studies have not been done in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis to assess the effects of 
continued Enbrel therapy in patients who do not respond within 3 months of initiating Enbrel therapy. 
Additionally, studies have not been conducted to assess the effects of reducing the recommended dose 
of Enbrel following its long-term use in patients with JIA. 
Paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
The efficacy of Enbrel was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in 211 
paediatric patients aged 4 to 17 years with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis (as defined by an sPGA 
score ≥ 3, involving ≥ 10% of the BSA, and PASI ≥ 12). Eligible patients had a history of receiving 
phototherapy or systemic therapy, or were inadequately controlled on topical therapy. 
Patients received Enbrel 0.8 mg/kg (up to 50 mg) or placebo once weekly for 12 weeks. At week 12, 
more patients randomised to Enbrel had positive efficacy responses (e.g., PASI 75) than those 
randomised to placebo. 
 Paediatric Plaque Psoriasis Outcomes at 12 Weeks 
PASI 75, n (%) 
PASI 50, n (%) 
sPGA “clear” or “minimal”, n (%) 
Enbrel 
0.8 mg/kg Once 
Weekly 
(N = 106) 
60 (57%)a 
79 (75%)a 
56 (53%)a 
57 
Placebo 
(N = 105) 
12 (11%) 
24 (23%) 
14 (13%) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abbreviation: sPGA-static Physician Global Assessment 
a.  p < 0.0001 compared with placebo 
After the 12-week double-blind treatment period, all patients received Enbrel 0.8 mg/kg (up to 50 mg) 
once weekly for additional 24 weeks. Responses observed during the open-label period were similar to 
those observed in the double-blind period. 
During a randomised withdrawal period, significantly more patients re-randomised to placebo 
experienced disease relapse (loss of PASI 75 response) compared with patients re-randomised to 
Enbrel. With continued therapy, responses were maintained up to 48 weeks.  
The long-term safety and effectiveness of Enbrel 0.8 mg/kg (up to 50 mg) once weekly was assessed 
in an open-label extension study of 181 paediatric subjects with plaque psoriasis for up to 2 years 
beyond the 48 week study discussed above. Long-term experience with Enbrel was generally 
comparable to the original 48-week study and did not reveal any new safety findings.  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Etanercept serum values were determined by an Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) 
method, which may detect ELISA-reactive degradation products, as well as the parent compound. 
Absorption 
Etanercept is slowly absorbed from the site of subcutaneous injection, reaching maximum 
concentration approximately 48 hours after a single dose. The absolute bioavailability is 76%. With 
twice-weekly doses, it is anticipated that steady-state concentrations are approximately twice as high 
as those observed after single doses. After a single subcutaneous dose of 25 mg Enbrel, the average 
maximum serum concentration observed in healthy volunteers was 1.65 ± 0.66 µg/ml, and the area 
under the curve was 235 ± 96.6 µg•hr/ml. 
Mean serum concentration profiles at steady state in treated RA patients were Cmax of 2.4 mg/l vs. 
2.6 mg/l, Cmin of 1.2 mg/l vs. 1.4 mg/l, and partial AUC of 297 mgh/l vs. 316 mgh/l for 50 mg Enbrel 
once weekly (n=21) vs. 25 mg Enbrel twice weekly (n=16), respectively. In an open-label, single-
dose, two-treatment, crossover study in healthy volunteers, etanercept administered as a single 
50 mg/ml injection was found to be bioequivalent to two simultaneous injections of 25 mg/ml. 
In a population pharmacokinetics analysis in ankylosing spondylitis patients, the etanercept steady 
state AUCs were 466 µg•hr/ml and 474 µg•hr/ml for 50 mg Enbrel once weekly (N= 154) and 25 mg 
twice weekly (N = 148), respectively. 
Distribution 
A biexponential curve is required to describe the concentration time curve of etanercept. The central 
volume of distribution of etanercept is 7.6 l, while the volume of distribution at steady-state is 10.4 l. 
Elimination 
Etanercept is cleared slowly from the body. The half-life is long, approximately 70 hours. Clearance is 
approximately 0.066 l/hr in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, somewhat lower than the value of 
0.11 l/hr observed in healthy volunteers. Additionally, the pharmacokinetics of Enbrel in rheumatoid 
arthritis patients, ankylosing spondylitis and plaque psoriasis patients are similar. 
There is no apparent pharmacokinetic difference between males and females. 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linearity 
Dose proportionality has not been formally evaluated, but there is no apparent saturation of clearance 
across the dosing range. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Although there is elimination of radioactivity in urine after administration of radiolabelled etanercept 
to patients and volunteers, increased etanercept concentrations were not observed in patients with 
acute renal failure. The presence of renal impairment should not require a change in dosage. 
Hepatic impairment 
Increased etanercept concentrations were not observed in patients with acute hepatic failure. The 
presence of hepatic impairment should not require a change in dosage. 
Elderly 
The impact of advanced age was studied in the population pharmacokinetic analysis of etanercept 
serum concentrations. Clearance and volume estimates in patients aged 65 to 87 years were similar to 
estimates in patients less than 65 years of age. 
Paediatric population 
Paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
In a polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis trial with Enbrel, 69 patients (aged 4 to 17 years) 
were administered 0.4 mg Enbrel/kg twice weekly for three months. Serum concentration profiles 
were similar to those seen in adult rheumatoid arthritis patients. The youngest children (4 years of age) 
had reduced clearance (increased clearance when normalised by weight) compared with older children 
(12 years of age) and adults. Simulation of dosing suggests that while older children (10-17 years of 
age) will have serum levels close to those seen in adults, younger children will have appreciably lower 
levels. 
Paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
Patients with paediatric plaque psoriasis (aged 4 to 17 years) were administered 0.8 mg/kg (up to a 
maximum dose of 50 mg per week) of etanercept once weekly for up to 48 weeks. The mean serum 
steady-state trough concentrations ranged from 1.6 to 2.1 mcg/ml at weeks 12, 24, and 48. These mean 
concentrations in patients with paediatric plaque psoriasis were similar to the concentrations observed 
in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (treated with 0.4 mg/kg etanercept twice weekly, up to 
maximum dose of 50 mg per week). These mean concentrations were similar to those seen in adult 
patients with plaque psoriasis treated with 25 mg etanercept twice-weekly. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In the toxicological studies with Enbrel, no dose-limiting or target organ toxicity was evident. Enbrel 
was considered to be non-genotoxic from a battery of in vitro and in vivo studies. Carcinogenicity 
studies, and standard assessments of fertility and postnatal toxicity, were not performed with Enbrel 
due to the development of neutralising antibodies in rodents. 
Enbrel did not induce lethality or notable signs of toxicity in mice or rats following a single 
subcutaneous dose of 2000 mg/kg or a single intravenous dose of 1000 mg/kg. Enbrel did not elicit 
dose-limiting or target organ toxicity in cynomolgus monkeys following twice weekly subcutaneous 
administration for 4 or 26 consecutive weeks at a dose (15 mg/kg) that resulted in AUC-based serum 
drug concentrations that were over 27-fold higher than that obtained in humans at the recommended 
dose of 25 mg. 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Powder 
Mannitol (E421) 
Sucrose 
Trometamol 
Solvent 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
4 years. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 6 hours at temperatures of up to 
25°C after reconstitution. From a microbiological point of view, the reconstituted medicinal product 
should be used immediately. If not used immediately, storage times and conditions prior to use are the 
responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer than 6 hours at temperatures of up to 
25°C, unless reconstitution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Enbrel may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 25°C for a single period of up to four 
weeks; after which, it should not be refrigerated again. Enbrel should be discarded if not used within 
four weeks of removal from refrigeration. 
For storage conditions of the reconstituted medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Clear glass vial (2 ml, type I glass) with rubber stoppers, aluminium seals, and flip-off plastic caps. 
Enbrel is supplied with pre-filled syringes containing water for injection. The syringes are type I glass. 
The syringe cover contains dry natural rubber (latex) (see section 4.4). Cartons contain 4, 8 or 24 vials 
of Enbrel with 4, 8 or 24 pre-filled solvent syringes, 4, 8 or 24 needles, 4, 8 or 24 vial adaptors and 8, 
16 or 48 alcohol swabs. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Instructions for use and handling 
Enbrel is reconstituted with 1 ml water for injections before use, and administered by subcutaneous 
injection. Enbrel contains no antibacterial preservative, and therefore, solutions prepared with water 
for injections should be administered as soon as possible and within 6 hours following reconstitution. 
The solution should be clear and colourless to pale yellow or pale brown, with no lumps, flakes or 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
particles. Some white foam may remain in the vial – this is normal. Enbrel should not be used if all the 
powder in the vial is not dissolved within 10 minutes. If this is the case, start again with another vial. 
Comprehensive instructions for the preparation and administration of the reconstituted Enbrel vial are 
given in the package leaflet, section 7, “Instructions for use.” 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/99/126/003  
EU/1/99/126/004  
EU/1/99/126/005  
9.  DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 03 February 2000 
Date of last renewal: 26 November 2009 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 25 mg of etanercept. 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 50 mg of etanercept. 
Etanercept is a human tumour necrosis factor receptor p75 Fc fusion protein produced by recombinant 
DNA technology in a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) mammalian expression system.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection. 
The solution is clear, and colourless to pale yellow or pale brown. 
4.  CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Enbrel in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe active 
rheumatoid arthritis in adults when the response to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, including 
methotrexate (unless contraindicated), has been inadequate. 
Enbrel can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued 
treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate. 
Enbrel is also indicated in the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults 
not previously treated with methotrexate. 
Enbrel, alone or in combination with methotrexate, has been shown to reduce the rate of progression 
of joint damage as measured by X-ray and to improve physical function. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Treatment of polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative) and extended oligoarthritis in 
children and adolescents from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to, or who have 
proved intolerant of, methotrexate. 
Treatment of psoriatic arthritis in adolescents from the age of 12 years who have had an inadequate 
response to, or who have proved intolerant of, methotrexate. 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Treatment of enthesitis-related arthritis in adolescents from the age of 12 years who have had an 
inadequate response to, or who have proved intolerant of, conventional therapy.  
Psoriatic arthritis 
Treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when the response to previous disease-
modifying antirheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. Enbrel has been shown to improve 
physical function in patients with psoriatic arthritis, and to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral 
joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease. 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have had an inadequate response to 
conventional therapy. 
Non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
Treatment of adults with severe non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis with objective signs of 
inflammation as indicated by elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) and/or magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) evidence, who have had an inadequate response to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
(NSAIDs). 
Plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who failed to respond to, or who have a 
contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy, including ciclosporin, methotrexate or 
psoralen and ultraviolet-A light (PUVA) (see section 5.1). 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of chronic severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents from the age of 6 years who 
are inadequately controlled by, or are intolerant to, other systemic therapies or phototherapies. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Enbrel treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, 
ankylosing spondylitis, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis, plaque psoriasis or paediatric plaque 
psoriasis. Patients treated with Enbrel should be given the Patient Card. 
Enbrel is available in strengths of 10, 25 and 50 mg.  
Posology 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
25 mg Enbrel administered twice weekly is the recommended dose. Alternatively, 50 mg administered 
once weekly has been shown to be safe and effective (see section 5.1). 
Psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis and non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
The recommended dose is 25 mg Enbrel administered twice weekly, or 50 mg administered once 
weekly.   
For all of the above indications, available data suggest that a clinical response is usually achieved 
within 12 weeks of treatment. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not 
responding within this time period. 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Plaque psoriasis 
The recommended dose of Enbrel is 25 mg administered twice weekly or 50 mg administered once 
weekly. Alternatively, 50 mg given twice weekly may be used for up to 12 weeks followed, if 
necessary, by a dose of 25 mg twice weekly or 50 mg once weekly. Treatment with Enbrel should 
continue until remission is achieved, for up to 24 weeks. Continuous therapy beyond 24 weeks may be 
appropriate for some adult patients (see section 5.1). Treatment should be discontinued in patients who 
show no response after 12 weeks. If re-treatment with Enbrel is indicated, the same guidance on 
treatment duration should be followed. The dose should be 25 mg twice weekly or 50 mg once 
weekly.  
Special populations 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required. 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required. Posology and administration are the same as for adults 18-64 years of 
age. 
Paediatric population 
The dosage of Enbrel is based on body weight for paediatric patients. Patients weighing less than 62.5 kg 
should be accurately dosed on a mg/kg basis using the powder and solvent for solution for injection 
presentations or the powder for solution for injection presentations (see below for dosing for specific 
indications). Patients weighing 62.5 kg or more, may be dosed using a fixed-dose pre-filled syringe or 
pre-filled pen.  
The safety and efficacy of Enbrel in children aged less than 2 years has not been established. 
No data are available. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis  
The recommended dose is 0.4 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 25 mg per dose) given twice weekly as a 
subcutaneous injection with an interval of 3-4 days between doses or 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 
50 mg per dose) given once weekly. Discontinuation of treatment should be considered in patients 
who show no response after 4 months. 
The 10 mg vial strength may be more appropriate for administration to children with JIA below the 
weight of 25 kg. 
No formal clinical trials have been conducted in children aged 2 to 3 years. However, limited safety 
data from a patient registry suggest that the safety profile in children from 2 to 3 years of age is similar 
to that seen in adults and children aged 4 years and older, when dosed every week with 0.8 mg/kg 
subcutaneously (see section 5.1). 
There is generally no applicable use of Enbrel in children aged below 2 years in the indication juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis (age 6 years and above) 
The recommended dose is 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 50 mg per dose) once weekly for up to 
24 weeks. Treatment should be discontinued in patients who show no response after 12 weeks. 
If re-treatment with Enbrel is indicated, the above guidance on treatment duration should be followed. 
The dose should be 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 50 mg per dose) once weekly. 
There is generally no applicable use of Enbrel in children aged below 6 years in the indication plaque 
psoriasis. 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Method of administration 
Enbrel is administered by subcutaneous injection (see section 6.6). 
Comprehensive instructions for administration are given in the package leaflet, section 7, "Instructions 
for use." Detailed instructions on unintentional dosing or scheduling variations, including missed 
doses, are provided in section 3 of the package leaflet. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Sepsis or risk of sepsis. 
Treatment with Enbrel should not be initiated in patients with active infections, including chronic or 
localised infections. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the brand name and batch 
number of the administered product should be clearly recorded (or stated) in the patient file. 
Infections 
Patients should be evaluated for infections before, during, and after treatment with Enbrel, taking into 
consideration that the mean elimination half-life of etanercept is approximately 70 hours (range 7 to 
300 hours). 
Serious infections, sepsis, tuberculosis, and opportunistic infections, including invasive fungal 
infections, listeriosis and legionellosis, have been reported with the use of Enbrel (see section 4.8). 
These infections were due to bacteria, mycobacteria, fungi, viruses and parasites (including protozoa). 
In some cases, particular fungal and other opportunistic infections have not been recognised, resulting 
in delay of appropriate treatment and sometimes death. In evaluating patients for infections, the 
patient’s risk for relevant opportunistic infections (e.g., exposure to endemic mycoses) should be 
considered.  
Patients who develop a new infection while undergoing treatment with Enbrel should be monitored 
closely. Administration of Enbrel should be discontinued if a patient develops a serious infection. The 
safety and efficacy of Enbrel in patients with chronic infections have not been evaluated. Physicians 
should exercise caution when considering the use of Enbrel in patients with a history of recurring or 
chronic infections or with underlying conditions that may predispose patients to infections, such as 
advanced or poorly controlled diabetes. 
Tuberculosis 
Cases of active tuberculosis, including miliary tuberculosis and tuberculosis with extra-pulmonary 
location, have been reported in patients treated with Enbrel. 
Before starting treatment with Enbrel, all patients must be evaluated for both active and inactive 
(‘latent’) tuberculosis. This evaluation should include a detailed medical history with personal history 
of tuberculosis or possible previous contact with tuberculosis and previous and/or current 
immunosuppressive therapy. Appropriate screening tests, i.e., tuberculin skin test and chest X-ray, 
should be performed in all patients (local recommendations may apply). It is recommended that the 
conduct of these tests should be recorded in the Patient Card. Prescribers are reminded of the risk of 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
false negative tuberculin skin test results, especially in patients who are severely ill or 
immunocompromised. 
If active tuberculosis is diagnosed, Enbrel therapy must not be initiated. If inactive (‘latent’) 
tuberculosis is diagnosed, treatment for latent tuberculosis must be started with anti-tuberculosis 
therapy before the initiation of Enbrel, and in accordance with local recommendations. In this 
situation, the benefit/risk balance of Enbrel therapy should be very carefully considered. 
All patients should be informed to seek medical advice if signs/symptoms suggestive of tuberculosis 
(e.g., persistent cough, wasting/weight loss, low-grade fever) appear during or after Enbrel treatment. 
Hepatitis B reactivation 
Reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who were previously infected with the hepatitis B virus (HBV) 
and had received concomitant TNF-antagonists, including Enbrel, has been reported. This includes 
reports of reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who were anti-HBc positive but HBsAg negative. 
Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with Enbrel. For patients who 
test positive for HBV infection, consultation with a physician with expertise in the treatment of 
hepatitis B is recommended. Caution should be exercised when administering Enbrel in patients 
previously infected with HBV. These patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of active 
HBV infection throughout therapy and for several weeks following termination of therapy. Adequate 
data from treating patients infected with HBV with anti-viral therapy in conjunction with 
TNF-antagonist therapy are not available. In patients who develop HBV infection, Enbrel should be 
stopped and effective anti-viral therapy with appropriate supportive treatment should be initiated. 
Worsening of hepatitis C 
There have been reports of worsening of hepatitis C in patients receiving Enbrel. Enbrel should be 
used with caution in patients with a history of hepatitis C. 
Concurrent treatment with anakinra  
Concurrent administration of Enbrel and anakinra has been associated with an increased risk of serious 
infections and neutropenia compared to Enbrel alone. This combination has not demonstrated 
increased clinical benefit. Thus, the combined use of Enbrel and anakinra is not recommended (see 
sections 4.5 and 4.8). 
Concurrent treatment with abatacept  
In clinical studies, concurrent administration of abatacept and Enbrel resulted in increased incidences 
of serious adverse events. This combination has not demonstrated increased clinical benefit; such use 
is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Allergic reactions 
Allergic reactions associated with Enbrel administration have been reported commonly. Allergic 
reactions have included angioedema and urticaria; serious reactions have occurred. If any serious 
allergic or anaphylactic reaction occurs, Enbrel therapy should be discontinued immediately and 
appropriate therapy initiated. 
The needle cover of the pre-filled syringe contains latex (dry natural rubber) that may cause 
hypersensitivity reactions when handled by, or when Enbrel is administered to, persons with known or 
possible latex sensitivity. 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunosuppression 
The possibility exists for TNF-antagonists, including Enbrel, to affect host defences against infections 
and malignancies since TNF mediates inflammation and modulates cellular immune responses. In a 
study of 49 adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with Enbrel, there was no evidence of 
depression of delayed-type hypersensitivity, depression of immunoglobulin levels, or change in 
enumeration of effector cell populations. 
Two juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients developed varicella infection and signs and symptoms of 
aseptic meningitis, which resolved without sequelae. Patients with a significant exposure to varicella 
virus should temporarily discontinue Enbrel therapy and be considered for prophylactic treatment with 
Varicella Zoster Immune Globulin. 
The safety and efficacy of Enbrel in patients with immunosuppression have not been evaluated. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
Solid and haematopoietic malignancies (excluding skin cancers) 
Reports of various malignancies (including breast and lung carcinoma and lymphoma) have been 
received in the postmarketing period (see section 4.8).  
In the controlled portions of clinical trials of TNF-antagonists, more cases of lymphoma have been 
observed among patients receiving a TNF-antagonist compared with control patients. However, the 
occurrence was rare, and the follow-up period of placebo patients was shorter than for patients 
receiving TNF-antagonist therapy. In the postmarketing setting, cases of leukaemia have been reported 
in patients treated with TNF-antagonists. There is an increased background risk for lymphoma and 
leukaemia in rheumatoid arthritis patients with long-standing, highly active, inflammatory disease, 
which complicates risk estimation. 
Based on current knowledge, a possible risk for the development of lymphomas, leukaemia or other 
haematopoietic or solid malignancies in patients treated with a TNF-antagonist cannot be excluded. 
Caution should be exercised when considering TNF-antagonist therapy for patients with a history of 
malignancy or when considering continuing treatment in patients who develop a malignancy. 
Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults (up to 
22 years of age) treated with TNF-antagonists (initiation of therapy ≤ 18 years of age), including 
Enbrel, in the postmarketing setting. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas. The other cases 
represented a variety of different malignancies and included rare malignancies typically associated 
with immunosuppression. A risk for the development of malignancies in children and adolescents 
treated with TNF-antagonists cannot be excluded. 
Skin cancers 
Melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) have been reported in patients treated with 
TNF-antagonists, including Enbrel. Postmarketing cases of Merkel cell carcinoma have been reported 
very infrequently in patients treated with Enbrel. Periodic skin examination is recommended for all 
patients, particularly those with risk factors for skin cancer. 
Combining the results of controlled clinical trials, more cases of NMSC were observed in patients 
receiving Enbrel compared with control patients, particularly in patients with psoriasis.  
Vaccinations 
Live vaccines should not be given concurrently with Enbrel. No data are available on the secondary 
transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving Enbrel. In a double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, randomised clinical study in adult patients with psoriatic arthritis, 184 patients also 
received a multivalent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine at week 4. In this study, most psoriatic 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
arthritis patients receiving Enbrel were able to mount effective B-cell immune response to 
pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine, but titres in aggregate were moderately lower, and few patients 
had two-fold rises in titres compared to patients not receiving Enbrel. The clinical significance of this 
is unknown. 
Autoantibody formation 
Treatment with Enbrel may result in the formation of autoimmune antibodies (see section 4.8). 
Haematologic reactions 
Rare cases of pancytopenia and very rare cases of aplastic anaemia, some with fatal outcome, have 
been reported in patients treated with Enbrel. Caution should be exercised in patients being treated 
with Enbrel who have a previous history of blood dyscrasias. All patients and parents/caregivers 
should be advised that if the patient develops signs and symptoms suggestive of blood dyscrasias or 
infections (e.g., persistent fever, sore throat, bruising, bleeding, paleness) whilst on Enbrel, they 
should seek immediate medical advice. Such patients should be investigated urgently, including full 
blood count; if blood dyscrasias are confirmed, Enbrel should be discontinued. 
Neurological disorders 
There have been rare reports of CNS demyelinating disorders in patients treated with Enbrel (see 
section 4.8). Additionally, there have been rare reports of peripheral demyelinating polyneuropathies 
(including Guillain-Barré syndrome, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, 
demyelinating polyneuropathy, and multifocal motor neuropathy). Although no clinical trials have 
been performed evaluating Enbrel therapy in patients with multiple sclerosis, clinical trials of other 
TNF antagonists in patients with multiple sclerosis have shown increases in disease activity. A careful 
risk/benefit evaluation, including a neurologic assessment, is recommended when prescribing Enbrel 
to patients with pre-existing or recent onset of demyelinating disease, or to those who are considered 
to have an increased risk of developing demyelinating disease. 
Combination therapy 
In a controlled clinical trial of two years duration in rheumatoid arthritis patients, the combination of 
Enbrel and methotrexate did not result in unexpected safety findings, and the safety profile of Enbrel 
when given in combination with methotrexate was similar to the profiles reported in studies of Enbrel 
and methotrexate alone. Long-term studies to assess the safety of the combination are ongoing. The 
long-term safety of Enbrel in combination with other disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs 
(DMARD) has not been established. 
The use of Enbrel in combination with other systemic therapies or phototherapy for the treatment of 
psoriasis has not been studied. 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
Based on pharmacokinetic data (see section 5.2), no dose adjustment is needed in patients with renal 
or hepatic impairment; clinical experience in such patients is limited. 
Congestive heart failure (Cardiac failure congestive) 
Physicians should use caution when using Enbrel in patients who have congestive heart failure (CHF). 
There have been postmarketing reports of worsening of CHF, with and without identifiable 
precipitating factors, in patients taking Enbrel. There have also been rare (< 0.1%) reports of new 
onset CHF, including CHF in patients without known pre-existing cardiovascular disease. Some of 
these patients have been under 50 years of age. Two large clinical trials evaluating the use of Enbrel in 
the treatment of CHF were terminated early due to lack of efficacy. Although not conclusive, data 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
from one of these trials suggest a possible tendency toward worsening CHF in those patients assigned 
to Enbrel treatment.  
Alcoholic hepatitis 
In a phase II randomised placebo-controlled study of 48 hospitalised patients treated with Enbrel or 
placebo for moderate to severe alcoholic hepatitis, Enbrel was not efficacious, and the mortality rate in 
patients treated with Enbrel was significantly higher after 6 months. Consequently, Enbrel should not 
be used in patients for the treatment of alcoholic hepatitis. Physicians should use caution when using 
Enbrel in patients who also have moderate to severe alcoholic hepatitis. 
Wegener's granulomatosis 
A placebo-controlled trial, in which 89 adult patients were treated with Enbrel in addition to standard 
therapy (including cyclophosphamide or methotrexate, and glucocorticoids) for a median duration of 
25 months, has not shown Enbrel to be an effective treatment for Wegener’s granulomatosis. The 
incidence of non-cutaneous malignancies of various types was significantly higher in patients treated 
with Enbrel than in the control group. Enbrel is not recommended for the treatment of Wegener’s 
granulomatosis. 
Hypoglycaemia in patients treated for diabetes 
There have been reports of hypoglycaemia following initiation of Enbrel in patients receiving 
medication for diabetes, necessitating a reduction in anti-diabetic medication in some of these patients. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
In the Phase 3 studies in rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis, no overall 
differences in adverse events, serious adverse events, and serious infections in patients age 65 or older 
who received Enbrel were observed compared with younger patients. However, caution should be 
exercised when treating the elderly and particular attention paid with respect to occurrence of 
infections. 
Paediatric population 
Vaccinations 
It is recommended that paediatric patients, if possible, be brought up to date with all immunisations in 
agreement with current immunisation guidelines prior to initiating Enbrel therapy (see Vaccinations, 
above). 
Sodium content 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dosage unit. Patients on low 
sodium diets can be informed that this medicinal product is essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Concurrent treatment with anakinra  
Adult patients treated with Enbrel and anakinra were observed to have a higher rate of serious 
infection when compared with patients treated with either Enbrel or anakinra alone (historical data). 
In addition, in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in adult patients receiving background 
methotrexate, patients treated with Enbrel and anakinra were observed to have a higher rate of serious 
infections (7%) and neutropenia than patients treated with Enbrel (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). The 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
combination Enbrel and anakinra has not demonstrated increased clinical benefit, and is therefore not 
recommended. 
Concurrent treatment with abatacept  
In clinical studies, concurrent administration of abatacept and Enbrel resulted in increased incidences 
of serious adverse events. This combination has not demonstrated increased clinical benefit; such use 
is not recommended (see section 4.4).  
Concurrent treatment with sulfasalazine  
In a clinical study of adult patients who were receiving established doses of sulfasalazine, to which 
Enbrel was added, patients in the combination group experienced a statistically significant decrease in 
mean white blood cell counts in comparison to groups treated with Enbrel or sulfasalazine alone. The 
clinical significance of this interaction is unknown. Physicians should use caution when considering 
combination therapy with sulfasalazine. 
Non-interactions 
In clinical trials, no interactions have been observed when Enbrel was administered with 
glucocorticoids, salicylates (except sulfasalazine), nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), 
analgesics, or methotrexate. See section 4.4 for vaccination advice. 
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions were observed in studies with 
methotrexate, digoxin or warfarin. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should consider the use of appropriate contraception to avoid 
becoming pregnant during Enbrel therapy and for three weeks after discontinuation of therapy. 
Pregnancy  
Developmental toxicity studies performed in rats and rabbits have revealed no evidence of harm to the 
foetus or neonatal rat due to etanercept. The effects of etanercept on pregnancy outcomes have been 
investigated in two observational cohort studies. A higher rate of major birth defects was observed in 
one observational study comparing pregnancies exposed to etanercept (n=370) during the first 
trimester with pregnancies not exposed to etanercept or other TNF-antagonists (n=164) (adjusted odds 
ratio 2.4, 95% CI: 1.0-5.5). The types of major birth defects were consistent with those most 
commonly reported in the general population and no particular pattern of abnormalities was identified. 
No change in the rate of spontaneous abortion, stillbirth, or minor malformations was observed. In 
another observational multi-country registry study comparing the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes 
in women exposed to etanercept during the first 90 days of pregnancy (n=425) to those exposed to 
non-biologic drugs (n=3497), there was no observed increased risk of major birth defects (crude odds 
ratio [OR]= 1.22, 95% CI: 0.79-1.90; adjusted OR = 0.96, 95% CI: 0.58-1.60 after adjusting for 
country, maternal disease, parity, maternal age and smoking in early pregnancy). This study also 
showed no increased risks of minor birth defects, preterm birth, stillbirth, or infections in the first year 
of life for infants born to women exposed to etanercept during pregnancy. Enbrel should only be used 
during pregnancy if clearly needed. 
Etanercept crosses the placenta and has been detected in the serum of infants born to female patients 
treated with Enbrel during pregnancy. The clinical impact of this is unknown, however, infants may be 
at increased risk of infection. Administration of live vaccines to infants for 16 weeks after the 
mother’s last dose of Enbrel is generally not recommended. 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding 
In lactating rats following subcutaneous administration, etanercept was excreted in the milk and 
detected in the serum of pups. Limited information from the published literature indicates etanercept 
has been detected at low levels in human milk. Etanercept could be considered for use during 
breast-feeding taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy 
for the woman. 
While systemic exposure in a breastfed infant is expected to be low because etanercept is largely 
degraded in the gastrointestinal tract, limited data regarding systemic exposure in the breastfed infant 
are available. Therefore, the administration of live vaccines (e.g., BCG) to a breastfed infant when the 
mother is receiving etanercept could be considered 16 weeks after stopping breast-feeding (or at an 
earlier timepoint if the infant etanercept serum levels are undetectable).  
Fertility 
Preclinical data about peri- and postnatal toxicity of etanercept and of effects of etanercept on fertility 
and general reproductive performance are not available. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Enbrel has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are injection site reactions (such as pain, swelling, 
itching, reddening and bleeding at the puncture site), infections (such as upper respiratory infections, 
bronchitis, bladder infections and skin infections), headache, allergic reactions, development of 
autoantibodies, itching, and fever. 
Serious adverse reactions have also been reported for Enbrel. TNF-antagonists, such as Enbrel, affect 
the immune system and their use may affect the body’s defenses against infection and cancer. Serious 
infections affect fewer than 1 in 100 patients treated with Enbrel. Reports have included fatal and 
life-threatening infections and sepsis. Various malignancies have also been reported with use of 
Enbrel, including cancers of the breast, lung, skin and lymph glands (lymphoma).   
Serious haematological, neurological and autoimmune reactions have also been reported. These 
include rare reports of pancytopenia and very rare reports of aplastic anaemia. Central and peripheral 
demyelinating events have been seen rarely and very rarely, respectively, with Enbrel use. There have 
been rare reports of lupus, lupus-related conditions, and vasculitis. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following list of adverse reactions is based on experience from clinical trials and on 
postmarketing experience. 
Within the organ system classes, adverse reactions are listed under headings of frequency (number of 
patients expected to experience the reaction), using the following categories: very common (≥ 1/10); 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very 
rare (< 1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ 
Class 
Very 
Common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to 
< 1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000 
Very Rare 
< 1/10,000 
Infection 
(including 
upper 
respiratory 
tract 
infection, 
bronchitis, 
cystitis, 
skin 
infection)* 
Infections and 
infestations 
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified 
(including 
cysts and 
polyps) 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders 
Immune 
system 
disorders 
Nervous 
system 
disorders  
Headache 
Serious 
infections 
(including 
pneumonia, 
cellulitis, 
arthritis 
bacterial, sepsis 
and parasitic 
infection)* 
Non-melanoma 
skin cancers* 
(see section 4.4) 
Tuberculosis, 
opportunistic 
infection (including 
invasive fungal, 
protozoal, bacterial, 
atypical 
mycobacterial, viral 
infections, and 
Legionella)* 
Malignant melanoma 
(see section 4.4), 
lymphoma, 
leukaemia  
Thrombocytope
nia, anaemia, 
leukopenia, 
neutropenia 
Pancytopenia* 
Aplastic 
anaemia* 
Allergic 
reactions (see 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue 
disorders), 
autoantibody 
formation* 
Vasculitis 
(including anti-
neutrophilic 
cytoplasmic 
antibody positive 
vasculitis) 
Serious 
allergic/anaphylactic 
reactions (including 
angioedema, 
bronchospasm), 
sarcoidosis 
Not Known 
(Cannot be 
Estimated from 
Available Data) 
Hepatitis B 
reactivation, listeria 
Merkel cell 
carcinoma (see 
section 4.4), 
Kaposi’s sarcoma 
Histiocytosis 
haematophagic 
(macrophage 
activation 
syndrome)* 
Worsening of 
symptoms of 
dermatomyositis 
CNS demyelinating 
events suggestive of 
multiple sclerosis or 
localised 
demyelinating 
conditions, such as 
optic neuritis and 
transverse myelitis 
(see section 4.4), 
peripheral 
demyelinating 
events, including 
Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, chronic 
inflammatory 
demyelinating 
polyneuropathy, 
demyelinating 
polyneuropathy, and 
multifocal motor 
neuropathy (see 
section 4.4), seizure 
New onset cardiac 
failure congestive 
(see section 4.4) 
Interstitial lung 
disease (including 
pneumonitis and 
pulmonary fibrosis)* 
Eye disorders  
Cardiac 
disorders  
Respiratory, 
thoracic, and 
mediastinal 
disorders  
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Uveitis, scleritis 
Worsening of 
cardiac failure 
congestive (see 
section 4.4) 
Inflammatory 
bowel disease 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ 
Class 
Very 
Common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to 
< 1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000 
Very Rare 
< 1/10,000 
Not Known 
(Cannot be 
Estimated from 
Available Data) 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders  
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders  
Musculoskeleta
l and 
connective 
tissue disorders  
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions  
Elevated liver 
enzymes* 
Pruritus, rash  Angioedema, 
psoriasis 
(including new 
onset or 
worsening and 
pustular, 
primarily palms 
and soles), 
urticaria, 
psoriasiform 
rash 
Toxic 
epidermal 
necrolysis 
Autoimmune 
hepatitis* 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, cutaneous 
vasculitis (including 
hypersensitivity 
vasculitis), erythema 
multiforme, 
lichenoid reactions  
Cutaneous lupus 
erythematosus, 
subacute cutaneous 
lupus erythematosus, 
lupus-like syndrome 
Glomerulonephritis 
Pyrexia 
Injection 
site 
reactions 
(including 
bleeding, 
bruising, 
erythema, 
itching, 
pain, 
swelling)* 
*see Description of selected adverse reactions, below. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
One hundred and twenty-nine (129) new malignancies of various types were observed in 4,114 
rheumatoid arthritis patients treated in clinical trials with Enbrel for up to approximately 6 years, 
including 231 patients treated with Enbrel in combination with methotrexate in the 2-year 
active-controlled study. The observed rates and incidences in these clinical trials were similar to those 
expected for the population studied. A total of 2 malignancies were reported in clinical studies of 
approximately 2 years duration involving 240 Enbrel-treated psoriatic arthritis patients. In clinical 
studies conducted for more than 2 years with 351 ankylosing spondylitis patients, 6 malignancies were 
reported in Enbrel-treated patients. In a group of 2,711 plaque psoriasis patients treated with Enbrel in 
double-blind and open-label studies of up to 2.5 years, 30 malignancies and 43 nonmelanoma skin 
cancers were reported. 
In a group of 7,416 patients treated with Enbrel in rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing 
spondylitis and psoriasis clinical trials, 18 lymphomas were reported. 
Reports of various malignancies (including breast and lung carcinoma and lymphoma) have also been 
received in the postmarketing period (see section 4.4). 
Injection site reactions 
Compared to placebo, patients with rheumatic diseases treated with Enbrel had a significantly higher 
incidence of injection site reactions (36% vs. 9%). Injection site reactions usually occurred in the first 
month. Mean duration was approximately 3 to 5 days. No treatment was given for the majority of 
injection site reactions in the Enbrel treatment groups, and the majority of patients who were given 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment received topical preparations, such as corticosteroids, or oral antihistamines. Additionally, 
some patients developed recall injection site reactions characterised by a skin reaction at the most 
recent site of injection, along with the simultaneous appearance of injection site reactions at previous 
injection sites. These reactions were generally transient and did not recur with treatment. 
In controlled trials in patients with plaque psoriasis, approximately 13.6% of patients treated with 
Enbrel developed injection site reactions compared with 3.4% of placebo-treated patients during the 
first 12 weeks of treatment. 
Serious infections 
In placebo-controlled trials, no increase in the incidence of serious infections (fatal, life-threatening, or 
requiring hospitalisation or intravenous antibiotics) was observed. Serious infections occurred in 6.3% 
of rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with Enbrel for up to 48 months. These included abscess (at 
various sites), bacteraemia, bronchitis, bursitis, cellulitis, cholecystitis, diarrhoea, diverticulitis, 
endocarditis (suspected), gastroenteritis, hepatitis B, herpes zoster, leg ulcer, mouth infection, 
osteomyelitis, otitis, peritonitis, pneumonia, pyelonephritis, sepsis, septic arthritis, sinusitis, skin 
infection, skin ulcer, urinary tract infection, vasculitis, and wound infection. In the 2-year 
active-controlled study where patients were treated with either Enbrel alone, methotrexate alone or 
Enbrel in combination with methotrexate, the rates of serious infections were similar among the 
treatment groups. However, it cannot be excluded that the combination of Enbrel with methotrexate 
could be associated with an increase in the rate of infections. 
There were no differences in rates of infection among patients treated with Enbrel and those treated 
with placebo for plaque psoriasis in placebo-controlled trials of up to 24 weeks duration. Serious 
infections experienced by Enbrel-treated patients included cellulitis, gastroenteritis, pneumonia, 
cholecystitis, osteomyelitis, gastritis, appendicitis, Streptococcal fasciitis, myositis, septic shock, 
diverticulitis and abscess. In the double-blind and open-label psoriatic arthritis trials, 1 patient reported 
a serious infection (pneumonia). 
Serious and fatal infections have been reported during use of Enbrel; reported pathogens include 
bacteria, mycobacteria (including tuberculosis), viruses and fungi. Some have occurred within a few 
weeks after initiating treatment with Enbrel in patients who have underlying conditions (e.g., diabetes, 
congestive heart failure, history of active or chronic infections) in addition to their rheumatoid arthritis 
(see section 4.4). Enbrel treatment may increase mortality in patients with established sepsis. 
Opportunistic infections have been reported in association with Enbrel, including invasive fungal, 
parasitic (including protozoal), viral (including herpes zoster), bacterial (including Listeria and 
Legionella), and atypical mycobacterial infections. In a pooled data set of clinical trials, the overall 
incidence of opportunistic infections was 0.09% for the 15,402 subjects who received Enbrel. The 
exposure-adjusted rate was 0.06 events per 100 patient-years. In postmarketing experience, 
approximately half of all of the case reports of opportunistic infections worldwide were invasive 
fungal infections. The most commonly reported invasive fungal infections included Candida, 
Pneumocystis, Aspergillus, and Histoplasma. Invasive fungal infections accounted for more than half 
of the fatalities amongst patients who developed opportunistic infections. The majority of the reports 
with a fatal outcome were in patients with Pneumocystis pneumonia, unspecified systemic fungal 
infections, and aspergillosis (see section 4.4). 
Autoantibodies 
Adult patients had serum samples tested for autoantibodies at multiple timepoints. Of the rheumatoid 
arthritis patients evaluated for antinuclear antibodies (ANA), the percentage of patients who developed 
new positive ANA (≥1:40) was higher in patients treated with Enbrel (11%) than in placebo-treated 
patients (5%). The percentage of patients who developed new positive anti-double-stranded DNA 
antibodies was also higher by radioimmunoassay (15% of patients treated with Enbrel compared to 4% 
of placebo-treated patients) and by Crithidia luciliae assay (3% of patients treated with Enbrel 
compared to none of placebo-treated patients). The proportion of patients treated with Enbrel who 
developed anticardiolipin antibodies was similarly increased compared to placebo-treated patients. 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The impact of long-term treatment with Enbrel on the development of autoimmune diseases is 
unknown. 
There have been rare reports of patients, including rheumatoid factor positive patients, who have 
developed other autoantibodies in conjunction with a lupus-like syndrome or rashes that are 
compatible with subacute cutaneous lupus or discoid lupus by clinical presentation and biopsy. 
Pancytopenia and aplastic anaemia 
There have been postmarketing reports of pancytopenia and aplastic anaemia, some of which had fatal 
outcomes (see section 4.4). 
Interstitial lung disease 
In controlled clinical trials of etanercept across all indications, the frequency (incidence proportion) of 
interstitial lung disease in patients receiving etanercept without concomitant methotrexate was 0.06% 
(frequency rare). In the controlled clinical trials that allowed concomitant treatment with etanercept 
and methotrexate, the frequency (incidence proportion) of interstitial lung disease was 0.47% 
(frequency uncommon). There have been postmarketing reports of interstitial lung disease (including 
pneumonitis and pulmonary fibrosis), some of which had fatal outcomes. 
Concurrent treatment with anakinra  
In studies when adult patients received concurrent treatment with Enbrel plus anakinra, a higher rate of 
serious infections compared to Enbrel alone was observed and 2% of patients (3/139) developed 
neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count < 1000/mm3). While neutropenic, one patient developed 
cellulitis that resolved after hospitalisation (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Elevated liver enzymes 
In the double-blind periods of controlled clinical trials of etanercept across all indications, the 
frequency (incidence proportion) of adverse events of elevated liver enzymes in patients receiving 
etanercept without concomitant methotrexate was 0.54% (frequency uncommon). In the double-blind 
periods of controlled clinical trials that allowed concomitant treatment with etanercept and 
methotrexate, the frequency (incidence proportion) of adverse events of elevated liver enzymes was 
4.18% (frequency common). 
Autoimmune hepatitis 
In controlled clinical trials of etanercept across all indications, the frequency (incidence proportion) of 
autoimmune hepatitis in patients receiving etanercept without concomitant methotrexate was 0.02% 
(frequency rare). In the controlled clinical trials that allowed concomitant treatment with etanercept 
and methotrexate, the frequency (incidence proportion) of autoimmune hepatitis was 0.24% 
(frequency uncommon).  
Paediatric population 
Undesirable effects in paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
In general, the adverse events in paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis were similar in 
frequency and type to those seen in adult patients. Differences from adults and other special 
considerations are discussed in the following paragraphs. 
The types of infections seen in clinical trials in juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients aged 2 to 18 years 
were generally mild to moderate and consistent with those commonly seen in outpatient paediatric 
populations. Severe adverse events reported included varicella with signs and symptoms of aseptic 
meningitis, which resolved without sequelae (see also section 4.4), appendicitis, gastroenteritis, 
depression/personality disorder, cutaneous ulcer, oesophagitis/gastritis, group A streptococcal septic 
shock, type I diabetes mellitus, and soft tissue and post-operative wound infection. 
In one study in children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis aged 4 to 17 years, 43 of 69 (62%) children 
experienced an infection while receiving Enbrel during 3 months of the study (part 1, open-label), and 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the frequency and severity of infections was similar in 58 patients completing 12 months of open-label 
extension therapy. The types and proportion of adverse events in juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients 
were similar to those seen in trials of Enbrel in adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and the 
majority were mild. Several adverse events were reported more commonly in 69 juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis patients receiving 3 months of Enbrel compared to the 349 adult rheumatoid arthritis patients. 
These included headache (19% of patients, 1.7 events per patient year), nausea (9%, 1.0 event per 
patient year), abdominal pain (19%, 0.74 events per patient year), and vomiting (13%, 0.74 events per 
patient year). 
There were 4 reports of macrophage activation syndrome in juvenile idiopathic arthritis clinical trials. 
Undesirable effects in paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
In a 48-week study in 211 children aged 4 to 17 years with paediatric plaque psoriasis, the adverse 
events reported were similar to those seen in previous studies in adults with plaque psoriasis. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No dose-limiting toxicities were observed during clinical trials of rheumatoid arthritis patients. The 
highest dose level evaluated has been an intravenous loading dose of 32 mg/m2 followed by 
subcutaneous doses of 16 mg/m2 administered twice weekly. One rheumatoid arthritis patient 
mistakenly self-administered 62 mg Enbrel subcutaneously twice weekly for 3 weeks without 
experiencing undesirable effects. There is no known antidote to Enbrel. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF-α) inhibitors, 
ATC code: L04AB01 
Tumour necrosis factor (TNF) is a dominant cytokine in the inflammatory process of rheumatoid 
arthritis. Elevated levels of TNF are also found in the synovium and psoriatic plaques of patients with 
psoriatic arthritis and in serum and synovial tissue of patients with ankylosing spondylitis. In plaque 
psoriasis, infiltration by inflammatory cells, including T-cells, leads to increased TNF levels in 
psoriatic lesions compared with levels in uninvolved skin. Etanercept is a competitive inhibitor of 
TNF binding to its cell surface receptors, and thereby inhibits the biological activity of TNF. TNF and 
lymphotoxin are pro-inflammatory cytokines that bind to two distinct cell surface receptors: the 
55-kilodalton (p55) and 75-kilodalton (p75) tumour necrosis factor receptors (TNFRs). Both TNFRs 
exist naturally in membrane-bound and soluble forms. Soluble TNFRs are thought to regulate TNF 
biological activity. 
TNF and lymphotoxin exist predominantly as homotrimers, with their biological activity dependent on 
cross-linking of cell surface TNFRs. Dimeric soluble receptors, such as etanercept, possess a higher 
affinity for TNF than monomeric receptors and are considerably more potent competitive inhibitors of 
TNF binding to its cellular receptors. In addition, use of an immunoglobulin Fc region as a fusion 
element in the construction of a dimeric receptor imparts a longer serum half-life. 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mechanism of action 
Much of the joint pathology in rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis and skin pathology in 
plaque psoriasis is mediated by pro-inflammatory molecules that are linked in a network controlled by 
TNF. The mechanism of action of etanercept is thought to be its competitive inhibition of TNF 
binding to cell surface TNFR, preventing TNF-mediated cellular responses by rendering TNF 
biologically inactive. Etanercept may also modulate biologic responses controlled by additional 
downstream molecules (e.g., cytokines, adhesion molecules, or proteinases) that are induced or 
regulated by TNF. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
This section presents data from four randomised controlled trials in adults with rheumatoid arthritis, 
one study in adults with psoriatic arthritis, one study in adults with ankylosing spondylitis, two studies 
in adults with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis, four studies in adults with plaque psoriasis, 
three studies in juvenile idiopathic arthritis and one study in paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis. 
Adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis 
The efficacy of Enbrel was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The 
study evaluated 234 adult patients with active rheumatoid arthritis who had failed therapy with at least 
one but no more than four disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Doses of 10 mg or 
25 mg Enbrel or placebo were administered subcutaneously twice a week for 6 consecutive months. 
The results of this controlled trial were expressed in percentage improvement in rheumatoid arthritis 
using American College of Rheumatology (ACR) response criteria.  
ACR 20 and 50 responses were higher in patients treated with Enbrel at 3 and 6 months than in 
patients treated with placebo (ACR 20: Enbrel 62% and 59%, placebo 23% and 11% at 3 and 
6 months, respectively: ACR 50: Enbrel 41% and 40%, placebo 8% and 5% at months 3 and 6, 
respectively; p<0.01 Enbrel vs. placebo at all timepoints for both ACR 20 and ACR 50 responses).  
Approximately 15% of subjects who received Enbrel achieved an ACR 70 response at month 3 and 
month 6 compared to fewer than 5% of subjects in the placebo arm. Among patients receiving Enbrel, 
the clinical responses generally appeared within 1 to 2 weeks after initiation of therapy and nearly 
always occurred by 3 months. A dose response was seen; results with 10 mg were intermediate 
between placebo and 25 mg. Enbrel was significantly better than placebo in all components of the 
ACR criteria, as well as other measures of rheumatoid arthritis disease activity not included in the 
ACR response criteria, such as morning stiffness. A Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), which 
included disability, vitality, mental health, general health status, and arthritis-associated health status 
subdomains, was administered every 3 months during the trial. All subdomains of the HAQ were 
improved in patients treated with Enbrel compared to controls at 3 and 6 months.  
After discontinuation of Enbrel, symptoms of arthritis generally returned within a month. 
Re-introduction of treatment with Enbrel after discontinuation of up to 24 months resulted in the same 
magnitudes of responses as patients who received Enbrel without interruption of therapy based on 
results of open-label studies. Continued durable responses have been seen for up to 10 years in 
open-label extension treatment trials when patients received Enbrel without interruption.  
The efficacy of Enbrel was compared to methotrexate in a randomised, active-controlled study with 
blinded radiographic evaluations as a primary endpoint in 632 adult patients with active rheumatoid 
arthritis (<3 years duration) who had never received treatment with methotrexate. Doses of 10 mg or 
25 mg Enbrel were administered subcutaneously (SC) twice a week for up to 24 months. Methotrexate 
doses were escalated from 7.5 mg/week to a maximum of 20 mg/week over the first 8 weeks of the 
trial and continued for up to 24 months. Clinical improvement, including onset of action within 
2 weeks with Enbrel 25 mg, was similar to that seen in the previous trials and was maintained for up to 
24 months. At baseline, patients had a moderate degree of disability, with mean HAQ scores of 1.4 to 
1.5. Treatment with Enbrel 25 mg resulted in substantial improvement at 12 months, with about 44% 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of patients achieving a normal HAQ score (less than 0.5). This benefit was maintained in Year 2 of 
this study. 
In this study, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in Total 
Sharp Score (TSS) and its components, the erosion score and Joint Space Narrowing (JSN) score. 
Radiographs of hands/wrists and feet were read at baseline and 6, 12, and 24 months. The 10 mg 
Enbrel dose had consistently less effect on structural damage than the 25 mg dose. Enbrel 25 mg was 
significantly superior to methotrexate for erosion scores at both 12 and 24 months. The differences in 
TSS and JSN were not statistically significant between methotrexate and Enbrel 25 mg. The results are 
shown in the figure below. 
Radiographic Progression: Comparison of Enbrel vs. Methotrexate in Patients with RA of 
<3 Years Duration 
12 Months
1.3
0.9
0.8
0.4*
0.4 0.4
e
n
i
l
e
s
a
B
m
o
r
f
e
g
n
a
h
C
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
24 Months
2.2
1.3
1.2
0.9
0.6*
0.6
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
TSS Erosions
JSN
TSS
Erosions
JSN
MTX
Enbrel 25 mg
*p < 0.05
In another active-controlled, double-blind, randomised study, clinical efficacy, safety, and 
radiographic progression in RA patients treated with Enbrel alone (25 mg twice weekly), methotrexate 
alone (7.5 to 20 mg weekly, median dose 20 mg), and the combination of Enbrel and methotrexate 
initiated concurrently were compared in 682 adult patients with active rheumatoid arthritis of 6 months 
to 20 years duration (median 5 years) who had a less than satisfactory response to at least 1 
disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) other than methotrexate. 
Patients in the Enbrel in combination with methotrexate therapy group had significantly higher 
ACR 20, ACR 50, ACR 70 responses and improvement for DAS and HAQ scores at both 24 and 
52 weeks than patients in either of the single therapy groups (results shown in table below). 
Significant advantages for Enbrel in combination with methotrexate compared with Enbrel 
monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy were also observed after 24 months. 
Clinical Efficacy Results at 12 Months: Comparison of Enbrel vs. Methotrexate vs. Enbrel 
in Combination with Methotrexate in Patients with RA of 6 Months To 20 Years Duration 
Endpoint 
Methotrexate 
(n = 228) 
Enbrel 
(n = 223) 
ACR Responsesa  
ACR 20 
ACR 50 
ACR 70 
58.8% 
36.4% 
16.7% 
65.5% 
43.0% 
22.0% 
78 
Enbrel + 
Methotrexate 
(n = 231) 
74.5% †,φ 
63.2% †,φ 
39.8% †,φ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical Efficacy Results at 12 Months: Comparison of Enbrel vs. Methotrexate vs. Enbrel 
in Combination with Methotrexate in Patients with RA of 6 Months To 20 Years Duration 
Endpoint 
DAS 
Baseline 
scoreb 
Week 52 
scoreb 
Remissionc 
HAQ 
Baseline 
Week 52 
Methotrexate 
(n = 228) 
Enbrel 
(n = 223) 
5.5 
3.0 
14% 
1.7 
1.1 
5.7 
3.0 
18% 
1.7 
1.0 
Enbrel + 
Methotrexate 
(n = 231) 
5.5 
2.3†,φ 
37%†,φ 
1.8 
0.8†,φ 
a: Patients who did not complete 12 months in the study were considered to be non-responders. 
b: Values for Disease Activity Score (DAS) are means. 
c: Remission is defined as DAS <1.6. 
Pairwise comparison p-values: † = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs. 
methotrexate and φ = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs. Enbrel. 
Radiographic progression at 12 months was significantly less in the Enbrel group than in the 
methotrexate group, while the combination was significantly better than either monotherapy at 
slowing radiographic progression (see figure below). 
Radiographic Progression: Comparison of Enbrel vs. Methotrexate vs. Enbrel in Combination 
with Methotrexate in Patients with RA of 6 Months To 20 Years Duration (12 Month Results) 
e
n
i
l
e
s
a
B
m
o
r
f
e
g
n
a
h
C
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
-0.5
-1.0
2.80
Methotrexate
Enbrel 
Enbrel + Methotrexate
1.68
1.12
0.52*
0.21*
0.32
-0.30†
-0.23†,φ
-0.54†,φ
TSS
Erosions
JSN
Pairwise comparison p-values: * = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel vs. 
methotrexate, † = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs. 
methotrexate and φ = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs. 
Enbrel. 
Significant advantages for Enbrel in combination with methotrexate compared with Enbrel 
monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy were also observed after 24 months. Similarly, the 
significant advantages for Enbrel monotherapy compared with methotrexate monotherapy were also 
observed after 24 months. 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In an analysis in which all patients who dropped out of the study for any reason were considered to 
have progressed, the percentage of patients without progression (TSS change ≤ 0.5) at 24 months was 
higher in the Enbrel in combination with methotrexate group compared with the Enbrel alone and 
methotrexate alone groups (62%, 50%, and 36%, respectively; p< 0.05). The difference between 
Enbrel alone and methotrexate alone was also significant (p< 0.05). Among patients who completed a 
full 24 months of therapy in the study, the non-progression rates were 78%, 70%, and 61%, 
respectively. 
The safety and efficacy of 50 mg Enbrel (two 25 mg SC injections) administered once weekly were 
evaluated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 420 patients with active RA. In this study, 53 
patients received placebo, 214 patients received 50 mg Enbrel once weekly and 153 patients received 
25 mg Enbrel twice weekly. The safety and efficacy profiles of the two Enbrel treatment regimens 
were comparable at week 8 in their effect on signs and symptoms of RA; data at week 16 did not show 
comparability (non-inferiority) between the two regimens. 
Adult patients with psoriatic arthritis 
The efficacy of Enbrel was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in 205 
patients with psoriatic arthritis. Patients were between 18 and 70 years of age and had active psoriatic 
arthritis (≥ 3 swollen joints and ≥ 3 tender joints) in at least one of the following forms: (1) distal 
interphalangeal (DIP) involvement; (2) polyarticular arthritis (absence of rheumatoid nodules and 
presence of psoriasis); (3) arthritis mutilans; (4) asymmetric psoriatic arthritis; or (5) spondylitis-like 
ankylosis. Patients also had plaque psoriasis with a qualifying target lesion ≥ 2 cm in diameter. 
Patients had previously been treated with NSAIDs (86%), DMARDs (80%), and corticosteroids 
(24%). Patients currently on methotrexate therapy (stable for ≥ 2 months) could continue at a stable 
dose of ≤ 25 mg/week methotrexate. Doses of 25 mg of Enbrel (based on dose-finding studies in 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis) or placebo were administered SC twice a week for 6 months. At the 
end of the double-blind study, patients could enter a long-term open-label extension study for a total 
duration of up to 2 years. 
Clinical responses were expressed as percentages of patients achieving the ACR 20, 50, and 70 
response and percentages with improvement in Psoriatic Arthritis Response Criteria (PsARC). Results 
are summarised in the table below. 
Responses of Patients with Psoriatic Arthritis in a 
Placebo-Controlled Trial 
  Psoriatic Arthritis Response 
Percent of Patients 
Placebo 
n = 104 
Enbrela 
n = 101 
  ACR 20 
     Month 3 
     Month 6 
  ACR 50 
     Month 3 
     Month 6 
  ACR 70 
     Month 3 
     Month 6 
  PsARC 
     Month 3 
     Month 6 
59b 
50b 
38b 
37b 
11b 
9c 
72b 
70b 
15 
13 
4 
4 
0 
1 
31 
23 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Responses of Patients with Psoriatic Arthritis in a 
Placebo-Controlled Trial 
Percent of Patients 
Placebo 
n = 104 
Enbrela 
n = 101 
  Psoriatic Arthritis Response 
a: 25 mg Enbrel SC twice weekly 
b: p < 0.001, Enbrel vs. placebo 
c: p < 0.01, Enbrel vs. placebo 
Among patients with psoriatic arthritis who received Enbrel, the clinical responses were apparent at 
the time of the first visit (4 weeks) and were maintained through 6 months of therapy. Enbrel was 
significantly better than placebo in all measures of disease activity (p < 0.001), and responses were 
similar with and without concomitant methotrexate therapy. Quality of life in psoriatic arthritis 
patients was assessed at every timepoint using the disability index of the HAQ. The disability index 
score was significantly improved at all timepoints in psoriatic arthritis patients treated with Enbrel, 
relative to placebo (p < 0.001).  
Radiographic changes were assessed in the psoriatic arthritis study. Radiographs of hands and wrists 
were obtained at baseline and months 6, 12, and 24. The modified TSS at 12 months is presented in 
the table below. In an analysis in which all patients who dropped out of the study for any reason were 
considered to have progressed, the percentage of patients without progression (TSS change ≤ 0.5) at 
12 months was higher in the Enbrel group compared with the placebo group (73% vs. 47%, 
respectively, p ≤ 0.001). The effect of Enbrel on radiographic progression was maintained in patients 
who continued on treatment during the second year. The slowing of peripheral joint damage was 
observed in patients with polyarticular symmetrical joint involvement.   
Mean (SE) Annualized Change from Baseline in Total Sharp Score 
Time 
Month 12 
SE = standard error.   
a. p = 0.0001.   
Placebo 
(n = 104) 
1.00 (0.29) 
Etanercept 
(n = 101) 
-0.03 (0.09)a 
Enbrel treatment resulted in improvement in physical function during the double-blind period, and this 
benefit was maintained during the longer-term exposure of up to 2 years. 
There is insufficient evidence of the efficacy of Enbrel in patients with ankylosing spondylitis-like and 
arthritis mutilans psoriatic arthropathies due to the small number of patients studied. 
No study has been performed in patients with psoriatic arthritis using the 50 mg once-weekly dosing 
regimen. Evidence of efficacy for the once-weekly dosing regimen in this patient population has been 
based on data from the study in patients with ankylosing spondylitis. 
Adult patients with ankylosing spondylitis 
The efficacy of Enbrel in ankylosing spondylitis was assessed in 3 randomised, double-blind studies 
comparing twice-weekly administration of 25 mg Enbrel with placebo. A total of 401 patients were 
enrolled, from which 203 were treated with Enbrel. The largest of these trials (n= 277) enrolled 
patients who were between 18 and 70 years of age and had active ankylosing spondylitis defined as 
visual analog scale (VAS) scores of ≥ 30 for average of duration and intensity of morning stiffness 
plus VAS scores of ≥ 30 for at least 2 of the following 3 parameters: patient global assessment; 
average of VAS values for nocturnal back pain and total back pain; average of 10 questions on the 
Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index (BASFI). Patients receiving DMARDs, NSAIDS, or 
corticosteroids could continue them on stable doses. Patients with complete ankylosis of the spine 
were not included in the study. Doses of 25 mg of Enbrel (based on dose-finding studies in patients 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with rheumatoid arthritis) or placebo were administered subcutaneously twice a week for 6 months in 
138 patients. 
The primary measure of efficacy (ASAS 20) was a ≥20% improvement in at least 3 of the 4 
Assessment in Ankylosing Spondylitis (ASAS) domains (patient global assessments, back pain, 
BASFI, and inflammation) and absence of deterioration in the remaining domain. ASAS 50 and 70 
responses used the same criteria with a 50% improvement or a 70% improvement, respectively. 
Compared to placebo, treatment with Enbrel resulted in significant improvements in the ASAS 20, 
ASAS 50 and ASAS 70 as early as 2 weeks after the initiation of therapy. 
Responses of Patients with Ankylosing Spondylitis in a 
Placebo-controlled Trial 
  Ankylosing Spondylitis 
Response 
  ASAS 20  
  2 weeks 
  3 months 
  6 months 
  ASAS 50  
  2 weeks 
  3 months 
  6 months 
  ASAS 70 
  2 weeks 
  3 months 
  6 months  
 a: p <0.001, Enbrel vs. placebo 
 b: p = 0.002, Enbrel vs. placebo 
Percent of Patients 
Placebo 
N = 139 
Enbrel 
N = 138 
22 
27 
23 
7 
13 
10 
2 
7 
5 
46a 
60a 
58a 
24a 
45a 
42a 
12b 
29b 
28b 
Among patients with ankylosing spondylitis who received Enbrel, the clinical responses were apparent 
at the time of the first visit (2 weeks) and were maintained through 6 months of therapy. Responses 
were similar in patients who were or were not receiving concomitant therapies at baseline. 
Similar results were obtained in the 2 smaller ankylosing spondylitis trials. 
In a fourth study, the safety and efficacy of 50 mg Enbrel (two 25 mg SC injections) administered 
once weekly vs. 25 mg Enbrel administered twice weekly were evaluated in a double-blind, 
placebo-controlled study of 356 patients with active ankylosing spondylitis. The safety and efficacy 
profiles of the 50 mg once-weekly and 25 mg twice-weekly regimens were similar. 
Adult patients with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
Study 1 
The efficacy of Enbrel in patients with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (nr-AxSpa) was 
assessed in a randomised, 12-week double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The study evaluated 
215 adult patients (modified intent-to-treat population) with active nr-AxSpa (18 to 49 years of age), 
defined as those patients meeting the ASAS classification criteria of axial spondyloarthritis but did not 
meet the modified New York criteria for AS. Patients were also required to have an inadequate 
response or intolerance to two or more NSAIDs. In the double-blind period, patients received Enbrel 
50 mg weekly or placebo for 12 weeks. The primary measure of efficacy (ASAS 40) was a 40% 
improvement in at least three of the four ASAS domains and absence of deterioration in the remaining 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
domain. The double-blind period was followed by an open-label period during which all patients 
receive Enbrel 50 mg weekly for up to an additional 92 weeks. MRIs of the sacroiliac joint and spine 
were obtained to assess inflammation at baseline and at weeks 12 and 104. 
Compared to placebo, treatment with Enbrel resulted in statistically significant improvement in the 
ASAS 40, ASAS 20 and ASAS 5/6. Significant improvement was also observed for the ASAS partial 
remission and BASDAI 50. Week 12 results are shown in the table below. 
Efficacy Response in Placebo-Controlled nr-AxSpa Study: Percent of Patients Achieving 
Endpoints 
Double-Blind Clinical 
Responses at Week 12  
ASAS** 40 
ASAS 20 
ASAS 5/6 
ASAS partial remission 
BASDAI***50 
*Some patients did not provide complete data for each endpoint 
**ASAS=Assessments in Spondyloarthritis International Society 
***Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index 
a: p <0.001, b:<0.01 and c:<0.05, respectively between Enbrel and placebo 
Placebo 
N=106 to 109* 
15.7 
36.1 
10.4 
11.9 
23.9 
Enbrel 
N=103 to 105* 
32.4b 
52.4c 
33.0a 
24.8c 
43.8b 
At week 12, there was a statistically significant improvement in the SPARCC (Spondyloarthritis 
Research Consortium of Canada) score for the sacroiliac joint (SIJ) as measured by MRI for patients 
receiving Enbrel. Adjusted mean change from baseline was 3.8 for Enbrel treated (n=95) versus 0.8 
for placebo treated (n=105) patients (p<0.001). At week 104, the mean change from baseline in the 
SPARCC score measured on MRI for all Enbrel-treated subjects was 4.64 for the SIJ (n=153) and 
1.40 the spine (n=154). 
Enbrel showed statistically significantly greater improvement from baseline to week 12 compared to 
placebo in most health-related quality of life and physical function assessments, including BASFI 
(Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index), EuroQol 5D Overall Health State Score and SF-36 
Physical Component Score. 
Clinical responses among nr-AxSpa patients who received Enbrel were apparent at the time of the first 
visit (2 weeks) and were maintained through 2 years of therapy. Improvements in health-related 
quality of life and physical function were also maintained through 2 years of therapy. The 2 year data 
did not reveal any new safety findings. At week 104, 8 subjects had progressed to a score of bilateral 
Grade 2 on spinal X-ray according to the modified New York Radiological Grade, indicative of axial 
spondyloarthropathy. 
Study 2 
This multi-center, open-label, phase 4, 3-period study evaluated the withdrawal and retreatment of 
Enbrel in patients with active nr-AxSpa who achieved an adequate response (inactive disease defined 
as Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Score (ASDAS) C-reactive protein (CRP) less than 1.3) 
following 24 weeks of treatment.  
209 adult patients with active nr-AxSpa (18 to 49 years of age), defined as those patients meeting the 
Assessment of SpondyloArthritis International Society (ASAS) classification criteria of axial 
spondyloarthritis (but not meeting the modified New York criteria for AS), having positive MRI 
findings (active inflammation on MRI highly suggestive of sacroiliitis associated with SpA) and/or 
positive hsCRP (defined as high sensitivity C-reactive protein [hsCRP] >3 mg/l), and active symptoms 
defined by an ASDAS CRP greater than or equal to 2.1 at the screening visit received open-label 
Enbrel 50 mg weekly plus stable background NSAID at the optimal tolerated anti-inflammatory 
dosage for 24 weeks in Period 1. Patients were also required to have an inadequate response or 
intolerance to two or more NSAIDs. At week 24, 119 (57%) patients achieved inactive disease and 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
entered into the Period 2 40-week withdrawal phase where subjects discontinued etanercept, yet 
maintained the background NSAID. The primary measure of efficacy was the occurrence of flare 
(defined as an ASDAS erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) greater than or equal to 2.1) within 
40 weeks following withdrawal of Enbrel. Patients who flared were retreated with Enbrel 50 mg 
weekly for 12 weeks (Period 3). 
In Period 2, the proportion of patients experiencing ≥1 flare increased from 22% (25/112) at week 4 to 
67% (77/115) at week 40. Overall, 75% (86/115) patients experienced a flare at any time point within 
40 weeks following withdrawal of Enbrel.  
The key secondary objective of Study 2 was to estimate time to flare after withdrawal of Enbrel and 
additionally compare the time to flare to patients from Study 1 who met the Study 2 withdrawal phase 
entry requirements and continued Enbrel therapy.   
The median time to flare following withdrawal of Enbrel was 16 weeks (95% CI: 13-24 weeks). Less 
than 25% of patients in Study 1 who did not have treatment withdrawn experienced a flare over the 
equivalent 40-weeks as in Period 2 Study 2. The time to flare was statistically significantly shorter in 
subjects who discontinued Enbrel treatment (Study 2) compared to subjects who received continuous 
etanercept treatment (Study 1), p<0.0001. 
Of the 87 patients who entered Period 3 and were retreated with Enbrel 50 mg weekly for 12 weeks, 
62% (54/87) reachieved inactive disease, with 50% of them reachieving it within 5 weeks (95% CI: 
4-8 weeks). 
Adult patients with plaque psoriasis 
Enbrel is recommended for use in patients as defined in section 4.1. Patients who “failed to respond 
to” in the target population is defined by insufficient response (PASI<50 or PGA less than good), or 
worsening of the disease while on treatment, and who were adequately dosed for a sufficiently long 
duration to assess response with at least one of the three major systemic therapies as available. 
The efficacy of Enbrel versus other systemic therapies in patients with moderate to severe psoriasis 
(responsive to other systemic therapies) has not been evaluated in studies directly comparing Enbrel 
with other systemic therapies. Instead, the safety and efficacy of Enbrel were assessed in four 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. The primary efficacy endpoint in all four studies 
was the proportion of patients in each treatment group who achieved the PASI 75 (i.e., at least a 75% 
improvement in the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index score from baseline) at 12 weeks. 
Study 1 was a Phase 2 study in patients with active, but clinically stable, plaque psoriasis involving 
≥ 10% of the body surface area who were ≥ 18 years old. One hundred and twelve (112) patients were 
randomised to receive a dose of 25 mg of Enbrel (n=57) or placebo (n=55) twice a week for 24 weeks. 
Study 2 evaluated 652 patients with chronic plaque psoriasis using the same inclusion criteria as study 
1 with the addition of a minimum psoriasis area and severity index (PASI) of 10 at screening. Enbrel 
was administered at doses of 25 mg once a week, 25 mg twice a week or 50 mg twice a week for 
6 consecutive months. During the first 12 weeks of the double-blind treatment period, patients 
received placebo or one of the above three Enbrel doses. After 12 weeks of treatment, patients in the 
placebo group began treatment with blinded Enbrel (25 mg twice a week); patients in the active 
treatment groups continued to week 24 on the dose to which they were originally randomised. 
Study 3 evaluated 583 patients and had the same inclusion criteria as study 2. Patients in this study 
received a dose of 25 mg or 50 mg Enbrel, or placebo twice a week for 12 weeks and then all patients 
received open-label 25 mg Enbrel twice weekly for an additional 24 weeks. 
Study 4 evaluated 142 patients and had similar inclusion criteria to studies 2 and 3. Patients in this 
study received a dose of 50 mg Enbrel or placebo once weekly for 12 weeks and then all patients 
received open-label 50 mg Enbrel once weekly for an additional 12 weeks. 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In study 1, the Enbrel-treated group had a significantly higher proportion of patients with a PASI 75 
response at week 12 (30%) compared to the placebo-treated group (2%) (p < 0.0001). At 24 weeks, 
56% of patients in the Enbrel-treated group had achieved the PASI 75 compared to 5% of 
placebo-treated patients. Key results of studies 2, 3 and 4 are shown below. 
Responses of Patients with Psoriasis in Studies 2, 3 and 4 
Study 3 
--------Enbrel------- 
50 mg 
25 mg 
BIW 
BIW 
n = 196 
n = 196 
wk 12 
wk 12 
Placebo 
n = 193 
wk 12 
Placebo 
n = 46 
wk 12 
Study 4 
-------Enbrel------ 
50 mg 
50 mg 
QW 
QW 
n = 90 
n = 96 
wk 24a 
wk 12 
Placebo 
n = 166 
wk 12 
Study 2 
----------Enbrel--------- 
50 mg  
BIW 
25 mg  
BIW 
n = 
162 
wk 
12 
58* 
34* 
n = 
162 
wk 
24a 
70 
44 
n = 
164 
wk 
12 
74* 
49* 
n = 
164 
wk 
24a 
77 
59 
9 
3 
14 
4 
Respons
e (%) 
PASI 50 
PASI 75 
DSGA b, 
clear or 
almost 
clear 
*p ≤ 0.0001 compared with placebo 
a. No statistical comparisons to placebo were made at week 24 in studies 2 and 4 because the original 
placebo group began receiving Enbrel 25 mg BIW or 50 mg once weekly from week 13 to week 24. 
b. Dermatologist Static Global Assessment. Clear or almost clear defined as 0 or 1 on a 0 to 5 scale. 
77* 
49* 
64* 
34* 
69* 
38* 
57* 
39* 
39* 
34* 
49* 
9 
2 
55 
39 
5 
4 
4 
83 
71 
64 
Among patients with plaque psoriasis who received Enbrel, significant responses relative to placebo 
were apparent at the time of the first visit (2 weeks) and were maintained through 24 weeks of therapy. 
Study 2 also had a drug withdrawal period during which patients who achieved a PASI improvement 
of at least 50% at week 24 had treatment stopped. Patients were observed off treatment for the 
occurrence of rebound (PASI ≥ 150% of baseline) and for the time to relapse (defined as a loss of at 
least half of the improvement achieved between baseline and week 24). During the withdrawal period, 
symptoms of psoriasis gradually returned, with a median time to disease relapse of 3 months. No 
rebound flare of disease and no psoriasis-related serious adverse events were observed. There was 
some evidence to support a benefit of re-treatment with Enbrel in patients initially responding to 
treatment. 
In study 3, the majority of patients (77%) who were initially randomised to 50 mg twice weekly and 
had their Enbrel dose decreased at week 12 to 25 mg twice weekly maintained their PASI 75 response 
through week 36. For patients who received 25 mg twice weekly throughout the study, the PASI 75 
response continued to improve between weeks 12 and 36. 
In study 4, the Enbrel-treated group had a higher proportion of patients with PASI 75 at week 12 
(38%) compared to the placebo-treated group (2%) (p< 0.0001). For patients who received 50 mg once 
weekly throughout the study, the efficacy responses continued to improve with 71% achieving PASI 
75 at week 24. 
In long-term (up to 34 months) open-label studies where Enbrel was given without interruption, 
clinical responses were sustained and safety was comparable to shorter-term studies. 
An analysis of clinical trial data did not reveal any baseline disease characteristics that would assist 
clinicians in selecting the most appropriate dosing option (intermittent or continuous). Consequently, 
the choice of intermittent or continuous therapy should be based upon physician judgment and 
individual patient needs. 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Antibodies to Enbrel 
Antibodies to etanercept have been detected in the sera of some subjects treated with etanercept. 
These antibodies have all been non-neutralising and are generally transient. There appears to be no 
correlation between antibody development and clinical response or adverse events. 
In subjects treated with approved doses of etanercept in clinical trials for up to 12 months, cumulative 
rates of anti-etanercept antibodies were approximately 6% of subjects with rheumatoid arthritis, 7.5% 
of subjects with psoriatic arthritis, 2% of subjects with ankylosing spondylitis, 7% of subjects with 
psoriasis, 9.7% of subjects with paediatric psoriasis, and 4.8% of subjects with juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis.  
The proportion of subjects who developed antibodies to etanercept in longer-term trials (of up to 
3.5 years) increases over time, as expected. However, due to their transient nature, the incidence of 
antibodies detected at each assessment point was typically less than 7% in rheumatoid arthritis 
subjects and psoriasis subjects. 
In a long-term psoriasis study in which patients received 50 mg twice weekly for 96 weeks, the 
incidence of antibodies observed at each assessment point was up to approximately 9%. 
Paediatric population 
Paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
The safety and efficacy of Enbrel were assessed in a two-part study in 69 children with 
polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis who had a variety of juvenile idiopathic arthritis onset 
types (polyarthritis, pauciarthritis, systemic onset). Patients aged 4 to 17 years with moderately to 
severely active polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis refractory to, or intolerant of, 
methotrexate were enrolled; patients remained on a stable dose of a single nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drug and/or prednisone (< 0.2 mg/kg/day or 10 mg maximum). In part 1, all patients 
received 0.4 mg/kg (maximum 25 mg per dose) Enbrel subcutaneously twice weekly. In part 2, 
patients with a clinical response at day 90 were randomised to remain on Enbrel or receive placebo for 
four months and assessed for disease flare. Responses were measured using the ACR Pedi 30, defined 
as ≥ 30% improvement in at least three of six and ≥ 30% worsening in no more than one of six JRA 
core set criteria, including active joint count, limitation of motion, physician and patient/parent global 
assessments, functional assessment, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR). Disease flare was 
defined as a ≥ 30% worsening in three of six JRA core set criteria and ≥ 30% improvement in not 
more than one of the six JRA core set criteria and a minimum of two active joints. 
In part 1 of the study, 51 of 69 (74%) patients demonstrated a clinical response and entered part 2. In 
part 2, 6 of 25 (24%) patients remaining on Enbrel experienced a disease flare compared to 20 of 
26 (77%) patients receiving placebo (p=0.007). From the start of part 2, the median time to flare was 
≥ 116 days for patients who received Enbrel and 28 days for patients who received placebo. Of 
patients who demonstrated a clinical response at 90 days and entered part 2 of the study, some of the 
patients remaining on Enbrel continued to improve from month 3 through month 7, while those who 
received placebo did not improve. 
In an open-label, safety extension study, 58 paediatric patients from the above study (from the age of 
4 years at time of enrolment) continued to receive Enbrel for up to 10 years. Rates of serious adverse 
events and serious infections did not increase with long-term exposure. 
Long-term safety of Enbrel monotherapy (n=103), Enbrel plus methotrexate (n=294), or methotrexate 
monotherapy (n=197) were assessed for up to 3 years in a registry of 594 children aged 2 to 18 years 
with juvenile idiopathic arthritis, 39 of whom were 2 to 3 years of age. Overall, infections were more 
commonly reported in patients treated with etanercept compared to methotrexate alone (3.8 versus 
2%), and the infections associated with etanercept use were of a more severe nature. 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In another open-label single-arm study (n=127), 60 patients with extended oligoarthritis (EO) 
(15 patients aged 2 to 4, 23 patients aged 5 to 11 and 22 patients aged 12 to 17 years old), 38 patients 
with enthesitis-related arthritis (12 to 17 years old), and 29 patients with psoriatic arthritis (12 to 
17 years old) were treated with Enbrel at a dose of 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 50 mg per dose) 
administered weekly for 12 weeks. In each of the JIA subtypes, the majority of patients met ACR Pedi 
30 criteria and demonstrated clinical improvement in secondary endpoints such as number of tender 
joints and physician global assessment. The safety profile was consistent with that observed in other 
JIA studies.  
Of the 127 patients in the parent study, 109 participated in the open-label extension study and were 
followed for an additional 8 years for a total of up to 10 years. At the end of the extension study, 
84/109 (77%) patients had completed the study; 27 (25%) while actively taking Enbrel, 7 (6%) had 
withdrawn from treatment due to low/inactive disease; 5 (5%) had re-started Enbrel following an 
earlier withdrawal from treatment; and 45 (41%) had stopped Enbrel (but remained under 
observation); 25/109 (23%) patients permanently discontinued from the study. Improvements in 
clinical status achieved in the parent study were generally maintained for all efficacy endpoints during 
the entire follow-up period. Patients actively taking Enbrel could enter an optional withdrawal-
retreatment period once during the extension study based on investigator’s judgement of clinical 
response. 30 patients entered the withdrawal period. 17 patients were reported to have a flare (defined 
as ≥ 30% worsening in at least 3 of the 6 ACR Pedi components with ≥ 30% improvement in not more 
than 1 of the remaining 6 components and a minimum of 2 active joints); median time to flare after 
Enbrel withdrawal was 190 days. 13 patients were re-treated and the median time to re-treatment from 
withdrawal was estimated as 274 days. Due to the small number of data points, these results should be 
interpreted with caution. 
The safety profile was consistent with that observed in the parent study. 
Studies have not been done in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis to assess the effects of 
continued Enbrel therapy in patients who do not respond within 3 months of initiating Enbrel therapy. 
Additionally, studies have not been conducted to assess the effects of reducing the recommended dose 
of Enbrel following its long-term use in patients with JIA. 
Paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
The efficacy of Enbrel was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in 211 
paediatric patients aged 4 to 17 years with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis (as defined by an sPGA 
score ≥ 3, involving ≥ 10% of the BSA, and PASI ≥ 12). Eligible patients had a history of receiving 
phototherapy or systemic therapy, or were inadequately controlled on topical therapy. 
Patients received Enbrel 0.8 mg/kg (up to 50 mg) or placebo once weekly for 12 weeks. At week 12, 
more patients randomised to Enbrel had positive efficacy responses (e.g., PASI 75) than those 
randomised to placebo. 
 Paediatric Plaque Psoriasis Outcomes at 12 Weeks 
PASI 75, n (%) 
PASI 50, n (%) 
Enbrel 
0.8 mg/kg Once 
Weekly 
(N = 106) 
60 (57%)a 
79 (75%)a 
sPGA “clear” or “minimal”, n (%) 
Abbreviation: sPGA-static Physician Global Assessment 
a.  p < 0.0001 compared with placebo 
56 (53%)a 
87 
Placebo 
(N = 105) 
12 (11%) 
24 (23%) 
14 (13%) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After the 12-week double-blind treatment period, all patients received Enbrel 0.8 mg/kg (up to 50 mg) 
once weekly for additional 24 weeks. Responses observed during the open-label period were similar to 
those observed in the double-blind period. 
During a randomised withdrawal period, significantly more patients re-randomised to placebo 
experienced disease relapse (loss of PASI 75 response) compared with patients re-randomised to 
Enbrel. With continued therapy, responses were maintained up to 48 weeks.  
The long-term safety and effectiveness of Enbrel 0.8 mg/kg (up to 50 mg) once weekly was assessed in 
an open-label extension study of 181 paediatric subjects with plaque psoriasis for up to 2 years beyond 
the 48 week study discussed above. Long-term experience with Enbrel was generally comparable to the 
original 48-week study and did not reveal any new safety findings.  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Etanercept serum values were determined by an Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) 
method, which may detect ELISA-reactive degradation products, as well as the parent compound. 
Absorption 
Etanercept is slowly absorbed from the site of subcutaneous injection, reaching maximum 
concentration approximately 48 hours after a single dose. The absolute bioavailability is 76%. With 
twice-weekly doses, it is anticipated that steady-state concentrations are approximately twice as high 
as those observed after single doses. After a single subcutaneous dose of 25 mg Enbrel, the average 
maximum serum concentration observed in healthy volunteers was 1.65 ± 0.66 µg/ml, and the area 
under the curve was 235 ± 96.6 µg•hr/ml. 
Mean serum concentration profiles at steady state in treated RA patients were Cmax of 2.4 mg/l vs. 
2.6 mg/l, Cmin of 1.2 mg/l vs. 1.4 mg/l, and partial AUC of 297 mgh/l vs. 316 mgh/l for 50 mg Enbrel 
once weekly (n=21) vs. 25 mg Enbrel twice weekly (n=16), respectively. In an open-label, 
single-dose, two-treatment, crossover study in healthy volunteers, etanercept administered as a single 
50 mg/ml injection was found to be bioequivalent to two simultaneous injections of 25 mg/ml. 
In a population pharmacokinetics analysis in ankylosing spondylitis patients, the etanercept steady 
state AUCs were 466 µg•hr/ml and 474 µg•hr/ml for 50 mg Enbrel once weekly (N = 154) and 25 mg 
twice weekly (N = 148), respectively. 
Distribution 
A biexponential curve is required to describe the concentration time curve of etanercept. The central 
volume of distribution of etanercept is 7.6 l, while the volume of distribution at steady-state is 10.4 l. 
Elimination 
Etanercept is cleared slowly from the body. The half-life is long, approximately 70 hours. Clearance is 
approximately 0.066 l/hr in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, somewhat lower than the value of 
0.11 l/hr observed in healthy volunteers. Additionally, the pharmacokinetics of Enbrel in rheumatoid 
arthritis patients, ankylosing spondylitis and plaque psoriasis patients are similar. 
There is no apparent pharmacokinetic difference between males and females. 
Linearity 
Dose proportionality has not been formally evaluated, but there is no apparent saturation of clearance 
across the dosing range. 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Although there is elimination of radioactivity in urine after administration of radiolabelled etanercept 
to patients and volunteers, increased etanercept concentrations were not observed in patients with 
acute renal failure. The presence of renal impairment should not require a change in dosage. 
Hepatic impairment 
Increased etanercept concentrations were not observed in patients with acute hepatic failure. The 
presence of hepatic impairment should not require a change in dosage. 
Elderly 
The impact of advanced age was studied in the population pharmacokinetic analysis of etanercept 
serum concentrations. Clearance and volume estimates in patients aged 65 to 87 years were similar to 
estimates in patients less than 65 years of age. 
Paediatric population 
Paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
In a polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis trial with Enbrel, 69 patients (aged 4 to 17 years) 
were administered 0.4 mg Enbrel/kg twice weekly for three months. Serum concentration profiles 
were similar to those seen in adult rheumatoid arthritis patients. The youngest children (4 years of age) 
had reduced clearance (increased clearance when normalised by weight) compared with older children 
(12 years of age) and adults. Simulation of dosing suggests that while older children (10-17 years of 
age) will have serum levels close to those seen in adults, younger children will have appreciably lower 
levels. 
Paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
Patients with paediatric plaque psoriasis (aged 4 to 17 years) were administered 0.8 mg/kg (up to a 
maximum dose of 50 mg per week) of etanercept once weekly for up to 48 weeks. The mean serum 
steady-state trough concentrations ranged from 1.6 to 2.1 mcg/ml at weeks 12, 24, and 48. These mean 
concentrations in patients with paediatric plaque psoriasis were similar to the concentrations observed 
in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (treated with 0.4 mg/kg etanercept twice weekly, up to 
maximum dose of 50 mg per week). These mean concentrations were similar to those seen in adult 
patients with plaque psoriasis treated with 25 mg etanercept twice-weekly. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In the toxicological studies with Enbrel, no dose-limiting or target organ toxicity was evident. Enbrel 
was considered to be non-genotoxic from a battery of in vitro and in vivo studies. Carcinogenicity 
studies, and standard assessments of fertility and postnatal toxicity, were not performed with Enbrel 
due to the development of neutralising antibodies in rodents. 
Enbrel did not induce lethality or notable signs of toxicity in mice or rats following a single 
subcutaneous dose of 2000 mg/kg or a single intravenous dose of 1000 mg/kg. Enbrel did not elicit 
dose-limiting or target organ toxicity in cynomolgus monkeys following twice weekly subcutaneous 
administration for 4 or 26 consecutive weeks at a dose (15 mg/kg) that resulted in AUC-based serum 
drug concentrations that were over 27-fold higher than that obtained in humans at the recommended 
dose of 25 mg. 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sucrose 
Sodium chloride 
L-Arginine hydrochloride 
Sodium phosphate monobasic dihydrate 
Sodium phosphate dibasic dihydrate 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
30 months. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C).  
Do not freeze. 
Enbrel may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 25°C for a single period of up to four 
weeks; after which, it should not be refrigerated again. Enbrel should be discarded if not used within 
four weeks of removal from refrigeration. 
Keep the pre-filled syringes in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Clear glass syringe (type I glass) with stainless steel needle, rubber needle cover and plastic plunger. 
Cartons contain 4, 8, 12 or 24 pre-filled syringes of Enbrel and 4, 8, 12 or 24 alcohol swabs. The 
needle cover contains dry natural rubber (latex) (see section 4.4). Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Clear glass syringe (type I glass) with stainless steel needle, rubber needle cover and plastic plunger.  
Cartons contain 2, 4 or 12 pre-filled syringes of Enbrel with 2, 4 or 12 alcohol swabs. The needle 
cover contains dry natural rubber (latex) (see section 4.4). Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Before injection, Enbrel single-use pre-filled syringe should be allowed to reach room temperature 
(approximately 15 to 30 minutes). The needle cover should not be removed while allowing the pre-
filled syringe to reach room temperature. The solution should be clear to slightly opalescent, 
colourless to pale yellow or pale brown and may contain small translucent or white particles of 
protein.  
Comprehensive instructions for administration are given in the package leaflet, section 7, "Instructions 
for use." 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/99/126/013 
EU/1/99/126/014 
EU/1/99/126/015 
EU/1/99/126/026 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/99/126/016 
EU/1/99/126/017 
EU/1/99/126/018 
9.  DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 03 February 2000 
Date of last renewal: 26 November 2009 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Each pre-filled pen contains 25 mg of etanercept. 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
Each pre-filled pen contains 50 mg of etanercept. 
Etanercept is a human tumour necrosis factor receptor p75 Fc fusion protein produced by recombinant 
DNA technology in a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) mammalian expression system.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection. 
The solution is clear, and colourless to pale yellow or pale brown. 
4.  CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Enbrel in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe active 
rheumatoid arthritis in adults when the response to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, including 
methotrexate (unless contraindicated), has been inadequate. 
Enbrel can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued 
treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate. 
Enbrel is also indicated in the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults 
not previously treated with methotrexate. 
Enbrel, alone or in combination with methotrexate, has been shown to reduce the rate of progression 
of joint damage as measured by X-ray and to improve physical function. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Treatment of polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative) and extended oligoarthritis in 
children and adolescents from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to, or who have 
proved intolerant of, methotrexate.  
Treatment of psoriatic arthritis in adolescents from the age of 12 years who have had an inadequate 
response to, or who have proved intolerant of, methotrexate. 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment of enthesitis-related arthritis in adolescents from the age of 12 years who have had an 
inadequate response to, or who have proved intolerant of, conventional therapy. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when the response to previous 
disease-modifying antirheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. Enbrel has been shown to improve 
physical function in patients with psoriatic arthritis, and to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral 
joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease. 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have had an inadequate response to 
conventional therapy. 
Non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
Treatment of adults with severe non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis with objective signs of 
inflammation as indicated by elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) and/or magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) evidence, who have had an inadequate response to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
(NSAIDs). 
Plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who failed to respond to, or who have a 
contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy including ciclosporin, methotrexate or 
psoralen and ultraviolet-A light (PUVA) (see section 5.1). 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of chronic severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents from the age of 6 years who 
are inadequately controlled by, or are intolerant to, other systemic therapies or phototherapies. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Enbrel treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, 
ankylosing spondylitis, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis, plaque psoriasis or paediatric plaque 
psoriasis. Patients treated with Enbrel should be given the Patient Card. 
The Enbrel pre-filled pen is available in 25 mg and 50 mg strengths. Other presentations of Enbrel are 
available in strengths of 10 mg, 25 mg, and 50 mg. 
Posology 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
25 mg Enbrel administered twice weekly is the recommended dose. Alternatively, 50 mg administered 
once weekly has been shown to be safe and effective (see section 5.1). 
Psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis and non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
The recommended dose is 25 mg Enbrel administered twice weekly, or 50 mg administered once 
weekly.  
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For all of the above indications, available data suggest that a clinical response is usually achieved 
within 12 weeks of treatment. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not 
responding within this time period. 
Plaque psoriasis 
The recommended dose of Enbrel is 25 mg administered twice weekly or 50 mg administered once 
weekly. Alternatively, 50 mg given twice weekly may be used for up to 12 weeks followed, if 
necessary, by a dose of 25 mg twice weekly or 50 mg once weekly. Treatment with Enbrel should 
continue until remission is achieved, for up to 24 weeks. Continuous therapy beyond 24 weeks may be 
appropriate for some adult patients (see section 5.1). Treatment should be discontinued in patients who 
show no response after 12 weeks. If re-treatment with Enbrel is indicated, the same guidance on 
treatment duration should be followed. The dose should be 25 mg twice weekly or 50 mg once 
weekly.  
Special populations 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required. 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required. Posology and administration are the same as for adults 18-64 years of 
age. 
Paediatric population 
The dosage of Enbrel is based on body weight for paediatric patients. Patients weighing less than 
62.5 kg should be accurately dosed on a mg/kg basis using the powder and solvent for solution for 
injection presentations or the powder for solution for injection presentations (see below for dosing for 
specific indication). Patients weighing 62.5 kg or more, may be dosed using a fixed-dose pre-filled 
syringe or pre-filled pen.  
The safety and efficacy of Enbrel in children aged less than 2 years has not been established. 
No data are available. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis  
The recommended dose is 0.4 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 25 mg per dose), given twice weekly as a 
subcutaneous injection with an interval of 3-4 days between doses or 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 
50 mg per dose) given once weekly. Discontinuation of treatment should be considered in patients 
who show no response after 4 months. 
The 10 mg vial strength may be more appropriate for administration to children with JIA below the 
weight of 25 kg. 
No formal clinical trials have been conducted in children aged 2 to 3 years. However, limited safety 
data from a patient registry suggest that the safety profile in children from 2 to 3 years of age is similar 
to that seen in adults and children aged 4 years and older, when dosed every week with 0.8 mg/kg 
subcutaneously (see section 5.1). 
There is generally no applicable use of Enbrel in children aged below 2 years in the indication juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis (age 6 years and above) 
The recommended dose is 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 50 mg per dose) once weekly for up to 
24 weeks. Treatment should be discontinued in patients who show no response after 12 weeks. 
If re-treatment with Enbrel is indicated, the above guidance on treatment duration should be followed. 
The dose should be 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 50 mg per dose) once weekly. 
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There is generally no applicable use of Enbrel in children aged below 6 years in the indication plaque 
psoriasis. 
Method of administration 
Enbrel is administered by subcutaneous injection (see section 6.6).  
Comprehensive instructions for administration are given in the package leaflet, section 7, “Instructions 
for use.” Detailed instructions on unintentional dosing or scheduling variations, including missed 
doses, are provided in section 3 of the package leaflet. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Sepsis or risk of sepsis. 
Treatment with Enbrel should not be initiated in patients with active infections including chronic or 
localised infections. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the brand name and batch 
number of the administered product should be clearly recorded (or stated) in the patient file. 
Infections 
Patients should be evaluated for infections before, during, and after treatment with Enbrel, taking into 
consideration that the mean elimination half-life of etanercept is approximately 70 hours (range 7 to 
300 hours). 
Serious infections, sepsis, tuberculosis, and opportunistic infections, including invasive fungal 
infections, listeriosis and legionellosis, have been reported with the use of Enbrel (see section 4.8). 
These infections were due to bacteria, mycobacteria, fungi, viruses and parasites (including protozoa). 
In some cases, particular fungal and other opportunistic infections have not been recognised, resulting 
in delay of appropriate treatment and sometimes death. In evaluating patients for infections, the 
patient’s risk for relevant opportunistic infections (e.g., exposure to endemic mycoses) should be 
considered.  
Patients who develop a new infection while undergoing treatment with Enbrel should be monitored 
closely. Administration of Enbrel should be discontinued if a patient develops a serious infection. The 
safety and efficacy of Enbrel in patients with chronic infections have not been evaluated. Physicians 
should exercise caution when considering the use of Enbrel in patients with a history of recurring or 
chronic infections or with underlying conditions that may predispose patients to infections such as 
advanced or poorly controlled diabetes. 
Tuberculosis 
Cases of active tuberculosis including miliary tuberculosis and tuberculosis with extra-pulmonary 
location have been reported in patients treated with Enbrel. 
Before starting treatment with Enbrel, all patients must be evaluated for both active and inactive 
(‘latent’) tuberculosis. This evaluation should include a detailed medical history with personal history 
of tuberculosis or possible previous contact with tuberculosis and previous and/or current 
immunosuppressive therapy. Appropriate screening tests, i.e., tuberculin skin test and chest X-ray, 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
should be performed in all patients (local recommendations may apply). It is recommended that the 
conduct of these tests should be recorded in the Patient Card. Prescribers are reminded of the risk of 
false negative tuberculin skin test results, especially in patients who are severely ill or 
immunocompromised. 
If active tuberculosis is diagnosed, Enbrel therapy must not be initiated. If inactive (‘latent’) 
tuberculosis is diagnosed, treatment for latent tuberculosis must be started with anti-tuberculosis 
therapy before the initiation of Enbrel, and in accordance with local recommendations. In this 
situation, the benefit/risk balance of Enbrel therapy should be very carefully considered. 
All patients should be informed to seek medical advice if signs/symptoms suggestive of tuberculosis 
(e.g., persistent cough, wasting/weight loss, low-grade fever) appear during or after Enbrel treatment. 
Hepatitis B reactivation 
Reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who were previously infected with the hepatitis B virus (HBV) 
and had received concomitant TNF-antagonists, including Enbrel, has been reported. This includes 
reports of reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who were anti-HBc positive but HBsAg negative. 
Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with Enbrel. For patients who 
test positive for HBV infection, consultation with a physician with expertise in the treatment of 
hepatitis B is recommended. Caution should be exercised when administering Enbrel in patients 
previously infected with HBV. These patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of active 
HBV infection throughout therapy and for several weeks following termination of therapy. Adequate 
data from treating patients infected with HBV with anti-viral therapy in conjunction with 
TNF-antagonist therapy are not available. In patients who develop HBV infection, Enbrel should be 
stopped and effective anti-viral therapy with appropriate supportive treatment should be initiated. 
Worsening of hepatitis C 
There have been reports of worsening of hepatitis C in patients receiving Enbrel. Enbrel should be 
used with caution in patients with a history of hepatitis C. 
Concurrent treatment with anakinra  
Concurrent administration of Enbrel and anakinra has been associated with an increased risk of serious 
infections and neutropenia compared to Enbrel alone. This combination has not demonstrated 
increased clinical benefit. Thus the combined use of Enbrel and anakinra is not recommended (see 
sections 4.5 and 4.8). 
Concurrent treatment with abatacept  
In clinical studies, concurrent administration of abatacept and Enbrel resulted in increased incidences 
of serious adverse events. This combination has not demonstrated increased clinical benefit; such use 
is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Allergic reactions 
Allergic reactions associated with Enbrel administration have been reported commonly. Allergic 
reactions have included angioedema and urticaria; serious reactions have occurred. If any serious 
allergic or anaphylactic reaction occurs, Enbrel therapy should be discontinued immediately and 
appropriate therapy initiated. 
The needle cap of the pre-filled pen contains latex (dry natural rubber) that may cause hypersensitivity 
reactions when handled by or when Enbrel is administered to persons with known or possible latex 
sensitivity.  
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunosuppression 
The possibility exists for TNF-antagonists, including Enbrel, to affect host defences against infections 
and malignancies since TNF mediates inflammation and modulates cellular immune responses. In a 
study of 49 adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with Enbrel, there was no evidence of 
depression of delayed-type hypersensitivity, depression of immunoglobulin levels, or change in 
enumeration of effector cell populations. 
Two juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients developed varicella infection and signs and symptoms of 
aseptic meningitis, which resolved without sequelae. Patients with a significant exposure to varicella 
virus should temporarily discontinue Enbrel therapy and be considered for prophylactic treatment with 
Varicella Zoster Immune Globulin. 
The safety and efficacy of Enbrel in patients with immunosuppression have not been evaluated. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
Solid and haematopoietic malignancies (excluding skin cancers) 
Reports of various malignancies (including breast and lung carcinoma and lymphoma) have been 
received in the postmarketing period (see section 4.8).  
In the controlled portions of clinical trials of TNF-antagonists, more cases of lymphoma have been 
observed among patients receiving a TNF-antagonist compared with control patients. However, the 
occurrence was rare, and the follow-up period of placebo patients was shorter than for patients 
receiving TNF-antagonist therapy. In the postmarketing setting, cases of leukaemia have been reported 
in patients treated with TNF-antagonists. There is an increased background risk for lymphoma and 
leukaemia in rheumatoid arthritis patients with long-standing, highly active, inflammatory disease, 
which complicates risk estimation. 
Based on current knowledge, a possible risk for the development of lymphomas, leukaemia or other 
haematopoietic or solid malignancies in patients treated with a TNF-antagonist cannot be excluded. 
Caution should be exercised when considering TNF-antagonist therapy for patients with a history of 
malignancy or when considering continuing treatment in patients who develop a malignancy. 
Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults (up to 
22 years of age) treated with TNF-antagonists (initiation of therapy ≤ 18 years of age), including 
Enbrel, in the postmarketing setting. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas. The other cases 
represented a variety of different malignancies and included rare malignancies typically associated 
with immunosuppression. A risk for the development of malignancies in children and adolescents 
treated with TNF-antagonists cannot be excluded. 
Skin cancers 
Melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) have been reported in patients treated with 
TNF-antagonists, including Enbrel. Postmarketing cases of Merkel cell carcinoma have been reported 
very infrequently in patients treated with Enbrel. Periodic skin examination is recommended for all 
patients, particularly those with risk factors for skin cancer. 
Combining the results of controlled clinical trials, more cases of NMSC were observed in patients 
receiving Enbrel compared with control patients, particularly in patients with psoriasis.  
Vaccinations 
Live vaccines should not be given concurrently with Enbrel. No data are available on the secondary 
transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving Enbrel. In a double blind, placebo 
controlled, randomised clinical study in adult patients with psoriatic arthritis 184 patients also received 
a multivalent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine at week 4. In this study most psoriatic arthritis 
97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients receiving Enbrel were able to mount effective B-cell immune response to pneumococcal 
polysaccharide vaccine, but titres in aggregate were moderately lower and few patients had two-fold 
rises in titres compared to patients not receiving Enbrel. The clinical significance of this is unknown. 
Autoantibody formation 
Treatment with Enbrel may result in the formation of autoimmune antibodies (see section 4.8). 
Haematologic reactions 
Rare cases of pancytopenia and very rare cases of aplastic anaemia, some with fatal outcome, have 
been reported in patients treated with Enbrel. Caution should be exercised in patients being treated 
with Enbrel who have a previous history of blood dyscrasias. All patients and parents/caregivers 
should be advised that if the patient develops signs and symptoms suggestive of blood dyscrasias or 
infections (e.g., persistent fever, sore throat, bruising, bleeding, paleness) whilst on Enbrel, they 
should seek immediate medical advice. Such patients should be investigated urgently, including full 
blood count; if blood dyscrasias are confirmed, Enbrel should be discontinued. 
Neurological disorders 
There have been rare reports of CNS demyelinating disorders in patients treated with Enbrel (see 
section 4.8). Additionally, there have been rare reports of peripheral demyelinating polyneuropathies 
(including Guillain-Barré syndrome, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, 
demyelinating polyneuropathy, and multifocal motor neuropathy). Although no clinical trials have 
been performed evaluating Enbrel therapy in patients with multiple sclerosis, clinical trials of other 
TNF antagonists in patients with multiple sclerosis have shown increases in disease activity. A careful 
risk/benefit evaluation, including a neurologic assessment, is recommended when prescribing Enbrel 
to patients with pre-existing or recent onset of demyelinating disease, or to those who are considered 
to have an increased risk of developing demyelinating disease. 
Combination therapy 
In a controlled clinical trial of two years duration in rheumatoid arthritis patients, the combination of 
Enbrel and methotrexate did not result in unexpected safety findings, and the safety profile of Enbrel 
when given in combination with methotrexate was similar to the profiles reported in studies of Enbrel 
and methotrexate alone. Long-term studies to assess the safety of the combination are ongoing. The 
long-term safety of Enbrel in combination with other disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs 
(DMARD) has not been established. 
The use of Enbrel in combination with other systemic therapies or phototherapy for the treatment of 
psoriasis has not been studied. 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
Based on pharmacokinetic data (see section 5.2), no dose adjustment is needed in patients with renal 
or hepatic impairment; clinical experience in such patients is limited. 
Congestive heart failure (Cardiac failure congestive) 
Physicians should use caution when using Enbrel in patients who have congestive heart failure (CHF). 
There have been postmarketing reports of worsening of CHF, with and without identifiable 
precipitating factors, in patients taking Enbrel. There have also been rare (< 0.1%) reports of new 
onset CHF, including CHF in patients without known pre-existing cardiovascular disease. Some of 
these patients have been under 50 years of age. Two large clinical trials evaluating the use of Enbrel in 
the treatment of CHF were terminated early due to lack of efficacy. Although not conclusive, data 
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
from one of these trials suggest a possible tendency toward worsening CHF in those patients assigned 
to Enbrel treatment.  
Alcoholic hepatitis 
In a phase II randomised placebo-controlled study of 48 hospitalised patients treated with Enbrel or 
placebo for moderate to severe alcoholic hepatitis, Enbrel was not efficacious, and the mortality rate in 
patients treated with Enbrel was significantly higher after 6 months. Consequently, Enbrel should not 
be used in patients for the treatment of alcoholic hepatitis. Physicians should use caution when using 
Enbrel in patients who also have moderate to severe alcoholic hepatitis. 
Wegener's granulomatosis 
A placebo-controlled trial, in which 89 adult patients were treated with Enbrel in addition to standard 
therapy (including cyclophosphamide or methotrexate, and glucocorticoids) for a median duration of 
25 months, has not shown Enbrel to be an effective treatment for Wegener’s granulomatosis. The 
incidence of non-cutaneous malignancies of various types was significantly higher in patients treated 
with Enbrel than in the control group. Enbrel is not recommended for the treatment of Wegener’s 
granulomatosis. 
Hypoglycaemia in patients treated for diabetes 
There have been reports of hypoglycaemia following initiation of Enbrel in patients receiving 
medication for diabetes, necessitating a reduction in anti-diabetic medication in some of these patients. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
In the Phase 3 studies in rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis, no overall 
differences in adverse events, serious adverse events, and serious infections in patients age 65 or older 
who received Enbrel were observed compared with younger patients. However, caution should be 
exercised when treating the elderly and particular attention paid with respect to occurrence of 
infections. 
Paediatric population 
Vaccinations 
It is recommended that paediatric patients, if possible, be brought up to date with all immunisations in 
agreement with current immunisation guidelines prior to initiating Enbrel therapy (see Vaccinations, 
above). 
Sodium content 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dosage unit. Patients on low 
sodium diets can be informed that this medicinal product is essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Concurrent treatment with anakinra  
Adult patients treated with Enbrel and anakinra were observed to have a higher rate of serious 
infection when compared with patients treated with either Enbrel or anakinra alone (historical data). 
In addition, in a double-blind placebo-controlled trial in adult patients receiving background 
methotrexate, patients treated with Enbrel and anakinra were observed to have a higher rate of serious 
infections (7%) and neutropenia than patients treated with Enbrel (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). The 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
combination Enbrel and anakinra has not demonstrated increased clinical benefit and is therefore not 
recommended. 
Concurrent treatment with abatacept  
In clinical studies, concurrent administration of abatacept and Enbrel resulted in increased incidences 
of serious adverse events. This combination has not demonstrated increased clinical benefit; such use 
is not recommended (see section 4.4).  
Concurrent treatment with sulfasalazine  
In a clinical study of adult patients who were receiving established doses of sulfasalazine, to which 
Enbrel was added, patients in the combination group experienced a statistically significant decrease in 
mean white blood cell counts in comparison to groups treated with Enbrel or sulfasalazine alone. The 
clinical significance of this interaction is unknown. Physicians should use caution when considering 
combination therapy with sulfasalazine. 
Non-interactions 
In clinical trials, no interactions have been observed when Enbrel was administered with 
glucocorticoids, salicylates (except sulfasalazine), nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), 
analgesics, or methotrexate. See section 4.4 for vaccination advice. 
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions were observed in studies with 
methotrexate, digoxin or warfarin. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should consider the use of appropriate contraception to avoid 
becoming pregnant during Enbrel therapy and for three weeks after discontinuation of therapy. 
Pregnancy  
Developmental toxicity studies performed in rats and rabbits have revealed no evidence of harm to the 
foetus or neonatal rat due to etanercept. The effects of etanercept on pregnancy outcomes have been 
investigated in two observational cohort studies. A higher rate of major birth defects was observed in 
one observational study comparing pregnancies exposed to etanercept (n=370) during the first 
trimester with pregnancies not exposed to etanercept or other TNF-antagonists (n=164) (adjusted odds 
ratio 2.4, 95% CI: 1.0-5.5). The types of major birth defects were consistent with those most 
commonly reported in the general population and no particular pattern of abnormalities was identified. 
No change in the rate of spontaneous abortion, stillbirth, or minor malformations was observed. In 
another observational multi-country registry study comparing the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes 
in women exposed to etanercept during the first 90 days of pregnancy (n=425) to those exposed to 
non-biologic drugs (n=3497), there was no observed increased risk of major birth defects (crude odds 
ratio [OR]= 1.22, 95% CI: 0.79-1.90; adjusted OR = 0.96, 95% CI: 0.58-1.60 after adjusting for 
country, maternal disease, parity, maternal age and smoking in early pregnancy). This study also 
showed no increased risks of minor birth defects, preterm birth, stillbirth, or infections in the first year 
of life for infants born to women exposed to etanercept during pregnancy. Enbrel should only be used 
during pregnancy if clearly needed. 
Etanercept crosses the placenta and has been detected in the serum of infants born to female patients 
treated with Enbrel during pregnancy. The clinical impact of this is unknown, however, infants may be 
at increased risk of infection. Administration of live vaccines to infants for 16 weeks after the 
mother’s last dose of Enbrel is generally not recommended. 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Breast-feeding 
In lactating rats following subcutaneous administration, etanercept was excreted in the milk and 
detected in the serum of pups. Limited information from the published literature indicates etanercept 
has been detected at low levels in human milk. Etanercept could be considered for use during 
breast-feeding taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy 
for the woman. 
While systemic exposure in a breastfed infant is expected to be low because etanercept is largely 
degraded in the gastrointestinal tract, limited data regarding systemic exposure in the breastfed infant 
are available. Therefore, the administration of live vaccines (e.g., BCG) to a breastfed infant when the 
mother is receiving etanercept could be considered 16 weeks after stopping breast-feeding (or at an 
earlier timepoint if the infant etanercept serum levels are undetectable).  
Fertility 
Preclinical data about peri- and postnatal toxicity of etanercept and of effects of etanercept on fertility 
and general reproductive performance are not available. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Enbrel has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are injection site reactions (such as pain, swelling, 
itching, reddening and bleeding at the puncture site), infections (such as upper respiratory infections, 
bronchitis, bladder infections and skin infections), headache, allergic reactions, development of 
autoantibodies, itching, and fever. 
Serious adverse reactions have also been reported for Enbrel. TNF-antagonists, such as Enbrel, affect 
the immune system and their use may affect the body’s defenses against infection and cancer. Serious 
infections affect fewer than 1 in 100 patients treated with Enbrel. Reports have included fatal and 
life-threatening infections and sepsis. Various malignancies have also been reported with use of 
Enbrel, including cancers of the breast, lung, skin and lymph glands (lymphoma).   
Serious haematological, neurological and autoimmune reactions have also been reported. These 
include rare reports of pancytopenia and very rare reports of aplastic anaemia. Central and peripheral 
demyelinating events have been seen rarely and very rarely, respectively, with Enbrel use. There have 
been rare reports of lupus, lupus-related conditions, and vasculitis. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following list of adverse reactions is based on experience from clinical trials and on 
postmarketing experience. 
Within the organ system classes, adverse reactions are listed under headings of frequency (number of 
patients expected to experience the reaction), using the following categories: very common (≥ 1/10); 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very 
rare (< 1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not Known 
(Cannot be 
Estimated from 
Available Data) 
Hepatitis B 
reactivation, listeria 
Merkel cell 
carcinoma (see 
section 4.4), 
Kaposi’s sarcoma 
Histiocytosis 
haematophagic 
(macrophage 
activation 
syndrome)* 
Worsening of 
symptoms of 
dermatomyositis 
System Organ 
Class 
Very 
Common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000 
Very Rare 
< 1/10,000 
Serious infections 
(including 
pneumonia, 
cellulitis, arthritis 
bacterial, sepsis and 
parasitic infection)* 
Non-melanoma skin 
cancers* (see 
section 4.4) 
Thrombocytopenia, 
anaemia, 
leukopenia, 
neutropenia 
Vasculitis 
(including anti-
neutrophilic 
cytoplasmic antibody 
positive vasculitis) 
Infection 
(including 
upper 
respiratory 
tract 
infection, 
bronchitis, 
cystitis, 
skin 
infection)* 
Infections and 
infestations 
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified 
(including 
cysts and 
polyps) 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders 
Immune 
system 
disorders 
Nervous 
system 
disorders  
Headache 
Allergic 
reactions (see 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue 
disorders), 
autoantibody 
formation* 
Eye disorders  
Cardiac 
disorders  
Uveitis, scleritis 
Worsening of 
cardiac failure 
102 
Tuberculosis, 
opportunistic 
infection 
(including 
invasive fungal, 
protozoal, 
bacterial, 
atypical 
mycobacterial, 
viral infections, 
and Legionella)* 
Malignant 
melanoma (see 
section 4.4), 
lymphoma, 
leukaemia  
Pancytopenia* 
Aplastic 
anaemia* 
Serious 
allergic/anaphyla
ctic reactions 
(including 
angioedema, 
bronchospasm), 
sarcoidosis 
CNS 
demyelinating 
events 
suggestive of 
multiple 
sclerosis or 
localised 
demyelinating 
conditions, such 
as optic neuritis 
and transverse 
myelitis (see 
section 4.4), 
peripheral 
demyelinating 
events, including 
Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, 
chronic 
inflammatory 
demyelinating 
polyneuropathy, 
demyelinating 
polyneuropathy, 
and multifocal 
motor 
neuropathy (see 
section 4.4), 
seizure 
New onset 
cardiac failure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ 
Class 
Very 
Common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000 
Very Rare 
< 1/10,000 
Not Known 
(Cannot be 
Estimated from 
Available Data) 
Respiratory, 
thoracic, and 
mediastinal 
disorders  
Gastrointestina
l disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders  
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders  
Musculoskeleta
l and 
connective 
tissue disorders  
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions  
congestive (see 
section 4.4) 
Inflammatory bowel 
disease 
Elevated liver 
enzymes* 
Pruritus, rash  Angioedema, 
psoriasis (including 
new onset or 
worsening and 
pustular, primarily 
palms and soles), 
urticaria, 
psoriasiform rash 
Toxic 
epidermal 
necrolysis 
congestive (see 
section 4.4) 
Interstitial lung 
disease 
(including 
pneumonitis and 
pulmonary 
fibrosis)* 
Autoimmune 
hepatitis* 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, 
cutaneous 
vasculitis 
(including 
hypersensitivity 
vasculitis), 
erythema 
multiforme, 
lichenoid 
reactions  
Cutaneous lupus 
erythematosus, 
subacute 
cutaneous lupus 
erythematosus, 
lupus-like 
syndrome 
Glomerulonephritis 
Pyrexia 
Injection 
site 
reactions 
(including 
bleeding, 
bruising, 
erythema, 
itching, 
pain, 
swelling)* 
*see Description of selected adverse reactions, below. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
One hundred and twenty-nine new malignancies of various types were observed in 4,114 rheumatoid 
arthritis patients treated in clinical trials with Enbrel for up to approximately 6 years, including 
231 patients treated with Enbrel in combination with methotrexate in the 2-year active-controlled 
study. The observed rates and incidences in these clinical trials were similar to those expected for the 
population studied. A total of 2 malignancies were reported in clinical studies of approximately 2 
years duration involving 240 Enbrel-treated psoriatic arthritis patients. In clinical studies conducted 
for more than 2 years with 351 ankylosing spondylitis patients, 6 malignancies were reported in 
Enbrel-treated patients. In a group of 2,711 plaque psoriasis patients treated with Enbrel in 
double-blind and open-label studies of up to 2.5 years, 30 malignancies and 43 nonmelanoma skin 
cancers were reported. 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In a group of 7,416 patients treated with Enbrel in rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing 
spondylitis and psoriasis clinical trials, 18 lymphomas were reported. 
Reports of various malignancies (including breast and lung carcinoma and lymphoma) have also been 
received in the postmarketing period (see section 4.4). 
Injection site reactions 
Compared to placebo, patients with rheumatic diseases treated with Enbrel had a significantly higher 
incidence of injection site reactions (36% vs. 9%). Injection site reactions usually occurred in the first 
month. Mean duration was approximately 3 to 5 days. No treatment was given for the majority of 
injection site reactions in the Enbrel treatment groups, and the majority of patients who were given 
treatment received topical preparations such as corticosteroids, or oral antihistamines. Additionally, 
some patients developed recall injection site reactions characterised by a skin reaction at the most 
recent site of injection along with the simultaneous appearance of injection site reactions at previous 
injection sites. These reactions were generally transient and did not recur with treatment. 
In controlled trials in patients with plaque psoriasis, approximately 13.6% of patients treated with 
Enbrel developed injection site reactions compared with 3.4% of placebo-treated patients during the 
first 12 weeks of treatment. 
Serious infections 
In placebo-controlled trials, no increase in the incidence of serious infections (fatal, life threatening, or 
requiring hospitalisation or intravenous antibiotics) was observed. Serious infections occurred in 6.3% 
of rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with Enbrel for up to 48 months. These included abscess (at 
various sites), bacteraemia, bronchitis, bursitis, cellulitis, cholecystitis, diarrhoea, diverticulitis, 
endocarditis (suspected), gastroenteritis, hepatitis B, herpes zoster, leg ulcer, mouth infection, 
osteomyelitis, otitis, peritonitis, pneumonia, pyelonephritis, sepsis, septic arthritis, sinusitis, skin 
infection, skin ulcer, urinary tract infection, vasculitis, and wound infection. In the 2-year 
active-controlled study where patients were treated with either Enbrel alone, methotrexate alone or 
Enbrel in combination with methotrexate, the rates of serious infections were similar among the 
treatment groups. However, it cannot be excluded that the combination of Enbrel with methotrexate 
could be associated with an increase in the rate of infections. 
There were no differences in rates of infection among patients treated with Enbrel and those treated 
with placebo for plaque psoriasis in placebo-controlled trials of up to 24 weeks duration. Serious 
infections experienced by Enbrel-treated patients included cellulitis, gastroenteritis, pneumonia, 
cholecystitis, osteomyelitis, gastritis, appendicitis, Streptococcal fasciitis, myositis, septic shock, 
diverticulitis and abscess. In the double-blind and open-label psoriatic arthritis trials, 1 patient reported 
a serious infection (pneumonia). 
Serious and fatal infections have been reported during use of Enbrel; reported pathogens include 
bacteria, mycobacteria (including tuberculosis), viruses and fungi. Some have occurred within a few 
weeks after initiating treatment with Enbrel in patients who have underlying conditions (e.g., diabetes, 
congestive heart failure, history of active or chronic infections) in addition to their rheumatoid arthritis 
(see section 4.4). Enbrel treatment may increase mortality in patients with established sepsis. 
Opportunistic infections have been reported in association with Enbrel, including invasive fungal, 
parasitic (including protozoal), viral (including herpes zoster), bacterial (including Listeria and 
Legionella), and atypical mycobacterial infections. In a pooled data set of clinical trials, the overall 
incidence of opportunistic infections was 0.09% for the 15,402 subjects who received Enbrel. The 
exposure-adjusted rate was 0.06 events per 100 patient-years. In postmarketing experience, 
approximately half of all of the case reports of opportunistic infections worldwide were invasive 
fungal infections. The most commonly reported invasive fungal infections included Candida, 
Pneumocystis, Aspergillus, and Histoplasma. Invasive fungal infections accounted for more than half 
of the fatalities amongst patients who developed opportunistic infections. The majority of the reports 
104 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with a fatal outcome were in patients with Pneumocystis pneumonia, unspecified systemic fungal 
infections, and aspergillosis (see section 4.4). 
Autoantibodies 
Adult patients had serum samples tested for autoantibodies at multiple timepoints. Of the rheumatoid 
arthritis patients evaluated for antinuclear antibodies (ANA), the percentage of patients who developed 
new positive ANA (≥ 1:40) was higher in patients treated with Enbrel (11%) than in placebo-treated 
patients (5%). The percentage of patients who developed new positive anti-double-stranded DNA 
antibodies was also higher by radioimmunoassay (15% of patients treated with Enbrel compared to 4% 
of placebo-treated patients) and by Crithidia luciliae assay (3% of patients treated with Enbrel 
compared to none of placebo-treated patients). The proportion of patients treated with Enbrel who 
developed anticardiolipin antibodies was similarly increased compared to placebo-treated patients. 
The impact of long-term treatment with Enbrel on the development of autoimmune diseases is 
unknown. 
There have been rare reports of patients, including rheumatoid factor positive patients, who have 
developed other autoantibodies in conjunction with a lupus-like syndrome or rashes that are 
compatible with subacute cutaneous lupus or discoid lupus by clinical presentation and biopsy. 
Pancytopenia and aplastic anaemia 
There have been postmarketing reports of pancytopenia and aplastic anaemia, some of which had fatal 
outcomes (see section 4.4). 
Interstitial lung disease 
In controlled clinical trials of etanercept across all indications, the frequency (incidence proportion) of 
interstitial lung disease in patients receiving etanercept without concomitant methotrexate was 0.06% 
(frequency rare). In the controlled clinical trials that allowed concomitant treatment with etanercept 
and methotrexate, the frequency (incidence proportion) of interstitial lung disease was 0.47% 
(frequency uncommon). There have been postmarketing reports of interstitial lung disease (including 
pneumonitis and pulmonary fibrosis), some of which had fatal outcomes. 
Concurrent treatment with anakinra  
In studies when adult patients received concurrent treatment with Enbrel plus anakinra, a higher rate of 
serious infections compared to Enbrel alone was observed and 2% of patients (3/139) developed 
neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count < 1000/mm3). While neutropenic, one patient developed 
cellulitis that resolved after hospitalisation (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Elevated liver enzymes 
In the double-blind periods of controlled clinical trials of etanercept across all indications, the 
frequency (incidence proportion) of adverse events of elevated liver enzymes in patients receiving 
etanercept without concomitant methotrexate was 0.54% (frequency uncommon). In the double-blind 
periods of controlled clinical trials that allowed concomitant treatment with etanercept and 
methotrexate, the frequency (incidence proportion) of adverse events of elevated liver enzymes was 
4.18% (frequency common). 
Autoimmune hepatitis 
In controlled clinical trials of etanercept across all indications, the frequency (incidence proportion) of 
autoimmune hepatitis in patients receiving etanercept without concomitant methotrexate was 0.02% 
(frequency rare). In the controlled clinical trials that allowed concomitant treatment with etanercept 
and methotrexate, the frequency (incidence proportion) of autoimmune hepatitis was 0.24% 
(frequency uncommon).  
Paediatric population 
Undesirable effects in paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In general, the adverse events in paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis were similar in 
frequency and type to those seen in adult patients. Differences from adults and other special 
considerations are discussed in the following paragraphs. 
The types of infections seen in clinical trials in juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients aged 2 to 18 years 
were generally mild to moderate and consistent with those commonly seen in outpatient paediatric 
populations. Severe adverse events reported included varicella with signs and symptoms of aseptic 
meningitis, which resolved without sequelae (see also section 4.4), appendicitis, gastroenteritis, 
depression/personality disorder, cutaneous ulcer, oesophagitis/gastritis, group A streptococcal septic 
shock, type I diabetes mellitus, and soft tissue and post-operative wound infection. 
In one study in children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis aged 4 to 17 years, 43 of 69 (62%) children 
experienced an infection while receiving Enbrel during 3 months of the study (part 1, open-label), and 
the frequency and severity of infections was similar in 58 patients completing 12 months of open-label 
extension therapy. The types and proportion of adverse events in juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients 
were similar to those seen in trials of Enbrel in adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and the 
majority were mild. Several adverse events were reported more commonly in 69 juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis patients receiving 3 months of Enbrel compared to the 349 adult rheumatoid arthritis patients. 
These included headache (19% of patients, 1.7 events per patient year), nausea (9%, 1.0 event per 
patient year), abdominal pain (19%, 0.74 events per patient year), and vomiting (13%, 0.74 events per 
patient year). 
There were 4 reports of macrophage activation syndrome in juvenile idiopathic arthritis clinical trials. 
Undesirable effects in paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
In a 48-week study in 211 children aged 4 to 17 years with paediatric plaque psoriasis, the adverse 
events reported were similar to those seen in previous studies in adults with plaque psoriasis. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No dose-limiting toxicities were observed during clinical trials of rheumatoid arthritis patients. The 
highest dose level evaluated has been an intravenous loading dose of 32 mg/m2 followed by 
subcutaneous doses of 16 mg/m2 administered twice weekly. One rheumatoid arthritis patient 
mistakenly self-administered 62 mg Enbrel subcutaneously twice weekly for 3 weeks without 
experiencing undesirable effects. There is no known antidote to Enbrel. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF-α) inhibitors, 
ATC code: L04AB01 
Tumour necrosis factor (TNF) is a dominant cytokine in the inflammatory process of rheumatoid 
arthritis. Elevated levels of TNF are also found in the synovium and psoriatic plaques of patients with 
psoriatic arthritis and in serum and synovial tissue of patients with ankylosing spondylitis. In plaque 
psoriasis, infiltration by inflammatory cells including T-cells leads to increased TNF levels in psoriatic 
lesions compared with levels in uninvolved skin. Etanercept is a competitive inhibitor of TNF-binding 
106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to its cell surface receptors and thereby inhibits the biological activity of TNF. TNF and lymphotoxin 
are pro-inflammatory cytokines that bind to two distinct cell surface receptors: the 55-kilodalton (p55) 
and 75-kilodalton (p75) tumour necrosis factor receptors (TNFRs). Both TNFRs exist naturally in 
membrane-bound and soluble forms. Soluble TNFRs are thought to regulate TNF biological activity. 
TNF and lymphotoxin exist predominantly as homotrimers, with their biological activity dependent on 
cross-linking of cell surface TNFRs. Dimeric soluble receptors such as etanercept possess a higher 
affinity for TNF than monomeric receptors and are considerably more potent competitive inhibitors of 
TNF binding to its cellular receptors. In addition, use of an immunoglobulin Fc region as a fusion 
element in the construction of a dimeric receptor imparts a longer serum half-life. 
Mechanism of action 
Much of the joint pathology in rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis and skin pathology in 
plaque psoriasis is mediated by pro-inflammatory molecules that are linked in a network controlled by 
TNF. The mechanism of action of etanercept is thought to be its competitive inhibition of TNF 
binding to cell surface TNFR, preventing TNF-mediated cellular responses by rendering TNF 
biologically inactive. Etanercept may also modulate biologic responses controlled by additional 
downstream molecules (e.g., cytokines, adhesion molecules, or proteinases) that are induced or 
regulated by TNF. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
This section presents data from four randomised controlled trials in adults with rheumatoid arthritis, 
one study in adults with psoriatic arthritis, one study in adults with ankylosing spondylitis, two studies 
in adults with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis, four studies in adults with plaque psoriasis, 
three studies in juvenile idiopathic arthritis and one study in paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis. 
Adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis 
The efficacy of Enbrel was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The 
study evaluated 234 adult patients with active rheumatoid arthritis who had failed therapy with at least 
one but no more than four disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Doses of 10 mg or 
25 mg Enbrel or placebo were administered subcutaneously twice a week for 6 consecutive months. 
The results of this controlled trial were expressed in percentage improvement in rheumatoid arthritis 
using American College of Rheumatology (ACR) response criteria.  
ACR 20 and 50 responses were higher in patients treated with Enbrel at 3 and 6 months than in 
patients treated with placebo (ACR 20: Enbrel 62% and 59%, placebo 23% and 11% at 3 and 
6 months respectively: ACR 50: Enbrel 41% and 40%, placebo 8% and 5% at months 3 and 6, 
respectively; p < 0.01 Enbrel vs placebo at all timepoints for both ACR 20 and ACR 50 responses).  
Approximately 15% of subjects who received Enbrel achieved an ACR 70 response at month 3 and 
month 6 compared to fewer than 5% of subjects in the placebo arm. Among patients receiving Enbrel, 
the clinical responses generally appeared within 1 to 2 weeks after initiation of therapy and nearly 
always occurred by 3 months. A dose response was seen; results with 10 mg were intermediate 
between placebo and 25 mg. Enbrel was significantly better than placebo in all components of the 
ACR criteria as well as other measures of rheumatoid arthritis disease activity not included in the ACR 
response criteria, such as morning stiffness. A Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), which 
included disability, vitality, mental health, general health status, and arthritis-associated health status 
subdomains, was administered every 3 months during the trial. All subdomains of the HAQ were 
improved in patients treated with Enbrel compared to controls at 3 and 6 months.  
After discontinuation of Enbrel, symptoms of arthritis generally returned within a month. 
Re-introduction of treatment with Enbrel after discontinuation of up to 24 months resulted in the same 
magnitudes of responses as patients who received Enbrel without interruption of therapy based on 
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
results of open-label studies. Continued durable responses have been seen for up to 10 years in 
open-label extension treatment trials when patients received Enbrel without interruption.  
The efficacy of Enbrel was compared to methotrexate in a randomised, active-controlled study with 
blinded radiographic evaluations as a primary endpoint in 632 adult patients with active rheumatoid 
arthritis (<3 years duration) who had never received treatment with methotrexate. Doses of 10 mg or 
25 mg Enbrel were administered SC twice a week for up to 24 months. Methotrexate doses were 
escalated from 7.5 mg/week to a maximum of 20 mg/week over the first 8 weeks of the trial and 
continued for up to 24 months. Clinical improvement including onset of action within 2 weeks with 
Enbrel 25 mg was similar to that seen in the previous trials, and was maintained for up to 24 months. 
At baseline, patients had a moderate degree of disability, with mean HAQ scores of 1.4 to 1.5. 
Treatment with Enbrel 25 mg resulted in substantial improvement at 12 months, with about 44% of 
patients achieving a normal HAQ score (less than 0.5). This benefit was maintained in Year 2 of this 
study. 
In this study, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in Total 
Sharp Score (TSS) and its components, the erosion score and Joint Space Narrowing (JSN) score. 
Radiographs of hands/wrists and feet were read at baseline and 6, 12, and 24 months. The 10 mg 
Enbrel dose had consistently less effect on structural damage than the 25 mg dose. Enbrel 25 mg was 
significantly superior to methotrexate for erosion scores at both 12 and 24 months. The differences in 
TSS and JSN were not statistically significant between methotrexate and Enbrel 25 mg. The results are 
shown in the figure below. 
Radiographic Progression: Comparison of Enbrel vs Methotrexate in Patients with RA of 
<3 Years Duration 
12 Months
1.3
0.9
0.8
0.4*
0.4 0.4
e
n
i
l
e
s
a
B
m
o
r
f
e
g
n
a
h
C
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
24 Months
2.2
1.3
1.2
0.9
0.6*
0.6
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
TSS Erosions
JSN
TSS
Erosions
JSN
MTX
Enbrel 25 mg
*p < 0.05
In another active-controlled, double-blind, randomised study, clinical efficacy, safety, and 
radiographic progression in RA patients treated with Enbrel alone (25 mg twice weekly), methotrexate 
alone (7.5 to 20 mg weekly, median dose 20 mg), and of the combination of Enbrel and methotrexate 
initiated concurrently were compared in 682 adult patients with active rheumatoid arthritis of 6 months 
to 20 years duration (median 5 years) who had a less than satisfactory response to at least 1 
disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) other than methotrexate. 
Patients in the Enbrel in combination with methotrexate therapy group had significantly higher 
ACR 20, ACR 50, ACR 70 responses and improvement for DAS and HAQ scores at both 24 and 
52 weeks than patients in either of the single therapy groups (results shown in table below). 
Significant advantages for Enbrel in combination with methotrexate compared with Enbrel 
monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy were also observed after 24 months. 
108 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical Efficacy Results at 12 Months: Comparison of Enbrel vs Methotrexate vs Enbrel in 
Combination with Methotrexate in Patients with RA of 6 Months To 20 Years Duration 
Endpoint 
ACR Responsesa  
ACR 20 
ACR 50 
ACR 70 
DAS 
Baseline scoreb 
Week 52 scoreb 
Remissionc 
HAQ 
Baseline 
Week 52 
Methotrexate 
(n = 228) 
Enbrel 
(n = 223) 
Enbrel + 
Methotrexate 
(n = 231) 
58.8% 
36.4% 
16.7% 
5.5 
3.0 
14% 
1.7 
1.1 
65.5% 
43.0% 
22.0% 
5.7 
3.0 
18% 
1.7 
1.0 
74.5% †,φ 
63.2% †,φ 
39.8% †,φ 
5.5 
2.3†,φ 
37%†,φ 
1.8 
0.8†,φ 
a: Patients who did not complete 12 months in the study were considered to be non-responders. 
b: Values for Disease Activity Score (DAS) are means. 
c: Remission is defined as DAS <1.6 
Pairwise comparison p-values: † = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs methotrexate 
and φ = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs Enbrel 
Radiographic progression at 12 months was significantly less in the Enbrel group than in the 
methotrexate group, while the combination was significantly better than either monotherapy at 
slowing radiographic progression (see figure below). 
Radiographic Progression: Comparison of Enbrel vs Methotrexate vs Enbrel in Combination 
with Methotrexate in Patients with RA of 6 Months To 20 Years Duration (12 Month Results) 
e
n
i
l
e
s
a
B
m
o
r
f
e
g
n
a
h
C
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
-0.5
-1.0
2.80
Methotrexate
Enbrel 
Enbrel + Methotrexate
1.68
1.12
0.52*
0.21*
0.32
-0.30†
-0.23†,φ
-0.54†,φ
TSS
Erosions
JSN
Pairwise comparison p-values: * = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel vs 
methotrexate, † = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs 
methotrexate and φ = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs Enbrel 
109 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Significant advantages for Enbrel in combination with methotrexate compared with Enbrel 
monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy were also observed after 24 months. Similarly, the 
significant advantages for Enbrel monotherapy compared with methotrexate monotherapy were also 
observed after 24 months. 
In an analysis in which all patients who dropped out of the study for any reason were considered to 
have progressed, the percentage of patients without progression (TSS change ≤ 0.5) at 24 months was 
higher in the Enbrel in combination with methotrexate group compared with the Enbrel alone and 
methotrexate alone groups (62%, 50%, and 36%, respectively; p< 0.05). The difference between 
Enbrel alone and methotrexate alone was also significant (p< 0.05). Among patients who completed a 
full 24 months of therapy in the study, the non-progression rates were 78%, 70%, and 61%, 
respectively. 
The safety and efficacy of 50 mg Enbrel (two 25 mg SC injections) administered once weekly were 
evaluated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 420 patients with active RA. In this study, 53 
patients received placebo, 214 patients received 50 mg Enbrel once weekly and 153 patients received 
25 mg Enbrel twice weekly. The safety and efficacy profiles of the two Enbrel treatment regimens 
were comparable at week 8 in their effect on signs and symptoms of RA; data at week 16 did not show 
comparability (non-inferiority) between the two regimens. A single 50 mg/ml injection of Enbrel was 
found to be bioequivalent to two simultaneous injections of 25 mg/ml. 
Adult patients with psoriatic arthritis 
The efficacy of Enbrel was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in 205 
patients with psoriatic arthritis. Patients were between 18 and 70 years of age and had active psoriatic 
arthritis (≥ 3 swollen joints and ≥ 3 tender joints) in at least one of the following forms: (1) distal 
interphalangeal (DIP) involvement; (2) polyarticular arthritis (absence of rheumatoid nodules and 
presence of psoriasis); (3) arthritis mutilans; (4) asymmetric psoriatic arthritis; or (5) spondylitis-like 
ankylosis. Patients also had plaque psoriasis with a qualifying target lesion ≥ 2 cm in diameter. 
Patients had previously been treated with NSAIDs (86%), DMARDs (80%), and corticosteroids 
(24%). Patients currently on methotrexate therapy (stable for ≥ 2 months) could continue at a stable 
dose of ≤ 25 mg/week methotrexate. Doses of 25 mg of Enbrel (based on dose-finding studies in 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis) or placebo were administered SC twice a week for 6 months. At the 
end of the double-blind study, patients could enter a long-term open-label extension study for a total 
duration of up to 2 years. 
Clinical responses were expressed as percentages of patients achieving the ACR 20, 50, and 70 
response and percentages with improvement in Psoriatic Arthritis Response Criteria (PsARC). Results 
are summarised in the table below. 
Responses of Patients with Psoriatic Arthritis in a 
Placebo-Controlled Trial 
  Psoriatic Arthritis Response 
Percent of Patients 
Placebo 
n = 104 
Enbrela 
n = 101 
  ACR 20 
     Month 3 
     Month 6 
  ACR 50 
     Month 3 
     Month 6 
  ACR 70 
     Month 3 
15 
13 
4 
4 
0 
110 
59b 
50b 
38b 
37b 
11b 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Responses of Patients with Psoriatic Arthritis in a 
Placebo-Controlled Trial 
Percent of Patients 
  Psoriatic Arthritis Response 
     Month 6 
  PsARC 
     Month 3 
     Month 6 
a: 25 mg Enbrel SC twice weekly 
b: p < 0.001, Enbrel vs. placebo 
c: p < 0.01, Enbrel vs. placebo 
Placebo 
n = 104 
1 
31 
23 
Enbrela 
n = 101 
9c 
72b 
70b 
Among patients with psoriatic arthritis who received Enbrel, the clinical responses were apparent at 
the time of the first visit (4 weeks) and were maintained through 6 months of therapy. Enbrel was 
significantly better than placebo in all measures of disease activity (p < 0.001), and responses were 
similar with and without concomitant methotrexate therapy. Quality of life in psoriatic arthritis 
patients was assessed at every timepoint using the disability index of the HAQ. The disability index 
score was significantly improved at all timepoints in psoriatic arthritis patients treated with Enbrel, 
relative to placebo (p < 0.001).  
Radiographic changes were assessed in the psoriatic arthritis study. Radiographs of hands and wrists 
were obtained at baseline and months 6, 12, and 24. The modified TSS at 12 months is presented in 
the Table below. In an analysis in which all patients who dropped out of the study for any reason were 
considered to have progressed, the percentage of patients without progression (TSS change ≤ 0.5) at 
12 months was higher in the Enbrel group compared with the placebo group (73% vs. 47%, 
respectively, p ≤ 0.001). The effect of Enbrel on radiographic progression was maintained in patients 
who continued on treatment during the second year. The slowing of peripheral joint damage was 
observed in patients with polyarticular symmetrical joint involvement.   
Mean (SE) Annualized Change from Baseline in Total Sharp Score 
Time 
Month 12 
SE = standard error.   
a. p = 0.0001.   
Placebo 
(n = 104) 
1.00 (0.29) 
Etanercept 
(n = 101) 
-0.03 (0.09)a 
Enbrel treatment resulted in improvement in physical function during the double-blind period, and this 
benefit was maintained during the longer-term exposure of up to 2 years. 
There is insufficient evidence of the efficacy of Enbrel in patients with ankylosing spondylitis-like and 
arthritis mutilans psoriatic arthropathies due to the small number of patients studied. 
No study has been performed in patients with psoriatic arthritis using the 50 mg once weekly dosing 
regimen. Evidence of efficacy for the once weekly dosing regimen in this patient population has been 
based on data from the study in patients with ankylosing spondylitis. 
Adult patients with ankylosing spondylitis 
The efficacy of Enbrel in ankylosing spondylitis was assessed in 3 randomised, double-blind studies 
comparing twice weekly administration of 25 mg Enbrel with placebo. A total of 401 patients were 
enrolled from which 203 were treated with Enbrel. The largest of these trials (n= 277) enrolled 
patients who were between 18 and 70 years of age and had active ankylosing spondylitis defined as 
visual analog scale (VAS) scores of ≥ 30 for average of duration and intensity of morning stiffness 
plus VAS scores of ≥ 30 for at least 2 of the following 3 parameters: patient global assessment; 
111 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
average of VAS values for nocturnal back pain and total back pain; average of 10 questions on the 
Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index (BASFI). Patients receiving DMARDs, NSAIDS, or 
corticosteroids could continue them on stable doses. Patients with complete ankylosis of the spine 
were not included in the study. Doses of 25 mg of Enbrel (based on dose-finding studies in patients 
with rheumatoid arthritis) or placebo were administered subcutaneously twice a week for 6 months in 
138 patients. 
The primary measure of efficacy (ASAS 20) was a ≥ 20% improvement in at least 3 of the 4 
Assessment in Ankylosing Spondylitis (ASAS) domains (patient global assessments, back pain, 
BASFI, and inflammation) and absence of deterioration in the remaining domain. ASAS 50 and 70 
responses used the same criteria with a 50% improvement or a 70% improvement, respectively. 
Compared to placebo, treatment with Enbrel resulted in significant improvements in the ASAS 20, 
ASAS 50 and ASAS 70 as early as 2 weeks after the initiation of therapy. 
Responses of Patients with Ankylosing Spondylitis in a 
Placebo-Controlled Trial 
Percent of Patients 
Placebo 
N = 139 
Enbrel 
N = 138 
22 
27 
23 
7 
13 
10 
2 
7 
5 
46a 
60a 
58a 
24a 
45a 
42a 
12b 
29b 
28b 
  Ankylosing Spondylitis 
Response 
  ASAS 20  
  2 weeks 
  3 months 
  6 months 
  ASAS 50  
  2 weeks 
  3 months 
  6 months 
  ASAS 70: 
  2 weeks 
  3 months 
  6 months  
 a: p <0.001, Enbrel vs. Placebo 
 b: p = 0.002, Enbrel vs. placebo 
Among patients with ankylosing spondylitis who received Enbrel, the clinical responses were apparent 
at the time of the first visit (2 weeks) and were maintained through 6 months of therapy. Responses 
were similar in patients who were or were not receiving concomitant therapies at baseline. 
Similar results were obtained in the 2 smaller ankylosing spondylitis trials. 
In a fourth study, the safety and efficacy of 50 mg Enbrel (two 25 mg SC injections) administered 
once weekly vs 25 mg Enbrel administered twice weekly were evaluated in a double-blind, 
placebo-controlled study of 356 patients with active ankylosing spondylitis. The safety and efficacy 
profiles of the 50 mg once weekly and 25 mg twice weekly regimens were similar. 
Adult patients with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
Study 1 
The efficacy of Enbrel in patients with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (nr-AxSpa) was 
assessed in a randomised, 12-week double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The study evaluated 
215 adult patients (modified intent-to-treat population) with active nr-AxSpa (18 to 49 years of age), 
112 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
defined as those patients meeting the ASAS classification criteria of axial spondyloarthritis but did not 
meet the modified New York criteria for AS. Patients were also required to have an inadequate 
response or intolerance to two or more NSAIDs. In the double-blind period, patients received Enbrel 
50 mg weekly or placebo for 12 weeks. The primary measure of efficacy (ASAS 40) was a 40% 
improvement in at least three of the four ASAS domains and absence of deterioration in the remaining 
domain. The double-blind period was followed by an open-label period during which all patients 
receive Enbrel 50 mg weekly for up to an additional 92 weeks. MRIs of the sacroiliac joint and spine 
were obtained to assess inflammation at baseline and at weeks 12 and 104. 
Compared to placebo, treatment with Enbrel resulted in statistically significant improvement in the 
ASAS 40, ASAS 20 and ASAS 5/6. Significant improvement was also observed for the ASAS partial 
remission and BASDAI 50. Week 12 results are shown in the table below. 
Efficacy Response in Placebo-Controlled nr-AxSpa Study: Percent of Patients Achieving 
Endpoints 
Double-Blind Clinical 
Responses at Week 12  
ASAS** 40 
ASAS 20 
ASAS 5/6 
ASAS partial remission 
BASDAI***50 
*Some patients did not provide complete data for each endpoint 
**ASAS=Assessments in Spondyloarthritis International Society 
***Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index 
a: p <0.001, b:<0.01 and c:<0.05, respectively between Enbrel and placebo 
Placebo 
N=106 to 109* 
15.7 
36.1 
10.4 
11.9 
23.9 
Enbrel 
N=103 to 105* 
32.4b 
52.4c 
33.0a 
24.8c 
43.8b 
At week 12, there was a statistically significant improvement in the SPARCC (Spondyloarthritis 
Research Consortium of Canada) score for the sacroiliac joint (SIJ) as measured by MRI for patients 
receiving Enbrel. Adjusted mean change from baseline was 3.8 for Enbrel treated (n=95) versus 0.8 
for placebo treated (n=105) patients (p<0.001). At week 104, the mean change from baseline in the 
SPARCC score measured on MRI for all Enbrel-treated subjects was 4.64 for the SIJ (n=153) and 
1.40 the spine (n=154). 
Enbrel showed statistically significantly greater improvement from baseline to week 12 compared to 
placebo in most health-related quality of life and physical function assessments, including BASFI 
(Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index), EuroQol 5D Overall Health State Score and SF-36 
Physical Component Score. 
Clinical responses among nr-AxSpa patients who received Enbrel were apparent at the time of the first 
visit (2 weeks) and were maintained through 2 years of therapy. Improvements in health-related 
quality of life and physical function were also maintained through 2 years of therapy. The 2 year data 
did not reveal any new safety findings. At week 104, 8 subjects had progressed to a score of bilateral 
Grade 2 on spinal X-ray according to the modified New York Radiological Grade, indicative of axial 
spondyloarthropathy. 
Study 2 
This multi-center, open-label, phase 4, 3-period study evaluated the withdrawal and retreatment of 
Enbrel in patients with active nr-AxSpa who achieved an adequate response (inactive disease defined 
as Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Score (ASDAS) C-reactive protein (CRP) less than 1.3) 
following 24 weeks of treatment.  
209 adult patients with active nr-AxSpa (18 to 49 years of age), defined as those patients meeting the 
Assessment of SpondyloArthritis International Society (ASAS) classification criteria of axial 
spondyloarthritis (but not meeting the modified New York criteria for AS), having positive MRI 
113 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
findings (active inflammation on MRI highly suggestive of sacroiliitis associated with SpA) and/or 
positive hsCRP (defined as high sensitivity C-reactive protein [hsCRP] > 3 mg/l), and active 
symptoms defined by an ASDAS CRP greater than or equal to 2.1 at the screening visit received 
open-label Enbrel 50 mg weekly plus stable background NSAID at the optimal tolerated 
anti-inflammatory dosage for 24 weeks in Period 1. Patients were also required to have an inadequate 
response or intolerance to two or more NSAIDs. At week 24, 119 (57%) patients achieved inactive 
disease and entered into the Period 2 40-week withdrawal phase where subjects discontinued 
etanercept, yet maintained the background NSAID. The primary measure of efficacy was the 
occurrence of flare (defined as an ASDAS erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) greater than or equal 
to 2.1) within 40 weeks following withdrawal of Enbrel. Patients who flared were retreated with 
Enbrel 50 mg weekly for 12 weeks (Period 3). 
In Period 2, the proportion of patients experiencing ≥1 flare increased from 22% (25/112) at week 4 to 
67% (77/115) at week 40. Overall, 75% (86/115) patients experienced a flare at any time point within 
40 weeks following withdrawal of Enbrel.  
The key secondary objective of Study 2 was to estimate time to flare after withdrawal of Enbrel and 
additionally compare the time to flare to patients from Study 1 who met the Study 2 withdrawal phase 
entry requirements and continued Enbrel therapy.   
The median time to flare following withdrawal of Enbrel was 16 weeks (95% CI: 13-24 weeks). Less 
than 25% of patients in Study 1 who did not have treatment withdrawn experienced a flare over the 
equivalent 40-weeks as in Period 2 Study 2. The time to flare was statistically significantly shorter in 
subjects who discontinued Enbrel treatment (Study 2) compared to subjects who received continuous 
etanercept treatment (Study 1), p<0.0001. 
Of the 87 patients who entered Period 3 and were retreated with Enbrel 50 mg weekly for 12 weeks, 
62% (54/87) reachieved inactive disease, with 50% of them reachieving it within 5 weeks (95% CI: 
4-8 weeks). 
Adult patients with plaque psoriasis 
Enbrel is recommended for use in patients as defined in section 4.1. Patients who “failed to respond 
to” in the target population is defined by insufficient response (PASI< 50 or PGA less than good), or 
worsening of the disease while on treatment, and who were adequately dosed for a sufficiently long 
duration to assess response with at least one of the three major systemic therapies as available. 
The efficacy of Enbrel versus other systemic therapies in patients with moderate to severe psoriasis 
(responsive to other systemic therapies) has not been evaluated in studies directly comparing Enbrel 
with other systemic therapies. Instead, the safety and efficacy of Enbrel were assessed in four 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. The primary efficacy endpoint in all four studies 
was the proportion of patients in each treatment group who achieved the PASI 75 (i.e., at least a 75% 
improvement in the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index score from baseline) at 12 weeks. 
Study 1 was a Phase 2 study in patients with active but clinically stable plaque psoriasis involving 
≥ 10% of the body surface area that were ≥ 18 years old. One hundred and twelve (112) patients were 
randomised to receive a dose of 25 mg of Enbrel (n=57) or placebo (n=55) twice a week for 24 weeks. 
Study 2 evaluated 652 patients with chronic plaque psoriasis using the same inclusion criteria as study 
1 with the addition of a minimum psoriasis area and severity index (PASI) of 10 at screening. Enbrel 
was administered at doses of 25 mg once a week, 25 mg twice a week or 50 mg twice a week for 
6 consecutive months. During the first 12 weeks of the double-blind treatment period, patients 
received placebo or one of the above three Enbrel doses. After 12 weeks of treatment, patients in the 
placebo group began treatment with blinded Enbrel (25 mg twice a week); patients in the active 
treatment groups continued to week 24 on the dose to which they were originally randomised. 
114 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 3 evaluated 583 patients and had the same inclusion criteria as study 2. Patients in this study 
received a dose of 25 mg or 50 mg Enbrel, or placebo twice a week for 12 weeks and then all patients 
received open-label 25 mg Enbrel twice weekly for an additional 24 weeks. 
Study 4 evaluated 142 patients and had similar inclusion criteria to studies 2 and 3. Patients in this 
study received a dose of 50 mg Enbrel or placebo once weekly for 12 weeks and then all patients 
received open-label 50 mg Enbrel once weekly for an additional 12 weeks. 
In study 1, the Enbrel-treated group had a significantly higher proportion of patients with a PASI 75 
response at week 12 (30%) compared to the placebo-treated group (2%) (p< 0.0001). At 24 weeks, 
56% of patients in the Enbrel-treated group had achieved the PASI 75 compared to 5% of 
placebo-treated patients. Key results of studies 2, 3 and 4 are shown below. 
Responses of Patients with Psoriasis in Studies 2, 3 And 4 
------------------Study 2--------------
- 
---------------Study 3------------
- 
---------------Study 4------------
- 
--------Enbrel------- 
50 mg 
25 mg 
BIW 
BIW 
n = 196 
n = 196 
wk 12 
wk 12 
Placebo 
n = 46 
wk 12 
-------Enbrel------ 
50 mg 
50 mg 
QW 
QW 
n = 90 
n = 96 
wk 24a 
wk 12 
Placebo 
n = 193 
wk 12 
Placebo 
n = 166 
wk 12 
----------Enbrel--------- 
50 mg  
BIW 
25 mg  
BIW 
n = 
162 
wk 
12 
58* 
34* 
n = 
162 
wk 
24a 
70 
44 
n = 
164 
wk 
12 
74* 
49* 
n = 
164 
wk 
24a 
77 
59 
9 
3 
14 
4 
Respons
e (%) 
PASI 50 
PASI 75 
DSGA b, 
clear or 
almost 
clear 
*p ≤ 0.0001 compared with placebo 
a. No statistical comparisons to placebo were made at week 24 in studies 2 and 4 because the original 
placebo group began receiving Enbrel 25 mg BIW or 50 mg once weekly from week 13 to week 24. 
b. Dermatologist Static Global Assessment. Clear or almost clear defined as 0 or 1 on a 0 to 5 scale. 
64* 
34* 
69* 
38* 
77* 
49* 
39* 
57* 
39* 
34* 
49* 
9 
2 
55 
39 
5 
4 
4 
83 
71 
64 
Among patients with plaque psoriasis who received Enbrel, significant responses relative to placebo 
were apparent at the time of the first visit (2 weeks) and were maintained through 24 weeks of therapy. 
Study 2 also had a drug withdrawal period during which patients who achieved a PASI improvement 
of at least 50% at week 24 had treatment stopped. Patients were observed off treatment for the 
occurrence of rebound (PASI ≥ 150% of baseline) and for the time to relapse (defined as a loss of at 
least half of the improvement achieved between baseline and week 24). During the withdrawal period, 
symptoms of psoriasis gradually returned with a median time to disease relapse of 3 months. No 
rebound flare of disease and no psoriasis-related serious adverse events were observed. There was 
some evidence to support a benefit of re-treatment with Enbrel in patients initially responding to 
treatment. 
In study 3, the majority of patients (77%) who were initially randomised to 50 mg twice weekly and 
had their Enbrel dose decreased at week 12 to 25 mg twice weekly maintained their PASI 75 response 
through week 36. For patients who received 25 mg twice weekly throughout the study, the PASI 75 
response continued to improve between weeks 12 and 36. 
In study 4, the Enbrel-treated group had a higher proportion of patients with PASI 75 at week 12 
(38%) compared to the placebo-treated group (2%) (p<0.0001). For patients who received 50 mg once 
weekly throughout the study, the efficacy responses continued to improve with 71% achieving PASI 
75 at week 24. 
115 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In long-term (up to 34 months) open-label studies where Enbrel was given without interruption, 
clinical responses were sustained and safety was comparable to shorter-term studies. 
An analysis of clinical trial data did not reveal any baseline disease characteristics that would assist 
clinicians in selecting the most appropriate dosing option (intermittent or continuous). Consequently, 
the choice of intermittent or continuous therapy should be based upon physician judgment and 
individual patient needs. 
Antibodies to Enbrel 
Antibodies to etanercept have been detected in the sera of some subjects treated with etanercept. 
These antibodies have all been non-neutralising and are generally transient. There appears to be no 
correlation between antibody development and clinical response or adverse events. 
In subjects treated with approved doses of etanercept in clinical trials for up to 12 months, cumulative 
rates of anti-etanercept antibodies were approximately 6% of subjects with rheumatoid arthritis, 7.5% 
of subjects with psoriatic arthritis, 2% of subjects with ankylosing spondylitis, 7% of subjects with 
psoriasis, 9.7% of subjects with paediatric psoriasis, and 4.8% of subjects with juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis.  
The proportion of subjects who developed antibodies to etanercept in longer-term trials (of up to 
3.5 years) increases over time, as expected. However, due to their transient nature, the incidence of 
antibodies detected at each assessment point was typically less than 7% in rheumatoid arthritis 
subjects and psoriasis subjects. 
In a long-term psoriasis study in which patients received 50 mg twice weekly for 96 weeks, the 
incidence of antibodies observed at each assessment point was up to approximately 9%. 
Paediatric population 
Paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
The safety and efficacy of Enbrel were assessed in a two-part study in 69 children with 
polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis who had a variety of juvenile idiopathic arthritis onset 
types (polyarthritis, pauciarthritis, systemic onset). Patients aged 4 to 17 years with moderately to 
severely active polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis refractory to, or intolerant of, 
methotrexate were enrolled; patients remained on a stable dose of a single nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drug and/or prednisone (< 0.2 mg/kg/day or 10 mg maximum). In part 1, all patients 
received 0.4 mg/kg (maximum 25 mg per dose) Enbrel subcutaneously twice weekly. In part 2, 
patients with a clinical response at day 90 were randomised to remain on Enbrel or receive placebo for 
four months and assessed for disease flare. Responses were measured using the ACR Pedi 30, defined 
as ≥ 30% improvement in at least three of six and ≥ 30% worsening in no more than one of six JRA 
core set criteria, including active joint count, limitation of motion, physician and patient/parent global 
assessments, functional assessment, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR). Disease flare was 
defined as a ≥ 30% worsening in three of six JRA core set criteria and ≥ 30% improvement in not 
more than one of the six JRA core set criteria and a minimum of two active joints. 
In part 1 of the study, 51 of 69 (74%) patients demonstrated a clinical response and entered part 2. In 
part 2, 6 of 25 (24%) patients remaining on Enbrel experienced a disease flare compared to 20 of 
26 (77%) patients receiving placebo (p=0.007). From the start of part 2, the median time to flare was 
≥ 116 days for patients who received Enbrel and 28 days for patients who received placebo. Of 
patients who demonstrated a clinical response at 90 days and entered part 2 of the study, some of the 
patients remaining on Enbrel continued to improve from month 3 through month 7, while those who 
received placebo did not improve. 
116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In an open-label, safety extension study, 58 paediatric patients from the above study (from the age of 
4 years at time of enrolment) continued to receive Enbrel for up to 10 years. Rates of serious adverse 
events and serious infections did not increase with long-term exposure. 
Long-term safety of Enbrel monotherapy (n=103), Enbrel plus methotrexate (n=294), or methotrexate 
monotherapy (n=197) were assessed for up to 3 years in a registry of 594 children aged 2 to 18 years 
with juvenile idiopathic arthritis, 39 of whom were 2 to 3 years of age. Overall, infections were more 
commonly reported in patients treated with etanercept compared to methotrexate alone (3.8 versus 
2%), and the infections associated with etanercept use were of a more severe nature. 
In another open-label single-arm study (n=127), 60 patients with extended oligoarthritis (EO) 
(15 patients aged 2 to 4, 23 patients aged 5 to 11 and 22 patients aged 12 to 17 years old), 38 patients 
with enthesitis-related arthritis (12 to 17 years old), and 29 patients with psoriatic arthritis (12 to 
17 years old) were treated with Enbrel at a dose of 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 50 mg per dose) 
administered weekly for 12 weeks. In each of the JIA subtypes, the majority of patients met ACR Pedi 
30 criteria and demonstrated clinical improvement in secondary endpoints such as number of tender 
joints and physician global assessment. The safety profile was consistent with that observed in other 
JIA studies.  
Of the 127 patients in the parent study, 109 participated in the open-label extension study and were 
followed for an additional 8 years for a total of up to 10 years. At the end of the extension study, 
84/109 (77%) patients had completed the study; 27 (25%) while actively taking Enbrel, 7 (6%) had 
withdrawn from treatment due to low/inactive disease; 5 (5%) had re-started Enbrel following an 
earlier withdrawal from treatment; and 45 (41%) had stopped Enbrel (but remained under 
observation); 25/109 (23%) patients permanently discontinued from the study. Improvements in 
clinical status achieved in the parent study were generally maintained for all efficacy endpoints during 
the entire follow-up period. Patients actively taking Enbrel could enter an optional withdrawal-
retreatment period once during the extension study based on investigator’s judgement of clinical 
response. 30 patients entered the withdrawal period. 17 patients were reported to have a flare (defined 
as ≥ 30% worsening in at least 3 of the 6 ACR Pedi components with ≥ 30% improvement in not more 
than 1 of the remaining 6 components and a minimum of 2 active joints); median time to flare after 
Enbrel withdrawal was 190 days. 13 patients were re-treated and the median time to re-treatment from 
withdrawal was estimated as 274 days. Due to the small number of data points, these results should be 
interpreted with caution. 
The safety profile was consistent with that observed in the parent study. 
Studies have not been done in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis to assess the effects of 
continued Enbrel therapy in patients who do not respond within 3 months of initiating Enbrel therapy. 
Additionally, studies have not been conducted to assess the effects of reducing the recommended dose 
of Enbrel following its long-term use in patients with JIA. 
Paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
The efficacy of Enbrel was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in 211 
paediatric patients aged 4 to 17 years with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis (as defined by a sPGA 
score ≥ 3, involving ≥ 10% of the BSA, and PASI ≥ 12). Eligible patients had a history of receiving 
phototherapy or systemic therapy, or were inadequately controlled on topical therapy. 
Patients received Enbrel 0.8 mg/kg (up to 50 mg) or placebo once weekly for 12 weeks. At week 12, 
more patients randomised to Enbrel had positive efficacy responses (e.g. PASI 75) than those 
randomised to placebo. 
117 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Paediatric Plaque Psoriasis Outcomes at 12 Weeks 
Enbrel 
0.8 mg/kg Once 
Weekly 
(N = 106) 
60 (57%)a 
79 (75%)a 
PASI 75, n (%) 
PASI 50, n (%) 
sPGA “clear” or “minimal”, n (%) 
Abbreviation: sPGA-static Physician Global Assessment. 
a.  p < 0.0001 compared with placebo. 
56 (53%)a 
Placebo 
(N = 105) 
12 (11%) 
24 (23%) 
14 (13%) 
After the 12-week double-blind treatment period, all patients received Enbrel 0.8 mg/kg (up to 50 mg) 
once weekly for additional 24 weeks. Responses observed during the open-label period were similar to 
those observed in the double-blind period. 
During a randomised withdrawal period, significantly more patients re-randomised to placebo 
experienced disease relapse (loss of PASI 75 response) compared with patients re-randomised to 
Enbrel. With continued therapy, responses were maintained up to 48 weeks.  
The long-term safety and effectiveness of Enbrel 0.8 mg/kg (up to 50 mg) once weekly was assessed 
in an open-label extension study of 181 paediatric subjects with plaque psoriasis for up to 2 years 
beyond the 48 week study discussed above. Long-term experience with Enbrel was generally 
comparable to the original 48-week study and did not reveal any new safety findings.  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Etanercept serum values were determined by an Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) 
method, which may detect ELISA-reactive degradation products as well as the parent compound. 
Absorption 
Etanercept is slowly absorbed from the site of subcutaneous injection, reaching maximum 
concentration approximately 48 hours after a single dose. The absolute bioavailability is 76%. With 
twice weekly doses, it is anticipated that steady-state concentrations are approximately twice as high 
as those observed after single doses. After a single subcutaneous dose of 25 mg Enbrel, the average 
maximum serum concentration observed in healthy volunteers was 1.65 ± 0.66 µg/ml, and the area 
under the curve was 235 ± 96.6 µg•hr/ml. 
Mean serum concentration profiles at steady state in treated RA patients were Cmax of 2.4 mg/l vs. 
2.6 mg/l, Cmin of 1.2 mg/l vs. 1.4 mg/l, and partial AUC of 297 mgh/l vs. 316 mgh/l for 50 mg Enbrel 
once weekly (n=21) vs. 25 mg Enbrel twice weekly (n=16), respectively. In an open-label, single-
dose, two-treatment, crossover study in healthy volunteers, etanercept administered as a single 
50 mg/ml injection was found to be bioequivalent to two simultaneous injections of 25 mg/ml. 
In a population pharmacokinetics analysis in ankylosing spondylitis patients, the etanercept steady 
state AUCs were 466 µg•hr/ml and 474 µg•hr/ml for 50 mg Enbrel once weekly (N = 154) and 25 mg 
twice weekly (N = 148), respectively. 
Distribution 
A biexponential curve is required to describe the concentration time curve of etanercept. The central 
volume of distribution of etanercept is 7.6 l, while the volume of distribution at steady-state is 10.4 l. 
118 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elimination 
Etanercept is cleared slowly from the body. The half-life is long, approximately 70 hours. Clearance is 
approximately 0.066 l/hr in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, somewhat lower than the value of 
0.11 l/hr observed in healthy volunteers. Additionally, the pharmacokinetics of Enbrel in rheumatoid 
arthritis patients, ankylosing spondylitis and plaque psoriasis patients are similar. 
There is no apparent pharmacokinetic difference between males and females. 
Linearity 
Dose proportionality has not been formally evaluated, but there is no apparent saturation of clearance 
across the dosing range. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Although there is elimination of radioactivity in urine after administration of radiolabelled etanercept 
to patients and volunteers, increased etanercept concentrations were not observed in patients with 
acute renal failure. The presence of renal impairment should not require a change in dosage. 
Hepatic impairment 
Increased etanercept concentrations were not observed in patients with acute hepatic failure. The 
presence of hepatic impairment should not require a change in dosage. 
Elderly 
The impact of advanced age was studied in the population pharmacokinetic analysis of etanercept 
serum concentrations. Clearance and volume estimates in patients aged 65 to 87 years were similar to 
estimates in patients less than 65 years of age. 
Paediatric population 
Paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
In a polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis trial with Enbrel, 69 patients (aged 4 to 17 years) 
were administered 0.4 mg Enbrel/kg twice weekly for three months. Serum concentration profiles 
were similar to those seen in adult rheumatoid arthritis patients. The youngest children (4 years of age) 
had reduced clearance (increased clearance when normalised by weight) compared with older children 
(12 years of age) and adults. Simulation of dosing suggests that while older children (10-17 years of 
age) will have serum levels close to those seen in adults, younger children will have appreciably lower 
levels. 
Paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
Patients with paediatric plaque psoriasis (aged 4 to 17 years) were administered 0.8 mg/kg (up to a 
maximum dose of 50 mg per week) of etanercept once weekly for up to 48 weeks. The mean serum 
steady state trough concentrations ranged from 1.6 to 2.1 mcg/ml at weeks 12, 24, and 48. These mean 
concentrations in patients with paediatric plaque psoriasis were similar to the concentrations observed 
in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (treated with 0.4 mg/kg etanercept twice weekly, up to 
maximum dose of 50 mg per week). These mean concentrations were similar to those seen in adult 
patients with plaque psoriasis treated with 25 mg etanercept twice weekly. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In the toxicological studies with Enbrel, no dose-limiting or target organ toxicity was evident. Enbrel 
was considered to be non-genotoxic from a battery of in vitro and in vivo studies. Carcinogenicity 
studies, and standard assessments of fertility and postnatal toxicity, were not performed with Enbrel 
due to the development of neutralising antibodies in rodents. 
119 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enbrel did not induce lethality or notable signs of toxicity in mice or rats following a single 
subcutaneous dose of 2000 mg/kg or a single intravenous dose of 1000 mg/kg. Enbrel did not elicit 
dose-limiting or target organ toxicity in cynomolgus monkeys following twice weekly subcutaneous 
administration for 4 or 26 consecutive weeks at a dose (15 mg/kg) that resulted in AUC-based serum 
drug concentrations that were over 27-fold higher than that obtained in humans at the recommended 
dose of 25 mg. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sucrose  
Sodium chloride 
L-Arginine hydrochloride 
Sodium phosphate monobasic dihydrate 
Sodium phosphate dibasic dihydrate 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
30 months. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C).  
Do not freeze. 
Enbrel may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 25°C for a single period of up to four 
weeks; after which, it should not be refrigerated again. Enbrel should be discarded if not used within 
four weeks of removal from refrigeration. 
Keep the pre-filled pens in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Pre-filled pen containing a 25 mg pre-filled syringe of Enbrel. The syringe inside the pen is made from 
clear type 1 glass with a stainless steel 27 gauge needle, rubber needle cover, and plastic plunger. The 
needle cap of the pre-filled pen contains dry natural rubber (a derivative of latex). See section 4.4.  
Cartons contain 4, 8 or 24 pre-filled pens of Enbrel with 4, 8 or 24 alcohol swabs. Not all pack sizes 
may be marketed. 
50 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Pre-filled pen containing a 50 mg pre-filled syringe of Enbrel. The syringe inside the pen is made from 
clear type 1 glass with a stainless steel 27 gauge needle, rubber needle cover, and plastic plunger. The 
needle cap of the pre-filled pen contains dry natural rubber (a derivative of latex). See section 4.4.  
120 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cartons contain 2, 4 or 12 pre-filled pens of Enbrel with 2, 4 or 12 alcohol swabs. Not all pack sizes 
may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Instructions for use and handling 
Before injection, Enbrel single-use pre-filled pens should be allowed to reach room temperature 
(approximately 15 to 30 minutes). The needle cover should not be removed while allowing the 
pre-filled pen to reach room temperature. By looking through the inspection window, the solution 
should be clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to pale yellow or pale brown and may contain small 
translucent or white particles of protein.  
Comprehensive instructions for administration are given in the package leaflet (section 7 "Instructions 
for use"). 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
EU/1/99/126/023 
EU/1/99/126/024 
EU/1/99/126/025 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
EU/1/99/126/019 
EU/1/99/126/020 
EU/1/99/126/021 
9.  DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 03 February 2000 
Date of last renewal: 26 November 2009 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
121 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enbrel 10 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection for paediatric use 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each vial contains 10 mg of etanercept. When reconstituted, the solution contains 10 mg/ml of 
etanercept. 
Etanercept is a human tumour necrosis factor receptor p75 Fc fusion protein produced by recombinant 
DNA technology in a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) mammalian expression system.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder and solvent for solution for injection (powder for injection). 
The powder is white. The solvent is a clear, colourless liquid. 
4.  CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Treatment of polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative) and extended oligoarthritis in 
children and adolescents from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to, or who have 
proved intolerant of, methotrexate.  
Treatment of psoriatic arthritis in adolescents from the age of 12 years who have had an inadequate 
response to, or who have proved intolerant of, methotrexate. 
Treatment of enthesitis-related arthritis in adolescents from the age of 12 years who have had an 
inadequate response to, or who have proved intolerant of, conventional therapy.  
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of chronic severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents from the age of 6 years who 
are inadequately controlled by, or are intolerant to, other systemic therapies or phototherapies. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Enbrel treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of juvenile idiopathic arthritis or paediatric plaque psoriasis. Patients treated 
with Enbrel should be given the Patient Card. 
122 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posology 
Special populations 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required. 
Paediatric population 
The 10 mg presentation is for paediatric patients prescribed a dose of 10 mg or less. Each vial of Enbrel 
10 mg should be used on a single occasion in a single patient, and the remainder of the vial should be 
discarded. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis  
The recommended dose is 0.4 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 25 mg per dose) given twice weekly as a 
subcutaneous injection with an interval of 3-4 days between doses or 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 
50 mg per dose) given once weekly. Discontinuation of treatment should be considered in patients 
who show no response after 4 months. 
No formal clinical trials have been conducted in children aged 2 to 3 years. However, limited safety 
data from a patient registry suggest that the safety profile in children from 2 to 3 years of age is similar 
to that seen in adults and children aged 4 years and older, when dosed every week with 0.8 mg/kg 
subcutaneously (see section 5.1). 
There is generally no applicable use of Enbrel in children aged below 2 years in the indication juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis (age 6 years and above) 
The recommended dose is 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 50 mg per dose) once weekly for up to 
24 weeks. Treatment should be discontinued in patients who show no response after 12 weeks. 
If re-treatment with Enbrel is indicated, the above guidance on treatment duration should be followed. 
The dose should be 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 50 mg per dose) once weekly. 
There is generally no applicable use of Enbrel in children aged below 6 years in the indication plaque 
psoriasis. 
Method of administration 
Enbrel is administered by subcutaneous injection. Enbrel powder for solution must be reconstituted in 
1 ml of solvent before use (see section 6.6). 
Comprehensive instructions for the preparation and administration of the reconstituted Enbrel vial are 
given in the package leaflet, section 7, "Instructions for use." Detailed instructions on unintentional 
dosing or scheduling variations, including missed doses, are provided in section 3 of the package 
leaflet. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Sepsis or risk of sepsis. 
Treatment with Enbrel should not be initiated in patients with active infections, including chronic or 
localised infections. 
123 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the brand name and batch 
number of the administered product should be clearly recorded (or stated) in the patient file. 
Infections 
Patients should be evaluated for infections before, during, and after treatment with Enbrel, taking into 
consideration that the mean elimination half-life of etanercept is approximately 70 hours (range 7 to 
300 hours). 
Serious infections, sepsis, tuberculosis, and opportunistic infections, including invasive fungal 
infections, listeriosis and legionellosis, have been reported with the use of Enbrel (see section 4.8). 
These infections were due to bacteria, mycobacteria, fungi, viruses and parasites (including protozoa). 
In some cases, particular fungal and other opportunistic infections have not been recognised, resulting 
in delay of appropriate treatment and sometimes death. In evaluating patients for infections, the 
patient’s risk for relevant opportunistic infections (e.g., exposure to endemic mycoses) should be 
considered.  
Patients who develop a new infection while undergoing treatment with Enbrel should be monitored 
closely. Administration of Enbrel should be discontinued if a patient develops a serious infection. The 
safety and efficacy of Enbrel in patients with chronic infections have not been evaluated. Physicians 
should exercise caution when considering the use of Enbrel in patients with a history of recurring or 
chronic infections or with underlying conditions that may predispose patients to infections, such as 
advanced or poorly controlled diabetes. 
Tuberculosis 
Cases of active tuberculosis, including miliary tuberculosis and tuberculosis with extra-pulmonary 
location, have been reported in patients treated with Enbrel. 
Before starting treatment with Enbrel, all patients must be evaluated for both active and inactive 
(‘latent’) tuberculosis. This evaluation should include a detailed medical history with personal history 
of tuberculosis or possible previous contact with tuberculosis and previous and/or current 
immunosuppressive therapy. Appropriate screening tests, i.e., tuberculin skin test and chest X-ray, 
should be performed in all patients (local recommendations may apply). It is recommended that the 
conduct of these tests should be recorded in the Patient Card. Prescribers are reminded of the risk of 
false negative tuberculin skin test results, especially in patients who are severely ill or 
immunocompromised. 
If active tuberculosis is diagnosed, Enbrel therapy must not be initiated. If inactive (‘latent’) 
tuberculosis is diagnosed, treatment for latent tuberculosis must be started with anti-tuberculosis 
therapy before the initiation of Enbrel, and in accordance with local recommendations. In this 
situation, the benefit/risk balance of Enbrel therapy should be very carefully considered. 
All patients should be informed to seek medical advice if signs/symptoms suggestive of tuberculosis 
(e.g., persistent cough, wasting/weight loss, low-grade fever) appear during or after Enbrel treatment. 
Hepatitis B reactivation 
Reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who were previously infected with the hepatitis B virus (HBV) 
and had received concomitant TNF-antagonists, including Enbrel, has been reported. This includes 
reports of reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who were anti-HBc positive but HBsAg negative. 
Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with Enbrel. For patients who 
test positive for HBV infection, consultation with a physician with expertise in the treatment of 
hepatitis B is recommended. Caution should be exercised when administering Enbrel in patients 
124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
previously infected with HBV. These patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of active 
HBV infection throughout therapy and for several weeks following termination of therapy. Adequate 
data from treating patients infected with HBV with anti-viral therapy in conjunction with 
TNF-antagonist therapy are not available. In patients who develop HBV infection, Enbrel should be 
stopped and effective anti-viral therapy with appropriate supportive treatment should be initiated. 
Worsening of hepatitis C 
There have been reports of worsening of hepatitis C in patients receiving Enbrel. Enbrel should be 
used with caution in patients with a history of hepatitis C. 
Concurrent treatment with anakinra  
Concurrent administration of Enbrel and anakinra has been associated with an increased risk of serious 
infections and neutropenia compared to Enbrel alone. This combination has not demonstrated 
increased clinical benefit. Thus, the combined use of Enbrel and anakinra is not recommended (see 
sections 4.5 and 4.8). 
Concurrent treatment with abatacept  
In clinical studies, concurrent administration of abatacept and Enbrel resulted in increased incidences 
of serious adverse events. This combination has not demonstrated increased clinical benefit; such use 
is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Allergic reactions 
Allergic reactions associated with Enbrel administration have been reported commonly. Allergic 
reactions have included angioedema and urticaria; serious reactions have occurred. If any serious 
allergic or anaphylactic reaction occurs, Enbrel therapy should be discontinued immediately and 
appropriate therapy initiated. 
The rubber tip cap (closure) of the diluent syringe contains latex (dry natural rubber) that may cause 
hypersensitivity reactions when handled by, or when Enbrel is administered to, persons with known or 
possible latex sensitivity. 
Immunosuppression 
The possibility exists for TNF-antagonists, including Enbrel, to affect host defences against infections 
and malignancies since TNF mediates inflammation and modulates cellular immune responses. In a 
study of 49 adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with Enbrel, there was no evidence of 
depression of delayed-type hypersensitivity, depression of immunoglobulin levels, or change in 
enumeration of effector cell populations. 
Two juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients developed varicella infection and signs and symptoms of 
aseptic meningitis, which resolved without sequelae. Patients with a significant exposure to varicella 
virus should temporarily discontinue Enbrel therapy and be considered for prophylactic treatment with 
Varicella Zoster Immune Globulin. 
The safety and efficacy of Enbrel in patients with immunosuppression have not been evaluated. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
Solid and haematopoietic malignancies (excluding skin cancers) 
Reports of various malignancies (including breast and lung carcinoma and lymphoma) have been 
received in the postmarketing period (see section 4.8).  
125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the controlled portions of clinical trials of TNF-antagonists, more cases of lymphoma have been 
observed among patients receiving a TNF-antagonist compared with control patients. However, the 
occurrence was rare, and the follow-up period of placebo patients was shorter than for patients 
receiving TNF-antagonist therapy. In the postmarketing setting, cases of leukaemia have been reported 
in patients treated with TNF-antagonists. There is an increased background risk for lymphoma and 
leukaemia in rheumatoid arthritis patients with long-standing, highly active, inflammatory disease, 
which complicates risk estimation. 
Based on current knowledge, a possible risk for the development of lymphomas, leukaemia or other 
haematopoietic or solid malignancies in patients treated with a TNF-antagonist cannot be excluded. 
Caution should be exercised when considering TNF-antagonist therapy for patients with a history of 
malignancy or when considering continuing treatment in patients who develop a malignancy. 
Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults (up to 
22 years of age) treated with TNF-antagonists (initiation of therapy ≤ 18 years of age), including 
Enbrel, in the postmarketing setting. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas. The other cases 
represented a variety of different malignancies and included rare malignancies typically associated 
with immunosuppression. A risk for the development of malignancies in children and adolescents 
treated with TNF-antagonists cannot be excluded. 
Skin cancers 
Melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) have been reported in patients treated with 
TNF-antagonists, including Enbrel. Postmarketing cases of Merkel cell carcinoma have been reported 
very infrequently in patients treated with Enbrel. Periodic skin examination is recommended for all 
patients, particularly those with risk factors for skin cancer. 
Combining the results of controlled clinical trials, more cases of NMSC were observed in patients 
receiving Enbrel compared with control patients, particularly in patients with psoriasis.  
Vaccinations 
Live vaccines should not be given concurrently with Enbrel. No data are available on the secondary 
transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving Enbrel. In a double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, randomised clinical study in adult patients with psoriatic arthritis, 184 patients also 
received a multivalent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine at week 4. In this study, most psoriatic 
arthritis patients receiving Enbrel were able to mount effective B-cell immune response to 
pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine, but titres in aggregate were moderately lower, and few patients 
had two-fold rises in titres compared to patients not receiving Enbrel. The clinical significance of this 
is unknown. 
Autoantibody formation 
Treatment with Enbrel may result in the formation of autoimmune antibodies (see section 4.8). 
Haematologic reactions 
Rare cases of pancytopenia and very rare cases of aplastic anaemia, some with fatal outcome, have 
been reported in patients treated with Enbrel. Caution should be exercised in patients being treated 
with Enbrel who have a previous history of blood dyscrasias. All patients and parents/caregivers 
should be advised that if the patient develops signs and symptoms suggestive of blood dyscrasias or 
infections (e.g., persistent fever, sore throat, bruising, bleeding, paleness) whilst on Enbrel, they 
should seek immediate medical advice. Such patients should be investigated urgently, including full 
blood count; if blood dyscrasias are confirmed, Enbrel should be discontinued. 
126 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neurological disorders 
There have been rare reports of CNS demyelinating disorders in patients treated with Enbrel (see 
section 4.8). Additionally, there have been rare reports of peripheral demyelinating polyneuropathies 
(including Guillain-Barré syndrome, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, 
demyelinating polyneuropathy, and multifocal motor neuropathy). Although no clinical trials have 
been performed evaluating Enbrel therapy in patients with multiple sclerosis, clinical trials of other 
TNF antagonists in patients with multiple sclerosis have shown increases in disease activity. A careful 
risk/benefit evaluation, including a neurologic assessment, is recommended when prescribing Enbrel 
to patients with pre-existing or recent onset of demyelinating disease, or to those who are considered 
to have an increased risk of developing demyelinating disease. 
Combination therapy 
In a controlled clinical trial of two years duration in adult rheumatoid arthritis patients, the 
combination of Enbrel and methotrexate did not result in unexpected safety findings, and the safety 
profile of Enbrel when given in combination with methotrexate was similar to the profiles reported in 
studies of Enbrel and methotrexate alone. Long-term studies to assess the safety of the combination 
are ongoing. The long-term safety of Enbrel in combination with other disease-modifying 
antirheumatic drugs (DMARD) has not been established. 
The use of Enbrel in combination with other systemic therapies or phototherapy for the treatment of 
psoriasis has not been studied. 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
Based on pharmacokinetic data (see section 5.2), no dose adjustment is needed in patients with renal 
or hepatic impairment; clinical experience in such patients is limited. 
Congestive heart failure (Cardiac failure congestive) 
Physicians should use caution when using Enbrel in patients who have congestive heart failure (CHF). 
There have been postmarketing reports of worsening of CHF, with and without identifiable 
precipitating factors, in patients taking Enbrel. There have also been rare (< 0.1%) reports of new 
onset CHF, including CHF in patients without known pre-existing cardiovascular disease. Some of 
these patients have been under 50 years of age. Two large clinical trials evaluating the use of Enbrel in 
the treatment of CHF were terminated early due to lack of efficacy. Although not conclusive, data 
from one of these trials suggest a possible tendency toward worsening CHF in those patients assigned 
to Enbrel treatment.  
Alcoholic hepatitis 
In a phase II randomised placebo-controlled study of 48 hospitalised patients treated with Enbrel or 
placebo for moderate to severe alcoholic hepatitis, Enbrel was not efficacious, and the mortality rate in 
patients treated with Enbrel was significantly higher after 6 months. Consequently, Enbrel should not 
be used in patients for the treatment of alcoholic hepatitis. Physicians should use caution when using 
Enbrel in patients who also have moderate to severe alcoholic hepatitis. 
Wegener's granulomatosis 
A placebo-controlled trial, in which 89 adult patients were treated with Enbrel in addition to standard 
therapy (including cyclophosphamide or methotrexate, and glucocorticoids) for a median duration of 
25 months, has not shown Enbrel to be an effective treatment for Wegener’s granulomatosis. The 
incidence of non-cutaneous malignancies of various types was significantly higher in patients treated 
with Enbrel than in the control group. Enbrel is not recommended for the treatment of Wegener’s 
granulomatosis. 
127 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypoglycaemia in patients treated for diabetes 
There have been reports of hypoglycaemia following initiation of Enbrel in patients receiving 
medication for diabetes, necessitating a reduction in anti-diabetic medication in some of these patients. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
In the Phase 3 studies in rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis, no overall 
differences in adverse events, serious adverse events, and serious infections in patients age 65 or older 
who received Enbrel were observed compared with younger patients. However, caution should be 
exercised when treating the elderly and particular attention paid with respect to occurrence of 
infections. 
Paediatric population 
Vaccinations  
It is recommended that paediatric patients, if possible, be brought up to date with all immunisations in 
agreement with current immunisation guidelines prior to initiating Enbrel therapy (see Vaccinations, 
above). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Concurrent treatment with anakinra  
Adult patients treated with Enbrel and anakinra were observed to have a higher rate of serious 
infection when compared with patients treated with either Enbrel or anakinra alone (historical data). 
In addition, in a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in adult patients receiving background 
methotrexate, patients treated with Enbrel and anakinra were observed to have a higher rate of serious 
infections (7%) and neutropenia than patients treated with Enbrel (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). The 
combination Enbrel and anakinra has not demonstrated increased clinical benefit, and is therefore not 
recommended. 
Concurrent treatment with abatacept  
In clinical studies, concurrent administration of abatacept and Enbrel resulted in increased incidences 
of serious adverse events. This combination has not demonstrated increased clinical benefit; such use 
is not recommended (see section 4.4).  
Concurrent treatment with sulfasalazine  
In a clinical study of adult patients who were receiving established doses of sulfasalazine, to which 
Enbrel was added, patients in the combination group experienced a statistically significant decrease in 
mean white blood cell counts in comparison to groups treated with Enbrel or sulfasalazine alone. The 
clinical significance of this interaction is unknown. Physicians should use caution when considering 
combination therapy with sulfasalazine. 
Non-interactions 
In clinical trials, no interactions have been observed when Enbrel was administered with 
glucocorticoids, salicylates (except sulfasalazine), nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), 
analgesics, or methotrexate. See section 4.4 for vaccination advice. 
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions were observed in studies with 
128 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
methotrexate, digoxin or warfarin. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should consider the use of appropriate contraception to avoid 
becoming pregnant during Enbrel therapy and for three weeks after discontinuation of therapy. 
Pregnancy  
Developmental toxicity studies performed in rats and rabbits have revealed no evidence of harm to the 
foetus or neonatal rat due to etanercept. The effects of etanercept on pregnancy outcomes have been 
investigated in two observational cohort studies. A higher rate of major birth defects was observed in 
one observational study comparing pregnancies exposed to etanercept (n=370) during the first 
trimester with pregnancies not exposed to etanercept or other TNF-antagonists (n=164) (adjusted odds 
ratio 2.4, 95% CI: 1.0-5.5). The types of major birth defects were consistent with those most 
commonly reported in the general population and no particular pattern of abnormalities was identified. 
No change in the rate of spontaneous abortion, stillbirth, or minor malformations was observed. In 
another observational multi-country registry study comparing the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes 
in women exposed to etanercept during the first 90 days of pregnancy (n=425) to those exposed to 
non-biologic drugs (n=3497), there was no observed increased risk of major birth defects (crude odds 
ratio [OR]= 1.22, 95% CI: 0.79-1.90; adjusted OR = 0.96, 95% CI: 0.58-1.60 after adjusting for 
country, maternal disease, parity, maternal age and smoking in early pregnancy). This study also 
showed no increased risks of minor birth defects, preterm birth, stillbirth, or infections in the first year 
of life for infants born to women exposed to etanercept during pregnancy. Enbrel should only be used 
during pregnancy if clearly needed. 
Etanercept crosses the placenta and has been detected in the serum of infants born to female patients 
treated with Enbrel during pregnancy. The clinical impact of this is unknown, however, infants may be 
at increased risk of infection. Administration of live vaccines to infants for 16 weeks after the 
mother’s last dose of Enbrel is generally not recommended. 
Breast-feeding 
In lactating rats following subcutaneous administration, etanercept was excreted in the milk and 
detected in the serum of pups. Limited information from the published literature indicates etanercept 
has been detected at low levels in human milk. Etanercept could be considered for use during 
breast-feeding taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy 
for the woman. 
While systemic exposure in a breastfed infant is expected to be low because etanercept is largely 
degraded in the gastrointestinal tract, limited data regarding systemic exposure in the breastfed infant 
are available. Therefore, the administration of live vaccines (e.g., BCG) to a breastfed infant when the 
mother is receiving etanercept could be considered 16 weeks after stopping breast-feeding (or at an 
earlier timepoint if the infant etanercept serum levels are undetectable).  
Fertility 
Preclinical data about peri- and postnatal toxicity of etanercept and of effects of etanercept on fertility 
and general reproductive performance are not available. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Enbrel has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
129 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Paediatric population 
Undesirable effects in paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
In general, the adverse events in paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis were similar in 
frequency and type to those seen in adult patients (see below, Undesirable effects in adults). 
Differences from adults and other special considerations are discussed in the following paragraphs. 
The types of infections seen in clinical trials in juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients aged 2 to 18 years 
were generally mild to moderate and consistent with those commonly seen in outpatient paediatric 
populations. Severe adverse events reported included varicella with signs and symptoms of aseptic 
meningitis, which resolved without sequelae (see also section 4.4), appendicitis, gastroenteritis, 
depression/personality disorder, cutaneous ulcer, oesophagitis/gastritis, group A streptococcal septic 
shock, type I diabetes mellitus, and soft tissue and post-operative wound infection. 
In one study in children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis aged 4 to 17 years, 43 of 69 (62%) children 
experienced an infection while receiving Enbrel during 3 months of the study (part 1, open-label), and 
the frequency and severity of infections was similar in 58 patients completing 12 months of open-label 
extension therapy. The types and proportion of adverse events in juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients 
were similar to those seen in trials of Enbrel in adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and the 
majority were mild. Several adverse events were reported more commonly in 69 juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis patients receiving 3 months of Enbrel compared to the 349 adult rheumatoid arthritis patients. 
These included headache (19% of patients, 1.7 events per patient year), nausea (9%, 1.0 event per 
patient year), abdominal pain (19%, 0.74 events per patient year), and vomiting (13%, 0.74 events per 
patient year). 
There were 4 reports of macrophage activation syndrome in juvenile idiopathic arthritis clinical trials. 
Undesirable effects in paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
In a 48-week study in 211 children aged 4 to 17 years with paediatric plaque psoriasis, the adverse 
events reported were similar to those seen in previous studies in adults with plaque psoriasis. 
Adult population 
Undesirable effects in adults 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are injection site reactions (such as pain, swelling, 
itching, reddening and bleeding at the puncture site), infections (such as upper respiratory infections, 
bronchitis, bladder infections and skin infections), headache, allergic reactions, development of 
autoantibodies, itching, and fever. 
Serious adverse reactions have also been reported for Enbrel. TNF-antagonists, such as Enbrel, affect 
the immune system and their use may affect the body’s defenses against infection and cancer. Serious 
infections affect fewer than 1 in 100 patients treated with Enbrel. Reports have included fatal and 
life-threatening infections and sepsis. Various malignancies have also been reported with use of 
Enbrel, including cancers of the breast, lung, skin and lymph glands (lymphoma).   
Serious haematological, neurological and autoimmune reactions have also been reported. These 
include rare reports of pancytopenia and very rare reports of aplastic anaemia. Central and peripheral 
demyelinating events have been seen rarely and very rarely, respectively, with Enbrel use. There have 
been rare reports of lupus, lupus-related conditions, and vasculitis. 
130 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following list of adverse reactions is based on experience from clinical trials and on 
postmarketing experience. 
Within the organ system classes, adverse reactions are listed under headings of frequency (number of 
patients expected to experience the reaction), using the following categories: very common (≥ 1/10); 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very 
rare (< 1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
System Organ 
Class 
Very 
Common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000 
Very Rare 
< 1/10,000 
Infection 
(including 
upper 
respiratory 
tract 
infection, 
bronchitis, 
cystitis, 
skin 
infection)* 
Infections and 
infestations 
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified 
(including 
cysts and 
polyps) 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders 
Immune 
system 
disorders 
Serious infections 
(including 
pneumonia, 
cellulitis, arthritis 
bacterial, sepsis and 
parasitic infection)* 
Non-melanoma skin 
cancers* (see 
section 4.4) 
Thrombocytopenia, 
anaemia, 
leukopenia, 
neutropenia 
Vasculitis 
(including anti-
neutrophilic 
cytoplasmic antibody 
positive vasculitis) 
Tuberculosis, 
opportunistic 
infection 
(including 
invasive fungal, 
protozoal, 
bacterial, 
atypical 
mycobacterial, 
viral infections, 
and Legionella)* 
Malignant 
melanoma (see 
section 4.4), 
lymphoma, 
leukaemia  
Pancytopenia* 
Aplastic 
anaemia* 
Serious 
allergic/anaphyla
ctic reactions 
(including 
angioedema, 
bronchospasm), 
sarcoidosis 
Allergic 
reactions (see 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue 
disorders), 
autoantibody 
formation* 
Not Known 
(Cannot be 
Estimated from 
Available Data) 
Hepatitis B 
reactivation, listeria 
Merkel cell 
carcinoma (see 
section 4.4), 
Kaposi’s sarcoma 
Histiocytosis 
haematophagic 
(macrophage 
activation 
syndrome)† 
Worsening of 
symptoms of 
dermatomyositis 
131 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ 
Class 
Nervous 
system 
disorders  
Very 
Common 
≥ 1/10 
Headache 
Common 
≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000 
Very Rare 
< 1/10,000 
Not Known 
(Cannot be 
Estimated from 
Available Data) 
CNS 
demyelinating 
events 
suggestive of 
multiple 
sclerosis or 
localised 
demyelinating 
conditions, such 
as optic neuritis 
and transverse 
myelitis (see 
section 4.4), 
peripheral 
demyelinating 
events, including 
Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, 
chronic 
inflammatory 
demyelinating 
polyneuropathy, 
demyelinating 
polyneuropathy, 
and multifocal 
motor 
neuropathy (see 
section 4.4), 
seizure 
New onset 
cardiac failure 
congestive (see 
section 4.4) 
Interstitial lung 
disease 
(including 
pneumonitis and 
pulmonary 
fibrosis)* 
Autoimmune 
hepatitis* 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, 
cutaneous 
vasculitis 
(including 
hypersensitivity 
vasculitis), 
erythema 
multiforme, 
lichenoid 
reactions  
Cutaneous lupus 
erythematosus, 
subacute 
cutaneous lupus 
erythematosus, 
lupus-like 
syndrome 
Toxic 
epidermal 
necrolysis 
Eye disorders  
Cardiac 
disorders  
Respiratory, 
thoracic, and 
mediastinal 
disorders  
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders  
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders  
Musculoskeleta
l and 
connective 
tissue disorders  
Uveitis, scleritis 
Worsening of 
cardiac failure 
congestive (see 
section 4.4) 
Inflammatory bowel 
disease 
Elevated liver 
enzymes* 
Pruritus, rash  Angioedema, 
psoriasis (including 
new onset or 
worsening and 
pustular, primarily 
palms and soles), 
urticaria, 
psoriasiform rash 
132 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ 
Class 
Very 
Common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000 
Very Rare 
< 1/10,000 
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions  
Pyrexia 
Injection 
site 
reactions 
(including 
bleeding, 
bruising, 
erythema, 
itching, 
pain, 
swelling)* 
Not Known 
(Cannot be 
Estimated from 
Available Data) 
Glomerulonephritis 
*see Description of selected adverse reactions, below. 
†Please see sub-section ‘Undesirable effects in paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis’ above. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
One hundred and twenty-nine (129) new malignancies of various types were observed in 4,114 
rheumatoid arthritis patients treated in clinical trials with Enbrel for up to approximately 6 years, 
including 231 patients treated with Enbrel in combination with methotrexate in the 2-year 
active-controlled study. The observed rates and incidences in these clinical trials were similar to those 
expected for the population studied. A total of 2 malignancies were reported in clinical studies of 
approximately 2 years duration involving 240 Enbrel-treated psoriatic arthritis patients. In clinical 
studies conducted for more than 2 years with 351 ankylosing spondylitis patients, 6 malignancies were 
reported in Enbrel-treated patients. In a group of 2,711 plaque psoriasis patients treated with Enbrel in 
double-blind and open-label studies of up to 2.5 years, 30 malignancies and 43 nonmelanoma skin 
cancers were reported. 
In a group of 7,416 patients treated with Enbrel in rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing 
spondylitis and psoriasis clinical trials, 18 lymphomas were reported. 
Reports of various malignancies (including breast and lung carcinoma and lymphoma) have also been 
received in the postmarketing period (see section 4.4). 
Injection site reactions 
Compared to placebo, patients with rheumatic diseases treated with Enbrel had a significantly higher 
incidence of injection site reactions (36% vs. 9%). Injection site reactions usually occurred in the first 
month. Mean duration was approximately 3 to 5 days. No treatment was given for the majority of 
injection site reactions in the Enbrel treatment groups, and the majority of patients who were given 
treatment received topical preparations, such as corticosteroids, or oral antihistamines. Additionally, 
some patients developed recall injection site reactions characterised by a skin reaction at the most 
recent site of injection, along with the simultaneous appearance of injection site reactions at previous 
injection sites. These reactions were generally transient and did not recur with treatment. 
In controlled trials in patients with plaque psoriasis, approximately 13.6% of patients treated with 
Enbrel developed injection site reactions compared with 3.4% of placebo-treated patients during the 
first 12 weeks of treatment. 
Serious infections 
In placebo-controlled trials, no increase in the incidence of serious infections (fatal, life-threatening, or 
requiring hospitalisation or intravenous antibiotics) was observed. Serious infections occurred in 6.3% 
of rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with Enbrel for up to 48 months. These included abscess (at 
various sites), bacteraemia, bronchitis, bursitis, cellulitis, cholecystitis, diarrhoea, diverticulitis, 
133 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
endocarditis (suspected), gastroenteritis, hepatitis B, herpes zoster, leg ulcer, mouth infection, 
osteomyelitis, otitis, peritonitis, pneumonia, pyelonephritis, sepsis, septic arthritis, sinusitis, skin 
infection, skin ulcer, urinary tract infection, vasculitis, and wound infection. In the 2-year 
active-controlled study where patients were treated with either Enbrel alone, methotrexate alone or 
Enbrel in combination with methotrexate, the rates of serious infections were similar among the 
treatment groups. However, it cannot be excluded that the combination of Enbrel with methotrexate 
could be associated with an increase in the rate of infections. 
There were no differences in rates of infection among patients treated with Enbrel and those treated 
with placebo for plaque psoriasis in placebo-controlled trials of up to 24 weeks duration. Serious 
infections experienced by Enbrel-treated patients included cellulitis, gastroenteritis, pneumonia, 
cholecystitis, osteomyelitis, gastritis, appendicitis, Streptococcal fasciitis, myositis, septic shock, 
diverticulitis and abscess. In the double-blind and open-label psoriatic arthritis trials, 1 patient reported 
a serious infection (pneumonia). 
Serious and fatal infections have been reported during use of Enbrel; reported pathogens include 
bacteria, mycobacteria (including tuberculosis), viruses and fungi. Some have occurred within a few 
weeks after initiating treatment with Enbrel in patients who have underlying conditions (e.g., diabetes, 
congestive heart failure, history of active or chronic infections) in addition to their rheumatoid arthritis 
(see section 4.4). Enbrel treatment may increase mortality in patients with established sepsis. 
Opportunistic infections have been reported in association with Enbrel, including invasive fungal, 
parasitic (including protozoal), viral (including herpes zoster), bacterial (including Listeria and 
Legionella), and atypical mycobacterial infections. In a pooled data set of clinical trials, the overall 
incidence of opportunistic infections was 0.09% for the 15,402 subjects who received Enbrel. The 
exposure-adjusted rate was 0.06 events per 100 patient-years. In postmarketing experience, 
approximately half of all of the case reports of opportunistic infections worldwide were invasive 
fungal infections. The most commonly reported invasive fungal infections included Candida, 
Pneumocystis, Aspergillus, and Histoplasma. Invasive fungal infections accounted for more than half 
of the fatalities amongst patients who developed opportunistic infections. The majority of the reports 
with a fatal outcome were in patients with Pneumocystis pneumonia, unspecified systemic fungal 
infections, and aspergillosis (see section 4.4). 
Autoantibodies 
Adult patients had serum samples tested for autoantibodies at multiple timepoints. Of the rheumatoid 
arthritis patients evaluated for antinuclear antibodies (ANA), the percentage of patients who developed 
new positive ANA (≥ 1:40) was higher in patients treated with Enbrel (11%) than in placebo-treated 
patients (5%). The percentage of patients who developed new positive anti-double-stranded DNA 
antibodies was also higher by radioimmunoassay (15% of patients treated with Enbrel compared to 4% 
of placebo-treated patients) and by Crithidia luciliae assay (3% of patients treated with Enbrel 
compared to none of placebo-treated patients). The proportion of patients treated with Enbrel who 
developed anticardiolipin antibodies was similarly increased compared to placebo-treated patients. 
The impact of long-term treatment with Enbrel on the development of autoimmune diseases is 
unknown. 
There have been rare reports of patients, including rheumatoid factor positive patients, who have 
developed other autoantibodies in conjunction with a lupus-like syndrome or rashes that are 
compatible with subacute cutaneous lupus or discoid lupus by clinical presentation and biopsy. 
Pancytopenia and aplastic anaemia 
There have been postmarketing reports of pancytopenia and aplastic anaemia, some of which had fatal 
outcomes (see section 4.4). 
Interstitial lung disease 
In controlled clinical trials of etanercept across all indications, the frequency (incidence proportion) of 
interstitial lung disease in patients receiving etanercept without concomitant methotrexate was 0.06% 
134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(frequency rare). In the controlled clinical trials that allowed concomitant treatment with etanercept 
and methotrexate, the frequency (incidence proportion) of interstitial lung disease was 0.47% 
(frequency uncommon). There have been postmarketing reports of interstitial lung disease (including 
pneumonitis and pulmonary fibrosis), some of which had fatal outcomes. 
Concurrent treatment with anakinra  
In studies when adult patients received concurrent treatment with Enbrel plus anakinra, a higher rate of 
serious infections compared to Enbrel alone was observed and 2% of patients (3/139) developed 
neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count < 1000/mm3). While neutropenic, one patient developed 
cellulitis that resolved after hospitalisation (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Elevated liver enzymes 
In the double-blind periods of controlled clinical trials of etanercept across all indications, the 
frequency (incidence proportion) of adverse events of elevated liver enzymes in patients receiving 
etanercept without concomitant methotrexate was 0.54% (frequency uncommon). In the double-blind 
periods of controlled clinical trials that allowed concomitant treatment with etanercept and 
methotrexate, the frequency (incidence proportion) of adverse events of elevated liver enzymes was 
4.18% (frequency common). 
Autoimmune hepatitis 
In controlled clinical trials of etanercept across all indications, the frequency (incidence proportion) of 
autoimmune hepatitis in patients receiving etanercept without concomitant methotrexate was 0.02% 
(frequency rare). In the controlled clinical trials that allowed concomitant treatment with etanercept 
and methotrexate, the frequency (incidence proportion) of autoimmune hepatitis was 0.24% 
(frequency uncommon). 
Paediatric population 
See Summary of the safety profile, above. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No dose-limiting toxicities were observed during clinical trials of rheumatoid arthritis patients. The 
highest dose level evaluated has been an intravenous loading dose of 32 mg/m2 followed by 
subcutaneous doses of 16 mg/m2 administered twice weekly. One rheumatoid arthritis patient 
mistakenly self-administered 62 mg Enbrel subcutaneously twice weekly for 3 weeks without 
experiencing undesirable effects. There is no known antidote to Enbrel. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF-α) inhibitors, 
ATC code: L04AB01 
Tumour necrosis factor (TNF) is a dominant cytokine in the inflammatory process of rheumatoid 
arthritis. Elevated levels of TNF are also found in the synovium and psoriatic plaques of patients with 
psoriatic arthritis and in serum and synovial tissue of patients with ankylosing spondylitis. In plaque 
135 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
psoriasis, infiltration by inflammatory cells, including T-cells, leads to increased TNF levels in 
psoriatic lesions compared with levels in uninvolved skin. Etanercept is a competitive inhibitor of 
TNF binding to its cell surface receptors, and thereby inhibits the biological activity of TNF. TNF and 
lymphotoxin are pro-inflammatory cytokines that bind to two distinct cell surface receptors: the 
55-kilodalton (p55) and 75-kilodalton (p75) tumour necrosis factor receptors (TNFRs). Both TNFRs 
exist naturally in membrane-bound and soluble forms. Soluble TNFRs are thought to regulate TNF 
biological activity. 
TNF and lymphotoxin exist predominantly as homotrimers, with their biological activity dependent on 
cross-linking of cell surface TNFRs. Dimeric soluble receptors, such as etanercept, possess a higher 
affinity for TNF than monomeric receptors and are considerably more potent competitive inhibitors of 
TNF binding to its cellular receptors. In addition, use of an immunoglobulin Fc region as a fusion 
element in the construction of a dimeric receptor imparts a longer serum half-life. 
Mechanism of action 
Much of the joint pathology in rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis and skin pathology in 
plaque psoriasis is mediated by pro-inflammatory molecules that are linked in a network controlled by 
TNF. The mechanism of action of etanercept is thought to be its competitive inhibition of TNF 
binding to cell surface TNFR, preventing TNF-mediated cellular responses by rendering TNF 
biologically inactive. Etanercept may also modulate biologic responses controlled by additional 
downstream molecules (e.g., cytokines, adhesion molecules, or proteinases) that are induced or 
regulated by TNF. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
This section presents data from three studies in juvenile idiopathic arthritis, one study in paediatric 
patients with plaque psoriasis, four studies in adults with rheumatoid arthritis, and four studies in 
adults with plaque psoriasis. 
Paediatric population 
Paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
The safety and efficacy of Enbrel were assessed in a two-part study in 69 children with 
polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis who had a variety of juvenile idiopathic arthritis onset 
types (polyarthritis, pauciarthritis, systemic onset). Patients aged 4 to 17 years with moderately to 
severely active polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis refractory to, or intolerant of, 
methotrexate were enrolled; patients remained on a stable dose of a single nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drug and/or prednisone (< 0.2 mg/kg/day or 10 mg maximum). In part 1, all patients 
received 0.4 mg/kg (maximum 25 mg per dose) Enbrel subcutaneously twice weekly. In part 2, 
patients with a clinical response at day 90 were randomised to remain on Enbrel or receive placebo for 
four months and assessed for disease flare. Responses were measured using the ACR Pedi 30, defined 
as ≥ 30% improvement in at least three of six and ≥ 30% worsening in no more than one of six JRA 
core set criteria, including active joint count, limitation of motion, physician and patient/parent global 
assessments, functional assessment, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR). Disease flare was 
defined as a ≥ 30% worsening in three of six JRA core set criteria and ≥ 30% improvement in not 
more than one of the six JRA core set criteria and a minimum of two active joints. 
In part 1 of the study, 51 of 69 (74%) patients demonstrated a clinical response and entered part 2. In 
part 2, 6 of 25 (24%) patients remaining on Enbrel experienced a disease flare compared to 20 of 
26 (77%) patients receiving placebo (p=0.007). From the start of part 2, the median time to flare was 
≥ 116 days for patients who received Enbrel and 28 days for patients who received placebo. Of 
patients who demonstrated a clinical response at 90 days and entered part 2 of the study, some of the 
patients remaining on Enbrel continued to improve from month 3 through month 7, while those who 
received placebo did not improve. 
136 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In an open-label, safety extension study, 58 paediatric patients from the above study (from the age of 
4 years at time of enrolment) continued to receive Enbrel for up to 10 years. Rates of serious adverse 
events and serious infections did not increase with long-term exposure. 
Long-term safety of Enbrel monotherapy (n=103), Enbrel plus methotrexate (n=294), or methotrexate 
monotherapy (n=197) were assessed for up to 3 years in a registry of 594 children aged 2 to 18 years 
with juvenile idiopathic arthritis, 39 of whom were 2 to 3 years of age. Overall, infections were more 
commonly reported in patients treated with etanercept compared to methotrexate alone (3.8 versus 
2%), and the infections associated with etanercept use were of a more severe nature. 
In another open-label single-arm study (n=127), 60 patients with extended oligoarthritis (EO) 
(15 patients aged 2 to 4, 23 patients aged 5 to 11 and 22 patients aged 12 to 17 years old), 38 patients 
with enthesitis-related arthritis (12 to 17 years old), and 29 patients with psoriatic arthritis (12 to 
17 years old) were treated with Enbrel at a dose of 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 50 mg per dose) 
administered weekly for 12 weeks. In each of the JIA subtypes, the majority of patients met ACR Pedi 
30 criteria and demonstrated clinical improvement in secondary endpoints such as number of tender 
joints and physician global assessment. The safety profile was consistent with that observed in other 
JIA studies.  
Of the 127 patients in the parent study, 109 participated in the open-label extension study and were 
followed for an additional 8 years for a total of up to 10 years. At the end of the extension study, 
84/109 (77%) patients had completed the study; 27 (25%) while actively taking Enbrel, 7 (6%) had 
withdrawn from treatment due to low/inactive disease; 5 (5%) had re-started Enbrel following an 
earlier withdrawal from treatment; and 45 (41%) had stopped Enbrel (but remained under 
observation); 25/109 (23%) patients permanently discontinued from the study. Improvements in 
clinical status achieved in the parent study were generally maintained for all efficacy endpoints during 
the entire follow-up period. Patients actively taking Enbrel could enter an optional withdrawal-
retreatment period once during the extension study based on investigator’s judgement of clinical 
response. 30 patients entered the withdrawal period. 17 patients were reported to have a flare (defined 
as ≥ 30% worsening in at least 3 of the 6 ACR Pedi components with ≥ 30% improvement in not more 
than 1 of the remaining 6 components and a minimum of 2 active joints); median time to flare after 
Enbrel withdrawal was 190 days. 13 patients were re-treated and the median time to re-treatment from 
withdrawal was estimated as 274 days. Due to the small number of data points, these results should be 
interpreted with caution. 
The safety profile was consistent with that observed in the parent study. 
Studies have not been done in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis to assess the effects of 
continued Enbrel therapy in patients who do not respond within 3 months of initiating Enbrel therapy. 
Additionally, studies have not been conducted to assess the effects of reducing the recommended dose 
of Enbrel following its long-term use in patients with JIA. 
Paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
The efficacy of Enbrel was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in 211 
paediatric patients aged 4 to 17 years with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis (as defined by an sPGA 
score ≥ 3, involving ≥ 10% of the BSA, and PASI ≥ 12). Eligible patients had a history of receiving 
phototherapy or systemic therapy, or were inadequately controlled on topical therapy. 
Patients received Enbrel 0.8 mg/kg (up to 50 mg) or placebo once weekly for 12 weeks. At week 12, 
more patients randomised to Enbrel had positive efficacy responses (e.g., PASI 75) than those 
randomised to placebo. 
137 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric Plaque Psoriasis Outcomes at 12 Weeks 
Enbrel 
0.8 mg/kg Once 
Weekly 
(N = 106) 
60 (57%)a 
79 (75%)a 
PASI 75, n (%) 
PASI 50, n (%) 
sPGA “clear” or “minimal”, n (%) 
Abbreviation: sPGA-static Physician Global Assessment 
a.  p < 0.0001 compared with placebo 
56 (53%)a 
Placebo 
(N = 105) 
12 (11%) 
24 (23%) 
14 (13%) 
After the 12-week double-blind treatment period, all patients received Enbrel 0.8 mg/kg (up to 50 mg) 
once weekly for additional 24 weeks. Responses observed during the open-label period were similar to 
those observed in the double-blind period. 
During a randomised withdrawal period, significantly more patients re-randomised to placebo 
experienced disease relapse (loss of PASI 75 response) compared with patients re-randomised to 
Enbrel. With continued therapy, responses were maintained up to 48 weeks.  
The long-term safety and effectiveness of Enbrel 0.8 mg/kg (up to 50 mg) once weekly was assessed in 
an open-label extension study of 181 paediatric subjects with plaque psoriasis for up to 2 years beyond 
the 48 week study discussed above. Long-term experience with Enbrel was generally comparable to the 
original 48-week study and did not reveal any new safety findings.  
Adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis 
The efficacy of Enbrel was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The 
study evaluated 234 adult patients with active rheumatoid arthritis who had failed therapy with at least 
one but no more than four disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Doses of 10 mg or 
25 mg Enbrel or placebo were administered subcutaneously twice a week for 6 consecutive months. 
The results of this controlled trial were expressed in percentage improvement in rheumatoid arthritis 
using American College of Rheumatology (ACR) response criteria. 
ACR 20 and 50 responses were higher in patients treated with Enbrel at 3 and 6 months than in 
patients treated with placebo (ACR 20: Enbrel 62% and 59%, placebo 23% and 11% at 3 and 
6 months, respectively: ACR 50: Enbrel 41% and 40%, placebo 8% and 5% at months 3 and 6, 
respectively; p<0.01 Enbrel vs. placebo at all timepoints for both ACR 20 and ACR 50 responses).  
Approximately 15% of subjects who received Enbrel achieved an ACR 70 response at month 3 and 
month 6 compared to fewer than 5% of subjects in the placebo arm. Among patients receiving Enbrel, 
the clinical responses generally appeared within 1 to 2 weeks after initiation of therapy and nearly 
always occurred by 3 months. A dose response was seen; results with 10 mg were intermediate 
between placebo and 25 mg. Enbrel was significantly better than placebo in all components of the 
ACR criteria, as well as other measures of rheumatoid arthritis disease activity not included in the 
ACR response criteria, such as morning stiffness. A Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), which 
included disability, vitality, mental health, general health status, and arthritis-associated health status 
subdomains, was administered every 3 months during the trial. All subdomains of the HAQ were 
improved in patients treated with Enbrel compared to controls at 3 and 6 months.  
After discontinuation of Enbrel, symptoms of arthritis generally returned within a month. 
Re-introduction of treatment with Enbrel after discontinuation of up to 24 months resulted in the same 
magnitudes of responses as patients who received Enbrel without interruption of therapy based on 
results of open-label studies. Continued durable responses have been seen for up to 10 years in 
open-label extension treatment trials when patients received Enbrel without interruption.  
138 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The efficacy of Enbrel was compared to methotrexate in a randomised, active-controlled study with 
blinded radiographic evaluations as a primary endpoint in 632 adult patients with active rheumatoid 
arthritis (< 3 years duration) who had never received treatment with methotrexate. Doses of 10 mg or 
25 mg Enbrel were administered subcutaneously (SC) twice a week for up to 24 months. Methotrexate 
doses were escalated from 7.5 mg/week to a maximum of 20 mg/week over the first 8 weeks of the 
trial and continued for up to 24 months. Clinical improvement, including onset of action within 
2 weeks with Enbrel 25 mg, was similar to that seen in the previous trials and was maintained for up to 
24 months. At baseline, patients had a moderate degree of disability, with mean HAQ scores of 1.4 to 
1.5. Treatment with Enbrel 25 mg resulted in substantial improvement at 12 months, with about 44% 
of patients achieving a normal HAQ score (less than 0.5). This benefit was maintained in Year 2 of 
this study. 
In this study, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in Total 
Sharp Score (TSS) and its components, the erosion score and Joint Space Narrowing (JSN) score. 
Radiographs of hands/wrists and feet were read at baseline and 6, 12, and 24 months. The 10 mg 
Enbrel dose had consistently less effect on structural damage than the 25 mg dose. Enbrel 25 mg was 
significantly superior to methotrexate for erosion scores at both 12 and 24 months. The differences in 
TSS and JSN were not statistically significant between methotrexate and Enbrel 25 mg. The results are 
shown in the figure below. 
Radiographic Progression: Comparison of Enbrel vs. Methotrexate in Patients with RA of 
< 3 Years Duration 
12 Months
1.3
0.9
0.8
0.4*
0.4 0.4
e
n
i
l
e
s
a
B
m
o
r
f
e
g
n
a
h
C
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
24 Months
2.2
1.3
1.2
0.9
0.6*
0.6
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
TSS Erosions
JSN
TSS
Erosions
JSN
MTX
Enbrel 25 mg
*p < 0.05
In another active-controlled, double-blind, randomised study, clinical efficacy, safety, and 
radiographic progression in RA patients treated with Enbrel alone (25 mg twice weekly), methotrexate 
alone (7.5 to 20 mg weekly, median dose 20 mg), and the combination of Enbrel and methotrexate 
initiated concurrently were compared in 682 adult patients with active rheumatoid arthritis of 6 months 
to 20 years duration (median 5 years) who had a less than satisfactory response to at least 1 disease-
modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) other than methotrexate. 
Patients in the Enbrel in combination with methotrexate therapy group had significantly higher 
ACR 20, ACR 50, ACR 70 responses and improvement for DAS and HAQ scores at both 24 and 
52 weeks than patients in either of the single therapy groups (results shown in table below). 
Significant advantages for Enbrel in combination with methotrexate compared with Enbrel 
monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy were also observed after 24 months. 
139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical Efficacy Results at 12 Months: Comparison of Enbrel vs. Methotrexate vs. 
Enbrel in Combination with Methotrexate in Patients with RA of 6 Months To 
20 Years Duration 
Endpoint 
Methotrexate 
(n = 228) 
Enbrel 
(n = 223) 
ACR Responsesa  
ACR 20 
ACR 50 
ACR 70 
DAS 
Baseline 
scoreb 
Week 52 
scoreb 
Remissionc 
HAQ 
58.8% 
36.4% 
16.7% 
5.5 
3.0 
14% 
65.5% 
43.0% 
22.0% 
5.7 
3.0 
18% 
Enbrel + 
Methotrexate 
(n = 231) 
74.5% †,φ 
63.2% †,φ 
39.8% †,φ 
5.5 
2.3†,φ 
37%†,φ 
1.7 
1.1 
1.7 
1.0 
Baseline 
Week 52 
a: Patients who did not complete 12 months in the study were considered to be non-
responders. 
b: Values for Disease Activity Score (DAS) are means. 
c: Remission is defined as DAS <1.6. 
Pairwise comparison p-values: † = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs. 
methotrexate and φ = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs. Enbrel. 
1.8 
0.8†,φ 
Radiographic progression at 12 months was significantly less in the Enbrel group than in the 
methotrexate group, while the combination was significantly better than either monotherapy at 
slowing radiographic progression (see figure below). 
Radiographic Progression: Comparison of Enbrel vs. Methotrexate vs. Enbrel in Combination 
with Methotrexate in Patients with RA of 6 Months To 20 Years Duration (12 Month Results) 
e
n
i
l
e
s
a
B
m
o
r
f
e
g
n
a
h
C
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
-0.5
-1.0
2.80
Methotrexate
Enbrel 
Enbrel + Methotrexate
1.68
1.12
0.52*
0.21*
0.32
-0.30†
-0.23†,φ
-0.54†,φ
TSS
Erosions
JSN
140 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pairwise comparison p-values: * = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel vs. 
methotrexate, † = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs. 
methotrexate and φ = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs. 
Enbrel. 
Significant advantages for Enbrel in combination with methotrexate compared with Enbrel 
monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy were also observed after 24 months. Similarly, the 
significant advantages for Enbrel monotherapy compared with methotrexate monotherapy were also 
observed after 24 months. 
In an analysis in which all patients who dropped out of the study for any reason were considered to 
have progressed, the percentage of patients without progression (TSS change ≤ 0.5) at 24 months was 
higher in the Enbrel in combination with methotrexate group compared with the Enbrel alone and 
methotrexate alone groups (62%, 50%, and 36%, respectively; p<0.05). The difference between 
Enbrel alone and methotrexate alone was also significant (p<0.05). Among patients who completed a 
full 24 months of therapy in the study, the non-progression rates were 78%, 70%, and 61%, 
respectively. 
The safety and efficacy of 50 mg Enbrel (two 25 mg SC injections) administered once weekly were 
evaluated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 420 patients with active RA. In this study, 53 
patients received placebo, 214 patients received 50 mg Enbrel once weekly and 153 patients received 
25 mg Enbrel twice weekly. The safety and efficacy profiles of the two Enbrel treatment regimens 
were comparable at week 8 in their effect on signs and symptoms of RA; data at week 16 did not show 
comparability (non-inferiority) between the two regimens. 
Adult patients with plaque psoriasis 
Enbrel is recommended for use in patients as defined in section 4.1. Patients who “failed to respond 
to” in the target population is defined by insufficient response (PASI<50 or PGA less than good), or 
worsening of the disease while on treatment, and who were adequately dosed for a sufficiently long 
duration to assess response with at least one of the three major systemic therapies as available. 
The efficacy of Enbrel versus other systemic therapies in patients with moderate to severe psoriasis 
(responsive to other systemic therapies) has not been evaluated in studies directly comparing Enbrel 
with other systemic therapies. Instead, the safety and efficacy of Enbrel were assessed in four 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. The primary efficacy endpoint in all four studies 
was the proportion of patients in each treatment group who achieved the PASI 75 (i.e., at least a 75% 
improvement in the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index score from baseline) at 12 weeks. 
Study 1 was a Phase 2 study in patients with active, but clinically stable, plaque psoriasis involving 
≥ 10% of the body surface area who were ≥ 18 years old. One hundred and twelve (112) patients were 
randomised to receive a dose of 25 mg of Enbrel (n=57) or placebo (n=55) twice a week for 24 weeks. 
Study 2 evaluated 652 patients with chronic plaque psoriasis using the same inclusion criteria as study 
1 with the addition of a minimum psoriasis area and severity index (PASI) of 10 at screening. Enbrel 
was administered at doses of 25 mg once a week, 25 mg twice a week or 50 mg twice a week for 
6 consecutive months. During the first 12 weeks of the double-blind treatment period, patients 
received placebo or one of the above three Enbrel doses. After 12 weeks of treatment, patients in the 
placebo group began treatment with blinded Enbrel (25 mg twice a week); patients in the active 
treatment groups continued to week 24 on the dose to which they were originally randomised. 
Study 3 evaluated 583 patients and had the same inclusion criteria as study 2. Patients in this study 
received a dose of 25 mg or 50 mg Enbrel, or placebo twice a week for 12 weeks and then all patients 
received open-label 25 mg Enbrel twice weekly for an additional 24 weeks. 
141 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 4 evaluated 142 patients and had similar inclusion criteria to studies 2 and 3. Patients in this 
study received a dose of 50 mg Enbrel or placebo once weekly for 12 weeks and then all patients 
received open-label 50 mg Enbrel once weekly for an additional 12 weeks. 
In study 1, the Enbrel-treated group had a significantly higher proportion of patients with a PASI 75 
response at week 12 (30%) compared to the placebo-treated group (2%) (p<0.0001). At 24 weeks, 
56% of patients in the Enbrel-treated group had achieved the PASI 75 compared to 5% of 
placebo-treated patients. Key results of studies 2, 3 and 4 are shown below. 
Responses of Patients with Psoriasis in Studies 2, 3 and 4 
Study 3 
--------Enbrel------- 
50 mg 
25 mg 
BIW 
BIW 
n = 196 
n = 196 
wk 12 
wk 12 
Placebo 
n = 46 
wk 12 
Study 4 
-------Enbrel------ 
50 mg 
50 mg 
QW 
QW 
n = 90 
n = 96 
wk 24a 
wk 12 
Placebo 
n = 193 
wk 12 
Placebo 
n = 166 
wk 12 
Study 2 
----------Enbrel--------- 
50 mg  
BIW 
25 mg  
BIW 
n = 
162 
wk 
12 
58* 
34* 
n = 
162 
wk 
24a 
70 
44 
n = 
164 
wk 
12 
74* 
49* 
n = 
164 
wk 
24a 
77 
59 
9 
3 
14 
4 
Respons
e (%) 
PASI 50 
PASI 75 
DSGA b, 
clear or 
almost 
clear 
*p ≤ 0.0001 compared with placebo 
a. No statistical comparisons to placebo were made at week 24 in studies 2 and 4 because the original 
placebo group began receiving Enbrel 25 mg BIW or 50 mg once weekly from week 13 to week 24. 
b. Dermatologist Static Global Assessment. Clear or almost clear defined as 0 or 1 on a 0 to 5 scale. 
69* 
38* 
77* 
49* 
64* 
34* 
39* 
57* 
39* 
49* 
34* 
9 
2 
55 
39 
5 
4 
4 
83 
71 
64 
Among patients with plaque psoriasis who received Enbrel, significant responses relative to placebo 
were apparent at the time of the first visit (2 weeks) and were maintained through 24 weeks of therapy. 
Study 2 also had a drug withdrawal period during which patients who achieved a PASI improvement 
of at least 50% at week 24 had treatment stopped. Patients were observed off treatment for the 
occurrence of rebound (PASI ≥150% of baseline) and for the time to relapse (defined as a loss of at 
least half of the improvement achieved between baseline and week 24). During the withdrawal period, 
symptoms of psoriasis gradually returned, with a median time to disease relapse of 3 months. No 
rebound flare of disease and no psoriasis-related serious adverse events were observed. There was 
some evidence to support a benefit of re-treatment with Enbrel in patients initially responding to 
treatment. 
In study 3, the majority of patients (77%) who were initially randomised to 50 mg twice weekly and 
had their Enbrel dose decreased at week 12 to 25 mg twice weekly maintained their PASI 75 response 
through week 36. For patients who received 25 mg twice weekly throughout the study, the PASI 75 
response continued to improve between weeks 12 and 36. 
In study 4, the Enbrel-treated group had a higher proportion of patients with PASI 75 at week 12 
(38%) compared to the placebo-treated group (2%) (p<0.0001). For patients who received 50 mg once 
weekly throughout the study, the efficacy responses continued to improve with 71% achieving PASI 
75 at week 24. 
In long-term (up to 34 months) open-label studies where Enbrel was given without interruption, 
clinical responses were sustained and safety was comparable to shorter-term studies. 
142 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An analysis of clinical trial data did not reveal any baseline disease characteristics that would assist 
clinicians in selecting the most appropriate dosing option (intermittent or continuous). Consequently, 
the choice of intermittent or continuous therapy should be based upon physician judgment and 
individual patient needs. 
Antibodies to Enbrel 
Antibodies to etanercept have been detected in the sera of some subjects treated with etanercept. 
These antibodies have all been non-neutralising and are generally transient. There appears to be no 
correlation between antibody development and clinical response or adverse events. 
In subjects treated with approved doses of etanercept in clinical trials for up to 12 months, cumulative 
rates of anti-etanercept antibodies were approximately 6% of subjects with rheumatoid arthritis, 7.5% 
of subjects with psoriatic arthritis, 2% of subjects with ankylosing spondylitis, 7% of subjects with 
psoriasis, 9.7% of subjects with paediatric psoriasis, and 4.8% of subjects with juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis.  
The proportion of subjects who developed antibodies to etanercept in longer-term trials (of up to 
3.5 years) increases over time, as expected. However, due to their transient nature, the incidence of 
antibodies detected at each assessment point was typically less than 7% in rheumatoid arthritis 
subjects and psoriasis subjects. 
In a long-term psoriasis study in which patients received 50 mg twice weekly for 96 weeks, the 
incidence of antibodies observed at each assessment point was up to approximately 9%. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Etanercept serum values were determined by an Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) 
method, which may detect ELISA-reactive degradation products as well as the parent compound. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Although there is elimination of radioactivity in urine after administration of radiolabelled etanercept 
to patients and volunteers, increased etanercept concentrations were not observed in patients with 
acute renal failure. The presence of renal impairment should not require a change in dosage. 
Hepatic impairment 
Increased etanercept concentrations were not observed in patients with acute hepatic failure. The 
presence of hepatic impairment should not require a change in dosage. 
Paediatric population 
Paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
In a polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis trial with Enbrel, 69 patients (aged 4 to 17 years) 
were administered 0.4 mg Enbrel/kg twice weekly for three months. Serum concentration profiles 
were similar to those seen in adult rheumatoid arthritis patients. The youngest children (4 years of age) 
had reduced clearance (increased clearance when normalised by weight) compared with older children 
(12 years of age) and adults. Simulation of dosing suggests that while older children (10-17 years of 
age) will have serum levels close to those seen in adults, younger children will have appreciably lower 
levels. 
Paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
Patients with paediatric plaque psoriasis (aged 4 to 17 years) were administered 0.8 mg/kg (up to a 
maximum dose of 50 mg per week) of etanercept once weekly for up to 48 weeks. The mean serum 
steady-state trough concentrations ranged from 1.6 to 2.1 mcg/ml at weeks 12, 24, and 48. These mean 
concentrations in patients with paediatric plaque psoriasis were similar to the concentrations observed 
143 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (treated with 0.4 mg/kg etanercept twice weekly, up to 
maximum dose of 50 mg per week). These mean concentrations were similar to those seen in adult 
patients with plaque psoriasis treated with 25 mg etanercept twice-weekly. 
Adults 
Absorption 
Etanercept is slowly absorbed from the site of subcutaneous injection, reaching maximum 
concentration approximately 48 hours after a single dose. The absolute bioavailability is 76%. With 
twice-weekly doses, it is anticipated that steady-state concentrations are approximately twice as high 
as those observed after single doses. After a single subcutaneous dose of 25 mg Enbrel, the average 
maximum serum concentration observed in healthy volunteers was 1.65 ± 0.66 µg/ml, and the area 
under the curve was 235 ± 96.6 µg•hr/ml. Mean serum concentration profiles at steady state in treated 
RA patients were Cmax of 2.4 mg/l vs. 2.6 mg/l, Cmin of 1.2 mg/l vs. 1.4 mg/l, and partial AUC of 
297 mgh/l vs. 316 mgh/l for 50 mg Enbrel once weekly (n=21) vs. 25 mg Enbrel twice weekly (n=16), 
respectively. In an open-label, single-dose, two-treatment, crossover study in healthy volunteers, 
etanercept administered as a single 50 mg/ml injection was found to be bioequivalent to two 
simultaneous injections of 25 mg/ml. 
In a population pharmacokinetics analysis in ankylosing spondylitis patients, the etanercept steady 
state AUCs were 466 µg•hr/ml and 474 µg•hr/ml for 50 mg Enbrel once weekly (N= 154) and 25 mg 
twice weekly (N = 148), respectively. 
Distribution 
A biexponential curve is required to describe the concentration time curve of etanercept. The central 
volume of distribution of etanercept is 7.6 l, while the volume of distribution at steady-state is 10.4 l. 
Elimination 
Etanercept is cleared slowly from the body. The half-life is long, approximately 70 hours. Clearance is 
approximately 0.066 l/hr in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, somewhat lower than the value of 
0.11 l/hr observed in healthy volunteers. Additionally, the pharmacokinetics of Enbrel in rheumatoid 
arthritis patients, ankylosing spondylitis and plaque psoriasis patients are similar. 
There is no apparent pharmacokinetic difference between males and females. 
Linearity 
Dose proportionality has not been formally evaluated, but there is no apparent saturation of clearance 
across the dosing range. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In the toxicological studies with Enbrel, no dose-limiting or target organ toxicity was evident. Enbrel 
was considered to be non-genotoxic from a battery of in vitro and in vivo studies. Carcinogenicity 
studies, and standard assessments of fertility and postnatal toxicity, were not performed with Enbrel 
due to the development of neutralising antibodies in rodents. 
Enbrel did not induce lethality or notable signs of toxicity in mice or rats following a single 
subcutaneous dose of 2000 mg/kg or a single intravenous dose of 1000 mg/kg. Enbrel did not elicit 
dose-limiting or target organ toxicity in cynomolgus monkeys following twice weekly subcutaneous 
administration for 4 or 26 consecutive weeks at a dose (15 mg/kg) that resulted in AUC-based serum 
drug concentrations that were over 27-fold higher than that obtained in humans at the recommended 
dose of 25 mg. 
144 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Powder 
Mannitol (E421) 
Sucrose 
Trometamol 
Solvent 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
From a microbiological point of view, the reconstituted medicinal product should be used 
immediately. Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 6 hours at temperatures 
not above 25°C after reconstitution. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Enbrel may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 25° C for a single period of up to four 
weeks; after which, it should not be refrigerated again. Enbrel should be discarded if not used within 
four weeks of removal from refrigeration. 
For storage conditions of the reconstituted medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Clear glass vial (2 ml, type I glass) with rubber stopper, aluminium seal, and flip-off plastic cap. 
Enbrel is supplied with pre-filled syringes containing water for injection. The syringes are type I glass. 
The syringe cover contains dry natural rubber (latex) (see section 4.4). Cartons contain 4 vials of 
Enbrel, 4 pre-filled syringes of water for injections, 4 needles, 4 vial adaptors and 8 alcohol swabs.   
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Instructions for use and handling 
Enbrel is reconstituted with 1 ml water for injections before use, and administered by subcutaneous 
injection. The solution should be clear and colourless to pale yellow or pale brown, with no lumps, 
flakes or particles. Some white foam may remain in the vial – this is normal. Enbrel should not be 
used if all the powder in the vial is not dissolved within 10 minutes. Start again with another vial. 
Comprehensive instructions for the preparation and administration of the reconstituted Enbrel vial are 
given in the package leaflet, section 7, "Instructions for use." 
145 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/99/126/022 
9.  DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 03 February 2000 
Date of last renewal: 26 November 2009 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in dose-dispenser cartridge 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in dose-dispenser cartridge 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in dose-dispenser cartridge 
Each dose-dispenser cartridge contains 25 mg of etanercept. 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in dose-dispenser cartridge 
Each dose-dispenser cartridge contains 50 mg of etanercept. 
Etanercept is a human tumour necrosis factor receptor p75 Fc fusion protein produced by recombinant 
DNA technology in a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) mammalian expression system.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection. 
The solution is clear, and colourless to pale yellow or pale brown. 
4.  CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Enbrel in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe active 
rheumatoid arthritis in adults when the response to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, including 
methotrexate (unless contraindicated), has been inadequate. 
Enbrel can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued 
treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate. 
Enbrel is also indicated in the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults 
not previously treated with methotrexate. 
Enbrel, alone or in combination with methotrexate, has been shown to reduce the rate of progression 
of joint damage as measured by X-ray and to improve physical function. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Treatment of polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative) and extended oligoarthritis in 
children and adolescents from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to, or who have 
proved intolerant of, methotrexate.  
Treatment of psoriatic arthritis in adolescents from the age of 12 years who have had an inadequate 
response to, or who have proved intolerant of, methotrexate. 
147 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment of enthesitis-related arthritis in adolescents from the age of 12 years who have had an 
inadequate response to, or who have proved intolerant of, conventional therapy. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when the response to previous 
disease-modifying antirheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. Enbrel has been shown to improve 
physical function in patients with psoriatic arthritis, and to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral 
joint damage as measured by X-ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease. 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have had an inadequate response to 
conventional therapy. 
Non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
Treatment of adults with severe non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis with objective signs of 
inflammation as indicated by elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) and/or magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) evidence, who have had an inadequate response to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
(NSAIDs). 
Plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of adults with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis who failed to respond to, or who have a 
contraindication to, or are intolerant to other systemic therapy including ciclosporin, methotrexate or 
psoralen and ultraviolet-A light (PUVA) (see section 5.1). 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Treatment of chronic severe plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents from the age of 6 years who 
are inadequately controlled by, or are intolerant to, other systemic therapies or phototherapies. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Enbrel treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, 
ankylosing spondylitis, non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis, plaque psoriasis or paediatric plaque 
psoriasis. Patients treated with Enbrel should be given the Patient Card. 
The Enbrel dose-dispenser cartridge is available in 25 mg and 50 mg strengths. Other presentations of 
Enbrel are available in strengths of 10 mg, 25 mg, and 50 mg. 
Posology 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
25 mg Enbrel administered twice weekly is the recommended dose. Alternatively, 50 mg administered 
once weekly has been shown to be safe and effective (see section 5.1). 
Psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis and non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
The recommended dose is 25 mg Enbrel administered twice weekly, or 50 mg administered once 
weekly.  
148 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For all of the above indications, available data suggest that a clinical response is usually achieved 
within 12 weeks of treatment. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not 
responding within this time period. 
Plaque psoriasis 
The recommended dose of Enbrel is 25 mg administered twice weekly or 50 mg administered once 
weekly. Alternatively, 50 mg given twice weekly may be used for up to 12 weeks followed, if 
necessary, by a dose of 25 mg twice weekly or 50 mg once weekly. Treatment with Enbrel should 
continue until remission is achieved, for up to 24 weeks. Continuous therapy beyond 24 weeks may be 
appropriate for some adult patients (see section 5.1). Treatment should be discontinued in patients who 
show no response after 12 weeks. If re-treatment with Enbrel is indicated, the same guidance on 
treatment duration should be followed. The dose should be 25 mg twice weekly or 50 mg once 
weekly.  
Special populations 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required. 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required. Posology and administration are the same as for adults 18-64 years of 
age. 
Paediatric population 
The dosage of Enbrel is based on body weight for paediatric patients. Patients weighing less than 
62.5 kg should be accurately dosed on a mg/kg basis using the powder and solvent for solution for 
injection presentations or the powder for solution for injection presentations (see below for dosing for 
specific indication). Patients weighing 62.5 kg or more, may be dosed using a fixed-dose pre-filled 
syringe , pre-filled pen, or dose-dispenser cartridge. 
The safety and efficacy of Enbrel in children aged less than 2 years has not been established. 
No data are available. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis  
The recommended dose is 0.4 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 25 mg per dose), given twice weekly as a 
subcutaneous injection with an interval of 3-4 days between doses or 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 
50 mg per dose) given once weekly. Discontinuation of treatment should be considered in patients 
who show no response after 4 months. 
The 10 mg vial strength may be more appropriate for administration to children with JIA below the 
weight of 25 kg. 
No formal clinical trials have been conducted in children aged 2 to 3 years. However, limited safety 
data from a patient registry suggest that the safety profile in children from 2 to 3 years of age is similar 
to that seen in adults and children aged 4 years and older, when dosed every week with 0.8 mg/kg 
subcutaneously (see section 5.1). 
There is generally no applicable use of Enbrel in children aged below 2 years in the indication juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis (age 6 years and above) 
The recommended dose is 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 50 mg per dose) once weekly for up to 
24 weeks. Treatment should be discontinued in patients who show no response after 12 weeks. 
If re-treatment with Enbrel is indicated, the above guidance on treatment duration should be followed. 
The dose should be 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 50 mg per dose) once weekly. 
149 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There is generally no applicable use of Enbrel in children aged below 6 years in the indication plaque 
psoriasis. 
Method of administration 
Subcutaneous use 
The total content (0.5 ml for the 25 mg dose strength or 1 ml for the 50 mg dose strength) of the 
dose-dispenser cartridge should be administered using the SMARTCLIC injection device for a 
subcutaneous injection only. Suitable sites for injection would include the abdomen, upper thighs, or 
by caregiver only in the outer area of the upper arms. 
Enbrel solution for injection in a dose-dispenser cartridge is intended for single-use in conjunction 
with the SMARTCLIC device. After proper training on the injection technique, patients may 
self-inject using the SMARTCLIC device with the single-use dose-dispenser cartridge if their 
physician determines that it is appropriate and will receive medical follow-up as necessary. The 
physician should discuss with the patient which injection presentation option is the most appropriate. 
For administration, the instructions for use at the end of the Package Leaflet and in the user manual 
provided with the SMARTCLIC device should be followed (see section 6.6). Detailed instructions on 
unintentional dosing or scheduling variations, including missed doses, are provided in section 3 of the 
package leaflet. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Sepsis or risk of sepsis. 
Treatment with Enbrel should not be initiated in patients with active infections including chronic or 
localised infections. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the brand name and batch 
number of the administered product should be clearly recorded (or stated) in the patient file. 
Infections 
Patients should be evaluated for infections before, during, and after treatment with Enbrel, taking into 
consideration that the mean elimination half-life of etanercept is approximately 70 hours (range 7 to 
300 hours). 
Serious infections, sepsis, tuberculosis, and opportunistic infections, including invasive fungal 
infections, listeriosis and legionellosis, have been reported with the use of Enbrel (see section 4.8). 
These infections were due to bacteria, mycobacteria, fungi, viruses and parasites (including protozoa). 
In some cases, particular fungal and other opportunistic infections have not been recognised, resulting 
in delay of appropriate treatment and sometimes death. In evaluating patients for infections, the 
patient’s risk for relevant opportunistic infections (e.g., exposure to endemic mycoses) should be 
considered.  
Patients who develop a new infection while undergoing treatment with Enbrel should be monitored 
closely. Administration of Enbrel should be discontinued if a patient develops a serious infection. The 
safety and efficacy of Enbrel in patients with chronic infections have not been evaluated. Physicians 
should exercise caution when considering the use of Enbrel in patients with a history of recurring or 
150 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
chronic infections or with underlying conditions that may predispose patients to infections such as 
advanced or poorly controlled diabetes. 
Tuberculosis 
Cases of active tuberculosis including miliary tuberculosis and tuberculosis with extra-pulmonary 
location have been reported in patients treated with Enbrel. 
Before starting treatment with Enbrel, all patients must be evaluated for both active and inactive 
(‘latent’) tuberculosis. This evaluation should include a detailed medical history with personal history 
of tuberculosis or possible previous contact with tuberculosis and previous and/or current 
immunosuppressive therapy. Appropriate screening tests, i.e., tuberculin skin test and chest X-ray, 
should be performed in all patients (local recommendations may apply). It is recommended that the 
conduct of these tests should be recorded in the Patient Card. Prescribers are reminded of the risk of 
false negative tuberculin skin test results, especially in patients who are severely ill or 
immunocompromised. 
If active tuberculosis is diagnosed, Enbrel therapy must not be initiated. If inactive (‘latent’) 
tuberculosis is diagnosed, treatment for latent tuberculosis must be started with anti-tuberculosis 
therapy before the initiation of Enbrel, and in accordance with local recommendations. In this 
situation, the benefit/risk balance of Enbrel therapy should be very carefully considered. 
All patients should be informed to seek medical advice if signs/symptoms suggestive of tuberculosis 
(e.g., persistent cough, wasting/weight loss, low-grade fever) appear during or after Enbrel treatment. 
Hepatitis B reactivation 
Reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who were previously infected with the hepatitis B virus (HBV) 
and had received concomitant TNF-antagonists, including Enbrel, has been reported. This includes 
reports of reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who were anti-HBc positive but HBsAg negative. 
Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with Enbrel. For patients who 
test positive for HBV infection, consultation with a physician with expertise in the treatment of 
hepatitis B is recommended. Caution should be exercised when administering Enbrel in patients 
previously infected with HBV. These patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of active 
HBV infection throughout therapy and for several weeks following termination of therapy. Adequate 
data from treating patients infected with HBV with anti-viral therapy in conjunction with 
TNF-antagonist therapy are not available. In patients who develop HBV infection, Enbrel should be 
stopped and effective anti-viral therapy with appropriate supportive treatment should be initiated. 
Worsening of hepatitis C 
There have been reports of worsening of hepatitis C in patients receiving Enbrel. Enbrel should be 
used with caution in patients with a history of hepatitis C. 
Concurrent treatment with anakinra  
Concurrent administration of Enbrel and anakinra has been associated with an increased risk of serious 
infections and neutropenia compared to Enbrel alone. This combination has not demonstrated 
increased clinical benefit. Thus the combined use of Enbrel and anakinra is not recommended (see 
sections 4.5 and 4.8). 
Concurrent treatment with abatacept  
In clinical studies, concurrent administration of abatacept and Enbrel resulted in increased incidences 
of serious adverse events. This combination has not demonstrated increased clinical benefit; such use 
is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allergic reactions 
Allergic reactions associated with Enbrel administration have been reported commonly. Allergic 
reactions have included angioedema and urticaria; serious reactions have occurred. If any serious 
allergic or anaphylactic reaction occurs, Enbrel therapy should be discontinued immediately and 
appropriate therapy initiated. 
The needle cap of the dose-dispenser cartridge contains latex (dry natural rubber) that may cause 
hypersensitivity reactions when handled by, or when Enbrel is administered to persons with known or 
possible latex sensitivity. 
The needle cover of the pre-filled syringe in dose-dispenser cartridge contains latex (dry natural 
rubber). Patients or caregivers should contact their physician or healthcare professional before using 
Enbrel if the needle cover will be handled by or if Enbrel will be given to someone with a known or 
possible hypersensitivity (allergy) to latex. 
Immunosuppression 
The possibility exists for TNF-antagonists, including Enbrel, to affect host defences against infections 
and malignancies since TNF mediates inflammation and modulates cellular immune responses. In a 
study of 49 adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis treated with Enbrel, there was no evidence of 
depression of delayed-type hypersensitivity, depression of immunoglobulin levels, or change in 
enumeration of effector cell populations. 
Two juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients developed varicella infection and signs and symptoms of 
aseptic meningitis, which resolved without sequelae. Patients with a significant exposure to varicella 
virus should temporarily discontinue Enbrel therapy and be considered for prophylactic treatment with 
Varicella Zoster Immune Globulin. 
The safety and efficacy of Enbrel in patients with immunosuppression have not been evaluated. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
Solid and haematopoietic malignancies (excluding skin cancers) 
Reports of various malignancies (including breast and lung carcinoma and lymphoma) have been 
received in the postmarketing period (see section 4.8).  
In the controlled portions of clinical trials of TNF-antagonists, more cases of lymphoma have been 
observed among patients receiving a TNF-antagonist compared with control patients. However, the 
occurrence was rare, and the follow-up period of placebo patients was shorter than for patients 
receiving TNF-antagonist therapy. In the postmarketing setting, cases of leukaemia have been reported 
in patients treated with TNF-antagonists. There is an increased background risk for lymphoma and 
leukaemia in rheumatoid arthritis patients with long-standing, highly active, inflammatory disease, 
which complicates risk estimation. 
Based on current knowledge, a possible risk for the development of lymphomas, leukaemia or other 
haematopoietic or solid malignancies in patients treated with a TNF-antagonist cannot be excluded. 
Caution should be exercised when considering TNF-antagonist therapy for patients with a history of 
malignancy or when considering continuing treatment in patients who develop a malignancy. 
Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults (up to 
22 years of age) treated with TNF-antagonists (initiation of therapy ≤ 18 years of age), including 
Enbrel, in the postmarketing setting. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas. The other cases 
represented a variety of different malignancies and included rare malignancies typically associated 
152 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with immunosuppression. A risk for the development of malignancies in children and adolescents 
treated with TNF-antagonists cannot be excluded. 
Skin cancers 
Melanoma and non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) have been reported in patients treated with 
TNF-antagonists, including Enbrel. Postmarketing cases of Merkel cell carcinoma have been reported 
very infrequently in patients treated with Enbrel. Periodic skin examination is recommended for all 
patients, particularly those with risk factors for skin cancer. 
Combining the results of controlled clinical trials, more cases of NMSC were observed in patients 
receiving Enbrel compared with control patients, particularly in patients with psoriasis.  
Vaccinations 
Live vaccines should not be given concurrently with Enbrel. No data are available on the secondary 
transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients receiving Enbrel. In a double blind, placebo 
controlled, randomised clinical study in adult patients with psoriatic arthritis 184 patients also received 
a multivalent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine at week 4. In this study most psoriatic arthritis 
patients receiving Enbrel were able to mount effective B-cell immune response to pneumococcal 
polysaccharide vaccine, but titres in aggregate were moderately lower and few patients had two-fold 
rises in titres compared to patients not receiving Enbrel. The clinical significance of this is unknown. 
Autoantibody formation 
Treatment with Enbrel may result in the formation of autoimmune antibodies (see section 4.8). 
Haematologic reactions 
Rare cases of pancytopenia and very rare cases of aplastic anaemia, some with fatal outcome, have 
been reported in patients treated with Enbrel. Caution should be exercised in patients being treated 
with Enbrel who have a previous history of blood dyscrasias. All patients and parents/caregivers 
should be advised that if the patient develops signs and symptoms suggestive of blood dyscrasias or 
infections (e.g., persistent fever, sore throat, bruising, bleeding, paleness) whilst on Enbrel, they 
should seek immediate medical advice. Such patients should be investigated urgently, including full 
blood count; if blood dyscrasias are confirmed, Enbrel should be discontinued. 
Neurological disorders 
There have been rare reports of CNS demyelinating disorders in patients treated with Enbrel (see 
section 4.8). Additionally, there have been rare reports of peripheral demyelinating polyneuropathies 
(including Guillain-Barré syndrome, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy, 
demyelinating polyneuropathy, and multifocal motor neuropathy). Although no clinical trials have 
been performed evaluating Enbrel therapy in patients with multiple sclerosis, clinical trials of other 
TNF antagonists in patients with multiple sclerosis have shown increases in disease activity. A careful 
risk/benefit evaluation, including a neurologic assessment, is recommended when prescribing Enbrel 
to patients with pre-existing or recent onset of demyelinating disease, or to those who are considered 
to have an increased risk of developing demyelinating disease. 
Combination therapy 
In a controlled clinical trial of two years duration in rheumatoid arthritis patients, the combination of 
Enbrel and methotrexate did not result in unexpected safety findings, and the safety profile of Enbrel 
when given in combination with methotrexate was similar to the profiles reported in studies of Enbrel 
and methotrexate alone. Long-term studies to assess the safety of the combination are ongoing. The 
long-term safety of Enbrel in combination with other disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs 
(DMARD) has not been established. 
153 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The use of Enbrel in combination with other systemic therapies or phototherapy for the treatment of 
psoriasis has not been studied. 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
Based on pharmacokinetic data (see section 5.2), no dose adjustment is needed in patients with renal 
or hepatic impairment; clinical experience in such patients is limited. 
Congestive heart failure (Cardiac failure congestive) 
Physicians should use caution when using Enbrel in patients who have congestive heart failure (CHF). 
There have been postmarketing reports of worsening of CHF, with and without identifiable 
precipitating factors, in patients taking Enbrel. There have also been rare (< 0.1%) reports of new 
onset CHF, including CHF in patients without known pre-existing cardiovascular disease. Some of 
these patients have been under 50 years of age. Two large clinical trials evaluating the use of Enbrel in 
the treatment of CHF were terminated early due to lack of efficacy. Although not conclusive, data 
from one of these trials suggest a possible tendency toward worsening CHF in those patients assigned 
to Enbrel treatment.  
Alcoholic hepatitis 
In a phase II randomised placebo-controlled study of 48 hospitalised patients treated with Enbrel or 
placebo for moderate to severe alcoholic hepatitis, Enbrel was not efficacious, and the mortality rate in 
patients treated with Enbrel was significantly higher after 6 months. Consequently, Enbrel should not 
be used in patients for the treatment of alcoholic hepatitis. Physicians should use caution when using 
Enbrel in patients who also have moderate to severe alcoholic hepatitis. 
Wegener's granulomatosis 
A placebo-controlled trial, in which 89 adult patients were treated with Enbrel in addition to standard 
therapy (including cyclophosphamide or methotrexate, and glucocorticoids) for a median duration of 
25 months, has not shown Enbrel to be an effective treatment for Wegener’s granulomatosis. The 
incidence of non-cutaneous malignancies of various types was significantly higher in patients treated 
with Enbrel than in the control group. Enbrel is not recommended for the treatment of Wegener’s 
granulomatosis. 
Hypoglycaemia in patients treated for diabetes 
There have been reports of hypoglycaemia following initiation of Enbrel in patients receiving 
medication for diabetes, necessitating a reduction in anti-diabetic medication in some of these patients. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
In the Phase 3 studies in rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis, no overall 
differences in adverse events, serious adverse events, and serious infections in patients age 65 or older 
who received Enbrel were observed compared with younger patients. However, caution should be 
exercised when treating the elderly and particular attention paid with respect to occurrence of 
infections. 
154 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
Vaccinations 
It is recommended that paediatric patients, if possible, be brought up to date with all immunisations in 
agreement with current immunisation guidelines prior to initiating Enbrel therapy (see Vaccinations, 
above). 
Sodium content 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dosage unit. Patients on low 
sodium diets can be informed that this medicinal product is essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Concurrent treatment with anakinra  
Adult patients treated with Enbrel and anakinra were observed to have a higher rate of serious 
infection when compared with patients treated with either Enbrel or anakinra alone (historical data). 
In addition, in a double-blind placebo-controlled trial in adult patients receiving background 
methotrexate, patients treated with Enbrel and anakinra were observed to have a higher rate of serious 
infections (7%) and neutropenia than patients treated with Enbrel (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). The 
combination Enbrel and anakinra has not demonstrated increased clinical benefit and is therefore not 
recommended. 
Concurrent treatment with abatacept  
In clinical studies, concurrent administration of abatacept and Enbrel resulted in increased incidences 
of serious adverse events. This combination has not demonstrated increased clinical benefit; such use 
is not recommended (see section 4.4).  
Concurrent treatment with sulfasalazine  
In a clinical study of adult patients who were receiving established doses of sulfasalazine, to which 
Enbrel was added, patients in the combination group experienced a statistically significant decrease in 
mean white blood cell counts in comparison to groups treated with Enbrel or sulfasalazine alone. The 
clinical significance of this interaction is unknown. Physicians should use caution when considering 
combination therapy with sulfasalazine. 
Non-interactions 
In clinical trials, no interactions have been observed when Enbrel was administered with 
glucocorticoids, salicylates (except sulfasalazine), nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), 
analgesics, or methotrexate. See section 4.4 for vaccination advice. 
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions were observed in studies with 
methotrexate, digoxin or warfarin. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should consider the use of appropriate contraception to avoid 
becoming pregnant during Enbrel therapy and for three weeks after discontinuation of therapy. 
155 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy  
Developmental toxicity studies performed in rats and rabbits have revealed no evidence of harm to the 
foetus or neonatal rat due to etanercept. The effects of etanercept on pregnancy outcomes have been 
investigated in two observational cohort studies. A higher rate of major birth defects was observed in 
one observational study comparing pregnancies exposed to etanercept (n=370) during the first 
trimester with pregnancies not exposed to etanercept or other TNF-antagonists (n=164) (adjusted odds 
ratio 2.4, 95% CI: 1.0-5.5). The types of major birth defects were consistent with those most 
commonly reported in the general population and no particular pattern of abnormalities was identified. 
No change in the rate of spontaneous abortion, stillbirth, or minor malformations was observed. In 
another observational multi-country registry study comparing the risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes 
in women exposed to etanercept during the first 90 days of pregnancy (n=425) to those exposed to 
non-biologic drugs (n=3497), there was no observed increased risk of major birth defects (crude odds 
ratio [OR]= 1.22, 95% CI: 0.79-1.90; adjusted OR = 0.96, 95% CI: 0.58-1.60 after adjusting for 
country, maternal disease, parity, maternal age and smoking in early pregnancy). This study also 
showed no increased risks of minor birth defects, preterm birth, stillbirth, or infections in the first year 
of life for infants born to women exposed to etanercept during pregnancy. Enbrel should only be used 
during pregnancy if clearly needed. 
Etanercept crosses the placenta and has been detected in the serum of infants born to female patients 
treated with Enbrel during pregnancy. The clinical impact of this is unknown, however, infants may be 
at increased risk of infection. Administration of live vaccines to infants for 16 weeks after the 
mother’s last dose of Enbrel is generally not recommended. 
Breast-feeding 
In lactating rats following subcutaneous administration, etanercept was excreted in the milk and 
detected in the serum of pups. Limited information from the published literature indicates etanercept 
has been detected at low levels in human milk. Etanercept could be considered for use during 
breast-feeding taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy 
for the woman. 
While systemic exposure in a breastfed infant is expected to be low because etanercept is largely 
degraded in the gastrointestinal tract, limited data regarding systemic exposure in the breastfed infant 
are available. Therefore, the administration of live vaccines (e.g., BCG) to a breastfed infant when the 
mother is receiving etanercept could be considered 16 weeks after stopping breast-feeding (or at an 
earlier timepoint if the infant etanercept serum levels are undetectable).  
Fertility 
Preclinical data about peri- and postnatal toxicity of etanercept and of effects of etanercept on fertility 
and general reproductive performance are not available. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Enbrel has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are injection site reactions (such as pain, swelling, 
itching, reddening and bleeding at the puncture site), infections (such as upper respiratory infections, 
bronchitis, bladder infections and skin infections), headache, allergic reactions, development of 
autoantibodies, itching, and fever. 
156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse reactions have also been reported for Enbrel. TNF-antagonists, such as Enbrel, affect 
the immune system and their use may affect the body’s defenses against infection and cancer. Serious 
infections affect fewer than 1 in 100 patients treated with Enbrel. Reports have included fatal and 
life-threatening infections and sepsis. Various malignancies have also been reported with use of 
Enbrel, including cancers of the breast, lung, skin and lymph glands (lymphoma).   
Serious haematological, neurological and autoimmune reactions have also been reported. These 
include rare reports of pancytopenia and very rare reports of aplastic anaemia. Central and peripheral 
demyelinating events have been seen rarely and very rarely, respectively, with Enbrel use. There have 
been rare reports of lupus, lupus-related conditions, and vasculitis. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following list of adverse reactions is based on experience from clinical trials and on 
postmarketing experience. 
Within the organ system classes, adverse reactions are listed under headings of frequency (number of 
patients expected to experience the reaction), using the following categories: very common (≥ 1/10); 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very 
rare (< 1/10,000); not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
System Organ 
Class 
Very 
Common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to 
< 1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000 
Very 
Rare 
< 1/10,000 
Not Known 
(Cannot be 
Estimated from 
Available Data) 
Hepatitis B 
reactivation, listeria 
Infection 
(including 
upper 
respiratory 
tract 
infection, 
bronchitis, 
cystitis, 
skin 
infection)* 
Infections and 
infestations 
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified 
(including cysts 
and polyps) 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
system 
disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Tuberculosis, 
opportunistic 
infection (including 
invasive fungal, 
protozoal, bacterial, 
atypical 
mycobacterial, viral 
infections, and 
Legionella)* 
Malignant 
melanoma (see 
section 4.4), 
lymphoma, 
leukaemia  
Pancytopenia* 
Serious infections 
(including 
pneumonia, 
cellulitis, arthritis 
bacterial, sepsis 
and parasitic 
infection)* 
Non-melanoma 
skin cancers* (see 
section 4.4) 
Thrombocytopenia, 
anaemia, 
leukopenia, 
neutropenia 
Vasculitis 
(including anti-
neutrophilic 
cytoplasmic 
antibody positive 
vasculitis) 
Serious 
allergic/anaphylactic 
reactions (including 
angioedema, 
bronchospasm), 
sarcoidosis 
Allergic 
reactions 
(see Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue 
disorders), 
autoantibody 
formation* 
157 
Aplastic 
anaemia* 
Merkel cell 
carcinoma (see 
section 4.4), 
Kaposi’s sarcoma 
Histiocytosis 
haematophagic 
(macrophage 
activation 
syndrome)* 
Worsening of 
symptoms of 
dermatomyositis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ 
Class 
Very 
Common 
≥ 1/10 
Common 
≥ 1/100 to 
< 1/10 
Uncommon 
≥ 1/1,000 to 
< 1/100 
Rare 
≥ 1/10,000 to 
< 1/1,000 
Very 
Rare 
< 1/10,000 
Not Known 
(Cannot be 
Estimated from 
Available Data) 
CNS demyelinating 
events suggestive of 
multiple sclerosis or 
localised 
demyelinating 
conditions, such as 
optic neuritis and 
transverse myelitis 
(see section 4.4), 
peripheral 
demyelinating 
events, including 
Guillain-Barré 
syndrome, chronic 
inflammatory 
demyelinating 
polyneuropathy, 
demyelinating 
polyneuropathy, and 
multifocal motor 
neuropathy (see 
section 4.4), seizure 
New onset cardiac 
failure congestive 
(see section 4.4) 
Interstitial lung 
disease (including 
pneumonitis and 
pulmonary 
fibrosis)* 
Autoimmune 
hepatitis* 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome, 
cutaneous vasculitis 
(including 
hypersensitivity 
vasculitis), erythema 
multiforme, 
lichenoid reactions  
Cutaneous lupus 
erythematosus, 
subacute cutaneous 
lupus 
erythematosus, 
lupus-like syndrome 
Toxic 
epidermal 
necrolysis 
Glomerulonephritis 
Nervous system 
disorders  
Headache 
Eye disorders  
Cardiac 
disorders  
Respiratory, 
thoracic, and 
mediastinal 
disorders  
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders  
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders  
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders  
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions  
Uveitis, scleritis 
Worsening of 
cardiac failure 
congestive (see 
section 4.4) 
Inflammatory 
bowel disease 
Elevated liver 
enzymes* 
Pruritus, rash  Angioedema, 
psoriasis (including 
new onset or 
worsening and 
pustular, primarily 
palms and soles), 
urticaria, 
psoriasiform rash 
Pyrexia 
Injection 
site 
reactions 
(including 
bleeding, 
bruising, 
erythema, 
itching, 
pain, 
swelling)* 
*see Description of selected adverse reactions, below. 
158 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
One hundred and twenty-nine new malignancies of various types were observed in 4,114 rheumatoid 
arthritis patients treated in clinical trials with Enbrel for up to approximately 6 years, including 
231 patients treated with Enbrel in combination with methotrexate in the 2-year active-controlled 
study. The observed rates and incidences in these clinical trials were similar to those expected for the 
population studied. A total of 2 malignancies were reported in clinical studies of approximately 2 
years duration involving 240 Enbrel-treated psoriatic arthritis patients. In clinical studies conducted 
for more than 2 years with 351 ankylosing spondylitis patients, 6 malignancies were reported in 
Enbrel-treated patients. In a group of 2,711 plaque psoriasis patients treated with Enbrel in 
double-blind and open-label studies of up to 2.5 years, 30 malignancies and 43 nonmelanoma skin 
cancers were reported. 
In a group of 7,416 patients treated with Enbrel in rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing 
spondylitis and psoriasis clinical trials, 18 lymphomas were reported. 
Reports of various malignancies (including breast and lung carcinoma and lymphoma) have also been 
received in the postmarketing period (see section 4.4). 
Injection site reactions 
Compared to placebo, patients with rheumatic diseases treated with Enbrel had a significantly higher 
incidence of injection site reactions (36% vs. 9%). Injection site reactions usually occurred in the first 
month. Mean duration was approximately 3 to 5 days. No treatment was given for the majority of 
injection site reactions in the Enbrel treatment groups, and the majority of patients who were given 
treatment received topical preparations such as corticosteroids, or oral antihistamines. Additionally, 
some patients developed recall injection site reactions characterised by a skin reaction at the most 
recent site of injection along with the simultaneous appearance of injection site reactions at previous 
injection sites. These reactions were generally transient and did not recur with treatment. 
In controlled trials in patients with plaque psoriasis, approximately 13.6% of patients treated with 
Enbrel developed injection site reactions compared with 3.4% of placebo-treated patients during the 
first 12 weeks of treatment. 
Serious infections 
In placebo-controlled trials, no increase in the incidence of serious infections (fatal, life threatening, or 
requiring hospitalisation or intravenous antibiotics) was observed. Serious infections occurred in 6.3% 
of rheumatoid arthritis patients treated with Enbrel for up to 48 months. These included abscess (at 
various sites), bacteraemia, bronchitis, bursitis, cellulitis, cholecystitis, diarrhoea, diverticulitis, 
endocarditis (suspected), gastroenteritis, hepatitis B, herpes zoster, leg ulcer, mouth infection, 
osteomyelitis, otitis, peritonitis, pneumonia, pyelonephritis, sepsis, septic arthritis, sinusitis, skin 
infection, skin ulcer, urinary tract infection, vasculitis, and wound infection. In the 2-year 
active-controlled study where patients were treated with either Enbrel alone, methotrexate alone or 
Enbrel in combination with methotrexate, the rates of serious infections were similar among the 
treatment groups. However, it cannot be excluded that the combination of Enbrel with methotrexate 
could be associated with an increase in the rate of infections. 
There were no differences in rates of infection among patients treated with Enbrel and those treated 
with placebo for plaque psoriasis in placebo-controlled trials of up to 24 weeks duration. Serious 
infections experienced by Enbrel-treated patients included cellulitis, gastroenteritis, pneumonia, 
cholecystitis, osteomyelitis, gastritis, appendicitis, Streptococcal fasciitis, myositis, septic shock, 
diverticulitis and abscess. In the double-blind and open-label psoriatic arthritis trials, 1 patient reported 
a serious infection (pneumonia). 
159 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious and fatal infections have been reported during use of Enbrel; reported pathogens include 
bacteria, mycobacteria (including tuberculosis), viruses and fungi. Some have occurred within a few 
weeks after initiating treatment with Enbrel in patients who have underlying conditions (e.g., diabetes, 
congestive heart failure, history of active or chronic infections) in addition to their rheumatoid arthritis 
(see section 4.4). Enbrel treatment may increase mortality in patients with established sepsis. 
Opportunistic infections have been reported in association with Enbrel, including invasive fungal, 
parasitic (including protozoal), viral (including herpes zoster), bacterial (including Listeria and 
Legionella), and atypical mycobacterial infections. In a pooled data set of clinical trials, the overall 
incidence of opportunistic infections was 0.09% for the 15,402 subjects who received Enbrel. The 
exposure-adjusted rate was 0.06 events per 100 patient-years. In postmarketing experience, 
approximately half of all of the case reports of opportunistic infections worldwide were invasive 
fungal infections. The most commonly reported invasive fungal infections included Candida, 
Pneumocystis, Aspergillus, and Histoplasma. Invasive fungal infections accounted for more than half 
of the fatalities amongst patients who developed opportunistic infections. The majority of the reports 
with a fatal outcome were in patients with Pneumocystis pneumonia, unspecified systemic fungal 
infections, and aspergillosis (see section 4.4). 
Autoantibodies 
Adult patients had serum samples tested for autoantibodies at multiple timepoints. Of the rheumatoid 
arthritis patients evaluated for antinuclear antibodies (ANA), the percentage of patients who developed 
new positive ANA (≥ 1:40) was higher in patients treated with Enbrel (11%) than in placebo-treated 
patients (5%). The percentage of patients who developed new positive anti-double-stranded DNA 
antibodies was also higher by radioimmunoassay (15% of patients treated with Enbrel compared to 4% 
of placebo-treated patients) and by Crithidia luciliae assay (3% of patients treated with Enbrel 
compared to none of placebo-treated patients). The proportion of patients treated with Enbrel who 
developed anticardiolipin antibodies was similarly increased compared to placebo-treated patients. 
The impact of long-term treatment with Enbrel on the development of autoimmune diseases is 
unknown. 
There have been rare reports of patients, including rheumatoid factor positive patients, who have 
developed other autoantibodies in conjunction with a lupus-like syndrome or rashes that are 
compatible with subacute cutaneous lupus or discoid lupus by clinical presentation and biopsy. 
Pancytopenia and aplastic anaemia 
There have been postmarketing reports of pancytopenia and aplastic anaemia, some of which had fatal 
outcomes (see section 4.4). 
Interstitial lung disease 
In controlled clinical trials of etanercept across all indications, the frequency (incidence proportion) of 
interstitial lung disease in patients receiving etanercept without concomitant methotrexate was 0.06% 
(frequency rare). In the controlled clinical trials that allowed concomitant treatment with etanercept 
and methotrexate, the frequency (incidence proportion) of interstitial lung disease was 0.47% 
(frequency uncommon). There have been postmarketing reports of interstitial lung disease (including 
pneumonitis and pulmonary fibrosis), some of which had fatal outcomes. 
Concurrent treatment with anakinra  
In studies when adult patients received concurrent treatment with Enbrel plus anakinra, a higher rate of 
serious infections compared to Enbrel alone was observed and 2% of patients (3/139) developed 
neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count < 1000/mm3). While neutropenic, one patient developed 
cellulitis that resolved after hospitalisation (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Elevated liver enzymes 
In the double-blind periods of controlled clinical trials of etanercept across all indications, the 
frequency (incidence proportion) of adverse events of elevated liver enzymes in patients receiving 
etanercept without concomitant methotrexate was 0.54% (frequency uncommon). In the double-blind 
160 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
periods of controlled clinical trials that allowed concomitant treatment with etanercept and 
methotrexate, the frequency (incidence proportion) of adverse events of elevated liver enzymes was 
4.18% (frequency common). 
Autoimmune hepatitis 
In controlled clinical trials of etanercept across all indications, the frequency (incidence proportion) of 
autoimmune hepatitis in patients receiving etanercept without concomitant methotrexate was 0.02% 
(frequency rare). In the controlled clinical trials that allowed concomitant treatment with etanercept 
and methotrexate, the frequency (incidence proportion) of autoimmune hepatitis was 0.24% 
(frequency uncommon).  
Paediatric population 
Undesirable effects in paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
In general, the adverse events in paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis were similar in 
frequency and type to those seen in adult patients. Differences from adults and other special 
considerations are discussed in the following paragraphs. 
The types of infections seen in clinical trials in juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients aged 2 to 18 years 
were generally mild to moderate and consistent with those commonly seen in outpatient paediatric 
populations. Severe adverse events reported included varicella with signs and symptoms of aseptic 
meningitis, which resolved without sequelae (see also section 4.4), appendicitis, gastroenteritis, 
depression/personality disorder, cutaneous ulcer, oesophagitis/gastritis, group A streptococcal septic 
shock, type I diabetes mellitus, and soft tissue and post-operative wound infection. 
In one study in children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis aged 4 to 17 years, 43 of 69 (62%) children 
experienced an infection while receiving Enbrel during 3 months of the study (part 1, open-label), and 
the frequency and severity of infections was similar in 58 patients completing 12 months of open-label 
extension therapy. The types and proportion of adverse events in juvenile idiopathic arthritis patients 
were similar to those seen in trials of Enbrel in adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis, and the 
majority were mild. Several adverse events were reported more commonly in 69 juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis patients receiving 3 months of Enbrel compared to the 349 adult rheumatoid arthritis patients. 
These included headache (19% of patients, 1.7 events per patient year), nausea (9%, 1.0 event per 
patient year), abdominal pain (19%, 0.74 events per patient year), and vomiting (13%, 0.74 events per 
patient year). 
There were 4 reports of macrophage activation syndrome in juvenile idiopathic arthritis clinical trials. 
Undesirable effects in paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
In a 48-week study in 211 children aged 4 to 17 years with paediatric plaque psoriasis, the adverse 
events reported were similar to those seen in previous studies in adults with plaque psoriasis. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No dose-limiting toxicities were observed during clinical trials of rheumatoid arthritis patients. The 
highest dose level evaluated has been an intravenous loading dose of 32 mg/m2 followed by 
subcutaneous doses of 16 mg/m2 administered twice weekly. One rheumatoid arthritis patient 
mistakenly self-administered 62 mg Enbrel subcutaneously twice weekly for 3 weeks without 
experiencing undesirable effects. There is no known antidote to Enbrel. 
161 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF-α) inhibitors, 
ATC code: L04AB01 
Tumour necrosis factor (TNF) is a dominant cytokine in the inflammatory process of rheumatoid 
arthritis. Elevated levels of TNF are also found in the synovium and psoriatic plaques of patients with 
psoriatic arthritis and in serum and synovial tissue of patients with ankylosing spondylitis. In plaque 
psoriasis, infiltration by inflammatory cells including T-cells leads to increased TNF levels in psoriatic 
lesions compared with levels in uninvolved skin. Etanercept is a competitive inhibitor of TNF-binding 
to its cell surface receptors and thereby inhibits the biological activity of TNF. TNF and lymphotoxin 
are pro-inflammatory cytokines that bind to two distinct cell surface receptors: the 55-kilodalton (p55) 
and 75-kilodalton (p75) tumour necrosis factor receptors (TNFRs). Both TNFRs exist naturally in 
membrane-bound and soluble forms. Soluble TNFRs are thought to regulate TNF biological activity. 
TNF and lymphotoxin exist predominantly as homotrimers, with their biological activity dependent on 
cross-linking of cell surface TNFRs. Dimeric soluble receptors such as etanercept possess a higher 
affinity for TNF than monomeric receptors and are considerably more potent competitive inhibitors of 
TNF binding to its cellular receptors. In addition, use of an immunoglobulin Fc region as a fusion 
element in the construction of a dimeric receptor imparts a longer serum half-life. 
Mechanism of action 
Much of the joint pathology in rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis and skin pathology in 
plaque psoriasis is mediated by pro-inflammatory molecules that are linked in a network controlled by 
TNF. The mechanism of action of etanercept is thought to be its competitive inhibition of TNF 
binding to cell surface TNFR, preventing TNF-mediated cellular responses by rendering TNF 
biologically inactive. Etanercept may also modulate biologic responses controlled by additional 
downstream molecules (e.g., cytokines, adhesion molecules, or proteinases) that are induced or 
regulated by TNF. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
This section presents data from four randomised controlled trials in adults with rheumatoid arthritis, 
one study in adults with psoriatic arthritis, one study in adults with ankylosing spondylitis, two studies 
in adults with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis, four studies in adults with plaque psoriasis, 
three studies in juvenile idiopathic arthritis and one study in paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis. 
Adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis 
The efficacy of Enbrel was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The 
study evaluated 234 adult patients with active rheumatoid arthritis who had failed therapy with at least 
one but no more than four disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Doses of 10 mg or 
25 mg Enbrel or placebo were administered subcutaneously twice a week for 6 consecutive months. 
The results of this controlled trial were expressed in percentage improvement in rheumatoid arthritis 
using American College of Rheumatology (ACR) response criteria.  
ACR 20 and 50 responses were higher in patients treated with Enbrel at 3 and 6 months than in 
patients treated with placebo (ACR 20: Enbrel 62% and 59%, placebo 23% and 11% at 3 and 
6 months respectively: ACR 50: Enbrel 41% and 40%, placebo 8% and 5% at months 3 and 6, 
respectively; p < 0.01 Enbrel vs placebo at all timepoints for both ACR 20 and ACR 50 responses).  
162 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Approximately 15% of subjects who received Enbrel achieved an ACR 70 response at month 3 and 
month 6 compared to fewer than 5% of subjects in the placebo arm. Among patients receiving Enbrel, 
the clinical responses generally appeared within 1 to 2 weeks after initiation of therapy and nearly 
always occurred by 3 months. A dose response was seen; results with 10 mg were intermediate 
between placebo and 25 mg. Enbrel was significantly better than placebo in all components of the 
ACR criteria as well as other measures of rheumatoid arthritis disease activity not included in the ACR 
response criteria, such as morning stiffness. A Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), which 
included disability, vitality, mental health, general health status, and arthritis-associated health status 
subdomains, was administered every 3 months during the trial. All subdomains of the HAQ were 
improved in patients treated with Enbrel compared to controls at 3 and 6 months.  
After discontinuation of Enbrel, symptoms of arthritis generally returned within a month. 
Re-introduction of treatment with Enbrel after discontinuation of up to 24 months resulted in the same 
magnitudes of responses as patients who received Enbrel without interruption of therapy based on 
results of open-label studies. Continued durable responses have been seen for up to 10 years in 
open-label extension treatment trials when patients received Enbrel without interruption.  
The efficacy of Enbrel was compared to methotrexate in a randomised, active-controlled study with 
blinded radiographic evaluations as a primary endpoint in 632 adult patients with active rheumatoid 
arthritis (<3 years duration) who had never received treatment with methotrexate. Doses of 10 mg or 
25 mg Enbrel were administered SC twice a week for up to 24 months. Methotrexate doses were 
escalated from 7.5 mg/week to a maximum of 20 mg/week over the first 8 weeks of the trial and 
continued for up to 24 months. Clinical improvement including onset of action within 2 weeks with 
Enbrel 25 mg was similar to that seen in the previous trials, and was maintained for up to 24 months. 
At baseline, patients had a moderate degree of disability, with mean HAQ scores of 1.4 to 1.5. 
Treatment with Enbrel 25 mg resulted in substantial improvement at 12 months, with about 44% of 
patients achieving a normal HAQ score (less than 0.5). This benefit was maintained in Year 2 of this 
study. 
In this study, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in Total 
Sharp Score (TSS) and its components, the erosion score and Joint Space Narrowing (JSN) score. 
Radiographs of hands/wrists and feet were read at baseline and 6, 12, and 24 months. The 10 mg 
Enbrel dose had consistently less effect on structural damage than the 25 mg dose. Enbrel 25 mg was 
significantly superior to methotrexate for erosion scores at both 12 and 24 months. The differences in 
TSS and JSN were not statistically significant between methotrexate and Enbrel 25 mg. The results are 
shown in the figure below. 
Radiographic Progression: Comparison of Enbrel vs Methotrexate in Patients with RA of 
<3 Years Duration 
163 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 Months
1.3
0.9
0.8
0.4*
0.4 0.4
e
n
i
l
e
s
a
B
m
o
r
f
e
g
n
a
h
C
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
24 Months
2.2
1.3
1.2
0.9
0.6*
0.6
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
TSS Erosions
JSN
TSS
Erosions
JSN
MTX
Enbrel 25 mg
*p < 0.05
In another active-controlled, double-blind, randomised study, clinical efficacy, safety, and 
radiographic progression in RA patients treated with Enbrel alone (25 mg twice weekly), methotrexate 
alone (7.5 to 20 mg weekly, median dose 20 mg), and of the combination of Enbrel and methotrexate 
initiated concurrently were compared in 682 adult patients with active rheumatoid arthritis of 6 months 
to 20 years duration (median 5 years) who had a less than satisfactory response to at least 1 
disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) other than methotrexate. 
Patients in the Enbrel in combination with methotrexate therapy group had significantly higher 
ACR 20, ACR 50, ACR 70 responses and improvement for DAS and HAQ scores at both 24 and 
52 weeks than patients in either of the single therapy groups (results shown in table below). 
Significant advantages for Enbrel in combination with methotrexate compared with Enbrel 
monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy were also observed after 24 months. 
Clinical Efficacy Results at 12 Months: Comparison of Enbrel vs Methotrexate vs Enbrel in 
Combination with Methotrexate in Patients with RA of 6 Months To 20 Years Duration 
Endpoint 
ACR Responsesa  
ACR 20 
ACR 50 
ACR 70 
DAS 
Baseline scoreb 
Week 52 scoreb 
Remissionc 
HAQ 
Baseline 
Week 52 
Methotrexate 
(n = 228) 
Enbrel 
(n = 223) 
Enbrel + 
Methotrexate 
(n = 231) 
58.8% 
36.4% 
16.7% 
5.5 
3.0 
14% 
1.7 
1.1 
65.5% 
43.0% 
22.0% 
5.7 
3.0 
18% 
1.7 
1.0 
74.5% †,φ 
63.2% †,φ 
39.8% †,φ 
5.5 
2.3†,φ 
37%†,φ 
1.8 
0.8†,φ 
a: Patients who did not complete 12 months in the study were considered to be non-responders. 
b: Values for Disease Activity Score (DAS) are means. 
c: Remission is defined as DAS <1.6 
Pairwise comparison p-values: † = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs methotrexate 
and φ = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs Enbrel 
164 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Radiographic progression at 12 months was significantly less in the Enbrel group than in the 
methotrexate group, while the combination was significantly better than either monotherapy at 
slowing radiographic progression (see figure below). 
Radiographic Progression: Comparison of Enbrel vs Methotrexate vs Enbrel in Combination 
with Methotrexate in Patients with RA of 6 Months To 20 Years Duration (12 Month Results) 
e
n
i
l
e
s
a
B
m
o
r
f
e
g
n
a
h
C
3.0
2.5
2.0
1.5
1.0
0.5
0.0
-0.5
-1.0
2.80
Methotrexate
Enbrel 
Enbrel + Methotrexate
1.68
1.12
0.52*
0.21*
0.32
-0.30†
-0.23†,φ
-0.54†,φ
TSS
Erosions
JSN
Pairwise comparison p-values: * = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel vs 
methotrexate, † = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs 
methotrexate and φ = p < 0.05 for comparisons of Enbrel + methotrexate vs Enbrel 
Significant advantages for Enbrel in combination with methotrexate compared with Enbrel 
monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy were also observed after 24 months. Similarly, the 
significant advantages for Enbrel monotherapy compared with methotrexate monotherapy were also 
observed after 24 months. 
In an analysis in which all patients who dropped out of the study for any reason were considered to 
have progressed, the percentage of patients without progression (TSS change ≤ 0.5) at 24 months was 
higher in the Enbrel in combination with methotrexate group compared with the Enbrel alone and 
methotrexate alone groups (62%, 50%, and 36%, respectively; p< 0.05). The difference between 
Enbrel alone and methotrexate alone was also significant (p< 0.05). Among patients who completed a 
full 24 months of therapy in the study, the non-progression rates were 78%, 70%, and 61%, 
respectively. 
The safety and efficacy of 50 mg Enbrel (two 25 mg SC injections) administered once weekly were 
evaluated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of 420 patients with active RA. In this study, 53 
patients received placebo, 214 patients received 50 mg Enbrel once weekly and 153 patients received 
25 mg Enbrel twice weekly. The safety and efficacy profiles of the two Enbrel treatment regimens 
were comparable at week 8 in their effect on signs and symptoms of RA; data at week 16 did not show 
comparability (non-inferiority) between the two regimens. A single 50 mg/ml injection of Enbrel was 
found to be bioequivalent to two simultaneous injections of 25 mg/ml. 
Adult patients with psoriatic arthritis 
The efficacy of Enbrel was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in 205 
patients with psoriatic arthritis. Patients were between 18 and 70 years of age and had active psoriatic 
arthritis (≥ 3 swollen joints and ≥ 3 tender joints) in at least one of the following forms: (1) distal 
165 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
interphalangeal (DIP) involvement; (2) polyarticular arthritis (absence of rheumatoid nodules and 
presence of psoriasis); (3) arthritis mutilans; (4) asymmetric psoriatic arthritis; or (5) spondylitis-like 
ankylosis. Patients also had plaque psoriasis with a qualifying target lesion ≥ 2 cm in diameter. 
Patients had previously been treated with NSAIDs (86%), DMARDs (80%), and corticosteroids 
(24%). Patients currently on methotrexate therapy (stable for ≥ 2 months) could continue at a stable 
dose of ≤ 25 mg/week methotrexate. Doses of 25 mg of Enbrel (based on dose-finding studies in 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis) or placebo were administered SC twice a week for 6 months. At the 
end of the double-blind study, patients could enter a long-term open-label extension study for a total 
duration of up to 2 years. 
Clinical responses were expressed as percentages of patients achieving the ACR 20, 50, and 70 
response and percentages with improvement in Psoriatic Arthritis Response Criteria (PsARC). Results 
are summarised in the table below. 
Responses of Patients with Psoriatic Arthritis in a 
Placebo-Controlled Trial 
  Psoriatic Arthritis Response 
Percent of Patients 
Placebo 
n = 104 
Enbrela 
n = 101 
  ACR 20 
     Month 3 
     Month 6 
  ACR 50 
     Month 3 
     Month 6 
  ACR 70 
     Month 3 
     Month 6 
  PsARC 
     Month 3 
     Month 6 
15 
13 
4 
4 
0 
1 
31 
23 
59b 
50b 
38b 
37b 
11b 
9c 
72b 
70b 
a: 25 mg Enbrel SC twice weekly 
b: p < 0.001, Enbrel vs. placebo 
c: p < 0.01, Enbrel vs. placebo 
Among patients with psoriatic arthritis who received Enbrel, the clinical responses were apparent at 
the time of the first visit (4 weeks) and were maintained through 6 months of therapy. Enbrel was 
significantly better than placebo in all measures of disease activity (p < 0.001), and responses were 
similar with and without concomitant methotrexate therapy. Quality of life in psoriatic arthritis 
patients was assessed at every timepoint using the disability index of the HAQ. The disability index 
score was significantly improved at all timepoints in psoriatic arthritis patients treated with Enbrel, 
relative to placebo (p < 0.001).  
Radiographic changes were assessed in the psoriatic arthritis study. Radiographs of hands and wrists 
were obtained at baseline and months 6, 12, and 24. The modified TSS at 12 months is presented in 
the Table below. In an analysis in which all patients who dropped out of the study for any reason were 
considered to have progressed, the percentage of patients without progression (TSS change ≤ 0.5) at 
12 months was higher in the Enbrel group compared with the placebo group (73% vs. 47%, 
respectively, p ≤ 0.001). The effect of Enbrel on radiographic progression was maintained in patients 
who continued on treatment during the second year. The slowing of peripheral joint damage was 
observed in patients with polyarticular symmetrical joint involvement.   
166 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mean (SE) Annualized Change from Baseline in Total Sharp Score 
Time 
Month 12 
SE = standard error.   
a. p = 0.0001.   
Placebo 
(n = 104) 
1.00 (0.29) 
Etanercept 
(n = 101) 
-0.03 (0.09)a 
Enbrel treatment resulted in improvement in physical function during the double-blind period, and this 
benefit was maintained during the longer-term exposure of up to 2 years. 
There is insufficient evidence of the efficacy of Enbrel in patients with ankylosing spondylitis-like and 
arthritis mutilans psoriatic arthropathies due to the small number of patients studied. 
No study has been performed in patients with psoriatic arthritis using the 50 mg once weekly dosing 
regimen. Evidence of efficacy for the once weekly dosing regimen in this patient population has been 
based on data from the study in patients with ankylosing spondylitis. 
Adult patients with ankylosing spondylitis 
The efficacy of Enbrel in ankylosing spondylitis was assessed in 3 randomised, double-blind studies 
comparing twice weekly administration of 25 mg Enbrel with placebo. A total of 401 patients were 
enrolled from which 203 were treated with Enbrel. The largest of these trials (n= 277) enrolled 
patients who were between 18 and 70 years of age and had active ankylosing spondylitis defined as 
visual analog scale (VAS) scores of ≥ 30 for average of duration and intensity of morning stiffness 
plus VAS scores of ≥ 30 for at least 2 of the following 3 parameters: patient global assessment; 
average of VAS values for nocturnal back pain and total back pain; average of 10 questions on the 
Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index (BASFI). Patients receiving DMARDs, NSAIDS, or 
corticosteroids could continue them on stable doses. Patients with complete ankylosis of the spine 
were not included in the study. Doses of 25 mg of Enbrel (based on dose-finding studies in patients 
with rheumatoid arthritis) or placebo were administered subcutaneously twice a week for 6 months in 
138 patients. 
The primary measure of efficacy (ASAS 20) was a ≥ 20% improvement in at least 3 of the 4 
Assessment in Ankylosing Spondylitis (ASAS) domains (patient global assessments, back pain, 
BASFI, and inflammation) and absence of deterioration in the remaining domain. ASAS 50 and 70 
responses used the same criteria with a 50% improvement or a 70% improvement, respectively. 
Compared to placebo, treatment with Enbrel resulted in significant improvements in the ASAS 20, 
ASAS 50 and ASAS 70 as early as 2 weeks after the initiation of therapy. 
Responses of Patients with Ankylosing Spondylitis in a 
Placebo-Controlled Trial 
  Ankylosing Spondylitis 
Response 
  ASAS 20  
  2 weeks 
  3 months 
  6 months 
  ASAS 50  
  2 weeks 
  3 months 
Percent of Patients 
Placebo 
N = 139 
Enbrel 
N = 138 
46a 
60a 
58a 
24a 
45a 
22 
27 
23 
7 
13 
167 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  6 months 
  ASAS 70: 
  2 weeks 
  3 months 
  6 months  
10 
2 
7 
5 
42a 
12b 
29b 
28b 
 a: p <0.001, Enbrel vs. Placebo 
 b: p = 0.002, Enbrel vs. placebo 
Among patients with ankylosing spondylitis who received Enbrel, the clinical responses were apparent 
at the time of the first visit (2 weeks) and were maintained through 6 months of therapy. Responses 
were similar in patients who were or were not receiving concomitant therapies at baseline. 
Similar results were obtained in the 2 smaller ankylosing spondylitis trials. 
In a fourth study, the safety and efficacy of 50 mg Enbrel (two 25 mg SC injections) administered 
once weekly vs 25 mg Enbrel administered twice weekly were evaluated in a double-blind, 
placebo-controlled study of 356 patients with active ankylosing spondylitis. The safety and efficacy 
profiles of the 50 mg once weekly and 25 mg twice weekly regimens were similar. 
Adult patients with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis 
Study 1 
The efficacy of Enbrel in patients with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (nr-AxSpa) was 
assessed in a randomised, 12-week double-blind, placebo-controlled study. The study evaluated 
215 adult patients (modified intent-to-treat population) with active nr-AxSpa (18 to 49 years of age), 
defined as those patients meeting the ASAS classification criteria of axial spondyloarthritis but did not 
meet the modified New York criteria for AS. Patients were also required to have an inadequate 
response or intolerance to two or more NSAIDs. In the double-blind period, patients received Enbrel 
50 mg weekly or placebo for 12 weeks. The primary measure of efficacy (ASAS 40) was a 40% 
improvement in at least three of the four ASAS domains and absence of deterioration in the remaining 
domain. The double-blind period was followed by an open-label period during which all patients 
receive Enbrel 50 mg weekly for up to an additional 92 weeks. MRIs of the sacroiliac joint and spine 
were obtained to assess inflammation at baseline and at weeks 12 and 104. 
Compared to placebo, treatment with Enbrel resulted in statistically significant improvement in the 
ASAS 40, ASAS 20 and ASAS 5/6. Significant improvement was also observed for the ASAS partial 
remission and BASDAI 50. Week 12 results are shown in the table below. 
Efficacy Response in Placebo-Controlled nr-AxSpa Study: Percent of Patients Achieving 
Endpoints 
Double-Blind Clinical 
Responses at Week 12  
ASAS** 40 
ASAS 20 
ASAS 5/6 
ASAS partial remission 
BASDAI***50 
*Some patients did not provide complete data for each endpoint 
**ASAS=Assessments in Spondyloarthritis International Society 
***Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index 
a: p <0.001, b:<0.01 and c:<0.05, respectively between Enbrel and placebo 
Placebo 
N=106 to 109* 
15.7 
36.1 
10.4 
11.9 
23.9 
Enbrel 
N=103 to 105* 
32.4b 
52.4c 
33.0a 
24.8c 
43.8b 
At week 12, there was a statistically significant improvement in the SPARCC (Spondyloarthritis 
Research Consortium of Canada) score for the sacroiliac joint (SIJ) as measured by MRI for patients 
168 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
receiving Enbrel. Adjusted mean change from baseline was 3.8 for Enbrel treated (n=95) versus 0.8 
for placebo treated (n=105) patients (p<0.001). At week 104, the mean change from baseline in the 
SPARCC score measured on MRI for all Enbrel-treated subjects was 4.64 for the SIJ (n=153) and 
1.40 the spine (n=154). 
Enbrel showed statistically significantly greater improvement from baseline to week 12 compared to 
placebo in most health-related quality of life and physical function assessments, including BASFI 
(Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index), EuroQol 5D Overall Health State Score and SF-36 
Physical Component Score. 
Clinical responses among nr-AxSpa patients who received Enbrel were apparent at the time of the first 
visit (2 weeks) and were maintained through 2 years of therapy. Improvements in health-related 
quality of life and physical function were also maintained through 2 years of therapy. The 2 year data 
did not reveal any new safety findings. At week 104, 8 subjects had progressed to a score of bilateral 
Grade 2 on spinal X-ray according to the modified New York Radiological Grade, indicative of axial 
spondyloarthropathy. 
Study 2 
This multi-center, open-label, phase 4, 3-period study evaluated the withdrawal and retreatment of 
Enbrel in patients with active nr-AxSpa who achieved an adequate response (inactive disease defined 
as Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Score (ASDAS) C-reactive protein (CRP) less than 1.3) 
following 24 weeks of treatment.  
209 adult patients with active nr-AxSpa (18 to 49 years of age), defined as those patients meeting the 
Assessment of SpondyloArthritis International Society (ASAS) classification criteria of axial 
spondyloarthritis (but not meeting the modified New York criteria for AS), having positive MRI 
findings (active inflammation on MRI highly suggestive of sacroiliitis associated with SpA) and/or 
positive hsCRP (defined as high sensitivity C-reactive protein [hsCRP] > 3 mg/l), and active 
symptoms defined by an ASDAS CRP greater than or equal to 2.1 at the screening visit received 
open-label Enbrel 50 mg weekly plus stable background NSAID at the optimal tolerated 
anti-inflammatory dosage for 24 weeks in Period 1. Patients were also required to have an inadequate 
response or intolerance to two or more NSAIDs. At week 24, 119 (57%) patients achieved inactive 
disease and entered into the Period 2 40-week withdrawal phase where subjects discontinued 
etanercept, yet maintained the background NSAID. The primary measure of efficacy was the 
occurrence of flare (defined as an ASDAS erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) greater than or equal 
to 2.1) within 40 weeks following withdrawal of Enbrel. Patients who flared were retreated with 
Enbrel 50 mg weekly for 12 weeks (Period 3). 
In Period 2, the proportion of patients experiencing ≥1 flare increased from 22% (25/112) at week 4 to 
67% (77/115) at week 40. Overall, 75% (86/115) patients experienced a flare at any time point within 
40 weeks following withdrawal of Enbrel.  
The key secondary objective of Study 2 was to estimate time to flare after withdrawal of Enbrel and 
additionally compare the time to flare to patients from Study 1 who met the Study 2 withdrawal phase 
entry requirements and continued Enbrel therapy.   
The median time to flare following withdrawal of Enbrel was 16 weeks (95% CI: 13-24 weeks). Less 
than 25% of patients in Study 1 who did not have treatment withdrawn experienced a flare over the 
equivalent 40-weeks as in Period 2 Study 2. The time to flare was statistically significantly shorter in 
subjects who discontinued Enbrel treatment (Study 2) compared to subjects who received continuous 
etanercept treatment (Study 1), p<0.0001. 
Of the 87 patients who entered Period 3 and were retreated with Enbrel 50 mg weekly for 12 weeks, 
62% (54/87) reachieved inactive disease, with 50% of them reachieving it within 5 weeks (95% CI: 
4-8 weeks). 
169 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adult patients with plaque psoriasis 
Enbrel is recommended for use in patients as defined in section 4.1. Patients who “failed to respond 
to” in the target population is defined by insufficient response (PASI< 50 or PGA less than good), or 
worsening of the disease while on treatment, and who were adequately dosed for a sufficiently long 
duration to assess response with at least one of the three major systemic therapies as available. 
The efficacy of Enbrel versus other systemic therapies in patients with moderate to severe psoriasis 
(responsive to other systemic therapies) has not been evaluated in studies directly comparing Enbrel 
with other systemic therapies. Instead, the safety and efficacy of Enbrel were assessed in four 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. The primary efficacy endpoint in all four studies 
was the proportion of patients in each treatment group who achieved the PASI 75 (i.e., at least a 75% 
improvement in the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index score from baseline) at 12 weeks. 
Study 1 was a Phase 2 study in patients with active but clinically stable plaque psoriasis involving 
≥ 10% of the body surface area that were ≥ 18 years old. One hundred and twelve (112) patients were 
randomised to receive a dose of 25 mg of Enbrel (n=57) or placebo (n=55) twice a week for 24 weeks. 
Study 2 evaluated 652 patients with chronic plaque psoriasis using the same inclusion criteria as study 
1 with the addition of a minimum psoriasis area and severity index (PASI) of 10 at screening. Enbrel 
was administered at doses of 25 mg once a week, 25 mg twice a week or 50 mg twice a week for 
6 consecutive months. During the first 12 weeks of the double-blind treatment period, patients 
received placebo or one of the above three Enbrel doses. After 12 weeks of treatment, patients in the 
placebo group began treatment with blinded Enbrel (25 mg twice a week); patients in the active 
treatment groups continued to week 24 on the dose to which they were originally randomised. 
Study 3 evaluated 583 patients and had the same inclusion criteria as study 2. Patients in this study 
received a dose of 25 mg or 50 mg Enbrel, or placebo twice a week for 12 weeks and then all patients 
received open-label 25 mg Enbrel twice weekly for an additional 24 weeks. 
Study 4 evaluated 142 patients and had similar inclusion criteria to studies 2 and 3. Patients in this 
study received a dose of 50 mg Enbrel or placebo once weekly for 12 weeks and then all patients 
received open-label 50 mg Enbrel once weekly for an additional 12 weeks. 
In study 1, the Enbrel-treated group had a significantly higher proportion of patients with a PASI 75 
response at week 12 (30%) compared to the placebo-treated group (2%) (p< 0.0001). At 24 weeks, 
56% of patients in the Enbrel-treated group had achieved the PASI 75 compared to 5% of 
placebo-treated patients. Key results of studies 2, 3 and 4 are shown below. 
Responses of Patients with Psoriasis in Studies 2, 3 And 4 
------------------Study 2--------------
- 
---------------Study 3------------
- 
---------------Study 4------------
- 
----------Enbrel--------- 
50 mg  
25 mg  
BIW 
BIW 
n = 
162 
wk 
12 
58* 
34* 
n = 
162 
wk 
24a 
70 
44 
n = 
164 
wk 
12 
74* 
49* 
n = 
164 
wk 
24a 
77 
59 
Placebo 
n = 166 
wk 12 
14 
4 
--------Enbrel------- 
50 mg 
25 mg 
BIW 
BIW 
n = 196 
n = 196 
wk 12 
wk 12 
Placebo 
n = 193 
wk 12 
Placebo 
n = 46 
wk 12 
-------Enbrel------ 
50 mg 
50 mg 
QW 
QW 
n = 90 
n = 96 
wk 24a 
wk 12 
9 
3 
64* 
34* 
77* 
49* 
9 
2 
4 
69* 
38* 
83 
71 
39* 
64 
5 
34* 
39 
49* 
55 
4 
39* 
57* 
170 
Respons
e (%) 
PASI 50 
PASI 75 
DSGA b, 
clear or 
almost 
clear 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*p ≤ 0.0001 compared with placebo 
a. No statistical comparisons to placebo were made at week 24 in studies 2 and 4 because the original 
placebo group began receiving Enbrel 25 mg BIW or 50 mg once weekly from week 13 to week 24. 
b. Dermatologist Static Global Assessment. Clear or almost clear defined as 0 or 1 on a 0 to 5 scale. 
Among patients with plaque psoriasis who received Enbrel, significant responses relative to placebo 
were apparent at the time of the first visit (2 weeks) and were maintained through 24 weeks of therapy. 
Study 2 also had a drug withdrawal period during which patients who achieved a PASI improvement 
of at least 50% at week 24 had treatment stopped. Patients were observed off treatment for the 
occurrence of rebound (PASI ≥ 150% of baseline) and for the time to relapse (defined as a loss of at 
least half of the improvement achieved between baseline and week 24). During the withdrawal period, 
symptoms of psoriasis gradually returned with a median time to disease relapse of 3 months. No 
rebound flare of disease and no psoriasis-related serious adverse events were observed. There was 
some evidence to support a benefit of re-treatment with Enbrel in patients initially responding to 
treatment. 
In study 3, the majority of patients (77%) who were initially randomised to 50 mg twice weekly and 
had their Enbrel dose decreased at week 12 to 25 mg twice weekly maintained their PASI 75 response 
through week 36. For patients who received 25 mg twice weekly throughout the study, the PASI 75 
response continued to improve between weeks 12 and 36. 
In study 4, the Enbrel-treated group had a higher proportion of patients with PASI 75 at week 12 
(38%) compared to the placebo-treated group (2%) (p<0.0001). For patients who received 50 mg once 
weekly throughout the study, the efficacy responses continued to improve with 71% achieving PASI 
75 at week 24. 
In long-term (up to 34 months) open-label studies where Enbrel was given without interruption, 
clinical responses were sustained and safety was comparable to shorter-term studies. 
An analysis of clinical trial data did not reveal any baseline disease characteristics that would assist 
clinicians in selecting the most appropriate dosing option (intermittent or continuous). Consequently, 
the choice of intermittent or continuous therapy should be based upon physician judgment and 
individual patient needs. 
Antibodies to Enbrel 
Antibodies to etanercept have been detected in the sera of some subjects treated with etanercept. 
These antibodies have all been non-neutralising and are generally transient. There appears to be no 
correlation between antibody development and clinical response or adverse events. 
In subjects treated with approved doses of etanercept in clinical trials for up to 12 months, cumulative 
rates of anti-etanercept antibodies were approximately 6% of subjects with rheumatoid arthritis, 7.5% 
of subjects with psoriatic arthritis, 2% of subjects with ankylosing spondylitis, 7% of subjects with 
psoriasis, 9.7% of subjects with paediatric psoriasis, and 4.8% of subjects with juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis.  
The proportion of subjects who developed antibodies to etanercept in longer-term trials (of up to 
3.5 years) increases over time, as expected. However, due to their transient nature, the incidence of 
antibodies detected at each assessment point was typically less than 7% in rheumatoid arthritis 
subjects and psoriasis subjects. 
In a long-term psoriasis study in which patients received 50 mg twice weekly for 96 weeks, the 
incidence of antibodies observed at each assessment point was up to approximately 9%. 
171 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
Paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
The safety and efficacy of Enbrel were assessed in a two-part study in 69 children with 
polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis who had a variety of juvenile idiopathic arthritis onset 
types (polyarthritis, pauciarthritis, systemic onset). Patients aged 4 to 17 years with moderately to 
severely active polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis refractory to, or intolerant of, 
methotrexate were enrolled; patients remained on a stable dose of a single nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drug and/or prednisone (< 0.2 mg/kg/day or 10 mg maximum). In part 1, all patients 
received 0.4 mg/kg (maximum 25 mg per dose) Enbrel subcutaneously twice weekly. In part 2, 
patients with a clinical response at day 90 were randomised to remain on Enbrel or receive placebo for 
four months and assessed for disease flare. Responses were measured using the ACR Pedi 30, defined 
as ≥ 30% improvement in at least three of six and ≥ 30% worsening in no more than one of six JRA 
core set criteria, including active joint count, limitation of motion, physician and patient/parent global 
assessments, functional assessment, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR). Disease flare was 
defined as a ≥ 30% worsening in three of six JRA core set criteria and ≥ 30% improvement in not 
more than one of the six JRA core set criteria and a minimum of two active joints. 
In part 1 of the study, 51 of 69 (74%) patients demonstrated a clinical response and entered part 2. In 
part 2, 6 of 25 (24%) patients remaining on Enbrel experienced a disease flare compared to 20 of 
26 (77%) patients receiving placebo (p=0.007). From the start of part 2, the median time to flare was 
≥ 116 days for patients who received Enbrel and 28 days for patients who received placebo. Of 
patients who demonstrated a clinical response at 90 days and entered part 2 of the study, some of the 
patients remaining on Enbrel continued to improve from month 3 through month 7, while those who 
received placebo did not improve. 
In an open-label, safety extension study, 58 paediatric patients from the above study (from the age of 
4 years at time of enrolment) continued to receive Enbrel for up to 10 years. Rates of serious adverse 
events and serious infections did not increase with long-term exposure. 
Long-term safety of Enbrel monotherapy (n=103), Enbrel plus methotrexate (n=294), or methotrexate 
monotherapy (n=197) were assessed for up to 3 years in a registry of 594 children aged 2 to 18 years 
with juvenile idiopathic arthritis, 39 of whom were 2 to 3 years of age. Overall, infections were more 
commonly reported in patients treated with etanercept compared to methotrexate alone (3.8 versus 
2%), and the infections associated with etanercept use were of a more severe nature. 
In another open-label single-arm study (n=127), 60 patients with extended oligoarthritis (EO) 
(15 patients aged 2 to 4, 23 patients aged 5 to 11 and 22 patients aged 12 to 17 years old), 38 patients 
with enthesitis-related arthritis (12 to 17 years old), and 29 patients with psoriatic arthritis (12 to 
17 years old) were treated with Enbrel at a dose of 0.8 mg/kg (up to a maximum of 50 mg per dose) 
administered weekly for 12 weeks. In each of the JIA subtypes, the majority of patients met ACR Pedi 
30 criteria and demonstrated clinical improvement in secondary endpoints such as number of tender 
joints and physician global assessment. The safety profile was consistent with that observed in other 
JIA studies.  
Of the 127 patients in the parent study, 109 participated in the open-label extension study and were 
followed for an additional 8 years for a total of up to 10 years. At the end of the extension study, 
84/109 (77%) patients had completed the study; 27 (25%) while actively taking Enbrel, 7 (6%) had 
withdrawn from treatment due to low/inactive disease; 5 (5%) had re-started Enbrel following an 
earlier withdrawal from treatment; and 45 (41%) had stopped Enbrel (but remained under 
observation); 25/109 (23%) patients permanently discontinued from the study. Improvements in 
clinical status achieved in the parent study were generally maintained for all efficacy endpoints during 
the entire follow-up period. Patients actively taking Enbrel could enter an optional withdrawal-
retreatment period once during the extension study based on investigator’s judgement of clinical 
response. 30 patients entered the withdrawal period. 17 patients were reported to have a flare (defined 
as ≥ 30% worsening in at least 3 of the 6 ACR Pedi components with ≥ 30% improvement in not more 
172 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
than 1 of the remaining 6 components and a minimum of 2 active joints); median time to flare after 
Enbrel withdrawal was 190 days. 13 patients were re-treated and the median time to re-treatment from 
withdrawal was estimated as 274 days. Due to the small number of data points, these results should be 
interpreted with caution. 
The safety profile was consistent with that observed in the parent study. 
Studies have not been done in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis to assess the effects of 
continued Enbrel therapy in patients who do not respond within 3 months of initiating Enbrel therapy. 
Additionally, studies have not been conducted to assess the effects of reducing the recommended dose 
of Enbrel following its long-term use in patients with JIA. 
Paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
The efficacy of Enbrel was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in 211 
paediatric patients aged 4 to 17 years with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis (as defined by a sPGA 
score ≥ 3, involving ≥ 10% of the BSA, and PASI ≥ 12). Eligible patients had a history of receiving 
phototherapy or systemic therapy, or were inadequately controlled on topical therapy. 
Patients received Enbrel 0.8 mg/kg (up to 50 mg) or placebo once weekly for 12 weeks. At week 12, 
more patients randomised to Enbrel had positive efficacy responses (e.g. PASI 75) than those 
randomised to placebo. 
 Paediatric Plaque Psoriasis Outcomes at 12 Weeks 
PASI 75, n (%) 
PASI 50, n (%) 
Enbrel 
0.8 mg/kg Once 
Weekly 
(N = 106) 
60 (57%)a 
79 (75%)a 
sPGA “clear” or “minimal”, n (%) 
Abbreviation: sPGA-static Physician Global Assessment. 
a.  p < 0.0001 compared with placebo. 
56 (53%)a 
Placebo 
(N = 105) 
12 (11%) 
24 (23%) 
14 (13%) 
After the 12-week double-blind treatment period, all patients received Enbrel 0.8 mg/kg (up to 50 mg) 
once weekly for additional 24 weeks. Responses observed during the open-label period were similar to 
those observed in the double-blind period. 
During a randomised withdrawal period, significantly more patients re-randomised to placebo 
experienced disease relapse (loss of PASI 75 response) compared with patients re-randomised to 
Enbrel. With continued therapy, responses were maintained up to 48 weeks.  
The long-term safety and effectiveness of Enbrel 0.8 mg/kg (up to 50 mg) once weekly was assessed 
in an open-label extension study of 181 paediatric subjects with plaque psoriasis for up to 2 years 
beyond the 48 week study discussed above. Long-term experience with Enbrel was generally 
comparable to the original 48-week study and did not reveal any new safety findings.  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Etanercept serum values were determined by an Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA) 
method, which may detect ELISA-reactive degradation products as well as the parent compound. 
173 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absorption 
Etanercept is slowly absorbed from the site of subcutaneous injection, reaching maximum 
concentration approximately 48 hours after a single dose. The absolute bioavailability is 76%. With 
twice weekly doses, it is anticipated that steady-state concentrations are approximately twice as high 
as those observed after single doses. After a single subcutaneous dose of 25 mg Enbrel, the average 
maximum serum concentration observed in healthy volunteers was 1.65 ± 0.66 µg/ml, and the area 
under the curve was 235 ± 96.6 µg•hr/ml. 
Mean serum concentration profiles at steady state in treated RA patients were Cmax of 2.4 mg/l vs. 
2.6 mg/l, Cmin of 1.2 mg/l vs. 1.4 mg/l, and partial AUC of 297 mgh/l vs. 316 mgh/l for 50 mg Enbrel 
once weekly (n=21) vs. 25 mg Enbrel twice weekly (n=16), respectively. In an open-label, single-
dose, two-treatment, crossover study in healthy volunteers, etanercept administered as a single 
50 mg/ml injection was found to be bioequivalent to two simultaneous injections of 25 mg/ml. 
In a population pharmacokinetics analysis in ankylosing spondylitis patients, the etanercept steady 
state AUCs were 466 µg•hr/ml and 474 µg•hr/ml for 50 mg Enbrel once weekly (N = 154) and 25 mg 
twice weekly (N = 148), respectively. 
Distribution 
A biexponential curve is required to describe the concentration time curve of etanercept. The central 
volume of distribution of etanercept is 7.6 l, while the volume of distribution at steady-state is 10.4 l. 
Elimination 
Etanercept is cleared slowly from the body. The half-life is long, approximately 70 hours. Clearance is 
approximately 0.066 l/hr in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, somewhat lower than the value of 
0.11 l/hr observed in healthy volunteers. Additionally, the pharmacokinetics of Enbrel in rheumatoid 
arthritis patients, ankylosing spondylitis and plaque psoriasis patients are similar. 
There is no apparent pharmacokinetic difference between males and females. 
Linearity 
Dose proportionality has not been formally evaluated, but there is no apparent saturation of clearance 
across the dosing range. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Although there is elimination of radioactivity in urine after administration of radiolabelled etanercept 
to patients and volunteers, increased etanercept concentrations were not observed in patients with 
acute renal failure. The presence of renal impairment should not require a change in dosage. 
Hepatic impairment 
Increased etanercept concentrations were not observed in patients with acute hepatic failure. The 
presence of hepatic impairment should not require a change in dosage. 
Elderly 
The impact of advanced age was studied in the population pharmacokinetic analysis of etanercept 
serum concentrations. Clearance and volume estimates in patients aged 65 to 87 years were similar to 
estimates in patients less than 65 years of age. 
174 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
Paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
In a polyarticular-course juvenile idiopathic arthritis trial with Enbrel, 69 patients (aged 4 to 17 years) 
were administered 0.4 mg Enbrel/kg twice weekly for three months. Serum concentration profiles 
were similar to those seen in adult rheumatoid arthritis patients. The youngest children (4 years of age) 
had reduced clearance (increased clearance when normalised by weight) compared with older children 
(12 years of age) and adults. Simulation of dosing suggests that while older children (10-17 years of 
age) will have serum levels close to those seen in adults, younger children will have appreciably lower 
levels. 
Paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
Patients with paediatric plaque psoriasis (aged 4 to 17 years) were administered 0.8 mg/kg (up to a 
maximum dose of 50 mg per week) of etanercept once weekly for up to 48 weeks. The mean serum 
steady state trough concentrations ranged from 1.6 to 2.1 mcg/ml at weeks 12, 24, and 48. These mean 
concentrations in patients with paediatric plaque psoriasis were similar to the concentrations observed 
in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (treated with 0.4 mg/kg etanercept twice weekly, up to 
maximum dose of 50 mg per week). These mean concentrations were similar to those seen in adult 
patients with plaque psoriasis treated with 25 mg etanercept twice weekly. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In the toxicological studies with Enbrel, no dose-limiting or target organ toxicity was evident. Enbrel 
was considered to be non-genotoxic from a battery of in vitro and in vivo studies. Carcinogenicity 
studies, and standard assessments of fertility and postnatal toxicity, were not performed with Enbrel 
due to the development of neutralising antibodies in rodents. 
Enbrel did not induce lethality or notable signs of toxicity in mice or rats following a single 
subcutaneous dose of 2000 mg/kg or a single intravenous dose of 1000 mg/kg. Enbrel did not elicit 
dose-limiting or target organ toxicity in cynomolgus monkeys following twice weekly subcutaneous 
administration for 4 or 26 consecutive weeks at a dose (15 mg/kg) that resulted in AUC-based serum 
drug concentrations that were over 27-fold higher than that obtained in humans at the recommended 
dose of 25 mg. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sucrose  
Sodium chloride 
L-Arginine hydrochloride 
Sodium phosphate monobasic dihydrate 
Sodium phosphate dibasic dihydrate 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
30 months. 
175 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4  Special precautions for storage  
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Enbrel may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 25°C for a single period of up to four 
weeks; after which, it should not be refrigerated again. Enbrel should be discarded if not used within 
four weeks of removal from refrigeration. 
Keep the dose-dispenser cartridges in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
25 mg solution for injection in dose-dispenser cartridge 
Dose-dispenser cartridge with integrated 25 mg pre-filled Enbrel syringe. The pre-filled syringe inside 
the dose-dispenser cartridge is made from clear type 1 glass with a staked stainless steel 27 gauge 
needle, rigid needle cover, and rubber stopper. The rigid needle cover of the pre-filled syringe contains 
dry natural rubber (a derivative of latex). See section 4.4.  
Cartons contain 4, 8 or 24 Enbrel dose-dispenser cartridges with 8, 16 or 48 alcohol swabs. Not all 
pack sizes may be marketed. 
50 mg solution for injection in dose-dispenser cartridge 
Dose-dispenser cartridge with integrated 50 mg pre-filled Enbrel syringe. The pre-filled syringe inside 
the dose-dispenser cartridge is made from clear type 1 glass with a staked stainless steel 27 gauge 
needle, rigid needle cover, and rubber stopper. The rigid needle cover of the pre-filled syringe contains 
dry natural rubber (a derivative of latex). See section 4.4.  
Cartons contain 2, 4 or 12 Enbrel dose-dispenser cartridges with 4, 8 or 24 alcohol swabs. Not all pack 
sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Instructions for use and handling 
Before injection, Enbrel dose-dispenser cartridges should be allowed to reach room temperature 
(approximately 15 to 30 minutes). The needle cover should not be removed while allowing the 
dose-dispenser cartridge to reach room temperature. By looking through the inspection window, the 
solution should be clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to pale yellow or pale brown and may 
contain small white or almost transparent particles of protein.  
Comprehensive instructions for the preparation and administration of Enbrel dose-dispenser cartridge 
are given in the package leaflet and in the user manual provided with the SMARTCLIC device. 
This medicinal product (dose-dispenser cartridge) is for single use only in conjunction with the 
SMARTCLIC device.  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
176 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in dose-dispenser cartridge  
EU/1/99/126/027 
EU/1/99/126/028 
EU/1/99/126/029 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in dose-dispenser cartridge 
EU/1/99/126/030 
EU/1/99/126/031 
EU/1/99/126/032 
9.  DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 03 February 2000 
Date of last renewal: 26 November 2009 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
177 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
178 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
Pfizer Ireland Pharmaceuticals 
Grange Castle Business Park 
Clondalkin 
Dublin 22 
Ireland 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Pfizer Manufacturing Belgium NV 
Rijksweg 12, 
2870 Puurs-Sint-Amands 
Belgium 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
•  Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
•  Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
Prior to the use of etanercept in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) must 
agree about the content and format of the educational programme, including communication media, 
179 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent 
Authority.  
The educational programme is aimed at reducing the risk of serious infections and congestive heart 
failure and ensuring the traceability of etanercept drug product. 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where etanercept is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals who are expected to prescribe etanercept and all patients who are expected to use 
etanercept have access to/are provided with the following educational materials: 
•  Patient Card 
o  Patient Cards are provided to etanercept prescribing physicians for distribution to patients 
receiving etanercept. This card provides the following important safety information for 
patients: 
  Etanercept treatment may increase the risk of infection and congestive heart 
failure in adults 
  Signs or symptoms of these safety concerns and when to seek attention from a 
healthcare professional  
 
Instructions to record the brand name and batch number of the medication to 
ensure traceability  
  Contact details of the etanercept prescriber 
180 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
181 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
182 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
CARTON TEXT – EU/1/99/126/002 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enbrel 25 mg powder for solution for injection 
etanercept 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial of Enbrel contains 25 mg etanercept. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
The other ingredients in Enbrel are: 
Powder: Mannitol, sucrose and trometamol. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for solution for injection 
4 vials of powder 
8 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
183 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Refer to package leaflet for alternative storage details. 
After preparing the Enbrel solution, immediate use is recommended (up to a maximum of 6 hours).  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/99/126/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
You will also need 1 ml of water for injections and a syringe to administer Enbrel 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Enbrel 25 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
184 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
185 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
TEXT FOR VIAL LABEL – EU/1/99/126/002 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Enbrel 25 mg powder for injection 
etanercept 
Subcutaneous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6.  OTHER 
186 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
TEXT FOR TRAY BACKING – EU/1/99/126/002 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enbrel 25 mg powder for solution for injection 
etanercept 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5.  OTHER 
187 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
CARTON TEXT – EU/1/99/126/003-005 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enbrel 25 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection 
etanercept 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial of Enbrel contains 25 mg etanercept. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
The other ingredients in Enbrel are: 
Powder: Mannitol, sucrose and trometamol 
Solvent: Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder and solvent for solution for injection 
4 vials of powder 
4 pre-filled syringes of 1 ml solvent 
4 stainless steel injection needles 
4 vial adaptors 
8 alcohol swabs 
8 vials of powder 
8 pre-filled syringes of 1 ml solvent 
8 stainless steel injection needles 
8 vial adaptors 
16 alcohol swabs 
24 vials of powder 
24 pre-filled syringes of 1 ml solvent 
24 stainless steel injection needles 
24 vial adaptors 
48 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use. 
188 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Refer to package leaflet for alternative storage details. 
After preparing the Enbrel solution, immediate use is recommended (up to a maximum of 6 hours). 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/99/126/003  4 vials  
EU/1/99/126/004  8 vials  
EU/1/99/126/005  24 vials  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
189 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Enbrel 25 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
190 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
TEXT FOR VIAL LABEL – EU/1/99/126/003-005 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Enbrel 25 mg powder for injection 
etanercept 
Subcutaneous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6.  OTHER 
191 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
TEXT FOR SYRINGE LABEL – EU/1/99/126/003-005 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Solvent for Enbrel 
Subcutaneous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
1 ml water for injections 
6.  OTHER 
192 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
TEXT FOR TRAY BACKING – EU/1/99/126/003-005 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enbrel 25 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection 
etanercept 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5.  OTHER 
193 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING   
CARTON TEXT – EU/1/99/126/013-015, EU/1/99/126/026 (25 mg Pre-filled Syringe) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
etanercept 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled syringe of Enbrel contains 25 mg etanercept. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
The other ingredients in Enbrel are: 
Sucrose, sodium chloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, sodium phosphate monobasic dihydrate, sodium 
phosphate dibasic dihydrate and water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
4 pre-filled syringes 
4 alcohol swabs 
8 pre-filled syringes 
8 alcohol swabs 
12 pre-filled syringes 
12 alcohol swabs 
24 pre-filled syringes 
24 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use. 
Injection advice: 
Inject the solution after it has reached room temperature (15 to 30 minutes after taking the product 
from the refrigerator).  
Inject slowly, at an angle of 45° to 90° to the skin. 
194 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Refer to package leaflet for alternative storage details. 
Keep the pre-filled syringes in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/99/126/013  4 pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/99/126/014  8 pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/99/126/015  24 pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/99/126/026  12 pre-filled syringes 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
195 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Enbrel 25 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
196 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
TEXT FOR PRE-FILLED SYRINGE LABEL – EU/1/99/126/013-015, EU/1/99/126/026 (25 mg 
Pre-filled Syringe) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Enbrel 25 mg injection  
etanercept 
Subcutaneous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
25 mg/0.5 ml 
6.  OTHER 
197 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
CARTON TEXT – EU/1/99/126/016-018 (50 mg Pre-filled Syringe) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
etanercept 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled syringe of Enbrel contains 50 mg etanercept. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
The other ingredients in Enbrel are: 
Sucrose, sodium chloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, sodium phosphate monobasic dihydrate, sodium 
phosphate dibasic dihydrate and water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
2 pre-filled syringes 
2 alcohol swabs 
4 pre-filled syringes 
4 alcohol swabs 
12 pre-filled syringes 
12 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use. 
Injection advice: 
Inject the solution after it has reached room temperature (15 to 30 minutes after taking the product 
from the refrigerator).  
Inject slowly, at an angle of 45° to 90° to the skin. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
198 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Refer to package leaflet for alternative storage details. 
Keep the pre-filled syringes in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/99/126/016  2 pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/99/126/017  4 pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/99/126/018  12 pre-filled syringes 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Enbrel 50 mg 
199 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
200 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
TEXT FOR PRE-FILLED SYRINGE – EU/1/99/126/016-018 (50 mg Pre-filled Syringe) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Enbrel 50 mg injection 
etanercept 
Subcutaneous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
50 mg/1 ml 
6.  OTHER 
201 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
CARTON TEXT – EU/1/99/126/019-021 (50 mg Pre-filled Pen) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
etanercept 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled pen of Enbrel contains 50 mg etanercept. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
The other ingredients in Enbrel are: 
Sucrose, sodium chloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, sodium phosphate monobasic dihydrate, sodium 
phosphate dibasic dihydrate and water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection in a pre-filled pen (MYCLIC) 
2 MYCLIC pre-filled pens 
2 alcohol swabs 
4 MYCLIC pre-filled pens 
4 alcohol swabs 
12 MYCLIC pre-filled pens 
12 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use. 
Injection advice: 
Inject the solution after it has reached room temperature (15 to 30 minutes after taking the product 
from the refrigerator).  
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
202 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Refer to package leaflet for alternative storage details. 
Keep the pre-filled pens in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/99/126/019  2 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/99/126/020  4 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/99/126/021  12 pre-filled pens 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Enbrel 50 mg 
203 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
204 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
TEXT FOR PRE-FILLED PEN – EU/1/99/126/019-021 (50 mg Pre-filled Pen) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
etanercept 
Subcutaneous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
50 mg/1 ml 
6.  OTHER 
MYCLIC 
205 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
CARTON TEXT – EU/1/99/126/022 (For paediatric use) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enbrel 10 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection for paediatric use 
etanercept 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial of Enbrel contains 10 mg etanercept. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
The other ingredients in Enbrel are: 
Powder: Mannitol, sucrose and trometamol 
Solvent: Water for injections 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder and solvent for solution for injection 
4 vials of powder 
4 pre-filled syringes of 1 ml solvent 
4 stainless steel injection needles 
4 vial adaptors  
8 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use. 
The 10 mg vial is for children prescribed a dose of 10 mg or less. Follow the directions given by the 
doctor. 
Each vial should be used for just one dose in one patient, and any remaining solution should be 
discarded. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
206 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Refer to package leaflet for alternative storage details. 
After preparing the Enbrel solution, immediate use is recommended (up to a maximum of 6 hours).   
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/99/126/022 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Enbrel 10 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
207 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
208 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
TEXT FOR VIAL LABEL – EU/1/99/126/022 (For paediatric use) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Enbrel 10 mg powder for injection 
etanercept 
Subcutaneous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6.  OTHER 
209 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
TEXT FOR SYRINGE LABEL – EU/1/99/126/022 (For paediatric use) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Solvent for Enbrel 
Subcutaneous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
1 ml water for injections 
6.  OTHER 
210 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
TEXT FOR TRAY BACKING – EU/1/99/126/022 (For paediatric use) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enbrel 10 mg 
etanercept 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5.  OTHER 
211 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
CARTON TEXT – EU/1/99/126/023-025 (25 mg Pre-filled Pen)  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
etanercept 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled pen of Enbrel contains 25 mg etanercept. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
The other ingredients in Enbrel are: 
Sucrose, sodium chloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, sodium phosphate monobasic dihydrate, sodium 
phosphate dibasic dihydrate and water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection in a pre-filled pen (MYCLIC) 
4 MYCLIC pre-filled pens 
4 alcohol swabs 
8 MYCLIC pre-filled pens 
8 alcohol swabs 
24 MYCLIC pre-filled pens 
24 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use. 
Injection advice: 
Inject the solution after it has reached room temperature (15 to 30 minutes after taking the product 
from the refrigerator).  
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
212 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Refer to package leaflet for alternative storage details. 
Keep the pre-filled pens in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/99/126/023  4 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/99/126/024  8 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/99/126/025  24 pre-filled pens 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Enbrel 25 mg 
213 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER-2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER-HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
214 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
TEXT FOR PRE-FILLED PEN – EU/1/99/126/023-025 (25 mg Pre-filled Pen) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
etanercept 
Subcutaneous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
25 mg/0.5 ml 
6.  OTHER 
MYCLIC 
215 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON – EU/1/99/126/027-029 (25 mg Dose-Dispenser Cartridge) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in dose-dispenser cartridge 
etanercept 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each dose-dispenser cartridge of Enbrel contains 25 mg etanercept. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
The other ingredients in Enbrel are:  
Sucrose, sodium chloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, sodium phosphate monobasic dihydrate, sodium 
phosphate dibasic dihydrate and water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection in dose-dispenser cartridge  
4 single-use dose-dispenser cartridges for use in SMARTCLIC device only 
8 alcohol swabs 
8 single-use dose-dispenser cartridges for use in SMARTCLIC device only 
16 alcohol swabs 
24 single-use dose-dispenser cartridges for use in SMARTCLIC device only 
48 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use. 
Injection advice: 
Inject the solution after it has reached room temperature (15 to 30 minutes after taking the product 
from the refrigerator).  
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
216 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Refer to package leaflet for alternative storage details. 
Keep the dose-dispenser cartridges in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/99/126/027  4 dose-dispenser cartridges 
EU/1/99/126/028  8 dose-dispenser cartridges 
EU/1/99/126/029  24 dose-dispenser cartridges 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Enbrel 25 mg 
217 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN 
NN  
218 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON – EU/1/99/126/030-032 (50 mg Dose-dispenser cartridge) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in dose-dispenser cartridge 
etanercept 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each dose-dispenser cartridge of Enbrel contains 50 mg etanercept. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
The other ingredients in Enbrel are:  
Sucrose, sodium chloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, sodium phosphate monobasic dihydrate, sodium 
phosphate dibasic dihydrate and water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection in dose-dispenser cartridge 
2 single-use dose-dispenser cartridges for use in SMARTCLIC device only 
4 alcohol swabs 
4 single-use dose-dispenser cartridges for use in SMARTCLIC device only 
8 alcohol swabs 
12 single-use dose-dispenser cartridges for use in SMARTCLIC device only 
24 alcohol swabs 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use. 
Injection advice: 
Inject the solution after it has reached room temperature (15 to 30 minutes after taking the product 
from the refrigerator).  
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
219 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Refer to package leaflet for alternative storage details. 
Keep the dose-dispenser cartridges in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/99/126/030  2 dose-dispenser cartridges 
EU/1/99/126/031  4 dose-dispenser cartridges 
EU/1/99/126/032  12 dose-dispenser cartridges 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Enbrel 50 mg 
220 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
221 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
DOSE-DISPENSER CARTRIDGE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Enbrel 25 mg injection  
Enbrel 50 mg injection  
etanercept 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
0.5 ml 
1 ml 
6.  OTHER 
Needle end 
222 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
223 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Enbrel 25 mg powder for solution for injection 
etanercept 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Card, which contains important safety information that 
you need to be aware of before and during treatment with Enbrel. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you or a child in your care. Do not pass it on to others. It 
may harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours or those of the child you are 
caring for. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
• 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
Information in this leaflet is organised under the following 7 sections: 
1.  What Enbrel is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Enbrel 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
How to use Enbrel 
Possible side effects 
How to store Enbrel 
Contents of the pack and other information 
Instructions for use 
1.  What Enbrel is and what it is used for 
Enbrel is a medicine that is made from two human proteins. It blocks the activity of another protein in 
the body that causes inflammation. Enbrel works by reducing the inflammation associated with certain 
diseases. 
In adults (aged 18 and over), Enbrel can be used for moderate or severe rheumatoid arthritis, 
psoriatic arthritis, severe axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis, and moderate 
or severe psoriasis – in each case usually when other widely used treatments have not worked well 
enough or are not suitable for you. 
For rheumatoid arthritis, Enbrel is usually used in combination with methotrexate, although it may 
also be used alone if treatment with methotrexate is unsuitable for you. Whether used alone or in 
combination with methotrexate, Enbrel can slow down the damage to your joints caused by the 
rheumatoid arthritis and improve your ability to do normal daily activities. 
For psoriatic arthritis patients with multiple joint involvement, Enbrel can improve your ability to do 
normal daily activities. For patients with multiple symmetrical painful or swollen joints (e.g., hands, 
wrists and feet), Enbrel can slow down the structural damage to those joints caused by the disease.  
Enbrel is also prescribed for the treatment of the following diseases in children and adolescents 
• 
For the following types of juvenile idiopathic arthritis when treatment with methotrexate has not 
worked well enough or is not suitable for them: 
224 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative) and extended oligoarthritis in 
patients from the age of 2 years 
•  Psoriatic arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years 
• 
• 
For enthesitis-related arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years when other widely used 
treatments have not worked well enough or are not suitable for them 
Severe psoriasis in patients from the age of 6 years who have had an inadequate response to (or 
are unable to take) phototherapies or other systemic therapies. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Enbrel  
Do not use Enbrel 
• 
• 
• 
if you, or the child you are caring for, are allergic to etanercept or any of the other ingredients of 
Enbrel (listed in section 6). If you or the child experience allergic reactions such as chest 
tightness, wheezing, dizziness or rash, do not inject more Enbrel, and contact your doctor 
immediately. 
if you or the child have, or are at risk of developing a serious blood infection called sepsis. If 
you are not sure, please contact your doctor. 
if you or the child, have an infection of any kind. If you are not sure, please talk to your doctor. 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before taking Enbrel. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Allergic reactions: If you or the child experience allergic reactions such as chest tightness, 
wheezing, dizziness or rash, do not inject more Enbrel, and contact your doctor immediately. 
Infections/surgery: If you or the child develop a new infection, or are about to have any major 
surgery, your doctor may wish to monitor the treatment with Enbrel. 
Infections/diabetes: Tell your doctor if you or the child have a history of recurrent infections or 
suffer from diabetes or other conditions that increase the risk of infection. 
Infections/monitoring: Tell your doctor of any recent travel outside the European region. If you 
or the child develop symptoms of an infection such as fever, chills or cough, notify your doctor 
immediately. Your doctor may decide to continue to monitor you or the child for the presence of 
infections after you or the child stop using Enbrel. 
Tuberculosis: As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with Enbrel, your 
doctor will check for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Enbrel. This may 
include a thorough medical history, a chest X-ray and a tuberculin test. The conduct of these 
tests should be recorded on the Patient Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor if you 
or the child have ever had tuberculosis, or have been in close contact with someone who has had 
tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (such as persistent cough, weight loss, listlessness, 
mild fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy, tell your doctor immediately. 
Hepatitis B: Tell your doctor if you or the child have or have ever had hepatitis B. Your doctor 
should test for the presence of hepatitis B infection before you or the child begin treatment with 
Enbrel. Treatment with Enbrel may result in reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who have 
previously been infected with the hepatitis B virus. If this occurs, you should stop using Enbrel. 
Hepatitis C: Tell your doctor if you or the child have hepatitis C. Your doctor may wish to 
monitor the treatment with Enbrel in case the infection worsens. 
Blood disorders: Seek medical advice immediately if you or the child have any signs or 
symptoms such as persistent fever, sore throat, bruising, bleeding or paleness. Such symptoms 
may point to the existence of potentially life-threatening blood disorders, which may require 
discontinuation of Enbrel. 
225 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Nervous system and eye disorders: Tell your doctor if you or the child have multiple sclerosis, 
optic neuritis (inflammation of the nerves of the eyes) or transverse myelitis (inflammation of 
the spinal cord). Your doctor will determine if Enbrel is an appropriate treatment. 
Congestive heart failure: Tell your doctor if you or the child have a history of congestive heart 
failure, because Enbrel needs to be used with caution under these circumstances. 
Cancer: Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had lymphoma (a type of blood cancer) or 
any other cancer before you are given Enbrel. 
Patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis, who have had the disease for a long time, may be at 
higher than average risk of developing lymphoma. 
Children and adults taking Enbrel may have an increased risk of developing lymphoma or 
another cancer. 
Some children and teenage patients who have received Enbrel or other medicines that work the 
same way as Enbrel have developed cancers, including unusual types, which sometimes resulted 
in death. 
Some patients receiving Enbrel have developed skin cancers. Tell your doctor if you or the child 
develop any change in the appearance of the skin or growths on the skin. 
Chickenpox: Tell your doctor if you or the child are exposed to chickenpox when using Enbrel. 
Your doctor will determine if preventive treatment for chickenpox is appropriate. 
Alcohol abuse: Enbrel should not be used for the treatment of hepatitis related to alcohol abuse. 
Please tell your doctor if you or the child in your care have a history of alcohol abuse. 
•  Wegener’s granulomatosis: Enbrel is not recommended for the treatment of Wegener’s 
• 
granulomatosis, a rare inflammatory disease. If you or the child in your care have Wegener’s 
granulomatosis, talk to your doctor. 
Anti-diabetic medicines: Tell your doctor if you or the child have diabetes or are taking 
medicines to treat diabetes. Your doctor may decide if you or the child need less anti-diabetic 
medicine while taking Enbrel.  
Children and adolescents  
Vaccinations: If possible, children should be up to date with all vaccinations before using Enbrel. 
Some vaccines, such as oral polio vaccine, should not be given while using Enbrel. Please consult 
your doctor before you or the child receive any vaccines. 
Enbrel should not normally be used in children with polyarthritis or extended oligoarthritis below the 
age of 2 years, or in children with enthesitis-related arthritis or psoriatic arthritis below the age of 12 
years, or in children with psoriasis below the age of 6 years. 
Other medicines and Enbrel 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you or the child are taking, have recently taken or might take any 
other medicines (including anakinra, abatacept or sulfasalazine), even those not prescribed by the 
doctor. You or the child should not use Enbrel with medicines that contain the active substance 
anakinra or abatacept. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Enbrel should only be used during pregnancy if clearly needed. You should consult your doctor if you 
become pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby. 
If you received Enbrel during pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk of getting an infection. In 
addition, one study found more birth defects when the mother had received Enbrel in pregnancy, 
compared with mothers who had not received Enbrel or other similar medicines (TNF-antagonists), 
but there was no particular kind of birth defect reported. Another study found no increased risk of birth 
defects when the mother had received Enbrel in pregnancy. Your doctor will help you to decide 
whether the benefits of treatment outweigh the potential risk to your baby. 
226 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Talk to your doctor if you want to breastfeed while on Enbrel treatment. It is important that you tell 
your baby’s doctors and other healthcare professionals about the use of Enbrel during pregnancy and 
breastfeeding before your baby receives any vaccine. 
Driving and using machines 
The use of Enbrel is not expected to affect the ability to drive or use machines. 
3.  How to use Enbrel 
Always use this medicine exactly as the doctor has told you. Check with the doctor or pharmacist if 
you are not sure. 
If you feel that the effect of Enbrel is too strong or too weak, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. 
Dosing for adult patients (aged 18 years or over) 
Rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis 
The usual dose is 25 mg given twice a week or 50 mg once a week as an injection under the skin. 
However, your doctor may determine an alternative frequency at which to inject Enbrel.  
Plaque psoriasis 
The usual dose is 25 mg twice a week or 50 mg once a week.   
Alternatively, 50 mg may be given twice a week for up to 12 weeks, followed by 25 mg twice a week 
or 50 mg once a week.  
Your doctor will decide how long you should take Enbrel and whether retreatment is needed based on 
your response. If Enbrel has no effect on your condition after 12 weeks, your doctor may tell you to 
stop taking this medicine. 
Use in children and adolescents 
The appropriate dose and frequency of dosing for the child or adolescent will depend on body weight 
and disease. The doctor will provide you with detailed directions for preparing and measuring the 
appropriate dose. 
For polyarthritis or extended oligoarthritis in patients from the age of 2 years, or enthesitis-related 
arthritis or psoriatic arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years, the usual dose is 0.4 mg of Enbrel 
per kg bodyweight (up to a maximum of 25 mg) given twice weekly, or 0.8 mg of Enbrel per kg of 
bodyweight (up to a maximum of 50 mg) given once weekly. 
For psoriasis in patients from the age of 6 years, the usual dose is 0.8 mg of Enbrel per kg bodyweight 
(up to a maximum of 50 mg), and should be given once weekly. If Enbrel has no effect on the child’s 
condition after 12 weeks, your doctor may tell you to stop using this medicine. 
Method and route of administration 
Enbrel is administered by an injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection). 
Enbrel can be taken with or without food or drink. 
227 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The powder must be dissolved before use. Detailed instructions on how to prepare and inject 
Enbrel are provided in section 7, “Instructions for use.” Do not mix the Enbrel solution with any 
other medicine. 
To help you remember, it may be helpful to write in a diary which day(s) of the week Enbrel should be 
used. 
If you use more Enbrel than you should 
If you have used more Enbrel than you should (either by injecting too much on a single occasion or by 
using it too frequently), talk to a doctor or pharmacist immediately. Always have the outer carton of 
the medicine with you, even if it is empty. 
If you forget to inject Enbrel 
If you forget a dose, you should inject it as soon as you remember, unless the next scheduled dose is 
the next day; in which case you should skip the missed dose. Then continue to inject the medicine on 
the usual day(s). If you do not remember until the day that the next injection is due, do not take a 
double dose (two doses on the same day) to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop using Enbrel  
Your symptoms may return upon discontinuation.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Allergic reactions 
If any of the following happen, do not inject more Enbrel. Tell your doctor immediately, or go to the 
casualty department at your nearest hospital. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Trouble swallowing or breathing 
Swelling of the face, throat, hands, or feet 
Feeling nervous or anxious, throbbing sensations, sudden reddening of the skin and/or a warm 
feeling 
Severe rash, itching, or hives (elevated patches of red or pale skin that often itch) 
Serious allergic reactions are rare. However, any of the above symptoms may indicate an allergic 
reaction to Enbrel, so you should seek immediate medical attention. 
Serious side effects 
If you notice any of the following, you or the child may need urgent medical attention. 
• 
• 
• 
Signs of serious infections, such as high fever that may be accompanied by cough, shortness of 
breath, chills, weakness, or a hot, red, tender, sore area on the skin or joints 
Signs of blood disorders, such as bleeding, bruising, or paleness 
Signs of nerve disorders, such as numbness or tingling, changes in vision, eye pain, or onset of 
weakness in an arm or leg 
228 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Signs of heart failure or worsening heart failure, such as fatigue or shortness of breath with 
activity, swelling in the ankles, a feeling of fullness in the neck or abdomen, night-time 
shortness of breath or coughing, bluish colour of the nails or the lips 
Signs of cancers: Cancers may affect any part of the body including the skin and blood, and 
possible signs will depend on the type and location of the cancer. These signs may include 
weight loss, fever, swelling (with or without pain), persistent cough, presence of lumps or 
growths on the skin 
Signs of autoimmune reactions (where antibodies are made that may harm normal tissues in 
the body) such as pain, itching, weakness, and abnormal breathing, thinking, sensation, or vision 
Signs of lupus or lupus-like syndrome, such as weight changes, persistent rash, fever, joint or 
muscle pain, or fatigue 
Signs of inflammation of the blood vessels such as pain, fever, redness or warmth of the skin, 
or itching. 
These are rare or uncommon side effects, but are serious conditions (some of which may rarely be 
fatal). If these signs occur, tell your doctor immediately, or visit the casualty department at your 
nearest hospital. 
The known side effects of Enbrel include the following in groups of decreasing frequency: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in10 people): 
Infections (including colds, sinusitis, bronchitis, urinary tract infections and skin infections); 
injection site reactions (including bleeding, bruising, redness, itching, pain, and swelling) (these 
do not occur as often after the first month of treatment; some patients have developed a reaction 
at an injection site that was recently used); and headache. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
Allergic reactions; fever; rash; itching; antibodies directed against normal tissue (autoantibody 
formation). 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
Serious infections (including pneumonia, deep skin infections, joint infections, blood infection, 
and infections at various sites); worsening of congestive heart failure; low red blood cell count, 
low white blood cell count, low neutrophil (a type of white blood cell) count; low blood platelet 
count; skin cancer (excluding melanoma); localised swelling of the skin (angioedema); hives 
(elevated patches of red or pale skin that often itch); eye inflammation; psoriasis (new or 
worsening); inflammation of the blood vessels affecting multiple organs; elevated liver blood 
tests (in patients also receiving methotrexate treatment, the frequency of elevated liver blood 
tests is common); abdominal cramps and pain, diarrhoea, weight loss or blood in the stool (signs 
of bowel problems). 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
Serious allergic reactions (including severe localised swelling of the skin and wheezing); 
lymphoma (a type of blood cancer); leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow); 
melanoma (a type of skin cancer); combined low platelet, red, and white blood cell count; 
nervous system disorders (with severe muscle weakness and signs and symptoms similar to 
those of multiple sclerosis or inflammation of the nerves of the eyes or spinal cord); 
tuberculosis; new onset congestive heart failure; seizures; lupus or lupus-like syndrome 
(symptoms may include persistent rash, fever, joint pain, and tiredness); skin rash, which may 
lead to severe blistering and peeling of the skin; lichenoid reactions (itchy reddish-purple skin 
rash and/or threadlike white-grey lines on mucous membranes); inflammation of the liver 
caused by the body's own immune system (autoimmune hepatitis; in patients also receiving 
methotrexate treatment, the frequency is uncommon); immune disorder that can affect the lungs, 
skin and lymph nodes (sarcoidosis); inflammation or scarring of the lungs (in patients also 
receiving methotrexate treatment, the frequency of inflammation or scarring of the lungs is 
uncommon). 
229 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): failure of the bone marrow to produce crucial 
blood cells. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): Merkel cell carcinoma (a 
type of skin cancer); Kaposi’s sarcoma (a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes 
virus 8. Kaposi’s sarcoma most commonly appear as purple lesions on the skin); excessive 
activation of white blood cells associated with inflammation (macrophage activation 
syndrome); recurrence of hepatitis B (a liver infection); damage to the tiny filters inside your 
kidneys leading to poor kidney function (glomerulonephritis), worsening of a condition called 
dermatomyositis (muscle inflammation and weakness with an accompanying skin rash). 
Additional side effects in children and adolescents 
The side effects and their frequencies seen in children and adolescents are similar to those described 
above. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5.  How to store Enbrel 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and the label after “EXP”. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Before preparing the Enbrel solution, Enbrel may be stored outside of the refrigerator at temperatures 
up to a maximum of 25°C for a single period of up to four weeks; after which, it should not be 
refrigerated again. Enbrel should be discarded if not used within four weeks after removal from the 
refrigerator. It is recommended that you record the date that Enbrel is removed from the refrigerator 
and the date after which Enbrel should be discarded (no more than 4 weeks following the removal 
from the refrigerator). 
After preparing the Enbrel solution, immediate use is recommended. However, the solution may be 
used for up to 6 hours when stored at temperatures of up to 25°C.  
Do not use this medicine if you notice the solution is not clear or contains particles. The solution 
should be clear, colourless to pale yellow or pale brown, with no lumps or flakes or particles. 
Carefully dispose of any Enbrel solution that has not been injected within 6 hours. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
230 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information  
What Enbrel contains 
The active substance in Enbrel is etanercept. Each vial of Enbrel 25 mg contains 25 mg of etanercept.   
The other ingredients are: 
Powder: Mannitol (E421), sucrose and trometamol 
What Enbrel looks like and contents of the pack 
Enbrel 25 mg is supplied as a white powder for solution for injection (powder for injection). Each 
pack contains 4 single-dose vials and 8 alcohol swabs. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
Manufacturer 
Pfizer Manufacturing Belgium NV 
Rijksweg 12, 
2870 Puurs-Sint-Amands 
Belgium 
For any information about this medicinal product, please contact the local representative of the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Pfizer NV/SA 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11 
Česká Republika 
Pfizer, spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +420-283-004-111 
Danmark 
Pfizer ApS 
Tlf: +45 44 201 100 
Deutschland 
Pfizer Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000 
България  
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ,  
Клон България  
Teл: +359 2 970 4333 
Kύπρος 
PFIZER EΛΛAΣ A.E. (CYPRUS BRANCH)  
Tηλ: +357 22 817690 
Magyarország 
Pfizer Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 488 3700 
Malta 
Vivian Corporation Ltd. 
Tel: +35621 344610 
Nederland 
Pfizer bv 
Tel: +31 (0)800 63 34 636 
Norge 
Pfizer AS 
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00 
Eesti 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 666 7500 
Österreich 
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0 
231 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα 
PFIZER EΛΛAΣ A.E. 
Τηλ.: +30 210 67 85 800 
España 
Pfizer, S.L. 
Télf: +34 91 490 99 00 
France 
Pfizer 
Tél +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40 
Hrvatska 
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 3908 777 
Ireland 
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland 
Tel: +1800 633 363 (toll free) 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Tel: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Pfizer S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21 
Polska 
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00 
Portugal 
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda. 
Tel: (+351) 21 423 55 00 
România 
Pfizer Romania S.R.L 
Tel: +40 (0) 21 207 28 00 
Slovenija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, Pfizer, podružnica  
za svetovanje s področja farmacevtske  
dejavnosti, Ljubljana  
Tel: +386 (0)1 52 11 400 
Slovenská Republika 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka  
Tel: +421 2 3355 5500 
Suomi/Finland 
Pfizer Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 430 040 
Sverige  
Pfizer AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00 
Latvija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā 
Tel. +371 67035775 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Pfizer Limited 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Lietuva 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas Lietuvoje 
Tel. +3705 2514000 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
7. 
Instructions for use 
This section is divided into the following sub-sections: 
a. 
b. 
c. 
d. 
Introduction 
Setting up for an injection 
Preparing the Enbrel dose for injection 
Adding water for injections 
232 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
e.  Withdrawing the Enbrel solution from the vial 
f. 
g. 
h. 
Choosing an injection site  
Preparing the injection site and injecting the Enbrel solution 
Disposing of supplies 
a. 
Introduction 
The following instructions explain how to prepare and inject Enbrel. Please read the instructions 
carefully and follow them step by step. You will be instructed by your doctor or his/her assistant on 
the techniques of self-injection or on giving an injection to a child. Do not attempt to administer an 
injection until you are sure that you understand how to prepare and give the injection. 
This injection should not be mixed with any other medicine. 
b. 
Setting up for an injection 
•  Wash your hands thoroughly. 
• 
• 
• 
Select a clean, well-lit, flat working surface. 
Take the ENBREL vial out of the refrigerator and place it on a flat surface. 
You will also need the following items: 
A sterile syringe and needle(s) of 25 gauge x 16 mm or similar 
A vial or ampoule of water for injections 
2 alcohol swabs 
• 
Inspect the expiry dates on both the Enbrel vial label and the water for injections. They should 
not be used after the month and year shown. 
c. 
Preparing the Enbrel dose for injection 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Remove the plastic cap from the Enbrel vial. Do NOT remove the grey stopper or aluminium 
ring around the top of the vial. 
Use a new alcohol swab to clean the grey stopper on the Enbrel vial. After cleaning, do not 
touch the stopper with your hands. 
Check that a needle is on your syringe; if you are not sure how to attach a needle ask your 
doctor or nurse. 
Remove the needle cover by firmly pulling it straight off the syringe taking care not to touch the 
needle or allow the needle to touch any surfaces (see Diagram 1). Be careful not to bend or twist 
the cover during removal to avoid damage to the needle. 
Diagram 1 
Check your syringe contains 1 ml of water for injections.   
If you are not sure how to fill your syringe ask your doctor or nurse. 
Make sure your syringe does not contain any air bubbles. 
• 
• 
• 
•  With the Enbrel vial upright on a flat surface, such as a table, insert the syringe needle straight 
down through the centre ring of the grey stopper of the vial (see Diagram 2). If the needle is 
correctly lined up, you should feel a slight resistance and then a “pop” as the needle goes 
through the centre of the stopper. Look for the needle tip inside the stopper window (see 
233 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diagram 3). If the needle is not correctly lined up, you will feel constant resistance as it goes 
through the stopper and no “pop”. Do not insert the needle at an angle, this may cause the 
needle to bend and/or prevent proper addition of the solvent into the vial (see Diagram 4).   
Diagram 2 
Diagram 3 
Diagram 4 
d. 
• 
• 
Adding water for injections 
Push the plunger in VERY SLOWLY until all the water for injections is in the vial. This will 
help reduce foaming (lots of bubbles) (see Diagram 5).    
Diagram 5 
Leave the syringe in place. Gently move the vial in circles a few times, to dissolve the powder 
(see Diagram 6). Do NOT shake the vial. Wait until all the powder dissolves (usually less than 
10 minutes). The solution should be clear and colourless to pale yellow or pale brown, with no 
lumps, flakes, or particles. Some white foam may remain in the vial  this is normal. Do NOT 
use Enbrel if all the powder in the vial is not dissolved within 10 minutes. Start again with a 
new Enbrel vial, water for injections, syringe, needle and swabs. 
Diagram 6 
e.  Withdrawing the Enbrel solution from the vial 
•  With the needle still in the vial, hold the vial upside down at eye level. Slowly pull the plunger 
back to draw the liquid into the syringe (see Diagram 7). As the liquid level drops in the vial, 
you may need to withdraw the needle partially to keep the tip of the needle in the liquid. For 
adult patients, withdraw the entire volume. For children, remove only the portion of liquid as 
directed by your child’s doctor. 
234 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diagram 7 
•  With the needle still inserted in the vial, check the syringe for air bubbles. Gently tap the 
syringe to make any bubbles rise to the top of the syringe, near the needle (see Diagram 8). 
Slowly press the plunger to push bubbles out of the syringe and into the vial. When you do this, 
if you accidentally push liquid back into the vial, slowly pull the plunger to draw the liquid back 
into the syringe.  
Diagram 8 
• 
Pull the needle completely out of the vial. Again, do not touch the needle or allow it to touch 
any surface.  
(Note: After you have completed these steps, a small amount of liquid may remain in the vial. This is 
normal.) 
f. 
• 
Choosing an injection site 
The three recommended injection sites for Enbrel include: (1) the front of the middle thighs; (2) 
the abdomen, except for the 5 cm area right around the navel; and (3) the outer area of the upper 
arms (see Diagram 9). If you are self injecting, you should not use the outer area of the upper 
arms. 
Diagram 9 
235 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
A different site should be used for each new injection. Each new injection should be given at 
least 3 cm from an old site. Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red, or 
hard. Avoid areas with scars or stretch marks. (It may be helpful to keep notes on the location of 
the previous injections.) 
If you or the child have psoriasis, you should try not to inject directly into any raised, thick, red, 
or scaly skin patches (“psoriasis skin lesions”). 
g. 
Preparing the injection site and injecting the Enbrel solution 
•  Wipe the site where Enbrel is to be injected with an alcohol swab, using a circular motion. Do 
NOT touch this area again before giving the injection. 
•  When the cleaned area of skin has dried, pinch and hold it firmly with one hand. With the other 
hand, hold the syringe like a pencil.     
•  With a quick, short motion, push the needle all the way into the skin at an angle between 45° 
and 90° (see Diagram 10). With experience, you will find the angle that is most comfortable for 
you or the child. Be careful not to push the needle into the skin too slowly, or with great force. 
Diagram 10 
•  When the needle is completely inserted into the skin, release the skin that you are holding. With 
your free hand, hold the syringe near its base to stabilise it. Then push the plunger to inject all of 
the solution at a slow, steady rate (see Diagram 11). 
Diagram 11 
•  When the syringe is empty, remove the needle from the skin, being careful to keep it at the same 
• 
h. 
• 
angle it was when it was inserted. 
Press a cotton ball over the injection site for 10 seconds. Slight bleeding may occur. Do NOT 
rub the injection site. A bandage is optional. 
Disposing of supplies 
The syringe and needle should NEVER be re-used. Never recap a needle. Dispose of the needle 
and syringe as instructed by your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
236 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you have any questions, please talk to a doctor, nurse or pharmacist who is familiar with 
Enbrel. 
237 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Enbrel 25 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection 
etanercept 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Card, which contains important safety information that 
you need to be aware of before and during treatment with Enbrel. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you or a child in your care. Do not pass it on to others. It 
may harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours or those of the child you are 
caring for. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
• 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
Information in this leaflet is organised under the following 7 sections: 
1.  What Enbrel is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Enbrel 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
How to use Enbrel 
Possible side effects 
How to store Enbrel 
Contents of the pack and other information 
Instructions for use 
1.  What Enbrel is and what it is used for 
Enbrel is a medicine that is made from two human proteins. It blocks the activity of another protein in 
the body that causes inflammation. Enbrel works by reducing the inflammation associated with certain 
diseases. 
In adults (aged 18 and over), Enbrel can be used for moderate or severe rheumatoid arthritis, 
psoriatic arthritis, severe axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis, and moderate 
or severe psoriasis – in each case usually when other widely used treatments have not worked well 
enough or are not suitable for you. 
For rheumatoid arthritis, Enbrel is usually used in combination with methotrexate, although it may 
also be used alone if treatment with methotrexate is unsuitable for you. Whether used alone or in 
combination with methotrexate, Enbrel can slow down the damage to your joints caused by the 
rheumatoid arthritis and improve your ability to do normal daily activities. 
For psoriatic arthritis patients with multiple joint involvement, Enbrel can improve your ability to do 
normal daily activities. For patients with multiple symmetrical painful or swollen joints (e.g., hands, 
wrists and feet), Enbrel can slow down the structural damage to those joints caused by the disease.  
Enbrel is also prescribed for the treatment of the following diseases in children and adolescents 
• 
For the following types of juvenile idiopathic arthritis when treatment with methotrexate has not 
worked well enough or is not suitable for them: 
238 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative) and extended oligoarthritis 
in patients from the age of 2 years 
Psoriatic arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years 
• 
• 
For enthesitis-related arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years when other widely used 
treatments have not worked well enough or are not suitable for them 
Severe psoriasis in patients from the age of 6 years who have had an inadequate response to (or 
are unable to take) phototherapies or other systemic therapies. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Enbrel  
Do not use Enbrel 
• 
• 
• 
if you, or the child you are caring for, are allergic to etanercept or any of the other ingredients of 
Enbrel (listed in section 6). If you or the child experience allergic reactions such as chest 
tightness, wheezing, dizziness or rash, do not inject more Enbrel, and contact your doctor 
immediately. 
if you or the child have, or are at risk of developing a serious blood infection called sepsis. If 
you are not sure, please contact your doctor. 
if you or the child have an infection of any kind. If you are not sure, please talk to your doctor. 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before taking Enbrel. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Allergic reactions: If you or the child experience allergic reactions such as chest tightness, 
wheezing, dizziness or rash, do not inject more Enbrel, and contact your doctor immediately. 
Latex: The syringe rubber tip is made from latex (dry natural rubber). Contact your doctor 
before using Enbrel if the syringe will be handled by, or Enbrel will be given to, someone with a 
known or possible hypersensitivity (allergy) to latex. 
Infections/surgery: If you or the child develop a new infection, or are about to have any major 
surgery, your doctor may wish to monitor the treatment with Enbrel. 
Infections/diabetes: Tell your doctor if you or the child have a history of recurrent infections or 
suffer from diabetes or other conditions that increase the risk of infection. 
Infections/monitoring: Tell your doctor of any recent travel outside the European region. If you 
or the child develop symptoms of an infection such as fever, chills or cough, notify your doctor 
immediately. Your doctor may decide to continue to monitor you or the child for the presence of 
infections after you or the child stop using Enbrel. 
Tuberculosis: As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with Enbrel, your 
doctor will check for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Enbrel. This may 
include a thorough medical history, a chest X-ray and a tuberculin test. The conduct of these 
tests should be recorded on the Patient Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor if you 
or the child have ever had tuberculosis, or have been in close contact with someone who has had 
tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (such as persistent cough, weight loss, listlessness, 
mild fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy, tell your doctor immediately. 
Hepatitis B: Tell your doctor if you or the child have or have ever had hepatitis B. Your doctor 
should test for the presence of hepatitis B infection before you or the child begin treatment with 
Enbrel. Treatment with Enbrel may result in reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who have 
previously been infected with the hepatitis B virus. If this occurs, you should stop using Enbrel. 
Hepatitis C: Tell your doctor if you or the child have hepatitis C. Your doctor may wish to 
monitor the treatment with Enbrel in case the infection worsens. 
239 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Blood disorders: Seek medical advice immediately if you or the child have any signs or 
symptoms such as persistent fever, sore throat, bruising, bleeding or paleness. Such symptoms 
may point to the existence of potentially life-threatening blood disorders, which may require 
discontinuation of Enbrel. 
Nervous system and eye disorders: Tell your doctor if you or the child have multiple sclerosis, 
optic neuritis (inflammation of the nerves of the eyes) or transverse myelitis (inflammation of 
the spinal cord). Your doctor will determine if Enbrel is an appropriate treatment. 
Congestive heart failure: Tell your doctor if you or the child have a history of congestive heart 
failure, because Enbrel needs to be used with caution under these circumstances. 
Cancer: Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had lymphoma (a type of blood cancer) or 
any other cancer before you are given Enbrel. 
Patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis, who have had the disease for a long time, may be at 
higher than average risk of developing lymphoma. 
Children and adults taking Enbrel may have an increased risk of developing lymphoma or 
another cancer. 
Some children and teenage patients who have received Enbrel or other medicines that work the 
same way as Enbrel have developed cancers, including unusual types, which sometimes resulted 
in death. 
Some patients receiving Enbrel have developed skin cancers. Tell your doctor if you or the child 
develop any change in the appearance of the skin or growths on the skin. 
Chickenpox: Tell your doctor if you or the child are exposed to chickenpox when using Enbrel. 
Your doctor will determine if preventive treatment for chickenpox is appropriate. 
Alcohol abuse: Enbrel should not be used for the treatment of hepatitis related to alcohol abuse. 
Please tell your doctor if you or the child in your care have a history of alcohol abuse. 
•  Wegener’s granulomatosis: Enbrel is not recommended for the treatment of Wegener’s 
• 
granulomatosis, a rare inflammatory disease. If you or the child in your care have Wegener’s 
granulomatosis, talk to your doctor. 
Anti-diabetic medicines: Tell your doctor if you or the child have diabetes or are taking 
medicines to treat diabetes. Your doctor may decide if you or the child need less anti-diabetic 
medicine while taking Enbrel. 
Children and adolescents  
Vaccinations: If possible, children should be up to date with all vaccinations before using Enbrel. 
Some vaccines, such as oral polio vaccine, should not be given while using Enbrel. Please consult 
your doctor before you or the child receive any vaccines. 
Enbrel should not normally be used in children with polyarthritis or extended oligoarthritis below the 
age of 2 years, or in children with enthesitis-related arthritis or psoriatic arthritis below the age of 
12 years, or in children with psoriasis below the age of 6 years. 
Other medicines and Enbrel 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you or the child are taking, have recently taken or might take any 
other medicines (including anakinra, abatacept or sulfasalazine), even those not prescribed by the 
doctor. You or the child should not use Enbrel with medicines that contain the active substance 
anakinra or abatacept. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Enbrel should only be used during pregnancy if clearly needed. You should consult your doctor if you 
become pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby.  
If you received Enbrel during pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk of getting an infection. In 
addition, one study found more birth defects when the mother had received Enbrel in pregnancy, 
240 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
compared with mothers who had not received Enbrel or other similar medicines (TNF-antagonists), 
but there was no particular kind of birth defect reported. Another study found no increased risk of birth 
defects when the mother had received Enbrel in pregnancy. Your doctor will help you to decide 
whether the benefits of treatment outweigh the potential risk to your baby. 
Talk to your doctor if you want to breastfeed while on Enbrel treatment. It is important that you tell 
your baby’s doctors and other healthcare professionals about the use of Enbrel during pregnancy and 
breastfeeding before your baby receives any vaccine. 
Driving and using machines 
The use of Enbrel is not expected to affect the ability to drive or use machines. 
3.  How to use Enbrel 
Always use this medicine exactly as the doctor has told you. Check with the doctor or pharmacist if 
you are not sure. 
If you feel that the effect of Enbrel is too strong or too weak, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. 
Dosing for adult patients (aged 18 years or over) 
Rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis 
The usual dose is 25 mg given twice a week or 50 mg once a week as an injection under the skin. 
However, your doctor may determine an alternative frequency at which to inject Enbrel.  
Plaque psoriasis 
The usual dose is 25 mg twice a week or 50 mg once a week.   
Alternatively, 50 mg may be given twice a week for up to 12 weeks, followed by 25 mg twice a week 
or 50 mg once a week.  
Your doctor will decide how long you should take Enbrel and whether retreatment is needed based on 
your response. If Enbrel has no effect on your condition after 12 weeks, your doctor may tell you to 
stop taking this medicine. 
Use in children and adolescents 
The appropriate dose and frequency of dosing for the child or adolescent will depend on body weight 
and disease. The doctor will provide you with detailed directions for preparing and measuring the 
appropriate dose. 
For polyarthritis or extended oligoarthritis in patients from the age of 2 years, or enthesitis-related 
arthritis or psoriatic arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years, the usual dose is 0.4 mg of Enbrel 
per kg bodyweight (up to a maximum of 25 mg) given twice weekly, or 0.8 mg of Enbrel per kg of 
bodyweight (up to a maximum of 50 mg) given once weekly. 
For psoriasis in patients from the age of 6 years, the usual dose is 0.8 mg of Enbrel per kg bodyweight 
(up to a maximum of 50 mg), and should be given once weekly. If Enbrel has no effect on the child’s 
condition after 12 weeks, your doctor may tell you to stop using this medicine. 
241 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Method and route of administration 
Enbrel is administered by an injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection). 
Enbrel can be taken with or without food or drink. 
The powder must be dissolved before use. Detailed instructions on how to prepare and inject 
Enbrel are provided in section 7, “Instructions for use.” Do not mix the Enbrel solution with any 
other medicine. 
To help you remember, it may be helpful to write in a diary which day(s) of the week Enbrel should be 
used. 
If you use more Enbrel than you should 
If you have used more Enbrel than you should (either by injecting too much on a single occasion or by 
using it too frequently), talk to a doctor or pharmacist immediately. Always have the outer carton of 
the medicine with you, even if it is empty. 
If you forget to inject Enbrel 
If you forget a dose, you should inject it as soon as you remember, unless the next scheduled dose is 
the next day; in which case you should skip the missed dose. Then continue to inject the medicine on 
the usual day(s). If you do not remember until the day that the next injection is due, do not take a 
double dose (two doses on the same day) to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop using Enbrel  
Your symptoms may return upon discontinuation.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Allergic reactions 
If any of the following happen, do not inject more Enbrel. Tell your doctor immediately, or go to the 
casualty department at your nearest hospital. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Trouble swallowing or breathing 
Swelling of the face, throat, hands, or feet 
Feeling nervous or anxious, throbbing sensations, sudden reddening of the skin and/or a warm 
feeling 
Severe rash, itching, or hives (elevated patches of red or pale skin that often itch) 
Serious allergic reactions are rare. However, any of the above symptoms may indicate an allergic 
reaction to Enbrel, so you should seek immediate medical attention. 
242 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious side effects 
If you notice any of the following, you or the child may need urgent medical attention. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Signs of serious infections, such as high fever that may be accompanied by cough, shortness of 
breath, chills, weakness, or a hot, red, tender, sore area on the skin or joints 
Signs of blood disorders, such as bleeding, bruising, or paleness 
Signs of nerve disorders, such as numbness or tingling, changes in vision, eye pain, or onset of 
weakness in an arm or leg 
Signs of heart failure or worsening heart failure, such as fatigue or shortness of breath with 
activity, swelling in the ankles, a feeling of fullness in the neck or abdomen, night-time 
shortness of breath or coughing, bluish colour of the nails or the lips 
Signs of cancers: Cancers may affect any part of the body including the skin and blood, and 
possible signs will depend on the type and location of the cancer. These signs may include 
weight loss, fever, swelling (with or without pain), persistent cough, presence of lumps or 
growths on the skin 
Signs of autoimmune reactions (where antibodies are made that may harm normal tissues in 
the body) such as pain, itching, weakness, and abnormal breathing, thinking, sensation, or vision 
Signs of lupus or lupus-like syndrome, such as weight changes, persistent rash, fever, joint or 
muscle pain, or fatigue 
Signs of inflammation of the blood vessels such as pain, fever, redness or warmth of the skin, 
or itching. 
These are rare or uncommon side effects, but are serious conditions (some of which may rarely be 
fatal). If these signs occur, tell your doctor immediately, or visit the casualty department at your 
nearest hospital. 
The known side effects of Enbrel include the following in groups of decreasing frequency: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
Infections (including colds, sinusitis, bronchitis, urinary tract infections and skin infections); 
injection site reactions (including bleeding, bruising, redness, itching, pain, and swelling) (these 
do not occur as often after the first month of treatment; some patients have developed a reaction 
at an injection site that was recently used); and headache. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
Allergic reactions; fever; rash; itching; antibodies directed against normal tissue (autoantibody 
formation). 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
Serious infections (including pneumonia, deep skin infections, joint infections, blood infection, 
and infections at various sites); worsening of congestive heart failure; low red blood cell count, 
low white blood cell count, low neutrophil (a type of white blood cell) count; low blood platelet 
count; skin cancer (excluding melanoma); localised swelling of the skin (angioedema); hives 
(elevated patches of red or pale skin that often itch); eye inflammation; psoriasis (new or 
worsening); inflammation of the blood vessels affecting multiple organs; elevated liver blood 
tests (in patients also receiving methotrexate treatment, the frequency of elevated liver blood 
tests is common); abdominal cramps and pain, diarrhoea, weight loss or blood in the stool (signs 
of bowel problems). 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
Serious allergic reactions (including severe localised swelling of the skin and wheezing); 
lymphoma (a type of blood cancer); leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow); 
melanoma (a type of skin cancer); combined low platelet, red, and white blood cell count; 
nervous system disorders (with severe muscle weakness and signs and symptoms similar to 
243 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
those of multiple sclerosis or inflammation of the nerves of the eyes or spinal cord); 
tuberculosis; new onset congestive heart failure; seizures; lupus or lupus-like syndrome 
(symptoms may include persistent rash, fever, joint pain, and tiredness); skin rash, which may 
lead to severe blistering and peeling of the skin; lichenoid reactions (itchy reddish-purple skin 
rash and/or threadlike white-grey lines on mucous membranes); inflammation of the liver 
caused by the body's own immune system (autoimmune hepatitis; in patients also receiving 
methotrexate treatment, the frequency is uncommon); immune disorder that can affect the lungs, 
skin and lymph nodes (sarcoidosis); inflammation or scarring of the lungs (in patients also 
receiving methotrexate treatment, the frequency of inflammation or scarring of the lungs is 
uncommon). 
• 
• 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): failure of the bone marrow to produce crucial 
blood cells. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): Merkel cell carcinoma (a 
type of skin cancer); Kaposi’s sarcoma (a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes 
virus 8. Kaposi’s sarcoma most commonly appear as purple lesions on the skin); excessive 
activation of white blood cells associated with inflammation (macrophage activation 
syndrome); recurrence of hepatitis B (a liver infection); damage to the tiny filters inside your 
kidneys leading to poor kidney function (glomerulonephritis), worsening of a condition called 
dermatomyositis (muscle inflammation and weakness with an accompanying skin rash). 
Additional side effects in children and adolescents 
The side effects and their frequencies seen in children and adolescents are similar to those described 
above. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5.  How to store Enbrel 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and the label after “EXP”. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Before preparing the Enbrel solution, Enbrel may be stored outside of the refrigerator at temperatures 
up to a maximum of 25°C for a single period of up to four weeks; after which, it should not be 
refrigerated again. Enbrel should be discarded if not used within four weeks after removal from the 
refrigerator. It is recommended that you record the date that Enbrel is removed from the refrigerator 
and the date after which Enbrel should be discarded (no more than 4 weeks following the removal 
from the refrigerator). 
After preparing the Enbrel solution, immediate use is recommended. However, the solution may be 
used for up to 6 hours when stored at temperatures of up to 25°C.  
Do not use this medicine if you notice the solution is not clear or contains particles. The solution 
should be clear, colourless to pale yellow or pale brown, with no lumps or flakes or particles. 
244 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carefully dispose of any Enbrel solution that has not been injected within 6 hours. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information  
What Enbrel contains 
The active substance in Enbrel is etanercept. Each vial of Enbrel 25 mg contains 25 mg of etanercept.   
The other ingredients are:  
Powder: Mannitol (E421), sucrose and trometamol 
Solvent: Water for injections 
What Enbrel looks like and contents of the pack 
Enbrel 25 mg is supplied as a white powder and solvent for solution for injection (powder for 
injection). Each pack contains 4, 8 or 24 single dose vials, 4, 8 or 24 pre-filled syringes of water for 
injections, 4, 8 or 24 needles, 4, 8 or 24 vial adaptors and 8, 16 or 48 alcohol swabs. Not all pack sizes 
may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
Manufacturer 
Pfizer Manufacturing Belgium NV 
Rijksweg 12, 
2870 Puurs-Sint-Amands 
Belgium 
For any information about this medicinal product, please contact the local representative of the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Pfizer NV/SA 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11 
Česká Republika 
Pfizer, spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +420-283-004-111 
Danmark 
Pfizer ApS 
Tlf: +45 44 201 100 
Deutschland 
Pfizer Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000 
Kύπρος 
PFIZER EΛΛAΣ A.E. (CYPRUS BRANCH)  
Tηλ: +357 22 817690 
Magyarország 
Pfizer Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 488 3700 
Malta 
Vivian Corporation Ltd. 
Tel: +35621 344610 
Nederland 
Pfizer bv 
Tel: +31 (0)800 63 34 636 
245 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
България  
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ,  
Клон България  
Teл: +359 2 970 4333 
Norge 
Pfizer AS 
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00 
Eesti 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 666 7500 
Österreich 
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0 
Ελλάδα 
PFIZER EΛΛAΣ A.E. 
Τηλ.: +30 210 67 85 800 
España 
Pfizer, S.L. 
Télf: +34 91 490 99 00 
France 
Pfizer 
Tél +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40 
Hrvatska 
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 3908 777 
Ireland 
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland 
Tel: +1800 633 363 (toll free) 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Tel: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Pfizer S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21 
Polska 
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00 
Portugal 
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda. 
Tel: (+351) 21 423 55 00 
România 
Pfizer Romania S.R.L 
Tel: +40 (0) 21 207 28 00 
Slovenija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, Pfizer, podružnica  
za svetovanje s področja farmacevtske  
dejavnosti, Ljubljana  
Tel: +386 (0)1 52 11 400 
Slovenská Republika 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka  
Tel: +421 2 3355 5500 
Suomi/Finland 
Pfizer Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 430 040 
Sverige  
Pfizer AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00 
Latvija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā 
Tel. +371 67035775 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Pfizer Limited 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Lietuva 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas Lietuvoje 
Tel. +3705 2514000 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
246 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
Instructions for use 
This section is divided into the following sub-sections: 
Introduction 
Setting up for an injection 
Preparing the Enbrel dose for injection  
Adding solvent 
a. 
b. 
c. 
d. 
e.  Withdrawing the Enbrel solution from the vial 
f. 
g. 
h. 
i. 
Placing the needle on the syringe 
Choosing an injection site  
Preparing the injection site and injecting the Enbrel solution 
Disposing of supplies 
a. 
Introduction 
The following instructions explain how to prepare and inject Enbrel. Please read the instructions 
carefully and follow them step by step. You will be instructed by your doctor or his/her assistant on 
the techniques of self-injection or on giving an injection to a child. Do not attempt to administer an 
injection until you are sure that you understand how to prepare and give the injection. 
This injection should not be mixed with any other medicine. 
b. 
Setting up for an injection 
•  Wash your hands thoroughly. 
• 
• 
Select a clean well-lit, flat working surface. 
The dose tray should contain the items listed below. (If not, don’t use the dose tray and consult 
your pharmacist). Use only the items listed. Do NOT use any other syringe. 
1 Enbrel vial 
1 Pre-filled syringe containing clear, colourless solvent (water for injections) 
1 Needle 
1 Vial adaptor 
2 Alcohol swabs 
Inspect the expiry dates on both the vial label and the syringe label. They should not be used 
after the month and year shown. 
Preparing the Enbrel dose for injection 
Remove the contents of the tray 
Remove the plastic cap from the Enbrel vial (see Diagram 1). Do NOT remove the grey stopper 
or aluminium ring around the top of the vial. 
• 
c. 
• 
• 
Diagram 1 
• 
Use a new alcohol swab to clean the grey stopper on the Enbrel vial. After cleaning, do not 
touch the stopper with your hands or allow it to touch any surface. 
247 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Place the vial upright on a clean, flat surface. 
Remove the paper backing from the vial adaptor package. 
• 
• 
•  While still in the plastic package, place the vial adaptor on top of the Enbrel vial so that the vial 
adaptor spike is centered within the raised circle on top of the vial stopper (see Diagram 2). 
Hold the vial firmly on the flat surface with one hand. With the other hand, push STRAIGHT 
DOWN FIRMLY on the adaptor package until you feel the adaptor spike penetrate the vial 
stopper and FEEL AND HEAR THE ADAPTOR RIM LOCK INTO PLACE (see Diagram 
3). Do NOT push down the adaptor at an angle (see Diagram 4). It is important that the vial 
adaptor spike completely penetrates the vial stopper. 
• 
Diagram 2. 
Diagram 3. 
Diagram 4. 
CORRECT 
INCORRECT 
•  While holding the vial in one hand, remove the plastic packaging from the vial adaptor (see 
Diagram 5). 
Diagram 5. 
• 
• 
• 
Remove the protective cover from the syringe tip by breaking the white cap along the 
perforation. This is done by holding the collar of the white cap while grasping the end of the 
white cap with the other hand and bending it down and then up until it is broken (see Diagram 
6). Do NOT remove the white collar that remains on the syringe. 
Diagram 6 
Do not use the syringe if this perforation is already broken. Start again with another dose tray. 
Holding the glass barrel of the syringe (not the white collar) in one hand, and the vial adaptor 
(not the vial) in the other, connect the syringe to the vial adaptor by inserting the tip into the 
opening and turn clockwise until completely secured (see Diagram 7). 
248 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diagram 7 
d. 
Adding solvent 
•  While holding the vial upright on the flat surface, push the plunger VERY SLOWLY until all 
• 
the solvent is in the vial. This will help to reduce foaming (lots of bubbles) (see Diagram 8). 
Once the solvent is added to the Enbrel, the plunger may move up by itself. This is due to air 
pressure and should not be of concern. 
Diagram 8 
•  With the syringe still attached, gently move the vial in circles a few times, to dissolve the 
powder (see Diagram 9). Do NOT shake the vial. Wait until all the powder dissolves (usually 
less than 10 minutes). The solution should be clear and colourless to pale yellow or pale brown, 
with no lumps, flakes, or particles. Some white foam may remain in the vial  this is normal. Do 
NOT use Enbrel if all the powder in the vial is not dissolved within 10 minutes. Start again with 
another dose tray. 
Diagram 9 
e.  Withdrawing the Enbrel solution from the vial 
•  With the syringe still attached to the vial and vial adaptor, hold the vial upside down at eye 
level. Push the plunger all the way into the syringe (see Diagram 10). 
249 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diagram 10 
• 
Then, slowly pull the plunger back to draw the liquid into the syringe (see Diagram 11). For 
adult patients, withdraw the entire volume. For children, remove only the portion of liquid as 
directed by your child’s doctor. After you have withdrawn the Enbrel from the vial, you may 
have some air in the syringe. Do not be concerned, as you will remove the air in a later step. 
Diagram 11 
•  With the vial held upside down, unscrew the syringe from the vial adaptor by turning it 
anti-clockwise (see Diagram 12). 
Diagram 12 
• 
Place the filled syringe on the clean, flat surface. Make sure that the tip does not touch anything. 
Be careful not to push down on the plunger. 
(Note: After you have completed these steps, a small amount of liquid may remain in the vial. This is 
normal.) 
f. 
• 
• 
• 
Placing the needle on the syringe 
The needle has been placed in a plastic container to keep it sterile. 
To open the plastic container, hold the short, wide end in one hand. Place your other hand on the 
longer portion of the container. 
To break the seal, bend the larger end down and then up until broken (see Diagram 13). 
250 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diagram 13 
Once the seal has been broken, remove the short, wide end of the plastic container. 
The needle will remain in the long part of the package. 
• 
• 
•  While holding the needle and container in one hand, pick up the syringe and insert the syringe 
tip into the needle opening. 
Attach the syringe to the needle by turning it clockwise until completely secured (see Diagram 
• 
14). 
Diagram 14 
• 
Remove the needle cover by firmly pulling it straight off the syringe taking care not to touch 
the needle or allow the needle to touch any surfaces (see Diagram 15). Be careful not to bend or 
twist the cover during removal to avoid damage to the needle. 
Diagram 15 
•  While holding the syringe upright, remove any air bubbles by slowly pushing on the plunger 
until the air is removed (see Diagram 16). 
Diagram 16 
251 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
g. 
• 
Choosing an injection site 
The three recommended injection sites for Enbrel include: (1) the front of the middle thighs; (2) 
the abdomen, except for the 5 cm area right around the navel; and (3) the outer area of the upper 
arms (see Diagram 17). If you are self injecting, you should not use the outer area of the upper 
arms. 
Diagram 17 
• 
• 
A different site should be used for each new injection. Each new injection should be given at 
least 3 cm from an old site. Do NOT inject into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red, or 
hard. Avoid areas with scars or stretch marks. (It may be helpful to keep notes on the location of 
the previous injections.) 
If you or the child have psoriasis, you should try not to inject directly into any raised, thick, red, 
or scaly skin patches (“psoriasis skin lesions”). 
h. 
Preparing the injection site and injecting the Enbrel solution 
•  Wipe the site where Enbrel is to be injected with an alcohol swab, using a circular motion. Do 
NOT touch this area again before giving the injection. 
•  When the cleaned area of skin has dried, pinch and hold it firmly with one hand. With the other 
hand, hold the syringe like a pencil. 
•  With a quick, short motion, push the needle all the way into the skin at an angle between 45° 
and 90° (see Diagram 18). With experience, you will find the angle that is most comfortable for 
you or the child. Be careful not to push the needle into the skin too slowly, or with great force. 
Diagram 18 
•  When the needle is completely inserted into the skin, release the skin that you are holding. With 
your free hand, hold the syringe near its base to stabilise it. Then push the plunger to inject all of 
the solution at a slow, steady rate (see Diagram 19). 
252 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diagram 19 
•  When the syringe is empty, remove the needle from the skin; being careful to keep it at the same 
• 
i. 
• 
angle it was when it was inserted. 
Press a cotton ball over the injection site for 10 seconds. Slight bleeding may occur. Do NOT 
rub the injection site. A bandage is optional. 
Disposing of supplies 
The syringe and needles should NEVER be re-used. Dispose of the needles and syringe as 
instructed by your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
If you have any questions, please talk to a doctor, nurse or pharmacist who is familiar with 
Enbrel. 
253 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
etanercept 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Card, which contains important safety information that 
you need to be aware of before and during treatment with Enbrel. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you or a child in your care. Do not pass it on to others. It 
may harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours or those of the child you are 
caring for. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
• 
• 
What is in this leaflet:  
Information in this leaflet is organised under the following 7 sections: 
1.  What Enbrel is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Enbrel 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
How to use Enbrel 
Possible side effects 
How to store Enbrel 
Contents of the pack and other information 
Instructions for use 
1.  What Enbrel is and what it is used for 
Enbrel is a medicine that is made from two human proteins. It blocks the activity of another protein in 
the body that causes inflammation. Enbrel works by reducing the inflammation associated with certain 
diseases. 
In adults (aged 18 and over), Enbrel can be used for moderate or severe rheumatoid arthritis, 
psoriatic arthritis, severe axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis, and moderate 
or severe psoriasis – in each case usually when other widely used treatments have not worked well 
enough or are not suitable for you. 
For rheumatoid arthritis, Enbrel is usually used in combination with methotrexate, although it may 
also be used alone if treatment with methotrexate is unsuitable for you. Whether used alone or in 
combination with methotrexate, Enbrel can slow down the damage to your joints caused by the 
rheumatoid arthritis and improve your ability to do normal daily activities. 
For psoriatic arthritis patients with multiple joint involvement, Enbrel can improve your ability to do 
normal daily activities. For patients with multiple symmetrical painful or swollen joints (e.g., hands, 
wrists and feet), Enbrel can slow down the structural damage to those joints caused by the disease.  
254 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enbrel is also prescribed for the treatment of the following diseases in children and adolescents 
• 
• 
• 
For the following types of juvenile idiopathic arthritis when treatment with methotrexate has not 
worked well enough or is not suitable for them: 
• 
• 
Polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative) and extended oligoarthritis 
in patients from the age of 2 years 
Psoriatic arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years 
For enthesitis-related arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years when other widely used 
treatments have not worked well enough or are not suitable for them 
Severe psoriasis in patients from the age of 6 years who have had an inadequate response to (or 
are unable to take) phototherapies or other systemic therapies. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Enbrel  
Do not use Enbrel 
• 
• 
• 
if you, or the child you are caring for, are allergic to etanercept or any of the other ingredients of 
Enbrel (listed in section 6). If you or the child experience allergic reactions such as chest 
tightness, wheezing, dizziness or rash, do not inject more Enbrel, and contact your doctor 
immediately. 
if you or the child have, or are at risk of developing a serious blood infection called sepsis. If 
you are not sure, please contact your doctor. 
if you or the child have an infection of any kind. If you are not sure, please talk to your doctor. 
Warning and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before taking Enbrel. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Allergic reactions: If you or the child experience allergic reactions such as chest tightness, 
wheezing, dizziness or rash, do not inject more Enbrel, and contact your doctor immediately. 
Infections/surgery: If you or the child develop a new infection, or are about to have any major 
surgery, your doctor may wish to monitor the treatment with Enbrel. 
Infections/diabetes: Tell your doctor if you or the child have a history of recurrent infections or 
suffer from diabetes or other conditions that increase the risk of infection. 
Infections/monitoring: Tell your doctor of any recent travel outside the European region. If you 
or the child develop symptoms of an infection such as fever, chills or cough, notify your doctor 
immediately. Your doctor may decide to continue to monitor you or the child for the presence of 
infections after you or the child stop using Enbrel. 
Tuberculosis: As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with Enbrel, your 
doctor will check for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Enbrel. This may 
include a thorough medical history, a chest X-ray and a tuberculin test. The conduct of these 
tests should be recorded on the Patient Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor if you 
or the child have ever had tuberculosis, or have been in close contact with someone who has had 
tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (such as persistent cough, weight loss, listlessness, 
mild fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy, tell your doctor immediately. 
Hepatitis B: Tell your doctor if you or the child have or have ever had hepatitis B. Your doctor 
should test for the presence of hepatitis B infection before you or the child begin treatment with 
Enbrel. Treatment with Enbrel may result in reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who have 
previously been infected with the hepatitis B virus. If this occurs, you should stop using Enbrel. 
255 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Hepatitis C: Tell your doctor if you or the child have hepatitis C. Your doctor may wish to 
monitor the treatment with Enbrel in case the infection worsens. 
Blood disorders: Seek medical advice immediately if you or the child have any signs or 
symptoms such as persistent fever, sore throat, bruising, bleeding or paleness. Such symptoms 
may point to the existence of potentially life-threatening blood disorders, which may require 
discontinuation of Enbrel. 
Nervous system and eye disorders: Tell your doctor if you or the child have multiple sclerosis, 
optic neuritis (inflammation of the nerves of the eyes) or transverse myelitis (inflammation of 
the spinal cord). Your doctor will determine if Enbrel is an appropriate treatment. 
Congestive heart failure: Tell your doctor if you or the child have a history of congestive heart 
failure, because Enbrel needs to be used with caution under these circumstances. 
Cancer: Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had lymphoma (a type of blood cancer) or 
any other cancer before you are given Enbrel. 
Patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis, who have had the disease for a long time, may be at 
higher than average risk of developing lymphoma. 
Children and adults taking Enbrel may have an increased risk of developing lymphoma or 
another cancer. 
Some children and teenage patients who have received Enbrel or other medicines that work the 
same way as Enbrel have developed cancers, including unusual types, which sometimes resulted 
in death. 
Some patients receiving Enbrel have developed skin cancers. Tell your doctor if you or the child 
develop any change in the appearance of the skin or growths on the skin. 
Chickenpox: Tell your doctor if you or the child are exposed to chickenpox when using Enbrel. 
Your doctor will determine if preventive treatment for chickenpox is appropriate. 
Latex: The needle cover is made from latex (dry natural rubber). Contact your doctor before 
using Enbrel if the needle cover will be handled by, or Enbrel will be given to, someone with a 
known or possible hypersensitivity (allergy) to latex. 
Alcohol abuse: Enbrel should not be used for the treatment of hepatitis related to alcohol abuse. 
Please tell your doctor if you or the child in your care have a history of alcohol abuse. 
•  Wegener’s granulomatosis: Enbrel is not recommended for the treatment of Wegener’s 
• 
granulomatosis, a rare inflammatory disease. If you or the child in your care have Wegener’s 
granulomatosis, talk to your doctor. 
Anti-diabetic medicines: Tell your doctor if you or the child have diabetes or are taking 
medicines to treat diabetes. Your doctor may decide if you or the child need less anti-diabetic 
medicine while taking Enbrel. 
Children and adolescents  
Vaccinations: If possible, children should be up to date with all vaccinations before using Enbrel. 
Some vaccines, such as oral polio vaccine, should not be given while using Enbrel. Please consult 
your doctor before you or the child receive any vaccines. 
Enbrel should not normally be used in children with polyarthritis or extended oligoarthritis below the 
age of 2 years, or in children with enthesitis-related arthritis or psoriatic arthritis below the age of 12 
years, or in children with psoriasis below the age of 6 years. 
Other medicines and Enbrel 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you or the child are taking, have recently taken or might take any 
other medicines (including anakinra, abatacept or sulfasalazine), even those not prescribed by the 
doctor. You or the child should not use Enbrel with medicines that contain the active substance 
anakinra or abatacept. 
256 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Enbrel should only be used during pregnancy if clearly needed. You should consult your doctor if you 
become pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby.  
If you received Enbrel during pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk of getting an infection. In 
addition, one study found more birth defects when the mother had received Enbrel in pregnancy, 
compared with mothers who had not received Enbrel or other similar medicines (TNF-antagonists), 
but there was no particular kind of birth defect reported. Another study found no increased risk of birth 
defects when the mother had received Enbrel in pregnancy. Your doctor will help you to decide 
whether the benefits of treatment outweigh the potential risk to your baby. 
Talk to your doctor if you want to breastfeed while on Enbrel treatment. It is important that you tell 
your baby’s doctors and other healthcare professionals about the use of Enbrel during pregnancy and 
breastfeeding before your baby receives any vaccine. 
Driving and using machines 
The use of Enbrel is not expected to affect the ability to drive or use machines. 
Enbrel contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dosage unit, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3.  How to use Enbrel 
Always use this medicine exactly as the doctor has told you. Check with the doctor or pharmacist if 
you are not sure. 
If you feel that the effect of Enbrel is too strong or too weak, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. 
The pre-filled syringe is available in dose strengths of 25 mg and 50 mg.  
Dosing for adult patients (aged 18 years or over) 
Rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis 
The usual dose is 25 mg given twice a week or 50 mg once a week as an injection under the skin. 
However, your doctor may determine an alternative frequency at which to inject Enbrel.  
Plaque psoriasis 
The usual dose is 25 mg twice a week or 50 mg once a week.   
Alternatively, 50 mg may be given twice a week for up to 12 weeks, followed by 25 mg twice a week 
or 50 mg once a week.  
Your doctor will decide how long you should take Enbrel and whether retreatment is needed based on 
your response. If Enbrel has no effect on your condition after 12 weeks, your doctor may tell you to 
stop taking this medicine. 
257 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use in children and adolescents 
The appropriate dose and frequency of dosing for the child or adolescent will depend on body weight 
and disease. Your doctor will determine the correct dose for the child and will prescribe an appropriate 
strength of Enbrel (10 mg, 25 mg or 50 mg). 
For polyarthritis or extended oligoarthritis in patients from the age of 2 years, or enthesitis-related 
arthritis or psoriatic arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years, the usual dose is 0.4 mg of Enbrel 
per kg bodyweight (up to a maximum of 25 mg) given twice weekly, or 0.8 mg of Enbrel per kg of 
bodyweight (up to a maximum of 50 mg) given once weekly. 
For psoriasis in patients from the age of 6 years, the usual dose is 0.8 mg of Enbrel per kg bodyweight 
(up to a maximum of 50 mg), and should be given once weekly. If Enbrel has no effect on the child’s 
condition after 12 weeks, your doctor may tell you to stop using this medicine. 
The doctor will provide you with detailed directions for preparing and measuring the appropriate dose. 
Method and route of administration 
Enbrel is administered by an injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection). 
Enbrel can be taken with or without food or drink. 
Detailed instructions on how to inject Enbrel are provided in section 7, “Instructions for use.” 
Do not mix the Enbrel solution with any other medicine. 
To help you remember, it may be helpful to write in a diary which day(s) of the week Enbrel should be 
used. 
If you use more Enbrel than you should 
If you have used more Enbrel than you should (either by injecting too much on a single occasion or by 
using it too frequently), talk to a doctor or pharmacist immediately. Always have the outer carton of 
the medicine with you, even if it is empty. 
If you forget to inject Enbrel 
If you forget a dose, you should inject it as soon as you remember, unless the next scheduled dose is 
the next day; in which case you should skip the missed dose. Then continue to inject the medicine on 
the usual day(s). If you do not remember until the day that the next injection is due, do not take a 
double dose (two doses on the same day) to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop using Enbrel  
Your symptoms may return upon discontinuation.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
258 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allergic reactions 
If any of the following happen, do not inject more Enbrel. Tell your doctor immediately, or go to the 
casualty department at your nearest hospital. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Trouble swallowing or breathing 
Swelling of the face, throat, hands, or feet 
Feeling nervous or anxious, throbbing sensations, sudden reddening of the skin and/or a warm 
feeling 
Severe rash, itching, or hives (elevated patches of red or pale skin that often itch) 
Serious allergic reactions are rare. However, any of the above symptoms may indicate an allergic 
reaction to Enbrel, so you should seek immediate medical attention. 
Serious side effects 
If you notice any of the following, you or the child may need urgent medical attention. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Signs of serious infections, such as high fever that may be accompanied by cough, shortness of 
breath, chills, weakness, or a hot, red, tender, sore area on the skin or joints 
Signs of blood disorders, such as bleeding, bruising, or paleness 
Signs of nerve disorders, such as numbness or tingling, changes in vision, eye pain, or onset of 
weakness in an arm or leg 
Signs of heart failure or worsening heart failure, such as fatigue or shortness of breath with 
activity, swelling in the ankles, a feeling of fullness in the neck or abdomen, night-time 
shortness of breath or coughing, bluish colour of the nails or the lips 
Signs of cancers: Cancers may affect any part of the body including the skin and blood, and 
possible signs will depend on the type and location of the cancer. These signs may include 
weight loss, fever, swelling (with or without pain), persistent cough, presence of lumps or 
growths on the skin 
Signs of autoimmune reactions (where antibodies are made that may harm normal tissues in 
the body) such as pain, itching, weakness, and abnormal breathing, thinking, sensation, or vision 
Signs of lupus or lupus-like syndrome, such as weight changes, persistent rash, fever, joint or 
muscle pain, or fatigue 
Signs of inflammation of the blood vessels such as pain, fever, redness or warmth of the skin, 
or itching. 
These are rare or uncommon side effects, but are serious conditions (some of which may rarely be 
fatal). If these signs occur, tell your doctor immediately, or visit the casualty department at your 
nearest hospital. 
The known side effects of Enbrel include the following in groups of decreasing frequency: 
• 
• 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
Infections (including colds, sinusitis, bronchitis, urinary tract infections and skin infections); 
injection site reactions (including bleeding, bruising, redness, itching, pain, and swelling) (these 
do not occur as often after the first month of treatment; some patients have developed a reaction 
at an injection site that was recently used); and headache. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
Allergic reactions; fever; rash; itching; antibodies directed against normal tissue (autoantibody 
formation). 
259 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
Serious infections (including pneumonia, deep skin infections, joint infections, blood infection, 
and infections at various sites); worsening of congestive heart failure; low red blood cell count, 
low white blood cell count, low neutrophil (a type of white blood cell) count; low blood platelet 
count; skin cancer (excluding melanoma); localised swelling of the skin (angioedema); hives 
(elevated patches of red or pale skin that often itch); eye inflammation; psoriasis (new or 
worsening); inflammation of the blood vessels affecting multiple organs; elevated liver blood 
tests (in patients also receiving methotrexate treatment, the frequency of elevated liver blood 
tests is common); abdominal cramps and pain, diarrhoea, weight loss or blood in the stool (signs 
of bowel problems). 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
Serious allergic reactions (including severe localised swelling of the skin and wheezing); 
lymphoma (a type of blood cancer); leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow); 
melanoma (a type of skin cancer); combined low platelet, red, and white blood cell count; 
nervous system disorders (with severe muscle weakness and signs and symptoms similar to 
those of multiple sclerosis or inflammation of the nerves of the eyes or spinal cord); 
tuberculosis; new onset congestive heart failure; seizures; lupus or lupus-like syndrome 
(symptoms may include persistent rash, fever, joint pain, and tiredness); skin rash, which may 
lead to severe blistering and peeling of the skin; lichenoid reactions (itchy reddish-purple skin 
rash and/or threadlike white-grey lines on mucous membranes); inflammation of the liver 
caused by the body's own immune system (autoimmune hepatitis; in patients also receiving 
methotrexate treatment, the frequency is uncommon); immune disorder that can affect the lungs, 
skin and lymph nodes (sarcoidosis); inflammation or scarring of the lungs (in patients also 
receiving methotrexate treatment, the frequency of inflammation or scarring of the lungs is 
uncommon). 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): failure of the bone marrow to produce crucial 
blood cells. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): Merkel cell carcinoma (a 
type of skin cancer); Kaposi’s sarcoma (a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes 
virus 8. Kaposi’s sarcoma most commonly appear as purple lesions on the skin); excessive 
activation of white blood cells associated with inflammation (macrophage activation 
syndrome); recurrence of hepatitis B (a liver infection); damage to the tiny filters inside your 
kidneys leading to poor kidney function (glomerulonephritis), worsening of a condition called 
dermatomyositis (muscle inflammation and weakness with an accompanying skin rash). 
Additional side effects in children and adolescents 
The side effects and their frequencies seen in children and adolescents are similar to those described 
above. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5.  How to store Enbrel 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
260 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and pre-filled syringe after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2° – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringes in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
After taking a syringe from the refrigerator, wait approximately 15-30 minutes to allow the Enbrel 
solution in the syringe to reach room temperature. Do not warm in any other way. Immediate use 
is then recommended.   
Enbrel may be stored outside of the refrigerator at temperatures up to a maximum of 25°C for a single 
period of up to four weeks; after which, it should not be refrigerated again. Enbrel should be discarded 
if not used within four weeks after removal from the refrigerator. It is recommended that you record 
the date that Enbrel is removed from the refrigerator and the date after which Enbrel should be 
discarded (no more than 4 weeks following the removal from the refrigerator). 
Inspect the solution in the syringe. It should be clear or slightly opalescent, colourless to pale yellow 
or pale brown, and may contain small white or almost transparent particles of protein. This appearance 
is normal for Enbrel. Do not use the solution if it is discoloured, cloudy, or if particles other than those 
described above are present. If you are concerned with the appearance of the solution, then contact 
your pharmacist for assistance. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information  
What Enbrel contains 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
The active substance in Enbrel is etanercept. Each pre-filled syringe contains 0.5 ml of solution, 
providing 25 mg of etanercept.   
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
The active substance in Enbrel is etanercept. Each pre-filled syringe contains 1.0 ml of solution, 
providing 50 mg of etanercept.  
The other ingredients are sucrose, sodium chloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, sodium phosphate 
monobasic dihydrate and sodium phosphate dibasic dihydrate, and water for injections. 
What Enbrel looks like and contents of the pack 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Enbrel is supplied as a pre-filled syringe containing a clear, colourless to pale yellow or pale brown 
solution for injection (solution for injection). Each pack contains 4, 8, 12 or 24 pre-filled syringes and 
4, 8, 12 or 24 alcohol swabs. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Enbrel is supplied as a pre-filled syringe containing a clear, colourless to pale yellow or pale brown 
solution for injection (solution for injection). Each pack contains 2, 4 or 12 pre-filled syringes and 2, 4 
or 12 alcohol swabs. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
261 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
Manufacturer 
Pfizer Manufacturing Belgium NV 
Rijksweg 12, 
2870 Puurs-Sint-Amands 
Belgium  
For any information about this medicinal product, please contact the local representative of the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Pfizer NV/SA 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11 
Česká Republika 
Pfizer, spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +420-283-004-111 
Danmark 
Pfizer ApS 
Tlf: +45 44 201 100 
Deutschland 
Pfizer Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000 
България  
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ,  
Клон България  
Teл: +359 2 970 4333 
Kύπρος 
PFIZER EΛΛAΣ A.E. (CYPRUS BRANCH)  
Tηλ: +357 22 817690 
Magyarország 
Pfizer Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 488 3700 
Malta 
Vivian Corporation Ltd. 
Tel: +35621 344610 
Nederland 
Pfizer bv 
Tel: +31 (0)800 63 34 636 
Norge 
Pfizer AS 
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00 
Eesti 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 666 7500 
Österreich 
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0 
Ελλάδα 
PFIZER EΛΛAΣ A.E. 
Τηλ.: +30 210 67 85 800 
España 
Pfizer, S.L. 
Télf: +34 91 490 99 00 
France 
Pfizer 
Tél +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40 
Polska 
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00 
Portugal 
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda. 
Tel: (+351) 21 423 55 00 
România 
Pfizer Romania S.R.L 
Tel: +40 (0) 21 207 28 00 
262 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hrvatska 
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 3908 777 
Ireland 
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland 
Tel: +1800 633 363 (toll free) 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Tel: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Pfizer S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21 
Slovenija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, Pfizer, podružnica  
za svetovanje s področja farmacevtske  
dejavnosti, Ljubljana  
Tel: +386 (0)1 52 11 400 
Slovenská Republika 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka  
Tel: +421 2 3355 5500 
Suomi/Finland 
Pfizer Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 430 040 
Sverige  
Pfizer AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00 
Latvija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā 
Tel. +371 67035775 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Pfizer Limited 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Lietuva 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas Lietuvoje 
Tel. +3705 2514000 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
7. 
Instructions for use 
This section is divided into the following subsections: 
Introduction 
Step 1: Setting up for an injection 
Step 2: Choosing an injection site 
Step 3: Injecting the Enbrel solution 
Step 4: Disposing of supplies 
Introduction 
The following instructions explain how to prepare and inject Enbrel. Please read the instructions 
carefully and follow them step by step. You will be instructed by your doctor or his/her assistant on 
the techniques of self-injection or on giving an injection to a child. Do not attempt to administer an 
injection until you are sure that you understand how to prepare and give the injection. 
The Enbrel solution should not be mixed with any other medicine before use. 
263 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 1: Setting up for an injection 
1. 
2. 
Select a clean, well-lit, flat working surface. 
Take the Enbrel carton containing the pre-filled syringes out of the refrigerator and place it on 
the flat work surface. Starting from one of the top corners, pull back the paper cover from the 
top and sides of the tray. Remove one pre-filled syringe and one alcohol swab and place them 
on the work surface. Do not shake the pre-filled syringe of Enbrel. Fold the paper cover back 
over the tray and place the carton containing any remaining pre-filled syringes back into the 
refrigerator. Please see section 5 for instructions on how to store Enbrel. If you have any 
questions about storage, contact your doctor, nurse, or pharmacist for further instructions. 
3.  You should allow 15 to 30 minutes for the Enbrel solution in the syringe to reach room 
temperature. Do NOT remove the needle cover while allowing it to reach room temperature. 
Waiting until the solution reaches room temperature may make the injection more comfortable 
for you. Do not warm Enbrel in any other way (for example, do not warm it in a microwave or 
in hot water). 
4.  Assemble the additional supplies you will need for your injection. These include the alcohol 
swab from the Enbrel carton and a cotton ball or gauze. 
5.  Wash your hands with soap and warm water. 
6. 
Inspect the solution in the syringe. It should be clear or slightly opalescent, colourless to pale 
yellow or pale brown, and may contain small white or almost transparent particles of protein. 
This appearance is normal for Enbrel. Do not use the solution if it is discoloured, cloudy, or if 
particles other than those described above are present. If you are concerned with the appearance 
of the solution, then contact your pharmacist for assistance. 
Step 2: Choosing an injection site 
1. 
The three recommended injection sites for Enbrel using a pre-filled syringe include: (1) the front 
of the middle thighs; (2) the abdomen, except for the 5 cm area right around the navel; and (3) 
the outer area of the upper arms (see Diagram 1). If you are self injecting, you should not use 
the outer area of the upper arms. 
Diagram 1 
2. 
3. 
A different site should be used for each new injection. Each new injection should be given at 
least 3 cm from an old site. Do not inject into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red, or 
hard. Avoid areas with scars or stretch marks. (It may be helpful to keep notes on the location of 
the previous injections.) 
If you or the child have psoriasis, you should try not to inject directly into any raised, thick, red, 
or scaly skin patches (“psoriasis skin lesions”). 
264 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 3: Injecting the Enbrel solution 
1.  Wipe the site where Enbrel is to be injected with the alcohol swab, using a circular motion. Do 
NOT touch this area again before giving the injection. 
2. 
Pick up the pre-filled syringe from the flat work surface. Remove the needle cover by firmly 
pulling it straight off the syringe (see Diagram 2). Be careful not to bend or twist the cover 
during removal to avoid damage to the needle. 
When you remove the needle cover, there may be a drop of liquid at the end of the needle; this is 
normal. Do not touch the needle or allow it to touch any surface. Do not touch or bump the 
plunger. Doing so could cause the liquid to leak out. 
Diagram 2 
3.  When the cleaned area of skin has dried, pinch and hold it firmly with one hand. With the other 
hand, hold the syringe like a pencil. 
4.  With a quick, short motion, push the needle all the way into the skin at an angle between 45° 
and 90° (see Diagram 3). With experience, you will find the angle that is most comfortable for 
you or the child. Be careful not to push the needle into the skin too slowly, or with great force.  
Diagram 3 
5.  When the needle is completely inserted into the skin, release the skin that you are holding. With 
your free hand, hold the syringe near its base to stabilise it. Then push the plunger to inject all of 
the solution at a slow, steady rate (see Diagram 4). 
265 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diagram 4 
6.  When the syringe is empty, pull the needle out of the skin, being careful to keep it at the same 
angle as inserted. There may be a little bleeding at the injection site. You can press a cotton ball 
or gauze over the injection site for 10 seconds. Do not rub the injection site. If needed, you may 
cover the injection site with a bandage. 
Step 4: Disposing of supplies 
• 
The pre-filled syringe is for single-use administration only. The syringe and needle should 
NEVER be re-used. NEVER re-cap a needle. Dispose of the needle and syringe as instructed 
by your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
If you have any questions, please talk to a doctor, nurse or pharmacist who is familiar with 
Enbrel. 
266 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
etanercept 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Card, which contains important safety information that 
you need to be aware of before and during treatment with Enbrel. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you or a child in your care. Do not pass it on to others. It 
may harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours or those of the child you are 
caring for. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
• 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
Information in this leaflet is organised under the following 7 sections: 
1.  What Enbrel is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Enbrel 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
How to use Enbrel 
Possible side effects 
How to store Enbrel 
Contents of the pack and other information 
Instructions for use 
1.  What Enbrel is and what it is used for 
Enbrel is a medicine that is made from two human proteins. It blocks the activity of another protein in 
the body that causes inflammation. Enbrel works by reducing the inflammation associated with certain 
diseases. 
In adults (aged 18 and over), Enbrel can be used for moderate or severe rheumatoid arthritis, 
psoriatic arthritis, severe axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis, and moderate 
or severe psoriasis – in each case usually when other widely used treatments have not worked well 
enough or are not suitable for you. 
For rheumatoid arthritis, Enbrel is usually used in combination with methotrexate, although it may 
also be used alone if treatment with methotrexate is unsuitable for you. Whether used alone or in 
combination with methotrexate, Enbrel can slow down the damage to your joints caused by the 
rheumatoid arthritis and improve your ability to do normal daily activities. 
For psoriatic arthritis patients with multiple joint involvement, Enbrel can improve your ability to do 
normal daily activities. For patients with multiple symmetrical painful or swollen joints (e.g., hands, 
wrists and feet), Enbrel can slow down the structural damage to those joints caused by the disease.  
267 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enbrel is also prescribed for the treatment of the following diseases in children and adolescents 
•  For the following types of juvenile idiopathic arthritis when treatment with methotrexate has not 
worked well enough or is not suitable for them: 
• 
• 
Polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative) and extended oligoarthritis 
in patients from the age of 2 years 
Psoriatic arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years 
• 
• 
For enthesitis-related arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years when other widely used 
treatments have not worked well enough or are not suitable for them 
Severe psoriasis in patients from the age of 6 years who have had an inadequate response to (or 
are unable to take) phototherapies or other systemic therapies. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Enbrel  
Do not use Enbrel 
• 
• 
• 
if you, or the child you are caring for, are allergic to etanercept or any of the other ingredients of 
Enbrel (listed in section 6). If you or the child experience allergic reactions such as chest 
tightness, wheezing, dizziness or rash, do not inject more Enbrel, and contact your doctor 
immediately. 
if you or the child have, or are at risk of developing a serious blood infection called sepsis. If 
you are not sure, please contact your doctor. 
if you or the child have an infection of any kind. If you are not sure, please talk to your doctor. 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before taking Enbrel. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Allergic reactions: If you or the child experience allergic reactions such as chest tightness, 
wheezing, dizziness or rash, do not inject more Enbrel, and contact your doctor immediately. 
Infections/surgery: If you or the child develop a new infection, or are about to have any major 
surgery, your doctor may wish to monitor the treatment with Enbrel. 
Infections/diabetes: Tell your doctor if you or the child have a history of recurrent infections or 
suffer from diabetes or other conditions that increase the risk of infection. 
Infections/monitoring: Tell your doctor of any recent travel outside the European region. If you 
or the child develop symptoms of an infection such as fever, chills or cough, notify your doctor 
immediately. Your doctor may decide to continue to monitor you or the child for the presence of 
infections after you or the child stop using Enbrel. 
Tuberculosis: As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with Enbrel, your 
doctor will check for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Enbrel. This may 
include a thorough medical history, a chest X-ray and a tuberculin test. The conduct of these 
tests should be recorded on the Patient Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor if you 
or the child have ever had tuberculosis, or have been in close contact with someone who has had 
tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (such as persistent cough, weight loss, listlessness, 
mild fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy, tell your doctor immediately. 
Hepatitis B: Tell your doctor if you or the child have or have ever had hepatitis B. Your doctor 
should test for the presence of hepatitis B infection before you or the child begin treatment with 
Enbrel. Treatment with Enbrel may result in reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who have 
previously been infected with the hepatitis B virus. If this occurs, you should stop using Enbrel. 
268 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Hepatitis C: Tell your doctor if you or the child have hepatitis C. Your doctor may wish to 
monitor the treatment with Enbrel in case the infection worsens. 
Blood disorders: Seek medical advice immediately if you or the child have any signs or 
symptoms such as persistent fever, sore throat, bruising, bleeding or paleness. Such symptoms 
may point to the existence of potentially life-threatening blood disorders, which may require 
discontinuation of Enbrel. 
Nervous system and eye disorders: Tell your doctor if you or the child have multiple sclerosis, 
optic neuritis (inflammation of the nerves of the eyes) or transverse myelitis (inflammation of 
the spinal cord). Your doctor will determine if Enbrel is an appropriate treatment. 
Congestive heart failure: Tell your doctor if you or the child have a history of congestive heart 
failure, because Enbrel needs to be used with caution under these circumstances. 
Cancer: Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had lymphoma (a type of blood cancer) or 
any other cancer before you are given Enbrel. 
Patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis, who have had the disease for a long time, may be at 
higher than average risk of developing lymphoma. 
Children and adults taking Enbrel may have an increased risk of developing lymphoma or 
another cancer. 
Some children and teenage patients who have received Enbrel or other medicines that work the 
same way as Enbrel have developed cancers, including unusual types, which sometimes resulted 
in death. 
Some patients receiving Enbrel have developed skin cancers. Tell your doctor if you or the child 
develop any change in the appearance of the skin or growths on the skin. 
Chickenpox: Tell your doctor if you or the child are exposed to chickenpox when using Enbrel. 
Your doctor will determine if preventive treatment for chickenpox is appropriate. 
Latex: The needle cap of the MYCLIC pen is made from latex (dry natural rubber). Contact 
your doctor before using Enbrel if the needle cap will be handled by, or Enbrel will be given to, 
someone with a known or possible hypersensitivity (allergy) to latex. 
Alcohol abuse: Enbrel should not be used for the treatment of hepatitis related to alcohol abuse. 
Please tell your doctor if you or the child in your care have a history of alcohol abuse. 
•  Wegener’s granulomatosis: Enbrel is not recommended for the treatment of Wegener’s 
• 
granulomatosis, a rare inflammatory disease. If you or the child in your care have Wegener’s 
granulomatosis, talk to your doctor. 
Anti-diabetic medicines: Tell your doctor if you or the child have diabetes or are taking 
medicines to treat diabetes. Your doctor may decide if you or the child need less anti-diabetic 
medicine while taking Enbrel. 
Children and adolescents  
Vaccinations: If possible, children should be up to date with all vaccinations before using Enbrel. 
Some vaccines, such as oral polio vaccine, should not be given while using Enbrel. Please consult 
your doctor before you or the child receive any vaccines. 
Enbrel should not normally be used in children with polyarthritis or extended oligoarthritis below the 
age of 2 years, or in children with enthesitis-related arthritis or psoriatic arthritis below the age of 12 
years, or in children with psoriasis below the age of 6 years. 
Other medicines and Enbrel 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you or the child are taking, have recently taken or might take any 
other medicines (including anakinra, abatacept or sulfasalazine), even those not prescribed by the 
doctor. You or the child should not use Enbrel with medicines that contain the active substance 
anakinra or abatacept. 
269 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Enbrel should only be used during pregnancy if clearly needed. You should consult your doctor if you 
become pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby.  
If you received Enbrel during pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk of getting an infection. In 
addition, one study found more birth defects when the mother had received Enbrel in pregnancy, 
compared with mothers who had not received Enbrel or other similar medicines (TNF-antagonists), 
but there was no particular kind of birth defect reported. Another study found no increased risk of birth 
defects when the mother had received Enbrel in pregnancy. Your doctor will help you to decide 
whether the benefits of treatment outweigh the potential risk to your baby. 
Talk to your doctor if you want to breastfeed while on Enbrel treatment. It is important that you tell 
your baby’s doctors and other healthcare professionals about the use of Enbrel during pregnancy and 
breastfeeding before your baby receives any vaccine. 
Driving and using machines 
The use of Enbrel is not expected to affect the ability to drive or use machines. 
Enbrel contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dosage unit, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3.  How to use Enbrel 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if or pharmacist 
you are not sure. 
If you feel that the effect of Enbrel is too strong or too weak, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. 
You have been prescribed a 25 mg strength of Enbrel. A 50 mg strength of Enbrel is available for 
doses of 50 mg.  
Dosing for adult patients (aged 18 years or over) 
Rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis 
The usual dose is 25 mg given twice a week or 50 mg once a week as an injection under the skin. 
However, your doctor may determine an alternative frequency at which to inject Enbrel.  
Plaque psoriasis 
The usual dose is 25 mg twice a week or 50 mg once a week.   
Alternatively, 50 mg may be given twice a week for up to 12 weeks, followed by 25 mg twice a week 
or 50 mg once a week.  
Your doctor will decide how long you should take Enbrel and whether retreatment is needed based on 
your response. If Enbrel has no effect on your condition after 12 weeks, your doctor may tell you to 
stop taking this medicine. 
270 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use in children and adolescents 
The appropriate dose and frequency of dosing for the child or adolescent will depend on body weight 
and disease. Your doctor will determine the correct dose for the child and will prescribe an appropriate 
strength of Enbrel (10 mg, 25 mg or 50 mg). 
For polyarthritis or extended oligoarthritis in patients from the age of 2 years, or enthesitis-related 
arthritis or psoriatic arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years, the usual dose is 0.4 mg of Enbrel 
per kg bodyweight (up to a maximum of 25 mg) given twice weekly, or 0.8 mg of Enbrel per kg of 
bodyweight (up to a maximum of 50 mg) given once weekly. 
For psoriasis in patients from the age of 6 years, the usual dose is 0.8 mg of Enbrel per kg bodyweight 
(up to a maximum of 50 mg), and should be given once weekly. If Enbrel has no effect on the child’s 
condition after 12 weeks, your doctor may tell you to stop using this medicine. 
The doctor will provide you with detailed directions for preparing and measuring the appropriate dose. 
Method and route of administration 
Enbrel is administered by an injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection). 
Enbrel can be taken with or without food or drink. 
Detailed instructions on how to inject Enbrel are provided in section 7, “Instructions for use.” 
Do not mix the Enbrel solution with any other medicine. 
To help you remember, it may be helpful to write in a diary which day(s) of the week Enbrel should be 
used. 
If you use more Enbrel than you should 
If you have used more Enbrel than you should (either by injecting too much on a single occasion or by 
using it too frequently), talk to a doctor or pharmacist immediately. Always have the outer carton of 
the medicine with you, even if it is empty. 
If you forget to inject Enbrel 
If you forget a dose, you should inject it as soon as you remember, unless the next scheduled dose is 
the next day; in which case you should skip the missed dose. Then continue to inject the medicine on 
the usual day(s). If you do not remember until the day that the next injection is due, do not take a 
double dose (two doses on the same day) to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop using Enbrel  
Your symptoms may return upon discontinuation.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
271 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allergic reactions 
If any of the following happen, do not inject more Enbrel. Tell your doctor immediately, or go to the 
casualty department at your nearest hospital. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Trouble swallowing or breathing 
Swelling of the face, throat, hands, or feet 
Feeling nervous or anxious, throbbing sensations, sudden reddening of the skin and/or a warm 
feeling 
Severe rash, itching, or hives (elevated patches of red or pale skin that often itch) 
Serious allergic reactions are rare. However, any of the above symptoms may indicate an allergic 
reaction to Enbrel, so you should seek immediate medical attention. 
Serious side effects 
If you notice any of the following, you or the child may need urgent medical attention. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Signs of serious infections, such as high fever that may be accompanied by cough, shortness of 
breath, chills, weakness, or a hot, red, tender, sore area on the skin or joints 
Signs of blood disorders, such as bleeding, bruising, or paleness 
Signs of nerve disorders, such as numbness or tingling, changes in vision, eye pain, or onset of 
weakness in an arm or leg 
Signs of heart failure or worsening heart failure, such as fatigue or shortness of breath with 
activity, swelling in the ankles, a feeling of fullness in the neck or abdomen, night-time 
shortness of breath or coughing, bluish colour of the nails or the lips 
Signs of cancers: Cancers may affect any part of the body including the skin and blood, and 
possible signs will depend on the type and location of the cancer. These signs may include 
weight loss, fever, swelling (with or without pain), persistent cough, presence of lumps or 
growths on the skin 
Signs of autoimmune reactions (where antibodies are made that may harm normal tissues in 
the body) such as pain, itching, weakness, and abnormal breathing, thinking, sensation, or vision 
Signs of lupus or lupus-like syndrome, such as weight changes, persistent rash, fever, joint or 
muscle pain, or fatigue 
Signs of inflammation of the blood vessels such as pain, fever, redness or warmth of the skin, 
or itching. 
These are rare or uncommon side effects, but are serious conditions (some of which may rarely be 
fatal). If these signs occur, tell your doctor immediately, or visit the casualty department at your 
nearest hospital. 
The known side effects of Enbrel include the following in groups of decreasing frequency: 
• 
• 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
Infections (including colds, sinusitis, bronchitis, urinary tract infections and skin infections); 
injection site reactions (including bleeding, bruising, redness, itching, pain, and swelling) (these 
do not occur as often after the first month of treatment; some patients have developed a reaction 
at an injection site that was recently used); and headache. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
Allergic reactions; fever; rash; itching; antibodies directed against normal tissue (autoantibody 
formation). 
272 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
Serious infections (including pneumonia, deep skin infections, joint infections, blood infection, 
and infections at various sites); worsening of congestive heart failure; low red blood cell count, 
low white blood cell count, low neutrophil (a type of white blood cell) count; low blood platelet 
count; skin cancer (excluding melanoma); localised swelling of the skin (angioedema); hives 
(elevated patches of red or pale skin that often itch); eye inflammation; psoriasis (new or 
worsening); inflammation of the blood vessels affecting multiple organs; elevated liver blood 
tests (in patients also receiving methotrexate treatment, the frequency of elevated liver blood 
tests is common); abdominal cramps and pain, diarrhoea, weight loss or blood in the stool (signs 
of bowel problems). 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
Serious allergic reactions (including severe localised swelling of the skin and wheezing); 
lymphoma (a type of blood cancer); leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow); 
melanoma (a type of skin cancer); combined low platelet, red, and white blood cell count; 
nervous system disorders (with severe muscle weakness and signs and symptoms similar to 
those of multiple sclerosis or inflammation of the nerves of the eyes or spinal cord); 
tuberculosis; new onset congestive heart failure; seizures; lupus or lupus-like syndrome 
(symptoms may include persistent rash, fever, joint pain, and tiredness); skin rash, which may 
lead to severe blistering and peeling of the skin; lichenoid reactions (itchy reddish-purple skin 
rash and/or threadlike white-grey lines on mucous membranes); inflammation of the liver 
caused by the body's own immune system (autoimmune hepatitis; in patients also receiving 
methotrexate treatment, the frequency is uncommon); immune disorder that can affect the lungs, 
skin and lymph nodes (sarcoidosis); inflammation or scarring of the lungs (in patients also 
receiving methotrexate treatment, the frequency of inflammation or scarring of the lungs is 
uncommon). 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): failure of the bone marrow to produce crucial 
blood cells. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): Merkel cell carcinoma (a 
type of skin cancer); Kaposi’s sarcoma (a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes 
virus 8. Kaposi’s sarcoma most commonly appear as purple lesions on the skin); excessive 
activation of white blood cells associated with inflammation (macrophage activation 
syndrome); recurrence of hepatitis B (a liver infection); damage to the tiny filters inside your 
kidneys leading to poor kidney function (glomerulonephritis), worsening of a condition called 
dermatomyositis (muscle inflammation and weakness with an accompanying skin rash). 
Additional side effects in children and adolescents 
The side effects and their frequencies seen in children and adolescents are similar to those described 
above. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5.  How to store Enbrel 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
273 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the MYCLIC pre-
filled pen after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2° – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled pens in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
After taking a pre-filled pen from the refrigerator, wait approximately 15-30 minutes to allow the 
Enbrel solution in the pen to reach room temperature. Do not warm in any other way. Immediate 
use is then recommended.   
Enbrel may be stored outside of the refrigerator at temperatures up to a maximum of 25°C for a single 
period of up to four weeks; after which, it should not be refrigerated again. Enbrel should be discarded 
if not used within four weeks after removal from the refrigerator. It is recommended that you record 
the date that Enbrel is removed from the refrigerator and the date after which Enbrel should be 
discarded (no more than 4 weeks following the removal from the refrigerator). 
Inspect the solution in the pen by looking through the clear inspection window. The solution should be 
clear or slightly opalescent, colourless to pale yellow or pale brown, and may contain small white or 
almost transparent particles of protein. This appearance is normal for Enbrel. Do not use the solution if 
it is discoloured, cloudy, or if particles other than those described above are present. If you are 
concerned with the appearance of the solution, then contact your pharmacist for assistance. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information  
What Enbrel contains 
The active substance in Enbrel is etanercept. Each MYCLIC pre-filled pen contains 25 mg of 
etanercept.   
The other ingredients are sucrose, sodium chloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, sodium phosphate 
monobasic dihydrate and sodium phosphate dibasic dihydrate, and water for injections. 
What Enbrel looks like and contents of the pack 
Enbrel is supplied as a solution for injection in a pre-filled pen (MYCLIC) (solution for injection). The 
MYCLIC pen contains a clear, colourless to pale yellow or pale brown solution for injection. Each 
pack contains 4, 8 or 24 pens and 4, 8 or 24 alcohol swabs. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
Manufacturer 
Pfizer Manufacturing Belgium NV 
Rijksweg 12, 
2870 Puurs-Sint-Amands 
Belgium  
274 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicinal product, please contact the local representative of the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Pfizer NV/SA 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11 
Česká Republika 
Pfizer, spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +420-283-004-111 
Danmark 
Pfizer ApS 
Tlf: +45 44 201 100 
Deutschland 
Pfizer Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000 
България  
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ,  
Клон България  
Teл: +359 2 970 4333 
Kύπρος 
PFIZER EΛΛAΣ A.E. (CYPRUS BRANCH)  
Tηλ: +357 22 817690 
Magyarország 
Pfizer Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 488 3700 
Malta 
Vivian Corporation Ltd. 
Tel: +35621 344610 
Nederland 
Pfizer bv 
Tel: +31 (0)800 63 34 636 
Norge 
Pfizer AS 
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00 
Eesti 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 666 7500 
Österreich 
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0 
Ελλάδα 
PFIZER EΛΛAΣ A.E. 
Τηλ.: +30 210 67 85 800 
España 
Pfizer, S.L. 
Télf: +34 91 490 99 00 
France 
Pfizer 
Tél +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40 
Hrvatska 
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 3908 777 
Ireland 
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland 
Tel: +1800 633 363 (toll free) 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Polska 
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00 
Portugal 
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda. 
Tel: (+351) 21 423 55 00 
România 
Pfizer Romania S.R.L 
Tel: +40 (0) 21 207 28 00 
Slovenija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, Pfizer, podružnica  
za svetovanje s področja farmacevtske  
dejavnosti, Ljubljana  
Tel: +386 (0)1 52 11 400 
Slovenská Republika 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka  
Tel: +421 2 3355 5500 
275 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Tel: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Pfizer S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21 
Suomi/Finland 
Pfizer Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 430 040 
Sverige  
Pfizer AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00 
Latvija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā 
Tel. +371 67035775 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Pfizer Limited 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Lietuva 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas Lietuvoje 
Tel. +3705 2514000 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
7. 
Instructions for use 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
(etanercept) 
For subcutaneous injection only 
Introduction 
•  The instructions below explain how to use the MYCLIC pen to inject Enbrel. 
•  Please read the instructions carefully, and follow them step by step. 
•  Your healthcare provider will tell you how to inject Enbrel. Do not attempt to administer an 
injection until you are sure that you understand how to use the MYCLIC pen properly. 
If you have questions about how to inject, please ask your healthcare provider for help. 
• 
The MYCLIC pre-filled pen 
Before injection 
Grey activation button 
Expiry date 
Clear inspection 
window 
After injection 
White needle cap 
Filled inspection window 
Open end – safety shield 
276 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 1 Preparing for an Enbrel injection 
•  Gather the following items for each injection on a clean, well-lit flat surface: 
o  One MYCLIC pre-filled pen. 
o  One alcohol swab. 
o  A suitable sharps container (not included). 
o  Clean cotton balls or gauze pads (not included). 
•  Do not shake the pen. 
•  Do not remove the white cap until instructed to do so. 
•  For a more comfortable injection, leave your pen at room temperature for 15 to 30 minutes with 
the white cap in place. 
•  Do not warm the pen in any other way. 
Step 2 Check label for expiry and dose 
•  Check the expiry date (month/year) on the pen label. 
•  Make sure the correct dose strength is shown on the pen label. 
• 
If the expiry date has passed or it is not your prescribed dose, do not use the pen and contact your 
healthcare provider for assistance. 
277 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 3 Inspect the medicine 
• 
Inspect the medicine in the pen by looking through the clear inspection window. The solution 
should be clear or slightly opalescent, colourless to pale yellow or pale brown, and may contain 
small white or almost transparent particles of protein. This appearance is normal for Enbrel. 
•  Do not use the medicine if it is discoloured, cloudy, or if particles other than those described 
above are present. If you are concerned with the appearance of the medicine, then contact your 
healthcare provider for assistance. 
•  Note: You may see an air bubble in the window. This is normal. 
Step 4 Choose and clean injection site 
Abdomen: 
Keep at least 5 cm 
away from  
your belly  
button (navel). 
Upper thighs 
Outer area of upper arms  
Caregiver only 
•  Choose an injection site in the middle of the front of your upper thighs or stomach area 5 cm away 
from the belly button (navel). The outer area of the back of the upper arms may also be used by a 
caregiver. 
•  Each injection should be given at least 3 cm from where you last injected. Do not inject into 
tender, bruised or hard skin. Avoid scars or stretch marks. If you have psoriasis, do not inject 
directly into any raised, thick, red or scaly skin. 
•  Clean the injection site with soap and water, or an alcohol swab if convenient. 
•  Allow the site to dry. Do not touch, fan or blow on the cleaned injection site. 
278 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 5 Remove needle cap 
•  Remove the white needle cap by pulling it straight off. Do not bend the cap while removing it. 
•  Do not re-attach the cap once it has been removed. 
•  After removal of the cap, you will see a purple needle safety shield extending slightly from the 
end of the pen. Do not push on the end safety shield with your fingers or thumbs. 
•  Do not use the pen if it is dropped with the needle cap off. 
Note: You may notice a drop of liquid at the needle tip. This is normal. 
Step 6 Push pen firmly against skin 
•  Push the open end of your pen firmly against the skin at 90 degrees so the purple needle safety 
shield is pushed completely inside the pen. 
Note: You will only be able to press the grey button when the needle shield is completely pushed 
inside the pen. 
Pinching or stretching the skin before injection may make the injection site firmer, making it 
easier to press the injection button. 
279 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 7 Start your injection 
Press button 
Continue to hold 
1st 
click 
2nd 
click 
Or 
10 sec
•  Press the grey button all the way down and you will hear a “click”. The click means the start of 
the injection. 
•  Continue to hold your pen firmly against the skin until you hear a 2nd “click”, or until 
10 seconds after the first click (whichever happens first). 
Note: If you are unable to start the injection as described, press the pen more firmly against your 
skin, then press the grey button again. 
Step 8 Lift off skin 
•  Remove your pen from your skin by lifting it straight off the injection site. 
•  The purple needle safety shield will automatically extend to cover the needle. 
Step 9 Check inspection window 
•  Check the pen’s inspection window. It should be completely purple. 
• 
If the window is not purple, you may not have received a full dose. Contact your healthcare 
provider for assistance. Do not try to use the pen again. Do not try to use another pen. 
If you notice a spot of blood at the injection site you should press the cotton ball or gauze over the 
injection site for 10 seconds. Do not rub the injection site. 
• 
280 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: The injection button may stay pressed in. This is normal. 
Step 10 Dispose 
•  Dispose of the used pen as instructed by your healthcare provider. Do not attempt to recap the 
pen. 
•  Do not press on the end of the needle safety shield. If you have any questions, please talk to your 
healthcare provider. 
--End of Instructions for Use—
281 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
etanercept 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Card, which contains important safety information that 
you need to be aware of before and during treatment with Enbrel. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you or a child in your care. Do not pass it on to others. It 
may harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours or those of the child you are 
caring for. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
• 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
Information in this leaflet is organised under the following 7 sections: 
1.  What Enbrel is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Enbrel 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
How to use Enbrel 
Possible side effects 
How to store Enbrel 
Contents of the pack and other information 
Instructions for use 
1.  What Enbrel is and what it is used for 
Enbrel is a medicine that is made from two human proteins. It blocks the activity of another protein in 
the body that causes inflammation. Enbrel works by reducing the inflammation associated with certain 
diseases. 
In adults (aged 18 and over), Enbrel can be used for moderate or severe rheumatoid arthritis, 
psoriatic arthritis, severe axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis, and moderate 
or severe psoriasis – in each case usually when other widely used treatments have not worked well 
enough or are not suitable for you. 
For rheumatoid arthritis, Enbrel is usually used in combination with methotrexate, although it may 
also be used alone if treatment with methotrexate is unsuitable for you. Whether used alone or in 
combination with methotrexate, Enbrel can slow down the damage to your joints caused by the 
rheumatoid arthritis and improve your ability to do normal daily activities. 
For psoriatic arthritis patients with multiple joint involvement, Enbrel can improve your ability to do 
normal daily activities. For patients with multiple symmetrical painful or swollen joints (e.g., hands, 
wrists and feet), Enbrel can slow down the structural damage to those joints caused by the disease.  
282 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enbrel is also prescribed for the treatment of the following diseases in children and adolescents 
• 
• 
• 
For the following types of juvenile idiopathic arthritis when treatment with methotrexate has not 
worked well enough or is not suitable for them: 
• 
• 
Polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative) and extended oligoarthritis 
in patients from the age of 2 years 
Psoriatic arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years 
For enthesitis-related arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years when other widely used 
treatments have not worked well enough or are not suitable for them 
Severe psoriasis in patients from the age of 6 years who have had an inadequate response to (or 
are unable to take) phototherapies or other systemic therapies. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Enbrel  
Do not use Enbrel 
• 
• 
• 
if you, or the child you are caring for, are allergic to etanercept or any of the other ingredients of 
Enbrel (listed in section 6). If you or the child experience allergic reactions such as chest 
tightness, wheezing, dizziness or rash, do not inject more Enbrel, and contact your doctor 
immediately. 
if you or the child have, or are at risk of developing a serious blood infection called sepsis. If 
you are not sure, please contact your doctor. 
if you or the child have an infection of any kind. If you are not sure, please talk to your doctor. 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before taking Enbrel. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Allergic reactions: If you or the child experience allergic reactions such as chest tightness, 
wheezing, dizziness or rash, do not inject more Enbrel, and contact your doctor immediately. 
Infections/surgery: If you or the child develop a new infection, or are about to have any major 
surgery, your doctor may wish to monitor the treatment with Enbrel. 
Infections/diabetes: Tell your doctor if you or the child have a history of recurrent infections or 
suffer from diabetes or other conditions that increase the risk of infection. 
Infections/monitoring: Tell your doctor of any recent travel outside the European region. If you 
or the child develop symptoms of an infection such as fever, chills or cough, notify your doctor 
immediately. Your doctor may decide to continue to monitor you or the child for the presence of 
infections after you or the child stop using Enbrel. 
Tuberculosis: As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with Enbrel, your 
doctor will check for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Enbrel. This may 
include a thorough medical history, a chest X-ray and a tuberculin test. The conduct of these 
tests should be recorded on the Patient Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor if you 
or the child have ever had tuberculosis, or have been in close contact with someone who has had 
tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (such as persistent cough, weight loss, listlessness, 
mild fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy, tell your doctor immediately. 
Hepatitis B: Tell your doctor if you or the child have or have ever had hepatitis B. Your doctor 
should test for the presence of hepatitis B infection before you or the child begin treatment with 
Enbrel. Treatment with Enbrel may result in reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who have 
previously been infected with the hepatitis B virus. If this occurs, you should stop using Enbrel. 
283 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Hepatitis C: Tell your doctor if you or the child have hepatitis C. Your doctor may wish to 
monitor the treatment with Enbrel in case the infection worsens. 
Blood disorders: Seek medical advice immediately if you or the child have any signs or 
symptoms such as persistent fever, sore throat, bruising, bleeding or paleness. Such symptoms 
may point to the existence of potentially life-threatening blood disorders, which may require 
discontinuation of Enbrel. 
Nervous system and eye disorders: Tell your doctor if you or the child have multiple sclerosis, 
optic neuritis (inflammation of the nerves of the eyes) or transverse myelitis (inflammation of 
the spinal cord). Your doctor will determine if Enbrel is an appropriate treatment. 
Congestive heart failure: Tell your doctor if you or the child have a history of congestive heart 
failure, because Enbrel needs to be used with caution under these circumstances. 
Cancer: Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had lymphoma (a type of blood cancer) or 
any other cancer before you are given Enbrel. 
Patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis, who have had the disease for a long time, may be at 
higher than average risk of developing lymphoma. 
Children and adults taking Enbrel may have an increased risk of developing lymphoma or 
another cancer. 
Some children and teenage patients who have received Enbrel or other medicines that work the 
same way as Enbrel have developed cancers, including unusual types, which sometimes resulted 
in death. 
Some patients receiving Enbrel have developed skin cancers. Tell your doctor if you or the child 
develop any change in the appearance of the skin or growths on the skin. 
Chickenpox: Tell your doctor if you or the child are exposed to chickenpox when using Enbrel. 
Your doctor will determine if preventive treatment for chickenpox is appropriate. 
Latex: The needle cap of the MYCLIC pen is made from latex (dry natural rubber). Contact 
your doctor before using Enbrel if the needle cap will be handled by, or Enbrel will be given to, 
someone with a known or possible hypersensitivity (allergy) to latex. 
Alcohol abuse: Enbrel should not be used for the treatment of hepatitis related to alcohol abuse. 
Please tell your doctor if you or the child in your care have a history of alcohol abuse. 
•  Wegener’s granulomatosis: Enbrel is not recommended for the treatment of Wegener’s 
• 
granulomatosis, a rare inflammatory disease. If you or the child in your care have Wegener’s 
granulomatosis, talk to your doctor. 
Anti-diabetic medicines: Tell your doctor if you or the child have diabetes or are taking 
medicines to treat diabetes. Your doctor may decide if you or the child need less anti-diabetic 
medicine while taking Enbrel. 
Children and adolescents  
Vaccinations: If possible, children should be up to date with all vaccinations before using Enbrel. 
Some vaccines, such as oral polio vaccine, should not be given while using Enbrel. Please consult 
your doctor before you or the child receive any vaccines. 
Enbrel should not normally be used in children with polyarthritis or extended oligoarthritis below the 
age of 2 years, or in children with enthesitis-related arthritis or psoriatic arthritis below the age of 12 
years, or in children with psoriasis below the age of 6 years. 
Other medicines and Enbrel 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you or the child are taking, have recently taken or might take any 
other medicines (including anakinra, abatacept or sulfasalazine), even those not prescribed by the 
doctor. You or the child should not use Enbrel with medicines that contain the active substance 
anakinra or abatacept. 
284 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Enbrel should only be used during pregnancy if clearly needed. You should consult your doctor if you 
become pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby.  
If you received Enbrel during pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk of getting an infection. In 
addition, one study found more birth defects when the mother had received Enbrel in pregnancy, 
compared with mothers who had not received Enbrel or other similar medicines (TNF-antagonists), 
but there was no particular kind of birth defect reported. Another study found no increased risk of birth 
defects when the mother had received Enbrel in pregnancy. Your doctor will help you to decide 
whether the benefits of treatment outweigh the potential risk to your baby. 
Talk to your doctor if you want to breastfeed while on Enbrel treatment. It is important that you tell 
your baby’s doctors and other healthcare professionals about the use of Enbrel during pregnancy and 
breastfeeding before your baby receives any vaccine. 
Driving and using machines 
The use of Enbrel is not expected to affect the ability to drive or use machines. 
Enbrel contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dosage unit, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3.  How to use Enbrel 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if or pharmacist 
you are not sure. 
If you feel that the effect of Enbrel is too strong or too weak, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. 
You have been prescribed a 50 mg strength of Enbrel. A 25 mg strength of Enbrel is available for 
doses of 25 mg.  
Dosing for adult patients (aged 18 years or over) 
Rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis 
The usual dose is 25 mg given twice a week or 50 mg once a week as an injection under the skin. 
However, your doctor may determine an alternative frequency at which to inject Enbrel.  
Plaque psoriasis 
The usual dose is 25 mg twice a week or 50 mg once a week.   
Alternatively, 50 mg may be given twice a week for up to 12 weeks, followed by 25 mg twice a week 
or 50 mg once a week.  
Your doctor will decide how long you should take Enbrel and whether retreatment is needed based on 
your response. If Enbrel has no effect on your condition after 12 weeks, your doctor may tell you to 
stop taking this medicine. 
285 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use in children and adolescents 
The appropriate dose and frequency of dosing for the child or adolescent will depend on body weight 
and disease. Your doctor will determine the correct dose for the child and will prescribe an appropriate 
strength of Enbrel (10 mg, 25 mg or 50 mg). 
For polyarthritis or extended oligoarthritis in patients from the age of 2 years, or enthesitis-related 
arthritis or psoriatic arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years, the usual dose is 0.4 mg of Enbrel 
per kg bodyweight (up to a maximum of 25 mg) given twice weekly, or 0.8 mg of Enbrel per kg of 
bodyweight (up to a maximum of 50 mg) given once weekly. 
For psoriasis in patients from the age of 6 years, the usual dose is 0.8 mg of Enbrel per kg bodyweight 
(up to a maximum of 50 mg), and should be given once weekly. If Enbrel has no effect on the child’s 
condition after 12 weeks, your doctor may tell you to stop using this medicine. 
The doctor will provide you with detailed directions for preparing and measuring the appropriate dose. 
Method and route of administration 
Enbrel is administered by an injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection). 
Enbrel can be taken with or without food or drink. 
Detailed instructions on how to inject Enbrel are provided in section 7 “Instructions for use”. Do 
not mix the Enbrel solution with any other medicine. 
To help you remember, it may be helpful to write in a diary which day(s) of the week Enbrel should be 
used. 
If you use more Enbrel than you should 
If you have used more Enbrel than you should (either by injecting too much on a single occasion or by 
using it too frequently), talk to a doctor or pharmacist immediately. Always have the outer carton of 
the medicine with you, even if it is empty. 
If you forget to inject Enbrel 
If you forget a dose, you should inject it as soon as you remember, unless the next scheduled dose is 
the next day; in which case you should skip the missed dose. Then continue to inject the medicine on 
the usual day(s). If you do not remember until the day that the next injection is due, do not take a 
double dose (two doses on the same day) to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop using Enbrel  
Your symptoms may return upon discontinuation.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
286 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allergic reactions 
If any of the following happen, do not inject more Enbrel. Tell your doctor immediately, or go to the 
casualty department at your nearest hospital. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Trouble swallowing or breathing 
Swelling of the face, throat, hands, or feet 
Feeling nervous or anxious, throbbing sensations, sudden reddening of the skin and/or a warm 
feeling 
Severe rash, itching, or hives (elevated patches of red or pale skin that often itch) 
Serious allergic reactions are rare. However, any of the above symptoms may indicate an allergic 
reaction to Enbrel, so you should seek immediate medical attention. 
Serious side effects 
If you notice any of the following, you or the child may need urgent medical attention. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Signs of serious infections, such as high fever that may be accompanied by cough, shortness of 
breath, chills, weakness, or a hot, red, tender, sore area on the skin or joints 
Signs of blood disorders, such as bleeding, bruising, or paleness 
Signs of nerve disorders, such as numbness or tingling, changes in vision, eye pain, or onset of 
weakness in an arm or leg 
Signs of heart failure or worsening heart failure, such as fatigue or shortness of breath with 
activity, swelling in the ankles, a feeling of fullness in the neck or abdomen, night-time 
shortness of breath or coughing, bluish colour of the nails or the lips 
Signs of cancers: Cancers may affect any part of the body including the skin and blood, and 
possible signs will depend on the type and location of the cancer. These signs may include 
weight loss, fever, swelling (with or without pain), persistent cough, presence of lumps or 
growths on the skin 
Signs of autoimmune reactions (where antibodies are made that may harm normal tissues in 
the body) such as pain, itching, weakness, and abnormal breathing, thinking, sensation, or vision 
Signs of lupus or lupus-like syndrome, such as weight changes, persistent rash, fever, joint or 
muscle pain, or fatigue 
Signs of inflammation of the blood vessels such as pain, fever, redness or warmth of the skin, 
or itching. 
These are rare or uncommon side effects, but are serious conditions (some of which may rarely be 
fatal). If these signs occur, tell your doctor immediately, or visit the casualty department at your 
nearest hospital. 
The known side effects of Enbrel include the following in groups of decreasing frequency: 
• 
• 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
Infections (including colds, sinusitis, bronchitis, urinary tract infections and skin infections); 
injection site reactions (including bleeding, bruising, redness, itching, pain, and swelling) (these 
do not occur as often after the first month of treatment; some patients have developed a reaction 
at an injection site that was recently used); and headache. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
Allergic reactions; fever; rash; itching; antibodies directed against normal tissue (autoantibody 
formation). 
287 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
Serious infections (including pneumonia, deep skin infections, joint infections, blood infection, 
and infections at various sites); worsening of congestive heart failure; low red blood cell count, 
low white blood cell count, low neutrophil (a type of white blood cell) count; low blood platelet 
count; skin cancer (excluding melanoma); localised swelling of the skin (angioedema); hives 
(elevated patches of red or pale skin that often itch); eye inflammation; psoriasis (new or 
worsening); inflammation of the blood vessels affecting multiple organs; elevated liver blood 
tests (in patients also receiving methotrexate treatment, the frequency of elevated liver blood 
tests is common); abdominal cramps and pain, diarrhoea, weight loss or blood in the stool (signs 
of bowel problems). 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
Serious allergic reactions (including severe localised swelling of the skin and wheezing); 
lymphoma (a type of blood cancer); leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow); 
melanoma (a type of skin cancer); combined low platelet, red, and white blood cell count; 
nervous system disorders (with severe muscle weakness and signs and symptoms similar to 
those of multiple sclerosis or inflammation of the nerves of the eyes or spinal cord); 
tuberculosis; new onset congestive heart failure; seizures; lupus or lupus-like syndrome 
(symptoms may include persistent rash, fever, joint pain, and tiredness); skin rash, which may 
lead to severe blistering and peeling of the skin; lichenoid reactions (itchy reddish-purple skin 
rash and/or threadlike white-grey lines on mucous membranes); inflammation of the liver 
caused by the body's own immune system (autoimmune hepatitis; in patients also receiving 
methotrexate treatment, the frequency is uncommon); immune disorder that can affect the lungs, 
skin and lymph nodes (sarcoidosis); inflammation or scarring of the lungs (in patients also 
receiving methotrexate treatment, the frequency of inflammation or scarring of the lungs is 
uncommon). 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): failure of the bone marrow to produce crucial 
blood cells. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): Merkel cell carcinoma (a 
type of skin cancer); Kaposi’s sarcoma (a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes 
virus 8. Kaposi’s sarcoma most commonly appear as purple lesions on the skin); excessive 
activation of white blood cells associated with inflammation (macrophage activation 
syndrome); recurrence of hepatitis B (a liver infection); damage to the tiny filters inside your 
kidneys leading to poor kidney function (glomerulonephritis), worsening of a condition called 
dermatomyositis (muscle inflammation and weakness with an accompanying skin rash). 
Additional side effects in children and adolescents 
The side effects and their frequencies seen in children and adolescents are similar to those described 
above. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5.  How to store Enbrel 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
288 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the MYCLIC pre-
filled pen after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2° – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled pens in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
After taking a pre-filled pen from the refrigerator, wait approximately 15-30 minutes to allow the 
Enbrel solution in the pen to reach room temperature. Do not warm in any other way. Immediate 
use is then recommended.   
Enbrel may be stored outside of the refrigerator at temperatures up to a maximum of 25°C for a single 
period of up to four weeks; after which, it should not be refrigerated again. Enbrel should be discarded 
if not used within four weeks after removal from the refrigerator. It is recommended that you record 
the date that Enbrel is removed from the refrigerator and the date after which Enbrel should be 
discarded (no more than 4 weeks following the removal from the refrigerator). 
Inspect the solution in the pen by looking through the clear inspection window. The solution should be 
clear or slightly opalescent, colourless to pale yellow or pale brown, and may contain small white or 
almost transparent particles of protein. This appearance is normal for Enbrel. Do not use the solution if 
it is discoloured, cloudy, or if particles other than those described above are present. If you are 
concerned with the appearance of the solution, then contact your pharmacist for assistance. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information  
What Enbrel contains 
The active substance in Enbrel is etanercept. Each MYCLIC pre-filled pen contains 50 mg of 
etanercept.   
The other ingredients are sucrose, sodium chloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, sodium phosphate 
monobasic dihydrate and sodium phosphate dibasic dihydrate, and water for injections. 
What Enbrel looks like and contents of the pack 
Enbrel is supplied as a solution for injection in a pre-filled pen (MYCLIC) (solution for injection). The 
MYCLIC pen contains a clear, colourless to pale yellow or pale brown solution for injection. Each 
pack contains 2, 4 or 12 pens and 2, 4 or 12 alcohol swabs. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
Manufacturer 
Pfizer Manufacturing Belgium NV 
Rijksweg 12, 
2870 Puurs-Sint-Amands 
Belgium  
289 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicinal product, please contact the local representative of the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Pfizer NV/SA 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11 
Česká Republika 
Pfizer, spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +420-283-004-111 
Danmark 
Pfizer ApS 
Tlf: +45 44 201 100 
Deutschland 
Pfizer Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000 
България  
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ,  
Клон България  
Teл: +359 2 970 4333 
Kύπρος 
PFIZER EΛΛAΣ A.E. (CYPRUS BRANCH)  
Tηλ: +357 22 817690 
Magyarország 
Pfizer Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 488 3700 
Malta 
Vivian Corporation Ltd. 
Tel: +35621 344610 
Nederland 
Pfizer bv 
Tel: +31 (0)800 63 34 636 
Norge 
Pfizer AS 
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00 
Eesti 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 666 7500 
Österreich 
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0 
Ελλάδα 
PFIZER EΛΛAΣ A.E. 
Τηλ.: +30 210 67 85 800 
España 
Pfizer, S.L. 
Télf: +34 91 490 99 00 
France 
Pfizer 
Tél +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40 
Hrvatska 
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 3908 777 
Ireland 
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland 
Tel: +1800 633 363 (toll free) 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Polska 
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00 
Portugal 
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda. 
Tel: (+351) 21 423 55 00 
România 
Pfizer Romania S.R.L 
Tel: +40 (0) 21 207 28 00 
Slovenija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, Pfizer, podružnica  
za svetovanje s področja farmacevtske  
dejavnosti, Ljubljana  
Tel: +386 (0)1 52 11 400 
Slovenská Republika 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka  
Tel: +421 2 3355 5500 
290 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Tel: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Pfizer S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21 
Suomi/Finland 
Pfizer Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 430 040 
Sverige  
Pfizer AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00 
Latvija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā 
Tel. +371 67035775 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Pfizer Limited 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Lietuva 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas Lietuvoje 
Tel. +3705 2514000 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
7. 
Instructions for use 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
(etanercept) 
For subcutaneous injection only 
Introduction 
•  The instructions below explain how to use the MYCLIC pen to inject Enbrel. 
•  Please read the instructions carefully, and follow them step by step. 
•  Your healthcare provider will tell you how to inject Enbrel. Do not attempt to administer an 
injection until you are sure that you understand how to use the MYCLIC pen properly. 
If you have questions about how to inject, please ask your healthcare provider for help. 
• 
The MYCLIC pre-filled pen 
Before injection 
Green activation button 
Expiry date 
Clear inspection 
window 
After injection 
White needle cap 
Filled inspection window 
Open end – safety shield 
291 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 1 Preparing for an Enbrel injection 
•  Gather the following items for each injection on a clean, well-lit flat surface: 
o  One MYCLIC pre-filled pen. 
o  One alcohol swab. 
o  A suitable sharps container (not included). 
o  Clean cotton balls or gauze pads (not included). 
•  Do not shake the pen. 
•  Do not remove the white cap until instructed to do so. 
•  For a more comfortable injection, leave your pen at room temperature for 15 to 30 minutes with 
the white cap in place. 
•  Do not warm the pen in any other way. 
Step 2 Check label for expiry and dose 
•  Check the expiry date (month/year) on the pen label. 
•  Make sure the correct dose strength is shown on the pen label. 
• 
If the expiry date has passed or it is not your prescribed dose, do not use the pen and contact your 
healthcare provider for assistance. 
292 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 3 Inspect the medicine 
• 
Inspect the medicine in the pen by looking through the clear inspection window. The solution 
should be clear or slightly opalescent, colourless to pale yellow or pale brown, and may contain 
small white or almost transparent particles of protein. This appearance is normal for Enbrel. 
•  Do not use the medicine if it is discoloured, cloudy, or if particles other than those described 
above are present. If you are concerned with the appearance of the medicine, then contact your 
healthcare provider for assistance. 
•  Note: You may see an air bubble in the window. This is normal. 
Step 4 Choose and clean injection site 
Abdomen: 
Keep at least 5 cm 
away from  
your belly  
button (navel). 
Upper thighs 
Outer area of upper arms  
Caregiver only 
•  Choose an injection site in the middle of the front of your upper thighs or stomach area 5 cm away 
from the belly button (navel). The outer area of the back of the upper arms may also be used by a 
caregiver. 
•  Each injection should be given at least 3 cm from where you last injected. Do not inject into 
tender, bruised or hard skin. Avoid scars or stretch marks. If you have psoriasis, do not inject 
directly into any raised, thick, red or scaly skin. 
•  Clean the injection site with soap and water, or an alcohol swab if convenient. 
•  Allow the site to dry. Do not touch, fan or blow on the cleaned injection site. 
293 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 5 Remove needle cap 
•  Remove the white needle cap by pulling it straight off. Do not bend the cap while removing it. 
•  Do not re-attach the cap once it has been removed. 
•  After removal of the cap, you will see a purple needle safety shield extending slightly from the 
end of the pen. Do not push on the end safety shield with your fingers or thumbs. 
•  Do not use the pen if it is dropped with the needle cap off. 
Note: You may notice a drop of liquid at the needle tip. This is normal. 
Step 6 Push pen firmly against skin 
•  Push the open end of your pen firmly against the skin at 90 degrees so the purple needle safety 
shield is pushed completely inside the pen. 
Note: You will only be able to press the green button when the needle shield is completely pushed 
inside the pen. 
Pinching or stretching the skin before injection may make the injection site firmer, making it 
easier to press the injection button. 
Step 7 Start your injection 
Press button 
Continue to hold 
1st 
click 
2nd 
click 
Or 
10 sec
294 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Press the green button all the way down and you will hear a “click”. The click means the start of 
the injection. 
•  Continue to hold your pen firmly against the skin until you hear a 2nd “click”, or until 
10 seconds after the first click (whichever happens first). 
Note: If you are unable to start the injection as described, press the pen more firmly against your 
skin, then press the green button again. 
Step 8 Lift off skin 
•  Remove your pen from your skin by lifting it straight off the injection site. 
•  The purple needle safety shield will automatically extend to cover the needle. 
Step 9 Check inspection window 
•  Check the pen’s inspection window. It should be completely purple. 
• 
If the window is not purple, you may not have received a full dose. Contact your healthcare 
provider for assistance. Do not try to use the pen again. Do not try to use another pen. 
If you notice a spot of blood at the injection site you should press the cotton ball or gauze over the 
injection site for 10 seconds. Do not rub the injection site. 
Note: The injection button may stay pressed in. This is normal. 
• 
Step 10 Dispose 
295 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Dispose of the used pen as instructed by your healthcare provider. Do not attempt to recap the 
pen. 
•  Do not press on the end of the needle safety shield. If you have any questions, please talk to your 
healthcare provider. 
--End of Instructions for Use—
296 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Enbrel 10 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection for paediatric use 
etanercept 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Card, which contains important safety information that 
you need to be aware of before and during treatment with Enbrel. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for a child in your care. Do not pass it on to others. It may 
harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same as those of the child you are caring for. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
• 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
Information in this leaflet is organised under the following 7 sections: 
1.  What Enbrel is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Enbrel 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
How to use Enbrel 
Possible side effects 
How to store Enbrel 
Contents of the pack and other information 
Instructions for use 
1.  What Enbrel is and what it is used for 
Enbrel is a medicine that is made from two human proteins. It blocks the activity of another protein in 
the body that causes inflammation. Enbrel works by reducing the inflammation associated with certain 
diseases. 
Enbrel is prescribed for the treatment of the following diseases in children and adolescents 
• 
• 
• 
For the following types of juvenile idiopathic arthritis when treatment with methotrexate has not 
worked well enough or is not suitable for them: 
• 
• 
Polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative) and extended oligoarthritis 
in patients from the age of 2 years 
Psoriatic arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years 
For enthesitis-related arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years when other widely used 
treatments have not worked well enough or are not suitable for them 
Severe psoriasis in patients from the age of 6 years who have had an inadequate response to (or 
are unable to take) phototherapies or other systemic therapies. 
297 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you use Enbrel  
Do not use Enbrel 
• 
• 
• 
if the child you are caring for is allergic to etanercept or any of the other ingredients of Enbrel 
(listed in section 6). If the child experiences allergic reactions such as chest tightness, wheezing, 
dizziness or rash, do not inject more Enbrel, and contact your doctor immediately. 
if the child has, or is at risk of developing a serious blood infection called sepsis. If you are not 
sure, please contact your doctor. 
if the child has an infection of any kind. If you are not sure, please talk to your doctor. 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before taking Enbrel. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Allergic reactions: If the child experiences allergic reactions such as chest tightness, wheezing, 
dizziness or rash, do not inject more Enbrel, and contact your doctor immediately. 
Latex: The syringe rubber tip is made from latex (dry natural rubber). Contact your doctor 
before using Enbrel if the syringe will be handled by, or Enbrel will be given to, someone with a 
known or possible hypersensitivity (allergy) to latex. 
Infections/surgery: If the child develops a new infection, or is about to have any major surgery, 
the doctor may wish to monitor the child's treatment with Enbrel. 
Infections/diabetes: Tell your doctor if the child has a history of recurrent infections, or suffers 
from diabetes or other conditions that increase the risk of infection. 
Infections/monitoring: Tell your doctor of any recent travel outside the European region. If the 
child develops symptoms of an infection such as fever, chills or cough, notify your doctor 
immediately. Your doctor may decide to continue to monitor the child for the presence of 
infections after the child stops using Enbrel. 
Tuberculosis: As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with Enbrel, your 
doctor will check for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Enbrel. This may 
include a thorough medical history, a chest X-ray and a tuberculin test. The conduct of these 
tests should be recorded on the Patient Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor if the 
child has ever had tuberculosis, or has been in close contact with someone who has had 
tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (such as persistent cough, weight loss, listlessness, 
mild fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy, tell your doctor immediately. 
Hepatitis B: Tell your doctor if the child has or has ever had hepatitis B. Your doctor should 
test for the presence of hepatitis B infection before the child begins treatment with Enbrel. 
Treatment with Enbrel may result in reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who have previously 
been infected with the hepatitis B virus. If this occurs, you should stop using Enbrel. 
Hepatitis C: Tell your doctor if the child has hepatitis C. Your doctor may wish to monitor the 
treatment with Enbrel in case the infection worsens. 
Blood disorders: Seek medical advice immediately if the child has any signs or symptoms such 
as persistent fever, sore throat, bruising, bleeding or paleness. Such symptoms may point to the 
existence of potentially life-threatening blood disorders, which may require discontinuation of 
Enbrel. 
Nervous system and eye disorders: Tell your doctor if the child has multiple sclerosis, optic 
neuritis (inflammation of the nerves of the eyes) or transverse myelitis (inflammation of the 
spinal cord). Your doctor will determine if Enbrel is an appropriate treatment. 
Congestive heart failure: Tell your doctor if the child has a history of congestive heart failure, 
because Enbrel needs to be used with caution under these circumstances. 
Cancer: Tell your doctor if the child has or has ever had lymphoma (a type of blood cancer) or 
any other cancer before the child is given Enbrel. 
Patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis, who have had the disease for a long time, may be at 
higher than average risk of developing lymphoma. 
298 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adults taking Enbrel may have an increased risk of developing lymphoma or 
another cancer. 
Some children and teenage patients who have received Enbrel or other medicines that work the 
same way as Enbrel have developed cancers, including unusual types, which sometimes resulted 
in death. 
Some patients receiving Enbrel have developed skin cancers. Tell your doctor if the child 
develops any change in the appearance of the skin or growths on the skin. 
Chickenpox: Tell your doctor if the child is exposed to chickenpox when using Enbrel. Your 
doctor will determine if preventative treatment for chickenpox is appropriate. 
Alcohol abuse: Enbrel should not be used for the treatment of hepatitis related to alcohol abuse. 
Please tell your doctor if the child in your care has a history of alcohol abuse. 
• 
• 
•  Wegener’s granulomatosis: Enbrel is not recommended for the treatment of Wegener’s 
granulomatosis, a rare inflammatory disease. If the child in your care has Wegener’s 
granulomatosis, talk to your doctor. 
Anti-diabetic medicines: Tell your doctor if the child has diabetes or is taking medicines to 
treat diabetes. Your doctor may decide if the child needs less anti-diabetic medicine while 
taking Enbrel. 
• 
Children and adolescents  
Vaccinations: If possible, children should be up to date with all vaccinations before using Enbrel. 
Some vaccines, such as oral polio vaccine, should not be given while using Enbrel. Please consult the 
child’s doctor before the child receives any vaccines. 
Enbrel should not normally be used in children with polyarthritis or extended oligoarthritis below the 
age of 2 years, or in children with enthesitis-related arthritis or psoriatic arthritis below the age of 12 
years, or in children with psoriasis below the age of 6 years. 
Other medicines and Enbrel 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if the child is taking, has recently taken or might take any other 
medicines (including anakinra, abatacept or sulfasalazine), even those not prescribed by the child's 
doctor. The child should not use Enbrel with medicines that contain the active substance anakinra or 
abatacept. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Enbrel should only be used during pregnancy if clearly needed. You should consult your doctor if you 
become pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby.  
If you received Enbrel during pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk of getting an infection. In 
addition, one study found more birth defects when the mother had received Enbrel in pregnancy, 
compared with mothers who had not received Enbrel or other similar medicines (TNF-antagonists), 
but there was no particular kind of birth defect reported. Another study found no increased risk of birth 
defects when the mother had received Enbrel in pregnancy. Your doctor will help you to decide 
whether the benefits of treatment outweigh the potential risk to your baby. 
Talk to your doctor if you want to breastfeed while on Enbrel treatment. It is important that you tell 
your baby’s doctors and other healthcare professionals about the use of Enbrel during pregnancy and 
breastfeeding before your baby receives any vaccine. 
Driving and using machines 
The use of Enbrel is not expected to affect the ability to drive or use machines. 
299 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  How to use Enbrel 
Use in children and adolescents 
Always use this medicine exactly as the doctor has told you. Check with the doctor or pharmacist if 
you are not sure. 
If you feel that the effect of Enbrel is too strong or too weak, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. 
The appropriate dose and frequency of dosing for the child or adolescent will depend on body weight 
and disease. The doctor will provide you with detailed directions for preparing and measuring the 
appropriate dose. 
The 10 mg vial is for children prescribed a dose of 10 mg or less. Each vial should be used for just one 
dose in one patient, and any remaining solution should be discarded. 
For polyarthritis or extended oligoarthritis in patients from the age of 2 years, or enthesitis-related 
arthritis or psoriatic arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years, the usual dose is 0.4 mg of Enbrel 
per kg bodyweight (up to a maximum of 25 mg) given twice weekly, or 0.8 mg of Enbrel per kg of 
bodyweight (up to a maximum of 50 mg) given once weekly. 
For psoriasis in patients from the age of 6 years, the usual dose is 0.8 mg of Enbrel per kg bodyweight 
(up to a maximum of 50 mg), and should be given once weekly. If Enbrel has no effect on the child’s 
condition after 12 weeks, your doctor may tell you to stop using this medicine. 
Method and route of administration 
Enbrel is administered by an injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection). 
Enbrel can be taken with or without food or drink. 
The powder must be dissolved before use. Detailed instructions on how to prepare and inject 
Enbrel are provided in section 7, “Instructions for use”. Do not mix the Enbrel solution with any 
other medicine. 
To help you remember, it may be helpful to write in a diary which day(s) of the week Enbrel should be 
used. 
If you use more Enbrel than you should 
If you have used more Enbrel than you should (either by injecting too much on a single occasion or by 
using it too frequently), talk to a doctor or pharmacist immediately. Always have the outer carton of 
the medicine with you, even if it is empty. 
If you forget to inject Enbrel 
If you forget a dose, you should inject it as soon as you remember, unless the next scheduled dose is 
the next day; in which case you should skip the missed dose. Then continue to inject the medicine on 
the usual day(s). If you do not remember until the day that the next injection is due, do not take a 
double dose (two doses on the same day) to make up for a forgotten dose. 
300 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you stop using Enbrel  
Your symptoms may return upon discontinuation.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Allergic reactions 
If any of the following happen to the child, do not give the child more Enbrel. Tell your doctor 
immediately, or go to the casualty department at your nearest hospital. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Trouble swallowing or breathing 
Swelling of the face, throat, hands, or feet 
Feeling nervous or anxious, throbbing sensations, sudden reddening of the skin and/or a warm 
feeling 
Severe rash, itching, or hives (elevated patches of red or pale skin that often itch) 
Serious allergic reactions are rare. If the child has any of the above symptoms he/she may be having 
an allergic reaction to Enbrel, so you should seek immediate medical attention.  
Serious side effects 
If you notice any of the following, the child may need urgent medical attention. 
• 
Signs of serious infections, such as high fever that may be accompanied by cough, shortness of 
breath, chills, weakness, or a hot, red, tender, sore area on the skin or joints 
Signs of blood disorders, such as bleeding, bruising, or paleness 
Signs of nerve disorders, such as numbness or tingling, changes in vision, eye pain, or onset of 
weakness in an arm or leg 
Signs of heart failure or worsening heart failure, such as fatigue or shortness of breath with 
activity, swelling in the ankles, a feeling of fullness in the neck or abdomen, night-time 
shortness of breath or coughing, bluish colour of the nails or the lips 
Signs of cancers: Cancers may affect any part of the body including the skin and blood, and 
possible signs will depend on the type and location of the cancer. These signs may include 
weight loss, fever, swelling (with or without pain), persistent cough, presence of lumps or 
growths on the skin 
Signs of autoimmune reactions (where antibodies are made that may harm normal tissues in 
the body) such as pain, itching, weakness, and abnormal breathing, thinking, sensation, or vision 
Signs of lupus or lupus-like syndrome, such as weight changes, persistent rash, fever, joint or 
muscle pain, or fatigue 
Signs of inflammation of the blood vessels such as pain, fever, redness or warmth of the skin, 
or itching. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
These are rare or uncommon side effects, but are serious conditions (some of which may rarely be 
fatal). If these signs occur, tell your doctor immediately, or take the child to the casualty department at 
your nearest hospital. 
301 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The known side effects of Enbrel include the following in groups of decreasing frequency: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
Infections (including colds, sinusitis, bronchitis, urinary tract infections and skin infections); 
injection site reactions (including bleeding, bruising, redness, itching, pain, and swelling) (these 
do not occur as often after the first month of treatment; some patients have developed a reaction 
at an injection site that was recently used); and headache. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
Allergic reactions; fever; rash; itching; antibodies directed against normal tissue (autoantibody 
formation). 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
Serious infections (including pneumonia, deep skin infections, joint infections, blood infection, 
and infections at various sites); worsening of congestive heart failure; low red blood cell count, 
low white blood cell count, low neutrophil (a type of white blood cell) count; low blood platelet 
count; skin cancer (excluding melanoma); localised swelling of the skin (angioedema); hives 
(elevated patches of red or pale skin that often itch); eye inflammation; psoriasis (new or 
worsening); inflammation of the blood vessels affecting multiple organs; elevated liver blood 
tests (in patients also receiving methotrexate treatment, the frequency of elevated liver blood 
tests is common); abdominal cramps and pain, diarrhoea, weight loss or blood in the stool (signs 
of bowel problems). 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
Serious allergic reactions (including severe localised swelling of the skin and wheezing); 
lymphoma (a type of blood cancer); leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow); 
melanoma (a type of skin cancer); combined low platelet, red, and white blood cell count; 
nervous system disorders (with severe muscle weakness and signs and symptoms similar to 
those of multiple sclerosis or inflammation of the nerves of the eyes or spinal cord); 
tuberculosis; new onset congestive heart failure; seizures; lupus or lupus-like syndrome 
(symptoms may include persistent rash, fever, joint pain, and tiredness); skin rash, which may 
lead to severe blistering and peeling of the skin; lichenoid reactions (itchy reddish-purple skin 
rash and/or threadlike white-grey lines on mucous membranes); inflammation of the liver 
caused by the body's own immune system (autoimmune hepatitis; in patients also receiving 
methotrexate treatment, the frequency is uncommon); immune disorder that can affect the lungs, 
skin and lymph nodes (sarcoidosis); inflammation or scarring of the lungs (in patients also 
receiving methotrexate treatment, the frequency of inflammation or scarring of the lungs is 
uncommon). 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): failure of the bone marrow to produce crucial 
blood cells. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): Merkel cell carcinoma (a 
type of skin cancer); Kaposi’s sarcoma (a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes 
virus 8. Kaposi’s sarcoma most commonly appear as purple lesions on the skin); excessive 
activation of white blood cells associated with inflammation (macrophage activation 
syndrome); recurrence of hepatitis B (a liver infection); damage to the tiny filters inside your 
kidneys leading to poor kidney function (glomerulonephritis), worsening of a condition called 
dermatomyositis (muscle inflammation and weakness with an accompanying skin rash). 
Additional side effects in children and adolescents 
The side effects and their frequencies seen in children and adolescents are similar to those described 
above. 
302 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5.  How to store Enbrel 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton after EXP. The expiry date 
refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Before preparing the Enbrel solution, Enbrel may be stored outside of the refrigerator at temperatures 
up to a maximum of 25°C for a single period of up to four weeks; after which, it should not be 
refrigerated again. Enbrel should be discarded if not used within four weeks after removal from the 
refrigerator. It is recommended that you record the date that Enbrel is removed from the refrigerator 
and the date after which Enbrel should be discarded (no more than 4 weeks following the removal 
from the refrigerator). This new expiry date should not exceed the expiry date recorded on the outer 
carton. 
After preparing the Enbrel solution, immediate use is recommended. However, the solution may be 
used for up to 6 hours when stored at a temperature up to 25°C.  
Do not use this medicine if you notice the solution is not clear or contains particles. The solution 
should be clear, colourless to pale yellow or pale brown, with no lumps or flakes or particles.  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information  
What Enbrel contains 
The active ingredient in Enbrel is etanercept. Each vial of Enbrel 10 mg powder and solvent for 
solution for injection for paediatric use contains 10 mg of etanercept. When reconstituted, the solution 
contains 10 mg/ml of etanercept. 
The other ingredients are: 
Powder: Mannitol (E421), sucrose, and trometamol. 
Solvent: Water for injections. 
What Enbrel looks like and contents of the pack 
Enbrel 10 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection for paediatric use is supplied as a white 
powder with solvent for solution for injection (powder for injection). Each pack contains 4 vials, 4 
pre-filled syringes of water for injections, 4 needles, 4 vial adaptors and 8 alcohol swabs.  
303 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
Manufacturer 
Pfizer Manufacturing Belgium NV 
Rijksweg 12, 
2870 Puurs-Sint-Amands 
Belgium  
For any information about this medicinal product, please contact the local representative of the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Pfizer NV/SA 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11 
Česká Republika 
Pfizer, spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +420-283-004-111 
Danmark 
Pfizer ApS 
Tlf: +45 44 201 100 
Deutschland 
Pfizer Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000 
България  
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ,  
Клон България  
Teл: +359 2 970 4333 
Kύπρος 
PFIZER EΛΛAΣ A.E. (CYPRUS BRANCH)  
Tηλ: +357 22 817690 
Magyarország 
Pfizer Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 488 3700 
Malta 
Vivian Corporation Ltd. 
Tel: +35621 344610 
Nederland 
Pfizer bv 
Tel: +31 (0)800 63 34 636 
Norge 
Pfizer AS 
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00 
Eesti 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 666 7500 
Österreich 
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0 
Ελλάδα 
PFIZER EΛΛAΣ A.E. 
Τηλ.: +30 210 67 85 800 
España 
Pfizer, S.L. 
Télf: +34 91 490 99 00 
France 
Pfizer 
Tél +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40 
Polska 
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00 
Portugal 
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda. 
Tel: (+351) 21 423 55 00 
România 
Pfizer Romania S.R.L 
Tel: +40 (0) 21 207 28 00 
304 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hrvatska 
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 3908 777 
Ireland 
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland 
Tel: +1800 633 363 (toll free) 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Tel: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Pfizer S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21 
Slovenija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, Pfizer, podružnica  
za svetovanje s področja farmacevtske  
dejavnosti, Ljubljana  
Tel: +386 (0)1 52 11 400 
Slovenská Republika 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka  
Tel: +421 2 3355 5500 
Suomi/Finland 
Pfizer Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 430 040 
Sverige  
Pfizer AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00 
Latvija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā 
Tel. +371 67035775 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Pfizer Limited 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Lietuva 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas Lietuvoje 
Tel. +3705 2514000 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
7. 
Instructions for use 
This section is divided into the following sub-sections: 
a.  Introduction 
b.  Setting up for an injection 
c.  Preparing the Enbrel dose for injection  
d.  Adding solvent 
e.  Withdrawing the Enbrel solution from the vial 
f.  Placing the needle on the syringe 
g.  Choosing an injection site  
h.  Preparing the injection site and injecting the Enbrel solution 
i.  Disposing of supplies 
a. 
Introduction 
The following instructions explain how to prepare and inject Enbrel. Please read the instructions 
carefully and follow them step by step. You will be instructed by the child's doctor or his/her assistant 
on the technique of giving an injection and on the amount to be given to the child. Do not attempt to 
administer an injection until you are sure that you understand how to prepare and give the injection. 
305 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
c. 
• 
• 
• 
This injection should not be mixed in the same syringe or vial with any other medicine. See section 5 
for instructions on how to store Enbrel. 
b. 
Setting up for an injection 
•  Wash your hands thoroughly. 
• 
• 
Select a clean well-lit, flat working surface. 
The dose tray should contain the items listed below. (If not, don’t use the dose tray and consult 
your pharmacist). Use only the items listed. Do NOT use any other syringe. 
1 Enbrel vial 
1 Pre-filled syringe containing clear, colourless solvent (water for injections) 
1 Needle 
1 Vial adaptor 
2 Alcohol swabs 
Inspect the expiry dates on both the vial label and the syringe label. They should not be used 
after the month and year shown. 
Preparing the Enbrel dose for injection 
Remove the contents of the tray 
Remove the plastic cap from the Enbrel vial (see Diagram 1). Do NOT remove the grey stopper 
or aluminium ring around the top of the vial. 
Diagram 1 
Use a new alcohol swab to clean the grey stopper on the Enbrel vial. After cleaning, do not 
touch the stopper with your hands or allow it to touch any surface. 
Place the vial upright on a clean, flat surface. 
Remove the paper backing from the vial adaptor package. 
• 
• 
•  While still in the plastic package, place the vial adaptor on top of the Enbrel vial so that the vial 
adaptor spike is centered within the raised circle on top of the vial stopper (see Diagram 2). 
Hold the vial firmly on the flat surface with one hand. With the other hand, push STRAIGHT 
DOWN FIRMLY on the adaptor package until you feel the adaptor spike penetrate the vial 
stopper and FEEL AND HEAR THE ADAPTOR RIM LOCK INTO PLACE (see Diagram 
3). Do NOT push down the adaptor at an angle (see Diagram 4). It is important that the vial 
adaptor spike completely penetrates the vial stopper. 
• 
Diagram 2 
Diagram 3 
Diagram 4 
CORRECT 
INCORRECT 
306 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  While holding the vial in one hand, remove the plastic packaging from the vial adaptor (see 
Diagram 5). 
Diagram 5 
• 
• 
• 
Remove the protective cover from the syringe tip by breaking the white cap along the 
perforation. This is done by holding the collar of the white cap while grasping the end of the 
white cap with the other hand and bending it down and then up until it is broken (see Diagram 
6). Do NOT remove the white collar that remains on the syringe. 
Diagram 6 
Do not use the syringe if the perforation between the tip and collar is already broken. Start again 
with another dose tray. 
Holding the glass barrel of the syringe (not the white collar) in one hand, and the vial adaptor 
(not the vial) in the other, connect the syringe to the vial adaptor by inserting the tip into the 
opening and turn clockwise until completely secured (see Diagram 7). 
Diagram 7 
d. 
Adding solvent 
•  While holding the vial upright on the flat surface, push the plunger VERY SLOWLY until all 
• 
the solvent is in the vial. This will help to reduce foaming (lots of bubbles) (see Diagram 8). 
Once the solvent is added to the Enbrel, the plunger may move up by itself. This is due to air 
pressure and should not be of concern. 
307 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diagram 8 
•  With the syringe still attached, gently move the vial in circles a few times, to dissolve the 
powder (see Diagram 9). Do NOT shake the vial. Wait until all the powder dissolves (usually 
less than 10 minutes). The solution should be clear and colourless to pale yellow or pale brown, 
with no lumps, flakes, or particles. Some white foam may remain in the vial  this is normal. Do 
NOT use Enbrel if all the powder in the vial is not dissolved within 10 minutes. Start again with 
another dose tray. 
Diagram 9 
e.  Withdrawing the Enbrel solution from the vial 
• 
The doctor or his/her assistant should have instructed you on the proper amount of solution to 
be withdrawn from the vial. If the doctor has not given this instruction, please contact him/her. 
•  With the syringe still attached to the vial and vial adaptor, hold the vial upside down at eye 
level. Push the plunger all the way into the syringe (see Diagram 10). 
Diagram 10 
• 
Then, slowly pull the plunger back to draw the liquid into the syringe (see Diagram 11). 
Remove only the portion of liquid as directed by your child’s doctor. After you have withdrawn 
the Enbrel from the vial, you may have some air in the syringe. Do not be concerned, as you 
will remove the air in a later step. 
308 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diagram 11 
•  With the vial held upside down, unscrew the syringe from the vial adaptor by turning it 
anti-clockwise (see Diagram 12). 
Diagram 12 
• 
f. 
• 
• 
• 
Place the filled syringe on the clean, flat surface. Make sure that the tip does not touch anything. 
Be careful not to push down on the plunger. 
Placing the needle on the syringe 
The needle has been placed in a plastic container to keep it sterile. 
To open the plastic container, hold the short, wide end in one hand. Place your other hand on the 
longer portion of the container. 
To break the seal, bend the larger end down and then up until broken (see Diagram 13). 
Diagram 13 
Once the seal has been broken, remove the short, wide end of the plastic container. 
The needle will remain in the long part of the package. 
• 
• 
•  While holding the needle and container in one hand, pick up the syringe and insert the syringe 
tip into the needle opening. 
Attach the syringe to the needle by turning it clockwise until completely secured (see Diagram 
• 
14). 
309 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diagram 14 
• 
Remove the needle cover by firmly pulling it straight off the syringe taking care not to touch 
the needle or allow the needle to touch any surfaces (see Diagram 15). Be careful not to bend or 
twist the cover during removal to avoid damage to the needle. 
Diagram 15 
•  While holding the syringe upright, remove any air bubbles by slowly pushing on the plunger 
until the air is removed (see Diagram 16). 
Diagram 16 
g. 
• 
Choosing an injection site 
The three recommended injection sites for Enbrel include: (1) the front of the middle thighs; (2) 
the abdomen, except for the 5 cm area right around the navel; and (3) the outer area of the upper 
arms (see Diagram 17). If you are self injecting, you should not use the outer area of the upper 
arms. 
310 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diagram 17 
• 
• 
A different site should be used for each new injection. Each new injection should be given at 
least 3 cm from an old site. Do NOT inject into areas where the skin is tender, bruised, red, or 
hard. Avoid areas with scars or stretch marks. (It may be helpful to keep notes on the location of 
the previous injections.) 
If the child has psoriasis, you should try not to inject directly into any raised, thick, red, or scaly 
skin patches (“psoriasis skin lesions”). 
h. 
Preparing the injection site and injecting the Enbrel solution 
•  Wipe the site where Enbrel is to be injected with a new alcohol swab, using a circular motion. 
Do NOT touch this area again before giving the injection. 
•  When the cleaned area of skin has dried, pinch and hold it firmly with one hand. With the other 
hand, hold the syringe like a pencil. 
•  With a quick, short motion, push the needle all the way into the skin at an angle between 45° 
and 90° (see Diagram 18). With experience, you will find the angle that is most comfortable for 
the child. Be careful not to push the needle into the skin too slowly, or with great force. 
Diagram 18 
•  When the needle is completely inserted into the skin, release the skin that you are holding. With 
your free hand, hold the syringe near its base to stabilise it. Then push the plunger to inject all of 
the solution at a slow, steady rate (see Diagram 19). 
311 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diagram 19 
•  When the syringe is empty, remove the needle from the skin; being careful to keep it at the same 
• 
i. 
• 
angle it was when it was inserted. 
Press a cotton ball over the injection site for 10 seconds. Slight bleeding may occur. Do NOT 
rub the injection site. A bandage is optional. 
Disposing of supplies 
The syringe and needles should NEVER be re-used. Dispose of the needles and syringe as 
instructed by your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
If you have any questions, please talk to a doctor, nurse or pharmacist who is familiar with Enbrel.  
312 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in dose-dispenser cartridge 
etanercept 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Card, which contains important safety information that 
you need to be aware of before and during treatment with Enbrel. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you or a child in your care. Do not pass it on to others. It 
may harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours or those of the child you are 
caring for. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
• 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
Information in this leaflet is organised under the following 6 sections: 
1.  What Enbrel is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Enbrel 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Enbrel 
Possible side effects 
How to store Enbrel 
Contents of the pack and other information (See Instructions for use) 
1.  What Enbrel is and what it is used for 
Enbrel is a medicine that is made from two human proteins. It blocks the activity of another protein in 
the body that causes inflammation. Enbrel works by reducing the inflammation associated with certain 
diseases. 
In adults (aged 18 and over), Enbrel can be used for moderate or severe rheumatoid arthritis, 
psoriatic arthritis, severe axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis, and moderate 
or severe psoriasis – in each case usually when other widely used treatments have not worked well 
enough or are not suitable for you. 
For rheumatoid arthritis, Enbrel is usually used in combination with methotrexate, although it may 
also be used alone if treatment with methotrexate is unsuitable for you. Whether used alone or in 
combination with methotrexate, Enbrel can slow down the damage to your joints caused by the 
rheumatoid arthritis and improve your ability to do normal daily activities. 
For psoriatic arthritis patients with multiple joint involvement, Enbrel can improve your ability to do 
normal daily activities. For patients with multiple symmetrical painful or swollen joints (e.g., hands, 
wrists and feet), Enbrel can slow down the structural damage to those joints caused by the disease.  
Enbrel is also prescribed for the treatment of the following diseases in children and adolescents 
•  For the following types of juvenile idiopathic arthritis when treatment with methotrexate has not 
worked well enough or is not suitable for them: 
•  Polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative) and extended oligoarthritis in 
patients from the age of 2 years 
313 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Psoriatic arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years 
•  For enthesitis-related arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years when other widely used 
treatments have not worked well enough or are not suitable for them 
•  Severe psoriasis in patients from the age of 6 years who have had an inadequate response to (or 
are unable to take) phototherapies or other systemic therapies. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Enbrel  
Do not use Enbrel 
• 
• 
• 
if you, or the child you are caring for, are allergic to etanercept or any of the other ingredients of 
Enbrel (listed in section 6). If you or the child experience allergic reactions such as chest 
tightness, wheezing, dizziness or rash, do not inject more Enbrel, and contact your doctor 
immediately. 
if you or the child have, or are at risk of developing a serious blood infection called sepsis. If 
you are not sure, please contact your doctor. 
if you or the child, have an infection of any kind. If you are not sure, please talk to your doctor. 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before taking Enbrel. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Allergic reactions: If you or the child experience allergic reactions such as chest tightness, 
wheezing, dizziness or rash, do not inject more Enbrel, and contact your doctor immediately. 
Infections/surgery: If you or the child develop a new infection, or are about to have any major 
surgery, your doctor may wish to monitor the treatment with Enbrel. 
Infections/diabetes: Tell your doctor if you or the child have a history of recurrent infections or 
suffer from diabetes or other conditions that increase the risk of infection. 
Infections/monitoring: Tell your doctor of any recent travel outside the European region. If you 
or the child develop symptoms of an infection such as fever, chills or cough, notify your doctor 
immediately. Your doctor may decide to continue to monitor you or the child for the presence of 
infections after you or the child stop using Enbrel. 
Tuberculosis: As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with Enbrel, your 
doctor will check for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Enbrel. This may 
include a thorough medical history, a chest X-ray and a tuberculin test. The conduct of these 
tests should be recorded on the Patient Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor if you 
or the child have ever had tuberculosis, or have been in close contact with someone who has had 
tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (such as persistent cough, weight loss, listlessness, 
mild fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy, tell your doctor immediately. 
Hepatitis B: Tell your doctor if you or the child have or have ever had hepatitis B. Your doctor 
should test for the presence of hepatitis B infection before you or the child begin treatment with 
Enbrel. Treatment with Enbrel may result in reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who have 
previously been infected with the hepatitis B virus. If this occurs, you should stop using Enbrel. 
Hepatitis C: Tell your doctor if you or the child have hepatitis C. Your doctor may wish to 
monitor the treatment with Enbrel in case the infection worsens. 
Blood disorders: Seek medical advice immediately if you or the child have any signs or 
symptoms such as persistent fever, sore throat, bruising, bleeding or paleness. Such symptoms 
may point to the existence of potentially life-threatening blood disorders, which may require 
discontinuation of Enbrel. 
314 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Nervous system and eye disorders: Tell your doctor if you or the child have multiple sclerosis, 
optic neuritis (inflammation of the nerves of the eyes) or transverse myelitis (inflammation of 
the spinal cord). Your doctor will determine if Enbrel is an appropriate treatment. 
Congestive heart failure: Tell your doctor if you or the child have a history of congestive heart 
failure, because Enbrel needs to be used with caution under these circumstances. 
Cancer: Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had lymphoma (a type of blood cancer) or 
any other cancer before you are given Enbrel. 
Patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis, who have had the disease for a long time, may be at 
higher than average risk of developing lymphoma. 
Children and adults taking Enbrel may have an increased risk of developing lymphoma or 
another cancer. 
Some children and teenage patients who have received Enbrel or other medicines that work the 
same way as Enbrel have developed cancers, including unusual types, which sometimes resulted 
in death. 
Some patients receiving Enbrel have developed skin cancers. Tell your doctor if you or the child 
develop any change in the appearance of the skin or growths on the skin. 
Chickenpox: Tell your doctor if you or the child are exposed to chickenpox when using Enbrel. 
Your doctor will determine if preventive treatment for chickenpox is appropriate. 
Latex: The needle cover is made from latex (dry natural rubber). Contact your doctor before 
using Enbrel if the needle cover will be handled by, or Enbrel will be given to, someone with a 
known or possible hypersensitivity (allergy) to latex. 
Alcohol abuse: Enbrel should not be used for the treatment of hepatitis related to alcohol abuse. 
Please tell your doctor if you or the child in your care have a history of alcohol abuse. 
•  Wegener’s granulomatosis: Enbrel is not recommended for the treatment of Wegener’s 
• 
granulomatosis, a rare inflammatory disease. If you or the child in your care have Wegener’s 
granulomatosis, talk to your doctor. 
Anti-diabetic medicines: Tell your doctor if you or the child have diabetes or are taking 
medicines to treat diabetes. Your doctor may decide if you or the child need less anti-diabetic 
medicine while taking Enbrel.  
Children and adolescents  
Vaccinations: If possible, children should be up to date with all vaccinations before using Enbrel. 
Some vaccines, such as oral polio vaccine, should not be given while using Enbrel. Please consult the 
child’s doctor before the child receives any vaccines. 
Enbrel should not normally be used in children with polyarthritis or extended oligoarthritis below the 
age of 2 years, or in children with enthesitis-related arthritis or psoriatic arthritis below the age of 12 
years, or in children with psoriasis below the age of 6 years. 
Other medicines and Enbrel 
Tell the doctor or pharmacist if you or the child are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines (including anakinra, abatacept or sulfasalazine), even those not prescribed by the doctor. 
You or the child should not use Enbrel with medicines that contain the active substance anakinra or 
abatacept. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Enbrel should only be used during pregnancy if clearly needed. You should consult your doctor if you 
become pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby. 
If you received Enbrel during pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk of getting an infection. In 
addition, one study found more birth defects when the mother had received Enbrel in pregnancy, 
compared with mothers who had not received Enbrel or other similar medicines (TNF-antagonists), 
315 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
but there was no particular kind of birth defect reported. Another study found no increased risk of birth 
defects when the mother had received Enbrel in pregnancy. Your doctor will help you to decide 
whether the benefits of treatment outweigh the potential risk to your baby. 
Talk to your doctor if you want to breastfeed while on Enbrel treatment. It is important that you tell 
your baby’s doctors and other healthcare professionals about the use of Enbrel during pregnancy and 
breastfeeding before your baby receives any vaccine. 
Driving and using machines 
The use of Enbrel is not expected to affect the ability to drive or use machines. 
Enbrel contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dosage unit, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3.  How to use Enbrel 
Always use this medicine exactly as the doctor has told you. Check with the doctor or pharmacist if 
you are not sure. 
If you feel that the effect of Enbrel is too strong or too weak, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. 
The dose-dispenser cartridge is available in dose strengths of 25 mg and 50 mg. 
Dosing for adult patients (aged 18 years or over) 
Rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis 
The usual dose is 25 mg given twice a week or 50 mg once a week as an injection under the skin. 
However, your doctor may determine an alternative frequency at which to inject Enbrel.  
Plaque psoriasis 
The usual dose is 25 mg twice a week or 50 mg once a week.   
Alternatively, 50 mg may be given twice a week for up to 12 weeks, followed by 25 mg twice a week 
or 50 mg once a week.  
Your doctor will decide how long you should take Enbrel and whether retreatment is needed based on 
your response. If Enbrel has no effect on your condition after 12 weeks, your doctor may tell you to 
stop taking this medicine. 
Use in children and adolescents 
The appropriate dose and frequency of dosing for the child or adolescent will depend on body weight 
and disease. Your doctor will determine the correct dose for the child and will prescribe an appropriate 
strength of Enbrel (10 mg, 25 mg or 50 mg). 
For polyarthritis or extended oligoarthritis in patients from the age of 2 years, or enthesitis-related 
arthritis or psoriatic arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years, the usual dose is 0.4 mg of Enbrel 
per kg bodyweight (up to a maximum of 25 mg) given twice weekly, or 0.8 mg of Enbrel per kg of 
bodyweight (up to a maximum of 50 mg) given once weekly. 
316 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For psoriasis in patients from the age of 6 years, the usual dose is 0.8 mg of Enbrel per kg bodyweight 
(up to a maximum of 50 mg), and should be given once weekly. If Enbrel has no effect on the child’s 
condition after 12 weeks, your doctor may tell you to stop using this medicine. 
The doctor will provide you with detailed directions for preparing and measuring the appropriate dose. 
Method and route of administration 
Enbrel is administered by an injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection). 
Enbrel can be taken with or without food or drink. 
Detailed instructions on how to inject Enbrel are provided in “Instructions for use”. Do not mix 
the Enbrel solution with any other medicine. 
To help you remember, it may be helpful to write in a diary which day(s) of the week Enbrel should be 
used. 
If you use more Enbrel than you should 
If you have used more Enbrel than you should (either by injecting too much on a single occasion or by 
using it too frequently), talk to a doctor or pharmacist immediately. Always have the outer carton of 
the medicine with you, even if it is empty. 
If you forget to inject Enbrel 
If you forget a dose, you should inject it as soon as you remember, unless the next scheduled dose is 
the next day; in which case you should skip the missed dose. Then continue to inject the medicine on 
the usual day(s). If you do not remember until the day that the next injection is due, do not take a 
double dose (two doses on the same day) to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop using Enbrel  
Your symptoms may return upon discontinuation.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Allergic reactions 
If any of the following happen, do not inject more Enbrel. Tell your doctor immediately, or go to the 
casualty department at your nearest hospital. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Trouble swallowing or breathing 
Swelling of the face, throat, hands, or feet 
Feeling nervous or anxious, throbbing sensations, sudden reddening of the skin and/or a warm 
feeling 
Severe rash, itching, or hives (elevated patches of red or pale skin that often itch) 
Serious allergic reactions are rare. However, any of the above symptoms may indicate an allergic 
reaction to Enbrel, so you should seek immediate medical attention. 
317 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious side effects 
If you notice any of the following, you or the child may need urgent medical attention. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Signs of serious infections, such as high fever that may be accompanied by cough, shortness of 
breath, chills, weakness, or a hot, red, tender, sore area on the skin or joints 
Signs of blood disorders, such as bleeding, bruising, or paleness 
Signs of nerve disorders, such as numbness or tingling, changes in vision, eye pain, or onset of 
weakness in an arm or leg 
Signs of heart failure or worsening heart failure, such as fatigue or shortness of breath with 
activity, swelling in the ankles, a feeling of fullness in the neck or abdomen, night-time 
shortness of breath or coughing, bluish colour of the nails or the lips 
Signs of cancers: Cancers may affect any part of the body including the skin and blood, and 
possible signs will depend on the type and location of the cancer. These signs may include 
weight loss, fever, swelling (with or without pain), persistent cough, presence of lumps or 
growths on the skin 
Signs of autoimmune reactions (where antibodies are made that may harm normal tissues in 
the body) such as pain, itching, weakness, and abnormal breathing, thinking, sensation, or vision 
Signs of lupus or lupus-like syndrome, such as weight changes, persistent rash, fever, joint or 
muscle pain, or fatigue 
Signs of inflammation of the blood vessels such as pain, fever, redness or warmth of the skin, 
or itching. 
These are rare or uncommon side effects, but are serious conditions (some of which may rarely be 
fatal). If these signs occur, tell your doctor immediately, or visit the casualty department at your 
nearest hospital. 
The known side effects of Enbrel include the following in groups of decreasing frequency: 
• 
• 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
Infections (including colds, sinusitis, bronchitis, urinary tract infections and skin infections); 
injection site reactions (including bleeding, bruising, redness, itching, pain, and swelling) (these 
do not occur as often after the first month of treatment; some patients have developed a reaction 
at an injection site that was recently used); and headache. 
• 
• 
• 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
Allergic reactions; fever; rash; itching; antibodies directed against normal tissue (autoantibody 
formation). 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
•  Serious infections (including pneumonia, deep skin infections, joint infections, blood infection, 
and infections at various sites); worsening of congestive heart failure; low red blood cell count, 
low white blood cell count, low neutrophil (a type of white blood cell) count; low blood platelet 
count; skin cancer (excluding melanoma); localised swelling of the skin (angioedema); hives 
(elevated patches of red or pale skin that often itch); eye inflammation; psoriasis (new or 
worsening); inflammation of the blood vessels affecting multiple organs; elevated liver blood 
tests (in patients also receiving methotrexate treatment, the frequency of elevated liver blood 
tests is common); abdominal cramps and pain, diarrhoea, weight loss or blood in the stool 
(signs of bowel problems). 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
Serious allergic reactions (including severe localised swelling of the skin and wheezing); 
lymphoma (a type of blood cancer); leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow); 
melanoma (a type of skin cancer); combined low platelet, red, and white blood cell count; 
nervous system disorders (with severe muscle weakness and signs and symptoms similar to 
318 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
those of multiple sclerosis or inflammation of the nerves of the eyes or spinal cord); 
tuberculosis; new onset congestive heart failure; seizures; lupus or lupus-like syndrome 
(symptoms may include persistent rash, fever, joint pain, and tiredness); skin rash, which may 
lead to severe blistering and peeling of the skin; lichenoid reactions (itchy reddish-purple skin 
rash and/or threadlike white-grey lines on mucous membranes); inflammation of the liver 
caused by the body's own immune system (autoimmune hepatitis; in patients also receiving 
methotrexate treatment, the frequency is uncommon); immune disorder that can affect the 
lungs, skin and lymph nodes (sarcoidosis); inflammation or scarring of the lungs (in patients 
also receiving methotrexate treatment, the frequency of inflammation or scarring of the lungs is 
uncommon). 
• 
• 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): failure of the bone marrow to produce crucial 
blood cells. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): Merkel cell carcinoma (a 
type of skin cancer); Kaposi’s sarcoma (a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes 
virus 8. Kaposi’s sarcoma most commonly appear as purple lesions on the skin); excessive 
activation of white blood cells associated with inflammation (macrophage activation 
syndrome); recurrence of hepatitis B (a liver infection); damage to the tiny filters inside your 
kidneys leading to poor kidney function (glomerulonephritis), worsening of a condition called 
dermatomyositis (muscle inflammation and weakness with an accompanying skin rash). 
Side effects in children and adolescents 
The side effects and their frequencies seen in children and adolescents are similar to those described 
above. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Enbrel 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and the label after “EXP”. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the dose-dispenser cartridge in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
After taking a dose-dispenser cartridge from the refrigerator, wait approximately 15-30 minutes to 
allow the Enbrel solution in the dose-dispenser cartridge to reach room temperature. Do not warm in 
any other way. Immediate use is then recommended. 
The dose-dispenser cartridges may be stored at room temperature (up to 25°C) for a single period of 
up to 4 weeks with protection from light; after which they should not be refrigerated again. Enbrel 
should be discarded if not used within four weeks after removal from the refrigerator. It is 
recommended that you record the date that the Enbrel dose-dispenser is removed from the refrigerator 
and the date after which Enbrel should be discarded (no more than 4 weeks following the removal 
from the refrigerator). 
319 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inspect the solution in the dose-dispenser cartridge by looking through the inspection window. The 
solution should be clear or slightly opalescent, colourless to pale yellow or pale brown, and may 
contain small white or almost transparent particles of protein. This appearance is normal for Enbrel. 
Do not use the solution if it is discoloured, cloudy, or if particles other than those described above are 
present. If you are concerned with the appearance of the solution, then contact your pharmacist for 
assistance. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information  
What Enbrel contains 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in dose-dispenser cartridge 
The active substance in Enbrel is etanercept. Each dose-dispenser cartridge contains 0.5 ml of 
solution, providing 25 mg of etanercept. 
The other ingredients are sucrose, sodium chloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, sodium phosphate 
monobasic dihydrate and sodium phosphate dibasic dihydrate, and water for injections. 
What Enbrel looks like and contents of the pack 
Enbrel is provided as a solution for injection in a ready to use dose-dispenser cartridge. The 
dose-dispenser cartridge is to be used with SMARTCLIC device. The device is provided separately. 
The solution is clear to opalescent, colourless to pale yellow or pale brown. 
Enbrel 25 mg solution for injection in dose-dispenser cartridge 
Cartons contain 4, 8 or 24 dose-dispenser cartridges with 8, 16 or 48 alcohol swabs. Not all pack sizes 
may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
Manufacturer 
Pfizer Manufacturing Belgium NV 
Rijksweg 12, 
2870 Puurs-Sint-Amands 
Belgium 
For any information about this medicinal product, please contact the local representative of the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Pfizer NV/SA 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11 
Kύπρος 
PFIZER EΛΛAΣ A.E. (CYPRUS BRANCH)  
Tηλ: +357 22 817690 
320 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Česká Republika 
Pfizer, spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +420-283-004-111 
Danmark 
Pfizer ApS 
Tlf: +45 44 201 100 
Deutschland 
Pfizer Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000 
България  
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ,  
Клон България  
Teл: +359 2 970 4333 
Magyarország 
Pfizer Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 488 3700 
Malta 
Vivian Corporation Ltd. 
Tel: +35621 344610 
Nederland 
Pfizer bv 
Tel: +31 (0)800 63 34 636 
Norge 
Pfizer AS 
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00 
Eesti 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 666 7500 
Österreich 
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0 
Ελλάδα 
PFIZER EΛΛAΣ A.E. 
Τηλ.: +30 210 67 85 800 
España 
Pfizer, S.L. 
Télf: +34 91 490 99 00 
France 
Pfizer 
Tél +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40 
Hrvatska 
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 3908 777 
Ireland 
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland 
Tel: +1800 633 363 (toll free) 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Tel: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Pfizer S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21 
Polska 
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00 
Portugal 
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda. 
Tel: (+351) 21 423 55 00 
România 
Pfizer Romania S.R.L 
Tel: +40 (0) 21 207 28 00 
Slovenija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, Pfizer, podružnica  
za svetovanje s področja farmacevtske  
dejavnosti, Ljubljana  
Tel: +386 (0)1 52 11 400 
Slovenská Republika 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka  
Tel: +421 2 3355 5500 
Suomi/Finland 
Pfizer Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 430 040 
Sverige  
Pfizer AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00 
321 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Latvija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā 
Tel. +371 67035775 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Pfizer Limited 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Lietuva 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas Lietuvoje 
Tel. +3705 2514000 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
322 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for use 
Enbrel  
(etanercept) 
25 mg / 0.5 ml 
For Subcutaneous Injection Only 
Important Information 
•  Keep this Instructions for use, it shows step-by-step how to prepare and give an injection. 
•  Only use Enbrel after you read and understand this Instructions for use. 
•  Only use Enbrel after you have received training from your healthcare professional. 
•  Your Dose Dispenser Cartridge contains a single dose of Enbrel and must only be used with 
your SMARTCLIC Device. 
•  Dose Dispenser Cartridge and SMARTCLIC Device will be referred to as “Cartridge” and 
• 
“Device” in this Instructions for use. 
If this is the first time you are using your Device, make sure you follow the setup instructions 
in the separate User Manual. You will not be able to use your Device until you complete the 
setup. 
•  Do not attempt to use your Cartridges with any other Device. 
•  Do not share your Cartridges or your Device with another person. 
•  Do not shake your Cartridges or your Device containing a Cartridge. 
•  Do not reuse your Cartridge if the needle cap has been removed. 
•  Avoid spilling liquid on your Cartridges or your Device. Never rinse or put your Cartridges or 
your Device under water. 
•  Refer to the additional Device User Manual for accessing menus, using a Training Cartridge, 
advanced use and troubleshooting error messages. 
Storage 
•  Store Cartridges in the refrigerator between 2 ºC to 8 ºC. Do not freeze your Cartridges. Do 
not store your Cartridges in your Device. 
•  Store Cartridges in their original Carton until use to protect from direct sunlight. 
•  You may store your Cartridges at room temperature up to 25 ºC for up to 4 weeks. Do not 
return them to the refrigerator after they have reached room temperature. 
•  Keep your Cartridges and your Device out of sight and reach of children and adolescents. 
•  Refer to your Device User Manual for how to store and clean your Device. 
Supplies you need 
•  Gather the following supplies on a clean flat surface: 
o  Enbrel Carton containing Cartridges 
o  your SMARTCLIC Device 
o  alcohol wipes 
o  clean cotton balls or gauze pads (not included) 
o  a suitable sharps container (not included). 
•  Do not use if the Carton is dropped or damaged. 
Note: If you do not have everything you need, ask your healthcare professional. 
323 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your Device: 
Refer to User Manual for more information. 
Your Cartridge: 
324 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preparation Steps 
•  Remove 1 Cartridge from the tray inside the Carton. 
•  Put the Carton and tray with any unused Cartridges back in the refrigerator. 
•  Wash and dry your hands. 
•  For a more comfortable injection leave your Cartridge at room temperature for approximately 
15 - 30 minutes away from direct sunlight. 
Do not use any other methods to warm up your Cartridge. 
•  Check the expiry date and medication dose printed on the label. Do not use if the expiry date 
has passed or if it is not your prescribed medication dose. 
•  Check your Cartridge, do not use if: 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
it has been dropped even if it does not look damaged 
it is damaged 
the needle cap is loose 
it has been frozen or exposed to heat 
it has been at room temperature for more than 4 weeks 
it has been returned to the refrigerator after reaching room temperature. 
•  Do not remove the needle cap until instructed to do so. 
325 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Inspect the medicine through the Inspection window, it should be clear or slightly opalescent, 
colourless to pale yellow or pale brown, and may contain small white or almost transparent 
particles of protein, this is normal. 
•  Do not use the medicine if it is discoloured, cloudy, or has particles other than those described 
above. 
•  Do not shake your Cartridge. 
Note: If you have any questions about your medicine, contact your healthcare professional. 
•  Always choose an area in your abdomen, upper thighs or the outer area of the upper arms 
(caregiver only). 
•  Choose an injection site at least 3 cm from where you last injected and at least 5 cm away 
from your belly button (navel). 
•  Do not inject into bony areas or areas on your skin that are broken, bruised, red, sore (tender) 
or hard. Avoid injecting into areas with scars or stretch marks. 
•  Do not inject through your clothes. 
Note: If you have psoriasis, do not inject directly into any raised, thick, red, or scaly skin 
patches or lesions on your skin. 
•  Clean your injection site with the supplied alcohol wipe and allow to dry. 
326 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Clean the injection end of your Device with the separate supplied alcohol wipe. 
•  Allow the injection end to dry before giving an injection. 
Injection Steps 
•  Push your Cartridge firmly straight through the Cartridge door without twisting until you 
cannot push it any further. Your Device will turn on when your Cartridge has been inserted 
correctly. 
•  Check the Display shows 25 mg and the expiry date has not passed. 
Note: Your Device will turn off after 90 seconds of inactivity. Press and hold the Injection 
button to turn your Device back on. 
327 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Remove the needle cap by pulling it firmly downwards. 
•  Dispose of the needle cap in a suitable sharps container. 
• 
Inject as soon as possible after removing the needle cap. 
•  Do not replace the needle cap. 
Caution: Do not insert your fingers into your Device after removing the needle cap to avoid a 
needle stick injury. 
Note: To cancel the injection and eject your Cartridge, press the Cancel / Eject button 
1 second. 
 for 
•  Place your Device with the blue arrow pointing at 90 degrees towards your injection site. 
•  Make sure you can see the Display on your Device. 
•  Do not pinch the skin around your injection site. 
Caution: If you drop your Device with a Cartridge inserted, eject and dispose of your 
Cartridge. 
Refer to the Troubleshooting page in the Device User Manual. 
328 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Press & hold the Injection button to begin your injection when instructed by the Display. 
Note: You can release the Injection button after your injection has started. 
•  Hold your Device against your skin and wait while your medication is injected. 
•  Watch the Display on your Device. 
•  Do not move, tilt or remove your Device from your skin until instructed by the Display. 
Note: If you remove your Device before instructed, do not place it back on the injection site 
or inject another dose. Contact your healthcare professional for advice. 
329 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Lift & hold your Device away from your skin. Your Device will display that your injection is 
complete. 
•  Wait. Your Cartridge will be partially ejected from the bottom of your Device. This may take 
up to 10 seconds. 
Do not cover the bottom of your Device during this time. 
Do not insert your fingers inside your Device as the needle will be exposed during this time. 
If you notice a spot of blood, press a cotton ball or gauze over the injection site until the 
bleeding stops. Do not rub. 
• 
•  Pull your Cartridge straight out after your Device has partially ejected it. 
•  Check your Cartridge is empty of medicine with a grey bar visible in the Inspection window. 
If not, you may not have received your full dose. Contact your healthcare professional for 
advice. 
•  Do not reuse your Cartridge or reinsert it into your Device. 
•  Dispose of the used Cartridge straight away in a suitable sharps container as instructed by 
your healthcare professional or pharmacist and in accordance with local health and safety 
laws. 
--End of Instructions for Use-- 
330 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in dose-dispenser cartridge 
etanercept 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Card, which contains important safety information that 
you need to be aware of before and during treatment with Enbrel. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you or a child in your care. Do not pass it on to others. It 
may harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours or those of the child you are 
caring for. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
• 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
Information in this leaflet is organised under the following 6 sections: 
1.  What Enbrel is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Enbrel 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Enbrel 
Possible side effects 
How to store Enbrel 
Contents of the pack and other information (See Instructions for use) 
1.  What Enbrel is and what it is used for 
Enbrel is a medicine that is made from two human proteins. It blocks the activity of another protein in 
the body that causes inflammation. Enbrel works by reducing the inflammation associated with certain 
diseases. 
In adults (aged 18 and over), Enbrel can be used for moderate or severe rheumatoid arthritis, 
psoriatic arthritis, severe axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis, and moderate 
or severe psoriasis – in each case usually when other widely used treatments have not worked well 
enough or are not suitable for you. 
For rheumatoid arthritis, Enbrel is usually used in combination with methotrexate, although it may 
also be used alone if treatment with methotrexate is unsuitable for you. Whether used alone or in 
combination with methotrexate, Enbrel can slow down the damage to your joints caused by the 
rheumatoid arthritis and improve your ability to do normal daily activities. 
For psoriatic arthritis patients with multiple joint involvement, Enbrel can improve your ability to do 
normal daily activities. For patients with multiple symmetrical painful or swollen joints (e.g., hands, 
wrists and feet), Enbrel can slow down the structural damage to those joints caused by the disease.  
Enbrel is also prescribed for the treatment of the following diseases in children and adolescents 
•  For the following types of juvenile idiopathic arthritis when treatment with methotrexate has not 
worked well enough or is not suitable for them: 
•  Polyarthritis (rheumatoid factor positive or negative) and extended oligoarthritis in 
patients from the age of 2 years 
331 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Psoriatic arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years 
•  For enthesitis-related arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years when other widely used 
treatments have not worked well enough or are not suitable for them 
•  Severe psoriasis in patients from the age of 6 years who have had an inadequate response to (or 
are unable to take) phototherapies or other systemic therapies. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Enbrel  
Do not use Enbrel 
• 
• 
• 
if you, or the child you are caring for, are allergic to etanercept or any of the other ingredients of 
Enbrel (listed in section 6). If you or the child experience allergic reactions such as chest 
tightness, wheezing, dizziness or rash, do not inject more Enbrel, and contact your doctor 
immediately. 
if you or the child have, or are at risk of developing a serious blood infection called sepsis. If 
you are not sure, please contact your doctor. 
if you or the child, have an infection of any kind. If you are not sure, please talk to your doctor. 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before taking Enbrel. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Allergic reactions: If you or the child experience allergic reactions such as chest tightness, 
wheezing, dizziness or rash, do not inject more Enbrel, and contact your doctor immediately. 
Infections/surgery: If you or the child develop a new infection, or are about to have any major 
surgery, your doctor may wish to monitor the treatment with Enbrel. 
Infections/diabetes: Tell your doctor if you or the child have a history of recurrent infections or 
suffer from diabetes or other conditions that increase the risk of infection. 
Infections/monitoring: Tell your doctor of any recent travel outside the European region. If you 
or the child develop symptoms of an infection such as fever, chills or cough, notify your doctor 
immediately. Your doctor may decide to continue to monitor you or the child for the presence of 
infections after you or the child stop using Enbrel. 
Tuberculosis: As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with Enbrel, your 
doctor will check for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Enbrel. This may 
include a thorough medical history, a chest X-ray and a tuberculin test. The conduct of these 
tests should be recorded on the Patient Card. It is very important that you tell your doctor if you 
or the child have ever had tuberculosis, or have been in close contact with someone who has had 
tuberculosis. If symptoms of tuberculosis (such as persistent cough, weight loss, listlessness, 
mild fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy, tell your doctor immediately. 
Hepatitis B: Tell your doctor if you or the child have or have ever had hepatitis B. Your doctor 
should test for the presence of hepatitis B infection before you or the child begin treatment with 
Enbrel. Treatment with Enbrel may result in reactivation of hepatitis B in patients who have 
previously been infected with the hepatitis B virus. If this occurs, you should stop using Enbrel. 
Hepatitis C: Tell your doctor if you or the child have hepatitis C. Your doctor may wish to 
monitor the treatment with Enbrel in case the infection worsens. 
Blood disorders: Seek medical advice immediately if you or the child have any signs or 
symptoms such as persistent fever, sore throat, bruising, bleeding or paleness. Such symptoms 
may point to the existence of potentially life-threatening blood disorders, which may require 
discontinuation of Enbrel. 
332 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Nervous system and eye disorders: Tell your doctor if you or the child have multiple sclerosis, 
optic neuritis (inflammation of the nerves of the eyes) or transverse myelitis (inflammation of 
the spinal cord). Your doctor will determine if Enbrel is an appropriate treatment. 
Congestive heart failure: Tell your doctor if you or the child have a history of congestive heart 
failure, because Enbrel needs to be used with caution under these circumstances. 
Cancer: Tell your doctor if you have or have ever had lymphoma (a type of blood cancer) or 
any other cancer before you are given Enbrel. 
Patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis, who have had the disease for a long time, may be at 
higher than average risk of developing lymphoma. 
Children and adults taking Enbrel may have an increased risk of developing lymphoma or 
another cancer. 
Some children and teenage patients who have received Enbrel or other medicines that work the 
same way as Enbrel have developed cancers, including unusual types, which sometimes resulted 
in death. 
Some patients receiving Enbrel have developed skin cancers. Tell your doctor if you or the child 
develop any change in the appearance of the skin or growths on the skin. 
Chickenpox: Tell your doctor if you or the child are exposed to chickenpox when using Enbrel. 
Your doctor will determine if preventive treatment for chickenpox is appropriate. 
Latex: The needle cover is made from latex (dry natural rubber). Contact your doctor before 
using Enbrel if the needle cover will be handled by, or Enbrel will be given to, someone with a 
known or possible hypersensitivity (allergy) to latex. 
Alcohol abuse: Enbrel should not be used for the treatment of hepatitis related to alcohol abuse. 
Please tell your doctor if you or the child in your care have a history of alcohol abuse. 
•  Wegener’s granulomatosis: Enbrel is not recommended for the treatment of Wegener’s 
• 
granulomatosis, a rare inflammatory disease. If you or the child in your care have Wegener’s 
granulomatosis, talk to your doctor. 
Anti-diabetic medicines: Tell your doctor if you or the child have diabetes or are taking 
medicines to treat diabetes. Your doctor may decide if you or the child need less anti-diabetic 
medicine while taking Enbrel.  
Children and adolescents  
Vaccinations: If possible, children should be up to date with all vaccinations before using Enbrel. 
Some vaccines, such as oral polio vaccine, should not be given while using Enbrel. Please consult the 
child’s doctor before the child receives any vaccines. 
Enbrel should not normally be used in children with polyarthritis or extended oligoarthritis below the 
age of 2 years, or in children with enthesitis-related arthritis or psoriatic arthritis below the age of 12 
years, or in children with psoriasis below the age of 6 years. 
Other medicines and Enbrel 
Tell the doctor or pharmacist if you or the child are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines (including anakinra, abatacept or sulfasalazine), even those not prescribed by the doctor. 
You or the child should not use Enbrel with medicines that contain the active substance anakinra or 
abatacept. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Enbrel should only be used during pregnancy if clearly needed. You should consult your doctor if you 
become pregnant, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby. 
If you received Enbrel during pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk of getting an infection. In 
addition, one study found more birth defects when the mother had received Enbrel in pregnancy, 
compared with mothers who had not received Enbrel or other similar medicines (TNF-antagonists), 
333 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
but there was no particular kind of birth defect reported. Another study found no increased risk of birth 
defects when the mother had received Enbrel in pregnancy. Your doctor will help you to decide 
whether the benefits of treatment outweigh the potential risk to your baby. 
Talk to your doctor if you want to breastfeed while on Enbrel treatment. It is important that you tell 
your baby’s doctors and other healthcare professionals about the use of Enbrel during pregnancy and 
breastfeeding before your baby receives any vaccine. 
Driving and using machines 
The use of Enbrel is not expected to affect the ability to drive or use machines. 
Enbrel contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dosage unit, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3.  How to use Enbrel 
Always use this medicine exactly as the doctor has told you. Check with the doctor or pharmacist if 
you are not sure. 
If you feel that the effect of Enbrel is too strong or too weak, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. 
The dose-dispenser cartridge is available in dose strengths of 25 mg and 50 mg. 
Dosing for adult patients (aged 18 years or over) 
Rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis 
The usual dose is 25 mg given twice a week or 50 mg once a week as an injection under the skin. 
However, your doctor may determine an alternative frequency at which to inject Enbrel.  
Plaque psoriasis 
The usual dose is 25 mg twice a week or 50 mg once a week.   
Alternatively, 50 mg may be given twice a week for up to 12 weeks, followed by 25 mg twice a week 
or 50 mg once a week.  
Your doctor will decide how long you should take Enbrel and whether retreatment is needed based on 
your response. If Enbrel has no effect on your condition after 12 weeks, your doctor may tell you to 
stop taking this medicine. 
Use in children and adolescents 
The appropriate dose and frequency of dosing for the child or adolescent will depend on body weight 
and disease. Your doctor will determine the correct dose for the child and will prescribe an appropriate 
strength of Enbrel (10 mg, 25 mg or 50 mg). 
For polyarthritis or extended oligoarthritis in patients from the age of 2 years, or enthesitis-related 
arthritis or psoriatic arthritis in patients from the age of 12 years, the usual dose is 0.4 mg of Enbrel 
per kg bodyweight (up to a maximum of 25 mg) given twice weekly, or 0.8 mg of Enbrel per kg of 
bodyweight (up to a maximum of 50 mg) given once weekly. 
334 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For psoriasis in patients from the age of 6 years, the usual dose is 0.8 mg of Enbrel per kg bodyweight 
(up to a maximum of 50 mg), and should be given once weekly. If Enbrel has no effect on the child’s 
condition after 12 weeks, your doctor may tell you to stop using this medicine. 
The doctor will provide you with detailed directions for preparing and measuring the appropriate dose. 
Method and route of administration 
Enbrel is administered by an injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection). 
Enbrel can be taken with or without food or drink. 
Detailed instructions on how to inject Enbrel are provided in “Instructions for use”. Do not mix 
the Enbrel solution with any other medicine. 
To help you remember, it may be helpful to write in a diary which day(s) of the week Enbrel should be 
used. 
If you use more Enbrel than you should 
If you have used more Enbrel than you should (either by injecting too much on a single occasion or by 
using it too frequently), talk to a doctor or pharmacist immediately. Always have the outer carton of 
the medicine with you, even if it is empty. 
If you forget to inject Enbrel 
If you forget a dose, you should inject it as soon as you remember, unless the next scheduled dose is 
the next day; in which case you should skip the missed dose. Then continue to inject the medicine on 
the usual day(s). If you do not remember until the day that the next injection is due, do not take a 
double dose (two doses on the same day) to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop using Enbrel  
Your symptoms may return upon discontinuation.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Allergic reactions 
If any of the following happen, do not inject more Enbrel. Tell your doctor immediately, or go to the 
casualty department at your nearest hospital. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Trouble swallowing or breathing 
Swelling of the face, throat, hands, or feet 
Feeling nervous or anxious, throbbing sensations, sudden reddening of the skin and/or a warm 
feeling 
Severe rash, itching, or hives (elevated patches of red or pale skin that often itch) 
Serious allergic reactions are rare. However, any of the above symptoms may indicate an allergic 
reaction to Enbrel, so you should seek immediate medical attention. 
335 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious side effects 
If you notice any of the following, you or the child may need urgent medical attention. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Signs of serious infections, such as high fever that may be accompanied by cough, shortness of 
breath, chills, weakness, or a hot, red, tender, sore area on the skin or joints 
Signs of blood disorders, such as bleeding, bruising, or paleness 
Signs of nerve disorders, such as numbness or tingling, changes in vision, eye pain, or onset of 
weakness in an arm or leg 
Signs of heart failure or worsening heart failure, such as fatigue or shortness of breath with 
activity, swelling in the ankles, a feeling of fullness in the neck or abdomen, night-time 
shortness of breath or coughing, bluish colour of the nails or the lips 
Signs of cancers: Cancers may affect any part of the body including the skin and blood, and 
possible signs will depend on the type and location of the cancer. These signs may include 
weight loss, fever, swelling (with or without pain), persistent cough, presence of lumps or 
growths on the skin 
Signs of autoimmune reactions (where antibodies are made that may harm normal tissues in 
the body) such as pain, itching, weakness, and abnormal breathing, thinking, sensation, or vision 
Signs of lupus or lupus-like syndrome, such as weight changes, persistent rash, fever, joint or 
muscle pain, or fatigue 
Signs of inflammation of the blood vessels such as pain, fever, redness or warmth of the skin, 
or itching. 
These are rare or uncommon side effects, but are serious conditions (some of which may rarely be 
fatal). If these signs occur, tell your doctor immediately, or visit the casualty department at your 
nearest hospital. 
The known side effects of Enbrel include the following in groups of decreasing frequency: 
• 
• 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
Infections (including colds, sinusitis, bronchitis, urinary tract infections and skin infections); 
injection site reactions (including bleeding, bruising, redness, itching, pain, and swelling) (these 
do not occur as often after the first month of treatment; some patients have developed a reaction 
at an injection site that was recently used); and headache. 
• 
• 
• 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
Allergic reactions; fever; rash; itching; antibodies directed against normal tissue (autoantibody 
formation). 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
•  Serious infections (including pneumonia, deep skin infections, joint infections, blood infection, 
and infections at various sites); worsening of congestive heart failure; low red blood cell count, 
low white blood cell count, low neutrophil (a type of white blood cell) count; low blood platelet 
count; skin cancer (excluding melanoma); localised swelling of the skin (angioedema); hives 
(elevated patches of red or pale skin that often itch); eye inflammation; psoriasis (new or 
worsening); inflammation of the blood vessels affecting multiple organs; elevated liver blood 
tests (in patients also receiving methotrexate treatment, the frequency of elevated liver blood 
tests is common); abdominal cramps and pain, diarrhoea, weight loss or blood in the stool 
(signs of bowel problems). 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
Serious allergic reactions (including severe localised swelling of the skin and wheezing); 
lymphoma (a type of blood cancer); leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow); 
melanoma (a type of skin cancer); combined low platelet, red, and white blood cell count; 
nervous system disorders (with severe muscle weakness and signs and symptoms similar to 
336 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
those of multiple sclerosis or inflammation of the nerves of the eyes or spinal cord); 
tuberculosis; new onset congestive heart failure; seizures; lupus or lupus-like syndrome 
(symptoms may include persistent rash, fever, joint pain, and tiredness); skin rash, which may 
lead to severe blistering and peeling of the skin; lichenoid reactions (itchy reddish-purple skin 
rash and/or threadlike white-grey lines on mucous membranes); inflammation of the liver 
caused by the body's own immune system (autoimmune hepatitis; in patients also receiving 
methotrexate treatment, the frequency is uncommon); immune disorder that can affect the 
lungs, skin and lymph nodes (sarcoidosis); inflammation or scarring of the lungs (in patients 
also receiving methotrexate treatment, the frequency of inflammation or scarring of the lungs is 
uncommon). 
• 
• 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): failure of the bone marrow to produce crucial 
blood cells. 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): Merkel cell carcinoma (a 
type of skin cancer); Kaposi’s sarcoma (a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes 
virus 8. Kaposi’s sarcoma most commonly appear as purple lesions on the skin); excessive 
activation of white blood cells associated with inflammation (macrophage activation 
syndrome); recurrence of hepatitis B (a liver infection); damage to the tiny filters inside your 
kidneys leading to poor kidney function (glomerulonephritis), worsening of a condition called 
dermatomyositis (muscle inflammation and weakness with an accompanying skin rash). 
Side effects in children and adolescents 
The side effects and their frequencies seen in children and adolescents are similar to those described 
above. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Enbrel 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and the label after “EXP”. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the dose-dispenser cartridge in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
After taking a dose-dispenser cartridge from the refrigerator, wait approximately 15-30 minutes to 
allow the Enbrel solution in the dose-dispenser cartridge to reach room temperature. Do not warm in 
any other way. Immediate use is then recommended. 
The dose-dispenser cartridges may be stored at room temperature (up to 25°C) for a single period of 
up to 4 weeks with protection from light; after which they should not be refrigerated again. Enbrel 
should be discarded if not used within four weeks after removal from the refrigerator. It is 
recommended that you record the date that the Enbrel dose-dispenser is removed from the refrigerator 
and the date after which Enbrel should be discarded (no more than 4 weeks following the removal 
from the refrigerator). 
337 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inspect the solution in the dose-dispenser cartridge by looking through the inspection window. The 
solution should be clear or slightly opalescent, colourless to pale yellow or pale brown, and may 
contain small white or almost transparent particles of protein. This appearance is normal for Enbrel. 
Do not use the solution if it is discoloured, cloudy, or if particles other than those described above are 
present. If you are concerned with the appearance of the solution, then contact your pharmacist for 
assistance. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information  
What Enbrel contains 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in dose-dispenser cartridge 
The active substance in Enbrel is etanercept. Each dose-dispenser cartridge contains 1.0 ml of 
solution, providing 50 mg of etanercept. 
The other ingredients are sucrose, sodium chloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, sodium phosphate 
monobasic dihydrate and sodium phosphate dibasic dihydrate, and water for injections. 
What Enbrel looks like and contents of the pack 
Enbrel is provided as a solution for injection in a ready to use dose-dispenser cartridge. The 
dose-dispenser cartridge is to be used with SMARTCLIC device. The device is provided separately. 
The solution is clear to opalescent, colourless to pale yellow or pale brown. 
Enbrel 50 mg solution for injection in dose-dispenser cartridge 
Cartons contain 2, 4 or 12 dose-dispenser cartridges with 4, 8 or 24 alcohol swabs. Not all pack sizes 
may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG 
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles 
Belgium 
Manufacturer  
Pfizer Manufacturing Belgium NV 
Rijksweg 12, 
2870 Puurs-Sint-Amands 
Belgium 
For any information about this medicinal product, please contact the local representative of the 
Marketing Authorisation Holder. 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Pfizer NV/SA 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11 
Kύπρος 
PFIZER EΛΛAΣ A.E. (CYPRUS BRANCH)  
Tηλ: +357 22 817690 
338 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Česká Republika 
Pfizer, spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +420-283-004-111 
Danmark 
Pfizer ApS 
Tlf: +45 44 201 100 
Deutschland 
Pfizer Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000 
България  
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ,  
Клон България  
Teл: +359 2 970 4333 
Magyarország 
Pfizer Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 488 3700 
Malta 
Vivian Corporation Ltd. 
Tel: +35621 344610 
Nederland 
Pfizer bv 
Tel: +31 (0)800 63 34 636 
Norge 
Pfizer AS 
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00 
Eesti 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 666 7500 
Österreich 
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0 
Ελλάδα 
PFIZER EΛΛAΣ A.E. 
Τηλ.: +30 210 67 85 800 
España 
Pfizer, S.L. 
Télf: +34 91 490 99 00 
France 
Pfizer 
Tél +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40 
Hrvatska 
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 3908 777 
Ireland 
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland 
Tel: +1800 633 363 (toll free) 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Tel: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Pfizer S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21 
Polska 
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00 
Portugal 
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda. 
Tel: (+351) 21 423 55 00 
România 
Pfizer Romania S.R.L 
Tel: +40 (0) 21 207 28 00 
Slovenija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, Pfizer, podružnica  
za svetovanje s področja farmacevtske  
dejavnosti, Ljubljana  
Tel: +386 (0)1 52 11 400 
Slovenská Republika 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka  
Tel: +421 2 3355 5500 
Suomi/Finland 
Pfizer Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 430 040 
Sverige  
Pfizer AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00 
339 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Latvija 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā 
Tel. +371 67035775 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Pfizer Limited 
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161 
Lietuva 
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas Lietuvoje 
Tel. +3705 2514000 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
340 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for use 
Enbrel  
(etanercept) 
50 mg / 1 ml 
For Subcutaneous Injection Only 
Important Information 
•  Keep this Instructions for use, it shows step-by-step how to prepare and give an injection. 
•  Only use Enbrel after you read and understand this Instructions for use. 
•  Only use Enbrel after you have received training from your healthcare professional. 
•  Your Dose Dispenser Cartridge contains a single dose of Enbrel and must only be used with 
your SMARTCLIC Device. 
•  Dose Dispenser Cartridge and SMARTCLIC Device will be referred to as “Cartridge” and 
• 
“Device” in this Instructions for use. 
If this is the first time you are using your Device, make sure you follow the setup instructions 
in the separate User Manual. You will not be able to use your Device until you complete the 
setup. 
•  Do not attempt to use your Cartridges with any other Device. 
•  Do not share your Cartridges or your Device with another person. 
•  Do not shake your Cartridges or your Device containing a Cartridge. 
•  Do not reuse your Cartridge if the needle cap has been removed. 
•  Avoid spilling liquid on your Cartridges or your Device. Never rinse or put your Cartridges or 
your Device under water. 
•  Refer to the additional Device User Manual for accessing menus, using a Training Cartridge, 
advanced use and troubleshooting error messages. 
Storage 
•  Store Cartridges in the refrigerator between 2 ºC to 8 ºC. Do not freeze your Cartridges. Do 
not store your Cartridges in your Device. 
•  Store Cartridges in their original Carton until use to protect from direct sunlight. 
•  You may store your Cartridges at room temperature up to 25 ºC for up to 4 weeks. Do not 
return them to the refrigerator after they have reached room temperature. 
•  Keep your Cartridges and your Device out of sight and reach of children and adolescents. 
•  Refer to your Device User Manual for how to store and clean your Device. 
Supplies you need 
•  Gather the following supplies on a clean flat surface: 
o  Enbrel Carton containing Cartridges 
o  your SMARTCLIC Device 
o  alcohol wipes 
o  clean cotton balls or gauze pads (not included) 
o  a suitable sharps container (not included). 
•  Do not use if the Carton is dropped or damaged. 
Note: If you do not have everything you need, ask your healthcare professional. 
341 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your Device: 
Refer to User Manual for more information. 
Your Cartridge: 
342 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preparation Steps 
•  Remove 1 Cartridge from the tray inside the Carton. 
•  Put the Carton and tray with any unused Cartridges back in the refrigerator. 
•  Wash and dry your hands. 
•  For a more comfortable injection leave your Cartridge at room temperature for approximately 
15 - 30 minutes away from direct sunlight. 
Do not use any other methods to warm up your Cartridge. 
•  Check the expiry date and medication dose printed on the label. Do not use if the expiry date 
has passed or if it is not your prescribed medication dose. 
•  Check your Cartridge, do not use if: 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
it has been dropped even if it does not look damaged 
it is damaged 
the needle cap is loose 
it has been frozen or exposed to heat 
it has been at room temperature for more than 4 weeks 
it has been returned to the refrigerator after reaching room temperature. 
•  Do not remove the needle cap until instructed to do so. 
343 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Inspect the medicine through the Inspection window, it should be clear or slightly opalescent, 
colourless to pale yellow or pale brown, and may contain small white or almost transparent 
particles of protein, this is normal. 
•  Do not use the medicine if it is discoloured, cloudy, or has particles other than those described 
above. 
•  Do not shake your Cartridge. 
Note: If you have any questions about your medicine, contact your healthcare professional. 
•  Always choose an area in your abdomen, upper thighs or the outer area of the upper arms 
(caregiver only). 
•  Choose an injection site at least 3 cm from where you last injected and at least 5 cm away 
from your belly button (navel). 
•  Do not inject into bony areas or areas on your skin that are broken, bruised, red, sore (tender) 
or hard. Avoid injecting into areas with scars or stretch marks. 
•  Do not inject through your clothes. 
Note: If you have psoriasis, do not inject directly into any raised, thick, red, or scaly skin 
patches or lesions on your skin. 
•  Clean your injection site with the supplied alcohol wipe and allow to dry. 
344 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Clean the injection end of your Device with the separate supplied alcohol wipe. 
•  Allow the injection end to dry before giving an injection. 
Injection Steps 
•  Push your Cartridge firmly straight through the Cartridge door without twisting until you 
cannot push it any further. Your Device will turn on when your Cartridge has been inserted 
correctly. 
•  Check the Display shows 50 mg and the expiry date has not passed. 
Note: Your Device will turn off after 90 seconds of inactivity. Press and hold the Injection 
button to turn your Device back on. 
345 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Remove the needle cap by pulling it firmly downwards. 
•  Dispose of the needle cap in a suitable sharps container. 
• 
Inject as soon as possible after removing the needle cap. 
•  Do not replace the needle cap. 
Caution: Do not insert your fingers into your Device after removing the needle cap to avoid a 
needle stick injury. 
Note: To cancel the injection and eject your Cartridge, press the Cancel / Eject button 
1 second. 
 for 
•  Place your Device with the blue arrow pointing at 90 degrees towards your injection site. 
•  Make sure you can see the Display on your Device. 
•  Do not pinch the skin around your injection site. 
Caution: If you drop your Device with a Cartridge inserted, eject and dispose of your 
Cartridge. 
Refer to the Troubleshooting page in the Device User Manual. 
346 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Press & hold the Injection button to begin your injection when instructed by the Display. 
Note: You can release the Injection button after your injection has started. 
•  Hold your Device against your skin and wait while your medication is injected. 
•  Watch the Display on your Device. 
•  Do not move, tilt or remove your Device from your skin until instructed by the Display. 
Note: If you remove your Device before instructed, do not place it back on the injection site 
or inject another dose. Contact your healthcare professional for advice. 
347 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Lift & hold your Device away from your skin. Your Device will display that your injection is 
complete. 
•  Wait. Your Cartridge will be partially ejected from the bottom of your Device. This may take 
up to 10 seconds. 
Do not cover the bottom of your Device during this time. 
Do not insert your fingers inside your Device as the needle will be exposed during this time. 
If you notice a spot of blood, press a cotton ball or gauze over the injection site until the 
bleeding stops. Do not rub. 
• 
•  Pull your Cartridge straight out after your Device has partially ejected it. 
•  Check your Cartridge is empty of medicine with a grey bar visible in the Inspection window. 
If not, you may not have received your full dose. Contact your healthcare professional for 
advice. 
•  Do not reuse your Cartridge or reinsert it into your Device. 
•  Dispose of the used Cartridge straight away in a suitable sharps container as instructed by 
your healthcare professional or pharmacist and in accordance with local health and safety 
laws. 
--End of Instructions for Use-- 
348 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX IV 
SCIENTIFIC CONCLUSIONS AND GROUNDS FOR THE VARIATION TO THE TERMS 
OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION(S) 
349 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for etanercept, the scientific 
conclusions of PRAC are as follows:  
In view of available data on risk of occurrence of glomerulonephritis from the literature and 
spontaneous reports in post-marketing surveillance, including in some cases a close temporal 
relationship and a positive de-challenge, the PRAC considers a causal relationship between etanercept 
and glomerulonephritis cannot be excluded. The PRAC concluded that the product information of 
medicinal products containing etanercept should be amended accordingly.  
Having reviewed the PRAC recommendation, the CHMP agrees with the PRAC overall conclusions 
and grounds for recommendation. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for etanercept the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing etanercept is unchanged subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) should be varied. 
350 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
