20 July 2017 
EMA/686253/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): lutetium (177Lu) chloride 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010391/201612 
Period covered by the PSUR: 6 July 2016 – 19 December 2016 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for lutetium isotope of mass 177, the 
scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Haematological disorders 
Haematological disorders including anaemia, thrombocytopenia and leukopenia have been reported with 
considerable consistency from a number of studies describing the use of Lutetium 177 - Peptide receptor 
radionuclide therapy (Lu177-PRRT) for neuroendocrine tumours (NETs) in the pre-authorisation phase. 
Similarly, in the recent randomised clinical trial NETTER -1 the incidences of any grade of thrombocytopenia, 
lymphopenia and leucopenia were significantly higher in the Lu177-DOTATE treatment arm than in the 
control arm. There was also weak evidence of a higher incidence of anaemia in the treatment arm and a 
non-significant numerical imbalance in the percentage of patients with neutropenia. Haematological 
disorders are listed as an adverse effect of Lu177 PRRT in several European guidelines on its use. Three 
cases describing haematotoxicity with Lu177-PRRT for NETs have been received in Eudravigilance. All 
describe a temporal relationship and a positive rechallenge is suggested in one.  
Haematological disorders have also been observed following Lu177 PSMA-targeted therapy for metastatic 
castrate-resistant prostate cancer (mCPRC). Additionally, the association is biologically plausible based on 
the known mechanism of action.  
Based on the available evidence, the PRAC recommends that the product information for Lu177 should be 
updated in order to advise prescribers and patients of this issue.  
Therapy-related myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) / acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) 
Therapy-related myeloid neoplasms (t-MNs) were reported in 1-2% of patients treated with Lu177 PRRT for 
neuroendocrine tumours in a number of studies conducted prior to authorisation of Lu177. Moreover, 
recently published analysis of Lu177-DOTATATE in patients with neuroendocrine tumours (Brabander et al 
2017) reported cases of myelodysplastic syndrome and acute leukaemia. According to the interim analysis 
of the NETTER-1 study published earlier this year, there was one case of MDS in the Lu-177 DOTATATE arm.  
The MAH has received 3 post-marketing reports of MDS and 1 post-marketing report of AML. An additional 
bone-marrow examination confirmed case was identified in Eudravigilance in a patient without a history of 
previous chemo- or radiotherapy, after 4 cycles of Lu177 PRRT for metastatic carcinoid tumour of the ileum.  
The potential association with therapy-related myeloid neoplasms is considered to be biologically plausible. 
Moreover, the effect appears to be rather specific, in that no other type of malignancy has been described. 
There is also some coherence with what is known about the long-term safety profile of other 
radiopharmaceuticals such as radioactive iodine. MDS / AML do not yet appear to have been observed during 
Prostate-specific membrane antigen targeted (PSMA-targeted) radioligand therapy for mCRPC (including 
that using Lu177). However, the toxicity may not have been observed due to different prognosis of the 
disease.  
Consequently, the PRAC is of the view that healthcare professionals and patients should be advised that 
cases of MDS / AML have been reported following treatment with Lu177-PRRT for NETs and that a product 
information update is warranted.  
Renal dysfunction 
Radiolabelled somatostatin analogues are eliminated by the kidney. Biopsy-confirmed radiation 
nephropathy with thrombotic microangiopathy has been observed in association with another radioligand, 
90Y-DOTATATE, and can lead to chronic kidney disease. Lu177 has a shorter penetration than 90 Y, 
EMA/686253/2017 
Page 2/3 
  
  
  
 
however. Data from the NETTER-1 study did not show evidence of renal toxicity in association with Lu177 
thus far. Moreover, while a small number of relevant post-marketing reports have been received, they are 
confounded by previous medical history. However, patients in the studies to date including NETTER-1 and in 
the post-marketing cases have received amino acid infusions. This is in accordance with European clinical 
guidelines which list radiation nephropathy as a possible adverse effect of radioligand therapy of 
neuroendocrine tumours and recommend the use of amino acid infusions as renal protection.  
Radiation nephropathy does not yet appear to have been observed in the context of PSMA-targeted 
radioligand therapy for mCRPC.  
Taking all the information into consideration, the PRAC considers that the product information should be 
updated in order to reflect the available evidence and current guidance.  
Xerostomia 
An association between xerostomia and Lu177 is biologically plausible in the context of Lu177-PSMA 
radioligand therapy for mCRPC because the salivary glands express PSMA and are radiosensitive organs. A 
number of dosimetry analyses have observed the salivary glands to be among the organs to receive the 
highest dose during radioligand therapy for mCRPC. Moreover, an effect on the salivary glands has been 
observed during radioligand therapy for mCRPC with radioisotopes other than Lu177. According to the 
summary tabulation, the MAH has not yet received any reports of xerostomia. However, it is considered that 
as it tends to be mild and transient, under-reporting is likely.  
Based on the biologic plausibility and available evidence the PRAC recommends that the Product Information 
be updated with a reflection of the current evidence.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisations 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for lutetium isotope of mass 177 the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal products containing lutetium isotope of mass 177 is unchanged subject 
to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisations should be varied. 
EMA/686253/2017 
Page 3/3 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
