EMA/246032/2020 
EMEA/H/C/005061
Enerzair Breezhaler (indacaterol / glycopyrronium 
bromide / mometasone)
An overview of Enerzair Breezhaler and why it is authorised in the EU
What is Enerzair Breezhaler and what is it used for?
Enerzair Breezhaler is an asthma medicine for inhalation. It is used for maintenance (regular) 
treatment in adults whose asthma is not controlled well enough with inhaled long-acting beta-2 agonist 
together with a high dose of an inhaled corticosteroid. It should be used for patients who have had at 
least one asthma attack (exacerbation) in the last year. 
Enerzair Breezhaler contains the active substances indacaterol, glycopyrronium bromide and 
mometasone. 
How is Enerzair Breezhaler used?
Enerzair Breezhaler is available as capsules for use in the inhaler supplied with the medicine.  The 
medicine can only be obtained with a prescription.
The Enerzair Breezhaler capsule is placed in the inhaler and the patient breathes in the powder through 
the mouth. The patient should inhale powder from one capsule once daily, at around the same time 
each day.
An electronic sensor is available for use with the medicine. When attached to the inhaler, it records the 
patient’s use of the inhaler and it can send the information to the patient’s smartphone or other mobile 
device. The sensor is optional and it is not needed for using the inhaler.
For more information about using Enerzair Breezhaler, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor 
or pharmacist.
How does Enerzair Breezhaler work?
The three active substances in Enerzair Breezhaler, indacaterol, glycopyrronium bromide and 
mometasone, have been in use in several inhaled medicines for treating patients with breathing 
disorders. They work in different ways to allow the patient to breathe more easily.
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us 
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact  Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
Indacaterol is a long-acting beta-2 adrenergic receptor agonist. It relaxes the muscle around the 
airways into the lungs by activating targets called beta-2 receptors in the muscle cells. This helps to 
keep the airways open. 
Glycopyrronium bromide is a muscarinic receptor antagonist. It blocks muscarinic receptors in muscle 
cells in the airways. Because these receptors help control the contraction of the airway muscles, 
blocking them causes the muscles to relax, helping to keep the airways open. 
Mometasone is a corticosteroid that has anti-inflammatory effects. It works in a similar way to 
corticosteroid hormones in the body, reducing the activity of the immune system (the body’s 
defences). Mometasone helps to keep the airways clear by blocking the release of substances, such as 
histamine, that are involved in inflammation and release of mucus in the airways.
What benefits of Enerzair Breezhaler have been shown in studies?
A main study involved 3,092 patients whose asthma was not well controlled on a combination of a 
long-acting beta-2 agonist and a corticosteroid used by inhalation. Patients had had at least one 
asthma exacerbation in the previous year. The study measured the change in patients’ forced 
expiratory volume over 1 second (FEV1, the maximum volume of air they could breathe out in 1 
second) just before their next dose was due. 
After 26 weeks of treatment, FEV1 improved by 65 ml more in patients treated with Enerzair 
Breezhaler than in patients using an inhaler containing equivalent doses of indacaterol and 
mometasone, two of the three active substances in Enerzair Breezhaler. 
What are the risks associated with Enerzair Breezhaler?
The most common side effects with Enerzair Breezhaler (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
are worsening of asthma and nasopharyngitis (inflammation in the nose and throat). Other common 
side effects (which may affect up to 1 in 100 people) include upper respiratory tract infection (nose 
and throat infections) and headache.
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Enerzair Breezhaler, see the package leaflet.
Why is Enerzair Breezhaler authorised in the EU?
In patients whose asthma is not controlled well enough on a combination of an inhaled long-acting 
beta-2 agonist and high-dose corticosteroid and who have had an exacerbation in the previous year, 
the improvement in FEV1 with Enerzair Breezhaler was modest but considered to be clinically 
important. The side effects of Enerzair Breezhaler are similar to those of other inhaled medicines used 
for treating asthma.
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Enerzair Breezhaler’s benefits are greater than 
its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU.
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Enerzair Breezhaler?
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Enerzair Breezhaler have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet.
Enerzair Breezhaler (indacaterol / glycopyrronium bromide / mometasone) 
EMA/246032/2020
Page 2/3
As for all medicines, data on the use of Enerzair Breezhaler are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Enerzair Breezhaler are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients.
Other information about Enerzair Breezhaler
Enerzair Breezhaler received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 03 July 2020.
Further information on Enerzair Breezhaler can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/enerzair-breezhaler. 
This overview was last updated in 07-2020.
Enerzair Breezhaler (indacaterol / glycopyrronium bromide / mometasone) 
EMA/246032/2020
Page 3/3
