EMA/433561/2023  
EMEA/H/C/005124 
Enhertu (trastuzumab deruxtecan) 
An overview of Enhertu and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Enhertu and what is it used for? 
Enhertu is a medicine used for treating adults with:  
•  HER2-positive breast cancer that is metastatic (has spread to other parts of the body) or cannot be 
removed by surgery. HER2-positive means that the cancer cells produce a protein called HER2 in 
large quantities on their surface, which makes the tumour cells grow more quickly. Enhertu is used 
on its own in patients who have received one or more HER2-targeted treatments; 
•  HER2-low breast cancer that cannot be removed by surgery or is metastatic. HER2-low means that 
the cancer cells produce some HER2 on their surface, but less than HER2-positive cancer cells. 
Enhertu is used in patients who have previously received treatment after the disease had spread or 
whose disease came back during or within 6 months of treatment following surgery. It is used on 
its own in these patients; 
• 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) whose cancer cells have a mutation (change) in the 
gene for the HER2 protein, called an activating HER2 mutation. It is used on its own in patients 
who had previously been treated with platinum-based chemotherapy with or without 
immunotherapy (treatment that boosts the immune system’s ability to fight the cancer); 
•  HER2-positive advanced gastric cancer (cancer of the stomach) or gastro-oesophageal junction 
cancer (cancer at the junction between the stomach and the oesophagus). It is used on its own in 
patients who have previously received trastuzumab, another HER2-targeted treatment. 
Enhertu contains the active substance trastuzumab deruxtecan. 
How is Enhertu used? 
Enhertu can only be obtained with a prescription. It should be prescribed by a doctor and given under 
the supervision of a healthcare professional who has experience in the use of cancer medicines.  
It is given by infusion (drip) into a vein over 90 minutes once every three weeks. Patients who tolerate 
the first 90‑minute infusion can receive subsequent infusions over 30 minutes. Treatment may be 
continued for as long as it remains effective. The dose depends on the patient’s body weight and the 
type of cancer that is being treated.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The infusion may cause allergic reactions, so the patient should be monitored during and after the 
infusion for signs such as fever and chills. If the patient develops side effects, the doctor may reduce 
the dose or stop treatment temporarily or permanently. 
For more information about using Enhertu, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Enhertu work? 
The active substance in Enhertu, trastuzumab deruxtecan, is made up of two active components which 
are linked together: 
• 
trastuzumab is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that has been designed to attach to 
HER2. By attaching to HER2, trastuzumab activates cells of the immune system, which then kill the 
cancer cells. Trastuzumab also stops HER2 from stimulating the growth of cancer cells. HER2 is 
produced at high levels in about a fifth of gastric cancers and a quarter of breast cancers, and at 
lower levels in about half of the remaining breast cancers. In lung cancer with an activating HER2 
mutation, HER2 is overactive. 
• 
deruxtecan is a toxic substance that kills cells when they attempt to divide and grow. It becomes 
active once the trastuzumab component has attached to HER2 and enters the cancer cell. 
Deruxtecan blocks an enzyme called topoisomerase I which is involved in copying cell DNA needed 
to make new cells. By blocking topoisomerase I, cancer cells are prevented from multiplying and 
eventually die. 
What benefits of Enhertu have been shown in studies? 
Breast cancer 
An ongoing main study showed that Enhertu was effective at shrinking the tumour in patients with 
metastatic breast cancer or breast cancer that could not be removed by surgery. All patients had 
received two or more HER2-targeted treatments. The tumour shrank in around 61% of 184 patients 
treated with the recommended dose of Enhertu. 
An additional study involved 524 patients previously treated with a HER2-targeted treatment 
(trastuzumab) and a taxane for HER2-positive breast cancer that was metastatic or could not be 
removed by surgery. The study showed that patients treated with Enhertu lived for at least 18.5 
months without their disease getting worse compared with at least 5.6 months for patients treated 
with trastuzumab emtansine. 
Another main study found that Enhertu increased the time patients with HER2-low breast cancer lived 
without their disease getting worse. The study involved 557 patients with breast cancer that was 
metastatic or could not be removed by surgery and who had been previously treated with another 
cancer medicine. The study found that patients who received Enhertu lived for an average of 9.9 
months without their disease getting worse compared with 5.1 months for those who received another 
cancer medicine chosen by the doctor.  
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
An ongoing study looked at treatment with Enhertu in 152 patients with NSCLC that had activating 
HER2 mutations and had spread and whose cancer had come back or got worse after at least one 
previous treatment that included platinum-based chemotherapy. The results showed that the overall 
response rate (the proportion of patients who have no sign of cancer or whose tumours shrank) was 
Enhertu (trastuzumab deruxtecan)  
EMA/433561/2023 
Page 2/5 
 
 
 
 
49% (50 out of 102) in patients treated with the intended dose of Enhertu, and the response lasted an 
average of 16.8 months. In this study, Enhertu was not compared with any other medicine or placebo 
(dummy treatment). 
Gastric cancer and gastro-oesophageal junction cancer 
The benefits of Enhertu in gastric and gastro-oesophageal cancer were investigated in one main study 
involving 79 patients whose cancer had worsened following HER2-targeted treatment consisting of 
trastuzumab. The study did not compare Enhertu with any other medicines or placebo. In 42% (33 out 
of 79) of patients the cancer responded to treatment, as observed by shrinkage in the size of the 
cancer, which lasted on average for 8 months. 
What are the risks associated with Enhertu? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Enhertu, see the package leaflet.  
The most common side effects with Enhertu (which may affect more than 1 in 5 people) include 
nausea (feeling sick), tiredness, vomiting, alopecia (hair loss), constipation, decreased appetite, 
anaemia (low levels of red blood cells), neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood 
cell that fights infection), diarrhoea, muscle and bone pain, increased levels of certain liver enzymes 
(transaminases), thrombocytopenia (low levels of blood platelets which can lead to bleeding and 
bruising) and leucopenia (low levels of white blood cells).  
The most common serious side effects include neutropenia, anaemia, nausea, tiredness, leucopenia, 
lymphopenia (low levels of lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell), vomiting, thrombocytopenia, 
hypokalaemia (low blood potassium levels which can cause weakness, muscle cramps, tingling and 
heart rhythm disturbance), diarrhoea, pneumonia, neutropenia with fever, decreased appetite, 
increased levels of certain liver enzymes, increased blood levels of the enzyme alkaline phosphatase, 
dyspnoea (difficulty breathing), weight loss, reduced ejection fraction (a measure of how well the heart 
pumps blood), increased blood levels of bilirubin (a marker of liver damage) and interstitial lung 
disease (disorders causing scarring in the lungs). 
The frequency and seriousness of side effects that can occur with Enhertu depend on the type of 
cancer that is being treated. 
Why is Enhertu authorised in the EU? 
Enhertu was effective at treating HER2-positive breast cancer in patients who had received one or 
more HER2-targeted treatments. In addition, it was effective at treating HER2-low breast cancer in 
patients who had previously received another cancer medicine. The side effects of Enhertu are 
considered manageable and similar to those of other trastuzumab-containing medicines, although the 
risk of lung disease may be higher with Enhertu. These side effects, including those affecting the lungs, 
are mostly reversible and can be managed by changing the dose and closely monitoring the patient.  
Treatment with Enhertu also showed benefits in a group of patients with gastric and gastro-
oesophageal cancer who had previously received treatment including trastuzumab and had few 
treatment options. It was therefore considered to address an unmet medical need in these patients, 
although the lack of a comparison group in the main study limited the evaluation of the benefits and 
risks associated with its use. 
Enhertu was also effective at treating patients with advanced NSCLC with HER2 mutations who had 
previously received platinum-based therapy with or without immunotherapy. These patients have few 
Enhertu (trastuzumab deruxtecan)  
EMA/433561/2023 
Page 3/5 
 
 
 
 
available treatment options and Enhertu was considered to address this unmet medical need. The main 
trial did not compare Enhertu with another cancer medicine or placebo, and the company was 
requested to submit more comprehensive data. 
Enhertu has been given ‘conditional authorisation’. This means that the European Medicines Agency 
decided that the benefits of Enhertu are greater than its risks, but the company will have to provide 
additional evidence after authorisation.  
Conditional authorisation is granted on the basis of less comprehensive data than are normally 
required. It is granted for medicines that fulfil an unmet medical need to treat serious diseases and 
when the benefits of having them available earlier outweigh any risks associated with using the 
medicines while waiting for further evidence. Every year, the Agency will review any new information 
that becomes available until data become comprehensive, and this overview will be updated as 
necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Enhertu? 
Since Enhertu has been given conditional authorisation, the company that markets Enhertu will provide 
results from a study to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of Enhertu in patients with gastric or 
gastro-oesophageal junction cancer that is metastatic or cannot be removed by surgery and has 
worsened following treatment with a trastuzumab-based regimen. The study will compare Enhertu with 
ramucirumab given in combination with paclitaxel. The company will also provide results from a study 
to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of Enhertu in patients with NSCLC whose cancer has an HER2 
mutation and is advanced or metastatic or cannot be removed by surgery. The study will compare 
Enhertu with pembrolizumab given in combination with pemetrexed-platinum chemotherapy. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Enhertu? 
The company that markets Enhertu will provide educational material to healthcare professionals to 
inform them that Enhertu can cause lung disease and what symptoms to watch out for. In addition, 
because of a potential risk of confusion between Enhertu and other trastuzumab-containing medicines, 
including Kadcyla, due to their similar sounding active substances (trastuzumab deruxtecan, 
trastuzumab emtansine and trastuzumab), the educational material will include information to alert 
healthcare professionals not to use these medicines interchangeably and to inform them on how to 
avoid medication errors. 
A patient alert card including this information will also be provided to patients who are prescribed 
Enhertu. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Enhertu have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Enhertu are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Enhertu are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Enhertu 
Enhertu received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 18 January 2021. 
Further information on Enhertu can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/enhertu.  
Enhertu (trastuzumab deruxtecan)  
EMA/433561/2023 
Page 4/5 
 
 
 
 
This overview was last updated in 10-2023. 
Enhertu (trastuzumab deruxtecan)  
EMA/433561/2023 
Page 5/5 
 
 
 
 
