ANNEX I  
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS  
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions.  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enjaymo 50 mg/mL solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each mL of solution for infusion contains 50 mg of sutimlimab*. 
One vial contains 1 100 mg of sutimlimab in 22 mL  
* Sutimlimab is an immunoglobulin G4 (IgG4) monoclonal antibody (mAb) produced in Chinese 
hamster ovary (CHO) cells by recombinant DNA technology. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each mL of solution for infusion contains 3.5 mg sodium  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.   
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for infusion (infusion) 
Opalescent, colourless to slightly yellow solution essentially free of visible particles, with a pH of 
approximately 6.1 and osmolality of 268-312 mOsm/Kg. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications  
Enjaymo is indicated for the treatment of haemolytic anaemia in adult patients with cold agglutinin 
disease (CAD). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration  
Enjaymo must be administered by a healthcare professional and under the supervision of a physician 
experienced in the management of patients with haematological disorders. 
Posology 
Patients should be vaccinated according to the most current local recommendations for patients with 
persistent complement deficiencies (see section 4.4). 
The recommended dose is based on body weight. For patients weighing 39 kg to less than 75 kg, the 
recommended dose is 6500 mg and for patients weighing 75 kg or more, the recommended dose is 
7500 mg. Administer Enjaymo intravenously weekly for the first two weeks, with administration 
every two weeks thereafter. Enjaymo should be administered at the recommended dose regimen time 
points, or within two days of these time points (see section 4.4). Enjaymo is intended for continuous 
use as chronic therapy only, unless the discontinuation of Enjaymo is clinically indicated. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Missed dose 
If a dose is missed, the missed dose should be administered as soon as possible. If the duration after 
the last dose exceeds 17 days, therapy should be reinitiated with weekly administrations for the first 
two weeks followed by administration every two weeks thereafter. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required for patients with CAD aged 65 years and over (see sections 5.1 and 
5.2).  
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with hepatic impairment. 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with renal impairment. 
Paediatric population 
There is no relevant use of Enjaymo in children < 18 years of age in the treatment of CAD. 
Method of administration  
Enjaymo is for intravenous infusion only. Do not administer as an intravenous push or bolus. For 
instructions on preparation and administration, see section 6.6. 
Following preparation, Enjaymo infusion solution should be administered intravenously at the 
infusion rate presented in Table 1. 
Table 1 ­ Infusion reference table  
Body weight range 
Greater than or equal to 
39 kg to less than 75 kg 
75 kg or greater  
Dose 
(mg) 
6500 
7500 
Number of  
vials needed 
Volume 
(mL) 
Maximum 
infusion rate 
6 
7 
130  
150  
130 mL/hour 
150 mL/hour 
Patients with cardiopulmonary disease may receive the infusion over 120 minutes. 
If an adverse reaction occurs during the administration of Enjaymo, the infusion may be slowed or 
stopped at the discretion of the physician. If hypersensitivity reactions occur, discontinue Enjaymo 
and initiate appropriate treatment. Monitor the patient for at least two hours following completion of 
the initial infusion for signs or symptoms of an infusion and/or hypersensitivity reaction. Monitor the 
patient for one hour following completion of subsequent infusions for signs or symptoms of an 
infusion reaction. 
Home infusion 
Home infusions should be performed by a healthcare professional. 
The decision to consider home infusion should be based on individual clinical characteristics of the 
patient and individual needs of the patient. Transitioning the infusion from a clinical facility to home 
administration includes ensuring that adequate infrastructure and resourcing is in place and consistent 
with treating physician orders. Infusion of Enjaymo at home may be considered for patients who 
have tolerated their infusion well in a clinical facility and have not had infusion related reactions. A 
patient’s underlying co-morbidities and ability to adhere to the home infusion requirements need to 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be considered when evaluating the patient for eligibility to receive home infusion. In addition, the 
following criteria should be considered: 
• 
The patient must have no ongoing concurrent condition that, in the opinion of the physician, 
may place the patient at greater risk when receiving an infusion in the home setting rather than 
in the clinic setting. A comprehensive evaluation should be completed before the initiation of 
home infusion to ensure that the patient is medically stable. 
The patient must have successfully received Enjaymo infusion in a clinical setting (hospital or 
outpatient) for at least three months under the supervision of a physician or care provider 
experienced in the management of patients with CAD.  
The patient must be willing and able to comply with home infusion procedures and 
recommendations of the treating physician or care provider.  
The healthcare professional administering the infusion at home should be available at all times 
during the home infusion and for at least 1 hour after infusion.  
• 
• 
• 
If the patient experiences adverse reactions during the home infusion, the infusion process should be 
stopped immediately, appropriate medical treatment should be initiated (see section 4.4) and the 
treating physician should be notified. In such cases, the treating physician should decide if 
subsequent infusions should occur and if so, whether the infusions should be administered in a 
hospital or supervised outpatient care setting.  
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.  
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Infections 
Enjaymo targets the classical complement pathway (CP) specifically binding to complement protein 
component 1, s subcomponent (C1s) preventing the cleavage of complement protein C4. Although 
the lectin and alternate pathways remain unaffected, patients may have an increased susceptibility to 
serious infections, especially infections caused by encapsulated bacteria such as Neisseria 
meningitides, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and Haemophilus influenza. Patients should be vaccinated 
against encapsulated bacteria before treatment with Enjaymo is started, please see “Vaccinations” 
below. 
In clinical studies with CAD, serious infections, including sepsis, have been reported in patients 
receiving treatment with Enjaymo (see section 4.8). Enjaymo should not be initiated in patients with 
active, serious infections. Patients should be monitored for early signs and symptoms of infections 
and should be informed to seek immediate medical care if such symptoms should occur. 
Patients with viral hepatitis and HIV were excluded from the clinical studies. Before and during 
treatment, patients must notify their physician if they have been diagnosed with hepatitis B, hepatitis 
C, or HIV infection. Be cautious when treating patients with a history of hepatitis B, hepatitis C, or 
HIV infection. 
Vaccinations 
Vaccinate patients according to the most current local recommendations for patients with persistent 
complement deficiencies, including meningococcal and streptococcal vaccines. Revaccinate patients 
in accordance with local recommendations.  
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunize patients without a history of vaccination against encapsulated bacteria at least 2 weeks 
prior to receiving the first dose of Enjaymo. If urgent Enjaymo therapy is indicated in an 
unvaccinated patient, administer vaccine(s) as soon as possible. The benefits and risks of antibiotic 
prophylaxis for prevention of infections in patients receiving Enjaymo have not been established.  
Hypersensitivity reactions 
As with other protein products, administration of Enjaymo may result in hypersensitivity reactions, 
including anaphylaxis. In clinical studies, no serious hypersensitivity reactions were observed with 
Enjaymo. If hypersensitivity reactions occur, discontinue Enjaymo and initiate appropriate treatment. 
Infusion-related reactions 
Administration of Enjaymo may result in infusion-related reactions during the infusion or 
immediately after the infusion (see section 4.8). Patients should be monitored for infusion-related 
reactions, infusion interrupted if a reaction occurs and appropriate treatment initiated.  
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) 
Individuals with inherited classical complement deficiency are at a higher risk for developing SLE. 
Patients with SLE were excluded from clinical studies with Enjaymo. Patients being treated with 
Enjaymo should be monitored for signs and symptoms of SLE and evaluated appropriately. Use 
Enjaymo with caution in patients with SLE or those who develop signs and symptoms of SLE. 
Monitoring CAD manifestations after Enjaymo discontinuation 
The effects on haemolysis diminish after end of treatment. Patients should therefore be monitored for 
signs and symptoms of haemolysis in case of treatment discontinuation.  
Sodium  
This medicinal product contains 3.5 mg per mL or 77 mg sodium per vial, equivalent to 3.85% of the 
WHO recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction  
No interaction studies have been performed. Enjaymo is an unlikely candidate for cytochrome P450 
mediated drug-drug interactions as it is a recombinant human protein. The interaction of sutimlimab 
with substrates of CYPs has not been studied. However, sutimlimab decreases the levels of 
proinflammatory cytokines in patients, such as IL-6 which is known to supress the expression of 
specific hepatic CYP450 enzymes (CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, and CYP3A4). Therefore, 
caution should be exercised when starting or discontinuing sutimlimab treatment in patients also 
receiving substrates of CYP450 3A4, 1A2, 2C9 or 2C19, particularly those with a narrow therapeutic 
index (such as warfarin, carbamazepine, phenytoin and theophylline), and doses adjusted if needed. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Pregnancy 
There are no available data on sutimlimab from the use in pregnant women. Animal studies do not 
indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
Human IgG antibodies are known to cross the placental barrier; therefore, sutimlimab may be 
transmitted from the mother to the developing foetus. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As a precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid the use of sutimlimab during pregnancy. 
Sutimlimab should be given during pregnancy only if clearly indicated.  
Breast-feeding 
Human IgGs are known to be excreted in breast milk during the first few days after birth, which is 
decreasing to low concentrations soon afterwards; consequently, a risk to the breast-fed infant cannot 
be excluded during this short period. It is unknown whether sutimlimab/metabolites are excreted in 
human milk. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to 
discontinue/abstain from sutimlimab therapy taking into account the benefit of breastfeeding for the 
child and the benefit of therapy for the woman.  
Fertility 
Effects of sutimlimab on male and female fertility have not been studied in animals. In repeat-dose 
studies with sutimlimab with exposures at up to approximately 4 times the recommended human 
dose, no effects on reproductive organs were observed in cynomolgus monkeys. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines  
Enjaymo has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines.  
4.8  Undesirable effects  
Summary of safety profile 
The most frequently reported adverse reactions with Enjaymo in CADENZA and CARDINAL 
clinical studies were headache, hypertension, urinary tract infection, upper respiratory tract infection, 
nasopharyngitis, nausea, abdominal pain, infusion-related reactions and cyanosis (reported as 
acrocyanosis). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions  
The safety evaluation of Enjaymo in patients with CAD was primarily based on data from 66 patients 
who participated in the phase 3, randomized, placebo-controlled study (CADENZA) and in an open-
label single-arm study (CARDINAL). 
Listed in Table 2 are adverse reactions observed in the CADENZA and CARDINAL studies presented 
by system organ class and frequency, using the following categories: very common (≥ 1/10); common 
(≥  1/100  to  <  1/10);  uncommon  (≥  1/1,000  to  <  1/100);  rare  (≥  1/10,000  to  <  1/1,000);  very  rare 
(< 1/10,000). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
Table 2 List of adverse reactions in CADENZA and CARDINAL studies 
MedDRA System Organ Class  Very common 
Infections and infestations 
Urinary tract infection 
Cystitis 
Upper respiratory tract 
infectionsa 
Nasopharyngitisb 
Gastroenteritis 
Rhinitis 
6 
Common 
Lower respiratory tract 
infectionsc  
Urosepsis  
Escherichia urinary tract 
infection  
Urinary tract infection bacterial 
Cystitis bacterial  
Oral herpes  
Herpes simplex viraemia 
Herpes zoster  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Nervous system disorders   
Headache  
Hypertensiond  
Cyanosis (reported as 
acrocyanosis)  
Raynaud’s phenomenon 
Abdominal paine 
Nausea 
Vascular disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Herpes simplex 
Pyrexiaf 
Feeling coldf 
Infusion related reactionsf 
Auraf  
Dizzinessf* 
Hypotensionf*  
Stress cardiomyopathyf 
Diarrhoeaf  
Dyspepsiaf  
Aphthous ulcerf  
Chest discomfortf* 
Pruritusf* 
aUpper respiratory tract infections: upper respiratory tract infection, bronchitis, and viral upper respiratory tract infection  
bNasopharyngitis: nasopharyngitis, pharyngitis 
c Lower respiratory tract infections: pneumonia klebsiella, COVID-19 pneumonia, lower respiratory tract infection, 
respiratory tract infection viral, respiratory tract infection, pneumonia 
dHypertension: hypertension, blood pressure increased, essential hypertension, hypertensive crisis, white coat hypertension 
eAbdominal pain: abdominal pain, abdominal pain lower, abdominal pain upper, abdominal tenderness 
fInfusion related reaction: All occurred within 24 hours of start of Enjaymo infusion. *Events suggestive of hypersensitivity 
reactions are included in the table.  
Serious infections 
Of the 66 patients who participated in CADENZA and CARDINAL studies, serious infections were 
reported in 10 (15.2%) patients. Serious infections listed in the ADR table include respiratory tract 
infection [pneumonia klebsiella (n=1), respiratory tract infection (n=1), COVID-19 pneumonia 
(n=1)], urinary tract infection [urosepsis (n=1), urinary tract infection (n=1), urinary tract infection 
bacterial (n=1)], herpes zoster (n=1). Sutimlimab was discontinued in one patient due to a serious 
infection of Klebsiella pneumonia with fatal outcome. No other fatal events of infections were 
reported. See section 4.4 for information on vaccination recommendations for serious infections and 
for monitoring early signs and symptoms of infections. 
Immunogenicity 
Immunogenicity of sutimlimab was assessed in CAD patients in the CARDINAL and CADENZA 
studies at baseline, during the treatment period, and at end of treatment (Week 26). Two of the 24 
patients (8.3%) enrolled in the CARDINAL study who received at least one dose of sutimlimab 
developed treatment-emergent ADAs. In CADENZA, 6 of 42 patients treated with sutimlimab 
(14.3%) developed treatment-emergent ADAs. These ADAs were transient in nature with low titre 
and were not associated with changes in the pharmacokinetic profile, clinical response, or adverse 
events. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9  Overdose  
In patients who experience overdose, immediate interruption of infusion and close monitoring is 
recommended. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties  
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, selective immunosuppressants, ATC code: 
L04AA55  
Mechanism of action  
Sutimlimab is an IgG, subclass 4 (IgG4) monoclonal antibody (mAb) that inhibits the classical 
pathway (CP) and specifically binds to complement protein component 1, s subcomponent (C1s), a 
serine protease that cleaves C4. The activities of the lectin and alternative complement pathways are 
not inhibited by sutimlimab. Inhibition of the classical complement pathway at the level of C1s 
prevents deposition of complement opsonins on the surface of red blood cells, resulting in inhibition 
of haemolysis in patients with CAD, prevents generation of proinflammatory anaphylatoxins C3a and 
C5a and the downstream terminal complement complex C5b-9.  
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Greater than 90% inhibition of CP was observed after the first Enjaymo infusion and C4 levels were 
restored to normal levels (0.2 g/L) in CAD patients within one week following the first dose of 
Enjaymo. 
The safety and efficacy of Enjaymo in patients with cold agglutinin disease (CAD) were assessed in a 
phase 3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study (CADENZA) in 42 patients (n=22 on 
Enjaymo and n=20 on placebo) and in a phase 3, open-label, single-arm study (CARDINAL) in 24 
patients for a duration of 26 weeks. Following the completion of the six-month treatment periods 
(Part A), patients in both studies continued to receive Enjaymo in a long-term safety and durability of 
response extension phase (Part B) for an additional 12 months (CADENZA) and 24 months 
(CARDINAL) following last patient out from Part A. Both studies included a 9-week follow-up after 
the last dose of Enjaymo. Key eligibility criteria were a baseline haemoglobin (Hgb) ≤10 g/dL and 
active haemolysis with a bilirubin level above the normal reference range. Patients with cold 
agglutinin syndrome (CAS) were excluded. Patients in the CADENZA study did not have a history 
of transfusion within 6 months, or more than one blood transfusion in the 12 months prior to 
enrolment in the study while patients enrolled in the CARDINAL study had a history of at least one 
documented blood transfusion within 6 months prior to enrolment in the study. Patients were 
administered 6500 mg for 39-<75 kg or 7500 mg Enjaymo for ≥75 kg intravenously over 
approximately 60 minutes on Day 0, Day 7, and every 14 days thereafter. Major baseline 
characteristics of the study population are summarized in Table 3 below.  
Table 3 ­ Baseline characteristics of patients included in the clinical studies 
Parameter 
Statistic 
CADENZA  
CARDINAL 
Age 
Mean  
Min, Max 
Placebo 
Enjaymo 
Enjaymo 
N=22 
65.3 
46, 88 
N=24 
71.3  
55, 85 
N= 20 
68.2 
51, 83 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parameter 
Statistic 
CADENZA  
CARDINAL 
Sex 
  Male  
  Female  
Body weight 
n (%) 
Mean, Kg 
Min, Max 
Haemoglobin   
Mean, g/dL 
Bilirubin (total)* 
µmol/L 
History of transfusion 
  Within last 6 months  
Mean number 
of transfusions 
(range) 
  Within last 12 
months  
Placebo 
Enjaymo 
Enjaymo 
N= 20 
N=22 
N=24 
4 (20.0)  
16 (80.0) 
64.9 
48, 95 
9.33 
35.77 
5 (22.7)  
17 (77.3) 
66.8 
39, 100 
9.15 
41.17 
9 (37.5) 
15 (62.5) 
67.8 
40, 112 
8.59 
53.26  
(1.75 X ULN) 
(2 X ULN) 
(2.6 × ULN†) 
0 
0 
0 
3.2 (1, 19) 
0.14 (0, 1) 
4.8 (1, 23) 
FACIT†-Fatigue scale 
Mean  
32.99 
31.67 
32.5  
*N=21 in CARDINAL; Placebo N=18 and Enjaymo N= 20 in CADENZA, for bilirubin data excluding patients with either 
a positive or no available test result for Gilbert’s syndrome. 
†ULN: Upper limit of normal, FACIT: Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT-Fatigue is measured on a 
scale of 0 (worst fatigue) to 52 (no fatigue)  
CADENZA Study 
Forty-two patients were randomized to receive Enjaymo (n=22); or placebo (n=20) through Week 25. 
Efficacy was based on the proportion of patients who met the primary endpoint criteria: an increase 
from baseline in Hgb level ≥ 1.5 g/dL at the treatment assessment time point (mean value from 
Weeks 23, 25, and 26), no blood transfusion from Week 5 through Week 26, and no treatment for 
CAD beyond what was permitted per protocol from Week 5 through Week 26. A patient received a 
blood transfusion if they met the following haemoglobin threshold: Hgb < 7 g/dL or for a Hgb 
< 9 g/dL with symptoms. Prohibited therapies included rituximab alone or in combination with 
cytotoxic agents. 
Efficacy was further assessed by the following two key secondary endpoints: based on the effect of 
Enjaymo on the mean change from baseline in Hgb and the FACIT-fatigue score to assess change in 
quality of life. Additional secondary endpoints were laboratory measures of haemolysis including 
mean change from baseline in total bilirubin. Supportive efficacy data collected included transfusion 
usage after five weeks of treatment.  
Efficacy results are described in Tables 4 and 5 below. 
Table 4­ Efficacy results in patients with CAD in the CADENZA study ­ Part A  
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parameter 
Responder a  
Haemoglobin 
Mean number of transfusions 
(Week 5 to Week 26)  
FACIT†­Fatigue scale 
Total bilirubin* 
Statistic 
%  
(95 % CI) 
Placebo 
N=20 
3 (15.0)  
Enjaymo 
N=22 
16 (72.7) 
(3.2, 37.9) 
(49.8, 89.3) 
Treatment 
effect 
Odds Ratio 
(95% CI) 
p value 
Mean change 
from baseline 
(LS† Mean), 
g/dL 
95% CI of LS 
Mean 
p value 
n (SD) 
Mean 
Mean change 
from baseline 
(LS† Mean) 
95% CI of LS 
Mean 
p value 
15.94  
(2.88,88.04) 
<0.001 
0.09 
2.66 
2.56 
(-0.5, 0.68) 
(2.09, 3.22) 
(1.75, 3.38) 
<0.001 
0.5 (1.1) 
0.05 (0.2) 
NC 
33.66 
43.15 
1.91 
(-1.65, 
5.46) 
10.83 
(7.45, 
14.22) 
8.93 
(4, 13.85) 
<0.001 
Mean, µmol/L 
33.95 
12.12 
Mean change 
from baseline  
-1.83 
-22.13 
NC 
Number of 
patients 
normalized (%) 
aA responder was defined as a patient with an increase from baseline in Hgb level ≥1.5 g/dL at the treatment assessment 
time point (mean value from Weeks 23, 25, and 26), no blood transfusion from Week 5 through Week 26, and no 
treatment for CAD beyond what was permitted per protocol from Week 5 through Week 26. 
*N=18 for placebo and N=17 for Enjaymo, for bilirubin data excluding patients with either a positive or no available test 
result for Gilbert’s syndrome 
†LS: Least Square, FACIT: Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy, NC= Not calculated 
4 (22.2%) 
15 (88.2) 
Mean change from baseline in haemoglobin (Hgb) is shown in the Figure 1 below.  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 CADENZA Study Part A: Plot of mean change from baseline in haemoglobin (g/dL) (+/­ 
SE) by visit  
Mean bilirubin levels by visit is shown in the Figure 2 below.  
Figure 2­ CADENZA Study Part A: Plot of mean bilirubin (µmol/L) (+/­ SE) by visit (excluding 
subjects with positive or unknown Gilbert’s syndrome test results)  
Health-Related Quality of Life 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In Part A, increases in mean FACIT-fatigue scores are presented in the Figure 3 below.  
Figure 3 – CADENZA Study Part A: Plot of mean change in FACIT­Fatigue score (SE) by visit 
– Observed – Full Analysis Set 
In Part B, mean haemoglobin levels were maintained >11 g/dL and sustained normalization of mean 
bilirubin levels were observed indicating a sustained decrease in haemolysis. Improvements in 
FACIT-Fatigue score observed in Part A were maintained. 
After the last dose of Enjaymo in the study, signs and symptoms of recurrent haemolysis were 
observed. Mean haemoglobin, nine weeks after the last dose in Part B, decreased by 2.41 g/dL 
standard deviation (SD: 2.21) and mean bilirubin increased by 21.80 µmol/L (SD:18.14) from the last 
available values during treatment. The mean FACIT‑Fatigue score returned to near baseline levels at 
31.29, with a mean SD change from baseline of -1.40 (11.48). 
CARDINAL Study 
Twenty-four patients were administered Enjaymo through Week 25. 
Efficacy was based on the proportion of patients who met the primary endpoint criteria: an increase 
from baseline in Hgb level ≥ 2 g/dL or a Hgb level ≥ 12 g/dL at the treatment assessment time point 
(mean value from Weeks 23, 25, and 26), no blood transfusion from Week 5 through Week 26, and 
no treatment for CAD beyond what was permitted per protocol from Week 5 through Week 26. A 
patient received a blood transfusion if they met the following haemoglobin threshold: Hgb < 7 g/dL 
or for a Hgb < 9 g/dL with symptoms. Prohibited therapies included rituximab alone or in 
combination with cytotoxic agents. 
Efficacy was further assessed by the following secondary endpoints: based on the effect of Enjaymo 
on Hgb and laboratory measures of haemolysis including mean change from baseline in total 
bilirubin. Change in quality of life was assessed by mean change from baseline in the FACIT-fatigue 
score as a secondary endpoint. Supportive efficacy data collected included transfusion usage after 
five weeks of treatment.  
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 presents efficacy results in patients with CAD in the CARDINAL study. 
Table 5 ­ Efficacy Results in Patients with CAD in the CARDINAL Study ­ Part A  
Parameter 
Respondera  
Haemoglobin 
Mean number of transfusions 
(Week 5 to Week 26)  
Total bilirubin* 
FACIT†­Fatigue Scale 
Statistic 
n (%) 
Mean change from baseline (LS† Mean), 
g/dL 
95% CI of LS Mean 
n 
Mean, µmol/L 
Mean change from baseline (LS† Mean) 
Number of patients normalized (%) 
Mean 
Mean change from baseline (LS† Mean) 
ENJAYMO 
N=24 
13 (54) 
2.60 
(0.74, 4.46) 
0.9 
15.48 (0.76 × 
ULN†) 
-38.18 
13 (54.2) 
44.26 
10.85 
95% CI of LS Mean 
(8.0, 13.7) 
aA responder was defined as a patient with an increase from baseline in Hgb level ≥ 2 g/dL or a Hgb level ≥ 12 g/dL at the 
treatment assessment time point (mean value from Weeks 23, 25, and 26), no blood transfusion from Week 5 through Week 
26, and no treatment for CAD beyond what was permitted per protocol from Week 5 through Week 26. 
*N=21 for bilirubin data excluding patients with Gilbert’s syndrome 
†LS: Least Square, ULN: Upper limit of normal, FACIT: Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy 
In Part B, mean haemoglobin levels were maintained >11 g/dL and sustained normalization of mean 
bilirubin levels were observed indicating a sustained decrease in haemolysis. 
After the last dose of Enjaymo in the study, signs and symptoms of recurrent haemolysis were 
observed. Mean haemoglobin, nine weeks after the last dose in Part B, decreased by 2.28 g/dL (SD: 
1.80) and mean bilirubin increased by 24.27 µmol/L (SD:13.51) from the last available values during 
treatment. Mean FACIT-Fatigue scores returned towards baseline, with a mean SD change from 
baseline pre-treatment values of 1.05 (8.15). 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Enjaymo in all subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of primary Cold Agglutinin 
Disease (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use).  
Elderly population 
Majority of the patients (43/66, 65%) included in the clinical studies with Enjaymo for CAD were 65 
years of age or older. Reported clinical experience has not identified any differences in responses 
between those over the age of 65 and younger patients. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties  
The pharmacokinetics (PK) of sutimlimab were characterized in 24 patients (CARDINAL) and 42 
patients (CADENZA), which included 51 patients treated with 6500 mg and 15 patients with 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7500 mg as per recommended posology. The total exposures at steady-state of proposed dosing 
regimen are presented in Table 6.  
Table 6 ­ Mean (SD) steady state exposure parameters  
CARDINAL and 
CADENZA  
Dose (mg)  
Cmin (µg/mL)*  
AUCSS (µg·h/mL)*  
Mean (SD) 
6500 (n=51) 
7500 (n=15) 
1397 (721) 
1107 (661) 
697449 (256234) 
576017 (253776) 
* Abbreviations: AUCss = area under the curve between 2 consecutive doses after steady state is achieved; Cmin = trough 
concentration at steady state defined as 1 hour prior to next dose administration  
Steady state was achieved by week 7 after starting sutimlimab treatment, with accumulation ratio of 
less than 2. 
Distribution 
The volume of distribution at steady state in central and peripheral compartments was approximately 
5.8 L in patients with CAD. 
Biotransformation 
Sutimlimab is a protein. It is generally recognized that antibodies are metabolized by degradation 
into small peptides and individual amino acids. 
Elimination 
The half-life of sutimlimab is dependent on the plasma concentration. The terminal elimination half-
life of sutimlimab at steady-state based on the total clearance (linear and non-linear clearance) is 16 
days.  
Linearity/non-linearity 
Following single doses, sutimlimab clearance showed a steep initial decrease at doses less than 30 
mg/kg (~ 2 g), becoming independent of dose between 60 and 100 mg/kg of sutimlimab. 
Special populations  
No clinically significant differences were observed in the pharmacokinetics of sutimlimab based on 
sex, age, hepatic impairment, or renal impairment. Exposure levels (Cmax, Cmin and AUC) at steady 
state were estimated based on 6500 mg (<75 kg) and 7500 mg (>= 75 kg) given Days 0, 7 and every 
14 days thereafter. The population pharmacokinetic analysis showed similar exposure parameters 
between sexes with 101 male and 95 female participants. 
The population pharmacokinetic analysis showed similar exposure parameters with participant’s race 
(94 White, 10 Black, 42 Asian). 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis showed that body weight and ethnicity (Japanese versus non-
Japanese) influenced the pharmacokinetics of sutimlimab. Lower exposure was observed in 
participants with higher body weight. Based on cross-study comparison, sutimlimab AUC0-168 after 30 
to 100 mg/kg was up to 38% higher in Japanese subjects than in non-Japanese participants. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship(s) 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sutimlimab concentration above 100 µg/mL resulted in maximal CP inhibition. The proposed dosing 
regimen resulted in adequate sutimlimab exposure at steady state to provide clinically relevant effects 
on Hgb, bilirubin, and total C4 levels.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data  
An enhanced pre- and post-natal development (ePPND) study in cynomolgus monkeys revealed no 
evidence of adverse developmental outcomes with intravenous administration of sutimlimab during 
organogenesis through delivery, at exposures approximately 2-3 times the AUC in humans at the 
maximum recommended dose. In repeat-dose studies with sutimlimab with exposures at up to 
approximately 4 times the recommended human dose, no effects on reproductive organs were 
observed in cynomolgus monkeys. 
No animal studies have been conducted to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of sutimlimab.  
Non-clinical data revealed no special hazard for humans based on nonclinical studies in cynomolgus 
monkeys. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients  
Polysorbate 80 (E 433) 
Sodium chloride 
Sodium phosphate dibasic (E 339) 
Sodium phosphate monobasic (E 339) 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities  
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other 
medicinal products. 
6.3  Shelf life  
Unopened vial: 
3 years  
Storage of the medicinal product after opening: 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 16 hours at 18°C to 25°C or for 72 
hours at 2°C to 8°C. From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately.  
If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the 
user and would not normally be for longer than 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C or 8 hours at room 
temperature, unless vial opening and pooling into the infusion bag has taken place in controlled and 
validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage  
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C). 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light.  
Do not freeze.  
For storage conditions after first opening of the medicinal product vial, see section 6.3. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
22 mL solution in vial (type I glass) with a stopper (butyl rubber), seal (aluminium) and a flip-off cap 
Each pack contains 1 or 6 vials.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
Enjaymo is provided as a solution in a single-dose vial and should be prepared by a healthcare 
professional using aseptic technique. 
Preparation 
1. 
2. 
Remove Enjaymo from the refrigerator. To minimize foaming, do not shake. 
Inspect vials visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. The 
solution is an opalescent and colourless to slightly yellow liquid. Do not administer if 
discoloured or if other foreign particulate matter is present. 
3.  Withdraw the calculated volume from the appropriate number of vials based on the 
recommended dose (see Table 1) and add to an empty infusion bag. Discard unused portion 
remaining in the vial. 
The prepared solution should be administered immediately. For storage conditions, see section 
6.3. 
4. 
Administration 
1. 
2. 
3. 
Prior to administration, allow the infusion solution to adjust to room temperature (18°C-25°C). 
Refer to Table 1 for infusion rate, see section 4.2. The infusion should be administered over 1-
2 hours depending on the patient’s body weight. Administer the infusion only through a 0.22-
micron filter with a polyethersulfone (PES) membrane. Infusion warmers may be used, do not 
exceed a temperature of 40°C.  
The infusion catheter and tubing should be primed with the dosing solution immediately before 
infusion and flushed immediately following completion of the infusion with enough quantity 
(approximately 20 mL) of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection. 
No incompatibilities have been observed between Enjaymo infusion solution and infusion bags 
made of Di-(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) plasticized polyvinyl chloride (PVC), Ethyl Vinyl 
Acetate (EVA) and polyolefin (PO); administration sets made of DEHP-plasticized PVC, 
DEHP-free polypropylene (PP) and polyethylene (PE); and vial adapters made of 
polycarbonate (PC) and acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene (ABS). 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Sanofi B.V. 
Paasheuvelweg 25 
1105 BP Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS  
EU/1/22/1687/001 
EU/1/22/1687/002 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 15 November 2022 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING 
SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance  
Biogen Inc. 
5000 Davis Drive 
Research Triangle Park, NC 27709 
USA 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release  
Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH 
Brüningstr. 50 
Frankfurt am Main, 65926 
Germany 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation.  
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result 
of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
The MAH shall ensure that in each member state where Enjaymo is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals (HCPs) who are expected to prescribe Enjaymo are provided with the following 
educational materials:   
•  Physician’s guide 
•  Patient’s guide 
These tools will convey key safety messages on the important identified risk of serious infections and 
important potential risk of meningococcal infections.  
For Physician’s guide:  
•  Educate physicians that patients should be vaccinated (according to most current local 
vaccination guidelines for vaccine use in patients with persistent complement deficiencies) 
prior to initiating Enjaymo. 
•  Recommend on-treatment monitoring for early signs and symptoms of infection. 
•  Recommend individualized patient counselling. 
For Patient’s guide: 
•  Enhance awareness of increased risk of infection and the need for vaccination. 
•  Enhance awareness of early signs and symptoms of infections and the need to seek immediate 
medical attention should they occur. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III  
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET  
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING  
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Enjaymo 50 mg/mL solution for infusion 
sutimlimab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each vial contains 1 100 mg of sutimlimab in 22 mL. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Excipients: Polysorbate 80, sodium chloride, sodium phosphate dibasic, sodium phosphate 
monobasic, water for injections.  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Solution for infusion 
50 mg/mL 
1 vial 
6 vials 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
Intravenous use.  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For more information, scan QR code or visit www.enjaymo.info.sanofi  
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.  
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
Do not shake 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light.  
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Sanofi B.V. 
Paasheuvelweg 25 
1105 BP Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1687/001  
EU/1/22/1687/002  
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot  
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY  
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE  
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER ­ HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
IMMEDIATE LABEL: VIAL/GLASS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  
Enjaymo 50 mg/mL infusion 
sutimlimab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)  
Each vial contains 1 100 mg of sutimlimab in 22 mL 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS  
Excipients: Polysorbate 80 (E 433), sodium chloride, sodium phosphate dibasic (E 339), sodium 
phosphate monobasic (E 339), water for injections.  
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS  
Solution for infusion 
50 mg/mL 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION  
IV  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN  
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY  
Do not shake 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE  
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS  
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light.  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE  
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER  
Sanofi B.V. 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
13.  BATCH NUMBER  
Lot  
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient  
Enjaymo 50 mg/mL solution for infusion  
sutimlimab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully, before you are given this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
-  Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
- 
- 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Enjaymo is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you are given Enjaymo  
3.  How Enjaymo will be given 
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store Enjaymo  
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Enjaymo is and what it is used for 
Enjaymo contains the active substance sutimlimab and belongs to a class of medicines called 
monoclonal antibodies.  
In the rare blood disorder cold agglutinin disease (CAD), certain antibodies of the immune defence 
system bind to red blood cells. This causes breakdown of the red blood cells (haemolytic anaemia) 
through activation of classical complement pathway (part of the immune defense system). Enjaymo 
blocks the activation of this part of the immune defence system.   
Enjaymo is used to treat haemolytic anaemia in adults who have CAD. This reduces anaemia and 
lessen fatigue.  
2.  What you need to know before you are given Enjaymo  
You must not receive Enjaymo  
- 
if you are allergic to sutimlimab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).  
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor before you are given Enjaymo.  
Infections 
Inform your doctor if you have any infection including an ongoing infection such as HIV, 
hepatitis, B or hepatitis C or if you have a decreased ability to fight infections.  
Vaccinations 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check with your doctor that you are appropriately vaccinated, and also have received 
meningococcal and streptococcal vaccines.  
It is recommended that you are vaccinated at least 2 weeks before beginning Enjaymo. You need to 
be aware that vaccination may not always prevent these types of infection. Immediately contact your 
doctor if any signs of infection appear, see section 4 “Possible side effects”.  
Allergic reactions 
Seek medical help immediately if you notice any signs of an allergic reaction while or after you are 
given this medicine. For symptoms, see section 4 “Possible side effects”.  
Infusion-related reactions 
You may experience infusion-related reactions during the infusion or immediately after the infusion. 
Inform your healthcare professional immediately if you experience symptoms associated with 
Enjaymo infusion. For symptoms, see section 4 “Possible side effects”.  
Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) 
Inform your doctor if you have an autoimmune disease such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), 
also known as lupus. Seek medical attention if you develop any symptoms of SLE such as joint pain 
or swelling, rash on the cheeks and nose or unexplained fever.  
Children and adolescents 
Enjaymo should not be used in children and adolescents under 18 years of age as CAD generally 
does not occur in this age group. 
Other medicines and Enjaymo 
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
Pregnancy and breast­feeding  
Pregnancy  
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor for 
advice before being given this medicine. It is not known if Enjaymo will affect your unborn baby.  
If you are pregnant, you should only be given Enjaymo if your doctor has clearly recommended it.  
Breast-feeding  
It is not known whether Enjaymo passes into breast milk. If you are breastfeeding or planning to 
breastfeed, talk to your doctor before using this medicine, so you and your doctor must  decide if you 
should breast feed or if you will be given Enjaymo.  
Driving and using machines  
This medicine has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
Enjaymo contains sodium  
This medicine contains 3.5 mg per mL or 77 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in 
each vial. This is equivalent to 3.85% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium 
for an adult. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
How Enjaymo will be given 
Enjaymo will be given to you by a healthcare professional. It is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein 
(intravenously). The dose you will be given will depend on your body weight.  
The infusion takes usually 1 to 2 hours. After each infusion you will be monitored for allergic 
reactions: after the first infusion you will be monitored for at least 2 hours. After the subsequent 
infusions you will be monitored for at least 1 hour.  
You will usually receive: 
• 
• 
• 
an initial dose of Enjaymo   
a dose of Enjaymo one week later 
thereafter you will start to receive Enjaymo every 2 weeks 
Home infusion 
• 
• 
• 
You will receive Enjaymo for at least three months at a health care facility. 
After this, your doctor may consider that you can have home infusion of Enjaymo.  
Home infusion will be performed by a health care professional.  
 If you are given more Enjaymo than you should  
This medicine will be given by a healthcare professional. If you think that you have been accidentally 
given too much Enjaymo, please contact your doctor for advice.  
If you forget to use Enjaymo 
If you miss an appointment to receive Enjaymo, contact your doctor right away to reschedule your 
infusion. 
If you stop using Enjaymo 
The effects of Enjaymo will be reduced after end of the treatment. If you stop receiving Enjaymo, 
your doctor should check for return of signs and symptoms of CAD. The symptoms are caused by 
breakdown of your red blood cells and may include tiredness, shortness of breath, rapid heart rate or 
dark urine.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
Immediately tell your health care professional giving you Enjaymo if you notice any signs of an 
allergic reaction while or shortly after you are given this medicine. The signs may include:   
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of these symptoms occur during infusion, the infusion should be stopped immediately.    
difficulty breathing or swallowing 
swelling of the face, lips, tongue or throat 
severe itching of the skin, with a red rash or raised bumps 
feeling faint. 
Immediately tell your health care professional giving you Enjaymo if you notice any signs of a 
reaction related to the infusion while you are given this medicine. Common (may affect up to 1 in 
10 people). The signs may include:   
•  nausea 
•  feeling flushed 
•  headache 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  shortness of breath  
•  rapid heart rate. 
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you experience symptoms or signs of an infection such as:  
• 
fever with or without rash, chills, flu-like symptoms, cough/difficulty breathing, headache with 
nausea, vomiting, stiff neck, stiff back, confusion, eye sensitivity to light, pain during urination 
or urinating more often.  
Infections: urinary tract, upper respiratory tract, stomach and intestine, common cold, runny 
nose are very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people).  
Infections: lower respiratory tract, urinary tract, herpes infection are common (may affect up to 
1 in 10 people). 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor or nurse if you get any of the following other side effects:  
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
•  headache 
•  high blood pressure 
•  poor circulation with skin discoloration in hands and feet in response to cold and stress 
(Raynaud’s phenomenon, acrocyanosis) 
•  belly pain 
•  nausea 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
Infusion related reactions 
• 
•  Fever 
•  Feeling cold 
•  Dizziness 
•  Aura 
•  Low blood pressure 
•  Diarrhoea 
•  Stomach discomfort 
•  Mouth ulcer (aphthous ulcer) 
•  Chest discomfort 
• 
Itching 
Reporting of side effects  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed 
in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine.  
5. 
How to store Enjaymo 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the label and the carton after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C). Do not freeze. 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enjaymo should not be thrown away via wastewater or household waste. Your healthcare 
professional is responsible for disposing of any unused product correctly. This measure will help 
protect the environment.  
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Enjaymo contains  
-  The active substance is sutimlimab. Each vial of 22 mL solution contains 1100 mg of sutimlimab 
-  The other ingredients are polysorbate 80 (E 433), sodium chloride, sodium phosphate dibasic (E 
339), sodium phosphate monobasic (E 339), and water for injections.  
This medicine contains sodium (see section 2 “Enjaymo contains sodium”). 
What Enjaymo looks like and contents of the pack 
Enjaymo is an opalescent, colourless to slightly yellow solution for infusion, essentially free from 
particles.  
Each pack contains 1 or 6 vials. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Sanofi B.V. 
Paasheuvelweg 25 
1105 BP Amsterdam 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH  
Brüningstr. 50  
Frankfurt am Main, 65926  
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:  
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Sanofi Belgium 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 710 54 00 
България 
Swixx Biopharma EOOD 
Тел.: +359 (0)2 4942 480 
Česká republika 
sanofi-aventis, s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 233 086 111 
Danmark 
Sanofi A/S 
Tlf: +45 45 16 70 00 
Lietuva 
Swixx Biopharma UAB 
Tel: +370 5 236 91 40 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Sanofi Belgium  
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 710 54 00 (Belgique/Belgien) 
Magyarország 
SANOFI-AVENTIS Zrt. 
Tel: +36 1 505 0050 
Malta 
Sanofi S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 02 39394275 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutschland 
Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH 
Tel.: 0800 04 36 996 
Tel. aus dem Ausland: +49 69 305 70 13 
Eesti 
Swixx Biopharma OÜ  
Tel: +372 640 10 30 
Ελλάδα 
Sanofi-Aventis Μονοπρόσωπη AEBE 
Τηλ: +30 210 900 16 00 
España 
sanofi-aventis, S.A.  
Tel: +34 93 485 94 00 
Nederland 
Sanofi B.V. 
Tel: +31 20 245 4000 
Norge 
sanofi-aventis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 67 10 71 00 
Österreich 
sanofi-aventis GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 80 185 – 0 
Polska 
sanofi-aventis Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 280 00 00 
France 
Sanofi Winthrop Industrie 
Tél: 0 800 222 555 
Appel depuis l’étranger: +33 1 57 63 23 23 
Portugal 
Sanofi - Produtos Farmacêuticos, Lda 
Tel: +351 21 35 89 400 
Hrvatska  
Swixx Biopharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 2078 500 
Ireland 
sanofi-aventis Ireland Ltd. T/A SANOFI 
Tel: +353 (0) 1 403 56 00 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000  
Italia 
Sanofi S.r.l. 
Tel: 800 536 389 
Κύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd. 
Τηλ: +357 22 741741 
Latvija 
Swixx Biopharma SIA  
Tel: +371 6 616 47 50 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
România 
Sanofi Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 (0) 21 317 31 36 
Slovenija 
Swixx Biopharma d.o.o.  
Tel: +386 1 235 51 00 
Slovenská republika 
Swixx Biopharma s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 208 33 600 
Suomi/Finland 
Sanofi Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0) 201 200 300 
Sverige 
Sanofi AB 
Tel: +46 (0)8 634 50 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
sanofi-aventis Ireland Ltd. T/A SANOFI 
Tel: +44 (0) 800 035 2525 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website and on 
the website: www.enjaymo.info.sanofi, or by scanning the QR code below (also included on the outer 
carton) with a smartphone. 
<placeholder for QR code> 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Traceabilityc 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Preparation 
Enjaymo is provided as a solution in a single-dose vial and should be prepared by a healthcare 
professional using aseptic technique. 
1. 
2. 
Remove Enjaymo from the refrigerator. To minimize foaming, do not shake. 
Inspect vials visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. The 
solution is an opalescent and colourless to slightly yellow liquid. Do not administer if 
discoloured or if other foreign particulate matter is present. 
3.  Withdraw the calculated volume from the appropriate number of vials based on the 
recommended dose (see Table 1 for the infusion reference) and add to an empty infusion bag. 
Discard any unused portion remaining in the vial. 
The prepared solution should be administered immediately.  
4. 
Administration 
1. 
Prior to administration, allow the infusion solution to adjust to room temperature (18°C-25°C). 
Refer to Table 1 for infusion rate. The infusion should be administered over 1-2 hours 
depending on the patient’s body weight. Administer the infusion only through a 0.22-micron 
filter with a polyethersulfone (PES) membrane. Infusion warmers may be used, do not exceed a 
temperature of 40°C.  
The infusion catheter and tubing should be primed with the dosing solution immediately before 
infusion and flushed immediately following completion of the infusion with enough quantity 
(approximately 20 mL) of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection. 
No incompatibilities have been observed between Enjaymo infusion solution and infusion bags 
made of Di-(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP) plasticized polyvinyl chloride (PVC), Ethyl Vinyl 
Acetate (EVA) and polyolefin (PO); administration sets made of DEHP-plasticized PVC, 
DEHP-free polypropylene (PP) and polyethylene (PE); and vial adapters made of 
polycarbonate (PC) and acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene (ABS). 
2. 
3. 
Table 1 ­ Infusion reference table 
Body weight range 
Greater than or equal to 
39 kg to less than 75 kg 
75 kg or greater  
Dose 
(mg) 
6500 
7500 
Number of  
vials needed 
Volume 
(mL) 
Maximum infusion 
rate 
6 
7 
130  
150  
130 mL/hour 
150 mL/hour 
Storage conditions 
Unopened vial  
•  Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C). Do not freeze. 
•  Store in the original carton in order to protect from light.  
After opening 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 16 hours at 18°C to 25°C or for 
• 
72 hours at 2°C to 8°C. From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used 
immediately.  
If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of 
the user and would not normally be for longer than 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C or 8 hours at room 
temperature, unless vial opening and pooling into the infusion bag has taken place in controlled 
and validated aseptic conditions. 
Home infusion 
Home infusions should be performed by a healthcare professional. 
The decision to consider home infusion should be based on individual clinical characteristics of the 
patient and individual needs of the patient. Transitioning the infusion from a clinical facility to home 
administration includes ensuring that adequate infrastructure and resourcing is in place and consistent 
with treating physician orders. Infusion of Enjaymo at home may be considered for patients who 
have tolerated their infusion well in a clinical facility and have not had infusion related reactions. A 
patient’s underlying co-morbidities and ability to adhere to the home infusion requirements need to 
be considered when evaluating the patient for eligibility to receive home infusion. In addition, the 
following criteria should be considered: 
• 
The patient must have no ongoing concurrent condition that, in the opinion of the physician, 
may place the patient at greater risk when receiving an infusion in the home setting rather than 
in the clinic setting. A comprehensive evaluation should be completed before the initiation of 
home infusion to ensure that the patient is medically stable. 
The patient must have successfully received Enjaymo infusion in a clinical setting (hospital or 
outpatient) for at least three months under the supervision of a physician or care provider 
experienced in the management of patients with CAD.  
The patient must be willing and able to comply with home infusion procedures and 
recommendations of the treating physician or care provider.  
The healthcare professional administering the infusion at home should be available at all times 
during the home infusion and for at least 1 hour after infusion.  
• 
• 
• 
If the patient experiences adverse reactions during the home infusion, the infusion process should be 
stopped immediately, appropriate medical treatment should be initiated and the treating physician 
should be notified. In such cases, the treating physician should decide if subsequent infusions should 
occur and if so, whether the infusions should be administered in a hospital or supervised outpatient 
care setting.  
35 
 
 
 
