EMA/778266/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005776 
Enjaymo (sutimlimab) 
An overview of Enjaymo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Enjaymo and what is it used for? 
Enjaymo is a medicine for treating haemolytic anaemia (excess breakdown of red blood cells) in adults 
with cold agglutinin disease (CAD). 
CAD is a rare blood disorder where the immune system (the body’s natural defence) recognises red 
blood cells as foreign and attacks them. This causes agglutination (clumping together) and haemolysis 
(disruption) of the red blood cells, resulting in low red blood cell counts and low levels of haemoglobin. 
Haemolytic anaemia is rare, and Enjaymo was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in 
rare diseases) on 17 February 2016. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu3161609. 
Enjaymo contains the active substance sutimlimab. 
How is Enjaymo used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be supervised by a doctor 
with experience in the management of patients with CAD. Before treatment, patients should have 
received specific vaccinations to reduce the risk of infections. 
Enjaymo is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein lasting 1 or 2 hours. There are two dose levels 
recommended dependent on the patient’s weight. The treatment is given once a week for the first 2 
weeks and then every 2 weeks. Patients should be monitored during and after the infusion for certain 
side effects related to the infusion. Treatment should be stopped temporarily or permanently if the 
patient experiences certain side effects.  
Patients receive Enjaymo for at least three months at a health care facility. If the infusion is well 
tolerated during this period, the doctor may consider home infusion. Home infusion is performed by a 
health care professional.  
For more information about using Enjaymo, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Enjaymo work? 
The active substance in Enjaymo, sutimlimab, is a monoclonal antibody (a type of protein) that 
attaches to an immune system protein, C1s, which is involved in attacking red blood cells of patients 
with CAD. By attaching to C1s, the medicine prevents the immune system from attacking the red blood 
cells, reducing the destruction of red blood cells and relieving symptoms of the disease. 
What benefits of Enjaymo have been shown in studies? 
Enjaymo has been shown to improve haemolytic anaemia in two main studies involving a total of 66 
adults with CAD who had moderate to severe haemolytic anaemia.  
In the first study, patients who had not recently received a blood transfusion were given Enjaymo or 
placebo (a dummy treatment). After treatment for 26 weeks, around 73% (16 of 22) of patients given 
Enjaymo compared with 15% (3 out of 20) of those given placebo had responded to treatment, as 
measured by an increase in haemoglobin level of at least 1.5 g per dL and no need for a blood 
transfusion or other CAD treatment.  
The second study involved patients with CAD who had recently received a blood transfusion and who 
received Enjaymo for 26 weeks. The medicine was not compared with another treatment. The study 
found that 54% (13 out of 24) of patients responded to treatment, as measured by either an increase 
in haemoglobin level of at least 2 g per dL or reaching haemoglobin level of at least 12g per dl, and no 
need for a blood transfusion or other CAD treatment.  
Response to treatment was retained throughout the treatment period for both studies but diminished 
rapidly following end of treatment.  
Other measures also showed a reduced destruction of red blood cells and improvement of quality of life 
with Enjaymo. 
What are the risks associated with Enjaymo? 
The most common side effects with Enjaymo (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
headache, high blood pressure, urinary tract infection (infection of the structures that carry urine), 
upper respiratory tract infection (nose and throat infection), nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose 
and throat), nausea, abdominal pain, infusion-related reactions and cyanosis (bluish discoloration of 
hands and feet in response to cold and stress). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Enjaymo, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Enjaymo authorised in the EU? 
Enjaymo has been shown to improve haemolytic anaemia in patients with CAD by increasing 
haemoglobin levels. Since the side effects are considered manageable, the European Medicines Agency 
decided that Enjaymo’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Enjaymo? 
The company that markets Enjaymo will provide prescribers and patients with information on the need 
for vaccination before starting treatment and the risk of serious infections, including how to recognise 
signs and symptoms of infections. 
Enjaymo (sutimlimab)  
EMA/778266/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Enjaymo have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Enjaymo are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Enjaymo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Enjaymo 
Enjaymo received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 November 2022. 
Further information on Enjaymo can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/enjaymo 
This overview was last updated in 11-2022. 
Enjaymo (sutimlimab)  
EMA/778266/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
