PART VI  SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR 
ENRYLAZE (CRISANTASPASE (RECOMBINANT)) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Enrylaze. The RMP details important 
risks of Enrylaze, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Enrylaze's risks and uncertainties (missing information).  
Enrylaze's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Enrylaze should be used.   
This summary of the RMP for Enrylaze should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).   
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Enrylaze's 
RMP. 
I 
The Medicine and What it is Used For 
Enrylaze is authorised as a component of a multi-agent chemotherapeutic regimen for the 
treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) and lymphoblastic lymphoma (LBL) in adults 
and paediatric patients (1 month and older) who developed hypersensitivity or silent inactivation 
to E. coli-derived asparaginase. It contains crisantaspase (recombinant) as the active substance 
and it is given intramuscularly or intravenously. 
Further information about the evaluation of Enrylaze’s benefits can be found in Enrylaze’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/enrylaze. 
II 
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or 
Further Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of Enrylaze, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Enrylaze's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.   
II.A 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Enrylaze are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Enrylaze. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
None 
None  
None 
II.B 
Summary of Important Risks 
The safety information in the Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal product. 
II.C 
Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Enrylaze. 
II.C.2 
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Enrylaze. 
 
 
 
