EMA/429315/2023  
EMEA/H/C/005917 
Enrylaze (crisantaspase) 
An overview of Enrylaze and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Enrylaze and what is it used for? 
Enrylaze is a cancer medicine used in adults and children aged one month and older to treat acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) and lymphoblastic lymphoma (LBL), cancers of white blood cells called 
lymphoblasts. It is used in combination with other medicines in patients who have developed 
hypersensitivity (allergic reactions) or silent inactivation to E. coli-derived asparaginase, another 
cancer medicine. Silent inactivation means development of antibodies (proteins) that reduce the 
effectiveness of asparaginase without resulting in apparent allergy symptoms. 
Enrylaze contains the active substance crisantaspase. 
How is Enrylaze used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and should be prescribed and given by doctors 
and healthcare professionals experienced in the use of cancer treatments, in a setting with appropriate 
medical support and resuscitation equipment to treat anaphylaxis (a sudden, severe allergic reaction). 
Enrylaze is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein or as an injection into a muscle, either every two 
days or three times each week. The dose depends on the patient’s body surface area and the 
frequency of dosing.  
To reduce the risk of infusion-related reactions, patients may be given other medicines before 
treatment with Enrylaze. 
For more information about using Enrylaze, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Enrylaze work? 
The active substance in Enrylaze, crisantaspase, is an enzyme (protein) that works by breaking up and 
reducing the blood levels of the amino acid asparagine. The cancer cells need this amino acid to grow 
and multiply, and so its reduction in the blood causes the cells to die. Normal cells, by contrast, can 
produce their own asparagine and are less affected by the medicine.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Enrylaze have been shown in studies? 
The benefits of Enrylaze were evaluated in a study involving adults and children with ALL or LBL who 
had developed hypersensitivity or silent inactivation following use of E. coli-derived asparaginase. The 
study did not compare Enrylaze with other medicines or placebo (a dummy treatment).  
In this study, 90% (44 out of 49) of patients given Enrylaze by injection achieved nadir serum 
asparaginase activity (NSAA) levels ≥ 0.1 U/mL (a measure corresponding to the complete depletion of 
blood asparagine) after 72 hours of receiving a first course of treatment; 96% (47 out of 49) achieved 
NSAA levels ≥ 0.1 U/mL after 48 hours.  
For those patients given Enrylaze by infusion, 40% (20 out of 50) achieved NSAA levels ≥ 0.1 U/mL 
after 72 hours of receiving a first course of treatment; 90% (53 out of 59) achieved NSAA levels 
≥ 0.1 U/mL after 48 hours. 
What are the risks associated with Enrylaze? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Enrylaze, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effects with Enrylaze (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
anaemia (low levels of red blood cells), vomiting, thrombocytopenia (low levels of blood platelets, 
components that help the blood to clot), neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood 
cell), nausea, febrile neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils with fever), fatigue, pyrexia (fever), 
decreased appetite, increased blood levels of liver enzymes called transaminases, abdominal (belly) 
pain, decreased levels of white blood cells, headache, diarrhoea and decreased levels of lymphocytes 
(a type of white blood cell). 
The most common serious side effects include febrile neutropenia, pyrexia, vomiting, sepsis (blood 
poisoning), hypersensitivity to asparaginase, nausea and pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas).  
Enrylaze must not be used in patients who have severe pancreatitis. It must also not be used in 
patients who have ever had severe pancreatitis, bleeding or blood clots following asparaginase 
treatment.  
Why is Enrylaze authorised in the EU? 
Enrylaze is effective at reducing blood asparagine levels in patients with ALL and LBL who have 
developed hypersensitivity or silent inactivation following use of E. coli-derived asparaginase, a group 
of patients for whom limited treatment options exist. While those treated by infusion had a lower 
response rate compared to those treated by injection, the response was still sufficient for a proportion 
of the patients. Furthermore, EMA recommended that asparaginase levels are monitored in all patients. 
If the targeted asparaginase activity level is not achieved, it is proposed to switch to an alternative 
dosing regimen. The side effects of Enrylaze are similar to those of other asparaginase medicines and 
are considered manageable. 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Enrylaze’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Enrylaze? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Enrylaze have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Enrylaze (crisantaspase)  
EMA/429315/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Enrylaze are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Enrylaze are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Enrylaze 
Enrylaze received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 September 2023. 
Further information on Enrylaze can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/enrylaze   
This overview was last updated in 09-2023.  
Enrylaze (crisantaspase)  
EMA/429315/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
