ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enrylaze 10 mg/0.5 mL solution for injection/infusion.  
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One vial contains 0.5 mL solution of 10 mg of recombinant crisantaspase* 
The amino acid sequence is identical to native L-asparaginase from Erwinia chrysanthemi (also 
known as crisantaspase). 
An in-vitro activity assay demonstrated that 1 mg of recombinant crisantaspase approximates 1 000 U 
of native crisantaspase, consistent with the in-vivo comparisons from clinical trials. Serum 
asparaginase activity (SAA) exposures (Cmax, concentration at 48h & 72h and AUC) have been shown 
to be comparable for 25 mg/m2 recombinant crisantaspase and 25 000 U/m2 native crisantaspase, when 
administered intravenously or intramuscularly in healthy subjects. 
*recombinant Erwinia chrysanthemi L-asparaginase produced in Pseudomonas fluorescens by 
recombinant DNA technology. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection/infusion. 
Clear to opalescent, colourless to slightly yellow solution with a pH of 7.0 ± 0.5 and an osmolality: 
290–350 mOsmol/Kg. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Enrylaze is indicated as a component of a multi-agent chemotherapeutic regimen for the treatment of 
acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) and lymphoblastic lymphoma (LBL) in adult and paediatric 
patients (1 month and older) who developed hypersensitivity or silent inactivation to E. coli-derived 
asparaginase. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Enrylaze should be prescribed and administered by physicians and healthcare personnel experienced in 
the use of antineoplastic products. Appropriate resuscitation equipment and other agents necessary to 
treat anaphylaxis should be available when administering Enrylaze. 
Posology 
The recommended dose of Enrylaze is: 
-  Every 48 hours 
• 
25 mg/m2 intramuscularly or intravenously 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Or 
-  Monday/Wednesday/Friday 
• 
• 
• 
25 mg/m2 intramuscularly on Monday and Wednesday, and 50 mg/m2 intramuscularly 
on Friday; or  
25 mg/m2 intravenously on Monday and Wednesday, and 50 mg/m2 intramuscularly 
on Friday; or  
25 mg/m2 intravenously on Monday and Wednesday, and 50 mg/m2 intravenously on 
Friday 
Recommended premedication 
A consideration to premedicate patients with paracetamol, an H1 receptor blocker, and an H2 receptor 
blocker 30–60 minutes prior to administration should be made when Enrylaze is being given 
intravenously to decrease the risk and severity of infusion related reaction/hypersensitivity reaction. 
Recommended monitoring 
Asparaginase activity can vary between individuals, therefore trough SAA should be monitored. When 
administered every 48 hours a trough asparaginase activity measurement should be performed at 
48 hours post dose. When dosing on a Monday/Wednesday/Friday schedule, trough SAA should be 
measured 72 hours after the Friday dose and prior to administration of the following Monday dose. 
The dosing schedule or route of administration should then be individually adapted (see section 4.4).  
Therapy can be further adjusted according to local treatment protocols. 
The dose of Enrylaze is administered in mg/m2 and is not administered in units/m2, as used for other 
asparaginase preparations. Enrylaze is not interchangeable with other crisantaspase products to 
complete a cycle of treatment.  
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
Dose adjustment is not required for patients that develop total bilirubin ≤ 3 times the Upper Limit of 
Normal (ULN) during treatment. 
Enrylaze should be withheld if total bilirubin is > 3 times to ≤ 10 times the ULN during treatment, 
treatment can continue once resolved. In the event of a severe occurrence (total bilirubin > 10 times 
the ULN), treatment should be stopped and patients not rechallenged (see section 4.4).  
Dose adjustment is not required for patients with pre-existing mild or moderate hepatic impairment 
(total bilirubin > 1 to 3 times the ULN or AST greater than the ULN). There are insufficient data in 
patients with pre-existing severe hepatic impairment to support a dose recommendation. 
Renal impairment 
There are insufficient data in patients with mild, moderate or severe renal impairment to support a 
dose recommendation. 
Paediatric population 
No dose adjustment is required in paediatric patients. 
The safety and efficacy of children aged younger than 1 month has not yet been established. 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required in elderly patients. 
Method of administration 
Enrylaze is for intramuscular and/or intravenous use.  
For intramuscular use, limit the volume of Enrylaze at a single injection site to 2 mL for patients with 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a body surface area (BSA) > 0.5 m2, for patients with a BSA < 0.5 m2 limit the volume to 1 mL. If the 
volume to be administered is greater than the mentioned limits, use multiple injection sites.  
For intravenous infusion, it is recommended to administer the dose over 2 hours. 
For instructions on dilution of the medicinal product before intravenous administration, see section 
6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
History of severe hypersensitivity reactions to the active substance  
Hypersensitivity to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1 
Severe pancreatitis  
History of severe pancreatitis during previous asparaginase therapy 
Severe thrombosis during previous asparaginase therapy 
Severe haemorrhagic events during previous asparaginase therapy 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Clinical monitoring 
Asparaginase activity 
SAA varies substantially between patients, when treatment is administered intravenously. The optimal 
SAA level is ≥ 0.1 U/mL; if this is not observed the dosing schedule should be individually adapted. 
When administering Enrylaze intravenously on a Monday/Wednesday/Friday schedule, trough SAA 
levels should be measured 72 hours after the Friday dose and prior to the following Monday 
administration. If SAA levels ≥ 0.1 U/mL are not observed, administration of intramuscular Enrylaze 
or switching to a 48-hour dosing interval (intravenous or intramuscular) should be considered. If SAA 
levels are monitored at 48-hour intervals of intravenous Enrylaze administration and SAA levels 
≥ 0.1 U/mL are not observed, administration intramuscularly should be considered (see section 4.2). 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Grade 3 and 4 hypersensitivity reactions after the use of Enrylaze have occurred in patients during 
clinical trials (see sections 4.3 and 4.8). Hypersensitivity reactions may occur more frequently when 
treatment is administered intravenously in comparison to when treatment is administered 
intramuscularly. 
Because of the risk of serious allergic reactions, Enrylaze should be administered in a setting with 
resuscitation equipment and other agents necessary to treat anaphylaxis. Enrylaze should be 
discontinued in patients with severe hypersensitivity reactions (see section 4.3).  
Pancreatitis 
Pancreatitis has been reported in patients treated with Enrylaze in clinical trials (see section 4.8).  
Patients with symptoms compatible with pancreatitis should be evaluated to establish a diagnosis.  
Enrylaze should be discontinued in patients that develop necrotising or haemorrhagic pancreatitis.  
In the case of elevations in lipase or amylase > 2 times the ULN or symptomatic pancreatitis, Enrylaze 
should be withheld until the ULN and symptoms subside. After resolution of pancreatitis, treatment 
with Enrylaze may be resumed. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Glucose intolerance 
Cases of glucose intolerance have been reported in patients receiving Enrylaze in clinical trials (see 
section 4.8). Glucose levels in patients should be monitored at baseline and periodically during 
treatment. Insulin therapy should be administered as necessary in patients with hyperglycaemia. 
Coagulation disorders 
Thrombotic and bleeding events, including sagittal sinus thrombosis and pulmonary embolism have 
been reported with L-asparaginase therapy. Enrylaze treatment should be held for a thrombotic or 
haemorrhagic event until symptoms resolve; after resolution, treatment with Enrylaze may be 
resumed. 
Hepatotoxicity 
Therapy that includes Enrylaze can cause hepatotoxicity as experienced during clinical trials (see 
section 4.8). 
Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of hepatotoxicity.  Bilirubin and transaminases 
should be monitored prior to treatment and as clinically required during treatment with Enrylaze. In 
the event of severe liver toxicity,  treatment with Enrylaze must be discontinued and supportive care 
provided. 
Neurotoxicity 
Central nervous system (CNS) toxicity, including encephalopathy, seizures and CNS depression as 
well as posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) may occur during treatment with any 
asparaginase therapy. 
PRES may occur rarely during treatment with any asparaginase. This syndrome is characterised in 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) by reversible (from a few days to months) lesions/oedema, 
primarily in the posterior region of the brain. Symptoms of PRES essentially include elevated blood 
pressure, seizures, headaches, changes in mental state and acute visual impairment (primarily cortical 
blindness or homonymous hemianopsia).  
It is unclear whether the PRES is caused by asparaginase, concomitant treatment or the underlying 
diseases. PRES is treated symptomatically, including measures to treat any seizures. Discontinuation 
or dose reduction of concomitantly administered immunosuppressive medicinal products may be 
necessary. Expert advice should be sought. 
Contraception 
Contraception should be used during treatment and for 3 months after receiving the final dose of 
Enrylaze. Women should also undergo pregnancy testing before therapy with Enrylaze is initiated. 
Since an indirect interaction between oral contraceptives and Enrylaze cannot be ruled out, patients of 
childbearing potential should use effective non-hormonal contraceptive methods while undergoing 
treatment (see section 4.6). 
Sodium content 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say, essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. 
General 
The possibility of interactions with medicinal products whose pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics 
are affected by asparaginase-induced changes in the liver function or plasma protein levels should be 
taken into account when administering asparaginase. Asparaginase may increase toxicity of other 
medicinal products through its effect on liver function. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vincristine 
Administration of asparaginase concurrently or immediately before vincristine may be associated with 
increased toxicity of vincristine. Asparaginase inhibits hepatic clearance of vincristine. 
Methotrexate, cytarabine 
Non-clinical data indicates that prior or concurrent administration of L-asparaginase attenuates the 
effect of methotrexate and cytarabine. Administration of L-asparaginase after methotrexate or 
cytarabine results in a synergistic effect. However, the clinical effect of sequence-dependent 
L-asparaginase administration on the efficacy of methotrexate and cytarabine is unknown. 
Glucocorticoids 
Administration of asparaginase with or immediately before glucocorticoids (e.g. prednisone) may 
change coagulation parameters, such as a decrease in fibrinogen and antithrombin III levels. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in males and females 
Men and women should use contraception during treatment with Enrylaze containing chemotherapy. 
Because the time period following treatment with asparaginase when it is safe to become pregnant or 
father a child is unknown, effective contraception should be used in men and women for at least 
3 months after discontinuation. Since an indirect interaction between oral contraceptives and Enrylaze 
cannot be ruled out, patients of childbearing potential should use effective non-hormonal contraceptive 
methods while undergoing treatment (see section 4.4). 
Pregnancy 
There are no data on the use of recombinant crisantaspase in pregnant women. Based on studies with 
Erwinia chrysanthemi L-asparaginase in pregnant animals, recombinant crisantaspase can cause 
embryonic and foetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman (see section 5.3). 
Women of childbearing potential should undergo pregnancy testing before initiation of Enrylaze. 
Enrylaze should not be used during pregnancy, unless the clinical condition of the woman requires 
treatment and justifies the potential risk to the foetus. If the medicinal product is used during 
pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while receiving Enrylaze, the woman should be 
informed of the potential hazard to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether recombinant crisantaspase is excreted in human milk. Because of the potential 
for serious adverse reactions in breast-feeding infants/children, mothers should be advised not to 
breast-feed during Enrylaze therapy and for a period of two weeks after the last dose. 
Fertility 
No human data on the effect of recombinant crisantaspase on fertility are available. In a fertility and 
early embryonic development study in rats with Erwinia chrysanthemi crisantaspase, there were no 
effect on female or male fertility (margins of human exposure < 1) (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Enrylaze has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. This influence is based on the 
adverse reactions that may occur during treatment (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Serious adverse reactions occurred in 59% of patients who received Enrylaze in a clinical trial. The 
most frequent serious adverse reactions were febrile neutropenia (29%), pyrexia (10%), vomiting 
(8%), sepsis (7%), medicinal product hypersensitivity (6%), nausea (6%), and pancreatitis (5%). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most common adverse reactions were anaemia (52%), vomiting (49%), thrombocytopenia (42%), 
neutropenia (41%), nausea (38%), febrile neutropenia (32%), fatigue (32%), pyrexia (32%), decreased 
appetite (29%), transaminase increased (29%), abdominal pain (27%), white blood cell count 
decreased (27%), headache (25%), diarrhoea (22%), and lymphocyte count decreased (20%).  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions reported in clinical trial are listed in Table 1 by system organ class and by 
frequency. The frequencies identified are from patients (n=228) who received 6 doses of Enrylaze, 
along with a multi-agent chemotherapeutic regimen. Certain adverse reactions listed below, such as 
reactions resulting from bone marrow suppression, and infections, are known to be associated with 
multi-agent chemotherapeutic regimens, and the contributory role of Enrylaze is not clear. In 
individual cases of adverse reactions, other medicinal products of the regimen may have contributed.  
Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon 
(≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000); not known (cannot be estimated from the 
available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of 
decreasing seriousness. 
Table 1: Adverse reactions in patients receiving Enrylaze with multi-agent chemotherapy (Study 
JZP458-201) 
System organ class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Frequency 
Common 
Adverse reaction 
Sepsis 
Very common 
Anaemia, Thrombocytopenia, Neutropenia, Febrile 
neutropenia  
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Drug hypersensitivity 
Anaphylactic reaction, Hypersensitivity 
Decreased appetite, Hyperglycaemia, Hypoalbuminemia 
Hypertriglyceridemia, Hypoglycaemia, 
Hyperammonaemia 
Anxiety 
Irritability 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Superior sagittal sinus thrombosis 
Hypotension 
Vascular disorders  Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Jugular vein thrombosis, Deep vein thrombosis 
Pulmonary embolism 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Vomiting, Nausea, Abdominal pain, Diarrhoea  
Pancreatitis 
Rash maculo-papular, Pruritus, Rash, Urticaria, Rash 
erythematous,  
Very common 
Pain in extremity 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
7 
 
 
 
 
General disorders 
and administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Very common 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Injury, poisoning 
and procedural 
complications  
Very common 
Common 
Fatigue, Pyrexia 
Injection site pain, Injection site reaction  
Transaminases increased, White blood cell count 
decreased, Lymphocyte count decreased, Weight 
decreased, Blood bilirubin increased 
Blood creatinine increased , Activated partial 
thromboplastin time prolonged, Blood fibrinogen 
decreased, Antithrombin III decreased  
Contusion 
Infusion-related reaction 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Hypersensitivity 
Hypersensitivity reactions were reported adverse reactions in the Enrylaze clinical trial. The incidence 
of medicinal product hypersensitivity was 11% and it was severe in 8% of patients. The incidence of 
anaphylactic reaction was 2%, and it was severe in all patients. Overall hypersensitivity reactions 
observed more frequently in patients who received Enrylaze intravenously. The frequency of 
hypersensitivity reactions leading to discontinuation was 10% (see section 4.4). 
Pancreatitis 
Cases of pancreatitis including life threatening cases have been reported in the Enrylaze clinical trial. 
The incidence of pancreatitis was 7%; the incidence of serious events of pancreatitis was 5%; the 
incidence of life-threatening pancreatitis was 1%. One patient developed pancreatic pseudocyst after 
acute pancreatitis, which resolved without sequelae. The frequency of pancreatitis in Study 
JZP458-201 which led to discontinuation was 5% (see section 4.4). 
Adults and other special populations 
Although the safety profile of adults above 25 years of age has not been studied, some adverse 
reactions, such as hepatotoxicity, thrombosis, and pancreatitis, have been reported more frequently in 
adults with acute lymphoblastic leukemia receiving other asparaginases than in paediatric patients. 
Immunogencity 
It has been reported that there is no to little cross reactivity between crisantaspase and other E. coli 
derived asparaginase.  
As with all therapeutic proteins, there is a potential for immunogenicity. Immunogenicity assays are 
highly dependent on the sensitivity and specificity of the assay and may be influenced by several 
factors such as assay methodology, sample handling, timing of sample collection, concomitant 
treatment, and underlying disease. For these reasons, comparison of the incidence of antibodies to 
Enrylaze with the incidence of antibodies to other products may be misleading. 
Analysis of patients receiving Enrylaze by either intramuscular injection (n=167) or intravenous 
infusion (n=61) showed that 116 of 228 (51%) patients had confirmed positive anti-drug antibodies 
(ADA) toward Enrylaze, 8 (7%) of these were ADA positive at pre dose 1.  
A total of 23 (20%) patients who had ADAs experienced hypersensitivity reactions of which 6 (5%) 
had neutralising antibodies. Of the negative ADA patients 7/112 (6%) experienced a hypersensitivity 
reaction. 
During the course of treatment 73 (63%) patients became ADA negative at least once.  
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Intravenous infusion 
• 
• 
• 
A total of 34 (56%) patients were found to be ADA positive. 
1 patient was ADA positive at pre dose 1.  
33 patients developed ADA toward Enrylaze following administration of Enrylaze. 18 of these 
patients subsequently became ADA negative at least once during the study. 
12 (35%) experienced hypersensitivity reactions during the study, and of these patients 2 had 
neutralising antibodies. Of the negative ADA patients 4/27 (15%) experienced a 
hypersensitivity reaction. 
Intramuscular injection 
• 
• 
• 
A total of 82 (49%) patients were found to be ADA positive. 
7 patients were ADA positive at pre dose 1. 
75 patients developed ADA toward Enrylaze following administration of Enrylaze. 55 of these 
patients subsequently became ADA negative at least once during the study.  
11 (13%) patients experienced hypersensitivity reactions, and of these patients 4 had 
neutralising antibodies. Of the negative ADA positive patients 7/85 (8%) experienced a 
hypersensitivity reaction. 
• 
• 
The presence of ADA does not appear to correlate with the occurrence of hypersensitivity reactions. 
SAA levels were not impacted for applicable ADA positive patients as they maintained SAA levels 
≥ 0.1 U/mL at all available 48- and 72-hour time points during Course 1. No impact on the 
pharmacokinetics of Enrylaze was observed and ADA status was not found to be a significant factor in 
population pharmacokinetic analysis.  
Paediatric population 
The majority of the patients in Study JZP458-201 were children < 18 years old 197/228 (86%) and 
therefore a comparison of frequency and severity in adverse reactions versus other age groups is not 
suitable. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No case of Enrylaze overdose with clinical symptoms has been reported and there is no specific 
antidote. Treatment is symptomatic and supportive. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other antineoplastic agents ATC code: L01XX02.  
Mechanism of action 
Asparaginase is an enzyme that catalyses the conversion of the amino acid L-asparagine into 
L-aspartic acid and ammonia. The pharmacological effect of Enrylaze is based on the killing of 
leukemic cells due to depletion of plasma asparagine. Leukemic cells with low expression of 
asparagine synthetase have a reduced ability to synthesize asparagine, and therefore is dependent on 
an exogenous source of asparagine for survival. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The efficacy and safety of Enrylaze was determined in the clinical trials, an open-label, two-part, 
multi-cohort, multi-centre, multi-agent chemotherapeutic trial that treated 228 adult and paediatric 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
patients with ALL or LBL who developed hypersensitivity to a long-acting E. coli-derived 
asparaginases. The median age of patients was 10 years (range, 1 to 25 years).  
Prior long-acting E. coli-derived asparaginase treatments included pegaspargase for all patients apart 
from one who received other type of E. coli-derived asparaginase. In Study JZP458-201, 190 (83%) 
patients experienced a hypersensitivity (Grade ≥ 3) to a long-acting E. coli-derived asparaginases, 
15 (7%) patients experienced silent inactivation, and 23 (10%) patients experienced an allergic 
reaction with inactivation. The number of courses of Enrylaze received ranged from 1 to 15. 
Patients received 6 doses of Enrylaze, either intramuscularly at 25 mg/m2 or 37.5 mg/m2 three times a 
week (Monday/Wednesday/Friday), or 25 mg/m2 on Monday and Wednesday then 50 mg/m2 on 
Friday by intravenous infusion or an intramuscular injection as a replacement for each dose of E. coli 
derived asparaginase remaining on a patient’s treatment plan.  
The determination of efficacy was based on demonstration of the achievement and maintenance of 
nadir serum asparaginase activity (NSAA) levels ≥ 0.1 U/mL. Serum trough asparaginase activity 
≥ 0.1 U/mL has been demonstrated to correlate with asparagine depletion that predicts clinical efficacy 
(see section 5.2). 
Observed NSAA levels during the clinical trials for indicated dosing schedules are presented in 
Table 2.  
Table 2: Observed NSAA levels ≥ 0.1 U/mL during the clinical trials 
Time Point 
Last 48-hour 
Last 72-hour 
Intramuscularly 25 (MW)/  
50 (F) mg/m2 
Intravenously 25 (MW)/  
50 (F) mg/m2 
95.9% 
[90.4%, 100.0%] 
89.8% 
[81.3%, 98.3%] 
 89.8% 
[82.1%, 97.5%] 
40.0% 
[26.4%, 53.6%] 
MW=Monday, Wednesday  
MWF=Monday, Wednesday, Friday 
The other recommended dosing schedules are based on interpolation from pharmacokinetic (PK) and 
response rates observed with the very similar investigated regimens. 
Paediatric population 
No clinically significant difference is expected in probability of achieving a therapeutic NSAA 
≥ 0.1 U/mL based on age (1 month to 39 years) following the proposed Body surface area 
(BSA)-based dosing regimens. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The PK of Enrylaze was determined based on SAA. Patients received 6 doses of Enrylaze at various 
doses intramuscularly on Monday, Wednesday and Friday or 25 mg/m2 administered intramuscularly 
or intravenously on Monday and Wednesday and 50 mg/m2 on Friday as a replacement for each dose 
of a long-acting E. coli-derived asparaginase remaining on their original treatment plan. Recombinant 
crisantaspase maximum SAA (Cmax) and area under the SAA-time curve (AUC) increase 
approximately proportionally over a dose range from 12.5 to 50 mg/m2. The trough SAA at 48-hour 
(Ctrough,48) or 72-hour (Ctrough,72) post the last dose for recombinant crisantaspase are summarised in 
Table 3. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Enrylaze pharmacokinetic parameters based on SAA  
PK 
Parametera 
Mean (95% CI) after last dose 
25/25/50 mg/m2 
Monday, Wednesday, Friday 
Intramuscularly 
25/25/50 mg/m2 
Monday, Wednesday, Friday 
Intravenously 
Ctrough,48 (U/mL) 
Ctrough,72 (U/mL) 
N =49 
N=49 
0.66  
(0.54-0.77) 
0.47  
(0.35-0.59) 
N = 59 
N =50 
0.25  
(0.20-0.29) 
0.10  
(0.07-0.13) 
a: Ctrough,48: Trough SAA at 48 hour post the last 25 mg/m2 dose in cycle 1; Ctrough,72: Trough SAA at 72 hour post 
the last 50 mg/m2 dose in cycle 1.  
Absorption  
The median Tmax of recombinant crisantaspase is 16 hours following intramuscular administration. The 
mean absolute bioavailability for intramuscular administration is 38%. 
Distribution  
Following intravenous administration, the geometric mean (%CV) volume of distribution of 
recombinant crisantaspase is 1.75 L/m2 (14%). 
Biotransformation 
Recombinant crisantaspase is expected to be metabolized into small peptides by catabolic pathways. 
Elimination  
Following intravenous administration, the geometric mean (%CV) clearance of recombinant 
crisantaspase is 0.14 L/hour/m2 (20%).  
The geometric mean (%CV) half-life is 8.6 hours (13%) following intravenous administration and 
18.8 hours (11%) following intramuscular administration. 
Special populations 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
There was no dedicated study on renal or hepatic impairment with Enrylaze. 
During treatment dose adjustment is not required for patients with total bilirubin ≤ 3 times the Upper 
Limit of Normal; there is limited data with Enrylaze in patients with total bilirubin > 3 times to 
≤ 10 times the ULN.  
Dose adjustment is not required for patients with pre-existing mild or moderate hepatic impairment 
(total bilirubin > 1 to 3 times the ULN or AST > than the ULN). There are insufficient data in patients 
with pre-existing severe hepatic impairment to support a dose recommendation.There are insufficient 
data in patients with mild, moderate or severe renal impairment to support a dose recommendation. 
Age, weight, body surface area and sex  
There were no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of Enrylaze based on weight 
(9 to 131 kg) or sex (n=138 male; n=88 female) after the dose was adjusted by body surface area 
(BSA). 
The volume of distribution and clearance of recombinant crisantaspase increase with increasing BSA 
(0.44 to 2.53 m2). 
Age impacts absorption rate constant whereas younger subjects have higher absorption rate constant 
value, leading to earlier Tmax.  
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Race 
Black or African American patients (n=24) had 25% lower clearance which may increase SAA 
exposure compared to population average (n=226). No dose adjustment is needed in African American 
population. There were no clinically significant differences in clearance between Hispanic (n=73) and 
Non-Hispanic (n=139) patients. 
Neutralising antibodies 
As with other asparaginase preparations, development of specific neutralising antibodies were 
identified with repeated dosing. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In a study, recombinant crisantaspase was administered intravenously to groups of rats for up to 
14 consecutive days. Adverse effects in naïve animals, which were typical for asparaginases, were 
noted at exposures greater than 3.6 times the maximum human exposure. 
Carcinogenicity, mutagenicity, and reproductive toxicity studies have not been conducted with 
Enrylaze. 
In embryofoetal development studies in rats and rabbits, Erwinia chrysanthemi L-asparaginase 
produced maternal toxicity, increased resorptions, post implantation loss, embryofoetal toxicity, and/or 
gross abnormalities at exposures lower than those observed clinically (margins of exposure < 1). 
In rat fertility and pre- and post-natal development studies with Erwinia chrysanthemi L-asparaginase, 
there were no adverse effects on fertility or development, but the exposures were lower than those 
observed clinically (margins of exposure < 1). 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Trehalose dihydrate 
Sodium chloride 
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) 
Disodium phosphate  
Sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate  
Polysorbate 80  
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products except those mentioned in section 6.6. This includes infusion of other medicinal products 
using the same infusion line as Enrylaze. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vial 
3 years. 
In-use stability data 
From a microbiological point of view, unless the method of opening/dilution precludes the risk of 
microbial contamination, the product should be used immediately. If not used immediately, in-use 
storage times and conditions are the responsibility of the user. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Intramuscular preparation 
Chemical and physical in-use stability for intramuscular preparations in a polypropylene syringe has 
been demonstrated for up to 8 hours at room temperature (15 °C–25 °C) or 24 hours when refrigerated 
(2 °C–8 °C). 
Intravenous preparation  
Chemical and physical in-use stability for intravenous preparations has been demonstrated for up to 
12 hours at room temperature (15 °C–25 °C) or 24 hours when refrigerated (2 °C–8 °C). The storage 
times start from withdrawing the required volume from the unopened vials. The storage time in the 
polyethylene inner lined intravenous bag includes the 2-hour administration time (see section 6.6). 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C–8 °C) in an upright position.  
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light.  
Do not freeze. 
For storage conditions after dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
2 mL Type 1 clear borosilicate glass vial sealed with a halobutyl rubber stopper and aluminium 
overseal and a violet plastic cap. 
Pack size: 3 vials. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Precautions 
Compatibility has been demonstrated in the following materials. No other materials have been studied.  
• 
• 
Syringes made of polypropylene 
Intravenous infusion sets made of PVC, polyolefin, polyamide, and ethylene vinyl acetate  
• 
• 
Preparation instructions 
• 
Determine the posology, and number of vials of Enrylaze based on the individual patient’s BSA 
as outlined in section 4.2. More than one vial may be needed for a full dose 
Remove the appropriate number of vials of Enrylaze from the refrigerator 
o 
o 
Do not shake the vials 
Each vial should be inspected for particles. If particles are observed and/or the liquid in 
the vial is not clear, the vial must not be used 
•  Withdraw the required volume of Enrylaze into a syringe 
Subsequent steps for intravenous infusion preparation 
• 
The prepared dose of Enrylaze in the syringe should be further diluted in an infusion bag 
containing 100 mL of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection 
The intravenous infusion prepared dose should be a clear liquid free from visual particulates.  
If particles are observed in the intravenous infusion prepared dose, the solution must not 
o 
be used 
The start of storage mentioned starts from withdrawing the required volume from the vial 
(see section 6.3) 
The 12- or 24-hour storage time includes the recommended 2-hour infusion time 
o 
o 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Jazz Pharmaceuticals Ireland Ltd 
5th Floor 
Waterloo Exchange 
Waterloo Road 
Dublin 4 
D04 E5W7 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1747/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation:  
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT  
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer of the biological active substance 
AGC Biologics, Inc. (legal name CMC Biologics, Inc.) 
Vandtaarnsvej 83B Soeborg 
Copenhagen DK-2860 
Denmark 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Jazz Pharmaceuticals Ireland Ltd 
5th Floor 
Waterloo Exchange 
Waterloo Road 
Dublin 4 
D04 E5W7 
Ireland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2) 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European Medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Enrylaze 10 mg/0.5 mL solution for injection/infusion 
recombinant crisantaspase 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 0.5 mL solution of 10 mg of recombinant crisantaspase. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Trehalose dihydrate, sodium chloride, sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment), disodium phosphate, 
sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate, polysorbate 80, and water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection/infusion 
3 vials 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For intravenous or intramuscular use. 
Do not shake.  
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator.  
Do not freeze. 
Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Store in an upright position. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Jazz Pharmaceuticals Ireland Ltd  
5th Floor 
Waterloo Exchange 
Waterloo Road 
Dublin 4 
D04 E5W7 
Ireland  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1747/001  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
21 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Enrylaze 10 mg/ 0.5 mL injection/infusion 
recombinant crisantaspase 
IV or IM IV/IM 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
6. 
OTHER 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Enrylaze 10 mg/0.5 mL solution for injection/infusion 
recombinant crisantaspase 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start receiving this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Enrylaze is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you are given Enrylaze 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Enrylaze is given  
Possible side effects  
How Enrylaze is stored 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Enrylaze is and what it is used for 
Enrylaze contains the active substance recombinant crisantaspase. It is a medicine used alongside 
other medicines to treat acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) and lymphoblastic lymphoma (LBL). 
Enrylaze can be given to patients aged 1 months of age or older.  
Enrylaze contains a protein made in the laboratory by recombinant DNA technology. This protein 
works by decreasing the amount of a protein called asparagine. This protein is needed by the ALL and 
LBL cancer cells to survive. 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Enrylaze  
You should not receive Enrylaze  
• 
• 
if you have a severe allergic reaction to Enrylaze. 
if you have an allergic reaction to any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in  
section 6). 
if you are currently experiencing severe pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas). 
if you have experienced severe pancreatitis after being treated with asparaginase therapies. 
if you have experienced serious blood clots after being treated with asparaginase therapies. 
if you have experienced serious bleeding events after being treated with asparaginase therapies. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before you receive Enrylaze. 
The following problems may occur during treatment with Enrylaze: 
• 
serious allergic reactions that may be life threatening. The hospital will ensure they are prepared 
to address any allergic reactions that may occur during treatment. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
inflammation of your pancreas. Discomfort or pain in your stomach or back area may be a sign 
of pancreatitis and should be reported to your doctor straight away. 
changes in your body’s ability to manage blood sugar levels. Your doctor should monitor your 
glucose levels whilst on treatment and provide insulin if necessary. 
unusual bleeding events or blood clots. If either of these events occur treatment will be paused 
by your doctor until they are resolved. 
issues with your liver. Your doctor will monitor you to identify if you are experiencing any 
issues with your liver and treat you as necessary.  
central nervous system toxicity, such as seizures and impaired neurological function. Also, 
instances of posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (characterised by headache, 
confusion, seizures and loss of vision) may require blood-pressure lowering medicines and in 
case of seizure, treatment with anti-epileptic medicines. 
Monitoring during treatment with Enrylaze 
You will be monitored during and after treatment with Enrylaze for: 
• 
• 
• 
allergic reactions 
functioning of your pancreas and liver 
blood sugar levels 
Other medicines and Enrylaze 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. In particular inform your doctor or pharmacist if you have or are receiving: 
• 
methotrexate or cytarabine, used in cancer treatment. Use of these medicines immediately 
before Enrylaze may increase their effect. 
vincristine, used in cancer treatment. Use of vincristine with Enrylaze may increase the toxicity 
of vincristine. 
glucocorticoids, used as anti-inflammation medicines. Use of these medicines immediately 
before Enrylaze may increase the formation of blood clots.  
• 
• 
Pregnancy 
Enrylaze should not be used during pregnancy, and women should check they are not pregnant prior to 
starting therapy. If you are pregnant or think you may be pregnant, ask your doctor or pharmacist for 
advice before receiving this medicine. 
Breast-feeding 
You should not breast-feed during treatment and for two weeks following treatment with Enrylaze, as 
there may be a risk to the breast-feeding child. 
Family planning 
Both men and women should use a form of contraception and avoid conceiving a child during 
treatment with Enrylaze and for 3 months after you last receive Enrylaze. Hormonal contraceptives are 
not recommended for use in women when being treated with Enrylaze. 
Women should undergo pregnancy testing before starting treatment. 
Driving and using machines 
Enrylaze can cause you to feel sick and have a headache. This may impact your ability to drive and 
operate machines. 
Enrylaze contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose unit, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium free’. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
How Enrylaze is given 
Your doctor will determine what dose you are given and whether it will be given to you by an infusion 
into your veins or an injection into your muscle. You may also be given some other medicines before 
you start receiving Enrylaze, such as paracetamol, H1 and H2 blocker. 
The dose and how it is given may vary depending on your specific condition, body surface area and 
response to therapy.  
If you are given Enrylaze into your veins, this will be given over a 2-hour period. If you are given 
Enrylaze into a muscle, several injection sites may be used. 
If you think you have been given more Enrylaze than you should 
If you have any concerns, contact your doctor or any healthcare professional immediately. 
If you think you have missed a dose of Enrylaze 
If you have any concerns, contact your doctor or any healthcare professional immediately. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. For 
patients treated with Enrylaze the following side effects were reported. 
Serious side effects 
Tell your doctor immediately if you experience: 
Symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including swelling of the face, shortness of breath, hay fever 
like symptoms, rash, chills, wheezing, flushing, vomiting, high or low blood pressure. In severe cases 
anaphylaxis (a sudden, severe allergic reaction with breathing difficulty, swelling, 
light-headedness, fast heartbeat, sweating and loss of consciousness) can also occur. 
Symptoms of blood clots, including in the blood vessels of the lung which could present as sudden 
shortness of breath, chest pain, or coughing up blood and the blood vessels of the brain which could 
present with symptoms such as weakness/numbness, seizure, trouble speaking, or severe headache.  
Symptoms of pancreatitis, including abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, back pain, or loss of appetite. 
Other side effects 
Talk to your doctor if you get any of the following: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
allergic reaction, including rash, itching, and hives 
infections 
low levels of red blood cells (anaemia) 
low levels of blood platelets (thrombocytopenia) 
low levels of white blood cells (white blood cell count decreased) 
low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell that fights off infection (neutropenia) 
low levels of white blood cells (neutrophils) with fever due to infection (febrile neutropenia)  
low levels of lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell that fights off infection (lymphocyte count 
decreased) 
pain in your stomach (abdominal pain) 
diarrhoea 
feeling sick (nausea) 
vomiting 
tiredness (fatigue) 
fever (pyrexia) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
high blood sugar levels (hyperglycaemia) 
pain in limbs (pain in extremity) 
weight loss (weight decreased) 
headache 
decreased appetite 
abnormal liver function test (transaminases increased, blood bilirubin increased) 
decreased albumin (a blood protein) level (hypoalbuminaemia) 
anxiety 
bruising (contusion) 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
blood poisoning (sepsis)  
sudden, severe allergic reaction with breathing difficulty, swelling, lightheadedness, fast 
heartbeat, sweating and loss of consciousness (anaphylactic reaction) 
skin rash characterized with flat, discolored patches (macules) and raised, reddened bumps 
(papules) (rash maculo-papular) 
skin rash with redness and inflamation (rash erythematous) 
hives (urticaria) 
itchy skin (pruritus) 
inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) 
injection site pain  
injection site reaction 
infusion related reactions 
abnormal blood clotting factor levels (prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time, 
decreased antithrombin III, decreased blood fibrinogen) 
abnormal kidney function (increased blood creatinine) 
low blood sugar levels (hypoglycaemia) 
low blood pressure (hypotension) 
blood clots, including in the blood vessels of the lung and brain 
irritability 
dizziness 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
blood clot in a major brain vein (superior sagittal sinus thrombosis) 
blood clot in the neck vein (jugular vein thrombosis) 
blood clot in extremity veins (deep vein thrombosis) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How Enrylaze will be stored 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and vial after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store the unopened vials in a refrigerator (2 °C–8 °C) in an upright position. Do not freeze. Keep the 
vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
After preparing a dose in a syringe, Enrylaze can be stored for up to 8 hours at room temperature 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(15 °C–25 °C) or 24 hours when refrigerated (2 °C–8 °C).  
After dilution in an intravenous bag, Enrylaze can be stored for up to 12 hours at room temperature 
(15 °C–25 °C) or 24 hours when refrigerated (2 °C–8 °C). Storage time starts once the solution has 
been withdrawn from the unopened vials. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice any particles in the solution. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater. Ask your pharmacist how to throw away medicines 
you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Enrylaze contains  
• 
• 
The active substance is recombinant crisantaspase. Each vial contains 10 mg of recombinant 
crisantaspase in 0.5 mL solution. 
The other ingredients are trehalose dihydrate, sodium chloride (see section 2 “Enrylaze contains 
sodium”), sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment), disodium phosphate, sodium dihydrogen 
phosphate monohydrate, polysorbate 80 and water for injections. 
What Enrylaze looks like and contents of the pack 
Enrylaze is a clear to slightly yellow solution for injection/infusion, free from particulate matter. 
One carton contains 3 glass vials, each with 0.5 mL of solution for injection/infusion. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Jazz Pharmaceuticals Ireland Ltd  
5th Floor 
Waterloo Exchange 
Waterloo Road 
Dublin 4 
D04 E5W7 
Ireland 
Tel: +353 1 968 1631 
Email: medinfo-int@jazzpharma.com 
This leaflet was last revised in:  
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments. 
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
