EMA/645676/2011  
EMEA/H/C/002440 
EPAR summary for the public 
Entacapone Orion 
entacapone 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Entacapone Orion. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Entacapone Orion. 
What is Entacapone Orion? 
Entacapone Orion is a medicine that contains the active substance entacapone. It is available as 
tablets (200 mg). 
This medicine is the same as Comtess, which is already authorised in the European Union (EU). The 
company that makes Comtess has agreed that its scientific data can be used for Entacapone Orion 
(‘informed consent’).  
What is Entacapone Orion used for? 
Entacapone Orion is used to treat patients with Parkinson’s disease. Parkinson’s disease is a 
progressive brain disorder that causes shaking, slow movement and muscle stiffness. Entacapone 
Orion is used together with levodopa (either a combination of levodopa and benserazide or a 
combination of levodopa and carbidopa) when the patient is having ‘fluctuations’ towards the end of 
the period between two doses of their medication. Fluctuations happen when the effects of the 
medication wear off and symptoms re-emerge. They are linked with a reduction in the effects of 
levodopa, when the patient experiences sudden switches between being ‘on’ and able to move, and 
being ‘off’ and having difficulties moving about. Entacapone Orion is used when these fluctuations 
cannot be treated with the standard levodopacontaining combination alone. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription.  
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How is Entacapone Orion used? 
Entacapone Orion is only used in combination either with levodopa and benserazide or with levodopa 
and carbidopa. It is taken as one tablet with each dose of the other medicine, up to a maximum of 10 
tablets a day. It can be taken with or without food. When patients first add Entacapone Orion to their 
existing medication, they may need to take a lower daily dose of levodopa, either by changing how 
often they take it, or by reducing the amount of levodopa taken in each dose. Entacapone Orion can 
only be used with conventional combinations of levodopa. It should not be used with combinations that 
are ‘modified release’ (when the levodopa is released slowly over a few hours). 
How does Entacapone Orion work? 
In patients with Parkinson’s disease, the cells in the brain that produce the neurotransmitter dopamine 
begin to die and the amount of dopamine in the brain decreases. The patients then lose their ability to 
control their movements reliably. The active substance in Entacapone Orion, entacapone, works to 
restore the levels of dopamine in the parts of the brain that control movement and co-ordination. It 
only works when it is taken with levodopa, a copy of the neurotransmitter dopamine that can be taken 
by mouth. Entacapone blocks an enzyme that is involved in the breakdown of levodopa in the body 
called catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT). As a result, levodopa remains active for longer. This 
helps to improve the symptoms of Parkinson’s disease, such as stiffness and slowness of movement. 
How has Entacapone Orion been studied? 
Entacapone Orion has been studied in a total of 376 patients with Parkinson’s disease, in two six-
month studies that measured the effects of adding Entacapone Orion or placebo (a dummy medicine) 
to the patient’s combination of levodopa and carbidopa or levodopa and benserazide. The main 
measure of effectiveness was the time spent in the ‘on’ state (the time when levodopa is controlling 
the symptoms of Parkinson’s disease) after the first levodopa dose of the morning in the first study, 
and over one day in the second study. 
What benefit has Entacapone Orion shown during the studies? 
Entacapone Orion was more effective than placebo in both studies. In the first study, adding 
Entacapone Orion increased the ‘on’ time by 1 hour and 18 minutes more than adding placebo. In the 
second study, the ‘on’ time was increased by 35 minutes compared with placebo. 
What is the risk associated with Entacapone Orion? 
The most common side effects with Entacapone Orion (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are 
dyskinesia (uncontrollable movements), nausea (feeling sick) and harmless urine discoloration. For the 
full list of all side effects reported with Entacapone Orion, see the package leaflet. 
Entacapone Orion should not be used in people who may be hypersensitive (allergic) to entacapone or 
any of the other ingredients. Entacapone Orion should not be used in patients with: 
 
 
 
liver disease; 
phaeochromocytoma (a tumour of the adrenal gland); 
a history of neuroleptic malignant syndrome (a dangerous nervous system disorder usually caused 
by antipsychotic medicines) or rhabdomyolysis (breakdown of muscle fibres). 
Entacapone Orion  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
 
Entacapone Orion should not be used together with other medicines that belong to the group 
‘monoamine oxidase inhibitors’ (a type of antidepressant). See the summary of product characteristics 
(also part of the EPAR) for full details. 
Why has Entacapone Orion been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Entacapone Orion’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it 
be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Entacapone Orion 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Entacapone Orion on 18 August 2011.  
The full EPAR for Entacapone Orion can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Entacapone Orion, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2011. 
Entacapone Orion  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
 
