EMA/711722/2015  
EMEA/H/C/002075 
EPAR summary for the public 
Entacapone Teva 
entacapone 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Entacapone Teva. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Entacapone Teva. 
What is Entacapone Teva? 
Entacapone Teva is a medicine that contains the active substance entacapone. It is available as tablets 
(200 mg).  
Entacapone Teva is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Entacapone Teva is similar to a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Comtess. For more information on 
generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Entacapone Teva used for? 
Entacapone Teva is used to treat patients with Parkinson’s disease. Parkinson’s disease is a progressive 
brain disorder that causes shaking, slow movement and muscle stiffness. Entacapone Teva is used 
together with levodopa (either a combination of levodopa and benserazide or a combination of 
levodopa and carbidopa) when the patient is having ‘fluctuations’ towards the end of the period 
between two doses of their medication. Fluctuations happen when the effects of the medication wear 
off and symptoms re-emerge. They are linked with a reduction in the effects of levodopa, when the 
patient experiences sudden switches between being ‘on’ and able to move, and being ‘off’ and having 
difficulties moving about. Entacapone Teva is used when these fluctuations cannot be treated with the 
standard levodopa-containing combination alone. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How is Entacapone Teva used? 
Entacapone Teva is only used in combination either with levodopa and benserazide or with levodopa 
and carbidopa. It is taken as one tablet with each dose of the other medicine, up to a maximum of 10 
tablets a day. When patients first add Entacapone Teva to their existing medication, they may need to 
take a lower daily dose of levodopa, either by changing how often they take it, or by reducing the 
amount of levodopa taken in each dose. Entacapone Teva can only be used with conventional 
combinations of levodopa. It should not be used with combinations that are ‘modified release’ (when 
the levodopa is released slowly over a few hours). 
How does Entacapone Teva work? 
In patients with Parkinson’s disease, the cells in the brain that produce the neurotransmitter dopamine 
begin to die and the amount of dopamine in the brain decreases. The patients then lose their ability to 
control their movements reliably. The active substance in Entacapone Teva, entacapone, works to 
restore the levels of dopamine in the parts of the brain that control movement and co-ordination. It 
only works when it is taken with levodopa, a copy of the neurotransmitter dopamine that can be taken 
by mouth. Entacapone blocks an enzyme that is involved in the breakdown of levodopa in the body 
called catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT). As a result, levodopa remains active for longer. This 
helps to improve the symptoms of Parkinson’s disease, such as stiffness and slowness of movement. 
How has Entacapone Teva been studied? 
Because Entacapone Teva is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests to 
determine that it is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Comtess. Two medicines are bioequivalent 
when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Entacapone Teva? 
Because Entacapone Teva is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Entacapone Teva been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Entacapone Teva has been shown to 
have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Comtess. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as 
for Comtess, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Entacapone 
Teva be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Entacapone Teva 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union 
for Entacapone Teva on 18 February 2011.  
The full EPAR for Entacapone Teva can be found on the Agency’s website ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Entacapone Teva, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
Entacapone Teva  
EMA/711722/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
This summary was last updated in 11-2015. 
Entacapone Teva  
EMA/711722/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
