EMA/545515/2017 
EMEA/H/C/004458 
EPAR summary for the public 
Entecavir Accord 
entecavir 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Entecavir Accord. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Entecavir Accord. 
For practical information about using Entecavir Accord, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Entecavir Accord and what is it used for? 
Entecavir Accord is a medicine used to treat chronic (long-term) hepatitis B (an infectious disease of 
the liver, caused by the hepatitis B virus). 
It is used in adults with signs of ongoing liver injury (such as inflammation and fibrosis) when the liver 
is still working properly (compensated liver disease) and also when the liver is no longer working 
properly (decompensated liver disease). 
It can also be considered for children aged from 2 to 18 years but only in those with compensated liver 
disease. 
Entecavir Accord contains the active substance entecavir and is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that 
Entecavir Accord contains the same active substance and works in the same way as a ‘reference 
medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Baraclude. For more information on 
generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Entecavir Accord used? 
Entecavir Accord can only be obtained with a prescription and is available as tablets (0.5 mg and 1 
mg). Treatment with Entecavir Accord should be started by a doctor with experience in the 
management of chronic hepatitis B.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Entecavir Accord is taken once a day. For adults with compensated liver disease, the dose depends on 
whether or not the patient has been previously treated with a medicine in the same group as Entecavir 
Accord (a nucleoside analogue, such as lamivudine). Patients who have not been treated before with a 
nucleoside analogue receive a 0.5 mg dose, while those who have received lamivudine before but 
whose infection is no longer responding to it are given a 1 mg dose. The 0.5 mg dose can be taken 
with or without food, but the 1 mg dose must be taken at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after a meal. 
The treatment duration is determined by how the patient responds. 
The 1 mg daily dose is also used in adults with decompensated liver disease and stopping treatment is 
not recommended in these patients. 
When treatment is considered appropriate in children, the dose depends on their body weight. Children 
weighing 32.6 kg and above can be given the 0.5 mg tablets, while an oral solution of entecavir may 
be available for children weighing less than 32.6 kg.  For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Entecavir Accord work? 
The active substance in Entecavir Accord, entecavir, is an antiviral belonging to the class of the 
nucleoside analogues. Entecavir interferes with the action of a viral enzyme, DNA polymerase, which is 
involved in the formation of viral DNA. Entecavir stops the virus making DNA, and prevents it from 
multiplying and spreading.  
How has Entecavir Accord been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the approved uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Baraclude, and do not need to be repeated for Entecavir 
Accord.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Entecavir Accord. The company 
also carried out a study that showed that it is ‘bioequivalent’ to the reference medicine. Two medicines 
are bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body and are 
therefore expected to have the same effect. 
What are the benefits and risks of Entecavir Accord? 
Because Entecavir Accord is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why is Entecavir Accord approved? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Entecavir Accord 
has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Baraclude. Therefore, the 
Agency’s view was that, as for Baraclude, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Agency 
recommended that Entecavir Accord be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Entecavir Accord? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Entecavir Accord have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet.   
Entecavir Accord  
EMA/545515/2017  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Entecavir Accord 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Entecavir Accord on 26 September 2017. 
The full EPAR for Entecavir Accord can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Entecavir Accord, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 09-2017. 
Entecavir Accord  
EMA/545515/2017  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
