Summary of risk management plan for Entecavir Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg (Entecavir) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Entecavir Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg, 
tablets. The RMP details important risks of entecavir, how these risks can be minimised, and how 
more information will be obtained about entecavir 's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Entecavir Mylan  0.5 mg  and 1 mg  tablets’ summary  of  product  characteristics (SmPC) and its 
package leaflet (PL) give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how it 
should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Entecavir Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg tablets should be read in the 
context  of  all  the  information  including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-
language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Entecavir 
Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg tablets. 
The medicine and what it is used for 
Entecavir Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg tablet is authorised for chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection 
in adult patients with 
•  Compensated liver disease with proven active viral replication, persistently elevated serum 
alanine  aminotransferase  (ALT)  levels  and  histological  findings  of  active  inflammation 
and/or fibrosis. 
•  decompensated liver disease. 
Further information about the evaluation of Entecavir Mylan’s 0.5 mg and 1 mg tablet benefits can 
be found in Entecavir’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website.  
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the 
risks 
Important risks of Entecavir Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg tablet together with measures to minimise 
such risks about Entecavir Mylan’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL and 
SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals. 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging. 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly. 
•  The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  public  (e.g.,  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimises its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.  
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  events  is  collected  continuously  and 
regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment,  so  that  immediate  action  can  be  taken  as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Entecavir Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg tablet 
is not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Entecavir  Mylan  0.5  mg  and  1  mg  tablet  are  risks  that  need  special  risk 
management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can 
be  safely  administered  to  patients.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential. 
Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Entecavir 
Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg tablet Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use 
of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established 
yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the 
medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of 
the medicine/use in special patient populations etc.). 
Table: Summary of safety concerns 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
• 
• 
• 
ETV resistance  
Exacerbation of hepatitis (ALT increase/hepatic flare)  
Emergence  of  resistant  HIV  in  HIV/HBV  coinfected 
patients 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
• 
• 
Mitochondrial toxicity (including lactic acidosis) 
Use in pregnancy 
List of important risks and missing information  
• 
Use in patients with severe acute exacerbation of chronic 
Hepatitis B 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Entecavir Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg tablet. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Entecavir Mylan 0.5 mg and 1 mg tablet. 
 
 
