ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entresto 24 mg/26 mg film-coated tablets 
Entresto 49 mg/51 mg film-coated tablets 
Entresto 97 mg/103 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Entresto 24 mg/26 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 24.3 mg sacubitril and 25.7 mg valsartan (as sacubitril valsartan 
sodium salt complex). 
Entresto 49 mg/51 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 48.6 mg sacubitril and 51.4 mg valsartan (as sacubitril valsartan 
sodium salt complex). 
Entresto 97 mg/103 mg film-coated tablets 
Each film-coated tablet contains 97.2 mg sacubitril and 102.8 mg valsartan (as sacubitril valsartan 
sodium salt complex). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet (tablet) 
Entresto 24 mg/26 mg film-coated tablets 
Violet white ovaloid biconvex film-coated tablet with bevelled edges, unscored, debossed with “NVR” 
on one side and “LZ” on the other side. Approximate tablet dimensions 13.1 mm x 5.2 mm. 
Entresto 49 mg/51 mg film-coated tablets 
Pale yellow ovaloid biconvex film-coated tablet with bevelled edges, unscored, debossed with “NVR” 
on one side and “L1” on the other side. Approximate tablet dimensions 13.1 mm x 5.2 mm. 
Entresto 97 mg/103 mg film-coated tablets 
Light pink ovaloid biconvex film-coated tablet with bevelled edges, unscored, debossed with “NVR” 
on one side and “L11” on the other side. Approximate tablet dimensions 15.1 mm x 6.0 mm. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Adult heart failure 
Entresto is indicated in adult patients for treatment of symptomatic chronic heart failure with reduced 
ejection fraction (see section 5.1). 
Paediatric heart failure 
Entresto is indicated in children and adolescents aged one year or older for treatment of symptomatic 
chronic heart failure with left ventricular systolic dysfunction (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
General considerations 
Entresto should not be co-administered with an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or an 
angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB). Due to the potential risk of angioedema when used 
concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor, it must not be started for at least 36 hours after discontinuing 
ACE inhibitor therapy (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5). 
The valsartan contained within Entresto is more bioavailable than the valsartan in other marketed 
tablet formulations (see section 5.2). 
If a dose is missed, the patient should take the next dose at the scheduled time. 
Adult heart failure 
The recommended starting dose of Entresto is one tablet of 49 mg/51 mg twice daily, except in the 
situations described below. The dose should be doubled at 2-4 weeks to the target dose of one tablet of 
97 mg/103 mg twice daily, as tolerated by the patient (see section 5.1). 
If patients experience tolerability issues (systolic blood pressure [SBP] ≤95 mmHg, symptomatic 
hypotension, hyperkalaemia, renal dysfunction), adjustment of concomitant medicinal products, 
temporary down–titration or discontinuation of Entresto is recommended (see section 4.4). 
In PARADIGM-HF study, Entresto was administered in conjunction with other heart failure therapies, 
in place of an ACE inhibitor or other ARB (see section 5.1). There is limited experience in patients not 
currently taking an ACE inhibitor or an ARB or taking low doses of these medicinal products, 
therefore a starting dose of 24 mg/26 mg twice daily and slow dose titration (doubling every 
3-4 weeks) are recommended in these patients (see “Titration” in section 5.1). 
Treatment should not be initiated in patients with serum potassium level >5.4 mmol/l or with SBP 
<100 mmHg (see section 4.4). A starting dose of 24 mg/26 mg twice daily should be considered for 
patients with SBP ≥100 to 110 mmHg. 
Paediatric heart failure 
Table 1 shows the recommended dose for paediatric patients. The recommended dose should be taken 
orally twice daily. The dose should be increased every 2-4 weeks to the target dose, as tolerated by the 
patient. 
Entresto film-coated tablets are not suitable for children weighing less than 40 kg. Entresto granules 
are available for these patients. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 
Recommended dose titration 
Patient weight 
To be given twice daily 
Half the 
starting dose* 
0.8 mg/kg# 
Starting dose 
Intermediate dose 
Target dose 
1.6 mg/kg# 
0.8 mg/kg# 
3.1 mg/kg# 
2.3 mg/kg# 
24 mg/26 mg 
Paediatric patients less 
than 40 kg 
Paediatric patients at least 
40 kg, less than 50 kg 
Paediatric patients at least 
50 kg 
* Half the starting dose is recommended in patients who have not been taking an ACE inhibitor or an 
ARB or have been taking low doses of these medicinal products, patients who have renal impairment 
(estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR] <60 ml/min/1.73 m2) and patients who have moderate 
hepatic impairment (see special populations). 
#0.8 mg/kg, 1.6 mg/kg, 2.3 mg/kg and 3.1 mg/kg refer to the combined amount of sacubitril and 
valsartan and are to be given using granules. 
72 mg/78 mg 
49 mg/51 mg 
72 mg/78 mg 
49 mg/51 mg 
24 mg/26 mg 
97 mg/103 mg 
In patients not currently taking an ACE inhibitor or an ARB or taking low doses of these medicinal 
products, half of the starting dose is recommended. For paediatric patients weighing 40 kg to less than 
50 kg, a starting dose of 0.8 mg/kg twice daily (given as granules) is recommended. After initiation, 
the dose should be increased to the standard starting dose following the recommended dose titration in 
Table 1 and adjusted every 3-4 weeks. 
For example, a paediatric patient weighing 25 kg who has not previously taken an ACE inhibitor 
should start with half the standard starting dose, which corresponds to 20 mg (25 kg × 0.8 mg/kg) 
twice daily, given as granules. After rounding to the closest number of full capsules, this corresponds 
to 2 capsules of 6 mg/6 mg sacubitril/valsartan twice daily. 
Treatment should not be initiated in patients with serum potassium level >5.3 mmol/l or with SBP <5th 
percentile for the age of the patient. If patients experience tolerability issues (SBP <5th percentile for 
the age of the patient, symptomatic hypotension, hyperkalaemia, renal dysfunction), adjustment of 
concomitant medicinal products, temporary down-titration or discontinuation of Entresto is 
recommended (see section 4.4). 
Special populations 
Elderly 
The dose should be in line with the renal function of the elderly patient. 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild (eGFR 60-90 ml/min/1.73 m2) renal impairment. 
Half of the starting dose should be considered in patients with moderate renal impairment (eGFR 
30-60 ml/min/1.73 m2). As there is very limited clinical experience in patients with severe renal 
impairment (eGFR <30 ml/min/1.73 m2) (see section 5.1), Entresto should be used with caution and 
half of the starting dose is recommended. In paediatric patients weighing 40 kg to less than 50 kg, a 
starting dose of 0.8 mg/kg twice daily (given as granules) is recommended. After initiation, the dose 
should be increased following the recommended dose titration every 2-4 weeks. 
There is no experience in patients with end-stage renal disease and use of Entresto is not 
recommended. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required when administering Entresto to patients with mild hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh A classification). 
There is limited clinical experience in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B 
classification) or with aspartate transaminase (AST)/alanine transaminase (ALT) values more than 
twice the upper limit of the normal range. Entresto should be used with caution in these patients and 
half of the starting dose is recommended (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). In paediatric patients weighing 
40 kg to less than 50 kg, a starting dose of 0.8 mg/kg twice daily (given as granules) is recommended. 
After initiation, the dose should be increased following the recommended dose titration every 2-
4 weeks. 
Entresto is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment, biliary cirrhosis or cholestasis 
(Child-Pugh C classification) (see section 4.3). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Entresto in children aged below 1 year have not been established. Currently 
available data are described in section 5.1 but no recommendation on a posology can be made. 
Method of administration 
Oral use. 
Entresto may be administered with or without food (see section 5.2). The tablets must be swallowed 
with a glass of water. Splitting or crushing of the tablets is not recommended. 
4.3  Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Concomitant use with ACE inhibitors (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). Entresto must not be 
administered until 36 hours after discontinuing ACE inhibitor therapy. 
Known history of angioedema related to previous ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy (see 
section 4.4). 
Hereditary or idiopathic angioedema (see section 4.4). 
Concomitant use with aliskiren-containing medicinal products in patients with diabetes mellitus 
or in patients with renal impairment (eGFR <60 ml/min/1.73 m2) (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Severe hepatic impairment, biliary cirrhosis and cholestasis (see section 4.2). 
Second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see section 4.6). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
• 
• 
• 
The combination of sacubitril/valsartan with an ACE inhibitor is contraindicated due to the 
increased risk of angioedema (see section 4.3). Sacubitril/valsartan must not be initiated until 
36 hours after taking the last dose of ACE inhibitor therapy. If treatment with 
sacubitril/valsartan is stopped, ACE inhibitor therapy must not be initiated until 36 hours after 
the last dose of sacubitril/valsartan (see sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.5). 
The combination of sacubitril/valsartan with direct renin inhibitors such as aliskiren is not 
recommended (see section 4.5). The combination of sacubitril/valsartan with aliskiren-
containing medicinal products is contraindicated in patients with diabetes mellitus or in patients 
with renal impairment (eGFR <60 ml/min/1.73 m2) (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). 
Entresto contains valsartan, and therefore should not be co-administered with another ARB 
containing medicinal product (see sections 4.2 and 4.5). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypotension 
Treatment should not be initiated unless SBP is ≥100 mmHg for adult patients or ≥5th percentile SBP 
for the age of the paediatric patient. Patients with SBP below these values were not studied (see 
section 5.1). Cases of symptomatic hypotension have been reported in adult patients treated with 
sacubitril/valsartan during clinical studies (see section 4.8), especially in patients ≥65 years old, 
patients with renal disease and patients with low SBP (<112 mmHg). When initiating therapy or 
during dose titration with sacubitril/valsartan, blood pressure should be monitored routinely. If 
hypotension occurs, temporary down-titration or discontinuation of sacubitril/valsartan is 
recommended (see section 4.2). Dose adjustment of diuretics, concomitant antihypertensives and 
treatment of other causes of hypotension (e.g. hypovolaemia) should be considered. Symptomatic 
hypotension is more likely to occur if the patient has been volume-depleted, e.g. by diuretic therapy, 
dietary salt restriction, diarrhoea or vomiting. Sodium and/or volume depletion should be corrected 
before starting treatment with sacubitril/valsartan, however, such corrective action must be carefully 
weighed against the risk of volume overload. 
Renal impairment 
Evaluation of patients with heart failure should always include assessment of renal function. Patients 
with mild and moderate renal impairment are more at risk of developing hypotension (see section 4.2). 
There is very limited clinical experience in patients with severe renal impairment (estimated GFR 
<30 ml/min/1.73m2) and these patients may be at greatest risk of hypotension (see section 4.2). There 
is no experience in patients with end-stage renal disease and use of sacubitril/valsartan is not 
recommended. 
Worsening renal function 
Use of sacubitril/valsartan may be associated with decreased renal function. The risk may be further 
increased by dehydration or concomitant use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs) (see 
section 4.5). Down-titration should be considered in patients who develop a clinically significant 
decrease in renal function. 
Hyperkalaemia 
Treatment should not be initiated if the serum potassium level is >5.4 mmol/l in adult patients and 
>5.3 mmol/l in paediatric patients. Use of sacubitril/valsartan may be associated with an increased risk 
of hyperkalaemia, although hypokalaemia may also occur (see section 4.8). Monitoring of serum 
potassium is recommended, especially in patients who have risk factors such as renal impairment, 
diabetes mellitus or hypoaldosteronism or who are on a high potassium diet or on mineralocorticoid 
antagonists (see section 4.2). If patients experience clinically significant hyperkalaemia adjustment of 
concomitant medicinal products, or temporary down–titration or discontinuation is recommended. If 
serum potassium level is >5.4 mmol/l discontinuation should be considered. 
Angioedema 
Angioedema has been reported in patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan. If angioedema occurs, 
sacubitril/valsartan should be immediately discontinued and appropriate therapy and monitoring 
should be provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms has occurred. It 
must not be re-administered. In cases of confirmed angioedema where swelling has been confined to 
the face and lips, the condition has generally resolved without treatment, although antihistamines have 
been useful in relieving symptoms. 
Angioedema associated with laryngeal oedema may be fatal. Where there is involvement of the 
tongue, glottis or larynx likely to cause airway obstruction, appropriate therapy, e.g. adrenaline 
solution 1 mg/1 ml (0.3-0.5 ml), and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway, should be 
promptly administered. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with a prior history of angioedema were not studied. As they may be at higher risk for 
angioedema, caution is recommended if sacubitril/valsartan is used in these patients. 
Sacubitril/valsartan is contraindicated in patients with a known history of angioedema related to 
previous ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy or with hereditary or idiopathic angioedema (see section 4.3). 
Black patients have an increased susceptibility to develop angioedema (see section 4.8). 
Patients with renal artery stenosis 
Sacubitril/valsartan may increase blood urea and serum creatinine levels in patients with bilateral or 
unilateral renal artery stenosis. Caution is required in patients with renal artery stenosis and 
monitoring of renal function is recommended. 
Patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional classification IV 
Caution should be exercised when initiating sacubitril/valsartan in patients with NYHA functional 
classification IV due to limited clinical experience in this population. 
B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) 
BNP is not a suitable biomarker of heart failure in patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan because it 
is a neprilysin substrate (see section 5.1). 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
There is limited clinical experience in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B 
classification) or with AST/ALT values more than twice the upper limit of the normal range. In these 
patients, exposure may be increased and safety is not established. Caution is therefore recommended 
when using it in these patients (see section 4.2 and 5.2). Sacubitril/valsartan is contraindicated in 
patients with severe hepatic impairment, biliary cirrhosis or cholestasis (Child-Pugh C classification) 
(see section 4.3). 
Psychiatric disorders 
Psychiatric events such as hallucinations, paranoia and sleep disorders, in context of psychotic events, 
have been associated with sacubitril/valsartan use. If a patient experiences such events, discontinuation 
of sacubitril/valsartan treatment should be considered. 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 97 mg/103 mg dose, that is to 
say essentially ‘sodium free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Interactions resulting in a contraindication 
ACE inhibitors 
The concomitant use of sacubitril/valsartan with ACE inhibitors is contraindicated, as the concomitant 
inhibition of neprilysin (NEP) and ACE may increase the risk of angioedema. Sacubitril/valsartan 
must not be started until 36 hours after taking the last dose of ACE inhibitor therapy. ACE inhibitor 
therapy must not be started until 36 hours after the last dose of sacubitril/valsartan (see sections 4.2 
and 4.3). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aliskiren 
The concomitant use of sacubitril/valsartan with aliskiren-containing medicinal products is 
contraindicated in patients with diabetes mellitus or in patients with renal impairment (eGFR 
<60 ml/min/1.73 m2) (see section 4.3). The combination of sacubitril/valsartan with direct renin 
inhibitors such as aliskiren is not recommended (see section 4.4). Combination of sacubitril/valsartan 
with aliskiren is potentially associated with a higher frequency of adverse reactions such as 
hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including acute renal failure) (see 
sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
Interactions resulting in concomitant use not being recommended 
Sacubitril/valsartan contains valsartan, and therefore should not be co-administered with another ARB 
containing medicinal product (see section 4.4). 
Interactions requiring precautions 
OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 substrates, e.g. statins 
In vitro data indicate that sacubitril inhibits OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 transporters. Entresto may 
therefore increase the systemic exposure of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 substrates such as statins. 
Co-administration of sacubitril/valsartan increased the Cmax of atorvastatin and its metabolites by up to 
2-fold and AUC by up to 1.3-fold. Caution should be exercised when co-administering 
sacubitril/valsartan with statins. No clinically relevant interaction was observed when simvastatin and 
Entresto were co-administered. 
PDE5 inhibitors including sildenafil 
Addition of a single dose of sildenafil to sacubitril/valsartan at steady state in patients with 
hypertension was associated with a significantly greater blood pressure reduction compared to 
administration of sacubitril/valsartan alone. Therefore, caution should be exercised when sildenafil or 
another PDE5 inhibitor is initiated in patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan. 
Potassium 
Concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics (triamterene, amiloride), mineralocorticoid 
antagonists (e.g. spironolactone, eplerenone), potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing 
potassium or other agents (such as heparin) may lead to increases in serum potassium, and to increases 
in serum creatinine. Monitoring of serum potassium is recommended if sacubitril/valsartan is 
co-administered with these agents (see section 4.4). 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) 
inhibitors 
In elderly patients, volume-depleted patients (including those on diuretic therapy), or patients with 
compromised renal function, concomitant use of sacubitril/valsartan and NSAIDs may lead to an 
increased risk of worsening of renal function. Therefore, monitoring of renal function is recommended 
when initiating or modifying treatment in patients on sacubitril/valsartan who are taking NSAIDs 
concomitantly (see section 4.4). 
Lithium 
Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during 
concomitant administration of lithium with ACE inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor antagonists 
including sacubitril/valsartan. Therefore, this combination is not recommended. If the combination 
proves necessary, careful monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended. If a diuretic is also 
used, the risk of lithium toxicity may be increased further. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Furosemide 
Co-administration of sacubitril/valsartan and furosemide had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of 
sacubitril/valsartan but reduced Cmax and AUC of furosemide by 50% and 28%, respectively. While 
there was no relevant change in urine volume, the urinary excretion of sodium was reduced within 
4 hours and 24 hours after co-administration. The average daily dose of furosemide was unchanged 
from baseline until the end of the PARADIGM-HF study in patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan. 
Nitrates, e.g. nitroglycerine 
There was no interaction between sacubitril/valsartan and intravenously administered nitroglycerin 
with regard to blood pressure reduction. Co-administration of nitroglycerin and sacubitril/valsartan 
was associated with a treatment difference of 5 bpm in heart rate compared to the administration of 
nitroglycerine alone. A similar effect on the heart rate may occur when sacubitril/valsartan is co-
administered with sublingual, oral or transdermal nitrates. In general no dose adjustment is required. 
OATP and MRP2 transporters 
The active metabolite of sacubitril (LBQ657) and valsartan are OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1 and 
OAT3 substrates; valsartan is also a MRP2 substrate. Therefore, co-administration of 
sacubitril/valsartan with inhibitors of OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT3 (e.g. rifampicin, ciclosporin), 
OAT1 (e.g. tenofovir, cidofovir) or MRP2 (e.g. ritonavir) may increase the systemic exposure of 
LBQ657 or valsartan. Appropriate care should be exercised when initiating or ending concomitant 
treatment with such medicinal products. 
Metformin 
Co-administration of sacubitril/valsartan with metformin reduced both Cmax and AUC of metformin by 
23%. The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown. Therefore, when initiating therapy with 
sacubitril/valsartan in patients receiving metformin, the clinical status of the patient should be 
evaluated. 
No significant interaction 
No clinically meaningful interaction was observed when sacubitril/valsartan was co-administered with 
digoxin, warfarin, hydrochlorothiazide, amlodipine, omeprazole, carvedilol or a combination of 
levonorgestrel/ethinyl estradiol. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
The use of sacubitril/valsartan is not recommended during the first trimester of pregnancy and is 
contraindicated during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see section 4.3). 
Valsartan 
Epidemiological evidence regarding the risk of teratogenicity following exposure to ACE inhibitors 
during the first trimester of pregnancy has not been conclusive; however, a small increase in risk 
cannot be excluded. Whilst there is no controlled epidemiological data on the risk with ARBs, similar 
risks may exist for this class of medicinal product. Unless continued ARB therapy is considered 
essential, patients planning pregnancy should be changed to alternative antihypertensive treatments 
which have an established safety profile for use in pregnancy. When pregnancy is diagnosed, 
treatment with ARBs should be stopped immediately and, if appropriate, alternative therapy should be 
started. Exposure to ARBs therapy during the second and third trimesters is known to induce human 
foetotoxicity (decreased renal function, oligohydramnios, skull ossification retardation) and neonatal 
toxicity (renal failure, hypotension, hyperkalaemia). 
Should exposure to ARBs have occurred from the second trimester of pregnancy, ultrasound check of 
renal function and skull is recommended. Infants whose mothers have taken ARBs should be closely 
observed for hypotension (see section 4.3). 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sacubitril 
There are no data from the use of sacubitril in pregnant women. Studies in animals have shown 
reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
Sacubitril/valsartan 
There are no data from the use of sacubitril/valsartan in pregnant women. Animal studies with 
sacubitril/valsartan have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether sacubitril/valsartan is excreted in human milk. The components of Entresto, 
sacubitril and valsartan, were excreted in the milk of lactating rats (see section 5.3). Because of the 
potential risk for adverse reactions in breast-fed newborns/infants, it is not recommended during 
breast-feeding. A decision should be made whether to abstain from breast-feeding or to discontinue 
Entresto while breast-feeding, taking into account the importance of sacubitril/valsartan to the mother. 
Fertility 
There are no available data on the effect of sacubitril/valsartan on human fertility. No impairment of 
fertility was demonstrated in studies with it in male and female rats (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Sacubitril/valsartan has a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. When driving 
vehicles or operating machines it should be taken into account that occasionally dizziness or fatigue 
may occur. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in adults during treatment with sacubitril/valsartan 
were hypotension (17.6%), hyperkalaemia (11.6%) and renal impairment (10.1%) (see section 4.4). 
Angioedema was reported in patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan (0.5%) (see description of 
selected adverse reactions). 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions are ranked by System organ class and then by frequency with the most frequent 
first, using the following convention: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon 
(≥1/1 000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10 000 to <1/1 000); very rare (<1/10 000). Within each frequency 
grouping, adverse reactions are ranked in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 2 
List of adverse reactions 
System organ class 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Preferred term 
Frequency category 
Anaemia 
Hypersensitivity 
Hyperkalaemia* 
Hypokalaemia 
Hypoglycaemia 
Hyponatraemia 
Hallucinations** 
Sleep disorders 
Paranoia 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Syncope 
Dizziness postural 
Vertigo 
Hypotension* 
Orthostatic hypotension 
Cough 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea 
Gastritis 
Pruritus 
Rash 
Angioedema* 
Renal impairment* 
Renal failure (renal failure, 
acute renal failure) 
Fatigue 
Asthenia 
Common 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Rare 
Very rare 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
*See description of selected adverse reactions. 
**Including auditory and visual hallucinations 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Angioedema 
Angioedema has been reported in patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan. In PARADIGM-HF, 
angioedema was reported in 0.5% of patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan, compared with 0.2% of 
patients treated with enalapril. A higher incidence of angioedema was observed in Black patients 
treated with sacubitril/valsartan (2.4%) and enalapril (0.5%) (see section 4.4). 
Hyperkalaemia and serum potassium 
In PARADIGM-HF, hyperkalaemia and serum potassium concentrations >5.4 mmol/l were reported in 
11.6% and 19.7% of sacubitril/valsartan-treated patients and 14.0% and 21.1% of enalapril-treated 
patients, respectively. 
Blood pressure 
In PARADIGM-HF, hypotension and clinically relevant low systolic blood pressure (<90 mmHg and 
decrease from baseline of >20 mmHg) were reported in 17.6% and 4.76% of sacubitril/valsartan-
treated patients compared with 11.9% and 2.67% of enalapril-treated patients, respectively. 
Renal impairment 
In PARADIGM-HF, renal impairment was reported in 10.1% of sacubitril/valsartan-treated patients 
and 11.5% of enalapril-treated patients. 
Paediatric population 
In the PANORAMA-HF study, the safety of sacubitril/valsartan was assessed in a randomised, 
active-controlled, 52-week study of 375 paediatric heart failure (HF) patients aged 1 month to 
<18 years compared to enalapril. The safety profile observed in paediatric patients aged 1 month to 
<18 years who received treatment with sacubitril/valsartan was similar to that observed in adult 
patients. Safety data in patients aged 1 month to <1 year was limited. 
Limited safety data are available in paediatric patients with moderate hepatic impairment or moderate 
to severe renal impairment. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Limited data are available with regard to overdose in humans. A single dose of 583 mg 
sacubitril/617 mg valsartan and multiple doses of 437 mg sacubitril/463 mg valsartan (14 days) were 
studied in healthy adult volunteers and were well tolerated. 
Hypotension is the most likely symptom of overdose due to the blood pressure lowering effects of 
sacubitril/valsartan. Symptomatic treatment should be provided. 
The medicinal product is unlikely to be removed by haemodialysis due to high protein binding (see 
section 5.2). 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Agents acting on the renin-angiotensin system; angiotensin II receptor 
blockers (ARBs), other combinations, ATC code: C09DX04 
Mechanism of action 
Sacubitril/valsartan exhibits the mechanism of action of an angiotensin receptor neprilysin inhibitor by 
simultaneously inhibiting neprilysin (neutral endopeptidase; NEP) via LBQ657, the active metabolite 
of the prodrug sacubitril, and by blocking the angiotensin II type-1 (AT1) receptor via valsartan. The 
complementary cardiovascular benefits of sacubitril/valsartan in heart failure patients are attributed to 
the enhancement of peptides that are degraded by neprilysin, such as natriuretic peptides (NP), by 
LBQ657 and the simultaneous inhibition of the effects of angiotensin II by valsartan. NPs exert their 
effects by activating membrane-bound guanylyl cyclase-coupled receptors, resulting in increased 
concentrations of the second messenger cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), which could result 
in vasodilation, natriuresis and diuresis, increased glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, 
inhibition of renin and aldosterone release, reduction of sympathetic activity, and anti-hypertrophic 
and anti-fibrotic effects. 
Valsartan inhibits detrimental cardiovascular and renal effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking 
the AT1 receptor, and also inhibits angiotensin II-dependent aldosterone release. This prevents 
sustained activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system that would result in vasoconstriction, 
renal sodium and fluid retention, activation of cellular growth and proliferation, and subsequent 
maladaptive cardiovascular remodelling. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
The pharmacodynamic effects of sacubitril/valsartan were evaluated after single and multiple dose 
administrations in healthy subjects and in patients with heart failure, and are consistent with 
simultaneous neprilysin inhibition and RAAS blockade. In a 7-day valsartan-controlled study in 
patients with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF), administration of sacubitril/valsartan resulted in an 
initial increase in natriuresis, increased urine cGMP, and decreased plasma levels of mid-regional 
pro-atrial natriuretic peptide (MR-proANP) and N-terminal prohormone brain natriuretic peptide 
(NT-proBNP) compared to valsartan. In a 21-day study in HFrEF patients, sacubitril/valsartan 
significantly increased urine ANP and cGMP and plasma cGMP, and decreased plasma NT-proBNP, 
aldosterone and endothelin-1 compared to baseline. The AT1-receptor was also blocked as evidenced 
by increased plasma renin activity and plasma renin concentrations. In the PARADIGM-HF study, 
sacubitril/valsartan decreased plasma NT-proBNP and increased plasma BNP and urine cGMP 
compared with enalapril. In the PANORAMA-HF study, a reduction in NT-proBNP was observed at 
weeks 4 and 12 for sacubitril/valsartan (40.2% and 49.8%) and enalapril (18.0% and 44.9%) compared 
to baseline. The NT-proBNP levels continued to decrease over the duration of the study with a 
reduction of 65.1% for sacubitril/valsartan and 61.6% for enalapril at week 52 compared to baseline. 
BNP is not a suitable biomarker of heart failure in patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan because 
BNP is a neprilysin substrate (see section 4.4). NT-proBNP is not a neprilysin substrate and is 
therefore a more suitable biomarker. 
In a thorough QTc clinical study in healthy male subjects, single doses of sacubitril/valsartan 194 mg 
sacubitril/206 mg valsartan and 583 mg sacubitril/617 mg valsartan had no effect on cardiac 
repolarisation. 
Neprilysin is one of multiple enzymes involved in the clearance of amyloid-β (Aβ) from the brain and 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Administration of sacubitril/valsartan 194 mg sacubitril/206 mg valsartan 
once daily for two weeks to healthy subjects was associated with an increase in CSF Aβ1-38 compared 
to placebo; there were no changes in concentrations of CSF Aβ1-40 and 1-42. The clinical relevance 
of this finding is not known (see section 5.3). 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The 24 mg/26 mg, 49 mg/51 mg and 97 mg/103 mg strengths are in some publications referred to as 
50, 100 or 200 mg. 
PARADIGM-HF 
PARADIGM-HF, the pivotal phase 3 study, was a multinational, randomised, double-blind study of 
8 442 patients comparing sacubitril/valsartan to enalapril, both given to adult patients with chronic 
heart failure, NYHA class II-IV and reduced ejection fraction (left ventricular ejection fraction 
[LVEF] ≤40%, amended later to ≤35%) in addition to other heart failure therapy. The primary 
endpoint was the composite of cardiovascular (CV) death or hospitalisation for heart failure (HF). 
Patients with SBP <100 mmHg, severe renal impairment (eGFR <30 ml/min/1.73 m2) and severe 
hepatic impairment were excluded at screening and therefore not prospectively studied. 
Prior to study participation, patients were well treated with standard of care therapy which included 
ACE inhibitors/ARBs (>99%), beta blockers (94%), mineralocorticoid antagonists (58%) and diuretics 
(82%). The median follow-up duration was 27 months and patients were treated for up to 4.3 years. 
Patients were required to discontinue their existing ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy and enter a 
sequential single-blind run-in period during which they received treatment with enalapril 10 mg twice 
daily, followed by single-blind treatment with sacubitril/valsartan 100 mg twice daily, increasing to 
200 mg twice daily (see section 4.8 for discontinuations during this period). They were then 
randomised to the double-blind period of the study, during which they received either 
sacubitril/valsartan 200 mg or enalapril 10 mg twice daily [sacubitril/valsartan (n=4 209); enalapril 
(n=4 233)]. 
The mean age of the population studied was 64 years of age and 19% were 75 years of age or older. At 
randomisation, 70% of patients were NYHA class II, 24% were class III and 0.7% were class IV. The 
mean LVEF was 29% and there were 963 (11.4%) patients with a baseline LVEF >35% and ≤40%. 
In the sacubitril/valsartan group, 76% of patients remained on the target dose of 200 mg twice daily at 
the end of the study (mean daily dose of 375 mg). In the enalapril group, 75% of patients remained on 
the target dose of 10 mg twice daily at the end of the study (mean daily dose of 18.9 mg). 
Sacubitril/valsartan was superior to enalapril, reducing the risk of cardiovascular death or heart failure 
hospitalisations to 21.8% compared to 26.5% for enalapril treated patients. The absolute risk 
reductions were 4.7% for the composite of the CV death or HF hospitalisation, 3.1% for CV death 
alone, and 2.8% for first HF hospitalisation alone. The relative risk reduction was 20% versus 
enalapril (see Table 3). This effect was observed early and was sustained throughout the duration of 
the study (see Figure 1). Both components contributed to the risk reduction. Sudden death accounted 
for 45% of cardiovascular deaths and was reduced by 20% in sacubitril/valsartan-treated patients 
compared to enalapril-treated patients (hazard ratio [HR] 0.80, p=0.0082). Pump failure accounted for 
26% of cardiovascular deaths and was reduced by 21% in sacubitril/valsartan-treated patients 
compared to enalapril-treated patients (HR 0.79, p=0.0338). 
This risk reduction was consistently observed across subgroups including: gender, age, race, 
geography, NYHA class (II/III), ejection fraction, renal function, history of diabetes or hypertension, 
prior heart failure therapy, and atrial fibrillation. 
Sacubitril/valsartan improved survival with a significant reduction in all-cause mortality of 2.8% 
(sacubitril/valsartan, 17%, enalapril, 19.8%). The relative risk reduction was 16% compared with 
enalapril (see Table 3). 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 
Treatment effect for the primary composite endpoint, its components and all-cause 
mortality over a median follow-up of 27 months 
Sacubitril/ 
valsartan 
N=4 187♯ 
n (%) 
914 (21.83) 
Enalapril 
N=4 212♯ 
n (%) 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI) 
Relative 
risk 
reduction 
p-value *** 
1 117 (26.52)  0.80 (0.73, 0.87)  20% 
Primary composite 
endpoint of CV death 
and heart failure 
hospitalisations* 
Individual components of the primary composite endpoint 
558 (13.33) 
CV death** 
537 (12.83) 
First heart failure 
hospitalisation 
Secondary endpoint 
All-cause mortality 
693 (16.45) 
658 (15.62) 
835 (19.82) 
711 (16.98) 
0.80 (0.71, 0.89)  20% 
0.79 (0.71, 0.89)  21% 
0.0000002 
0.00004 
0.00004 
0.0005 
*The primary endpoint was defined as the time to first event of CV death or hospitalisation for HF. 
**CV death includes all patients who died up to the cut-off date irrespective of previous 
hospitalisation. 
***One-sided p-value 
♯ Full analysis set 
0.84 (0.76, 0.93)  16% 
Figure 1  Kaplan-Meier curves for the primary composite endpoint and the CV death 
component 
TITRATION 
TITRATION was a 12-week safety and tolerability study in 538 patients with chronic heart failure 
(NYHA class II–IV) and systolic dysfunction (left ventricular ejection fraction ≤35%) naïve to ACE 
inhibitor or ARB therapy or on varying doses of ACE inhibitors or ARBs prior to study entry. Patients 
received a starting dose of sacubitril/valsartan of 50 mg twice daily and were up-titrated to 100 mg 
twice daily, then to the target dose of 200 mg twice daily, with either a 3-week or a 6-week regimen. 
More patients who were naïve to previous ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy or on low-dose therapy 
(equivalent to <10 mg enalapril/day) were able to achieve and maintain sacubitril/valsartan 200 mg 
when up-titrated over 6 weeks (84.8%) versus 3 weeks (73.6%). Overall, 76% of patients achieved and 
maintained the target dose of sacubitril/valsartan 200 mg twice daily without any dose interruption or 
down-titration over 12 weeks. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
PANORAMA-HF 
PANORAMA-HF, a phase 3 study, was a multinational, randomised, double-blind study comparing 
sacubitril/valsartan and enalapril in 375 paediatric patients aged 1 month to <18 years with heart 
failure due to systemic left ventricular systolic dysfunction (LVEF ≤45% or fractional shortening 
≤22.5%). The primary objective was to determine whether sacubitril/valsartan was superior to 
enalapril in paediatric HF patients over a 52-week treatment duration based on a global rank endpoint. 
The global rank primary endpoint was derived by ranking patients (worst-to-best outcome) based on 
clinical events such as death, initiation of mechanical life support, listing for urgent heart transplant, 
worsening HF, measures of functional capacity (NYHA/ROSS scores), and patient-reported HF 
symptoms (Patient Global Impression Scale [PGIS]). Patients with systemic right ventricles or single 
ventricles and patients with restrictive or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were excluded from the study. 
The target maintenance dose of sacubitril/valsartan was 2.3 mg/kg twice daily in paediatric patients 
aged 1 month to <1 year and 3.1 mg/kg twice daily in patients aged 1 to <18 years with a maximum 
dose of 200 mg twice daily. The target maintenance dose of enalapril was 0.15 mg/kg twice daily in 
paediatric patients aged 1 month to <1 year and 0.2 mg/kg twice daily in patients aged 1 to <18 years 
with a maximum dose of 10 mg twice daily. 
In the study, 9 patients were aged 1 month to <1 year, 61 patients were aged 1 year to <2 years, 
85 patients were aged 2 to <6 years and 220 patients were aged 6 to <18 years. At baseline, 15.7% of 
patients were NYHA/ROSS class I, 69.3% were class II, 14.4% were class III and 0.5% were class IV. 
The mean LVEF was 32%. The most common underlying causes of heart failure were cardiomyopathy 
related (63.5%). Prior to study participation, patients were treated most commonly with ACE 
inhibitors/ARBs (93%), beta-blockers (70%), aldosterone antagonists (70%), and diuretics (84%). 
The Mann-Whitney Odds of the global rank primary endpoint was 0.907 (95% CI 0.72, 1.14), 
numerically in favour of sacubitril/valsartan (see Table 4). Sacubitril/valsartan and enalapril showed 
comparable clinically relevant improvements in the secondary endpoints of NYHA/ROSS class and 
PGIS score change compared to baseline. At week 52, the NYHA/ROSS functional class changes 
from baseline were: improved in 37.7% and 34.0%; unchanged in 50.6% and 56.6%; worsened in 
11.7% and 9.4% of patients for sacubitril/valsartan and enalapril respectively. Similarly, the PGIS 
score changes from baseline were: improved in 35.5% and 34.8%; unchanged in 48.0% and 47.5%; 
worsened in 16.5% and 17.7% of patients for sacubitril/valsartan and enalapril respectively. 
NT-proBNP was substantially reduced from baseline in both treatment groups. The magnitude of 
NT-proBNP reduction with Entresto was similar to that observed in adult heart failure patients in 
PARADIGM-HF. Because sacubitril/valsartan improved outcomes and reduced NT-proBNP in 
PARADIGM-HF, the reductions in NT-proBNP coupled with the symptomatic and functional 
improvements from baseline seen in PANORAMA-HF were considered a reasonable basis to infer 
clinical benefits in paediatric heart failure patients. There were too few patients aged below 1 year to 
evaluate the efficacy of sacubitril/valsartan in this age group. 
Table 4 
Treatment effect for the primary global rank endpoint in PANORAMA-HF 
Sacubitril/valsartan 
N=187 
Probability of favourable 
outcome (%)* 
52.4 
Enalapril 
N=188 
Probability of favourable 
outcome (%)* 
47.6 
Global rank 
primary endpoint 
Treatment effect 
Odds** 
(95% CI) 
0.907 (0.72, 1.14) 
*The probability of favourable outcome or Mann-Whitney probability (MWP) for the given treatment 
was estimated based on percentage of wins in pairwise comparisons of global rank score between 
sacubitril/valsartan-treated patients versus enalapril-treated patients (each higher score counts as one 
win and each equal score counts as half a win). 
**Mann-Whitney Odds was calculated as the estimated MWP for enalapril divided by the estimated 
MWP for sacubitril/valsartan, with odds <1 in favour of sacubitril/valsartan and >1 in favour of 
enalapril. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The valsartan contained within sacubitril/valsartan is more bioavailable than the valsartan in other 
marketed tablet formulations; 26 mg, 51 mg, and 103 mg of valsartan in sacubitril/valsartan is 
equivalent to 40 mg, 80 mg and 160 mg of valsartan in other marketed tablet formulations, 
respectively. 
Adult population 
Absorption 
Following oral administration, sacubitril/valsartan dissociates into valsartan and the prodrug sacubitril. 
Sacubitril is further metabolised to the active metabolite LBQ657. These reach peak plasma 
concentrations in 2 hours, 1 hour, and 2 hours, respectively. The oral absolute bioavailability of 
sacubitril and valsartan is estimated to be more than 60% and 23%, respectively. 
Following twice daily dosing of sacubitril/valsartan, steady-state levels of sacubitril, LBQ657 and 
valsartan are reached in three days. At steady state, sacubitril and valsartan do not accumulate 
significantly, while LBQ657 accumulates 1.6-fold. Administration with food has no clinically 
significant impact on the systemic exposures of sacubitril, LBQ657 and valsartan. Sacubitril/valsartan 
can be administered with or without food. 
Distribution 
Sacubitril, LBQ657 and valsartan are highly bound to plasma proteins (94-97%). Based on the 
comparison of plasma and CSF exposures, LBQ657 crosses the blood brain barrier to a limited extent 
(0.28%). The average apparent volume of distribution of valsartan and sacubitril were 75 litres to 
103 litres, respectively. 
Biotransformation 
Sacubitril is readily converted to LBQ657 by carboxylesterases 1b and 1c; LBQ657 is not further 
metabolised to a significant extent. Valsartan is minimally metabolised, as only about 20% of the dose 
is recovered as metabolites. A hydroxyl metabolite of valsartan has been identified in plasma at low 
concentrations (<10%). 
Since CYP450-enzyme-mediated metabolism of sacubitril and valsartan is minimal, co-administration 
with medicinal products that impact CYP450 enzymes is not expected to impact the pharmacokinetics. 
In vitro metabolism studies indicate that potential for CYP450-based drug interactions is low since 
there is limited metabolism of sacubitril/valsartan via CYP450 enzymes. Sacubitril/valsartan does not 
induce or inhibit CYP450 enzymes. 
Elimination 
Following oral administration, 52-68% of sacubitril (primarily as LBQ657) and ~13% of valsartan and 
its metabolites are excreted in urine; 37-48% of sacubitril (primarily as LBQ657) and 86% of valsartan 
and its metabolites are excreted in faeces. 
Sacubitril, LBQ657 and valsartan are eliminated from plasma with a mean elimination half-life (T½) of 
approximately 1.43 hours, 11.48 hours, and 9.90 hours, respectively. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
The pharmacokinetics of sacubitril, LBQ657 and valsartan were approximately linear over a 
sacubitril/valsartan dose range of 24 mg sacubitril/26 mg valsartan to 97 mg sacubitril/103 mg 
valsartan. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Elderly 
LBQ657 and valsartan exposure are increased in subjects over 65 years of age by 42% and 30%, 
respectively, compared to younger subjects. 
Renal impairment 
A correlation was observed between renal function and systemic exposure to LBQ657 in patients with 
mild to severe renal impairment. The exposure of LBQ657 in patients with moderate 
(30 ml/min/1.73 m2 ≤ eGFR <60 ml/min/1.73 m2) and severe renal impairment (15 ml/min/1.73 m2 ≤ 
eGFR <30 ml/min/1.73 m2) was 1.4-fold and 2.2-fold higher compared to patients with mild renal 
impairment (60 ml/min/1.73 m2 ≤ eGFR <90 ml/min/1.73 m2), the largest group of patients enrolled in 
PARADIGM-HF. The exposure of valsartan was similar in patients with moderate and severe renal 
impairment compared to patients with mild renal impairment. No studies have been performed in 
patients undergoing dialysis. However, LBQ657 and valsartan are highly bound to plasma protein and 
therefore unlikely to be effectively removed by dialysis. 
Hepatic impairment 
In patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment, the exposures of sacubitril increased by 1.5- and 
3.4- fold, LBQ657 increased by 1.5- and 1.9-fold, and valsartan increased by 1.2-fold and 2.1-fold, 
respectively, compared to matching healthy subjects. However, in patients with mild to moderate 
hepatic impairment, the exposures of free concentrations of LBQ657 increased by 1.47- and 3.08-fold, 
respectively, and the exposures of free concentrations of valsartan increased by 1.09-fold and 
2.20-fold, respectively, compared to matching healthy subjects. Sacubitril/valsartan has not been 
studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment, biliary cirrhosis or cholestasis (see sections 4.3 and 
4.4). 
Effect of gender 
The pharmacokinetics of sacubitril/valsartan (sacubitril, LBQ657 and valsartan) are similar between 
male and female subjects. 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetics of sacubitril/valsartan were evaluated in paediatric heart failure patients aged 
1 month to <1 year and 1 year to <18 years and indicated that the pharmacokinetic profile of 
sacubitril/valsartan in paediatric and adult patients is similar. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data (including studies with sacubitril and valsartan components and/or 
sacubitril/valsartan) reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential and fertility. 
Fertility, reproduction and development 
Sacubitril/valsartan treatment during organogenesis resulted in increased embryofoetal lethality in rats 
at doses ≥49 mg sacubitril/51 mg valsartan/kg/day (≤0.72-fold the maximum recommended human 
dose [MRHD] on the basis of AUC) and rabbits at doses ≥4.9 mg sacubitril/5.1 mg valsartan/kg/day 
(2-fold and 0.03-fold the MRHD on the basis of valsartan and LBQ657 AUC, respectively). It is 
teratogenic based on a low incidence of foetal hydrocephaly, associated with maternally toxic doses, 
which was observed in rabbits at a sacubitril/valsartan dose of ≥4.9 mg sacubitril/5.1 mg 
valsartan/kg/day. Cardiovascular abnormalities (mainly cardiomegaly) were observed in rabbit 
foetuses at a maternally non-toxic dose (1.46 mg sacubitril/1.54 mg valsartan/kg/day). A slight 
increase in two foetal skeletal variations (misshapen sternebra, sternebra bipartite ossification) was 
observed in rabbits at a sacubitril/valsartan dose of 4.9 mg sacubitril/5.1 mg valsartan/kg/day. The 
adverse embryofoetal effects of sacubitril/valsartan are attributed to the angiotensin receptor 
antagonist activity (see section 4.6). 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sacubitril treatment during organogenesis resulted in embryo-foetal lethality and embryo-foetal 
toxicity (decreased foetal body weights and skeletal malformations) in rabbits at doses associated with 
maternal toxicity (500 mg/kg/day; 5.7-fold the MRHD on the basis of LBQ657 AUC). A slight 
generalised delay in ossification was observed at doses of >50 mg/kg/day. This finding is not 
considered adverse. No evidence of embryo-foetal toxicity or teratogenicity was observed in rats 
treated with sacubitril. The embryo-foetal no-observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) for sacubitril 
was at least 750 mg/kg/day in rats and 200 mg/kg/day in rabbits (2.2-fold the MRHD on the basis of 
LBQ657 AUC). 
Pre- and postnatal development studies in rats conducted with sacubitril at high doses up to 
750 mg/kg/day (2.2-fold the MRHD on the basis of AUC) and valsartan at doses up to 600 mg/kg/day 
(0.86-fold the MRHD on the basis of AUC) indicate that treatment with sacubitril/valsartan during 
organogenesis, gestation and lactation may affect pup development and survival. 
Other preclinical findings 
Sacubitril/valsartan 
The effects of sacubitril/valsartan on amyloid-β concentrations in CSF and brain tissue were assessed 
in young (2-4 years old) cynomolgus monkeys treated with sacubitril/valsartan (24 mg 
sacubitril/26 mg valsartan/kg/day) for two weeks. In this study CSF Aβ clearance in cynomolgus 
monkeys was reduced, increasing CSF Aβ1-40, 1-42 and 1-38 levels; there was no corresponding 
increase in Aβ levels in the brain. Increases in CSF Aβ1-40 and 1-42 were not observed in a two-week 
healthy volunteer study in humans (see section 5.1). Additionally, in a toxicology study in cynomolgus 
monkeys treated with sacubitril/valsartan at 146 mg sacubitril/154 mg valsartan/kg/day for 39 weeks, 
there was no evidence for the presence of amyloid plaques in the brain. Amyloid content was not, 
however, measured quantitatively in this study. 
Sacubitril 
In juvenile rats treated with sacubitril (postnatal days 7 to 70), there was a reduction in age-related 
bone mass development and bone elongation at approximately 2-fold the AUC exposure to the active 
metabolite of sacubitril, LBQ657, based on sacubitril/valsartan paediatric clinical dose of 3.1 mg/kg 
twice daily. The mechanism for these findings in juvenile rats, and consequently the relevance to the 
human paediatric population, is unknown. A study in adult rats showed only a minimal transient 
inhibitory effect on bone mineral density but not on any other parameters relevant for bone growth, 
suggesting no relevant effect of sacubitril on bone in adult patient populations under normal 
conditions. However, a mild transient interference of sacubitril with the early phase of fracture healing 
in adults cannot be excluded. Clinical data in paediatric patients (PANORAMA-HF study) did not 
show evidence that sacubitril/valsartan has an impact on body weight, height, head circumference and 
fracture rate. Bone density was not measured in the study. However, long-term paediatric data on 
(bone)growth and fracture rates are not available. 
Valsartan 
In juvenile rats treated with valsartan (postnatal days 7 to 70), doses as low as 1 mg/kg/day produced 
persistent irreversible kidney changes consisting of tubular nephropathy (sometimes accompanied by 
tubular epithelial necrosis) and pelvic dilatation. These kidney changes represent an expected 
exaggerated pharmacological effect of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin II 
type 1 blockers; such effects are observed if rats are treated during the first 13 days of life. This period 
coincides with 36 weeks of gestation in humans, which could occasionally extend up to 44 weeks after 
conception in humans. Functional renal maturation is an ongoing process within the first year of life in 
humans. Consequently, a clinical relevance in paediatric patients less than 1 year of age cannot be 
excluded, while preclinical data do not indicate a safety concern for paediatric patients older than 
1 year. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Low-substituted hydroxypropylcellulose 
Crospovidone, type A 
Magnesium stearate 
Talc 
Silica colloidal anhydrous 
Film coat 
Entresto 24 mg/26 mg film-coated tablets 
Hypromellose, substitution type 2910 (3 mPa·s) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Macrogol (4000) 
Talc 
Iron oxide red (E172) 
Iron oxide black (E172) 
Entresto 49 mg/51 mg film-coated tablets 
Hypromellose, substitution type 2910 (3 mPa·s) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Macrogol (4000) 
Talc 
Iron oxide red (E172) 
Iron oxide yellow (E172) 
Entresto 97 mg/103 mg film-coated tablets 
Hypromellose, substitution type 2910 (3 mPa·s) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Macrogol (4000) 
Talc 
Iron oxide red (E172) 
Iron oxide black (E172) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
PVC/PVDC blisters. 
Entresto 24 mg/26 mg film-coated tablets 
Pack sizes: 14, 20, 28, 56 or 196 film-coated tablets and multipacks containing 196 (7 packs of 
28) film-coated tablets. 
Entresto 49 mg/51 mg film-coated tablets 
Pack sizes: 14, 20, 28, 56, 168 or 196 film-coated tablets and multipacks containing 168 (3 packs of 
56) or 196 (7 packs of 28) film-coated tablets. 
Entresto 97 mg/103 mg film-coated tablets 
Pack sizes: 14, 20, 28, 56, 168 or 196 film-coated tablets and multipacks containing 168 (3 packs of 
56) or 196 (7 packs of 28) film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Entresto 24 mg/26 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/15/1058/001 
EU/1/15/1058/008-010 
EU/1/15/1058/017-018 
Entresto 49 mg/51 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/15/1058/002-004 
EU/1/15/1058/011-013 
EU/1/15/1058/019-020 
Entresto 97 mg/103 mg film-coated tablets 
EU/1/15/1058/005-007 
EU/1/15/1058/014-016 
EU/1/15/1058/021-022 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 19 November 2015 
Date of latest renewal: 25 June 2020 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entresto 6 mg/6 mg granules in capsules for opening 
Entresto 15 mg/16 mg granules in capsules for opening 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Entresto 6 mg/6 mg granules in capsules for opening 
Each capsule contains four granules equivalent to 6.1 mg sacubitril and 6.4 mg valsartan (as sacubitril 
valsartan sodium salt complex). 
Entresto 15 mg/16 mg granules in capsules for opening 
Each capsule contains ten granules equivalent to 15.18 mg sacubitril and 16.07 mg valsartan (as 
sacubitril valsartan sodium salt complex). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Granules in capsules for opening (granules in capsule) 
The granules are white to slightly yellow in colour and round, biconvex in shape and approximately 
2 mm in diameter. They are provided in a hard capsule which must be opened prior to administration. 
Entresto 6 mg/6 mg granules in capsules for opening 
The capsule consists of a white coloured cap, marked “04” in red and a transparent body, marked 
“NVR” in red. An arrow is printed on both the body and the cap. 
Entresto 15 mg/16 mg granules in capsules for opening 
The capsule consists of a yellow coloured cap, marked “10” in red and a transparent body, marked 
“NVR” in red. An arrow is printed on both the body and the cap. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Paediatric heart failure 
Entresto is indicated in children and adolescents aged one year or older for treatment of symptomatic 
chronic heart failure with left ventricular systolic dysfunction (see section 5.1). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
General considerations 
Entresto should not be co-administered with an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor or an 
angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB). Due to the potential risk of angioedema when used 
concomitantly with an ACE inhibitor, it must not be started for at least 36 hours after discontinuing 
ACE inhibitor therapy (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5). 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The valsartan contained within Entresto is more bioavailable than the valsartan in other marketed 
tablet formulations (see section 5.2). 
If a dose is missed, the patient should take the next dose at the scheduled time. 
Paediatric heart failure 
Table 1 shows the recommended dose for paediatric patients. The recommended dose should be taken 
orally twice daily. The dose should be increased every 2-4 weeks to the target dose, as tolerated by the 
patient. 
The lowest recommended dose is 6 mg/6 mg. Doses can be rounded up or down to the closest 
combination of full 6 mg/6 mg and/or 15 mg/16 mg capsules. When rounding the dose up or down 
during the up-titration phase, consideration should be given to ensuring progressive increase to the 
target dose. 
For patients weighing more than 40 kg, Entresto film-coated tablets can be used. 
Table 1 
Recommended dose titration 
Patient weight 
To be given twice daily 
Half the 
starting dose* 
0.8 mg/kg# 
Starting dose 
Intermediate 
dose 
Target dose 
1.6 mg/kg# 
2.3 mg/kg# 
0.8 mg/kg# 
Paediatric patients less than 
40 kg 
Paediatric patients at least 40 kg, 
less than 50 kg 
Paediatric patients at least 50 kg  24 mg/26 mg 
* Half the starting dose is recommended in patients who have not been taking an ACE inhibitor or an 
ARB or have been taking low doses of these medicinal products, patients who have renal impairment 
(estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR] <60 ml/min/1.73 m2) and patients who have moderate 
hepatic impairment (see special populations). 
#0.8 mg/kg, 1.6 mg/kg, 2.3 mg/kg and 3.1 mg/kg refer to the combined amount of sacubitril and 
valsartan and are to be given using granules. 
49 mg/51 mg  72 mg/78 mg 
72 mg/78 mg  97 mg/103 mg 
49 mg/51 mg 
24 mg/26 mg 
3.1 mg/kg# 
In patients not currently taking an ACE inhibitor or an ARB or taking low doses of these medicinal 
products, half of the starting dose is recommended. For paediatric patients weighing 40 kg to less than 
50 kg, a starting dose of 0.8 mg/kg twice daily (given as granules) is recommended. After initiation, 
the dose should be increased to the standard starting dose following the recommended dose titration in 
Table 1 and adjusted every 3-4 weeks. 
For example, a paediatric patient weighing 25 kg who has not previously taken an ACE inhibitor 
should start with half the standard starting dose, which corresponds to 20 mg (25 kg × 0.8 mg/kg) 
twice daily, given as granules. After rounding to the closest number of full capsules, this corresponds 
to 2 capsules of 6 mg/6 mg sacubitril/valsartan twice daily. 
Treatment should not be initiated in patients with serum potassium level >5.3 mmol/l or with systolic 
blood pressure (SBP) <5th percentile for the age of the patient. If patients experience tolerability issues 
(SBP <5th percentile for the age of the patient, symptomatic hypotension, hyperkalaemia, renal 
dysfunction), adjustment of concomitant medicinal products, temporary down-titration or 
discontinuation of Entresto is recommended (see section 4.4). 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild (eGFR 60-90 ml/min/1.73 m2) renal impairment. 
Half of the starting dose should be considered in patients with moderate renal impairment (eGFR 
30-60 ml/min/1.73 m2). As there is very limited clinical experience in patients with severe renal 
impairment (eGFR <30 ml/min/1.73 m2) (see section 5.1), Entresto should be used with caution and 
half of the starting dose is recommended. In paediatric patients weighing 40 kg to less than 50 kg, a 
starting dose of 0.8 mg/kg twice daily is recommended. After initiation, the dose should be increased 
following the recommended dose titration every 2-4 weeks. 
There is no experience in patients with end-stage renal disease and use of Entresto is not 
recommended. 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required when administering Entresto to patients with mild hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh A classification). 
There is limited clinical experience in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B 
classification) or with aspartate transaminase (AST)/alanine transaminase (ALT) values more than 
twice the upper limit of the normal range. Entresto should be used with caution in these patients and 
half of the starting dose is recommended (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). In paediatric patients weighing 
40 kg to less than 50 kg, a starting dose of 0.8 mg/kg twice daily is recommended. After initiation, the 
dose should be increased following the recommended dose titration every 2-4 weeks. 
Entresto is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment, biliary cirrhosis or cholestasis 
(Child-Pugh C classification) (see section 4.3). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Entresto in children aged below 1 year have not been established. Currently 
available data are described in section 5.1 but no recommendation on a posology can be made. 
Method of administration 
Oral use. 
Entresto granules are administered by opening the capsule and sprinkling the contents onto a small 
amount of soft food (1 to 2 teaspoons). Food containing the granules must be consumed immediately. 
Patients may receive either the 6 mg/6 mg (white cap) or 15 mg/16 mg (yellow cap) capsules or both 
to reach the required doses (see section 6.6). The capsule must not be swallowed. The empty shells 
must be discarded after use and not swallowed. 
4.3  Contraindications 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Concomitant use with ACE inhibitors (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). Entresto must not be 
administered until 36 hours after discontinuing ACE inhibitor therapy. 
Known history of angioedema related to previous ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy (see 
section 4.4). 
Hereditary or idiopathic angioedema (see section 4.4). 
Concomitant use with aliskiren-containing medicinal products in patients with diabetes mellitus 
or in patients with renal impairment (eGFR <60 ml/min/1.73 m2) (see sections 4.4 and 4.5). 
Severe hepatic impairment, biliary cirrhosis and cholestasis (see section 4.2). 
Second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see section 4.6). 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Dual blockade of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) 
• 
• 
• 
The combination of sacubitril/valsartan with an ACE inhibitor is contraindicated due to the 
increased risk of angioedema (see section 4.3). Sacubitril/valsartan must not be initiated until 
36 hours after taking the last dose of ACE inhibitor therapy. If treatment with 
sacubitril/valsartan is stopped, ACE inhibitor therapy must not be initiated until 36 hours after 
the last dose of sacubitril/valsartan (see sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.5). 
The combination of sacubitril/valsartan with direct renin inhibitors such as aliskiren is not 
recommended (see section 4.5). The combination of sacubitril/valsartan with aliskiren-
containing medicinal products is contraindicated in patients with diabetes mellitus or in patients 
with renal impairment (eGFR <60 ml/min/1.73 m2) (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). 
Entresto contains valsartan, and therefore should not be co-administered with another ARB 
containing medicinal product (see sections 4.2 and 4.5). 
Hypotension 
Treatment should not be initiated unless SBP is ≥100 mmHg for adult patients or ≥5th percentile SBP 
for the age of the paediatric patient. Patients with SBP below these values were not studied (see 
section 5.1). Cases of symptomatic hypotension have been reported in adult patients treated with 
sacubitril/valsartan during clinical studies (see section 4.8), especially in patients ≥65 years old, 
patients with renal disease and patients with low SBP (<112 mmHg). When initiating therapy or 
during dose titration with sacubitril/valsartan, blood pressure should be monitored routinely. If 
hypotension occurs, temporary down-titration or discontinuation of sacubitril/valsartan is 
recommended (see section 4.2). Dose adjustment of diuretics, concomitant antihypertensives and 
treatment of other causes of hypotension (e.g. hypovolaemia) should be considered. Symptomatic 
hypotension is more likely to occur if the patient has been volume-depleted, e.g. by diuretic therapy, 
dietary salt restriction, diarrhoea or vomiting. Sodium and/or volume depletion should be corrected 
before starting treatment with sacubitril/valsartan, however, such corrective action must be carefully 
weighed against the risk of volume overload. 
Renal impairment 
Evaluation of patients with heart failure should always include assessment of renal function. Patients 
with mild and moderate renal impairment are more at risk of developing hypotension (see section 4.2). 
There is very limited clinical experience in patients with severe renal impairment (estimated GFR 
<30 ml/min/1.73m2) and these patients may be at greatest risk of hypotension (see section 4.2). There 
is no experience in patients with end-stage renal disease and use of sacubitril/valsartan is not 
recommended. 
Worsening renal function 
Use of sacubitril/valsartan may be associated with decreased renal function. The risk may be further 
increased by dehydration or concomitant use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs) (see 
section 4.5). Down-titration should be considered in patients who develop a clinically significant 
decrease in renal function. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hyperkalaemia 
Treatment should not be initiated if the serum potassium level is >5.4 mmol/l in adult patients and 
>5.3 mmol/l in paediatric patients. Use of sacubitril/valsartan may be associated with an increased risk 
of hyperkalaemia, although hypokalaemia may also occur (see section 4.8). Monitoring of serum 
potassium is recommended, especially in patients who have risk factors such as renal impairment, 
diabetes mellitus or hypoaldosteronism or who are on a high potassium diet or on mineralocorticoid 
antagonists (see section 4.2). If patients experience clinically significant hyperkalaemia adjustment of 
concomitant medicinal products, or temporary down–titration or discontinuation is recommended. If 
serum potassium level is >5.4 mmol/l discontinuation should be considered. 
Angioedema 
Angioedema has been reported in patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan. If angioedema occurs, 
sacubitril/valsartan should be immediately discontinued and appropriate therapy and monitoring 
should be provided until complete and sustained resolution of signs and symptoms has occurred. It 
must not be re-administered. In cases of confirmed angioedema where swelling has been confined to 
the face and lips, the condition has generally resolved without treatment, although antihistamines have 
been useful in relieving symptoms. 
Angioedema associated with laryngeal oedema may be fatal. Where there is involvement of the 
tongue, glottis or larynx likely to cause airway obstruction, appropriate therapy, e.g. adrenaline 
solution 1 mg/1 ml (0.3-0.5 ml), and/or measures necessary to ensure a patent airway, should be 
promptly administered. 
Patients with a prior history of angioedema were not studied. As they may be at higher risk for 
angioedema, caution is recommended if sacubitril/valsartan is used in these patients. 
Sacubitril/valsartan is contraindicated in patients with a known history of angioedema related to 
previous ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy or with hereditary or idiopathic angioedema (see section 4.3). 
Black patients have an increased susceptibility to develop angioedema (see section 4.8). 
Patients with renal artery stenosis 
Sacubitril/valsartan may increase blood urea and serum creatinine levels in patients with bilateral or 
unilateral renal artery stenosis. Caution is required in patients with renal artery stenosis and 
monitoring of renal function is recommended. 
Patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional classification IV 
Caution should be exercised when initiating sacubitril/valsartan in patients with NYHA functional 
classification IV due to limited clinical experience in this population. 
B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) 
BNP is not a suitable biomarker of heart failure in patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan because it 
is a neprilysin substrate (see section 5.1). 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
There is limited clinical experience in patients with moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B 
classification) or with AST/ALT values more than twice the upper limit of the normal range. In these 
patients, exposure may be increased and safety is not established. Caution is therefore recommended 
when using it in these patients (see section 4.2 and 5.2). Sacubitril/valsartan is contraindicated in 
patients with severe hepatic impairment, biliary cirrhosis or cholestasis (Child-Pugh C classification) 
(see section 4.3). 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Psychiatric disorders 
Psychiatric events such as hallucinations, paranoia and sleep disorders, in context of psychotic events, 
have been associated with sacubitril/valsartan use. If a patient experiences such events, discontinuation 
of sacubitril/valsartan treatment should be considered. 
Sodium 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 97 mg/103 mg dose, that is to 
say essentially ‘sodium free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Interactions resulting in a contraindication 
ACE inhibitors 
The concomitant use of sacubitril/valsartan with ACE inhibitors is contraindicated, as the concomitant 
inhibition of neprilysin (NEP) and ACE may increase the risk of angioedema. Sacubitril/valsartan 
must not be started until 36 hours after taking the last dose of ACE inhibitor therapy. ACE inhibitor 
therapy must not be started until 36 hours after the last dose of sacubitril/valsartan (see sections 4.2 
and 4.3). 
Aliskiren 
The concomitant use of sacubitril/valsartan with aliskiren-containing medicinal products is 
contraindicated in patients with diabetes mellitus or in patients with renal impairment (eGFR 
<60 ml/min/1.73 m2) (see section 4.3). The combination of sacubitril/valsartan with direct renin 
inhibitors such as aliskiren is not recommended (see section 4.4). Combination of sacubitril/valsartan 
with aliskiren is potentially associated with a higher frequency of adverse reactions such as 
hypotension, hyperkalaemia and decreased renal function (including acute renal failure) (see 
sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
Interactions resulting in concomitant use not being recommended 
Sacubitril/valsartan contains valsartan, and therefore should not be co-administered with another ARB 
containing medicinal product (see section 4.4). 
Interactions requiring precautions 
OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 substrates, e.g. statins 
In vitro data indicate that sacubitril inhibits OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 transporters. Entresto may 
therefore increase the systemic exposure of OATP1B1 and OATP1B3 substrates such as statins. 
Co-administration of sacubitril/valsartan increased the Cmax of atorvastatin and its metabolites by up to 
2-fold and AUC by up to 1.3-fold. Caution should be exercised when co-administering 
sacubitril/valsartan with statins. No clinically relevant interaction was observed when simvastatin and 
Entresto were co-administered. 
PDE5 inhibitors including sildenafil 
Addition of a single dose of sildenafil to sacubitril/valsartan at steady state in patients with 
hypertension was associated with a significantly greater blood pressure reduction compared to 
administration of sacubitril/valsartan alone. Therefore, caution should be exercised when sildenafil or 
another PDE5 inhibitor is initiated in patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Potassium 
Concomitant use of potassium-sparing diuretics (triamterene, amiloride), mineralocorticoid 
antagonists (e.g. spironolactone, eplerenone), potassium supplements, salt substitutes containing 
potassium or other agents (such as heparin) may lead to increases in serum potassium, and to increases 
in serum creatinine. Monitoring of serum potassium is recommended if sacubitril/valsartan is 
co-administered with these agents (see section 4.4). 
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents (NSAIDs), including selective cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) 
inhibitors 
In elderly patients, volume-depleted patients (including those on diuretic therapy), or patients with 
compromised renal function, concomitant use of sacubitril/valsartan and NSAIDs may lead to an 
increased risk of worsening of renal function. Therefore, monitoring of renal function is recommended 
when initiating or modifying treatment in patients on sacubitril/valsartan who are taking NSAIDs 
concomitantly (see section 4.4). 
Lithium 
Reversible increases in serum lithium concentrations and toxicity have been reported during 
concomitant administration of lithium with ACE inhibitors or angiotensin II receptor antagonists 
including sacubitril/valsartan. Therefore, this combination is not recommended. If the combination 
proves necessary, careful monitoring of serum lithium levels is recommended. If a diuretic is also 
used, the risk of lithium toxicity may be increased further. 
Furosemide 
Co-administration of sacubitril/valsartan and furosemide had no effect on the pharmacokinetics of 
sacubitril/valsartan but reduced Cmax and AUC of furosemide by 50% and 28%, respectively. While 
there was no relevant change in urine volume, the urinary excretion of sodium was reduced within 
4 hours and 24 hours after co-administration. The average daily dose of furosemide was unchanged 
from baseline until the end of the PARADIGM-HF study in patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan. 
Nitrates, e.g. nitroglycerine 
There was no interaction between sacubitril/valsartan and intravenously administered nitroglycerin 
with regard to blood pressure reduction. Co-administration of nitroglycerin and sacubitril/valsartan 
was associated with a treatment difference of 5 bpm in heart rate compared to the administration of 
nitroglycerine alone. A similar effect on the heart rate may occur when sacubitril/valsartan is co-
administered with sublingual, oral or transdermal nitrates. In general no dose adjustment is required. 
OATP and MRP2 transporters 
The active metabolite of sacubitril (LBQ657) and valsartan are OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1 and 
OAT3 substrates; valsartan is also a MRP2 substrate. Therefore, co-administration of 
sacubitril/valsartan with inhibitors of OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT3 (e.g. rifampicin, ciclosporin), 
OAT1 (e.g. tenofovir, cidofovir) or MRP2 (e.g. ritonavir) may increase the systemic exposure of 
LBQ657 or valsartan. Appropriate care should be exercised when initiating or ending concomitant 
treatment with such medicinal products. 
Metformin 
Co-administration of sacubitril/valsartan with metformin reduced both Cmax and AUC of metformin by 
23%. The clinical relevance of these findings is unknown. Therefore, when initiating therapy with 
sacubitril/valsartan in patients receiving metformin, the clinical status of the patient should be 
evaluated. 
No significant interaction 
No clinically meaningful interaction was observed when sacubitril/valsartan was co-administered with 
digoxin, warfarin, hydrochlorothiazide, amlodipine, omeprazole, carvedilol or a combination of 
levonorgestrel/ethinyl estradiol. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
The use of sacubitril/valsartan is not recommended during the first trimester of pregnancy and is 
contraindicated during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy (see section 4.3). 
Valsartan 
Epidemiological evidence regarding the risk of teratogenicity following exposure to ACE inhibitors 
during the first trimester of pregnancy has not been conclusive; however, a small increase in risk 
cannot be excluded. Whilst there is no controlled epidemiological data on the risk with ARBs, similar 
risks may exist for this class of medicinal product. Unless continued ARB therapy is considered 
essential, patients planning pregnancy should be changed to alternative antihypertensive treatments 
which have an established safety profile for use in pregnancy. When pregnancy is diagnosed, 
treatment with ARBs should be stopped immediately and, if appropriate, alternative therapy should be 
started. Exposure to ARBs therapy during the second and third trimesters is known to induce human 
foetotoxicity (decreased renal function, oligohydramnios, skull ossification retardation) and neonatal 
toxicity (renal failure, hypotension, hyperkalaemia). 
Should exposure to ARBs have occurred from the second trimester of pregnancy, ultrasound check of 
renal function and skull is recommended. Infants whose mothers have taken ARBs should be closely 
observed for hypotension (see section 4.3). 
Sacubitril 
There are no data from the use of sacubitril in pregnant women. Studies in animals have shown 
reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
Sacubitril/valsartan 
There are no data from the use of sacubitril/valsartan in pregnant women. Animal studies with 
sacubitril/valsartan have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether sacubitril/valsartan is excreted in human milk. The components of Entresto, 
sacubitril and valsartan, were excreted in the milk of lactating rats (see section 5.3). Because of the 
potential risk for adverse reactions in breast-fed newborns/infants, it is not recommended during 
breast-feeding. A decision should be made whether to abstain from breast-feeding or to discontinue 
Entresto while breast-feeding, taking into account the importance of sacubitril/valsartan to the mother. 
Fertility 
There are no available data on the effect of sacubitril/valsartan on human fertility. No impairment of 
fertility was demonstrated in studies with it in male and female rats (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Sacubitril/valsartan has a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. When driving 
vehicles or operating machines it should be taken into account that occasionally dizziness or fatigue 
may occur. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in adults during treatment with sacubitril/valsartan 
were hypotension (17.6%), hyperkalaemia (11.6%) and renal impairment (10.1%) (see section 4.4). 
Angioedema was reported in patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan (0.5%) (see description of 
selected adverse reactions). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions are ranked by System organ class and then by frequency with the most frequent 
first, using the following convention: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon 
(≥1/1 000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10 000 to <1/1 000); very rare (<1/10 000). Within each frequency 
grouping, adverse reactions are ranked in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 2 
List of adverse reactions 
System organ class 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Preferred term 
Frequency category 
Anaemia 
Hypersensitivity 
Hyperkalaemia* 
Hypokalaemia 
Hypoglycaemia 
Hyponatraemia 
Hallucinations** 
Sleep disorders 
Paranoia 
Dizziness 
Headache 
Syncope 
Dizziness postural 
Vertigo 
Hypotension* 
Orthostatic hypotension 
Cough 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea 
Gastritis 
Pruritus 
Rash 
Angioedema* 
Renal impairment* 
Renal failure (renal failure, 
acute renal failure) 
Fatigue 
Asthenia 
Common 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Rare 
Very rare 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
*See description of selected adverse reactions. 
**Including auditory and visual hallucinations 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Angioedema 
Angioedema has been reported in patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan. In PARADIGM-HF, 
angioedema was reported in 0.5% of patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan, compared with 0.2% of 
patients treated with enalapril. A higher incidence of angioedema was observed in Black patients 
treated with sacubitril/valsartan (2.4%) and enalapril (0.5%) (see section 4.4). 
Hyperkalaemia and serum potassium 
In PARADIGM-HF, hyperkalaemia and serum potassium concentrations >5.4 mmol/l were reported in 
11.6% and 19.7% of sacubitril/valsartan-treated patients and 14.0% and 21.1% of enalapril-treated 
patients, respectively. 
Blood pressure 
In PARADIGM-HF, hypotension and clinically relevant low systolic blood pressure (<90 mmHg and 
decrease from baseline of >20 mmHg) were reported in 17.6% and 4.76% of sacubitril/valsartan-
treated patients compared with 11.9% and 2.67% of enalapril-treated patients, respectively. 
Renal impairment 
In PARADIGM-HF, renal impairment was reported in 10.1% of sacubitril/valsartan-treated patients 
and 11.5% of enalapril-treated patients. 
Paediatric population 
In the PANORAMA-HF study, the safety of sacubitril/valsartan was assessed in a randomised, 
active-controlled, 52-week study of 375 paediatric heart failure (HF) patients aged 1 month to 
<18 years compared to enalapril. The safety profile observed in paediatric patients aged 1 month to 
<18 years who received treatment with sacubitril/valsartan was similar to that observed in adult 
patients. Safety data in patients aged 1 month to <1 year was limited. 
Limited safety data are available in paediatric patients with moderate hepatic impairment or moderate 
to severe renal impairment. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Limited data are available with regard to overdose in humans. A single dose of 583 mg 
sacubitril/617 mg valsartan and multiple doses of 437 mg sacubitril/463 mg valsartan (14 days) were 
studied in healthy adult volunteers and were well tolerated. 
Hypotension is the most likely symptom of overdose due to the blood pressure lowering effects of 
sacubitril/valsartan. Symptomatic treatment should be provided. 
The medicinal product is unlikely to be removed by haemodialysis due to high protein binding (see 
section 5.2). 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Agents acting on the renin-angiotensin system; angiotensin II receptor 
blockers (ARBs), other combinations, ATC code: C09DX04 
Mechanism of action 
Sacubitril/valsartan exhibits the mechanism of action of an angiotensin receptor neprilysin inhibitor by 
simultaneously inhibiting neprilysin (neutral endopeptidase; NEP) via LBQ657, the active metabolite 
of the prodrug sacubitril, and by blocking the angiotensin II type-1 (AT1) receptor via valsartan. The 
complementary cardiovascular benefits of sacubitril/valsartan in heart failure patients are attributed to 
the enhancement of peptides that are degraded by neprilysin, such as natriuretic peptides (NP), by 
LBQ657 and the simultaneous inhibition of the effects of angiotensin II by valsartan. NPs exert their 
effects by activating membrane-bound guanylyl cyclase-coupled receptors, resulting in increased 
concentrations of the second messenger cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), which could result 
in vasodilation, natriuresis and diuresis, increased glomerular filtration rate and renal blood flow, 
inhibition of renin and aldosterone release, reduction of sympathetic activity, and anti-hypertrophic 
and anti-fibrotic effects. 
Valsartan inhibits detrimental cardiovascular and renal effects of angiotensin II by selectively blocking 
the AT1 receptor, and also inhibits angiotensin II-dependent aldosterone release. This prevents 
sustained activation of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system that would result in vasoconstriction, 
renal sodium and fluid retention, activation of cellular growth and proliferation, and subsequent 
maladaptive cardiovascular remodelling. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
The pharmacodynamic effects of sacubitril/valsartan were evaluated after single and multiple dose 
administrations in healthy subjects and in patients with heart failure, and are consistent with 
simultaneous neprilysin inhibition and RAAS blockade. In a 7-day valsartan-controlled study in 
patients with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF), administration of sacubitril/valsartan resulted in an 
initial increase in natriuresis, increased urine cGMP, and decreased plasma levels of mid-regional 
pro-atrial natriuretic peptide (MR-proANP) and N-terminal prohormone brain natriuretic peptide 
(NT-proBNP) compared to valsartan. In a 21-day study in HFrEF patients, sacubitril/valsartan 
significantly increased urine ANP and cGMP and plasma cGMP, and decreased plasma NT-proBNP, 
aldosterone and endothelin-1 compared to baseline. The AT1-receptor was also blocked as evidenced 
by increased plasma renin activity and plasma renin concentrations. In the PARADIGM-HF study, 
sacubitril/valsartan decreased plasma NT-proBNP and increased plasma BNP and urine cGMP 
compared with enalapril. In the PANORAMA-HF study, a reduction in NT-proBNP was observed at 
weeks 4 and 12 for sacubitril/valsartan (40.2% and 49.8%) and enalapril (18.0% and 44.9%) compared 
to baseline. The NT-proBNP levels continued to decrease over the duration of the study with a 
reduction of 65.1% for sacubitril/valsartan and 61.6% for enalapril at week 52 compared to baseline. 
BNP is not a suitable biomarker of heart failure in patients treated with sacubitril/valsartan because 
BNP is a neprilysin substrate (see section 4.4). NT-proBNP is not a neprilysin substrate and is 
therefore a more suitable biomarker. 
In a thorough QTc clinical study in healthy male subjects, single doses of sacubitril/valsartan 194 mg 
sacubitril/206 mg valsartan and 583 mg sacubitril/617 mg valsartan had no effect on cardiac 
repolarisation. 
Neprilysin is one of multiple enzymes involved in the clearance of amyloid-β (Aβ) from the brain and 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Administration of sacubitril/valsartan 194 mg sacubitril/206 mg valsartan 
once daily for two weeks to healthy subjects was associated with an increase in CSF Aβ1-38 compared 
to placebo; there were no changes in concentrations of CSF Aβ1-40 and 1-42. The clinical relevance 
of this finding is not known (see section 5.3). 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The 24 mg/26 mg, 49 mg/51 mg and 97 mg/103 mg strengths are in some publications referred to as 
50, 100 or 200 mg. 
PARADIGM-HF 
PARADIGM-HF, the pivotal phase 3 study, was a multinational, randomised, double-blind study of 
8 442 patients comparing sacubitril/valsartan to enalapril, both given to adult patients with chronic 
heart failure, NYHA class II-IV and reduced ejection fraction (left ventricular ejection fraction 
[LVEF] ≤40%, amended later to ≤35%) in addition to other heart failure therapy. The primary 
endpoint was the composite of cardiovascular (CV) death or hospitalisation for heart failure (HF). 
Patients with SBP <100 mmHg, severe renal impairment (eGFR <30 ml/min/1.73 m2) and severe 
hepatic impairment were excluded at screening and therefore not prospectively studied. 
Prior to study participation, patients were well treated with standard of care therapy which included 
ACE inhibitors/ARBs (>99%), beta blockers (94%), mineralocorticoid antagonists (58%) and diuretics 
(82%). The median follow-up duration was 27 months and patients were treated for up to 4.3 years. 
Patients were required to discontinue their existing ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy and enter a 
sequential single-blind run-in period during which they received treatment with enalapril 10 mg twice 
daily, followed by single-blind treatment with sacubitril/valsartan 100 mg twice daily, increasing to 
200 mg twice daily (see section 4.8 for discontinuations during this period). They were then 
randomised to the double-blind period of the study, during which they received either 
sacubitril/valsartan 200 mg or enalapril 10 mg twice daily [sacubitril/valsartan (n=4 209); enalapril 
(n=4 233)]. 
The mean age of the population studied was 64 years of age and 19% were 75 years of age or older. At 
randomisation, 70% of patients were NYHA class II, 24% were class III and 0.7% were class IV. The 
mean LVEF was 29% and there were 963 (11.4%) patients with a baseline LVEF >35% and ≤40%. 
In the sacubitril/valsartan group, 76% of patients remained on the target dose of 200 mg twice daily at 
the end of the study (mean daily dose of 375 mg). In the enalapril group, 75% of patients remained on 
the target dose of 10 mg twice daily at the end of the study (mean daily dose of 18.9 mg). 
Sacubitril/valsartan was superior to enalapril, reducing the risk of cardiovascular death or heart failure 
hospitalisations to 21.8% compared to 26.5% for enalapril treated patients. The absolute risk 
reductions were 4.7% for the composite of the CV death or HF hospitalisation, 3.1% for CV death 
alone, and 2.8% for first HF hospitalisation alone. The relative risk reduction was 20% versus 
enalapril (see Table 3). This effect was observed early and was sustained throughout the duration of 
the study (see Figure 1). Both components contributed to the risk reduction. Sudden death accounted 
for 45% of cardiovascular deaths and was reduced by 20% in sacubitril/valsartan-treated patients 
compared to enalapril-treated patients (hazard ratio [HR] 0.80, p=0.0082). Pump failure accounted for 
26% of cardiovascular deaths and was reduced by 21% in sacubitril/valsartan-treated patients 
compared to enalapril-treated patients (HR 0.79, p=0.0338). 
This risk reduction was consistently observed across subgroups including: gender, age, race, 
geography, NYHA class (II/III), ejection fraction, renal function, history of diabetes or hypertension, 
prior heart failure therapy, and atrial fibrillation. 
Sacubitril/valsartan improved survival with a significant reduction in all-cause mortality of 2.8% 
(sacubitril/valsartan, 17%, enalapril, 19.8%). The relative risk reduction was 16% compared with 
enalapril (see Table 3). 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 
Treatment effect for the primary composite endpoint, its components and all-cause 
mortality over a median follow-up of 27 months 
Sacubitril/ 
valsartan 
N=4 187♯ 
n (%) 
914 (21.83) 
Enalapril 
N=4 212♯ 
n (%) 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI) 
Relative 
risk 
reduction 
p-value *** 
1 117 (26.52)  0.80 (0.73, 0.87)  20% 
Primary composite 
endpoint of CV death 
and heart failure 
hospitalisations* 
Individual components of the primary composite endpoint 
558 (13.33) 
CV death** 
537 (12.83) 
First heart failure 
hospitalisation 
Secondary endpoint 
All-cause mortality 
693 (16.45) 
658 (15.62) 
711 (16.98) 
0.80 (0.71, 0.89)  20% 
0.79 (0.71, 0.89)  21% 
0.0000002 
0.00004 
0.00004 
835 (19.82) 
0.0005 
*The primary endpoint was defined as the time to first event of CV death or hospitalisation for HF. 
**CV death includes all patients who died up to the cut-off date irrespective of previous 
hospitalisation. 
***One-sided p-value 
♯ Full analysis set 
0.84 (0.76, 0.93)  16% 
Figure 1  Kaplan-Meier curves for the primary composite endpoint and the CV death 
component 
TITRATION 
TITRATION was a 12-week safety and tolerability study in 538 patients with chronic heart failure 
(NYHA class II–IV) and systolic dysfunction (left ventricular ejection fraction ≤35%) naïve to ACE 
inhibitor or ARB therapy or on varying doses of ACE inhibitors or ARBs prior to study entry. Patients 
received a starting dose of sacubitril/valsartan of 50 mg twice daily and were up-titrated to 100 mg 
twice daily, then to the target dose of 200 mg twice daily, with either a 3-week or a 6-week regimen. 
More patients who were naïve to previous ACE inhibitor or ARB therapy or on low-dose therapy 
(equivalent to <10 mg enalapril/day) were able to achieve and maintain sacubitril/valsartan 200 mg 
when up-titrated over 6 weeks (84.8%) versus 3 weeks (73.6%). Overall, 76% of patients achieved and 
maintained the target dose of sacubitril/valsartan 200 mg twice daily without any dose interruption or 
down-titration over 12 weeks. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
PANORAMA-HF 
PANORAMA-HF, a phase 3 study, was a multinational, randomised, double-blind study comparing 
sacubitril/valsartan and enalapril in 375 paediatric patients aged 1 month to <18 years with heart 
failure due to systemic left ventricular systolic dysfunction (LVEF ≤45% or fractional shortening 
≤22.5%). The primary objective was to determine whether sacubitril/valsartan was superior to 
enalapril in paediatric HF patients over a 52-week treatment duration based on a global rank endpoint. 
The global rank primary endpoint was derived by ranking patients (worst-to-best outcome) based on 
clinical events such as death, initiation of mechanical life support, listing for urgent heart transplant, 
worsening HF, measures of functional capacity (NYHA/ROSS scores), and patient-reported HF 
symptoms (Patient Global Impression Scale [PGIS]). Patients with systemic right ventricles or single 
ventricles and patients with restrictive or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were excluded from the study. 
The target maintenance dose of sacubitril/valsartan was 2.3 mg/kg twice daily in paediatric patients 
aged 1 month to <1 year and 3.1 mg/kg twice daily in patients aged 1 to <18 years with a maximum 
dose of 200 mg twice daily. The target maintenance dose of enalapril was 0.15 mg/kg twice daily in 
paediatric patients aged 1 month to <1 year and 0.2 mg/kg twice daily in patients aged 1 to <18 years 
with a maximum dose of 10 mg twice daily. 
In the study, 9 patients were aged 1 month to <1 year, 61 patients were aged 1 year to <2 years, 
85 patients were aged 2 to <6 years and 220 patients were aged 6 to <18 years. At baseline, 15.7% of 
patients were NYHA/ROSS class I, 69.3% were class II, 14.4% were class III and 0.5% were class IV. 
The mean LVEF was 32%. The most common underlying causes of heart failure were cardiomyopathy 
related (63.5%). Prior to study participation, patients were treated most commonly with ACE 
inhibitors/ARBs (93%), beta-blockers (70%), aldosterone antagonists (70%), and diuretics (84%). 
The Mann-Whitney Odds of the global rank primary endpoint was 0.907 (95% CI 0.72, 1.14), 
numerically in favour of sacubitril/valsartan (see Table 4). Sacubitril/valsartan and enalapril showed 
comparable clinically relevant improvements in the secondary endpoints of NYHA/ROSS class and 
PGIS score change compared to baseline. At week 52, the NYHA/ROSS functional class changes 
from baseline were: improved in 37.7% and 34.0%; unchanged in 50.6% and 56.6%; worsened in 
11.7% and 9.4% of patients for sacubitril/valsartan and enalapril respectively. Similarly, the PGIS 
score changes from baseline were: improved in 35.5% and 34.8%; unchanged in 48.0% and 47.5%; 
worsened in 16.5% and 17.7% of patients for sacubitril/valsartan and enalapril respectively. 
NT-proBNP was substantially reduced from baseline in both treatment groups. The magnitude of 
NT-proBNP reduction with Entresto was similar to that observed in adult heart failure patients in 
PARADIGM-HF. Because sacubitril/valsartan improved outcomes and reduced NT-proBNP in 
PARADIGM-HF, the reductions in NT-proBNP coupled with the symptomatic and functional 
improvements from baseline seen in PANORAMA-HF were considered a reasonable basis to infer 
clinical benefits in paediatric heart failure patients. There were too few patients aged below 1 year to 
evaluate the efficacy of sacubitril/valsartan in this age group. 
Table 4 
Treatment effect for the primary global rank endpoint in PANORAMA-HF 
Sacubitril/valsartan 
N=187 
Probability of favourable 
outcome (%)* 
52.4 
Enalapril 
N=188 
Probability of favourable 
outcome (%)* 
47.6 
Global rank 
primary endpoint 
Treatment effect 
Odds** 
(95% CI) 
0.907 (0.72, 1.14) 
*The probability of favourable outcome or Mann-Whitney probability (MWP) for the given treatment 
was estimated based on percentage of wins in pairwise comparisons of global rank score between 
sacubitril/valsartan-treated patients versus enalapril-treated patients (each higher score counts as one 
win and each equal score counts as half a win). 
**Mann-Whitney Odds was calculated as the estimated MWP for enalapril divided by the estimated 
MWP for sacubitril/valsartan, with odds <1 in favour of sacubitril/valsartan and >1 in favour of 
enalapril. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The valsartan contained within sacubitril/valsartan is more bioavailable than the valsartan in other 
marketed tablet formulations; 26 mg, 51 mg, and 103 mg of valsartan in sacubitril/valsartan is 
equivalent to 40 mg, 80 mg and 160 mg of valsartan in other marketed tablet formulations, 
respectively. 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetics of sacubitril/valsartan were evaluated in paediatric heart failure patients aged 
1 month to <1 year and 1 year to <18 years and indicated that the pharmacokinetic profile of 
sacubitril/valsartan in paediatric and adult patients is similar. 
Adult population 
Absorption 
Following oral administration, sacubitril/valsartan dissociates into valsartan and the prodrug sacubitril. 
Sacubitril is further metabolised to the active metabolite LBQ657. These reach peak plasma 
concentrations in 2 hours, 1 hour, and 2 hours, respectively. The oral absolute bioavailability of 
sacubitril and valsartan is estimated to be more than 60% and 23%, respectively. 
Following twice daily dosing of sacubitril/valsartan, steady-state levels of sacubitril, LBQ657 and 
valsartan are reached in three days. At steady state, sacubitril and valsartan do not accumulate 
significantly, while LBQ657 accumulates 1.6-fold. Administration with food has no clinically 
significant impact on the systemic exposures of sacubitril, LBQ657 and valsartan. Sacubitril/valsartan 
can be administered with or without food. 
Distribution 
Sacubitril, LBQ657 and valsartan are highly bound to plasma proteins (94-97%). Based on the 
comparison of plasma and CSF exposures, LBQ657 crosses the blood brain barrier to a limited extent 
(0.28%). The average apparent volume of distribution of valsartan and sacubitril were 75 litres to 
103 litres, respectively. 
Biotransformation 
Sacubitril is readily converted to LBQ657 by carboxylesterases 1b and 1c; LBQ657 is not further 
metabolised to a significant extent. Valsartan is minimally metabolised, as only about 20% of the dose 
is recovered as metabolites. A hydroxyl metabolite of valsartan has been identified in plasma at low 
concentrations (<10%). 
Since CYP450-enzyme-mediated metabolism of sacubitril and valsartan is minimal, co-administration 
with medicinal products that impact CYP450 enzymes is not expected to impact the pharmacokinetics. 
In vitro metabolism studies indicate that potential for CYP450-based drug interactions is low since 
there is limited metabolism of sacubitril/valsartan via CYP450 enzymes. Sacubitril/valsartan does not 
induce or inhibit CYP450 enzymes. 
Elimination 
Following oral administration, 52-68% of sacubitril (primarily as LBQ657) and ~13% of valsartan and 
its metabolites are excreted in urine; 37-48% of sacubitril (primarily as LBQ657) and 86% of valsartan 
and its metabolites are excreted in faeces. 
Sacubitril, LBQ657 and valsartan are eliminated from plasma with a mean elimination half-life (T½) of 
approximately 1.43 hours, 11.48 hours, and 9.90 hours, respectively. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linearity/non-linearity 
The pharmacokinetics of sacubitril, LBQ657 and valsartan were approximately linear over a 
sacubitril/valsartan dose range of 24 mg sacubitril/26 mg valsartan to 97 mg sacubitril/103 mg 
valsartan. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
A correlation was observed between renal function and systemic exposure to LBQ657 in patients with 
mild to severe renal impairment. The exposure of LBQ657 in patients with moderate 
(30 ml/min/1.73 m2 ≤ eGFR <60 ml/min/1.73 m2) and severe renal impairment (15 ml/min/1.73 m2 ≤ 
eGFR <30 ml/min/1.73 m2) was 1.4-fold and 2.2-fold higher compared to patients with mild renal 
impairment (60 ml/min/1.73 m2 ≤ eGFR <90 ml/min/1.73 m2), the largest group of patients enrolled in 
PARADIGM-HF. The exposure of valsartan was similar in patients with moderate and severe renal 
impairment compared to patients with mild renal impairment. No studies have been performed in 
patients undergoing dialysis. However, LBQ657 and valsartan are highly bound to plasma protein and 
therefore unlikely to be effectively removed by dialysis. 
Hepatic impairment 
In patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment, the exposures of sacubitril increased by 1.5- and 
3.4- fold, LBQ657 increased by 1.5- and 1.9-fold, and valsartan increased by 1.2-fold and 2.1-fold, 
respectively, compared to matching healthy subjects. However, in patients with mild to moderate 
hepatic impairment, the exposures of free concentrations of LBQ657 increased by 1.47- and 3.08-fold, 
respectively, and the exposures of free concentrations of valsartan increased by 1.09-fold and 
2.20-fold, respectively, compared to matching healthy subjects. Sacubitril/valsartan has not been 
studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment, biliary cirrhosis or cholestasis (see sections 4.3 and 
4.4). 
Effect of gender 
The pharmacokinetics of sacubitril/valsartan (sacubitril, LBQ657 and valsartan) are similar between 
male and female subjects. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data (including studies with sacubitril and valsartan components and/or 
sacubitril/valsartan) reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential and fertility. 
Fertility, reproduction and development 
Sacubitril/valsartan treatment during organogenesis resulted in increased embryofoetal lethality in rats 
at doses ≥49 mg sacubitril/51 mg valsartan/kg/day (≤0.72-fold the maximum recommended human 
dose [MRHD] on the basis of AUC) and rabbits at doses ≥4.9 mg sacubitril/5.1 mg valsartan/kg/day 
(2-fold and 0.03-fold the MRHD on the basis of valsartan and LBQ657 AUC, respectively). It is 
teratogenic based on a low incidence of foetal hydrocephaly, associated with maternally toxic doses, 
which was observed in rabbits at a sacubitril/valsartan dose of ≥4.9 mg sacubitril/5.1 mg 
valsartan/kg/day. Cardiovascular abnormalities (mainly cardiomegaly) were observed in rabbit 
foetuses at a maternally non-toxic dose (1.46 mg sacubitril/1.54 mg valsartan/kg/day). A slight 
increase in two foetal skeletal variations (misshapen sternebra, sternebra bipartite ossification) was 
observed in rabbits at a sacubitril/valsartan dose of 4.9 mg sacubitril/5.1 mg valsartan/kg/day. The 
adverse embryofoetal effects of sacubitril/valsartan are attributed to the angiotensin receptor 
antagonist activity (see section 4.6). 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sacubitril treatment during organogenesis resulted in embryo-foetal lethality and embryo-foetal 
toxicity (decreased foetal body weights and skeletal malformations) in rabbits at doses associated with 
maternal toxicity (500 mg/kg/day; 5.7-fold the MRHD on the basis of LBQ657 AUC). A slight 
generalised delay in ossification was observed at doses of >50 mg/kg/day. This finding is not 
considered adverse. No evidence of embryo-foetal toxicity or teratogenicity was observed in rats 
treated with sacubitril. The embryo-foetal no-observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) for sacubitril 
was at least 750 mg/kg/day in rats and 200 mg/kg/day in rabbits (2.2-fold the MRHD on the basis of 
LBQ657 AUC). 
Pre- and postnatal development studies in rats conducted with sacubitril at high doses up to 
750 mg/kg/day (2.2-fold the MRHD on the basis of AUC) and valsartan at doses up to 600 mg/kg/day 
(0.86-fold the MRHD on the basis of AUC) indicate that treatment with sacubitril/valsartan during 
organogenesis, gestation and lactation may affect pup development and survival. 
Other preclinical findings 
Sacubitril/valsartan 
The effects of sacubitril/valsartan on amyloid-β concentrations in CSF and brain tissue were assessed 
in young (2-4 years old) cynomolgus monkeys treated with sacubitril/valsartan (24 mg 
sacubitril/26 mg valsartan/kg/day) for two weeks. In this study CSF Aβ clearance in cynomolgus 
monkeys was reduced, increasing CSF Aβ1-40, 1-42 and 1-38 levels; there was no corresponding 
increase in Aβ levels in the brain. Increases in CSF Aβ1-40 and 1-42 were not observed in a two-week 
healthy volunteer study in humans (see section 5.1). Additionally, in a toxicology study in cynomolgus 
monkeys treated with sacubitril/valsartan at 146 mg sacubitril/154 mg valsartan/kg/day for 39 weeks, 
there was no evidence for the presence of amyloid plaques in the brain. Amyloid content was not, 
however, measured quantitatively in this study. 
Sacubitril 
In juvenile rats treated with sacubitril (postnatal days 7 to 70), there was a reduction in age-related 
bone mass development and bone elongation at approximately 2-fold the AUC exposure to the active 
metabolite of sacubitril, LBQ657, based on sacubitril/valsartan paediatric clinical dose of 3.1 mg/kg 
twice daily. The mechanism for these findings in juvenile rats, and consequently the relevance to the 
human paediatric population, unknown. A study in adult rats showed only a minimal transient 
inhibitory effect on bone mineral density but not on any other parameters relevant for bone growth, 
suggesting no relevant effect of sacubitril on bone in adult patient populations under normal 
conditions. However, a mild transient interference of sacubitril with the early phase of fracture healing 
in adults cannot be excluded. Clinical data in paediatric patients (PANORAMA-HF study) did not 
show evidence that sacubitril/valsartan has an impact on body weight, height, head circumference and 
fracture rate. Bone density was not measured in the study. However, long-term paediatric data on 
(bone)growth and fracture rates are not available. 
Valsartan 
In juvenile rats treated with valsartan (postnatal days 7 to 70), doses as low as 1 mg/kg/day produced 
persistent irreversible kidney changes consisting of tubular nephropathy (sometimes accompanied by 
tubular epithelial necrosis) and pelvic dilatation. These kidney changes represent an expected 
exaggerated pharmacological effect of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin II 
type 1 blockers; such effects are observed if rats are treated during the first 13 days of life. This period 
coincides with 36 weeks of gestation in humans, which could occasionally extend up to 44 weeks after 
conception in humans. Functional renal maturation is an ongoing process within the first year of life in 
humans. Consequently, a clinical relevance in paediatric patients less than 1 year of age cannot be 
excluded, while preclinical data do not indicate a safety concern for paediatric patients older than 
1 year. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Granule core 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Hydroxypropylcellulose 
Magnesium stearate 
Silica colloidal anhydrous 
Talc 
Film coat 
Basic butylated methacrylate copolymer 
Talc 
Stearic acid 
Sodium laurilsulfate 
Capsule shell component 
Entresto 6 mg/6 mg granules in capsules for opening 
Hypromellose 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Entresto 15 mg/16 mg granules in capsules for opening 
Hypromellose 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Iron oxide, yellow (E172) 
Printing ink 
Shellac 
Propylene glycol 
Iron oxide, red (E172) 
Ammonia solution (concentrated) 
Potassium hydroxide 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
PA/Alu/PVC blisters 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Entresto 6 mg/6 mg granules in capsules for opening 
Pack size: 60 capsules 
Entresto 15 mg/16 mg granules in capsules for opening 
Pack size: 60 capsules 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
Use in the paediatric population 
Patients and caregivers must be instructed to open the capsule(s) carefully to avoid spillage or 
dispersion of the capsule contents into the air. It is recommended to hold the capsule upright with the 
coloured cap on top and to pull the cap away from the body of the capsule. 
The contents of the capsule must be sprinkled onto 1 to 2 teaspoons of soft food in a small container. 
Food containing the granules must be consumed immediately. 
The empty capsule shells must be discarded immediately. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Entresto 6 mg/6 mg granules in capsules for opening 
EU/1/15/1058/023 
Entresto 15 mg/16 mg granules in capsules for opening 
EU/1/15/1058/024 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 19 November 2015 
Date of latest renewal: 25 June 2020 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Film-coated tablets 
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing LLC 
Verovskova Ulica 57 
1000 Ljubljana 
Slovenia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A 
Via Provinciale Schito 131 
80058 Torre Annunziata (NA) 
Italy 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstrasse 25 
90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
LEK farmacevtska družba d. d., Poslovna enota PROIZVODNJA LENDAVA 
Trimlini 2D 
Lendava 9220 
Slovenia 
Granules in capsules for opening 
Lek farmacevtska družba d.d. 
Verovskova Ulica 57 
1526 Ljubljana 
Slovenia 
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing LLC 
Verovskova Ulica 57 
1000 Ljubljana 
Slovenia 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstrasse 25 
90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
Novartis Farmaceutica S.A. 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result 
of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF UNIT PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entresto 24 mg/26 mg film-coated tablets 
sacubitril/valsartan 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 24 mg/26 mg tablet contains 24.3 mg sacubitril and 25.7 mg valsartan (as sacubitril valsartan 
sodium salt complex). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
14 film-coated tablets 
20 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
196 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/15/1058/001 
EU/1/15/1058/008 
EU/1/15/1058/009 
EU/1/15/1058/010 
EU/1/15/1058/018 
28 film-coated tablets 
14 film-coated tablets 
20 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
196 film-coated tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Entresto 24 mg/26 mg film-coated tablets, abbreviated form accepted, if required for technical reasons 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entresto 24 mg/26 mg film-coated tablets 
sacubitril/valsartan 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 24 mg/26 mg tablet contains 24.3 mg sacubitril and 25.7 mg valsartan (as sacubitril valsartan 
sodium salt complex). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
Multipack: 196 (7 packs of 28) film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/15/1058/017 
196 film-coated tablets (7 packs of 28) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Entresto 24 mg/26 mg film-coated tablets, abbreviated form accepted, if required for technical reasons 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entresto 24 mg/26 mg film-coated tablets 
sacubitril/valsartan 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 24 mg/26 mg tablet contains 24.3 mg sacubitril and 25.7 mg valsartan (as sacubitril valsartan 
sodium salt complex). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
28 film-coated tablets. Component of a multipack. Not to be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/15/1058/017 
196 film-coated tablets (7 packs of 28) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Entresto 24 mg/26 mg film-coated tablets, abbreviated form accepted, if required for technical reasons 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entresto 24 mg/26 mg tablets 
sacubitril/valsartan 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF UNIT PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entresto 49 mg/51 mg film-coated tablets 
sacubitril/valsartan 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 49 mg/51 mg tablet contains 48.6 mg sacubitril and 51.4 mg valsartan (as sacubitril valsartan 
sodium salt complex). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
14 film-coated tablets 
20 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
168 film-coated tablets 
196 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/15/1058/002 
EU/1/15/1058/003 
EU/1/15/1058/011 
EU/1/15/1058/012 
EU/1/15/1058/019 
EU/1/15/1058/020 
28 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
14 film-coated tablets 
20 film-coated tablets 
168 film-coated tablets 
196 film-coated tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Entresto 49 mg/51 mg film-coated tablets, abbreviated form accepted, if required for technical reasons 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
56 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entresto 49 mg/51 mg film-coated tablets 
sacubitril/valsartan 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 49 mg/51 mg tablet contains 48.6 mg sacubitril and 51.4 mg valsartan (as sacubitril valsartan 
sodium salt complex). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
Multipack: 168 (3 packs of 56) film-coated tablets 
Multipack: 196 (7 packs of 28) film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/15/1058/004 
EU/1/15/1058/013 
168 film-coated tablets (3 packs of 56) 
196 film-coated tablets (7 packs of 28) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Entresto 49 mg/51 mg film-coated tablets, abbreviated form accepted, if required for technical reasons 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entresto 49 mg/51 mg film-coated tablets 
sacubitril/valsartan 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 49 mg/51 mg tablet contains 48.6 mg sacubitril and 51.4 mg valsartan (as sacubitril valsartan 
sodium salt complex). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
28 film-coated tablets. Component of a multipack. Not to be sold separately. 
56 film-coated tablets. Component of a multipack. Not to be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/15/1058/004 
EU/1/15/1058/013 
168 film-coated tablets (3 packs of 56) 
196 film-coated tablets (7 packs of 28) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Entresto 49 mg/51 mg film-coated tablets, abbreviated form accepted, if required for technical reasons 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entresto 49 mg/51 mg tablets 
sacubitril/valsartan 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF UNIT PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entresto 97 mg/103 mg film-coated tablets 
sacubitril/valsartan 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 97 mg/103 mg tablet contains 97.2 mg sacubitril and 102.8 mg valsartan (as sacubitril valsartan 
sodium salt complex). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
14 film-coated tablets 
20 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
168 film-coated tablets 
196 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/15/1058/005 
EU/1/15/1058/006 
EU/1/15/1058/014 
EU/1/15/1058/015 
EU/1/15/1058/021 
EU/1/15/1058/022 
28 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
14 film-coated tablets 
20 film-coated tablets 
168 film-coated tablets 
196 film-coated tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Entresto 97 mg/103 mg film-coated tablets, abbreviated form accepted, if required for technical 
reasons 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
64 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entresto 97 mg/103 mg film-coated tablets 
sacubitril/valsartan 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 97 mg/103 mg tablet contains 97.2 mg sacubitril and 102.8 mg valsartan (as sacubitril valsartan 
sodium salt complex). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
Multipack: 168 (3 packs of 56) film-coated tablets 
Multipack: 196 (7 packs of 28) film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/15/1058/007 
EU/1/15/1058/016 
168 film-coated tablets (3 packs of 56) 
196 film-coated tablets (7 packs of 28) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Entresto 97 mg/103 mg film-coated tablets, abbreviated form accepted, if required for technical 
reasons 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entresto 97 mg/103 mg film-coated tablets 
sacubitril/valsartan 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each 97 mg/103 mg tablet contains 97.2 mg sacubitril and 102.8 mg valsartan (as sacubitril valsartan 
sodium salt complex). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablet 
28 film-coated tablets. Component of a multipack. Not to be sold separately. 
56 film-coated tablets. Component of a multipack. Not to be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/15/1058/007 
EU/1/15/1058/016 
168 film-coated tablets (3 packs of 56) 
196 film-coated tablets (7 packs of 28) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Entresto 97 mg/103 mg film-coated tablets, abbreviated form accepted, if required for technical 
reasons 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entresto 97 mg/103 mg tablets 
sacubitril/valsartan 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF UNIT PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entresto 6 mg/6 mg granules in capsules for opening 
sacubitril/valsartan 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 4 granules equivalent to 6.1 mg sacubitril and 6.4 mg valsartan (as sacubitril 
valsartan sodium salt complex). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Granules in capsules for opening 
60 capsules each containing 4 granules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Open the capsule and sprinkle the granules onto food. 
Do not swallow capsules. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/15/1058/023 
60 capsules each containing 4 granules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Entresto 6 mg/6 mg granules 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entresto 6 mg/6 mg granules in capsule 
sacubitril/valsartan 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Do not swallow capsules. 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF UNIT PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entresto 15 mg/16 mg granules in capsules for opening 
sacubitril/valsartan 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 10 granules equivalent to 15.18 mg sacubitril and 16.07 mg valsartan (as 
sacubitril valsartan sodium salt complex). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Granules in capsules for opening 
60 capsules each containing 10 granules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Open the capsule and sprinkle the granules onto food. 
Do not swallow capsules. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/15/1058/024 
60 capsules each containing 10 granules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Entresto 15 mg/16 mg granules 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entresto 15 mg/16 mg granules in capsule 
sacubitril/valsartan 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Do not swallow capsules. 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Entresto 24 mg/26 mg film-coated tablets 
Entresto 49 mg/51 mg film-coated tablets 
Entresto 97 mg/103 mg film-coated tablets 
sacubitril/valsartan 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Entresto is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Entresto 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Entresto 
Possible side effects 
How to store Entresto 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Entresto is and what it is used for 
Entresto is a heart medicine containing an angiotensin receptor neprilysin inhibitor. It delivers two 
active substances, sacubitril and valsartan. 
Entresto is used to treat a type of long-term heart failure in adults, children and adolescents (one year 
and older). 
This type of heart failure occurs when the heart is weak and cannot pump enough blood to the lungs 
and the rest of the body. The most common symptoms of heart failure are breathlessness, fatigue, 
tiredness and ankle swelling. 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you take Entresto 
Do not take Entresto 
• 
• 
• 
if you are allergic to sacubitril, valsartan or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed 
in section 6). 
if you are taking another type of medicine called an angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) 
inhibitor (for example enalapril, lisinopril or ramipril), which is used to treat high blood 
pressure or heart failure. If you have been taking an ACE inhibitor, wait for 36 hours after 
taking the last dose before you start to take Entresto (see “Other medicines and Entresto”). 
if you have ever had a reaction called angioedema (rapid swelling under the skin in areas such 
as the face, throat, arms and legs which can be life threatening if throat swelling blocks the 
airway) when taking an ACE inhibitor or an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) (such as 
valsartan, telmisartan or irbesartan). 
if you have a history of angioedema which is hereditary or for which the cause is unknown 
(idiopathic). 
if you have diabetes or impaired kidney function and you are being treated with a blood pressure 
lowering medicine containing aliskiren (see “Other medicines and Entresto”). 
• 
if you have severe liver disease. 
• 
if you are more than 3 months pregnant (see “Pregnancy and breast-feeding”). 
If any of the above applies to you, do not take Entresto and talk to your doctor. 
• 
• 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before or when taking Entresto: 
• 
if you are being treated with an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) or aliskiren (see “Do not 
take Entresto”). 
if you have ever had angioedema (see “Do not take Entresto” and section 4 “Possible side 
effects”). 
if you have low blood pressure or are taking any other medicines that reduce your blood 
pressure (for example, a medicine that increases urine production (diuretic)) or are suffering 
from vomiting or diarrhoea, especially if you are aged 65 years or more, or if you have kidney 
disease and low blood pressure. 
if you have kidney disease. 
if you are suffering from dehydration. 
if your kidney artery has narrowed. 
if you have liver disease. 
if you experience hallucinations, paranoia or changes in sleeping pattern while taking Entresto. 
if you have hyperkalaemia (high levels of potassium in the blood). 
if you suffer from heart failure classified as NYHA class IV (unable to carry on any physical 
activity without discomfort and may have symptoms even when resting). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of the above applies to you, tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before you take 
Entresto. 
Your doctor may check the amount of potassium and sodium in your blood at regular intervals during 
Entresto treatment. In addition, your doctor may check your blood pressure at start of treatment and 
when the doses are increased. 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to children aged below 1 year because it has not been studied in this age 
group. For children one year and older with a body weight below 40 kg, this medicine will be given as 
granules (instead of tablets). 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medicines and Entresto 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. It may be necessary to change the dose, to take other precautions, or even to stop taking 
one of the medicines. This is particularly important for the following medicines: 
• 
ACE inhibitors. Do not take Entresto with ACE inhibitors. If you have been taking an ACE 
inhibitor, wait 36 hours after taking the last dose of the ACE inhibitor before starting to take 
Entresto (see “Do not take Entresto”). If you stop taking Entresto, wait 36 hours after taking 
your last dose of Entresto before starting an ACE inhibitor. 
other medicines used to treat heart failure or lower blood pressure, such as angiotensin receptor 
blockers or aliskiren (see “Do not take Entresto”). 
some medicines known as statins that are used to lower high cholesterol levels (for example 
atorvastatin). 
sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil or avanafil, which are medicines used to treat erectile dysfunction 
or lung hypertension. 
medicines that increase the amount of potassium in the blood. These include potassium 
supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium, potassium-sparing medicines and heparin. 
painkillers of the type called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicines (NSAIDs) or selective 
cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2) inhibitors. If you are taking one of these, your doctor may want to 
check your kidney function when starting or adjusting treatment (see “Warnings and 
precautions”). 
lithium, a medicine used to treat some types of psychiatric illness. 
furosemide, a medicine belonging to the type known as diuretics, which are used to increase the 
amount of urine you produce. 
nitroglycerine, a medicine used to treat angina pectoris. 
some types of antibiotics (rifamycin group), ciclosporin (used to prevent rejection of 
transplanted organs) or antivirals such as ritonavir (used to treat HIV/AIDS). 
metformin, a medicine used to treat diabetes. 
• 
If any of the above applies to you, tell your doctor or pharmacist before you take Entresto. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Pregnancy 
You must tell your doctor if you think that you are (or might become) pregnant. Your doctor will 
normally advise you to stop taking this medicine before you become pregnant or as soon as you know 
you are pregnant, and will advise you to take another medicine instead of Entresto. 
This medicine is not recommended in early pregnancy, and must not be taken when more than 
3 months pregnant, as it may cause serious harm to your baby if it is used after the third month of 
pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Entresto is not recommended for mothers who are breast-feeding. Tell your doctor if you are 
breast-feeding or about to start breast-feeding. 
Driving and using machines 
Before you drive a vehicle, use tools or operate machines, or carry out other activities that require 
concentration, make sure you know how Entresto affects you. If you feel dizzy or very tired while 
taking this medicine, do not drive a vehicle, cycle or use any tools or machines. 
Entresto contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 97 mg/103 mg dose, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium free’. 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
How to take Entresto 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Adults 
You will usually start by taking a 24 mg/26 mg or 49 mg/51 mg tablet twice a day (one tablet in the 
morning and one tablet in the evening). Your doctor will decide your exact starting dose based on 
which medicines you have been taking previously and your blood pressure. Your doctor will then 
adjust the dose every 2-4 weeks depending on how you respond to the treatment until the best dose for 
you is found. 
The usual recommended target dose is 97 mg/103 mg twice a day (one tablet in the morning and one 
tablet in the evening). 
Children and adolescents (one year and older) 
Your (or your child’s) doctor will decide the starting dose based on body weight and other factors 
including previously taken medicines. The doctor will adjust the dose every 2-4 weeks until the best 
dose is found. 
Entresto should be given twice a day (one tablet in the morning and one tablet in the evening). 
Entresto film-coated tablets are not meant to be used in children who weigh less than 40 kg. For these 
patients, Entresto granules are available. 
Patients taking Entresto can develop low blood pressure (dizziness, light-headedness), a high level of 
potassium in the blood (which would be detected when your doctor performed a blood test) or 
decreased kidney function. If this happens, your doctor may reduce the dose of any other medicine you 
are taking, temporarily reduce the Entresto dose, or stop Entresto treatment completely. 
Swallow the tablets with a glass of water. You can take Entresto with or without food. Splitting or 
crushing of the tablets is not recommended. 
If you take more Entresto than you should 
If you have accidentally taken too many Entresto tablets, or if someone else has taken your tablets, 
contact your doctor immediately. If you experience severe dizziness and/or fainting, tell your doctor as 
quickly as possible and lie down. 
If you forget to take Entresto 
It is advisable to take your medicine at the same time each day. However, if you forget to take a dose, 
you should simply take the next one at the scheduled time. Do not take a double dose to make up for a 
forgotten dose. 
If you stop taking Entresto 
Stopping your treatment with Entresto may cause your condition to get worse. Do not stop taking your 
medicine unless your doctor tells you to. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some side effects may be serious. 
• 
Stop taking Entresto and seek immediate medical attention if you notice any swelling of the 
face, lips, tongue and/or throat, which may cause difficulties in breathing or swallowing. These 
may be signs of angioedema (an uncommon side effect which may affect up to 1 in 100 people). 
Other possible side effects: 
If any of the side effects listed below becomes severe, tell your doctor or pharmacist. 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
low blood pressure, which can cause symptoms of dizziness and light-headedness (hypotension) 
high level of potassium in the blood, shown in a blood test (hyperkalaemia) 
decreased kidney function (renal impairment) 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
cough 
dizziness 
diarrhoea 
low level of red blood cells, shown in a blood test (anaemia) 
tiredness (fatigue) 
(acute) inability of the kidney to work properly (renal failure) 
low level of potassium in the blood, shown in a blood test (hypokalaemia) 
headache 
fainting (syncope) 
weakness (asthenia) 
feeling sick (nausea) 
low blood pressure (dizziness, light-headedness) when switching from sitting or lying to 
standing position 
gastritis (stomach pain, nausea) 
spinning sensation (vertigo) 
low level of sugar in the blood, shown in a blood test (hypoglycaemia) 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
allergic reaction with rash and itching (hypersensitivity) 
dizziness when switching from sitting to standing position (dizziness postural) 
low level of sodium in the blood, shown in a blood test (hyponatraemia) 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people) 
• 
• 
seeing, hearing or feeling things that are not there (hallucinations) 
changes in sleeping pattern (sleep disorder) 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10 000 people) 
• 
paranoia 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
How to store Entresto 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice that the pack is damaged or shows signs of tampering. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater. Ask your pharmacist how to throw away medicines 
you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Entresto contains 
• 
The active substances are sacubitril and valsartan. 
o 
Each 24 mg/26 mg film-coated tablet contains 24.3 mg sacubitril and 25.7 mg valsartan 
(as sacubitril valsartan sodium salt complex). 
Each 49 mg/51 mg film-coated tablet contains 48.6 mg sacubitril and 51.4 mg valsartan 
(as sacubitril valsartan sodium salt complex). 
Each 97 mg/103 mg film-coated tablet contains 97.2 mg sacubitril and 102.8 mg valsartan 
(as sacubitril valsartan sodium salt complex). 
o 
o 
• 
• 
• 
The other ingredients in the tablet core are microcrystalline cellulose, low-substituted 
hydroxypropylcellulose, crospovidone, magnesium stearate, talc and silica colloidal anhydrous 
(see end of section 2 under ‘Entresto contains sodium’). 
The 24 mg/26 mg and the 97 mg/103 mg tablet coatings contain hypromellose, titanium dioxide 
(E171), Macrogol (4000), talc, iron oxide red (E172) and iron oxide black (E172). 
The 49 mg/51 mg tablet coating contains hypromellose, titanium dioxide (E171), Macrogol 
(4000), talc, iron oxide red (E172) and iron oxide yellow (E172). 
What Entresto looks like and contents of the pack 
Entresto 24 mg/26 mg film-coated tablets are violet-white oval tablets with “NVR” on one side and 
“LZ” on the other side. Approximate tablet dimensions 13.1 mm x 5.2 mm. 
Entresto 49 mg/51 mg film-coated tablets are pale yellow oval tablets with “NVR” on one side and 
“L1” on the other side. Approximate tablet dimensions 13.1 mm x 5.2 mm 
Entresto 97 mg/103 mg film-coated tablets are light pink oval tablets with “NVR” on one side and 
“L11” on the other side. Approximate tablet dimensions 15.1 mm x 6.0 mm. 
The tablets are supplied in packs containing 14, 20, 28, 56, 168 or 196 tablets and in multipacks 
comprising 7 cartons, each containing 28 tablets. The 49 mg/51 mg and 97 mg/103 mg tablets are also 
supplied in multipacks comprising 3 cartons, each containing 56 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing LLC 
Verovskova Ulica 57 
1000 Ljubljana 
Slovenia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A 
Via Provinciale Schito 131 
80058 Torre Annunziata (NA) 
Italy 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstrasse 25 
90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
LEK farmacevtska družba d. d., Poslovna enota PROIZVODNJA LENDAVA 
Trimlini 2D 
Lendava, 9220 
Slovenia 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
България 
Novartis Bulgaria EOOD 
Тел: +359 2 489 98 28 
Česká republika 
Novartis s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 775 111 
Danmark 
Novartis Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 39 16 84 00 
Deutschland 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 911 273 0 
Eesti 
SIA Novartis Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 66 30 810 
Lietuva 
SIA Novartis Baltics Lietuvos filialas 
Tel: +370 5 269 16 50 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
Magyarország 
Novartis Hungária Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 457 65 00 
Malta 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +356 2122 2872 
Nederland 
Novartis Pharma B.V. 
Tel: +31 88 04 52 111 
Norge 
Novartis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 23 05 20 00 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα 
Novartis (Hellas) A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 281 17 12 
España 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 306 42 00 
France 
Novartis Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 1 55 47 66 00 
Hrvatska 
Novartis Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel. +385 1 6274 220 
Ireland 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 260 12 55 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 96 54 1 
Κύπρος 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Τηλ: +357 22 690 690 
Latvija 
SIA Novartis Baltics 
Tel: +371 67 887 070 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Österreich 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 86 6570 
Polska 
Novartis Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 375 4888 
Portugal 
Novartis Farma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A. 
Tel: +351 21 000 8600 
România 
Novartis Pharma Services Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 21 31299 01 
Slovenija 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +386 1 300 75 50 
Slovenská republika 
Novartis Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 5542 5439 
Suomi/Finland 
Novartis Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 6133 200 
Sverige 
Novartis Sverige AB 
Tel: +46 8 732 32 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +44 1276 698370 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Entresto 6 mg/6 mg granules in capsules for opening 
Entresto 15 mg/16 mg granules in capsules for opening 
sacubitril/valsartan 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you (or your child) start taking this medicine because it 
contains important information. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you (or your child) only. Do not pass it on to others. It 
may harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you (or your child) get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any 
possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Entresto is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you (or your child) take Entresto 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Entresto 
Possible side effects 
How to store Entresto 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Entresto is and what it is used for 
Entresto is a heart medicine containing an angiotensin receptor neprilysin inhibitor. It delivers two 
active substances, sacubitril and valsartan. 
Entresto is used to treat a type of long-term heart failure in children and adolescents (one year and 
older). 
This type of heart failure occurs when the heart is weak and cannot pump enough blood to the lungs 
and the rest of the body. The most common symptoms of heart failure are breathlessness, fatigue, 
tiredness and ankle swelling. 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you (or your child) take Entresto 
Do not take Entresto 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you (or your child) are allergic to sacubitril, valsartan or any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6). 
if you (or your child) are taking another type of medicine called an angiotensin converting 
enzyme (ACE) inhibitor (for example enalapril, lisinopril or ramipril), which is used to treat 
high blood pressure or heart failure. If you have been taking an ACE inhibitor, wait for 36 hours 
after taking the last dose before you start to take Entresto (see “Other medicines and Entresto”). 
if you (or your child) have ever had a reaction called angioedema (rapid swelling under the skin 
in areas such as the face, throat, arms and legs which can be life threatening if throat swelling 
blocks the airway) when taking an ACE inhibitor or an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) 
(such as valsartan, telmisartan or irbesartan). 
if you (or your child) have a history of angioedema which is hereditary or for which the cause is 
unknown (idiopathic). 
if you (or your child) have diabetes or impaired kidney function and you are being treated with a 
blood pressure lowering medicine containing aliskiren (see “Other medicines and Entresto”). 
if you (or your child) have severe liver disease. 
if you (or your child) are more than 3 months pregnant (see “Pregnancy and breast-feeding”). 
• 
• 
If any of the above applies to you, do not take Entresto and talk to your doctor. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before or when taking Entresto: 
• 
if you (or your child) are being treated with an angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB) or aliskiren 
(see “Do not take Entresto”). 
if you (or your child) have ever had angioedema (see “Do not take Entresto” and section 4 
“Possible side effects”). 
if you (or your child) have low blood pressure or are taking any other medicines that reduce 
your blood pressure (for example, a medicine that increases urine production (diuretic)) or are 
suffering from vomiting or diarrhoea, especially if you are aged 65 years or more, or if you have 
kidney disease and low blood pressure. 
if you (or your child) have kidney disease. 
if you (or your child) are suffering from dehydration. 
if your (or your child’s) kidney artery has narrowed. 
if you (or your child) have liver disease. 
if you (or your child) experience hallucinations, paranoia or changes in sleeping pattern while 
taking Entresto. 
if you (or your child) have hyperkalaemia (high levels of potassium in the blood). 
if you (or your child) suffer from heart failure classified as NYHA class IV (unable to carry on 
any physical activity without discomfort and may have symptoms even when resting). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If any of the above applies to you, tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before you take 
Entresto. 
Your doctor may check the amount of potassium and sodium in your blood at regular intervals during 
Entresto treatment. In addition, your doctor may check your blood pressure at start of treatment and 
when the doses are increased. 
Children (below one year of age) 
Use in children below one year of age is not recommended. There is limited experience on use in 
children in this age group. Entresto film-coated tablets are available for children who weigh more than 
40 kg. 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medicines and Entresto 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you (or your child) are taking, have recently taken or might 
take any other medicines. It may be necessary to change the dose, to take other precautions, or even to 
stop taking one of the medicines. This is particularly important for the following medicines: 
• 
ACE inhibitors. Do not take Entresto with ACE inhibitors. If you have been taking an ACE 
inhibitor, wait 36 hours after taking the last dose of the ACE inhibitor before starting to take 
Entresto (see “Do not take Entresto”). If you stop taking Entresto, wait 36 hours after taking 
your last dose of Entresto before starting an ACE inhibitor. 
other medicines used to treat heart failure or lower blood pressure, such as angiotensin receptor 
blockers or aliskiren (see “Do not take Entresto”). 
some medicines known as statins that are used to lower high cholesterol levels (for example 
atorvastatin). 
sildenafil, tadalafil, vardenafil or avanafil, which are medicines used to treat erectile dysfunction 
or lung hypertension. 
medicines that increase the amount of potassium in the blood. These include potassium 
supplements, salt substitutes containing potassium, potassium-sparing medicines and heparin. 
painkillers of the type called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicines (NSAIDs) or selective 
cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2) inhibitors. If you are taking one of these, your doctor may want to 
check your kidney function when starting or adjusting treatment (see “Warnings and 
precautions”). 
lithium, a medicine used to treat some types of psychiatric illness. 
furosemide, a medicine belonging to the type known as diuretics, which are used to increase the 
amount of urine you produce. 
nitroglycerine, a medicine used to treat angina pectoris. 
some types of antibiotics (rifamycin group), ciclosporin (used to prevent rejection of 
transplanted organs) or antivirals such as ritonavir (used to treat HIV/AIDS). 
metformin, a medicine used to treat diabetes. 
• 
If any of the above applies to you, tell your doctor or pharmacist before you take Entresto. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Pregnancy 
You must tell your doctor if you think that you (or your child) are (or might become) pregnant. Your 
doctor will normally advise you to stop taking this medicine before you become pregnant or as soon as 
you know you are pregnant, and will advise you to take another medicine instead of Entresto. 
This medicine is not recommended in early pregnancy, and must not be taken when more than 
3 months pregnant, as it may cause serious harm to your baby if it is used after the third month of 
pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Entresto is not recommended for mothers who are breast-feeding. Tell your doctor if you are 
breast-feeding or about to start breast-feeding. 
Driving and using machines 
Before you drive a vehicle, use tools or operate machines, or carry out other activities that require 
concentration, make sure you know how Entresto affects you. If you feel dizzy or very tired while 
taking this medicine, do not drive a vehicle, cycle or use any tools or machines. 
Entresto contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 97 mg/103 mg dose, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium free’. 
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
How to take Entresto 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Your (or your child’s) doctor will decide the starting dose based on body weight and other factors 
including previously taken medicines. The doctor will adjust the dose every 2-4 weeks until the best 
dose is found. 
Entresto should be given twice a day (once in the morning and once in the evening). 
See the instructions for use for how to prepare and take Entresto granules. 
Patients taking Entresto can develop low blood pressure (dizziness, light-headedness), a high level of 
potassium in the blood (which would be detected when your doctor performed a blood test) or 
decreased kidney function. If this happens, your doctor may reduce the dose of any other medicine you 
(or your child) are taking, temporarily reduce the Entresto dose, or stop Entresto treatment completely. 
If you take more Entresto than you should 
If you (or your child) have accidentally taken too many Entresto granules, or if someone else has taken 
your granules, contact your doctor immediately. If you (or your child) experience severe dizziness 
and/or fainting, tell your doctor as quickly as possible and lie down. 
If you (or your child) forget to take Entresto 
It is advisable to take your medicine at the same time each day. However, if you (or your child) forget 
to take a dose, you should simply take the next one at the scheduled time. Do not take a double dose to 
make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you (or your child) stop taking Entresto 
Stopping your treatment with Entresto may cause your condition to get worse. Do not stop taking your 
medicine unless your doctor tells you to. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some side effects may be serious. 
• 
Stop taking Entresto and seek immediate medical attention if you (or your child) notice any 
swelling of the face, lips, tongue and/or throat, which may cause difficulties in breathing or 
swallowing. These may be signs of angioedema (an uncommon side effect which may affect up 
to 1 in 100 people). 
Other possible side effects: 
If any of the side effects listed below becomes severe, tell your doctor or pharmacist. 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
low blood pressure, which can cause symptoms of dizziness and light-headedness (hypotension) 
high level of potassium in the blood, shown in a blood test (hyperkalaemia) 
decreased kidney function (renal impairment) 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
cough 
dizziness 
diarrhoea 
low level of red blood cells, shown in a blood test (anaemia) 
tiredness (fatigue) 
(acute) inability of the kidney to work properly (renal failure) 
low level of potassium in the blood, shown in a blood test (hypokalaemia) 
headache 
fainting (syncope) 
weakness (asthenia) 
feeling sick (nausea) 
low blood pressure (dizziness, light-headedness) when switching from sitting or lying to 
standing position 
gastritis (stomach pain, nausea) 
spinning sensation (vertigo) 
low level of sugar in the blood, shown in a blood test (hypoglycaemia) 
• 
• 
• 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
allergic reaction with rash and itching (hypersensitivity) 
dizziness when switching from sitting to standing position (dizziness postural) 
low level of sodium in the blood, shown in a blood test (hyponatraemia) 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people) 
• 
• 
seeing, hearing or feeling things that are not there (hallucinations) 
changes in sleeping pattern (sleep disorder) 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10 000 people) 
• 
paranoia 
Reporting of side effects 
If you (or your child) get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any 
possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national 
reporting system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more 
information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Entresto 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice that the pack is damaged or shows signs of tampering. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater. Ask your pharmacist how to throw away medicines 
you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Entresto contains 
• 
The active substances are sacubitril and valsartan. 
o 
Each Entresto 6 mg/6 mg granules in capsule for opening (granules in capsule) contains 
four granules equivalent to 6.1 mg sacubitril and 6.4 mg valsartan (as sacubitril valsartan 
sodium salt complex). 
Each Entresto 15 mg/16 mg granules in capsule for opening (granules in capsule) 
contains ten granules equivalent to 15.18 mg sacubitril and 16.07 mg valsartan (as 
sacubitril valsartan sodium salt complex). 
o 
• 
• 
• 
The other ingredients of the granules are microcrystalline cellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose, 
magnesium stearate, silica colloidal anhydrous and talc. 
The ingredients of the film coat are basic butylated methacrylate copolymer, talc, stearic acid 
and sodium laurilsulfate (see end of section 2 under ‘Entresto contains sodium’). 
The ingredients of the capsule shell are hypromellose, titanium dioxide (E171), iron oxide 
(yellow) (E172) (Entresto 15 mg/16 mg only) and printing ink. 
o 
The ingredients of the printing ink are shellac, propylene glycol, iron oxide (red) (E172), 
ammonia solution (concentrated) and potassium hydroxide. 
What Entresto looks like and contents of the pack 
Entresto 6 mg/6 mg granules are white to slightly yellow in colour, round in shape, approximately 
2 mm in diameter and provided in a capsule. The capsule consists of a white cap, marked “04” in red 
and a transparent body, marked “NVR” in red. An arrow is printed on both the body and the cap. 
Entresto 15 mg/16 mg granules are white to slightly yellow in colour, round in shape, approximately 
2 mm in diameter and provided in a capsule. The capsule consists of a yellow cap, marked “10” in red 
and a transparent body, marked “NVR” in red. An arrow is printed on both the body and the cap. 
Entresto 6 mg/6 mg granules in capsules for opening and Entresto 15 mg/16 mg granules in capsules 
for opening are supplied in packs containing 60 capsules. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Lek farmacevtska družba d.d. 
Verovskova Ulica 57 
1526 Ljubljana 
Slovenia 
Novartis Pharmaceutical Manufacturing LLC 
Verovskova Ulica 57 
1000 Ljubljana 
Slovenia 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstrasse 25 
90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
Novartis Farmaceutica S.A. 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
България 
Novartis Bulgaria EOOD 
Тел: +359 2 489 98 28 
Česká republika 
Novartis s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 775 111 
Danmark 
Novartis Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 39 16 84 00 
Deutschland 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 911 273 0 
Eesti 
SIA Novartis Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 66 30 810 
Ελλάδα 
Novartis (Hellas) A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 281 17 12 
España 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 306 42 00 
France 
Novartis Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 1 55 47 66 00 
Hrvatska 
Novartis Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel. +385 1 6274 220 
Ireland 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 260 12 55 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 96 54 1 
Lietuva 
SIA Novartis Baltics Lietuvos filialas 
Tel: +370 5 269 16 50 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
Magyarország 
Novartis Hungária Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 457 65 00 
Malta 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +356 2122 2872 
Nederland 
Novartis Pharma B.V. 
Tel: +31 88 04 52 111 
Norge 
Novartis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 23 05 20 00 
Österreich 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 86 6570 
Polska 
Novartis Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 375 4888 
Portugal 
Novartis Farma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A. 
Tel: +351 21 000 8600 
România 
Novartis Pharma Services Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 21 31299 01 
Slovenija 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +386 1 300 75 50 
Slovenská republika 
Novartis Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 5542 5439 
Suomi/Finland 
Novartis Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 6133 200 
91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Κύπρος 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Τηλ: +357 22 690 690 
Latvija 
SIA Novartis Baltics 
Tel: +371 67 887 070 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Sverige 
Novartis Sverige AB 
Tel: +46 8 732 32 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +44 1276 698370 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for use for Entresto 6 mg/6 mg granules in capsules for opening and Entresto 
15 mg/16 mg granules in capsules for opening 
To ensure that you use Entresto granules correctly for your child, it is important that you follow these 
instructions. Your doctor, pharmacist or nurse will show you how to do this. Ask one of them if you 
have any questions. 
Entresto granules are contained within capsules and are available in two strengths: 6 mg/6 mg granules 
and 15 mg/16 mg granules. The capsules are packaged in blister cards. You may receive one or both 
strengths depending on the dose your child needs. 
You can see the difference between the two strengths by the colour of the capsule cap and the imprint 
on it. 
• 
• 
The capsule containing the 6 mg/6 mg granules has a white cap with number 04 printed on it. 
The capsule containing the 15 mg/16 mg granules has a yellow cap with number 10 printed on 
it. 
The capsules containing Entresto granules must be opened before use. 
Do NOT swallow the whole capsule. Do NOT swallow the empty capsule shells. 
If you use both strengths of Entresto granules, make sure you use the correct number of 
capsules of each strength as instructed by your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
Step 1 
•  Wash and dry your hands 
Step 2 
•  Place the following items on a clean 
flat surface: 
o  A small bowl, cup or spoon with a 
small amount of soft food the 
child likes. 
o  Blister card(s) with capsules 
containing Entresto granules. 
•  Check that you have the correct 
strength(s) of Entresto granules. 
Step 3 
•  Push the blister(s) to remove the 
capsule(s). 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 4 
To open the capsule: 
•  Hold the capsule upright (with the 
coloured cap on top) so that the 
granules are in the bottom of the 
capsule. 
•  Hold the capsule over the soft food. 
•  Gently pinch the middle of the capsule 
and pull slightly to separate the two 
ends of the capsule. Take care not to 
spill the contents. 
Step 5 
•  Empty all of the granules from the 
capsule onto the food. 
•  Make sure that you do not miss any 
granules. 
Repeat steps 4 and 5 if you need more than 
one capsule to reach the prescribed dose. 
Step 6 
Feed the food with the granules to the child 
immediately, making sure your child eats 
all of it. 
Make sure your child does not chew the 
granules to avoid change of taste. 
Step 7 
Throw away the empty shells of the 
capsule. 
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
