28 January 2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): vedolizumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010186/202005 
Period covered by the PSUR: 18/05/2019 To: 18/05/2020  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for vedolizumab, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
During the previous PSUSA the MAH performed cumulative review of interstitial lung disease (ILD) cases 
on the PRAC Rapporteur request.  Eighty-seven reports were retrieved from the company safety 
database describing 87 events. According to MAH assessment ten cases were out of scope, 34 cases 
were labelled as confounded, 36 cases were regarded as limited information cases, so finally there were 
no cases of interest. In PRAC opinion for 10 cases, potentially confounded there were no sufficient 
grounds to exclude vedolizumab as a causative agent. Based on the available evidence the PRAC 
recommended cumulative review of ILD cases in the current PSUR. In the reporting period (1 year) 
additional 47 cases have been reported, thus altogether 134 cases of ILD have been recorded for 
vedolizumab including 15 cases with positive de-challenge. There is a significant increase in the ILD 
cases (87 cases / 11 years vs 47 cases during the last reporting period). Interstitial lung diseases are 
known adverse drug reactions of biological drugs with different mechanism of action (anti-TNF agents, 
rituximab, tocilizumab, abatacept). 
Based on the available evidence: fifteen vedolizumab induced ILD cases with positive de-challenge  
including two published in the literature by Lissner, 31 cases tagged as confounded but in which 
vedolizumab contribution cannot be excluded and at least three cases regarded as possible, the PRAC is 
of the opinion that the product information update is warranted. 
  The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for vedolizumab the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing vedolizumab is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
