EMA/429876/2023  
EMEA/H/C/002782 
Entyvio (vedolizumab) 
An overview of Entyvio and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Entyvio and what is it used for? 
Entyvio is a medicine used to treat adults with ulcerative colitis (a disease causing inflammation and 
ulcers in the lining of the bowel) or Crohn’s disease (a disease causing inflammation of the digestive 
tract). Entyvio is used to treat moderately to severely active disease when conventional therapy or 
medicines called TNF-alfa antagonists are ineffective, no longer effective, or cannot be tolerated by the 
patient. 
Entyvio is also used for the treatment of adults with ongoing (chronic) pouchitis (a disease that causes 
inflammation of a pouch created during certain types of surgery where the large intestine in people 
with ulcerative colitis is removed). Entyvio is used to treat moderately to severely active disease when 
antibiotic therapy is ineffective or no longer effective.  
Entyvio contains the active substance vedolizumab.  
How is Entyvio used? 
Entyvio is available as a powder to be made up into a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein and as a 
prefilled syringe or pen for injection under the skin. It can only be obtained with a prescription and 
treatment should be started and supervised by a specialist who has experience in the diagnosis and 
treatment of ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease or pouchitis. 
The infusion into a vein is given at the start of treatment and in weeks two and six, and then every 
eight weeks in patients who respond to treatment. The infusion lasts 30 minutes; all patients are 
monitored for any reactions during the infusion and for at least one to two hours after the end of the 
infusion.  
Patients with ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease who have responded to initial treatment by infusion 
may be switched to treatment by injection under the skin. The first dose by injection under the skin 
replaces the next scheduled infusion, and subsequent doses are then given every 2 weeks. Patients or 
their caregivers can inject the medicine themselves once they have been properly trained. 
For more information about using Entyvio, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Entyvio work? 
The active substance in Entyvio, vedolizumab, is a monoclonal antibody, a type of protein that has 
been designed to recognise and attach to a specific structure (called an antigen) in the body. 
Vedolizumab has been designed to attach to ‘alfa-4-beta-7 integrin’, a protein mostly found on the 
surface of certain white blood cells in the gut. In ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease and pouchitis these 
cells are involved in causing inflammation in the gut. By blocking alfa-4-beta-7 integrin, vedolizumab 
reduces the inflammation in the gut and the symptoms of these diseases. 
What benefits of Entyvio have been shown in studies? 
Ulcerative colitis 
Entyvio for infusion into a vein has been investigated in a main study in patients with moderate to 
severe active ulcerative colitis in whom conventional therapy or TNF-alfa antagonists were ineffective 
or could not be tolerated. Patients received either Entyvio or placebo (a dummy treatment) and the 
main measure of effectiveness was the proportion of patients whose symptoms improved after 6 weeks 
of treatment. Entyvio was shown to be more effective than placebo: 47% (106 out of 225) of patients 
who received Entyvio showed an improvement in symptoms, compared with 26% (38 out of 149) of 
patients who received placebo. In addition, the study also showed that Entyvio maintained the effect 
up to 52 weeks more effectively than placebo. 
In results involving 216 patients who had responded to initial Entyvio infusion in a second study, 
injection under the skin every 2 weeks was as effective in maintaining control of the disease over a 
year as infusion every 8 weeks. After 52 weeks, around 46% of those given injection under the skin 
(49 of 106) and 42% of those given the medicine by infusion (23 of 54) still had their symptoms 
controlled. 
Crohn’s disease 
Entyvio was also shown to be more effective than placebo at improving symptoms of Crohn’s disease. 
In one main study in adult patients with moderate to severe active Crohn’s disease in whom 
conventional therapy or TNF-alfa antagonists were ineffective or could not be tolerated, 15% (32 out of 
220) of patients receiving Entyvio showed improved symptoms after 6 weeks of treatment, compared 
with 7% (10 out of 148) of patients on placebo. Similarly, in this study the maintenance of the effect 
up to 52 weeks with Entyvio was more effective than with placebo. 
Data from another study involving patients who had responded to Entyvio infusion showed that 
injection under the skin every 2 weeks could maintain control of the disease: after 52 weeks around 
48% of those treated in this way (132 of 275) still had their symptoms controlled. 
Pouchitis 
Entyvio was also shown to be more effective than placebo at improving symptoms of chronic pouchitis 
using the Pouchitis Disease Activity Index (PDAI) and the modified PDAI (mPDAI). The mPDAI and 
PDAI are 12 and 18  point scales of disease severity, with higher scores corresponding to worse 
disease severity. 
In one main study in 102 adult patients with active chronic pouchitis in whom conventional antibiotic 
therapy was ineffective, around 31% (16 out of 51) of patients receiving Entyvio were in clinical 
remission after 14 weeks of treatment, compared with 10% (5 out of 51) of patients on placebo. 
Remission was defined as an mPDAI score less than 5 and a reduction in total mPDAI score of equal or 
more than 2 points from baseline. 
Entyvio (vedolizumab)  
EMA/429876/2023  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What are the risks associated with Entyvio? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Entyvio, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effects with Entyvio (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and throat such as a cold), headache and arthralgia (joint 
pain).  
Entyvio must not be used in people with active serious infections such as tuberculosis, sepsis (infection 
in the blood), infection with cytomegalovirus, listeriosis (infection with bacteria called Listeria) or 
opportunistic infections (those seen in patients with a weakened immune system) such as progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML, a rare brain infection that usually leads to severe disability or 
death).  
Why is Entyvio authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Entyvio’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. In ulcerative colitis, the Agency considered that the benefit of Entyvio has 
been clearly demonstrated, which is relevant for patients who do not respond to anti-TNF-alfa therapy. 
Furthermore, the risks are considered manageable, despite the lack of long-term safety data, if 
recommendations in place are followed. 
In Crohn’s disease, the Agency considered that although the time required for improvement of 
symptoms may be longer and the size of the effect limited when compared with anti-TNF-alfa therapy, 
Entyvio still offers a benefit for patients because of its different mechanism of action and safety profile. 
In pouchitis, Entyvio led to better rates of remission compared with placebo. Its safety profile was 
similar to the other uses and the Agency considered that the benefits are greater than its risks. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Entyvio? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Entyvio have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Entyvio are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Entyvio are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Entyvio 
Entyvio received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 22 May 2014.  
Further information on Entyvio can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/entyvio. 
This overview was last updated in 10-2023.  
Entyvio (vedolizumab)  
EMA/429876/2023  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
