ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entyvio 300 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each vial contains 300 mg of vedolizumab. 
After reconstitution, each mL contains 60 mg of vedolizumab. 
Vedolizumab is a humanised IgG1 monoclonal antibody produced in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) 
cells by recombinant DNA technology. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion. 
White to off-white lyophilised cake or powder. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Ulcerative colitis 
Entyvio is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative 
colitis who have had an inadequate response with, lost response to, or were intolerant to either 
conventional therapy or a tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNFα) antagonist. 
Crohn’s disease 
Entyvio is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active Crohn’s 
disease who have had an inadequate response with, lost response to, or were intolerant to either 
conventional therapy or a tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNFα) antagonist. 
Pouchitis 
Entyvio is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active chronic 
pouchitis, who have undergone proctocolectomy and ileal pouch anal anastomosis for ulcerative 
colitis, and have had an inadequate response with or lost response to antibiotic therapy. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist healthcare professionals experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease or pouchitis (see section 4.4). Patients 
should be given the package leaflet. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posology 
Ulcerative colitis  
The recommended dose regimen of intravenous vedolizumab is 300 mg administered by intravenous 
infusion at 0, 2 and 6 weeks and then every 8 weeks thereafter.  
Therapy for patients with ulcerative colitis should be discontinued if no evidence of therapeutic benefit 
is observed by week 10 (see section 5.1). 
Some patients who have experienced a decrease in their response may benefit from an increase in 
dosing frequency to intravenous vedolizumab 300 mg every 4 weeks. 
In patients who have responded to treatment with vedolizumab, corticosteroids may be reduced and/or 
discontinued in accordance with standard of care. 
Retreatment 
If therapy is interrupted and there is a need to restart treatment with intravenous vedolizumab, dosing 
at every 4 weeks may be considered (see section 5.1). The treatment interruption period in clinical 
trials extended up to 1 year. Efficacy was regained with no evident increase in adverse reactions or 
infusion-related reactions during retreatment with vedolizumab (see section 4.8). 
Crohn’s disease 
The recommended dose regimen of intravenous vedolizumab is 300 mg administered by intravenous 
infusion at 0, 2 and 6 weeks and then every 8 weeks thereafter. 
Patients with Crohn’s disease, who have not shown a response may benefit from a dose of intravenous 
vedolizumab at week 10 (see section 4.4). Therapy should be continued every 8 weeks from week 14 
in responding patients. Therapy for patients with Crohn’s disease should be discontinued if no 
evidence of therapeutic benefit is observed by week 14 (see section 5.1). 
Some patients who have experienced a decrease in their response may benefit from an increase in 
dosing frequency to intravenous vedolizumab 300 mg every 4 weeks. 
In patients who have responded to treatment with vedolizumab, corticosteroids may be reduced and/or 
discontinued in accordance with standard of care. 
Retreatment 
If therapy is interrupted and there is a need to restart treatment with intravenous vedolizumab, dosing 
at every 4 weeks may be considered (see section 5.1). The treatment interruption period in clinical 
trials extended up to 1 year. Efficacy was regained with no evident increase in adverse reactions or 
infusion-related reactions during retreatment with vedolizumab (see section 4.8). 
Pouchitis 
The recommended dose regimen of intravenous vedolizumab is 300 mg administered by intravenous 
infusion at 0, 2 and 6 weeks and then every 8 weeks thereafter.  
Treatment with vedolizumab should be initiated in parallel with standard of care antibiotic (e.g., four-
week of ciprofloxacin) (see section 5.1). 
Discontinuation of treatment should be considered if no evidence of therapeutic benefit is observed by 
14 weeks of treatment with vedolizumab. 
Retreatment 
There are no retreatment data available in patients with pouchitis. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Elderly patients 
No dose adjustment is required in elderly patients. Population pharmacokinetic analyses showed no 
effect of age (see section 5.2). 
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment 
Vedolizumab has not been studied in these patient populations. No dose recommendations can be 
made. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of vedolizumab in children aged 0 to 17 years old have not been established. 
No data are available. 
Method of administration 
Entyvio 300 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion is for intravenous use only. It is to be 
reconstituted and further diluted prior to intravenous administration. 
Entyvio 300 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion is administered as an intravenous 
infusion over 30 minutes. Patients should be monitored during and after infusion (see section 4.4). 
For instructions on reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal product before administration, see 
section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Active severe infections such as tuberculosis (TB), sepsis, cytomegalovirus, listeriosis, and 
opportunistic infections such as Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML) (see section 4.4). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Intravenous vedolizumab should be administered in a healthcare setting equipped to allow 
management of acute hypersensitivity reactions including anaphylaxis, if they occur. Appropriate 
monitoring and medical support measures should be available for immediate use when administering 
intravenous vedolizumab. All patients should be observed continuously during each infusion. For the 
first 2 infusions, they should also be observed for approximately 2 hours following completion of the 
infusion for signs and symptoms of acute hypersensitivity reactions. For all subsequent infusions, 
patients should be observed for approximately 1 hour following completion of the infusion. 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Infusion-related reactions and hypersensitivity reactions 
In clinical studies, infusion-related reactions (IRR) and hypersensitivity reactions have been reported, 
with the majority being mild to moderate in severity (see section 4.8). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a severe IRR, anaphylactic reaction, or other severe reaction occurs, administration of Entyvio must 
be discontinued immediately and appropriate treatment initiated (e.g., epinephrine and antihistamines) 
(see section 4.3). 
If a mild to moderate IRR occurs, the infusion rate can be slowed or interrupted and appropriate 
treatment initiated. Once the mild or moderate IRR subsides, continue the infusion. Physicians should 
consider pre-treatment (e.g., with antihistamine, hydrocortisone and/or paracetamol) prior to the next 
infusion for patients with a history of mild to moderate IRR to vedolizumab, in order to minimize their 
risks (see section 4.8). 
Infections 
Vedolizumab is a gut-selective integrin antagonist with no identified systemic immunosuppressive 
activity (see section 5.1). 
Physicians should be aware of the potential increased risk of opportunistic infections or infections for 
which the gut is a defensive barrier (see section 4.8). Vedolizumab treatment is not to be initiated in 
patients with active, severe infections until the infections are controlled, and physicians should 
consider withholding treatment in patients who develop a severe infection while on chronic treatment 
with vedolizumab. Caution should be exercised when considering the use of vedolizumab in patients 
with a controlled chronic severe infection or a history of recurring severe infections. Patients should be 
monitored closely for infections before, during and after treatment. 
Vedolizumab is contraindicated in patients with active tuberculosis (see section 4.3). Before starting 
treatment with vedolizumab, patients must be screened for tuberculosis according to the local practice. 
If latent tuberculosis is diagnosed, appropriate treatment must be started with anti-tuberculosis 
treatment in accordance with local recommendations, before beginning vedolizumab. In patients 
diagnosed with TB whilst receiving vedolizumab therapy, then vedolizumab therapy should be 
discontinued until the TB infection has been resolved. 
Some integrin antagonists and some systemic immunosuppressive agents have been associated with 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), which is a rare and often fatal opportunistic 
infection caused by the John Cunningham (JC) virus. By binding to the α4β7 integrin expressed on 
gut-homing lymphocytes, vedolizumab exerts an immunosuppressive effect specific to the gut. 
Although no systemic immunosuppressive effect was noted in healthy subjects the effects on systemic 
immune system function in patients with inflammatory bowel disease is not known.  
Healthcare professionals should monitor patients on vedolizumab for any new onset or worsening of 
neurological signs and symptoms as outlined in physician education materials, and consider 
neurological referral if they occur. If PML is suspected, treatment with vedolizumab must be withheld; 
if confirmed, treatment must be permanently discontinued. 
Malignancies 
The risk of malignancy is increased in patients with ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease. 
Immunomodulatory medicinal products may increase the risk of malignancy (see section 4.8). 
Prior and concurrent use of biological products 
No vedolizumab clinical trial data are available for patients previously treated with natalizumab or 
rituximab. Caution should be exercised when considering the use of vedolizumab in these patients. 
Patients previously exposed to natalizumab should normally wait a minimum of 12 weeks prior to 
initiating therapy with vedolizumab, unless otherwise indicated by the patient’s clinical condition. 
No clinical trial data for concomitant use of vedolizumab with biologic immunosuppressants are 
available. Therefore, the use of vedolizumab in such patients is not recommended. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Live and oral vaccines 
In a placebo-controlled study of healthy volunteers, a single 750 mg dose of vedolizumab did not 
lower rates of protective immunity to hepatitis B virus in subjects who were vaccinated 
intramuscularly with 3 doses of recombinant hepatitis B surface antigen. Vedolizumab-exposed 
subjects had lower seroconversion rates after receiving a killed, oral cholera vaccine. The impact on 
other oral and nasal vaccines is unknown. It is recommended that all patients be brought up to date 
with all immunisations in agreement with current immunisation guidelines prior to initiating 
vedolizumab therapy. Patients receiving vedolizumab treatment may continue to receive non-live 
vaccines. There are no data on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients 
receiving vedolizumab. Administration of the influenza vaccine should be by injection in line with 
routine clinical practice. Other live vaccines may be administered concurrently with vedolizumab only 
if the benefits clearly outweigh the risks. 
Induction of remission in Crohn’s disease 
Induction of remission in Crohn’s disease may take up to 14 weeks in some patients. The reasons for 
this are not fully known and are possibly related to the mechanism of action. This should be taken into 
consideration, particularly in patients with severe active disease at baseline not previously treated with 
TNFα antagonists. (see also section 5.1.) 
Exploratory subgroup analyses from the clinical trials in Crohn’s disease suggested that vedolizumab 
administered in patients without concomitant corticosteroid treatment may be less effective for 
induction of remission in Crohn’s disease than in those patients already receiving concomitant 
corticosteroids (regardless of use of concomitant immunomodulators; see section 5.1). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. 
Vedolizumab has been studied in adult ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease patients with 
concomitant administration of corticosteroids, immunomodulators (azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine, 
and methotrexate), and aminosalicylates. Population pharmacokinetic analyses suggest that 
co-administration of such agents did not have a clinically meaningful effect on vedolizumab 
pharmacokinetics.  
In adult patients with pouchitis, vedolizumab has been co-administered with antibiotics (see section 
5.1). The pharmacokinetics of vedolizumab in patients with pouchitis has not been studied (see section 
5.2).  
The effect of vedolizumab on the pharmacokinetics of commonly co-administered medicinal 
compounds has not been studied. 
Vaccinations 
Live vaccines, in particular live oral vaccines, should be used with caution concurrently with 
vedolizumab (see section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should use adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and to 
continue its use for at least 18 weeks after the last treatment. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy 
There are limited amount of data from the use of vedolizumab in pregnant women. 
Animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity 
(see section 5.3). 
As a precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid the use of vedolizumab during pregnancy unless 
the benefits clearly outweigh any potential risk to both the mother and foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
Vedolizumab has been detected in human milk. The effect of vedolizumab on breast-fed infants, and 
the effects on milk production are unknown. In a milk-only lactation study assessing the concentration 
of vedolizumab in breast milk of lactating women with active ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease 
receiving vedolizumab, the concentration of vedolizumab in human breast milk was approximately 
0.4% to 2.2% of the maternal serum concentration obtained from historical studies of vedolizumab. 
The estimated average daily dose of vedolizumab ingested by the infant was 0.02 mg/kg/day, which is 
approximately 21% of the body weight-adjusted average maternal daily dose.  
The use of vedolizumab in lactating women should take into account the benefit of therapy to the 
mother and potential risks to the infant. 
Fertility 
There are no data on the effects of vedolizumab on human fertility. Effects on male and female 
fertility have not been formally evaluated in animal studies (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Vedolizumab has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines, as dizziness has been 
reported in a small number of patients. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are infections (such as nasopharyngitis, upper 
respiratory tract infection, bronchitis, influenza and sinusitis), headache, nausea, pyrexia, fatigue, 
cough, arthralgia. 
Infusion related reactions (with symptoms such as dyspnea, bronchospasm, urticaria, flushing, rash, 
and increased blood pressure and heart rate) have also been reported in patients treated with 
vedolizumab.  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following listing of adverse reactions is based on clinical trial and post marketing experience and 
is displayed by system organ class. Within the system organ classes, adverse reactions are listed under 
headings of the following frequency categories: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), 
uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), very rare (< 1/10,000) and not known (cannot be estimated from 
the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of 
decreasing seriousness. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Adverse reactions 
System organ class 
Infections and infestations 
Frequency 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Immune system disorders 
Very rare 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Common 
Not known  
Common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Common 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Common 
*Reported in the EARNEST pouchitis study 
Uncommon 
8 
Adverse reaction(s) 
Nasopharyngitis 
Pneumonia, 
Clostridium difficile infection,  
Bronchitis,  
Gastroenteritis,  
Upper respiratory tract infection,  
Influenza,  
Sinusitis,  
Pharyngitis, 
Herpes zoster 
Respiratory tract infection,  
Vulvovaginal candidiasis,  
Oral candidiasis 
Anaphylactic reaction,  
Anaphylactic shock 
Headache 
Paraesthesia 
Blurred vision 
Hypertension 
Oropharyngeal pain,  
Nasal congestion,  
Cough 
Interstitial lung disease 
Anal Abscess,  
Anal fissure,  
Nausea,  
Dyspepsia,  
Constipation,  
Abdominal distension,  
Flatulence,  
Haemorrhoids, 
Rectal haemorrhage* 
Rash,  
Pruritus,  
Eczema,  
Erythema,  
Night sweats,  
Acne 
Folliculitis 
Arthralgia 
Muscle spasms,  
Back pain,  
Muscular weakness,  
Fatigue,  
Pain in the extremity 
Pyrexia, 
Infusion related reaction (asthenia* and chest 
discomfort*), 
Infusion site reaction (including: Infusion site 
pain and Infusion site irritation) 
Chills,  
Feeling cold 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Infusion-related reactions 
In GEMINI 1 and 2 controlled studies (ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease), 4% of intravenous 
vedolizumab-treated patients and 3% of placebo-treated patients experienced an adverse reaction 
defined by the investigator as infusion-related reaction (IRR) (see section 4.4). No individual Preferred 
Term reported as an IRR occurred at a rate above 1%. The majority of IRRs were mild or moderate in 
intensity and < 1% resulted in discontinuation of study treatment. Observed IRRs generally resolved 
with no or minimal intervention following the infusion. Most infusion related reactions occurred 
within the first 2 hours. Of those patients who had infusion related reactions, those dosed with 
intravenous vedolizumab had more infusion related reactions with in the first 2 hours as compared to 
placebo patients with infusion related reactions. Most infusion related reactions were not serious and 
occurred during the infusion or within the first hour after infusion is completed. 
One serious adverse reaction of IRR was reported in a Crohn’s disease patient during the second 
infusion (symptoms reported were dyspnoea, bronchospasm, urticaria, flushing, rash, and increased 
blood pressure and heart rate) and was successfully managed with discontinuation of infusion and 
treatment with antihistamine and intravenous hydrocortisone. In patients who received intravenous 
vedolizumab at weeks 0 and 2 followed by placebo, no increase in the rate of IRR was seen upon 
retreatment with intravenous vedolizumab after loss of response. 
In EARNEST controlled study (pouchitis) with intravenous vedolizumab, hypersensitivity reactions, 
including IRRs, were reported in 3 out of 51 subjects (5.9%) in the vedolizumab group and 2 out of 51 
subjects (3.9%) in the placebo group. The individual Preferred Terms included mouth ulceration, 
swelling, oedema peripheral, chest discomfort, asthenia, acute kidney injury, obstructive airway 
disorder and flushing. All events were reported as mild to moderate in intensity, none were considered 
serious and none resulted in study discontinuation. 
Infections 
In GEMINI 1 and 2 controlled studies (ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease) with intravenous 
vedolizumab, the rate of infections was 0.85 per patient-year in the vedolizumab-treated patients 
and 0.70 per patient-year in the placebo-treated patients. The infections consisted primarily of 
nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, sinusitis, and urinary tract infections. Most patients 
continued on vedolizumab after the infection resolved. 
In GEMINI 1 and 2 controlled studies with intravenous vedolizumab, the rate of serious infections was 
0.07 per patient year in vedolizumab-treated patients and 0.06 per patient year in placebo-treated 
patients. Over time, there was no significant increase in the rate of serious infections. 
In the EARNEST controlled study (pouchitis) with intravenous vedolizumab, only 1 out of 51 subjects 
(2.0%) in the vedolizumab group experienced a serious infection of gastroenteritis. The subject was 
hospitalized for observation, recovered from the event and completed the study. 
In controlled and open-label studies (ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease) in adults with intravenous 
vedolizumab, serious infections have been reported, which include tuberculosis, sepsis (some fatal), 
salmonella sepsis, listeria meningitis, and cytomegaloviral colitis. 
In clinical studies with intravenous vedolizumab (ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease), the rate of 
infections in vedolizumab-treated patients with BMI of 30 kg/m2 and above was higher than for those 
with BMI less than 30 kg/m2. 
In clinical studies with intravenous vedolizumab (ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease), a slightly 
higher incidence of serious infections was reported in vedolizumab-treated patients who had prior 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
exposure to TNFα antagonist therapy compared to patients who were naïve to previous TNFα 
antagonist therapy. 
Malignancy 
Overall, results from the clinical program to date do not suggest an increased risk for malignancy with 
vedolizumab treatment; however, the number of malignancies was small and long-term exposure was 
limited. Long-term safety evaluations are ongoing. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Doses up to 10 mg/kg (approximately 2.5 times the recommended dose) have been administered 
intravenously in clinical trials. No dose-limiting toxicity was seen in clinical trials. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: immunosuppressants, selective immunosuppressants, ATC code: 
L04AA33. 
Mechanism of action 
Vedolizumab is a gut-selective immunosuppressive biologic. It is a humanised monoclonal antibody 
that binds specifically to the α4β7 integrin, which is preferentially expressed on gut homing T helper 
lymphocytes. By binding to α4β7 on certain lymphocytes, vedolizumab inhibits adhesion of these cells 
to mucosal addressin cell adhesion molecule-1 (MAdCAM-1), but not to vascular cell adhesion 
molecule-1 (VCAM-1). MAdCAM-1 is mainly expressed on gut endothelial cells and plays a critical 
role in the homing of T lymphocytes to tissues within the gastrointestinal tract. Vedolizumab does not 
bind to, nor inhibit function of, the α4β1 and αEβ7 integrins. 
The α4β7 integrin is expressed on a discrete subset of memory T helper lymphocytes which 
preferentially migrate into the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and cause inflammation that is characteristic 
of ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease, both of which are chronic inflammatory immunologically 
mediated conditions of the GI tract. Vedolizumab reduces gastrointestinal inflammation in UC,  CD 
and pouchitis patients. Inhibiting the interaction of α4β7 with MAdCAM-1 with vedolizumab prevents 
transmigration of gut-homing memory T helper lymphocytes across the vascular endothelium into 
parenchymal tissue in nonhuman primates and induced a reversible 3-fold elevation of these cells in 
peripheral blood. The murine precursor of vedolizumab alleviated gastrointestinal inflammation in 
colitic cotton-top tamarins, a model of ulcerative colitis. 
In healthy subjects, ulcerative colitis patients, or Crohn’s disease patients, vedolizumab does not 
elevate neutrophils, basophils, eosinophils, B-helper and cytotoxic T lymphocytes, total memory T 
helper lymphocytes, monocytes or natural killer cells, in the peripheral blood with no leukocytosis 
observed. 
Vedolizumab did not affect immune surveillance and inflammation of the central nervous system in 
Experimental Autoimmune Encephalomyelitis in non-human primates, a model of multiple sclerosis. 
Vedolizumab did not affect immune responses to antigenic challenge in the dermis and muscle (see 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
section 4.4). In contrast, vedolizumab inhibited an immune response to a gastrointestinal antigenic 
challenge in healthy human volunteers (see section 4.4). 
Immunogenicity 
Antibodies to vedolizumab may develop during vedolizumab treatment most of which are neutralising. 
The formation of anti-vedolizumab antibodies is associated with increased clearance of vedolizumab 
and lower rates of clinical remission.  
Infusion related reactions after vedolizumab infusion are reported in subjects with anti-vedolizumab 
antibodies.  
Pharmacodynamic effects 
In clinical trials with intravenous vedolizumab at doses ranging from 2 to 10 mg/kg, > 95% saturation 
of α4β7 receptors on subsets of circulating lymphocytes involved in gut immune surveillance was 
observed in patients. 
Vedolizumab did not affect CD4+ and CD8+ trafficking into the CNS as evidenced by the lack of 
change in the ratio of CD4+/CD8+ in cerebrospinal fluid pre- and post-vedolizumab administration in 
healthy human volunteers. These data are consistent with investigations in nonhuman primates which 
did not detect effects on immune surveillance of the CNS. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Ulcerative colitis 
The efficacy and safety of intravenous vedolizumab for the treatment of adult patients with moderately 
to severely active ulcerative colitis (Mayo score 6 to 12 with endoscopic sub score ≥ 2) was 
demonstrated in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluating efficacy endpoints at 
week 6 and week 52 (GEMINI 1). Enrolled patients had failed at least one conventional therapy, 
including corticosteroids, immunomodulators, and/or the TNFα antagonist infliximab (including 
primary non-responders). Concomitant stable doses of oral aminosalicylates, corticosteroids and/or 
immunomodulators were permitted.  
For the evaluation of the week 6 endpoints, 374 patients were randomised in a double-blind fashion 
(3:2) to receive vedolizumab 300 mg or placebo at week 0 and week 2. Primary endpoint was the 
proportion of patients with clinical response (defined as reduction in complete Mayo score of 
≥ 3 points and ≥ 30% from baseline with an accompanying decrease in rectal bleeding subscore of 
≥ 1 point or absolute rectal bleeding subscore of ≤ 1 point) at week 6. Table 2 shows the results from 
the primary and secondary endpoints evaluated. 
Table 2. Week 6 efficacy results of GEMINI 1 
Endpoint 
Placebo 
n = 149 
Vedolizumab IV 
n = 225 
26% 
5% 
Clinical response 
Clinical remission§ 
Mucosal healing¶ 
*p < 0.0001 
†p ≤ 0.001 
‡p < 0.05 
§Clinical remission: Complete Mayo score of ≤ 2 points and no individual subscore > 1 point 
¶Mucosal healing: Mayo endoscopic subscore of ≤ 1 point 
47%* 
17%† 
41%‡ 
25% 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The beneficial effect of vedolizumab on clinical response, remission and mucosal healing was 
observed both in patients with no prior TNFα antagonist exposure as well as in those who had failed 
prior TNFα antagonist therapy. 
In GEMINI 1, 2 cohorts of patients received vedolizumab at week 0 and week 2: cohort 1 patients 
were randomised to receive either vedolizumab 300 mg or placebo in a double-blind fashion, and 
cohort 2 patients were treated with open-label vedolizumab 300 mg. To evaluate efficacy at week 52, 
373 patients from cohort 1 and 2 who were treated with vedolizumab and had achieved clinical 
response at week 6 were randomised in a double-blind fashion (1:1:1) to one of the following 
regimens beginning at week 6: vedolizumab 300 mg every 8 weeks, vedolizumab 300 mg every 
4 weeks, or placebo every 4 weeks. Beginning at week 6, patients who had achieved clinical response 
and were receiving corticosteroids were required to begin a corticosteroid-tapering regimen. Primary 
endpoint was the proportion of patients in clinical remission at week 52. Table 3 shows the results 
from the primary and secondary endpoints evaluated. 
Table 3. Week 52 efficacy results of GEMINI 1 
Endpoint 
Clinical remission 
Durable clinical response¶ 
Mucosal healing 
Durable clinical remission# 
Corticosteroid-free clinical remission♠ 
*The placebo group includes those subjects who received vedolizumab at week 0 and week 2, and were 
14% 
20% 
9% 
Vedolizumab IV 
every 8 weeks 
n = 122 
42%† 
57%† 
52%† 
20%§ 
31%§ 
Vedolizumab IV 
every 4 weeks 
n = 125 
45%† 
52%† 
56%† 
24%‡ 
45%† 
Placebo 
n = 126* 
16% 
24% 
randomised to receive placebo from week 6 through week 52. 
†p < 0.0001 
‡p < 0.001 
§p < 0.05 
¶Durable clinical response: Clinical response at weeks 6 and 52 
#Durable clinical remission: Clinical remission at weeks 6 and 52 
♠Corticosteroid-free clinical remission: Patients using oral corticosteroids at baseline who had discontinued 
corticosteroids beginning at week 6 and were in clinical remission at week 52. Patient numbers were n = 72 
for placebo, n = 70 for vedolizumab every 8 weeks, and n = 73 for vedolizumab every 4 weeks 
Exploratory analyses provide additional data on key subpopulations studied. Approximately one-third 
of patients had failed prior TNFα antagonist therapy. Among these patients, 37% receiving 
vedolizumab every 8 weeks, 35% receiving vedolizumab every 4 weeks, and 5% receiving placebo 
achieved clinical remission at week 52. Improvements in durable clinical response (47%, 43%, 16%), 
mucosal healing (42%, 48%, 8%), durable clinical remission (21%, 13%, 3%) and corticosteroid-free 
clinical remission (23%, 32%, 4%) were seen in the prior TNFα antagonist failure population treated 
with vedolizumab every 8 weeks, vedolizumab every 4 weeks and placebo, respectively. 
Patients who failed to demonstrate response at week 6 remained in the study and received 
vedolizumab every 4 weeks. Clinical response using partial Mayo scores was achieved at week 10 and 
week 14 by greater proportions of vedolizumab patients (32% and 39%, respectively) compared with 
placebo patients (15% and 21%, respectively). 
Patients who lost response to vedolizumab when treated every 8 weeks were allowed to enter an 
open-label extension study and receive vedolizumab every 4 weeks. In these patients, clinical 
remission was achieved in 25% of patients at week 28 and week 52. 
Patients who achieved a clinical response after receiving vedolizumab at week 0 and 2 and were then 
randomised to placebo (for 6 to 52 weeks) and lost response were allowed to enter the open-label 
extension study and receive vedolizumab every 4 weeks. In these patients, clinical remission was 
achieved in 45% of patients by 28 weeks and 36% of patients by 52 weeks. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this open-label extension study, the benefits of vedolizumab treatment as assessed by partial Mayo 
score, clinical remission, and clinical response were shown for up to 196 weeks. 
Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) was assessed by Inflammatory Bowel Disease Questionnaire 
(IBDQ), a disease specific instrument, and SF-36 and EQ-5D, which are generic measures. 
Exploratory analysis show clinically meaningful improvements were observed for vedolizumab 
groups, and the improvements were significantly greater as compared with the placebo group at 
week 6 and week 52 on EQ-5D and EQ-5D VAS scores, all subscales of IBDQ (bowel symptoms, 
systemic function, emotional function and social function), and all subscales of SF-36 including the 
Physical Component Summary (PCS) and Mental Component Summary (MCS).  
Crohn’s disease 
The efficacy and safety of intravenous vedolizumab for the treatment of adult patients with moderately 
to severely active Crohn’s disease (Crohn’s Disease Activity Index [CDAI] score of 220 to 450) were 
evaluated in 2 studies (GEMINI 2 and 3). Enrolled patients have failed at least one conventional 
therapy, including corticosteroids, immunomodulators, and/or TNFα antagonists (including primary 
non-responders). Concomitant stable doses of oral corticosteroids, immunomodulators, and antibiotics 
were permitted. 
The GEMINI 2 Study was a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluating efficacy 
endpoints at week 6 and week 52. Patients (n = 368) were randomised in a double-blind fashion (3:2) 
to receive 2 doses of vedolizumab 300 mg or placebo at week 0 and week 2. The 2 primary endpoints 
were the proportion of patients in clinical remission (defined as CDAI score ≤ 150 points) at week 6 
and the proportion of patients with enhanced clinical response (defined as a ≥ 100-point decrease in 
CDAI score from baseline) at week 6 (see Table 4).  
GEMINI 2 contained 2 cohorts of patients that received vedolizumab at weeks 0 and 2: 
cohort 1 patients were randomised to receive either vedolizumab 300 mg or placebo in a double-blind 
fashion, and cohort 2 patients were treated with open-label vedolizumab 300 mg. To evaluate efficacy 
at week 52, 461 patients from cohorts 1 and 2, who were treated with vedolizumab and had achieved 
clinical response (defined as a ≥ 70-point decrease in CDAI score from baseline) at week 6, were 
randomised in a double-blind fashion (1:1:1) to one of the following regimens beginning at week 6: 
vedolizumab 300 mg every 8 weeks, vedolizumab 300 mg every 4 weeks, or placebo every 4 weeks. 
Patients showing clinical response at week 6 were required to begin corticosteroid tapering. Primary 
endpoint was the proportion of patients in clinical remission at week 52 (see Table 5). 
The GEMINI 3 Study was a second randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study that evaluated 
efficacy at week 6 and week 10 in the subgroup of patients defined as having failed at least 
1 conventional therapy and failed TNFα antagonist therapy (including primary non-responders) as 
well as the overall population, which also included patients who failed at least 1 conventional therapy 
and were naïve to TNFα antagonist therapy. Patients (n = 416), which included approximately 75% 
TNFα antagonist failures patients, were randomised in a double-blind fashion (1:1) to receive either 
vedolizumab 300 mg or placebo at weeks 0, 2, and 6. The primary endpoint was the proportion of 
patients in clinical remission at week 6 in the TNFα antagonist failure subpopulation. As noted in 
Table 4, although the primary endpoint was not met, exploratory analyses show that clinically 
meaningful results were observed.  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4. Efficacy results for GEMINI 2 and 3 studies at week 6 and week 10 
Study 
Endpoint 
GEMINI 2 Study 
Clinical remission, week 6 
Overall 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Failure 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Naïve 
Enhanced clinical response, week 6 
Overall 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Failure 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Naïve 
Serum CRP change from baseline to week 6, 
median (mcg/mL) 
Overall‡ 
GEMINI 3 Study 
Clinical remission, week 6 
Overall‡ 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Failure¶ 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Naïve 
Clinical remission, week 10 
Overall 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Failure¶,‡ 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Naïve 
Sustained clinical remission#,¶ 
Overall 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Failure¶,‡ 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Naïve 
Enhanced clinical response, week 6  
Overall^ 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Failure‡ 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Naïve^ 
Placebo 
Vedolizumab IV 
7% (n = 148) 
15%* (n = 220) 
4% (n = 70) 
9% (n = 76) 
11% (n = 105) 
17% (n = 109) 
26% (n = 148) 
31%† (n = 220) 
23% (n = 70) 
30% (n = 76) 
24% (n = 105) 
42% (n = 109) 
-0.5 (n = 147) 
-0.9 (n = 220) 
12% (n = 207) 
12% (n = 157) 
12% (n = 50) 
13% (n = 207) 
12% (n = 157) 
16% (n = 50) 
8% (n = 207) 
8% (n = 157) 
8% (n = 50) 
19% (n = 209) 
15%§ (n = 158) 
31% (n = 51) 
29% (n = 209) 
27% (n = 158) 
35% (n = 51) 
15% (n = 209) 
12% (n = 158) 
26% (n = 51) 
23% (n = 207) 
22% (n = 157) 
24% (n = 50) 
39% (n = 209) 
39% (n = 158) 
39% (n = 51) 
*p < 0.05 
†not statistically significant 
‡secondary endpoint to be viewed as exploratory by pre-specified statistical testing procedure 
§not statistically significant, the other endpoints were therefore not tested statistically 
¶n = 157 for placebo and n = 158 for vedolizumab 
#Sustained clinical remission: clinical remission at weeks 6 and 10 
^Exploratory Endpoint 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5. Efficacy results for GEMINI 2 at week 52 
Clinical remission 
Enhanced clinical response 
Corticosteroid-free clinical remission§ 
Durable clinical remission¶ 
Placebo 
n = 153* 
22% 
30% 
16% 
14% 
Vedolizumab IV 
every 8 weeks 
n = 154 
39%† 
44%‡ 
32%‡ 
Vedolizumab IV 
every 4 weeks 
n = 154 
36%‡ 
45%‡ 
29%‡ 
21% 
16% 
*The placebo group includes those subjects who received vedolizumab at week 0 and week 2, and were 
randomised to receive placebo from week 6 through week 52. 
†p < 0.001 
‡p < 0.05 
§Corticosteroid-free clinical remission: Patients using oral corticosteroids at baseline who had discontinued 
corticosteroids beginning at week 6 and were in clinical remission at week 52. Patient numbers were n = 82 
for placebo, n = 82 for vedolizumab every 8 weeks, and n = 80 for vedolizumab every 4 weeks  
¶Durable clinical remission: Clinical remission at ≥ 80% of study visits including final visit (week 52) 
Exploratory analyses examined the effects of concomitant corticosteroids and immunomodulators on 
induction of remission with vedolizumab. Combination treatment, most notably with concomitant 
corticosteroids, appeared to be more effective in inducing remission in Crohn’s disease than 
vedolizumab alone or with concomitant immunomodulators, which showed a smaller difference from 
placebo in the rate of remission. Clinical remission rate in GEMINI 2 at week 6 was 10% (difference 
from placebo 2%, 95% CI: -6, 10) when administered without corticosteroids compared to 20% 
(difference from placebo 14%, 95% CI: -1, 29) when administered with concomitant corticosteroids. 
In GEMINI 3 at week 6 and 10 the respective clinical remission rates were 18% (difference from 
placebo 3%, 95% CI: -7, 13) and 22% (difference from placebo 8%, 95% CI: -3, 19) when 
administered without corticosteroids compared to 20% (difference from placebo 11%, 95% CI: 2, 20) 
and 35% (difference from placebo 23%, 95% CI: 12, 33) respectively when administered with 
concomitant corticosteroids. These effects were seen whether or not immunomodulators were also 
concomitantly administered. 
Exploratory analyses provide additional data on key subpopulations studied. In GEMINI 2, 
approximately half of patients had previously failed TNFα antagonist therapy. Among these patients, 
28% receiving vedolizumab every 8 weeks, 27% receiving vedolizumab every 4 weeks, and 13% 
receiving placebo achieved clinical remission at week 52. Enhanced clinical response was achieved in 
29%, 38%, 21%, respectively, and corticosteroid-free clinical remission was achieved in 24%, 16%, 
0%, respectively.  
Patients who failed to demonstrate response at week 6 in GEMINI 2 were retained in the study and 
received vedolizumab every 4 weeks. Enhanced clinical response was observed at week 10 and 
week 14 for greater proportions of vedolizumab patients 16% and 22%, respectively, compared with 
placebo patients 7% and 12%, respectively. There was no clinically meaningful difference in clinical 
remission between treatment groups at these time points. Analyses of week 52 clinical remission in 
patients who were non-responders at week 6 but achieved response at week 10 or week 14 indicate 
that non-responder CD patients may benefit from a dose of vedolizumab at week 10. 
Patients who lost response to vedolizumab when treated every 8 weeks in GEMINI 2 were allowed to 
enter an open-label extension study and received vedolizumab every 4 weeks. In these patients, 
clinical remission was achieved in 23% of patients at week 28 and 32% of patients at week 52. 
Patients who achieved a clinical response after receiving vedolizumab at week 0 and 2 and were then 
randomised to placebo (for 6 to 52 weeks) and lost response were allowed to enter the open-label 
extension study and receive vedolizumab every 4 weeks. In these patients, clinical remission was 
achieved in 46% of patients by 28 weeks and 41% of patients by 52 weeks. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this open-label extension study, clinical remission and clinical response were observed in patients 
for up to 196 weeks. 
Exploratory analysis showed clinically meaningful improvements were observed for the vedolizumab 
every 4 weeks and every 8 weeks groups in GEMINI 2 and the improvements were significantly 
greater as compared with the placebo group from baseline to week 52 on EQ-5D and EQ-5D VAS 
scores, total IBDQ score, and IBDQ subscales of bowel symptoms and systemic function. 
Pouchitis 
The efficacy and safety of intravenous vedolizumab for the treatment of adult patients with chronic 
pouchitis were demonstrated in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluating 
efficacy at week 14 and week 34 (EARNEST). Enrolled patients had undergone proctocolectomy and 
ileal pouch anal anastomosis (IPAA) for ulcerative colitis at least one year prior to randomisation and 
had developed active chronic pouchitis (defined as antibiotic-dependent (recurrent) or antibiotic-
refractory), with a baseline modified Pouchitis Disease Activity Index (mPDAI) score ≥ 5 and 
endoscopic subscore ≥ 2. All patients received concomitant antibiotic treatment with ciprofloxacin 
500 mg twice daily from the start of treatment through week 4. Patients received additional courses of 
antibiotics during the study as needed, including for pouchitis flares. 
Patients (n=102) were randomised (1:1) to receive either intravenous vedolizumab 300 mg or 
intravenous placebo at 0, 2 and 6 weeks, and every 8 weeks thereafter, until week 30. The primary 
endpoint was clinical remission (defined as an mPDAI score < 5 and a reduction in total mPDAI score 
of ≥ 2 points from baseline) at week 14. Table 6 shows the results from the primary and secondary 
endpoints at week 14 and Table 7 shows the results from secondary endpoints at week 34. 
Table 6. Efficacy results for EARNEST at week 14 
Endpoint 
Placebo 
n = 51 
Vedolizumab IV 
n = 51 
Difference 
Vedolizumab-Placebo (95% CI) 
[percentage points] 
9.8% 
9.8% 
Clinical remission* 
PDAI remission‡  
Clinical response§ 
*Clinical remission is defined as mPDAI score < 5 and a reduction in total mPDAI score of ≥ 2 points from 
baseline 
†p < 0.05 
‡PDAI remission is defined as PDAI score < 7 and a reduction in PDAI score of ≥ 3 points from baseline 
§Clinical response is defined as reduction of mPDAI score of ≥ 2 points from baseline 
31.4%† 
35.3% 
21.6 (4.9, 37.5) 
29.4 (8.0, 47.6) 
25.5 (8.0, 41.4) 
33.3% 
62.7% 
Table 7. Efficacy results for EARNEST at week 34 
Endpoint 
Placebo 
n = 51 
Vedolizumab IV 
n = 51 
Difference 
Vedolizumab-Placebo (95% CI) 
[percentage points] 
35.3% 
17.6% 
Clinical remission* 
PDAI remission‡ 
Clinical response§ 
*Clinical remission is defined as mPDAI score < 5 and reduction in total mPDAI score of ≥ 2 points from 
baseline 
‡ PDAI remission is defined as PDAI score < 7 and a reduction in PDAI score of ≥ 3 points from baseline  
§Clinical response is defined as reduction of mPDAI score of ≥ 2 points from baseline 
21.6 (1.9, 39.8) 
17.6 (0.3, 35.1) 
19.6 (1.9, 37.0) 
29.4% 
51.0% 
17.6% 
37.3% 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Approximately two-thirds of patients had received prior (for UC or pouchitis) TNF α antagonist 
therapy (33 in vedolizumab and 31 in placebo treatment groups). Among these patients, 33.3% in the 
vedolizumab group achieved clinical remission at W14 compared with 9.7% in the placebo group. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
vedolizumab in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease 
and pouchitis (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The single and multiple dose pharmacokinetics of vedolizumab have been studied in healthy subjects 
and in patients with moderate to severely active ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease. The 
pharmacokinetics of vedolizumab has not been studied in patients with pouchitis but is expected to be 
similar to that in patients with moderate to severely active ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease. 
In patients administered 300 mg vedolizumab as a 30 minute intravenous infusion on weeks 0 and 2, 
mean serum trough concentrations at week 6 were 27.9 mcg/mL (SD ± 15.51) in ulcerative colitis 
and 26.8 mcg/mL (SD ± 17.45) in Crohn’s disease. In studies with intravenous vedolizumab, starting 
at week 6, patients received 300 mg intravenous vedolizumab every 8 or 4 weeks. In patients with 
ulcerative colitis, mean steady-state serum trough concentrations were 11.2 mcg/mL (SD ± 7.24) 
and 38.3 mcg/mL (SD ± 24.43), respectively. In patients with Crohn's disease mean steady-state serum 
trough concentrations were 13.0 mcg/mL (SD ± 9.08) and 34.8 mcg/mL (SD ± 22.55), respectively. 
Distribution 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses indicate that the distribution volume of vedolizumab is 
approximately 5 litres. The plasma protein binding of vedolizumab has not been evaluated. 
Vedolizumab is a therapeutic monoclonal antibody and is not expected to bind to plasma proteins. 
Vedolizumab does not pass the blood brain barrier after intravenous administration. Vedolizumab 
450 mg administered intravenously was not detected in the cerebrospinal fluid of healthy subjects. 
Elimination 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses based on intravenous and subcutaneous data indicate that the 
clearance of vedolizumab is approximately 0. 162 L/day (through linear elimination pathway) and the 
serum half-life is 26 days. The exact elimination route of vedolizumab is not known. Population 
pharmacokinetic analyses suggest that while low albumin, higher body weight and prior treatment 
with anti-TNF drugs may increase vedolizumab clearance, the magnitude of their effects is not 
considered to be clinically relevant. 
Linearity 
Vedolizumab exhibited linear pharmacokinetics at serum concentrations greater than 1 mcg/mL. 
Special populations 
Age does not impact the vedolizumab clearance in ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease patients 
based on the population pharmacokinetic analyses. Age is not expected to impact the vedolizumab 
clearance in patients with pouchitis. No formal studies have been conducted to examine the effects of 
either renal or hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of vedolizumab. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential, toxicity to reproduction 
and development.  
Long-term animal studies with vedolizumab to assess its carcinogenic potential have not been 
conducted because pharmacologically responsive models to monoclonal antibodies do not exist. In a 
pharmacologically responsive species (cynomolgus monkeys), there was no evidence of cellular 
hyperplasia or systemic immunomodulation that could potentially be associated with oncogenesis in 
13- and 26-week toxicology studies. Furthermore, no effects were found of vedolizumab on the 
proliferative rate or cytotoxicity of a human tumour cell line expressing the α4β7 integrin in vitro. 
No specific fertility studies in animals have been performed with vedolizumab. No definitive 
conclusion can be drawn on the male reproductive organs in cynomolgus monkey repeated dose 
toxicity study. Given the lack of binding of vedolizumab to male reproductive tissue in monkey and 
human, and the intact male fertility observed in β7 integrin-knockout mice, it is not expected that 
vedolizumab will affect male fertility. 
Administration of vedolizumab to pregnant cynomolgus monkeys during most of gestation resulted in 
no evidence of effects on teratogenicity, prenatal or postnatal development in infants up to 6 months of 
age. Low levels (< 300 mcg/L) of vedolizumab were detected on post-partum day 28 in the milk of 3 
of 11 cynomolgus monkeys treated 100 mg/kg of vedolizumab dosed every 2 weeks and not in any 
animals that received 10 mg/kg.  
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
L-histidine 
L-histidine monohydrochloride 
L-arginine hydrochloride 
Sucrose 
Polysorbate 80 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
In-use stability of the reconstituted solution in the vial has been demonstrated for 8 hours at 2°C-8°C. 
In-use stability of the diluted solution in sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection in 
infusion bag has been demonstrated for 12 hours at 20°C-25°C or 24 hours at 2°C-8°C. 
The combined in-use stability of vedolizumab in the vial and infusion bag with sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection is a total of 12 hours at 20°C-25°C or 24 hours at 2°C-8°C. A 
24 hour period may include up to 8 hours at 2°C-8°C for reconstituted solution in the vial and up to 
12 hours at 20°C-25°C for diluted solution in the infusion bag but the infusion bag must be stored in 
the refrigerator (2°C-8°C) for the rest of the 24 hour period. 
Do not freeze the reconstituted solution in the vial or the diluted solution in the infusion bag.  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconstituted solution in the vial 
Diluted solution in sodium chloride 9 mg/mL 
(0.9%) solution for injection 
Storage condition 
Refrigerator (2°C-8°C) 
8 hours 
24 hours2,3 
20°C-25°C 
Do not hold1 
12 hours2 
1 Up to 30 minutes are allowed for reconstitution 
2 This time assumes the reconstituted solution is immediately diluted in the sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) 
solution for injection and held in the infusion bag only. Any time that the reconstituted solution was held in the 
vial should be subtracted from the time the solution may be held in the infusion bag. 
3 This period may include up to 12 hours at 20 °C-25 °C. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C-8 °C). Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion in Type 1 glass vial (20 mL) fitted with rubber 
stopper and aluminium crimp protected by a plastic cap. 
Each pack contains 1 vial. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Instructions for reconstitution and infusion 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
Use aseptic technique when preparing Entyvio solution for intravenous infusion.  
Remove flip-off cap from the vial and wipe with alcohol swab. Reconstitute vedolizumab with 
4.8 mL of sterile water for injections at room temperature (20 °C-25 °C), using a syringe with a 
21-25 gauge needle. 
Insert the needle into the vial through the centre of the stopper and direct the stream of liquid to 
the wall of the vial to avoid excessive foaming. 
Gently swirl the vial for at least 15 seconds. Do not vigorously shake or invert. 
Let the vial sit for up to 20 minutes at room temperature (20 °C-25 °C), to allow for 
reconstitution and for any foam to settle; the vial can be swirled and inspected for dissolution 
during this time. If not fully dissolved after 20 minutes, allow another 10 minutes for 
dissolution. 
Inspect the reconstituted solution visually for particulate matter and discolouration prior to 
dilution. Solution should be clear or opalescent, colourless to light yellow and free of visible 
particulates. Reconstituted solution with uncharacteristic colour or containing particulates must 
not be administered. 
Once dissolved, gently invert vial 3 times. 
Immediately withdraw 5 mL (300 mg) of reconstituted Entyvio using a syringe with a 
21-25 gauge needle. 
Add the 5 mL (300 mg) of reconstituted Entyvio to 250 mL of sterile sodium chloride 9 mg/mL 
(0.9%) solution for injection, and gently mix the infusion bag (5 mL of sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection does not have to be withdrawn from the infusion bag 
prior to adding Entyvio). Do not add other medicinal products to the prepared infusion solution 
or intravenous infusion set. Administer the infusion solution over 30 minutes (see section 4.2). 
Once reconstituted, the infusion solution should be used as soon as possible.  
Do not store any unused portion of the reconstituted solution or infusion solution for reuse. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each vial is for single use only.  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/923/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 22 May 2014 
Date of latest renewal: 12 December 2018 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen  
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 108 mg of vedolizumab in 0.68 mL. 
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Each pre-filled pen contains 108 mg of vedolizumab in 0.68 mL.  
Vedolizumab is a humanised IgG1 monoclonal antibody produced in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) 
cells by recombinant DNA technology. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection (injection). 
Colourless to yellow solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Ulcerative colitis 
Entyvio is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative 
colitis who have had an inadequate response with, lost response to, or were intolerant to either 
conventional therapy or a tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNFα) antagonist. 
Crohn’s disease 
Entyvio is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active Crohn’s 
disease who have had an inadequate response with, lost response to, or were intolerant to either 
conventional therapy or a tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNFα) antagonist. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist healthcare professionals experienced in the 
diagnosis and treatment of ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease (see section 4.4). Patients should be 
given the package leaflet. 
Posology 
Ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease 
The recommended dose regimen of subcutaneous vedolizumab as a maintenance treatment, following 
at least 2 intravenous infusions, is 108 mg administered by subcutaneous injection once every 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 weeks. The first subcutaneous dose should be administered in place of the next scheduled 
intravenous dose and every 2 weeks thereafter. 
For the intravenous dose regimen, see section 4.2 of the Entyvio 300 mg powder for concentrate for 
solution for infusion SmPC. 
Insufficient data are available to determine if patients who experience a decrease in response on 
maintenance treatment with subcutaneous vedolizumab would benefit from an increase in dosing 
frequency. 
There are no data on transition of patients from subcutaneous vedolizumab to intravenous 
vedolizumab during maintenance treatment. 
In patients who have responded to treatment with vedolizumab, corticosteroids may be reduced and/or 
discontinued in accordance with standard of care. 
Retreatment and missed dose(s) 
If treatment with subcutaneous vedolizumab is interrupted or if a patient misses a scheduled dose(s) of 
subcutaneous vedolizumab, patient should be advised to inject the next subcutaneous dose as soon as 
possible and then every 2 weeks thereafter. The treatment interruption period in clinical trials extended 
up to 46 weeks with no evident increase in adverse reactions or injection site reactions during 
re-initiation of treatment with subcutaneous vedolizumab (see section 4.8). 
Special populations 
Elderly patients 
No dose adjustment is required in elderly patients. Population pharmacokinetic analyses showed no 
effect of age (see section 5.2). 
Patients with renal or hepatic impairment 
Vedolizumab has not been studied in these patient populations. No dose recommendations can be 
made. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of vedolizumab in children aged 0 to 17 years old have not been established. 
No data are available. 
Method of administration 
Entyvio solution for injection (in a pre-filled syringe or a pre-filled pen) is for subcutaneous injection 
only. 
After proper training on correct subcutaneous injection technique, a patient or caregiver may inject 
with subcutaneous vedolizumab if their physician determines it is appropriate. Comprehensive 
instructions for administration using the pre-filled syringe or the pre-filled pen are given in the 
respective package leaflet. 
For further instructions on preparation and special precautions for handling, see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Active severe infections such as tuberculosis (TB), sepsis, cytomegalovirus, listeriosis, and 
opportunistic infections such as Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML) (see section 4.4). 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
In clinical studies, hypersensitivity reactions have been reported, with the majority being mild to 
moderate in severity (see section 4.8). 
If an anaphylactic reaction, or other severe reaction occurs, administration of vedolizumab must be 
discontinued immediately and appropriate treatment initiated (see section 4.3). 
Infections 
Vedolizumab is a gut-selective integrin antagonist with no identified systemic immunosuppressive 
activity (see section 5.1). 
Physicians should be aware of the potential increased risk of opportunistic infections or infections for 
which the gut is a defensive barrier (see section 4.8). Treatment is not to be initiated in patients with 
active, severe infections until the infections are controlled, and physicians should consider withholding 
treatment in patients who develop a severe infection while on chronic treatment with vedolizumab. 
Caution should be exercised when considering the use of vedolizumab in patients with a controlled 
chronic severe infection or a history of recurring severe infections. Patients should be monitored 
closely for infections before, during and after treatment. 
Vedolizumab is contraindicated in patients with active tuberculosis (see section 4.3). Before starting 
treatment with vedolizumab, patients must be screened for tuberculosis according to the local practice. 
If latent tuberculosis is diagnosed, appropriate treatment must be started with anti-tuberculosis 
treatment in accordance with local recommendations, before beginning vedolizumab. In patients 
diagnosed with TB whilst receiving vedolizumab therapy, then vedolizumab therapy should be 
discontinued until the TB infection has been resolved. 
Some integrin antagonists and some systemic immunosuppressive agents have been associated with 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), which is a rare and often fatal opportunistic 
infection caused by the John Cunningham (JC) virus. By binding to the α4β7 integrin expressed on 
gut-homing lymphocytes, vedolizumab exerts an immunosuppressive effect specific to the gut. 
Although no systemic immunosuppressive effect was noted in healthy subjects the effects on systemic 
immune system function in patients with inflammatory bowel disease is not known. 
Healthcare professionals should monitor patients on vedolizumab for any new onset or worsening of 
neurological signs and symptoms as outlined in physician education materials, and consider 
neurological referral if they occur. If PML is suspected, treatment with vedolizumab must be withheld; 
if confirmed, treatment must be permanently discontinued. 
Malignancies 
The risk of malignancy is increased in patients with ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease. 
Immunomodulatory medicinal products may increase the risk of malignancy (see section 4.8). 
Prior and concurrent use of biological products 
No vedolizumab clinical trial data are available for patients previously treated with natalizumab or 
rituximab. Caution should be exercised when considering the use of vedolizumab in these patients. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients previously exposed to natalizumab should normally wait a minimum of 12 weeks prior to 
initiating therapy with vedolizumab, unless otherwise indicated by the patient’s clinical condition. 
No clinical trial data for concomitant use of vedolizumab with biologic immunosuppressants are 
available. Therefore, the use of vedolizumab in such patients is not recommended. 
Live and oral vaccines 
In a placebo-controlled study of healthy volunteers, a single 750 mg dose of vedolizumab did not 
lower rates of protective immunity to hepatitis B virus in subjects who were vaccinated 
intramuscularly with 3 doses of recombinant hepatitis B surface antigen. Vedolizumab-exposed 
subjects had lower seroconversion rates after receiving a killed, oral cholera vaccine. The impact on 
other oral and nasal vaccines is unknown. It is recommended that all patients be brought up to date 
with all immunisations in agreement with current immunisation guidelines prior to initiating 
vedolizumab therapy. Patients receiving vedolizumab treatment may continue to receive non-live 
vaccines. There are no data on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in patients 
receiving vedolizumab. Administration of the influenza vaccine should be by injection in line with 
routine clinical practice. Other live vaccines may be administered concurrently with vedolizumab only 
if the benefits clearly outweigh the risks. 
Induction of remission in Crohn’s disease 
Induction of remission in Crohn’s disease may take up to 14 weeks in some patients. The reasons for 
this are not fully known and are possibly related to the mechanism of action. This should be taken into 
consideration, particularly in patients with severe active disease at baseline not previously treated with 
TNFα antagonists (see also section 5.1.). 
Exploratory subgroup analyses from the clinical trials in Crohn’s disease suggested that vedolizumab 
administered in patients without concomitant corticosteroid treatment may be less effective for 
induction of remission in Crohn’s disease than in those patients already receiving concomitant 
corticosteroids (regardless of use of concomitant immunomodulators; see section 5.1). 
Sodium content 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No interaction studies have been performed. 
Vedolizumab has been studied in adult ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease patients with 
concomitant administration of corticosteroids, immunomodulators (azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine, 
and methotrexate), and aminosalicylates. Population pharmacokinetic analyses suggest that 
co-administration of such agents did not have a clinically meaningful effect on vedolizumab 
pharmacokinetics. The effect of vedolizumab on the pharmacokinetics of commonly co-administered 
medicinal compounds has not been studied. 
Vaccinations 
Live vaccines, in particular live oral vaccines, should be used with caution concurrently with 
vedolizumab (see section 4.4). 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should use adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and to 
continue its use for at least 18 weeks after the last treatment. 
Pregnancy 
There are limited amount of data from the use of vedolizumab in pregnant women. 
Animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity 
(see section 5.3). 
As a precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid the use of vedolizumab during pregnancy unless 
the benefits clearly outweigh any potential risk to both the mother and foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
Vedolizumab has been detected in human milk. The effect of vedolizumab on breast-fed infants, and 
the effects on milk production are unknown. In a milk-only lactation study assessing the concentration 
of vedolizumab in breast milk of lactating women with active ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease 
receiving vedolizumab, the concentration of vedolizumab in human breast milk was approximately 
0.4% to 2.2% of the maternal serum concentration obtained from historical studies of vedolizumab. 
The estimated average daily dose of vedolizumab ingested by the infant was 0.02 mg/kg/day, which is 
approximately 21% of the body weight-adjusted average maternal daily dose.  
The use of vedolizumab in lactating women should take into account the benefit of therapy to the 
mother and potential risks to the infant. 
Fertility 
There are no data on the effects of vedolizumab on human fertility. Effects on male and female 
fertility have not been formally evaluated in animal studies (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Vedolizumab has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines, as dizziness has been 
reported in a small number of patients. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are infections (such as nasopharyngitis, upper 
respiratory tract infection, bronchitis, influenza and sinusitis), headache, nausea, pyrexia, fatigue, 
cough, arthralgia. 
No clinically relevant differences in the overall safety profile and adverse reactions were observed in 
patients who received subcutaneous vedolizumab compared to the safety profile observed in clinical 
studies with intravenous vedolizumab with the exception of injection site reactions (with subcutaneous 
administration).  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following listing of adverse reactions is based on clinical trial and post marketing experience and 
is displayed by system organ class. Within the system organ classes, adverse reactions are listed under 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
headings of the following frequency categories: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), 
uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), very rare (< 1/10,000) and not known (cannot be estimated from 
the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of 
decreasing seriousness. 
Adverse reaction(s) 
Nasopharyngitis 
Pneumonia, 
Clostridium difficile infection, 
Bronchitis,  
Gastroenteritis,  
Upper respiratory tract infection,  
Influenza,  
Sinusitis,  
Pharyngitis, 
Herpes zoster 
Respiratory tract infection,  
Vulvovaginal candidiasis,  
Oral candidiasis 
Anaphylactic reaction,  
Anaphylactic shock 
Headache 
Paraesthesia 
Blurred vision 
Hypertension 
Oropharyngeal pain,  
Nasal congestion,  
Cough 
Interstitial lung disease 
Anal Abscess,  
Anal fissure,  
Nausea,  
Dyspepsia,  
Constipation,  
Abdominal distension,  
Flatulence,  
Haemorrhoids 
Rash,  
Pruritus,  
Eczema,  
Erythema,  
Night sweats,  
Acne 
Folliculitis 
Table 1. Adverse reactions 
System organ class 
Infections and infestations 
Frequency 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Immune system disorders 
Very rare 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Common 
Not known 
Common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
26 
 
 
System organ class 
Musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders 
Frequency 
Very common 
Common 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Common 
Uncommon 
#Subcutaneous administration only. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Injection site reactions 
Adverse reaction(s) 
Arthralgia 
Muscle spasms,  
Back pain,  
Muscular weakness,  
Fatigue,  
Pain in the extremity 
Pyrexia, 
Infusion site reaction (including: Infusion site 
pain and Infusion site irritation),  
Infusion related reaction, 
Injection site reactions# 
Chills,  
Feeling cold 
Injection site reactions (including pain, oedema, erythema or pruritus) were reported in 5.1% of 
patients receiving subcutaneous vedolizumab (pooled safety analysis). None resulted in 
discontinuation of study treatment or changes to the dosing schedule. The majority of injection site 
reactions resolved within 1-4 days. There were no reports of anaphylaxis following subcutaneous 
vedolizumab administration. 
Infections 
In GEMINI 1 and 2 controlled studies with intravenous vedolizumab, the rate of infections was 
0.85 per patient-year in the vedolizumab-treated patients and 0.70 per patient-year in the 
placebo-treated patients. The infections consisted primarily of nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract 
infection, sinusitis, and urinary tract infections. Most patients continued on vedolizumab after the 
infection resolved. 
In GEMINI 1 and 2 controlled studies with intravenous vedolizumab, the rate of serious infections was 
0.07 per patient year in vedolizumab-treated patients and 0.06 per patient year in placebo-treated 
patients. Over time, there was no significant increase in the rate of serious infections. 
In controlled and open-label studies in adults with intravenous vedolizumab, serious infections have 
been reported, which include tuberculosis, sepsis (some fatal), salmonella sepsis, listeria meningitis, 
and cytomegaloviral colitis. 
In clinical studies with subcutaneous vedolizumab, the rate of infections was 0.26 per patient year in 
vedolizumab-treated patients. The most frequent infections were nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory 
tract infection, bronchitis and influenza. 
In clinical studies with subcutaneous vedolizumab, the rate of serious infections was 0.02 per patient 
year in subcutaneous vedolizumab-treated patients. 
In clinical studies with intravenous and subcutaneous vedolizumab, the rate of infections in 
vedolizumab-treated patients with BMI of 30 kg/m2 and above was higher than for those with BMI less 
than 30 kg/m2. 
In clinical studies with intravenous and subcutaneous vedolizumab, a slightly higher incidence of 
serious infections was reported in vedolizumab-treated patients who had prior exposure to TNFα 
antagonist therapy compared to patients who were naïve to previous TNFα antagonist therapy. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Malignancy 
Overall, results from the clinical program to date do not suggest an increased risk for malignancy with 
vedolizumab treatment; however, the number of malignancies was small and long-term exposure was 
limited. Long-term safety evaluations are ongoing. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Doses up to 10 mg/kg (approximately 2.5 times the recommended dose) have been administered 
intravenously in clinical trials. No dose-limiting toxicity was seen in clinical trials. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: immunosuppressants, selective immunosuppressants, ATC code: 
L04AA33. 
Mechanism of action 
Vedolizumab is a gut-selective immunosuppressive biologic. It is a humanised monoclonal antibody 
that binds specifically to the α4β7 integrin, which is preferentially expressed on gut homing T helper 
lymphocytes. By binding to α4β7 on certain lymphocytes, vedolizumab inhibits adhesion of these cells 
to mucosal addressin cell adhesion molecule-1 (MAdCAM-1), but not to vascular cell adhesion 
molecule-1 (VCAM-1). MAdCAM-1 is mainly expressed on gut endothelial cells and plays a critical 
role in the homing of T lymphocytes to tissues within the gastrointestinal tract. Vedolizumab does not 
bind to, nor inhibit function of, the α4β1 and αEβ7 integrins. 
The α4β7 integrin is expressed on a discrete subset of memory T helper lymphocytes which 
preferentially migrate into the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and cause inflammation that is characteristic 
of ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease, both of which are chronic inflammatory immunologically 
mediated conditions of the GI tract. Vedolizumab reduces gastrointestinal inflammation in UC and CD 
patients. Inhibiting the interaction of α4β7 with MAdCAM-1 with vedolizumab prevents transmigration 
of gut-homing memory T helper lymphocytes across the vascular endothelium into parenchymal tissue 
in nonhuman primates and induced a reversible 3-fold elevation of these cells in peripheral blood. The 
murine precursor of vedolizumab alleviated gastrointestinal inflammation in colitic cotton-top 
tamarins, a model of ulcerative colitis. 
In healthy subjects, ulcerative colitis patients, or Crohn’s disease patients, vedolizumab does not 
elevate neutrophils, basophils, eosinophils, B-helper and cytotoxic T lymphocytes, total memory T 
helper lymphocytes, monocytes or natural killer cells, in the peripheral blood with no leukocytosis 
observed. 
Vedolizumab did not affect immune surveillance and inflammation of the central nervous system in 
Experimental Autoimmune Encephalomyelitis in non-human primates, a model of multiple sclerosis. 
Vedolizumab did not affect immune responses to antigenic challenge in the dermis and muscle (see 
section 4.4). In contrast, vedolizumab inhibited an immune response to a gastrointestinal antigenic 
challenge in healthy human volunteers (see section 4.4). 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunogenicity 
Antibodies to vedolizumab may develop during vedolizumab treatment most of which are neutralising. 
The formation of anti-vedolizumab antibodies is associated with increased clearance of vedolizumab 
and lower rates of clinical remission.  
Pharmacodynamic effects 
In clinical trials with intravenous vedolizumab at doses ranging from 2 to 10 mg/kg, > 95% saturation 
of α4β7 receptors on subsets of circulating lymphocytes involved in gut immune surveillance was 
observed in patients. 
Vedolizumab did not affect CD4+ and CD8+ trafficking into the CNS as evidenced by the lack of 
change in the ratio of CD4+/CD8+ in cerebrospinal fluid pre- and post-vedolizumab administration in 
healthy human volunteers. These data are consistent with investigations in nonhuman primates which 
did not detect effects on immune surveillance of the CNS. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Ulcerative colitis - vedolizumab for intravenous administration 
The efficacy and safety of intravenous vedolizumab for the treatment of adult patients with moderately 
to severely active ulcerative colitis (Mayo score 6 to 12 with endoscopic sub score ≥ 2) was 
demonstrated in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluating efficacy endpoints at 
week 6 and week 52 (GEMINI 1). Enrolled patients had failed at least 1 conventional therapy, 
including corticosteroids, immunomodulators, and/or the TNFα antagonist infliximab (including 
primary non-responders). Concomitant stable doses of oral aminosalicylates, corticosteroids and/or 
immunomodulators were permitted.  
For the evaluation of the week 6 endpoints, 374 patients were randomised in a double-blind fashion 
(3:2) to receive vedolizumab 300 mg or placebo at week 0 and week 2. Primary endpoint was the 
proportion of patients with clinical response (defined as reduction in complete Mayo score of 
≥ 3 points and ≥ 30% from baseline with an accompanying decrease in rectal bleeding subscore of 
≥ 1 point or absolute rectal bleeding subscore of ≤ 1 point) at week 6. Table 2 shows the results from 
the primary and secondary endpoints evaluated. 
Table 2. Week 6 efficacy results of GEMINI 1 
Placebo 
n = 149 
26% 
5% 
25% 
Endpoint 
Clinical response 
Clinical remission§ 
Mucosal healing¶ 
*p < 0.0001 
†p ≤ 0.001 
‡p < 0.05 
§Clinical remission: Complete Mayo score of ≤ 2 points and no individual subscore > 1 point 
¶Mucosal healing: Mayo endoscopic subscore of ≤ 1 point 
Vedolizumab 
n = 225 
47%* 
17%† 
41%‡ 
The beneficial effect of vedolizumab on clinical response, remission and mucosal healing was 
observed both in patients with no prior TNFα antagonist exposure as well as in those who had failed 
prior TNFα antagonist therapy. 
In GEMINI 1, 2 cohorts of patients received vedolizumab at week 0 and week 2: cohort 1 patients 
were randomised to receive either vedolizumab 300 mg or placebo in a double-blind fashion, and 
cohort 2 patients were treated with open-label vedolizumab 300 mg. To evaluate efficacy at week 52, 
373 patients from cohort 1 and 2 who were treated with vedolizumab and had achieved clinical 
response at week 6 were randomised in a double-blind fashion (1:1:1) to 1 of the following regimens 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
beginning at week 6: vedolizumab 300 mg every 8 weeks, vedolizumab 300 mg every 4 weeks, or 
placebo every 4 weeks. Beginning at week 6, patients who had achieved clinical response and were 
receiving corticosteroids were required to begin a corticosteroid-tapering regimen. Primary endpoint 
was the proportion of patients in clinical remission at week 52. Table 3 shows the results from the 
primary and secondary endpoints evaluated. 
Table 3. Week 52 efficacy results of GEMINI 1 
Endpoint 
Clinical remission 
Durable clinical response¶ 
Mucosal healing 
Durable clinical remission# 
Corticosteroid-free clinical remission♠ 
14% 
*The placebo group includes those subjects who received vedolizumab at week 0 and week 2, and were 
20% 
9% 
Vedolizumab IV 
every 8 weeks 
n = 122 
42%† 
57%† 
52%† 
20%§ 
31%§ 
Vedolizumab IV 
every 4 weeks 
n = 125 
45%† 
52%† 
56%† 
24%‡ 
45%† 
Placebo 
n = 126* 
16% 
24% 
randomised to receive placebo from week 6 through week 52. 
†p < 0.0001 
‡p < 0.001 
§p < 0.05 
¶Durable clinical response: Clinical response at weeks 6 and 52 
#Durable clinical remission: Clinical remission at weeks 6 and 52 
♠Corticosteroid-free clinical remission: Patients using oral corticosteroids at baseline who had 
discontinued corticosteroids beginning at week 6 and were in clinical remission at week 52. Patient 
numbers were n = 72 for placebo, n = 70 for vedolizumab every 8 weeks, and n = 73 for vedolizumab 
every 4 weeks 
Exploratory analyses provide additional data on key subpopulations studied. Approximately one-third 
of patients had failed prior TNFα antagonist therapy. Among these patients, 37% receiving 
vedolizumab every 8 weeks, 35% receiving vedolizumab every 4 weeks, and 5% receiving placebo 
achieved clinical remission at week 52. Improvements in durable clinical response (47%, 43%, 16%), 
mucosal healing (42%, 48%, 8%), durable clinical remission (21%, 13%, 3%) and corticosteroid-free 
clinical remission (23%, 32%, 4%) were seen in the prior TNFα antagonist failure population treated 
with vedolizumab every 8 weeks, vedolizumab every 4 weeks and placebo, respectively. 
Patients who failed to demonstrate response at week 6 remained in the study and received 
vedolizumab every 4 weeks. Clinical response using partial Mayo scores was achieved at week 10 and 
week 14 by greater proportions of vedolizumab patients (32% and 39%, respectively) compared with 
placebo patients (15% and 21%, respectively). 
Patients who lost response to vedolizumab when treated every 8 weeks were allowed to enter an 
open-label extension study and receive vedolizumab every 4 weeks. In these patients, clinical 
remission was achieved in 25% of patients at week 28 and week 52. 
Patients who achieved a clinical response after receiving vedolizumab at week 0 and 2 and were then 
randomised to placebo (for 6 to 52 weeks) and lost response were allowed to enter the open-label 
extension study and receive vedolizumab every 4 weeks. In these patients, clinical remission was 
achieved in 45% of patients by 28 weeks and 36% of patients by 52 weeks. 
In this open-label extension study, the benefits of vedolizumab treatment as assessed by partial Mayo 
score, clinical remission, and clinical response were shown for up to 196 weeks. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) was assessed by Inflammatory Bowel Disease Questionnaire 
(IBDQ), a disease specific instrument, and SF-36 and EQ-5D, which are generic measures. 
Exploratory analysis show clinically meaningful improvements were observed for vedolizumab 
groups, and the improvements were significantly greater as compared with the placebo group at 
week 6 and week 52 on EQ-5D and EQ-5D VAS scores, all subscales of IBDQ (bowel symptoms, 
systemic function, emotional function and social function), and all subscales of SF-36 including the 
Physical Component Summary (PCS) and Mental Component Summary (MCS). 
Ulcerative colitis - vedolizumab for subcutaneous administration 
The efficacy and safety of subcutaneous vedolizumab for the treatment of adult patients with 
moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis (Mayo score 6 to 12 with endoscopic sub score ≥ 2) 
was demonstrated in a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluating efficacy 
endpoints at week 52 (VISIBLE 1). In VISIBLE 1, enrolled patients (n = 383) had failed at least 
1 conventional therapy, including corticosteroids, immunomodulators, and/or TNFα antagonists 
(including primary non responders). Concomitant stable doses of oral aminosalicylates, corticosteroids 
and/or immunomodulators were permitted. 
Patients who achieved clinical response to open-label treatment with intravenous vedolizumab at 
week 6 were eligible to be randomised For the evaluation of the week 52 endpoints, 216 (56.4%) 
patients were randomised and treated in a double-blind fashion (2:1:1) to 1 of the following regimens: 
subcutaneous vedolizumab 108 mg every 2 weeks, intravenous vedolizumab 300 mg every 8 weeks, or 
placebo. 
The baseline demographics were similar for patients in vedolizumab and placebo groups. The baseline 
Mayo score was between 9 to 12 (severe ulcerative colitis) in about 62% and 6 to 8 (moderate 
ulcerative colitis) in about 38% of the overall study population. 
Primary study endpoint clinical remission was defined as a complete Mayo score of ≤ 2 points and no 
individual subscore > 1 point at 52 weeks in patients who had achieved a clinical response at week 6 
of intravenous vedolizumab induction treatment. Clinical response was defined as a reduction in 
complete Mayo score of ≥ 3 points and ≥ 30% from baseline with an accompanying decrease in rectal 
bleeding subscore of ≥ 1 point or absolute rectal bleeding subscore of ≤ 2 points and no individual 
subscore >1 point. 
Table 4 shows the evaluated results from the primary and secondary endpoints. 
Table 4. Week 52 efficacy results of VISIBLE I 
Endpointa 
Placebob 
n = 56 
Vedolizumab 
SC 108 mg 
every 2 weeks 
n = 106 
Vedolizumab 
IV 
300 mg 
every 8 weeks 
n = 54 
Estimatec of 
treatment 
difference  
(95% CI)  
Vedolizumab SC 
vs. Placebo 
32.3 (19.7, 45.0) 
P-valuec 
56.6% 
46.2% 
53.7% 
64.2% 
42.6% 
14.3% 
28.6% 
21.4% 
p < 0.001 
Clinical remissiond 
Mucosal healinge 
Durable clinical 
responsef 
Durable clinical 
remissiong 
Corticosteroid-free 
remissionh 
aEndpoints are presented in the order that fixed-sequence testing was performed for control of Type 1 error at 5% 
bThe placebo group includes those subjects who received intravenous vedolizumab at week 0 and week 2, and 
were randomised to receive placebo from week 6 through week 52. 
36.1 (21.2, 50.9) 
35.7 (22.1, 49.3) 
20.6 (-4.5, 43.7) 
p = 0.076 
(NS) 
p = 0.067 
(NS) 
9.7 (-6.6, 25.7) 
p < 0.001 
p < 0.001 
72.2% 
16.7% 
15.1% 
28.9% 
28.6% 
5.4% 
8.3% 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cEstimate of treatment difference and the p-value for all endpoints is based on the Cochrane-Mantel-Haenszel 
method 
dClinical remission: Complete Mayo score of ≤ 2 points and no individual subscore > 1 point at week 52 
eMucosal healing: Mayo endoscopic subscore of ≤ 1 point 
fDurable clinical response: Clinical response at weeks 6 and 52 
gDurable clinical remission: Clinical remission at weeks 6 and 52 
hCorticosteroid-free clinical remission: Patients using oral corticosteroids at baseline who had discontinued 
corticosteroids and were in clinical remission at week 52. Patient numbers using oral corticosteroids at baseline 
were n = 24 for placebo, n = 45 for subcutaneous vedolizumab and n = 21 for intravenous vedolizumab 
NS = non significant (2-tailed p-value > 0.05) 
The primary and secondary endpoints were analysed in subgroups of patients who had failed prior 
TNFα antagonist therapy (37%; n = 80) and patients who were naïve to previous TNFα antagonist 
therapy (63%; n = 136). Results of study patients treated with placebo and subcutaneous vedolizumab 
in these subgroups are presented in Table 5. 
Table 5. VISIBLE 1 Study results at week 52 analysed by response to prior previous TNFα 
antagonist therapy 
Failure prior TNFα antagonist therapy  
Clinical remission 
Mucosal healing 
Durable clinical response 
Durable clinical remission 
Corticosteroid free clinical remissiona 
Naive TNFα antagonist therapy  
Clinical remission  
Mucosal healing 
Durable clinical response 
Durable clinical remission 
Corticosteroid free clinical remissionb 
Treatment once every 2 weeks 
Placebo 
n = 19 
Vedolizumab SC 108 mg 
n = 39 
5.3% 
5.3% 
15.8% 
0% 
8.3% 
n = 37 
18.9% 
29.7% 
35.1% 
8.1% 
8.3% 
33.3% 
46.2% 
66.7% 
2.6% 
27.3% 
n = 67 
53.7% 
62.7% 
62.7% 
22.4% 
30.4% 
a Patients who had failed prior TNFα antagonist therapy and using oral corticosteroids at baseline were n = 12 for 
placebo and n = 22 for subcutaneous vedolizumab 
b Patients who were naïve to prior TNFα antagonist therapy and using oral corticosteroids at baseline were 
n = 12 for placebo and n = 23 for subcutaneous vedolizumab 
Health related quality of life (HRQOL) was assessed by Inflammatory Bowel Disease Questionnaire 
(IBDQ), a disease specific instrument, and EuroQol-5 Dimension (EQ-5D, including EQ 5D VAS), 
which is a generic measure. Work productivity was assessed by work productivity and activity 
impairment questionnaire (WPAI-UC). Patients treated with subcutaneous vedolizumab maintained 
improvements in IBDQ, EQ-5D and WPAI-UC scores at week 52 to a greater extent than patients who 
received placebo. 
Patients who completed VISIBLE 1 were eligible to enrol in an ongoing, open-label extension study to 
evaluate long-term safety and efficacy of subcutaneous vedolizumab treatment in patients with 
ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease. 
Patients in VISIBLE 1 who did not achieve clinical response at week 6 received a third dose of 
vedolizumab 300 mg by intravenous infusion at week 6. Of patients who received a third dose of 
vedolizumab 300 mg by intravenous infusion at week 6, 79.7% (114/143) achieved a clinical response 
at week 14. Patients who achieved a clinical response at week 14 were eligible to enter the open-label 
extension study and receive subcutaneous vedolizumab 108 mg every 2 weeks. Clinical remission as 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
assessed by the partial Mayo score (a standardised measure that includes 3 of the 4 scored subscales of 
the complete Mayo score: stool frequency, rectal bleeding, and physician global assessment) was 
achieved by 39.2% (40/102) of these patients at week 40 after transitioning to subcutaneous 
vedolizumab in the open-label extension study. 
Patients randomised to intravenous vedolizumab treatment group in VISIBLE 1 received vedolizumab 
300 mg intravenously at weeks 0, 2, and 6 and every 8 weeks thereafter until week 52. At week 52, 
these patients entered the open-label extension study and received subcutaneous vedolizumab 108 mg 
every 2 weeks. Clinical remission as assessed by the partial Mayo score was maintained in 77% of 
patients at 24 weeks after transitioning to subcutaneous vedolizumab in the open-label extension 
study. 
Crohn’s disease – vedolizumab for intravenous administration  
The efficacy and safety of intravenous vedolizumab for the treatment of adult patients with moderately 
to severely active Crohn’s disease (Crohn’s Disease Activity Index [CDAI] score of 220 to 450) were 
evaluated in 2 studies (GEMINI 2 and 3). Enrolled patients have failed at least 1 conventional therapy, 
including corticosteroids, immunomodulators, and/or TNFα antagonists (including primary 
non-responders). Concomitant stable doses of oral corticosteroids, immunomodulators, and antibiotics 
were permitted. 
The GEMINI 2 Study was a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluating efficacy 
endpoints at week 6 and week 52. Patients (n = 368) were randomised in a double-blind fashion (3:2) 
to receive 2 doses of vedolizumab 300 mg or placebo at week 0 and week 2. The 2 primary endpoints 
were the proportion of patients in clinical remission (defined as CDAI score ≤ 150 points) at week 6 
and the proportion of patients with enhanced clinical response (defined as a ≥ 100-point decrease in 
CDAI score from baseline) at week 6 (see Table 6). 
GEMINI 2 contained 2 cohorts of patients that received vedolizumab at weeks 0 and 2: 
cohort 1 patients were randomised to receive either vedolizumab 300 mg or placebo in a double-blind 
fashion, and cohort 2 patients were treated with open-label vedolizumab 300 mg. To evaluate efficacy 
at week 52, 461 patients from cohorts 1 and 2, who were treated with vedolizumab and had achieved 
clinical response (defined as a ≥ 70-point decrease in CDAI score from baseline) at week 6, were 
randomised in a double-blind fashion (1:1:1) to 1 of the following regimens beginning at week 6: 
vedolizumab 300 mg every 8 weeks, vedolizumab 300 mg every 4 weeks, or placebo every 4 weeks. 
Patients showing clinical response at week 6 were required to begin corticosteroid tapering. Primary 
endpoint was the proportion of patients in clinical remission at week 52 (see Table 7). 
The GEMINI 3 Study was a second randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study that evaluated 
efficacy at week 6 and week 10 in the subgroup of patients defined as having failed at least 
1 conventional therapy and failed TNFα antagonist therapy (including primary non-responders) as 
well as the overall population, which also included patients who failed at least 1 conventional therapy 
and were naïve to TNFα antagonist therapy. Patients (n = 416), which included approximately 75% 
TNFα antagonist failures patients, were randomised in a double-blind fashion (1:1) to receive either 
vedolizumab 300 mg or placebo at weeks 0, 2, and 6. The primary endpoint was the proportion of 
patients in clinical remission at week 6 in the TNFα antagonist failure subpopulation. As noted in 
Table 6, although the primary endpoint was not met, exploratory analyses show that clinically 
meaningful results were observed. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6. Efficacy results for GEMINI 2 and 3 studies at week 6 and week 10 
Study 
Endpoint 
Placebo 
Vedolizumab IV 
GEMINI 2 Study 
Clinical remission, week 6 
Overall 
7% (n = 148) 
15%* (n = 220) 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Failure 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Naïve 
4% (n = 70) 
9% (n = 76) 
Enhanced clinical response, week 6 
Overall 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Failure 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Naïve 
Serum CRP change from baseline to 
week 6, median (mcg/mL) 
26% (n = 148) 
23% (n = 70) 
30% (n = 76) 
11% (n = 105) 
17% (n = 109) 
31%† (n = 220) 
24% (n = 105) 
42% (n = 109) 
-0.5 (n = 147) 
-0.9 (n = 220) 
Overall‡ 
GEMINI 3 Study 
Clinical remission, week 6 
Overall‡ 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Failure¶ 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Naïve 
Clinical remission, week 10 
Overall 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Failure¶,‡ 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Naïve 
Sustained clinical remission#,¶ 
Overall 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Failure¶,‡ 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Naïve 
Enhanced clinical response, week 6  
12% (n = 207) 
12% (n = 157) 
12% (n = 50) 
13% (n = 207) 
12% (n = 157) 
16% (n = 50) 
8% (n = 207) 
8% (n = 157) 
8% (n = 50) 
19% (n = 209) 
15%§ (n = 158) 
31% (n = 51) 
29% (n = 209) 
27% (n = 158) 
35% (n = 51) 
15% (n = 209) 
12% (n = 158) 
26% (n = 51) 
39% (n = 209) 
39% (n = 158) 
39% (n = 51) 
Overall^ 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Failure‡ 
TNFα Antagonist(s) Naïve^ 
23% (n = 207) 
22% (n = 157) 
24% (n = 50) 
*p < 0.05 
†not statistically significant 
‡secondary endpoint to be viewed as exploratory by pre-specified statistical testing procedure 
§not statistically significant, the other endpoints were therefore not tested statistically 
¶n = 157 for placebo and n = 158 for vedolizumab 
#Sustained clinical remission: clinical remission at weeks 6 and 10 
^Exploratory Endpoint 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7. Efficacy results for GEMINI 2 at week 52 
Clinical remission 
Placebo 
n = 153* 
22% 
Vedolizumab IV 
every 8 weeks 
n = 154 
39%† 
44%‡ 
32%‡ 
Vedolizumab IV 
every 4 weeks 
n = 154 
36%‡ 
45%‡ 
29%‡ 
16% 
30% 
Enhanced clinical response 
Corticosteroid-free clinical remission§ 
Durable clinical remission¶ 
14% 
*The placebo group includes those subjects who received vedolizumab at week 0 and week 2, and were 
randomised to receive placebo from week 6 through week 52. 
†p < 0.001 
‡p < 0.05 
§Corticosteroid-free clinical remission: Patients using oral corticosteroids at baseline who had discontinued 
corticosteroids beginning at week 6 and were in clinical remission at week 52. Patient numbers were n = 82 
for placebo, n = 82 for vedolizumab every 8 weeks, and n = 80 for vedolizumab every 4 weeks  
¶Durable clinical remission: Clinical remission at ≥ 80% of study visits including final visit (week 52) 
16% 
21% 
Exploratory analyses examined the effects of concomitant corticosteroids and immunomodulators on 
induction of remission with vedolizumab. Combination treatment, most notably with concomitant 
corticosteroids, appeared to be more effective in inducing remission in Crohn’s disease than 
vedolizumab alone or with concomitant immunomodulators, which showed a smaller difference from 
placebo in the rate of remission. Clinical remission rate in GEMINI 2 at week 6 was 10% (difference 
from placebo 2%, 95% CI: -6, 10) when administered without corticosteroids compared to 20% 
(difference from placebo 14%, 95% CI: -1, 29) when administered with concomitant corticosteroids. 
In GEMINI 3 at week 6 and 10 the respective clinical remission rates were 18% (difference from 
placebo 3%, 95% CI: -7, 13) and 22% (difference from placebo 8%, 95% CI: -3, 19) when 
administered without corticosteroids compared to 20% (difference from placebo 11%, 95% CI: 2, 20) 
and 35% (difference from placebo 23%, 95% CI: 12, 33) respectively when administered with 
concomitant corticosteroids. These effects were seen whether or not immunomodulators were also 
concomitantly administered. 
Exploratory analyses provide additional data on key subpopulations studied. In GEMINI 2, 
approximately half of patients had previously failed TNFα antagonist therapy. Among these patients, 
28% receiving vedolizumab every 8 weeks, 27% receiving vedolizumab every 4 weeks, and 13% 
receiving placebo achieved clinical remission at week 52. Enhanced clinical response was achieved in 
29%, 38%, 21%, respectively, and corticosteroid-free clinical remission was achieved in 24%, 16%, 
0%, respectively. 
Patients who failed to demonstrate response at week 6 in GEMINI 2 were retained in the study and 
received vedolizumab every 4 weeks. Enhanced clinical response was observed at week 10 and 
week 14 for greater proportions of vedolizumab patients 16% and 22%, respectively, compared with 
placebo patients 7% and 12%, respectively. There was no clinically meaningful difference in clinical 
remission between treatment groups at these time points. Analyses of week 52 clinical remission in 
patients who were non-responders at week 6 but achieved response at week 10 or week 14 indicate 
that non-responder CD patients may benefit from a dose of vedolizumab at week 10. 
Patients who lost response to vedolizumab when treated every 8 weeks in GEMINI 2 were allowed to 
enter an open-label extension study and received vedolizumab every 4 weeks. In these patients, 
clinical remission was achieved in 23% of patients at week 28 and 32% of patients at week 52. 
Patients who achieved a clinical response after receiving vedolizumab at week 0 and 2 and were then 
randomised to placebo (for 6 to 52 weeks) and lost response were allowed to enter the open-label 
extension study and receive vedolizumab every 4 weeks. In these patients, clinical remission was 
achieved in 46% of patients by 28 weeks and 41% of patients by 52 weeks. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this open-label extension study, clinical remission and clinical response were observed in patients 
for up to 196 weeks. 
Exploratory analysis showed clinically meaningful improvements were observed for the vedolizumab 
every 4 weeks and every 8 weeks groups in GEMINI 2 and the improvements were significantly 
greater as compared with the placebo group from baseline to week 52 on EQ-5D and EQ-5D VAS 
scores, total IBDQ score, and IBDQ subscales of bowel symptoms and systemic function. 
Crohn’s disease - vedolizumab for subcutaneous administration 
The efficacy and safety of subcutaneous vedolizumab for the treatment of adult patients with 
moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease (CDAI score of 220 to 450) was demonstrated in a 
randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluating efficacy endpoints at 
week 52 (VISIBLE 2). In VISIBLE 2, enrolled patients (n = 644) had inadequate response to, loss of 
response to, or intolerance to one conventional therapy, including corticosteroids, immunomodulators, 
and/or TNFα antagonists (including primary non-responders). Concomitant stable doses of oral 
aminosalicylates, corticosteroids and/or immunomodulators were permitted.  
Patients who achieved clinical response to open-label treatment with intravenous vedolizumab at 
week 6 were eligible to be randomised. For the evaluation of the week 52 endpoints, 409 (64%) 
patients were randomised and treated in a double-blind fashion (2:1) to receive subcutaneous 
vedolizumab 108 mg (n = 275) or subcutaneous placebo (n = 134) every 2 weeks. 
The baseline demographics were similar for patients in vedolizumab and placebo groups. The baseline 
CDAI was > 330 (severe Crohn’s disease) in about 41% and ≤ 330 (moderate Crohn’s disease) in 
about 59% of the overall study population. 
Beginning at week 6, patients who had achieved clinical response (defined as a ≥ 70-point decrease in 
the CDAI score from baseline) and were receiving corticosteroids were required to begin a 
corticosteroid tapering regimen. Primary endpoint was the proportion of patients with clinical 
remission (CDAI score ≤ 150) at week 52. The secondary endpoints were the proportion of patients 
with enhanced clinical response ( ≥ 100 point decrease in CDAI score from baseline) at week 52, the 
proportion of patients with corticosteroid-free remission (patients using oral corticosteroids at baseline 
who had discontinued corticosteroids and were in clinical remission) at week 52, and the proportion of 
TNFα antagonist naïve patients who achieved clinical remission (CDAI score ≤ 150) at week 52. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8 shows the evaluated results from the primary and secondary endpoints. 
Table 8. Week 52 efficacy results of VISIBLE 2  
Endpoint* 
Placebo† 
n = 134 
Vedolizumab 
SC 108 mg 
every 2 weeks 
n = 275 
Clinical remission§ 
34.3% 
48.0% 
Estimate‡ of 
treatment difference  
(95% CI) 
Vedolizumab SC vs. 
Placebo 
13.7 (3.8, 23.7) 
Enhanced clinical response# 
44.8% 
52.0% 
7.3 (-3.0, 17.5) 
P-value‡ 
p = 0.008 
p = 0.167 
(NS) 
45.3% 
48.6% 
42.9% 
18.2% 
p = 0.591‡‡ 
p = 0.002‡‡ 
4.3 (-11.6, 20.3) 
27.1 (11.9, 42.3) 
Corticosteroid-free 
remission** 
Clinical remission in TNFα 
antagonist naïve patients†† 
*Endpoints are presented in the order that fixed-sequence testing was performed for control of Type 1 error at 
5% 
†The placebo group includes those subjects who received intravenous vedolizumab at week 0 and week 2, and 
were randomised to receive placebo from week 6 through week 52. 
‡Estimate of treatment difference and the p-value for all endpoints is based on the Cochrane-Mantel-Haenszel 
method 
§Clinical remission: CDAI score ≤ 150, at week 52  
#Enhanced clinical response: ≥ 100-point decrease in CDAI score from baseline (week 0), at week 52 
**Corticosteroid-free clinical remission: Patients using oral corticosteroids at baseline who had discontinued 
corticosteroids and were in clinical remission at week 52. Patient numbers using oral corticosteroids at 
baseline were n = 44 for placebo and n = 95 for subcutaneous vedolizumab.  
†† Clinical remission (CDAI score ≤ 150, at week 52) in TNFα antagonist naïve patients (n = 63 placebo; 
n = 107 subcutaneous vedolizumab 
‡‡ nominal p-value 
NS = non significant (2-tailed p-value > 0.05) 
The primary and secondary endpoints were analysed in subgroups of patients who were naïve to prior 
TNFα antagonist therapy (42%; n = 170), patients who had failed prior TNFα antagonist therapy 
(51%; n = 210), and patients who had exposure to prior TNFα antagonist therapy but did not 
experience treatment failure (7%; n = 29). Results of study patients treated with placebo and 
subcutaneous vedolizumab in these subgroups are presented in Tables 9 and 10. 
Table 9. Week 52 efficacy results in TNFα antagonist naïve patients in VISIBLE 2 
Endpoint 
Clinical remission  
Placebo 
n = 63 
42.9% 
Vedolizumab SC 108 mg 
every 2 weeks 
n = 107 
48.6% 
47.6% 
Enhanced clinical response  
Corticosteroid-free 
remission** 
** Patients who were naïve to prior TNFα antagonist therapy and using oral corticosteroids at baseline were 
n = 22 for placebo and n = 39 for subcutaneous vedolizumab 
22.8 (-3.2, 46.8) 
18.2% 
54.2% 
41.0% 
Treatment difference  
(95% CI)  
Vedolizumab SC vs. 
Placebo 
4.3 (-11.6, 20.3) 
4.4 (-11.6, 20.3) 
37 
 
 
 
 
Table 10. Week 52 efficacy results in patients who failed TNFα antagonist therapy in 
VISIBLE 2 
Endpoint 
Clinical remission  
Enhanced clinical response  
Placebo 
n = 59 
28.8% 
45.8% 
Vedolizumab SC 108 mg 
every 2 weeks 
n = 151 
46.4% 
49.0% 
Treatment difference  
(95% CI)  
Vedolizumab SC vs. 
Placebo 
17.6 (3.8, 31.4) 
3.2 (-11.8, 18.2) 
Corticosteroid-free 
remission** 
** Patients who had failed prior TNFα antagonist therapy and using oral corticosteroids at baseline were 
n = 20 for placebo and n = 52 for subcutaneous vedolizumab 
31.2 (5.2, 54.5) 
15.0% 
46.2% 
HRQOL was assessed by IBDQ, a disease specific instrument, and EQ-5D (including EQ-5D VAS), 
which is a generic measure. Work productivity was assessed by WPAI-CD. Patients treated with 
subcutaneous vedolizumab maintained improvements in IBDQ, EQ-5D and WPAI-CD scores at 
week 52 to a greater extent than patients who received placebo. 
Patients who completed VISIBLE 2 were eligible to enrol in an ongoing, open-label extension study to 
evaluate long-term safety and efficacy of subcutaneous vedolizumab treatment in patients with 
ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
vedolizumab in 1 or more subsets of the paediatric population in ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease 
(see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The single and multiple dose pharmacokinetics of vedolizumab have been studied in healthy subjects 
and in patients with moderate to severely active ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease. 
Absorption 
In patients administered 300 mg intravenous vedolizumab as a 30 minute intravenous infusion on 
weeks 0 and 2, mean serum trough concentrations at week 6 were 27.9 mcg/mL (SD ± 15.51) in 
ulcerative colitis and 26.8 mcg/mL (SD ± 17.45) in Crohn’s disease. In studies with intravenous 
vedolizumab, starting at week 6, patients received 300 mg intravenous vedolizumab every 8 or 
4 weeks. In patients with ulcerative colitis, mean steady-state serum trough concentrations were 
11.2 mcg/mL (SD ± 7.24) and 38.3 mcg/mL (SD ± 24.43), respectively. In patients with Crohn's 
disease mean steady-state serum trough concentrations were 13.0 mcg/mL (SD ± 9.08) 
and 34.8 mcg/mL (SD ± 22.55), respectively. 
In studies in patients with ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease receiving subcutaneous vedolizumab, 
starting at week 6, patients received 108 mg subcutaneous vedolizumab every 2 weeks. The mean 
steady state serum trough concentrations were 35.8 mcg/mL (SD ± 15.2) in patients with ulcerative 
colitis and 31.4 mcg/mL (SD ± 14.7) in patients with Crohn’s disease. The bioavailability of 
vedolizumab following single-dose subcutaneous administration of 108 mg relative to single-dose 
intravenous administration was approximately 75%. The median time to reach maximum serum 
concentration (tmax) was 7 days (range 3 to 14 days), and the mean maximum serum concentration 
(Cmax) was 15.4 mcg/mL (SD ± 3.2). 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses indicate that the distribution volume of vedolizumab is 
approximately 5 litres. The plasma protein binding of vedolizumab has not been evaluated. 
Vedolizumab is a therapeutic monoclonal antibody and is not expected to bind to plasma proteins. 
Vedolizumab does not pass the blood brain barrier after intravenous administration. Vedolizumab 
450 mg administered intravenously was not detected in the cerebrospinal fluid of healthy subjects. 
Elimination 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses based on intravenous and subcutaneous data indicate that the 
clearance of vedolizumab is approximately 0.162 L/day (through linear elimination pathway) and the 
serum half-life is 26 days. The exact elimination route of vedolizumab is not known. Population 
pharmacokinetic analyses suggest that while low albumin, higher body weight and prior treatment 
with anti-TNF drugs may increase vedolizumab clearance, the magnitude of their effects is not 
considered to be clinically relevant. 
Linearity 
Vedolizumab exhibited linear pharmacokinetics at serum concentrations greater than 1 mcg/mL. 
Special populations 
Age does not impact the vedolizumab clearance in ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease patients 
based on the population pharmacokinetic analyses. No formal studies have been conducted to examine 
the effects of either renal or hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of vedolizumab. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential, toxicity to reproduction 
and development. 
Long-term animal studies with vedolizumab to assess its carcinogenic potential have not been 
conducted because pharmacologically responsive models to monoclonal antibodies do not exist. In a 
pharmacologically responsive species (cynomolgus monkeys), there was no evidence of cellular 
hyperplasia or systemic immunomodulation that could potentially be associated with oncogenesis in 
13- and 26-week toxicology studies. Furthermore, no effects were found of vedolizumab on the 
proliferative rate or cytotoxicity of a human tumour cell line expressing the α4β7 integrin in vitro. 
No specific fertility studies in animals have been performed with vedolizumab. No definitive 
conclusion can be drawn on the male reproductive organs in cynomolgus monkey repeated dose 
toxicity study. Given the lack of binding of vedolizumab to male reproductive tissue in monkey and 
human, and the intact male fertility observed in β7 integrin-knockout mice, it is not expected that 
vedolizumab will affect male fertility. 
Administration of vedolizumab to pregnant cynomolgus monkeys during most of gestation resulted in 
no evidence of effects on teratogenicity, prenatal or postnatal development in infants up to 6 months of 
age. Low levels (< 300 mcg/L) of vedolizumab were detected on post-partum day 28 in the milk of 3 
of 11 cynomolgus monkeys treated 100 mg/kg of vedolizumab dosed every 2 weeks and not in any 
animals that received 10 mg/kg. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Citric acid monohydrate 
Sodium citrate dihydrate 
L-histidine 
L-histidine monohydrochloride 
L-arginine hydrochloride 
Polysorbate 80 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
24 months 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C-8 °C). Keep the pre-filled syringes or pre-filled pens in the outer carton in 
order to protect from light. 
Do not freeze. 
If needed, a single pre-filled syringe or pre-filled pen can be left out of the refrigerator protected from 
light at room temperature (up to 25 °C) for up to 7 days. Do not use the pre-filled syringe or pre-filled 
pen if left out of the refrigerator for more than 7 days. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Solution for injection in a Type I glass 1 mL syringe with a fixed 27 gauge thin wall, 1.27 cm needle. 
The syringe has a rubber needle cover encased in a plastic shell and rubber stopper. 
The subcutaneous vedolizumab pre-filled syringe is a single dose, disposable drug delivery system 
with manual injection operation. Each pre-filled syringe is equipped with a safety device that activates 
to extend and lock a guard over the needle once the injection is completed. 
Packs of 1 or 2 pre-filled syringes, and multipacks of 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes.  
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Solution for injection in a pre-filled pen in a Type I glass 1 mL syringe and a fixed 27 gauge thin wall, 
1.27 cm needle. The syringe has a rubber needle cover encased in a plastic shell and rubber stopper. 
The subcutaneous vedolizumab pre-filled pen is a single dose, disposable drug delivery system with 
mechanical injection operation. Each pre-filled pen is equipped with an automated needle shield to 
extend and lock over the needle once the device is removed from the injection site. 
Packs of 1 or 2 pre-filled pens, and multipacks of 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled pens. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Instructions for administration 
After removing the pre-filled syringe or pre-filled pen from the refrigerator, wait 30 minutes before 
injecting to allow the solution to reach room temperature.  
Do not leave the pre-filled syringe or pre-filled pen in direct sunlight. 
Do not freeze. Do not use if it has been frozen. 
Inspect the solution visually for particulate matter and discoloration prior to administration. The 
solution should be colourless to yellow. Do not use pre-filled syringe or pre-filled pen with visible 
particulate matter or discoloration. 
Each pre-filled syringe or pre-filled pen is for single use only. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/14/923/002: 1 pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/14/923/003: 2 pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/14/923/004 Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
EU/1/14/923/005: 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/14/923/006: 2 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/14/923/007 Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled pens 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 22 May 2014 
Date of latest renewal: 12 December 2018 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURERS OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE 
FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers of the biological active substance 
AbbVie Bioresearch Center 
100 Research Drive 
Worcester, MA 
01605-4314 
USA 
Abbvie Biotechnology, Ltd 
Road #2 Km 59.2 
PO Box 2191 
Barceloneta  
Puerto Rico 00617 
Lonza Biologics, Inc. 
101 International Drive 
Portsmouth 
NH 03801 
USA 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals U.S.A. Inc. 
9450 Winnetka Avenue North 
Minneapolis  
MN 55445 
USA 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Takeda Austria GmbH 
St. Peter-Straße 25 
4020 Linz 
Austria 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
If the dates for submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the 
same time. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON (300 mg) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entyvio 300 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
vedolizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each vial contains 300 mg of vedolizumab. 
After reconstitution each mL contains 60 mg of vedolizumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: Sucrose, L-histidine, L-histidine monohydrochloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, 
polysorbate 80. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For intravenous use after reconstitution and dilution. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Keep the vial in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/923/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL (300 mg) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Entyvio 300 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
vedolizumab  
For intravenous use after reconstitution and dilution. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
For intravenous use after reconstitution and dilution. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
300 mg 
6. 
OTHER 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON (WITH BLUE BOX) – PRE-FILLED SYRINGE (108 mg) 
(EXCLUDING MULTIPACKS) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
vedolizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 108 mg of vedolizumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: citric acid monohydrate, sodium citrate dihydrate, L-histidine, L-histidine 
monohydrochloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, polysorbate 80, water for injections. See the package 
leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
1 pre-filled syringe 
2 pre-filled syringes 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/923/002 
EU/1/14/923/003 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Entyvio 108 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (WITH BLUE BOX) (108 mg) 
(6x1 PRE-FILLED SYRINGES) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
vedolizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 108 mg of vedolizumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: citric acid monohydrate, sodium citrate dihydrate, L-histidine, L-histidine 
monohydrochloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, polysorbate 80, water for injections. See the package 
leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
For single use only. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/923/004 (6x1 pre-filled syringes) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Entyvio 108 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) – PRE-FILLED 
SYRINGES (108 mg) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
vedolizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled syringe contains 108 mg of vedolizumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: citric acid monohydrate, sodium citrate dihydrate, L-histidine, L-histidine 
monohydrochloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, polysorbate 80, water for injections. See the package 
leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
1 pre-filled syringe 
Component of a multipack, cannot be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
For single use only. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/923/004 (6x1 pre-filled syringe) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Entyvio 108 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTER OR STRIPS 
LIDDING (PRE-FILLED SYRINGE) (108 mg) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
vedolizumab 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S (as Takeda logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
For single use only. 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
SYRINGE LABEL (108 mg) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Entyvio 108 mg injection 
vedolizumab 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
0.68 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON (WITH BLUE BOX) – PRE-FILLED PEN (108 mg) 
(EXCLUDING MULTIPACKS) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
vedolizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled pen contains 108 mg of vedolizumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: citric acid monohydrate, sodium citrate dihydrate, L-histidine, L-histidine 
monohydrochloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, polysorbate 80, water for injections. See the package 
leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
1 pre-filled pen 
2 pre-filled pens 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/923/005 
EU/1/14/923/006 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Entyvio 108 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR MULTIPACK (WITH BLUE BOX) (108 mg) 
(6x1 PRE-FILLED PENS) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
vedolizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled pen contains 108 mg of vedolizumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: citric acid monohydrate, sodium citrate dihydrate, L-histidine, L-histidine 
monohydrochloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, polysorbate 80, water for injections. See the package 
leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
Multipack: 6 (6 packs of 1) pre-filled pens 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
For single use only. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/923/007 (6x1 pre-filled pens) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Entyvio 108 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) – PRE-FILLED 
PEN (108 mg) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
vedolizumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each pre-filled pen contains 108 mg of vedolizumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: citric acid monohydrate, sodium citrate dihydrate, L-histidine, L-histidine 
monohydrochloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, polysorbate 80, water for injections. See the package 
leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
1 pre-filled pen  
Component of a multipack, cannot be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
For single use only. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/14/923/007 (6x1 pre-filled pen) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Entyvio 108 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTER OR STRIPS 
LIDDING (PRE-FILLED PEN) (108 mg) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
vedolizumab  
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Takeda Pharma A/S (as Takeda logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
For single use only. 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
PEN LABEL (108 mg) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Entyvio 108 mg injection 
vedolizumab 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
0.68 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Entyvio 300 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
vedolizumab 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Entyvio is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Entyvio 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Entyvio will be given 
Possible side effects 
How to store Entyvio 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Entyvio is and what it is used for 
What Entyvio is 
Entyvio contains the active substance ‘vedolizumab’. Vedolizumab belongs to a group of biological 
medicines called monoclonal antibodies (MAbs).  
How Entyvio works 
Entyvio works by blocking a protein on the surface of white blood cells that cause the inflammation in 
ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease and pouchitis. This reduces the amount of inflammation. 
What Entyvio is used for 
Entyvio is used to treat the signs and symptoms in adults of: 
• 
moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis 
• 
moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease 
• 
moderately to severely active chronic pouchitis 
Ulcerative colitis 
Ulcerative colitis is a disease that causes inflammation of the large bowel. If you have ulcerative 
colitis, you will first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough or cannot tolerate 
these medicines, your doctor may give you Entyvio to reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease. 
Crohn’s disease 
Crohn’s disease is a disease that causes inflammation of the digestive system. If you have Crohn’s 
disease you will first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough or cannot tolerate 
these medicines, your doctor may give you Entyvio to reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease. 
Pouchitis 
Pouchitis is a disease that causes inflammation of the lining of the pouch, which was created during 
surgery to treat ulcerative colitis. If you have pouchitis, you may first be given antibiotics. If you do 
not respond well enough to the antibiotics, your doctor may give you Entyvio to reduce the signs and 
symptoms of your disease. 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Entyvio 
Do not use Entyvio 
• 
if you are allergic to vedolizumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
if you have an active severe infection - such as TB (tuberculosis), blood poisoning, severe 
diarrhoea and vomiting (gastroenteritis), nervous system infection. 
• 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or nurse before being given Entyvio. 
Tell your doctor or nurse immediately when you first receive this medicine, during treatment, and 
between doses: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you experience blurred, loss of or double vision, difficulty speaking, weakness in an arm or a 
leg, a change in the way you walk or problems with your balance, persistent numbness, 
decreased sensation or loss of sensation, memory loss or confusion. These may all be symptoms 
of a serious and potentially fatal brain condition known as progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
if you have an infection, or think you have an infection - signs include chills, shivering, 
persistent cough or a high fever. Some infections may become serious and possibly even 
life-threatening if left untreated. 
if you experience signs of an allergic reaction or other reaction to the infusion such as 
wheezing, difficulty breathing, hives, itching, swelling or dizziness. These could occur during or 
after the infusion. For more detailed information, see infusion and allergic reactions in section 4. 
if you are going to receive any vaccination or have recently had a vaccination. Entyvio may 
affect the way you respond to a vaccination. 
if you have cancer, tell your doctor. Your doctor will have to decide if you can still be given 
Entyvio. 
if you are not feeling any better as vedolizumab may take up to 14 weeks to work in some 
patients with very active Crohn’s disease. 
Children and adolescents 
Entyvio is not recommended for use in children or adolescents (under 18 years of age) due to the lack 
of information regarding the use of this medicine in this age group. 
Other medicines and Entyvio 
Tell your doctor or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. 
• 
Entyvio should not be given with other biologic medicines that suppress your immune system as 
the effect of this is not known. 
Tell your doctor if you have previously taken: 
• 
• 
Your doctor will decide if you can be given Entyvio.  
natalizumab (a medicine for multiple sclerosis) or  
rituximab (a medicine for certain types of cancer and rheumatoid arthritis).  
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy 
The effects of Entyvio in pregnant women are not known. Therefore, this medicine is not 
recommended for use during pregnancy. You and your doctor should decide if the benefit to you 
clearly outweighs the potential risk to yourself and your baby. 
If you are a woman of childbearing potential, you are advised to avoid becoming pregnant while using 
Entyvio. You should use adequate contraception during treatment and for at least 4.5 months after the 
last treatment.  
Breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding or planning to breast-feed. Entyvio passes into breast milk. 
There is not enough information on what effect this may have on your baby and on milk production. A 
decision must be made whether to stop breast-feeding or to stop using Entyvio therapy taking into 
account the benefit of breast-feeding for your child and the benefit of therapy for you. 
Driving and using machines 
This medicine has a minor effect on your ability to drive or use tools or machines. A small number of 
patients have felt dizzy after receiving Entyvio. If you feel dizzy, do not drive or use tools or 
machines. 
3. 
How Entyvio will be given 
How much Entyvio you will receive 
Treatment with Entyvio is the same for ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease and pouchitis. 
The recommended dose is 300 mg of Entyvio given as follows (see table below): 
Treatment (infusion) number 
Treatment 1 
Treatment 2 
Treatment 3 
Further treatments 
Timing of treatment (infusion) 
0 weeks 
2 weeks after Treatment 1 
6 weeks after Treatment 1 
Every 8 weeks 
Your doctor may decide to alter this treatment schedule depending on how well Entyvio works for 
you. 
• 
• 
The infusion will be given to you, by your doctor or nurse, through a drip in 1 of the veins in 
your arm (intravenous infusion) over about 30 minutes. 
For your first 2 infusions, your doctor or nurse will monitor you closely during the infusion and 
for approximately 2 hours after you have completed the infusion. For all subsequent infusions 
(after the first 2), you will be monitored during the infusion and for approximately 1 hour after 
you have completed the infusion. 
If you forget or miss your Entyvio infusion 
If you forget or miss an appointment to receive the infusion, make another appointment as soon as 
possible. 
If you stop using Entyvio 
Do not stop using Entyvio without talking with your doctor first. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects although not everybody gets them. 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious side effects 
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any of the following: 
• 
allergic reactions (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) - the signs may include: wheezing or 
difficulty breathing, hives, itching of the skin, swelling, feeling sick, pain at the infusion site, 
redness of skin and 
infections (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) - the signs may include: chills or shivering, high 
fever or rash 
• 
Other side effects  
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you notice any of the following: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
common cold 
joint pain 
headache 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
pneumonia 
infection of the large intestine due to Clostridium difficile bacteria 
fever  
chest infection  
tiredness 
cough 
flu (influenza) 
back pain 
throat pain 
sinus infection 
itching / itchiness 
rash and redness 
pain in the limb 
muscle cramps 
muscle weakness 
throat infection 
stomach flu 
anal infection 
anal sore 
hard faeces 
bloated stomach 
passing gas 
high blood pressure 
prickling or tingling 
heart burn 
haemorrhoids 
blocked nose 
eczema 
night sweats 
acne (pimples) 
rectal bleeding 
chest discomfort 
shingles (herpes zoster) 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
redness and tenderness of hair follicle 
throat and mouth yeast infection 
vaginal infection 
blurred vision (loss of sharpness of eyesight) 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
• 
sudden, severe allergic reaction which can cause breathing difficulty, swelling, fast heartbeat, 
sweating, drop in blood pressure, light-headedness, loss of consciousness and collapse 
(anaphylactic reaction and anaphylactic shock) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
lung disease causing shortness of breath (interstitial lung disease) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store Entyvio 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton after “EXP”. The expiry 
date refers to the last day of that month. 
Entyvio is given by a doctor or nurse and patients should not need to store or handle Entyvio. 
Entyvio is for single use only. 
Unopened vial: Store in a refrigerator (2 °C-8 °C). Keep the vial in the original carton in order to 
protect from light. 
Reconstituted and diluted solutions: Use immediately. If this is not possible, reconstituted solution 
in the vial can be stored for up to 8 hours at 2 °C-8 °C. Diluted solution in sodium chloride 9 mg/mL 
(0.9%) solution for injection can be stored up to 12 hours at a room temperature of not above 25 °C, or 
up to 24 hours in a refrigerator (2 °C-8 °C), or for up to 12 hours at room temperature and in a 
refrigerator (2 °C-8 °C), up to a combined total of 24 hours. A 24 hour period may include up to 
8 hours at 2 °C-8 °C for reconstituted solution in the vial and up to 12 hours at 20 °C-25 °C for diluted 
solution in the infusion bag but the infusion bag must be stored in the refrigerator (2 °C-8 °C) for the 
rest of the 24 hour period Any time that the reconstituted solution was held in the vial should be 
subtracted from the time the solution may be held in the infusion bag. 
Do not freeze. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice any particles in the liquid or discolouration (solution should be 
clear or opalescent, colourless to light yellow) prior to administration. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Entyvio contains 
• 
• 
The active substance is vedolizumab. Each vial contains 300 mg of vedolizumab. 
The other ingredients are L-histidine, L-histidine monohydrochloride, L-arginine 
hydrochloride, sucrose, and polysorbate 80. 
What Entyvio looks like and contents of the pack 
• 
Entyvio is a white to off-white powder for concentrate for solution for infusion provided in a 
glass vial with a rubber stopper and a plastic cap. 
Each pack of Entyvio consists of one vial.  
• 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
Manufacturer 
Takeda Austria GmbH 
St. Peter-Straße 25 
4020 Linz 
Austria 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Takeda Belgium NV 
Tél./Tel.: +32 2 464 06 11 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
България  
Такеда България ЕООД 
Тел.: +359 2 958 27 36 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Lietuva 
Takeda, UAB 
Tel.: +370 521 09 070 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Takeda Belgium NV 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 464 06 11 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com  
Česká republika 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Czech Republic s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 234 722 722 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Magyarország  
Takeda Pharma Kft. 
Tel.: +361 2707030  
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com  
Danmark  
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Tlf: +45 46 77 10 10 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Deutschland 
Takeda GmbH 
Tel.: +49 (0) 800 825 3325 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Malta 
Drugsales Ltd.  
Tel.: +356 21 419070 
safety@drugsalesltd.com 
Nederland 
Takeda Nederland B.V. 
Tel.: +31 20 203 5492 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eesti 
Takeda Pharma AS 
Tel.: +372 6177 669 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com  
Ελλάδα  
TAKEDA ΕΛΛΑΣ Α.Ε. 
Τηλ.: +30 210 6387800 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
España 
Takeda Farmacéutica España, S.A. 
Tel.: +34 917 90 42 22 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
France 
Takeda France SAS 
Tel.: +33 1 40 67 33 00 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Norge 
Takeda AS 
Tlf: +47 800 800 30 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Österreich 
Takeda Pharma Ges.m.b.H.  
Tel.: +43 (0) 800 20 80 50  
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Polska 
Takeda Pharma Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48223062447 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Portugal 
Takeda Farmacêuticos Portugal, Lda. 
Tel.: +351 21 120 1457 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Hrvatska 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 377 88 96 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
România  
Takeda Pharmaceuticals SRL 
Tel.: +40 21 335 03 91  
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Ireland 
Takeda Products Ireland Ltd. 
Tel.: 1800 937 970 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Simi: +354 535 7000 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Italia 
Takeda Italia S.p.A 
Tel.: +39 06 502601 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Κύπρος 
A.POTAMITIS MEDICARE LTD 
Τηλ: +357 22583333 
a.potamitismedicare@cytanet.com.cy 
Latvija 
Takeda Latvia SIA 
Tel.: +371 67840082 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Slovenija 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals farmacevtska družba d.o.o. 
Tel.: +386 (0) 59 082 480 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Slovenská republika 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel.: +421 (2) 20 602 600 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Suomi/Finland 
Takeda Oy 
Puh/Tel: 0800 774 051 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Sverige 
Takeda Pharma AB 
Tel: 020 795 079 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Takeda UK Ltd 
Tel.: +44 (0) 3333 000 181 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
This leaflet is available in formats suitable for the blind or partially sighted patient and can be 
requested from respective local representative of the Marketing Authorisation Holder. 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
74 
 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded 
Instructions for reconstitution and infusion 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
Use aseptic technique when preparing Entyvio solution for intravenous infusion. 
Remove flip-off cap from the vial and wipe with alcohol swab. Reconstitute vedolizumab with 
4.8 mL of sterile water for injections at room temperature (20 °C-25 °C), using a syringe with a 
21-25 gauge needle. 
Insert needle into the vial through the centre of the stopper and direct the stream of liquid to the 
wall of the vial to avoid excessive foaming. 
Gently swirl the vial for at least 15 seconds. Do not vigorously shake or invert. 
Let the vial sit for up to 20 minutes at room temperature (20 °C-25 °C), to allow for 
reconstitution and for any foam to settle; the vial can be swirled and inspected for dissolution 
during this time. If not fully dissolved after 20 minutes, allow another 10 minutes for 
dissolution. 
Inspect the reconstituted solution visually for particulate matter and discolouration prior to 
dilution. Solution should be clear or opalescent, colourless to light yellow and free of visible 
particulates. Reconstituted solution with uncharacteristic colour or containing particulates must 
not be administered. 
Once dissolved, gently invert vial 3 times. 
Immediately withdraw 5 mL (300 mg) of reconstituted Entyvio using a syringe with a 
21-25 gauge needle. 
Add the 5 mL (300 mg) of reconstituted Entyvio to 250 mL of sterile sodium chloride 9 mg/mL 
(0.9%) solution for injection, and gently mix the infusion bag (5 mL of sodium chloride 
9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection does not have to be withdrawn from the infusion bag 
prior to adding Entyvio). Do not add other medicinal products to the prepared infusion solution 
or intravenous infusion set. Administer the infusion solution over 30 minutes. 
Once reconstituted, the infusion solution should be used as soon as possible.  
Reconstituted solution in the vial 
Diluted solution in sodium chloride 9 mg/mL 
(0.9%) solution for injection 
Storage Condition 
Refrigerator 
(2 °C-8 °C) 
8 hours 
24 hours2, 3 
20 °C-25 °C 
Do not hold1 
12 hours2 
1 Up to 30 minutes are allowed for reconstitution 
2 This time assumes the reconstituted solution is immediately diluted in the sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) 
solution for injection and held in the infusion bag only. Any time that the reconstituted solution was held in the 
vial should be subtracted from the time the solution may be held in the infusion bag. 
3 This period may include up to 12 hours at 20 °C-25 °C. 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not freeze. Do not store any unused portion of the reconstituted solution or infusion solution for 
reuse. 
Each vial is for single use only. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
76 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
vedolizumab 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Entyvio is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Entyvio 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Entyvio 
Possible side effects 
How to store Entyvio 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Entyvio is and what it is used for 
What Entyvio is 
Entyvio contains the active substance ‘vedolizumab’. Vedolizumab belongs to a group of biological 
medicines called monoclonal antibodies (MAbs). 
How Entyvio works 
Entyvio works by blocking a protein on the surface of white blood cells that cause the inflammation in 
ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease. This reduces the amount of inflammation. 
What Entyvio is used for 
Entyvio is used to treat the signs and symptoms in adults of: 
• 
moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis 
• 
moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Ulcerative colitis is a disease that causes inflammation of the large bowel. If you have ulcerative 
colitis, you will first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough or cannot tolerate 
these medicines, your doctor may give you Entyvio to reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease.  
Crohn’s disease 
Crohn’s disease is a disease that causes inflammation of the digestive system. If you have Crohn’s 
disease you will first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough or cannot tolerate 
these medicines, your doctor may give you Entyvio to reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease.  
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you use Entyvio 
Do not use Entyvio 
• 
if you are allergic to vedolizumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
if you have an active severe infection - such as TB (tuberculosis), blood poisoning, severe 
diarrhoea and vomiting (gastroenteritis), nervous system infection. 
• 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Entyvio. 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately when you first use this medicine, during 
treatment, and between doses:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you experience blurred, loss of or double vision, difficulty speaking, weakness in an arm or a 
leg, a change in the way you walk or problems with your balance, persistent numbness, 
decreased sensation or loss of sensation, memory loss or confusion. These may all be symptoms 
of a serious and potentially fatal brain condition known as progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
if you have an infection, or think you have an infection -signs include chills, shivering, 
persistent cough or a high fever. Some infections may become serious and possibly even 
life-threatening if left untreated. 
if you experience signs of an allergic reaction such as wheezing, difficulty breathing, hives, 
itching, swelling or dizziness. For more detailed information, see allergic reactions in section 4. 
if you are going to receive any vaccination or have recently had a vaccination. Entyvio may 
affect the way you respond to a vaccination. 
if you have cancer, tell your doctor. Your doctor will have to decide if you can still be given 
Entyvio. 
if you are not feeling any better as vedolizumab may take up to 14 weeks to work in some 
patients with very active Crohn’s disease. 
Children and adolescents 
Entyvio is not recommended for use in children or adolescents (under 18 years of age) due to the lack 
of information regarding the use of this medicine in this age group. 
Other medicines and Entyvio 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
• 
Entyvio should not be given with other biologic medicines that suppress your immune system as 
the effect of this is not known. 
Tell your doctor if you have previously taken: 
• 
• 
Your doctor will decide if you can be given Entyvio.  
natalizumab (a medicine for multiple sclerosis) or  
rituximab (a medicine for certain types of cancer and rheumatoid arthritis). 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy 
The effects of Entyvio in pregnant women are not known. Therefore, this medicine is not 
recommended for use during pregnancy. You and your doctor should decide if the benefit to you 
clearly outweighs the potential risk to yourself and your baby. 
If you are a woman of childbearing potential, you are advised to avoid becoming pregnant while using 
Entyvio. You should use adequate contraception during treatment and for at least 4.5 months after the 
last treatment. 
Breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding or planning to breast-feed. Entyvio passes into breast milk. 
There is not enough information on what effect this may have on your baby and on milk production. A 
decision must be made whether to stop breast-feeding or to stop using Entyvio therapy taking into 
account the benefit of breast-feeding for your child and the benefit of therapy for you. 
Driving and using machines 
This medicine has a minor effect on your ability to drive or use tools or machines. A small number of 
patients have felt dizzy after receiving Entyvio. If you feel dizzy, do not drive or use tools or 
machines.  
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection contains sodium  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to use Entyvio 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
You or your caregiver will be given training on how to use Entyvio injections under the skin 
(subcutaneous injections). 
How much Entyvio you will receive 
Treatment with Entyvio is the same for ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease. 
The recommended dose is 108 mg of Entyvio administered by subcutaneous injection once every 
2 weeks. 
• 
At the start of treatment, the doctor will give initial doses of Entyvio through a drip into a vein 
in your arm (intravenous infusion) over about 30 minutes.  
After at least 2 intravenous infusions, you can start receiving Entyvio by a subcutaneous 
injection. The first subcutaneous injection is given at the time of the next scheduled intravenous 
infusion, and every 2 weeks thereafter.  
• 
Injecting Entyvio 
The subcutaneous injections can be given by yourself or a caregiver, after training on how to do it. 
Instructions are provided at the end of this leaflet. 
If you forget to take or miss your Entyvio injection 
If you forget or miss a dose, inject the next dose as soon as possible and then every 2 weeks thereafter.  
If you stop using Entyvio 
Do not stop using Entyvio without talking with your doctor first.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects although not everybody gets them. 
Serious side effects 
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any of the following: 
• 
allergic reactions (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) - the signs may include: wheezing or 
difficulty breathing, hives, itching of the skin, swelling, feeling sick, redness of skin  
infections (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) - the signs may include: chills or shivering, high 
fever or rash 
• 
Other side effects 
 Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you notice any of the following: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
common cold 
joint pain 
headache  
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
pneumonia 
infection of the large intestine due to Clostridium difficile bacteria 
fever 
chest infection 
tiredness 
cough 
flu (influenza) 
back pain 
throat pain 
sinus infection 
itching / itchiness 
rash and redness 
pain in the limb 
muscle cramps 
muscle weakness 
throat infection 
stomach flu 
anal infection 
anal sore 
hard faeces 
bloated stomach 
passing gas 
high blood pressure 
prickling or tingling 
heart burn 
haemorrhoids 
blocked nose 
eczema 
night sweats 
acne (pimples) 
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching) 
shingles (herpes zoster) 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
redness and tenderness of hair follicle 
throat and mouth yeast infection 
vaginal infection 
blurred vision (loss of sharpness of eyesight) 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
• 
sudden, severe allergic reaction which can cause breathing difficulty, swelling, fast heartbeat, 
sweating, drop in blood pressure, light-headedness, loss of consciousness and collapse 
(anaphylactic reaction and anaphylactic shock) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
lung disease causing shortness of breath (interstitial lung disease) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Entyvio 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton after “EXP”. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Entyvio is for single use only. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C-8 °C). Keep the pre-filled syringe(s) in the original carton in order 
to protect from light. If needed, one pre-filled syringe can be left out of the refrigerator 
protected from light at room temperature (up to 25 °C) for up to 7 days. Do not use if left out of 
the refrigerator for more than 7 days. 
Do not freeze. Do not leave in direct sunlight. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice any particles in the liquid or discolouration (should be 
colourless to yellow) prior to administration. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist 
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the 
environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Entyvio contains 
• 
• 
The active substance is vedolizumab. Each pre-filled syringe contains 108 mg of vedolizumab. 
The other ingredients are citric acid monohydrate, sodium citrate dihydrate, L-histidine, 
L-histidine monohydrochloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, polysorbate 80 and water for 
injections.  
What Entyvio looks like and contents of the pack 
• 
Entyvio is a colourless to yellow solution for injection provided in a glass pre-filled syringe 
with a needle safety device that activates to extend and lock a guard over the needle once the 
injection is completed. The syringe has a rubber needle cover encased in a plastic shell and 
rubber stopper. 
Entyvio is available in cartons containing 1 or 2 pre-filled syringes and in multipacks containing 
6 (6x1) pre-filled syringes. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
• 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
Manufacturer 
Takeda Austria GmbH 
St. Peter-Straße 25 
4020 Linz 
Austria 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Takeda Belgium NV 
Tél./Tel.: +32 2 464 06 11 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
България  
Такеда България ЕООД 
Тел.: +359 2 958 27 36 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Lietuva 
Takeda, UAB 
Tel.: +370 521 09 070 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Takeda Belgium NV 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 464 06 11 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Česká republika 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Czech Republic s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 234 722 722 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Magyarország  
Takeda Pharma Kft. 
Tel.: +361 2707030  
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Danmark  
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Tlf: +45 46 77 10 10 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Deutschland 
Takeda GmbH 
Tel.: +49 (0) 800 825 3325 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Eesti 
Takeda Pharma AS 
Tel.: +372 6177 669 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Ελλάδα  
TAKEDA ΕΛΛΑΣ Α.Ε. 
Τηλ.: +30 210 6387800 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
España 
Takeda Farmacéutica España, S.A. 
Tel.: +34 917 90 42 22 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Malta 
Drugsales Ltd 
Tel.: +356 21 419070 
safety@drugsalesltd.com 
Nederland 
Takeda Nederland B.V. 
Tel.: +31 20 203 5492 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Norge 
Takeda AS 
Tlf.: +47 800 800 30 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Österreich 
Takeda Pharma Ges.m.b.H. 
Tel.: +43 (0) 800 20 80 50  
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Polska 
Takeda Pharma Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48223062447 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
France 
Takeda France SAS 
Tel.: +33 1 40 67 33 00 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Portugal 
Takeda Farmacêuticos Portugal, Lda. 
Tel.: +351 21 120 1457 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Hrvatska 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 377 88 96 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
România  
Takeda Pharmaceuticals SRL 
Tel.: +40 21 335 03 91  
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Ireland 
Takeda Products Ireland Ltd. 
Tel.: 1800 937 970 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Italia 
Takeda Italia S.p.A 
Tel.: +39 06 502601 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Κύπρος 
A.POTAMITIS MEDICARE LTD 
Τηλ: +357 22583333 
a.potamitismedicare@cytanet.com.cy 
Latvija 
Takeda Latvia SIA 
Tel.: +371 67840082 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Slovenija 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals farmacevtska družba d.o.o. 
Tel.: +386 (0) 59 082 480  
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Slovenská republika 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel.: +421 (2) 20 602 600 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Suomi/Finland 
Takeda Oy 
Puh./Tel.: 0800 774 051 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Sverige 
Takeda Pharma AB 
Tel: 020 795 079 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Takeda UK Ltd 
Tel.: +44 (0) 3333 000 181 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
This leaflet is available in formats suitable for the blind or partially sighted patient and can be 
requested from respective local representative of the Marketing Authorisation Holder. 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for use: 
Read and follow these instructions before you inject. Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist should show 
you how to use the Entyvio pre-filled syringe before you use it for the first time. 
Your Entyvio single-dose pre-filled syringe 
Before Use 
Needle guard  Medicine  Needle 
Purple plunger 
Finger Grip 
Spring 
Needle cap 
After Use 
Needle guard 
Covered needle 
Each pre-filled syringe has a needle guard. It will automatically cover the needle after the plunger is 
pushed down as far as it will go and then released. 
Wait 30 minutes 
1)  Place what you need for the injection on a clean, flat surface 
  Take the pre-filled syringe carton out of the refrigerator. 
• 
If you are opening the carton for the first time, check to 
make sure the carton is properly sealed. Do not use the 
pre-filled syringe(s) if any of the seals on the carton are 
broken or missing. 
•  Check the expiry date (EXP) on the carton. Do not use if the 
expiry date on the carton has passed. 
•  Remove one pre-filled syringe from the carton. Keep any 
remaining pre-filled syringes in the carton in the refrigerator. 
  Wait 30 minutes to let the pre-filled syringe come to room 
temperature.  
•  Do not warm the pre-filled syringe in any other way. 
•  Do not let it sit in direct sunlight.  
•  Do not take the pre-filled syringe out of its tray until you are 
ready to inject. 
84 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  You will also need: 
•  Alcohol pad  
•  Cotton ball or gauze  
•  Sharps disposal container 
2)  Open and check the pre-filled syringe 
  Wash your hands  
  Peel back the paper on the tray and lift the pre-filled syringe out 
by the body. 
•  Do not touch or lift from the purple plunger. 
•  Do not remove the needle cap until ready to inject. 
 
Inspect the pre-filled syringe for damage. 
•  Do not use the pre-filled syringe if any part of it is damaged. 
  Check the expiry date on the pre-filled syringe.  
•  Do not use if the expiry date on the pre-filled syringe has 
passed. 
  Check the medicine. It should be colourless to yellow.  
•  Do not use the pre-filled syringe if the medicine is cloudy or 
has particles floating in it. 
  You may see air bubbles in the syringe. This is normal. 
•  Do not attempt to remove air bubbles from the pre-filled 
syringe. 
•  Do not shake 
3)  Prepare the injection site 
  Choose an injection site on your bare skin from 1 of the 
following.  
•  Front of the thighs, or 
•  Stomach area (abdomen) except for the area 5 cm around the 
belly button (navel), or 
•  Back of the upper arm (only if a caregiver gives the 
injection). 
  Use a new injection site or a different area within the same 
injection site for each injection. 
•  Do not inject into moles, scars, bruises, or skin that is tender, 
hard, red, or damaged. 
  Wipe the chosen site with an alcohol pad. Let your skin dry.  
•  Do not touch this area again before you inject.  
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4) Inject Entyvio 
  Pull the needle cap straight off.  
•  Do not touch or pull back the purple plunger. 
•  You may see a drop of liquid at the end of the needle.  
This is normal. 
•  Do not touch or re-cap the needle. 
•  Do not use a dropped pre-filled syringe. 
•  Do not use a pre-filled syringe with a bent or broken needle. 
  Throw away the cap. 
  Hold the pre-filled syringe with 1 hand and pinch the skin around 
the injection site with your other hand. 
•  Hold the pinch until the injection is completed. 
 
Insert the needle at about a 45-degree angle all the way into the 
pinched skin. 
  Push down on the plunger as far as it will go to inject all the 
medicine. 
•  Keep pressure on the plunger and take the needle out of the 
skin. 
  Take your thumb off the plunger to allow the needle guard to 
cover the needle. 
  You may see a small amount of blood at the injection site. If you 
do, press on your skin with a cotton ball or gauze. 
5) Throw away used material 
  Put the used pre-filled syringe in a puncture-resistant container, 
like a sharps container, immediately after use. 
•  Dispose of your sharps container according to your local 
regulations. 
  The rest of the material can be thrown in your household 
rubbish. 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
vedolizumab 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
•  Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
• 
•  This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
• 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Entyvio is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Entyvio 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Entyvio 
Possible side effects 
How to store Entyvio 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Entyvio is and what it is used for 
What Entyvio is 
Entyvio contains the active substance ‘vedolizumab’. Vedolizumab belongs to a group of biological 
medicines called monoclonal antibodies (MAbs). 
How Entyvio works 
Entyvio works by blocking a protein on the surface of white blood cells that cause the inflammation in 
ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease. This reduces the amount of inflammation. 
What Entyvio is used for 
Entyvio is used to treat the signs and symptoms in adults of: 
• 
moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis 
• 
moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Ulcerative colitis is a disease that causes inflammation of the large bowel. If you have ulcerative 
colitis, you will first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough or cannot tolerate 
these medicines, your doctor may give you Entyvio to reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease. 
Crohn’s disease 
Crohn’s disease is a disease that causes inflammation of the digestive system. If you have Crohn’s 
disease you will first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough or cannot tolerate 
these medicines, your doctor may give you Entyvio to reduce the signs and symptoms of your disease. 
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you use Entyvio 
Do not use Entyvio 
• 
if you are allergic to vedolizumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
if you have an active severe infection - such as TB (tuberculosis), blood poisoning, severe 
diarrhoea and vomiting (gastroenteritis), nervous system infection. 
• 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Entyvio. 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse immediately when you first use this medicine, during 
treatment, and between doses: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you experience blurred, loss of or double vision, difficulty speaking, weakness in an arm or a 
leg, a change in the way you walk or problems with your balance, persistent numbness, 
decreased sensation or loss of sensation, memory loss or confusion. These may all be symptoms 
of a serious and potentially fatal brain condition known as progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
if you have an infection, or think you have an infection – signs include chills, shivering, 
persistent cough or a high fever. Some infections may become serious and possibly even 
life-threatening if left untreated. 
if you experience signs of an allergic reaction such as wheezing, difficulty breathing, hives, 
itching, swelling or dizziness. For more detailed information, see allergic reactions in section 4. 
if you are going to receive any vaccination or have recently had a vaccination. Entyvio may 
affect the way you respond to a vaccination. 
if you have cancer, tell your doctor. Your doctor will have to decide if you can still be given 
Entyvio. 
if you are not feeling any better as vedolizumab may take up to 14 weeks to work in some 
patients with very active Crohn’s disease. 
Children and adolescents 
Entyvio is not recommended for use in children or adolescents (under 18 years of age) due to the lack 
of information regarding the use of this medicine in this age group. 
Other medicines and Entyvio 
Tell your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
• 
Entyvio should not be given with other biologic medicines that suppress your immune system as 
the effect of this is not known. 
Tell your doctor if you have previously taken: 
• 
• 
Your doctor will decide if you can be given Entyvio. 
natalizumab (a medicine for multiple sclerosis) or 
rituximab (a medicine for certain types of cancer and rheumatoid arthritis). 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding  
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy 
The effects of Entyvio in pregnant women are not known. Therefore, this medicine is not 
recommended for use during pregnancy. You and your doctor should decide if the benefit to you 
clearly outweighs the potential risk to yourself and your baby. 
If you are a woman of childbearing potential, you are advised to avoid becoming pregnant while using 
Entyvio. You should use adequate contraception during treatment and for at least 4.5 months after the 
last treatment. 
Breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding or planning to breast-feed. Entyvio passes into breast milk. 
There is not enough information on what effect this may have on your baby and on milk production. A 
decision must be made whether to stop breast-feeding or to stop using Entyvio therapy taking into 
account the benefit of breast-feeding for your child and the benefit of therapy for you. 
Driving and using machines 
This medicine has a minor effect on your ability to drive or use tools or machines. A small number of 
patients have felt dizzy after receiving Entyvio. If you feel dizzy, do not drive or use tools or 
machines. 
Entyvio 108 mg solution for injection contains sodium  
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to use Entyvio 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
You or your caregiver will be given training on how to use Entyvio injections under the skin 
(subcutaneous injections). 
How much Entyvio you will receive 
Treatment with Entyvio is the same for ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease.  
The recommended dose is 108 mg of Entyvio administered by subcutaneous injection once every 
2 weeks. 
• 
• 
At the start of treatment, the doctor will give initial doses of Entyvio through a drip into a vein 
in your arm (intravenous infusion) over about 30 minutes. 
After at least 2 intravenous infusions, you can start receiving Entyvio by a subcutaneous 
injection. The first subcutaneous injection is given at the time of the next scheduled intravenous 
infusion, and every 2 weeks thereafter. 
Injecting Entyvio 
The subcutaneous injections can be given by yourself or a caregiver, after training on how to do it. 
Instructions are provided at the end of this leaflet. 
If you forget to take or miss your Entyvio injection 
If you forget or miss a dose, inject the next dose as soon as possible and then every 2 weeks thereafter. 
If you stop using Entyvio 
Do not stop using Entyvio without talking with your doctor first.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor pharmacist or nurse. 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects although not everybody gets them. 
Serious side effects  
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any of the following: 
•  allergic reactions (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) - the signs may include: wheezing or 
• 
difficulty breathing, hives, itching of the skin, swelling, feeling sick, redness of skin and  
infections (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) - the signs may include: chills or shivering, high 
fever or rash 
Other side effects  
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you notice any of the following: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
common cold 
joint pain 
headache  
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
pneumonia 
infection of the large intestine due to Clostridium difficile bacteria 
fever  
chest infection  
tiredness 
cough 
flu (influenza) 
back pain 
throat pain 
sinus infection 
itching / itchiness 
rash and redness 
pain in the limb 
muscle cramps 
muscle weakness 
throat infection 
stomach flu 
anal infection 
anal sore 
hard faeces 
bloated stomach 
passing gas 
high blood pressure 
prickling or tingling 
heart burn 
haemorrhoids 
blocked nose 
eczema 
night sweats 
acne (pimples) 
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching) 
shingles (herpes zoster) 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
redness and tenderness of hair follicle  
throat and mouth yeast infection 
vaginal infection 
blurred vision (loss of sharpness of eyesight) 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
• 
sudden, severe allergic reaction which can cause breathing difficulty, swelling, fast heartbeat, 
sweating, drop in blood pressure, light-headedness, loss of consciousness and collapse 
(anaphylactic reaction and anaphylactic shock) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
lung disease causing shortness of breath (interstitial lung disease) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Entyvio 
•  Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
•  Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton after “EXP”. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
•  Entyvio is for single use only. 
•  Store in a refrigerator (2 °C-8 °C). Keep the pre-filled pen(s) in the original carton in order to 
protect from light. If needed, one pre-filled pen can be left out of the refrigerator protected 
from light at room temperature (up to 25 oC) for up to 7 days. Do not use if left out of the 
refrigerator for more than 7 days. 
•  Do not freeze. Do not leave in direct sunlight. 
•  Do not use this medicine if you notice any particles in the liquid or discolouration (should be 
colourless to yellow) prior to administration. 
•  Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist 
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the 
environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Entyvio contains 
•  The active substance is vedolizumab. Each pre-filled pen contains 108 mg of vedolizumab.  
•  The other ingredients are citric acid monohydrate, sodium citrate dihydrate, L-histidine, 
L-histidine monohydrochloride, L-arginine hydrochloride, polysorbate 80 and water for 
injections. 
What Entyvio looks like and contents of the pack 
•  Entyvio is a colourless to yellow solution for injection provided in a glass pre-filled pen 
equipped with an automated needle shield to extend and lock over the needle once the device 
is removed from the injection site. 
•  Entyvio is available in cartons containing 1 or 2 pre-filled pens and in multipacks containing 
6 (6x1) pre-filled pens. Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Delta Park 45 
2665 Vallensbaek Strand 
Denmark 
Manufacturer 
Takeda Austria GmbH 
St. Peter-Straße 25 
4020 Linz 
Austria 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Takeda Belgium NV 
Tél./Tel.: +32 2 464 06 11 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
България  
Такеда България ЕООД 
Тел.: +359 2 958 27 36 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Lietuva 
Takeda, UAB 
Tel.: +370 521 09 070 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Takeda Belgium NV 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 464 06 11 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Česká republika 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Czech Republic s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 234 722 722 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Magyarország  
Takeda Pharma Kft. 
Tel.: +361 2707030 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Danmark  
Takeda Pharma A/S 
Tlf: +45 46 77 10 10 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Deutschland 
Takeda GmbH 
Tel.: +49 (0) 800 825 3325 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Eesti 
Takeda Pharma AS 
Tel.: +372 6177 669 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Ελλάδα  
TAKEDA ΕΛΛΑΣ Α.Ε. 
Τηλ.: +30 210 6387800 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
España 
Takeda Farmacéutica España, S.A. 
Tel.: +34 917 90 42 22 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Malta 
Drugsales Ltd  
Tel.: +356 21 419070 
safety@drugsalesltd.com 
Nederland 
Takeda Nederland B.V. 
Tel.: +31 20 203 5492 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Norge 
Takeda AS 
Tlf: +47 800 800 30 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Österreich 
Takeda Pharma Ges.m.b.H.  
Tel.: +43 (0) 800 20 80 50 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Polska 
Takeda Pharma Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48223062447 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
France 
Takeda France SAS 
Tel.: +33 1 40 67 33 00 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Portugal 
Takeda Farmacêuticos Portugal, Lda. 
Tel.: +351 21 120 1457 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Hrvatska 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Croatia d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 377 88 96 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
România  
Takeda Pharmaceuticals SRL 
Tel.: +40 21 335 03 91 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Ireland 
Takeda Products Ireland Ltd. 
Tel.: 1800 937 970 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Simi: +354 535 7000 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Italia 
Takeda Italia S.p.A 
Tel.: +39 06 502601 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Κύπρος 
A.POTAMITIS MEDICARE LTD 
Τηλ: +357 22583333 
a.potamitismedicare@cytanet.com.cy 
Latvija 
Takeda Latvia SIA 
Tel.: +371 67840082 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Other sources of information 
Slovenija 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals farmacevtska družba d.o.o. 
Tel.: +386 (0) 59 082 480 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Slovenská republika 
Takeda Pharmaceuticals Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel.: +421 (2) 20 602 600 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Suomi/Finland 
Takeda Oy 
Puh./Tel.: 0800 774 051 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
Sverige 
Takeda Pharma AB 
Tel.: 020 795 079 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Takeda UK Ltd 
Tel.: +44 (0) 3333 000 181 
medinfoEMEA@takeda.com 
This leaflet is available in formats suitable for the blind or partially sighted patient and can be 
requested from respective local representative of the Marketing Authorisation Holder. 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for use: 
Read and follow these instructions before you inject. Your doctor, nurse or pharmacist should show 
you how to use the Entyvio pre-filled pen before you use it for the first time. 
Your Entyvio single-dose pre-filled pen 
Before Use 
Purple Cap 
Viewing window 
After Use 
Yellow needle shield 
Viewing window 
(Completed Injection) 
Wait 30 minutes 
1)  Place what you need for the injection on a clean, flat surface  
  Take the pre-filled pen carton out of the refrigerator. 
• 
If you are opening the carton for the first time, check to make 
sure the carton is properly sealed. Do not use the pre-filled 
pen(s) if any of the seals on the carton are broken or missing. 
•  Check the expiry date (EXP) on the carton. Do not use if the 
expiry date on the carton has passed. 
•  Remove one pre-filled pen from the carton. Keep any 
remaining pre-filled pens in the carton in the refrigerator. 
  Wait 30 minutes to let the pre-filled pen come to room 
temperature.  
•  Do not warm the pre-filled pen in any other way. 
•  Do not let it sit in direct sunlight.  
•  Do not take the pre-filled pen out of its tray until you are ready 
to inject. 
  You will also need: 
•  Alcohol pad  
•  Cotton ball or gauze  
•  Sharps disposal container 
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2)  Open and check the pre-filled pen 
  Wash your hands.  
  Peel back the paper on the tray and lift the pre-filled pen out. 
 
Inspect the pre-filled pen for damage. 
•  Do not use the pre-filled pen if any part of it is damaged. 
  Check the expiry date on the pre-filled pen.  
•  Do not use if the expiry date on the pre-filled pen has passed. 
  Check the medicine. It should be colourless to yellow.  
•  Do not use the pre-filled pen if the medicine is cloudy or has 
particles floating in it. 
  You may see air bubbles in the pre-filled pen. This is normal. 
•  Do not shake 
3)  Prepare the injection site 
  Choose an injection site on your bare skin from 1 of  
 the following.  
•  Front of the thighs, or 
•  Stomach area (abdomen) except for the area 5 cm around the 
belly button (navel), or 
•  Back of the upper arm (only if a caregiver gives the injection). 
  Use a new injection site or a different area within the same 
injection site for each injection. 
•  Do not inject into moles, scars, bruises, or skin that is tender, 
hard, red, or damaged. 
  Wipe the chosen site with an alcohol pad. Let your skin dry.  
•  Do not touch this area again before you inject.  
  Pull the purple cap straight off and throw it away.  
•  Do not put or press thumb, fingers or hand over the yellow 
needle shield.  
•  Do not re-cap the pre-filled pen. 
•  Do not use a dropped pre-filled pen. 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4) Inject Entyvio 
  Hold the pre-filled pen so you can see the viewing window. 
  Place the pre-filled pen at 90 degrees to the injection site. 
•  Be sure the yellow end is toward the injection site. 
•  Do not push down until you are ready to inject. 
  Push down on the pre-filled pen as far as it will go to begin the 
injection. 
PUSH 
  Hold and count to 10 while pushing down with constant pressure. 
This will allow all of the medicine to be injected. 
•  You may hear 2 clicks, one at the start and one near the end of 
HOLD 
(Count to 10) 
the injection. 
CONFIRM 
  Confirm that the viewing window is filled with purple before 
you stop pushing. 
•  You will see a small amount of grey in the window. This is 
normal. 
  Lift the pre-filled pen from the injection site. 
•  The yellow needle shield will drop down and lock over the 
• 
needle. 
If the viewing window did not fill completely, call your doctor, 
nurse or pharmacist. You may not have received your full dose 
of medicine. 
  You may see a small amount of blood at the injection site.  
 If you do, press on your skin with a cotton ball or gauze. 
5) Throw away used material 
  Put the used pre-filled pen in a puncture-resistant container, like a 
sharps container, immediately after use. 
•  Dispose of your sharps container according to your local 
regulations. 
  The rest of the material can be thrown away in your household 
rubbish. 
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
