Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan 
Summary of risk management plan for Entyvio (vedolizumab) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Entyvio. The RMP details important 
risks of Entyvio, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Entyvio’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Entyvio’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Entyvio should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Entyvio should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Entyvio’s 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Entyvio is authorised for ulcerative colitis, Crohn’s disease and chronic pouchitis (see SmPC for 
the full indications). It contains vedolizumab as the active substance and it is available as powder 
for concentrate for solution for infusion and as solution for injection, to be administered by 
intravenous infusion or by subcutaneous injection (ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease only) 
respectively. 
Further information about the evaluation of Entyvio’s benefits can be found in Entyvio’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/entyvio 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise
the risks
Important risks of Entyvio, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Entyvio’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
•
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the
medicine is used correctly;
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with or
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Entyvio is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Entyvio are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Entyvio. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
• None
Important potential risks 
• None
Missing information 
•
Long-term safety
II.B Summary of important risks
Missing information: Long-term Safety 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
No risk minimisation measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
MLN0002SC-3030 
See Section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
II.C. Post-authorisation development plan
II.C.1. Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Entyvio. 
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorisation development plan
MLN0002SC-3030: A Phase 3b Open-label Study to Determine the Long-Term Safety and 
Efficacy of Vedolizumab Subcutaneous in Subjects with Ulcerative Colitis and Crohn’s Disease. 
Purpose of the study: To obtain data on long-term safety and tolerability of vedolizumab SC in 
subjects with UC or CD. 
