EMA/322302/2014 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Envarsus (tacrolimus) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Envarsus, which details the measures to be 
taken in order to ensure that Envarsus is used as safely as possible. For more information on RMP 
summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Envarsus, which can be found on Envarsus’ EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Envarsus is a medicine given to adults to help prevent the body’s immune system from attacking and 
rejecting a transplanted kidney or liver. It can also be given to treat an ongoing rejection, when 
previous treatment has failed. 
Although the number of organ transplants carried out in the European Union (EU) varies quite 
significantly from country to country, on average about 14 organ transplantation procedures are 
performed per million people per year. Around 70% of these (about 15,000 in the EU) are kidney 
transplants and another 20% are liver transplants. Worldwide, at the end of 2003 approximately 
400,000 patients were living with a kidney transplant, and this number has steadily increased since 
1990. Nearly all people who receive a transplanted organ will require lifelong treatment to prevent 
rejection. 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Envarsus is a medicine that contains the active substance tacrolimus. It is similar to a reference 
medicine called Advagraf that also contains tacrolimus, but Envarsus has been formulated in a different 
way and is available at different doses. Envarsus is available as prolonged-released tablets (tablets 
that allow tacrolimus to be released slowly from the tablet over several hours and in a form that the 
body can absorb easily). It is taken once a day. 
Envarsus has been investigated in 24 clinical studies involving over 1,000 people, including healthy 
volunteers, adult kidney transplant patients and adult liver transplant patients. In addition, as 
medicines containing tacrolimus have been used for almost 20 years, results of studies and 
experiences with other tacrolimus medicines have been taken into account during the evaluation of 
Envarsus. 
Envarsus has been shown to be at least as effective as Prograf, an immediate-release tacrolimus 
medicine (one that releases tacrolimus more quickly), in two main studies in patients with kidney 
transplants. The main measure of effectiveness in both studies was the number of patients who had 
treatment failure (death, failure or rejection of the transplanted organ, or loss of the patient from 
follow-up) after 12 months.  
The first study involved 326 patients who had already had a kidney transplant and were being treated 
with Prograf and other immunosuppressants to prevent rejection. Patients were either switched to 
Page 1/7 
 
 
treatment with Envarsus once daily or continued Prograf treatment twice daily. Failure rates were 
2.5% in both groups (4 of 162 patients treated with Envarsus, and 4 of 162 treated with Prograf). The 
second study compared Envarsus with Prograf as part of standard treatment in 543 patients with a 
newly transplanted kidney. Treatment failure occurred in 18.3% patients treated with Envarsus (49 out 
of 268), and 19.6% given Prograf (54 out of 257). 
The company also provided studies on the levels of tacrolimus in the body after taking Envarsus, which 
showed that it produced levels of tacrolimus that have been previously shown to be effective in 
treating and preventing rejection, and reported results in 29 patients who were given Envarsus starting 
after a liver transplant, none of whom rejected the transplanted organ during the 360 days following 
transplantation. 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
There is only limited evidence from studies as to the appropriate dose of Envarsus in non-white 
patients. Compared with white patients, black patients may need higher tacrolimus doses for the 
medicine to work properly.  
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Altered blood levels of 
Some other medicines, (particularly 
Care is needed when 
tacrolimus when 
medicines that react with an enzyme called 
administering tacrolimus with 
other medicines are 
CYP3A4), including over-the-counter and 
other medicines, particularly 
taken (interaction 
herbal medicines, may increase or decrease 
those listed in the product 
with other 
medication) 
the blood levels of tacrolimus and so affect 
information, and patients must 
its action or the risk of side effects. 
tell their doctors if they are 
taking or plan to take other 
medicines. Tacrolimus blood 
levels should be regularly 
checked and adjusted to make 
sure that there is the correct 
level of tacrolimus in the 
patient’s blood, particularly 
when taking other medicines. 
High blood pressure 
Patients with high blood pressure are at 
Blood pressure should be 
(hypertension) 
greater risk of developing heart problems 
monitored regularly during the 
associated with the tacrolimus treatment. 
period just after 
transplantation, and a change 
in treatment should be 
considered if significant 
increases in blood pressure 
occur. 
Problems with the 
Medicines containing tacrolimus can 
Eye tests and tests to check the 
nervous system or 
produce side effects affecting the nervous 
normal functioning of the 
eyes (neurological 
system such as headache and tremor 
nervous system should be 
and visual disorders) 
(shaking), which are known to occur in 
carried out regularly during the 
more than 1 patient in 10, while problems 
period just after 
Page 2/7 
 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
such as dizziness, pins and needles 
transplantation, and a change 
(paraesthesia), altered sensation 
in treatment should be 
(dysaesthesia), fits (seizures) may occur in 
considered if significant 
up to one patient in 10. They can also 
problems occur. 
produce effects on the eyes such as blurred 
vision and inability to bear bright light 
(photophobia). 
Posterior reversible 
Patients treated with tacrolimus have been 
If patients taking tacrolimus 
encephalopathy 
reported to develop posterior reversible 
have any symptoms of PRES, a 
syndrome  
encephalopathy syndrome (PRES), a rare 
radiological scan (e.g. MRI) 
nervous system disorder involving an 
should be performed. If PRES is 
increase in blood pressure, headaches, 
diagnosed, the symptoms 
abnormal mental state, seizures and vision 
should be treated and the use 
loss.  
of tacrolimus should be stopped 
immediately. Most patients 
completely recover. 
Effects on control of 
Tacrolimus-containing medicines very 
Blood sugar levels should be 
blood sugar 
commonly cause high blood sugar levels 
monitored regularly during the 
(diabetogenicity) 
and diabetes (in more than 1 patient in 10). 
period just after 
transplantation, and a change 
in treatment should be 
considered if significant 
problems occur. 
Changes in levels of 
Patients taking medicines that contain 
Electrolytes (particularly 
salts (electrolytes) in 
tacrolimus may have changes in the levels 
potassium) in the blood should 
the blood 
of various electrolytes in their blood. In 
be monitored regularly during 
particular, more than 1 patient in 10 may 
the period just after 
have increased levels of potassium. 
transplantation, and a change 
in treatment should be 
considered if significant 
problems occur. 
Liver function 
In patients whose liver does not work 
In patients with hepatic 
problems (hepatic 
properly, blood levels of tacrolimus may 
dysfunction reduced doses of 
dysfunction) 
change significantly. 
tacrolimus may be needed and 
levels of tacrolimus in the blood 
should be carefully checked and 
adjusted. 
Kidney function 
Reduced kidney function occurs in more 
Kidney function should be 
problems (renal 
than 1 patient in 10 taking tacrolimus. 
monitored carefully in patients 
dysfunction) 
taking tacrolimus. 
Changes in blood cell 
Changes in blood cell counts are seen in up 
Blood cell counts should be 
counts  
to 1 patient in 10 treated with tacrolimus. 
carried out regularly during the 
period just after 
transplantation, and a change 
in treatment should be 
considered if significant 
problems occur. 
Pure red cell aplasia 
Cases of pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) have  Warnings and precautionary 
Page 3/7 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
(a type of anaemia 
been reported in patients treated with 
information are provided in the 
affecting red blood 
tacrolimus. However, all of the patients had 
product information. 
cells only) 
other risk factors (e.g. because they had an 
infection with a virus called parvovirus B19, 
or had an underlying disease or were taking 
other medicines thought to lead to PRCA). 
Problems with blood 
Coagulopathies occur uncommonly (in up to 
Blood clotting should be 
clotting 
1 patient in 100) in patients treated with 
monitored regularly during the 
(coagulopathies) 
tacrolimus. 
period just after 
transplantation, and a change 
in treatment should be 
considered if significant 
problems occur. 
Medication errors 
Envarsus and other medicines containing 
Warning and precautionary 
tacrolimus are not interchangeable. 
information about medication 
Mistakes such as inadvertently changing the 
errors is provided in the 
type of tacrolimus medicine (e.g. swapping 
product information. If a 
a once-daily medicine for a twice-daily 
prescriber considers that 
medicine), have occurred with tacrolimus 
switching a patient to a 
medicines, and can lead to toxicity or 
different tacrolimus product 
rejection of the transplanted organ. The risk 
would be of benefit, the change 
of inadvertent use of the wrong form of 
requires careful supervision and 
tacrolimus is increased by the co-existence 
monitoring by an appropriate 
of numerous products.  
specialist. 
Additional means of alerting 
healthcare professionals and 
patients to the risks 
(educational materials and 
measures such as patient 
cards) will be agreed as 
appropriate at national level 
with the national competent 
authorities. 
In case of diarrhoea, the 
Diarrhoea 
If patients experience episodes of 
diarrhoea, blood levels of tacrolimus may 
patient’s tacrolimus blood levels 
change significantly. 
should be checked and adjusted 
to make sure that there is the 
correct level of tacrolimus in 
the patient’s blood. Patients 
who have diarrhoea for more 
than one day should speak to 
their doctor. 
Problems with the 
Problems affecting the gut, including ulcers, 
Patients should be monitored 
stomach and 
intestines 
have been reported in transplant patients 
for more serious 
including those on tacrolimus. Symptoms 
gastrointestinal problems such 
(gastrointestinal 
reported include nausea (feeling sick) and 
as ulcers. 
disorders) 
diarrhoea, which may occur in more than 
one patient in 10. 
Page 4/7 
 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Heart problems 
Although uncommon (seen in less than one 
High-risk patients should be 
(cardiac disorders) 
patient in 100), enlargement of some parts 
monitored using scans 
of the heart has been seen in patients 
(echocardiography) or checks 
treated with tacrolimus. Most cases have 
on the electrical activity of the 
been reversible, and have been caused by 
heart (ECG). If these become 
very high blood levels of tacrolimus. The 
abnormal, the tacrolimus dose 
risk may be increased by heart disease, use 
can be lowered, or another 
of corticosteroid medicines, high blood 
immunosuppressive medicine 
pressure, poor kidney or liver function, 
can be used.  
infections, fluid overload and oedema (fluid 
Tacrolimus should be given with 
build-up in the body).  
extra care to patients who have 
Tacrolimus may also alter the electrical 
or are suspected to have an 
activity of the heart (prolonged QT interval) 
inborn problem with the 
and may be associated with irregular heart 
electrical activity of the heart 
rhythm (arrhythmias). 
called ‘congenital long QT 
syndrome’. 
Disorders where too 
Patients treated with tacrolimus have been 
Infection with EBV should be 
many white blood 
reported to develop lymphoproliferative 
checked before starting 
cells are produced 
disorders including a type associated with 
treatment with Envarsus. 
(lymphoproliferative 
infection with a virus called EBV (Epstein 
During treatment, careful 
disorders) 
Barr virus). The risk of this is higher when 
monitoring for EBV is 
patients need a combination of other 
recommended.  
immunosuppressive medicines with 
tacrolimus. 
Cancer (neoplasms) 
As with other immunosuppressant 
Because of the potential risk of 
medicines, patients are at increased risk of 
cancerous skin changes, 
developing cancer, including skin cancer, as 
exposure to sunlight and UV 
well as benign growths. 
light should be limited by 
wearing protective clothing and 
using a sunscreen with a high 
protection factor. 
Unusual infections 
Patients treated with any 
Opportunistic infections should 
due to a weakened 
immunosuppressants are at increased risk 
be considered by healthcare 
immune system 
of opportunistic infections to which they 
professionals if 
(opportunistic 
would normally be resistant. Some of these 
immunosuppressed patients 
infections) 
infections (e.g. BK virus, which can affect 
have worsening kidney function 
the kidney, and JC virus, which affects the 
or signs of nervous system 
brain and nervous system) may lead to 
problems. 
serious or fatal conditions. 
Use in pregnant or 
There have not been any studies in 
Information and warnings on 
breastfeeding women 
pregnant or breastfeeding women. 
the use of tacrolimus during 
However, it is known that the risk of side 
pregnancy and breastfeeding is 
effects or risk to the pregnancy is not worse 
discussed in the product label 
with tacrolimus compared with other 
and patient information leaflet. 
immunosuppressants. Tacrolimus treatment 
If pregnant women take 
can be considered in pregnant women when 
tacrolimus, the newborn should 
there is no safer alternative, and when it is 
be monitored for side effects 
judged to be necessary. There is a risk of 
(especially effects on the 
Page 5/7 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
premature delivery (delivery of the baby 
kidneys). 
before 37 weeks) as well as hyperkalaemia 
Women should not breastfeed 
(high levels of blood potassium which can 
while receiving tacrolimus. 
cause abnormal heart rhythm), but this 
should become normal when stopping 
treatment. 
Tacrolimus can pass to the baby through 
breast milk. 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Use outside the 
There is a potential risk that Envarsus prolonged-release tablets may be used 
licensed conditions 
outside the licensed indications, for example in uses for which other tacrolimus 
(off-label use) 
medicines are licensed or in other patient groups than those for whom it is 
approved. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Use in children 
In general, children need relatively higher tacrolimus doses than adults to 
achieve similar blood concentrations. Envarsus prolonged-release tablets have 
not been studied in children, and should not be used in children. 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Envarsus can be found on Envarsus’ EPAR page. 
This medicine has special conditions and restrictions for its safe and effective use (additional risk 
minimisation measures). Full details on these conditions and the key elements of any educational 
material can be found in Annex II of the product information which is published on Envarsus’s EPAR 
page; how they are implemented in each country however will depend upon agreement between the 
marketing authorisation holder and the national authorities. 
These additional risk minimisation measures are for the following risks: 
Page 6/7 
 
 
 
 
Medication errors  
Risk minimisation measure: Educational program 
Objective and rationale: to reduce the risk of medication errors by informing healthcare professionals 
and patients of this risk and how to minimise it 
Description: Various educational programs will be initiated across the EU to inform healthcare 
professionals and patients about the risk of medication errors and measures that they should take to 
minimise this risk. These may include the use of patient cards and special information (educational 
materials) to healthcare professionals (doctors and pharmacists).   
Routine ongoing safety monitoring of medication errors by the company responsible for Envarsus will 
also continue and the company will give regular feedback to EU health authorities. Where medication 
errors are detected, special measures will be undertaken as necessary to minimise risks to patients. 
These measures may include additional information and advice as necessary based on experience with 
the product on the market. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
The active substance in Envarsus, tacrolimus, has been used in organ transplantation in many 
countries worldwide for about 20 years. No specific clinical studies are planned for Envarsus after it has 
been approved for use.  
Studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation 
None. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2014. 
Page 7/7 
 
 
 
 
