ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Envarsus 0.75 mg prolonged-release tablets 
Envarsus 1 mg prolonged-release tablets 
Envarsus 4 mg prolonged-release tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Envarsus 0.75 mg prolonged-release tablets 
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 0.75 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
Excipient with known effect 
Each tablet contains 41.7 mg lactose monohydrate. 
Envarsus 1 mg prolonged-release tablets 
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 1 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
Excipient with known effect 
Each tablet contains 41.7 mg lactose monohydrate. 
Envarsus 4 mg prolonged-release tablets 
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 4 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
Excipient with known effect 
Each tablet contains 104 mg lactose monohydrate.  
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Prolonged-release tablet. 
Envarsus 0.75 mg prolonged-release tablets 
Oval, white to off-white uncoated tablet, debossed with “0.75” on one side and “TCS” on the other 
side. 
Envarsus 1 mg prolonged-release tablets 
Oval, white to off-white uncoated tablet, debossed with “1” on one side and “TCS” on the other side. 
Envarsus 4 mg prolonged-release tablets 
Oval, white to off-white uncoated tablet, debossed with “4” on one side and “TCS” on the other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Prophylaxis of transplant rejection in adult kidney or liver allograft recipients. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment of allograft rejection resistant to treatment with other immunosuppressive medicinal 
products in adult patients. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Envarsus is a once-a-day oral formulation of tacrolimus. Tacrolimus therapy requires careful 
monitoring by adequately qualified and equipped personnel. This medicinal product should only be 
prescribed, and changes in immunosuppressive therapy be initiated, by physicians experienced in 
immunosuppressive therapy and the management of transplant patients. 
Inadvertent, unintentional, or unsupervised switching of immediate- or prolonged-release formulations 
of tacrolimus is unsafe. This can lead to graft rejection or increased incidence of adverse reactions, 
including under- or over-immunosuppression, due to clinically relevant differences in systemic 
exposure to tacrolimus. Patients should be maintained on a single formulation of tacrolimus with the 
corresponding daily dosing regimen; alterations in formulation or regimen should only take place 
under the close supervision of a transplant specialist (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). Following conversion 
to any alternative formulation, therapeutic drug monitoring must be performed and dose adjustments 
made to ensure that systemic exposure to tacrolimus is maintained. 
Posology 
The recommended initial doses presented below are intended to act solely as a guideline. Tacrolimus 
is routinely administered in conjunction with other immunosuppressive agents in the initial 
post-operative period. The dose may vary depending upon the immunosuppressive regimen chosen.  
Envarsus dosing should primarily be based on clinical assessments of rejection and tolerability in each 
patient individually aided by blood level monitoring (see below under “Therapeutic drug 
monitoring”). If clinical signs of rejection are apparent, alteration of the immunosuppressive regimen 
should be considered. 
As tacrolimus is a substance with low clearance, adjustments to the dose regimen may take several 
days before steady state is achieved. 
To suppress graft rejection, immunosuppression must be maintained; consequently, no limit to the 
duration of oral therapy can be given. 
Envarsus doses are usually reduced in the post-transplant period. Post-transplant changes in the 
condition of the patient may alter the pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus and may necessitate further dose 
adjustments. 
Missed dose 
A forgotten dose should be taken as soon as possible on the same day. A double dose should not be 
taken on the next day. 
Prophylaxis of kidney transplant rejection 
Envarsus therapy should commence at a dose of 0.17 mg/kg/day administered once daily in the 
morning. Administration should commence within 24 hours after the completion of surgery. 
Prophylaxis of liver transplant rejection 
Envarsus therapy should commence at a dose of 0.11–0.13 mg/kg/day administered once daily in the 
morning. Administration should commence within 24 hours after the completion of surgery.  
Conversion of Prograf- or Advagraf-treated patients to Envarsus - allograft transplant patients 
Envarsus is not interchangeable with other existing tacrolimus containing medicinal products 
(immediate-release or prolonged-release) on an equal dose by dose basis. 
Allograft transplant patients maintained on twice daily Prograf (immediate-release) or Advagraf (once 
daily) dosing requiring conversion to once daily Envarsus should be converted on a 1:0.7 (mg:mg) 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
total daily dose basis and the Envarsus maintenance dose should, therefore, be 30% less than the 
Prograf or Advagraf dose.  
In stable patients converted from tacrolimus immediate-release products (twice daily) to Envarsus 
(once daily) on a 1:0.7 (mg:mg) total daily dose basis, the mean systemic exposure to tacrolimus 
(AUC0-24) was similar to that of immediate-release tacrolimus. The relationship between tacrolimus 
trough levels (C24) and systemic exposure (AUC0-24) for Envarsus is similar to that of 
immediate-release tacrolimus. No studies have been conducted with conversion of patients from 
Advagraf to Envarsus; however, data from healthy volunteers would suggest that the same conversion 
rate is applicable as with the conversion from Prograf to Envarsus. 
When converting from tacrolimus immediate-release products (e.g., Prograf capsules) or from 
Advagraf prolonged-release capsules to Envarsus, trough levels should be measured prior to 
conversion and within two weeks after conversion. Dose adjustments should be made to ensure that 
similar systemic exposure is maintained after the switch. It should be noted that black patients may 
require a higher dose to achieve the targeted trough levels.  
Conversion from ciclosporin to tacrolimus 
Care should be taken when converting patients from ciclosporin-based to tacrolimus-based therapy 
(see sections 4.4 and 4.5). The combined administration of ciclosporin and tacrolimus is not 
recommended. Tacrolimus therapy should be initiated after considering ciclosporin blood 
concentrations and the clinical condition of the patient. Dosing should be delayed in the presence of 
elevated ciclosporin blood levels. In practice, tacrolimus-based therapy has been initiated 12 to 
24 hours after discontinuation of ciclosporin. Monitoring of ciclosporin blood levels should be 
continued following conversion as the clearance of ciclosporin might be affected. 
Treatment of allograft rejection 
Increased doses of tacrolimus, supplemental corticosteroid therapy, and introduction of short courses 
of mono-/polyclonal antibodies have all been used to manage rejection episodes. If signs of toxicity 
such as severe adverse reactions are noted (see section 4.8), the dose of Envarsus may need to be 
reduced. 
Treatment of allograft rejection after kidney or liver transplantation 
For conversion from other immunosuppressants to once daily tacrolimus, treatment should begin with 
the initial oral dose recommended in kidney and liver transplantation respectively for prophylaxis of 
transplant rejection. 
Therapeutic drug monitoring 
Dosing should primarily be based on clinical assessments of rejection and tolerability in each 
individual patient aided by whole blood tacrolimus trough level monitoring. 
As an aid to optimise dosing, several immunoassays are available for determining tacrolimus 
concentrations in whole blood. Comparisons of concentrations from the published literature to 
individual values in clinical practice should be assessed with care and knowledge of the assay methods 
employed. In current clinical practice, whole blood levels are monitored using immunoassay methods. 
The relationship between tacrolimus trough levels and systemic exposure (AUC0-24) is well correlated 
and is similar between the immediate-release formulation and Envarsus. 
Blood trough levels of tacrolimus should be monitored during the post-transplantation period. 
Tacrolimus blood trough levels should be determined approximately 24 hours post-dosing of 
Envarsus, just prior to the next dose. Blood trough levels of tacrolimus should also be closely 
monitored following conversion from tacrolimus products, dose adjustments, changes in the 
immunosuppressive regimen, or co-administration of substances which may alter tacrolimus whole 
blood concentrations (see section 4.5). The frequency of blood level monitoring should be based on 
clinical needs. As tacrolimus is a substance with low clearance, following adjustments to the Envarsus 
dose regimen it may take several days before the targeted steady state is achieved. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Data from clinical studies suggest that the majority of patients can be successfully managed if 
tacrolimus blood trough levels are maintained below 20 ng/mL. It is necessary to consider the clinical 
condition of the patient when interpreting whole blood levels. In clinical practice, whole blood trough 
levels have generally been in the range of 5-20 ng/mL in kidney transplant patients in the early 
post-transplant period, and 5-15 ng/mL during subsequent maintenance therapy. 
Special populations 
Elderly patients (> 65 years) 
There is no evidence currently available to indicate that dose should be adjusted in elderly patients. 
Hepatic impairment 
Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with severe liver impairment in order to maintain the 
tacrolimus blood trough levels within the recommended target range. 
Renal impairment 
As the pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus are unaffected by renal function (see section 5.2), no dose 
adjustment is required. However, owing to the nephrotoxic potential of tacrolimus, careful monitoring 
of renal function is recommended (including serial serum creatinine concentrations, calculation of 
creatinine clearance, and monitoring of urine output). 
Race 
In comparison to Caucasians, black patients may require higher tacrolimus doses to achieve similar 
trough levels. In clinical studies patients converted from twice daily Prograf were converted to 
Envarsus at 1:0.85 (mg:mg). 
Gender 
There is no evidence that male and female patients require different doses to achieve similar trough 
levels. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Envarsus in children below 18 years of age have not yet been established.  
No data are available. 
Method of administration 
Envarsus is a once-a-day oral formulation of tacrolimus. It is recommended that the oral daily dose of 
Envarsus is administered once daily in the morning.  
The tablets should be swallowed whole with fluid (preferably water) immediately following removal 
from the blister. Envarsus should generally be taken on an empty stomach to achieve maximal 
absorption (see section 5.2).  
Patients should be advised not to swallow the desiccant. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Hypersensitivity to other macrolides. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Medication errors, including inadvertent, unintentional or unsupervised substitution of immediate- or 
prolonged-release tacrolimus formulations, have been observed with tacrolimus. This has led to 
serious adverse reactions, including graft rejection, or other adverse reactions which could be a 
consequence of either under- or over-exposure to tacrolimus. Patients should be maintained on a single 
formulation of tacrolimus with the corresponding daily dosing regimen; alterations in formulation or 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
regimen should only take place under the close supervision of a transplant specialist (see sections 4.2 
and 4.8). 
For treatment of allograft rejection resistant to treatment with other immunosuppressive medicinal 
products in adult patients clinical studies are not yet available for the prolonged-release formulation 
Envarsus.  
For prophylaxis of transplant rejection in adult heart, lung, pancreas, or intestine allograft recipients 
clinical data are not yet available for Envarsus. 
During the initial post-transplant period, monitoring of the following parameters should be undertaken 
on a routine basis: blood pressure, ECG, neurological and visual status, fasting blood glucose levels, 
electrolytes (particularly potassium), liver and renal function tests, haematology parameters, 
coagulation values, and plasma protein determinations. If clinically relevant changes are seen, 
adjustments of the immunosuppressive regimen should be considered. 
Substances with potential for interaction 
Inhibitors or inducers of CYP3A4 should only be co-administered with tacrolimus after consulting a 
transplant specialist, due to the potential for drug interactions resulting in serious adverse reactions 
including rejection or toxicity (see section 4.5).  
CYP3A4 inhibitors 
Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase tacrolimus blood levels, which could lead to 
serious adverse reactions, including nephrotoxicity, neurotoxicity and QT prolongation. It is 
recommended that concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (such as ritonavir, cobicistat, 
ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, telithromycin, clarithromycin or josamycin) 
with tacrolimus should be avoided. If unavoidable, tacrolimus blood levels should be monitored 
frequently, starting within the first few days of coadministration, under the supervision of a transplant 
specialist, to adjust the tacrolimus dose if appropriate in order to maintain similar tacrolimus exposure. 
Renal function, ECG including the QT interval, and the clinical condition of the patient should also be 
closely monitored. 
Dose adjustment needs to be based upon the individual situation of each patient. An immediate dose 
reduction at the time of treatment initiation may be required (see section 4.5). 
Similarly, discontinuation of CYP3A4 inhibitors may affect the rate of metabolism of tacrolimus, 
thereby leading to subtherapeutic blood levels of tacrolimus, and therefore requires close monitoring 
and supervision of a transplant specialist. 
CYP3A4 inducers 
Concomitant use with CYP3A4 inducers may decrease tacrolimus blood levels, potentially increasing 
the risk of transplant rejection. It is recommended that concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 inducers 
(such as rifampicin, phenytoin, carbamazepine) with tacrolimus should be avoided. If unavoidable, 
tacrolimus blood levels should be monitored frequently, starting within the first few days of 
coadministration, under the supervision of a transplant specialist, to adjust the tacrolimus dose if 
appropriate, in order to maintain similar tacrolimus exposure. Graft function should also be closely 
monitored (see section 4.5). 
Similarly, discontinuation of CYP3A4 inducers may affect the rate of metabolism of tacrolimus, 
thereby leading to supratherapeutic blood levels of tacrolimus, and therefore requires close monitoring 
and supervision of a transplant specialist. 
P-glycoprotein 
Caution should be observed when co-administering tacrolimus with drugs that inhibit P-glycoprotein, 
as an increase in tacrolimus levels may occur. Tacrolimus whole blood levels and the clinical 
condition of the patient should be monitored closely. An adjustment of the tacrolimus dose may be 
required (see section 4.5). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Herbal preparations 
Herbal preparations containing St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum) should be avoided when 
taking tacrolimus due to the risk of interactions that lead to a decrease in both blood concentrations 
and the therapeutic effect of tacrolimus (see section 4.5). 
Other interactions 
The combined administration of ciclosporin and tacrolimus should be avoided and care should be 
taken when administering tacrolimus to patients who have previously received ciclosporin (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.5). 
High potassium intake or potassium-sparing diuretics should be avoided (see section 4.5). 
Certain combinations of tacrolimus with substances known to have neurotoxic effects may increase 
the risk of these effects (see section 4.5). 
Vaccination 
Immunosuppressants may affect the response to vaccination and vaccination during treatment with 
tacrolimus may be less effective. The use of live attenuated vaccines should be avoided. 
Nephrotoxicity 
Tacrolimus can result in renal function impairment in post-transplant patients. Acute renal impairment 
without active intervention may progress to chronic renal impairment. Patients with impaired renal 
function should be monitored closely as the dosage of tacrolimus may need to be reduced. The risk for 
nephrotoxicity may increase when tacrolimus is concomitantly administered with drugs associated 
with nephrotoxicity (see section 4.5). Concurrent use of tacrolimus with drugs known to have 
nephrotoxic effects should be avoided. When co-administration cannot be avoided, tacrolimus trough 
blood level and renal function should be monitored closely and dosage reduction should be considered 
if nephrotoxicity occurs. 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal perforation has been reported in patients treated with tacrolimus. As gastrointestinal 
perforation is a medically important event that may lead to a life-threatening or serious condition, 
adequate treatments should be considered immediately after suspected symptoms or signs occur. 
Since levels of tacrolimus in blood may significantly change during diarrhoea episodes, extra 
monitoring of tacrolimus concentrations is recommended during episodes of diarrhoea.  
Eye disorders 
Eye disorders, sometimes progressing to loss of vision, have been reported in patients treated with 
tacrolimus. Some cases have reported resolution on switching to alternative immunosuppression. 
Patients should be advised to report changes in visual acuity, changes in colour vision, blurred vision, 
or visual field defect, and in such cases, prompt evaluation is recommended with referral to an 
ophthalmologist as appropriate. 
Thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) (including thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) and 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS)) 
The diagnosis of TMA, including thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) and haemolytic 
uraemic syndrome (HUS), sometimes leading to renal failure or a fatal outcome, should be considered 
in patients presenting with haemolytic anaemia, thrombocytopenia, fatigue, fluctuating neurological 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
manifestation, renal impairment, and fever. If TMA is diagnosed, prompt treatment is required, and 
discontinuation of tacrolimus should be considered at the discretion of the treating physician. 
The concomitant administration of tacrolimus with a mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) 
inhibitor (e.g., sirolimus, everolimus) may increase the risk of thrombotic microangiopathy (including 
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and haemolytic uraemic syndrome). 
Cardiac disorders 
Ventricular hypertrophy or hypertrophy of the septum, reported as cardiomyopathies, have been 
observed in tacrolimus treated patients on rare occasions. Most cases have been reversible, occurring 
with tacrolimus blood trough concentrations much higher than the recommended maximum levels. 
Other factors observed to increase the risk of these clinical conditions included pre-existing heart 
disease, corticosteroid usage, hypertension, renal or hepatic dysfunction, infections, fluid overload and 
oedema. Accordingly, high-risk patients receiving substantial immunosuppression should be 
monitored, using such procedures as echocardiography or ECG pre- and post-transplant (e.g., initially 
at 3 months and then at 9-12 months). If abnormalities develop, dose reduction of tacrolimus or 
change of treatment to another immunosuppressive agent should be considered. Tacrolimus may 
prolong the QT interval but at this time lacks substantial evidence for causing Torsades de pointes. 
Caution should be exercised in patients with diagnosed or suspected Congenital Long QT Syndrome. 
Lymphoproliferative disorders and malignancies 
Patients treated with tacrolimus have been reported to develop Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV)-associated 
lymphoproliferative disorders (see section 4.8). A combination of immunosuppressives, such as 
antilymphocytic antibodies (e.g., basiliximab, daclizumab), given concomitantly increases the risk of 
EBV-associated lymphoproliferative disorders. EBV-Viral Capsid Antigen (VCA)-negative patients 
have been reported to have an increased risk of developing lymphoproliferative disorders. Therefore, 
in this patient group, EBV-VCA serology should be ascertained before starting treatment with 
Envarsus. During treatment, careful monitoring with EBV-PCR (Polymerase-Chain-Reaction) is 
recommended. Positive EBV-PCR may persist for months and is per se not indicative of 
lymphoproliferative disease or lymphoma. 
As with other potent immunosuppressive compounds, the risk of secondary cancer is unknown (see 
section 4.8). 
As with other immunosuppressive agents, owing to the potential risk of malignant skin changes, 
exposure to sunlight and UV light should be limited by wearing protective clothing and using a 
sunscreen with a high protection factor. 
Infection including opportunistic infections 
Patients treated with immunosuppressants, including Envarsus, are at increased risk for infections 
including opportunistic infections (bacterial, fungal, viral and protozoal) such as CMV infection, BK 
virus associated nephropathy and JC virus associated progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
(PML). Patients are also at an increased risk of infections with viral hepatitis (e.g., hepatitis B and C 
reactivation and de novo infection, as well as hepatitis E, which may  become chronic). These 
infections are often related to a high total immunosuppressive burden and may lead to serious or fatal 
conditions including graft rejection that physicians should consider in the differential diagnosis in 
immunosuppressed patients with deteriorating hepatic or renal function or neurological symptoms. 
Prevention and management should be in accordance with appropriate clinical guidance. 
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) 
Patients treated with tacrolimus have been reported to develop posterior reversible encephalopathy 
syndrome (PRES). If patients taking tacrolimus present with symptoms indicating PRES such as 
headache, altered mental status, seizures and visual disturbances, a radiological procedure (e.g., MRI) 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
should be performed. If PRES is diagnosed, adequate blood pressure and seizure control and 
immediate discontinuation of systemic tacrolimus is advised. Most patients completely recover after 
appropriate measures are taken. 
Pure red cell aplasia 
Cases of pure red cell aplasia (PRCA) have been reported in patients treated with tacrolimus. All 
patients reported risk factors for PRCA such as parvovirus B19 infection, underlying disease or 
concomitant medicinal product associated with PRCA. 
Special populations 
There is limited experience in non-Caucasian patients and patients at elevated immunological risk 
(e.g., retransplantation, evidence of panel reactive antibodies, PRA). 
Dose reduction may be necessary in patients with severe liver impairment (see section 4.2). 
Excipients 
Envarsus contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase 
deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Metabolic interactions 
Systemically available tacrolimus is metabolised by hepatic CYP3A4. There is also evidence of 
gastrointestinal metabolism by CYP3A4 in the intestinal wall. Concomitant use of medicinal products 
or herbal preparations known to inhibit or induce CYP3A4 may affect the metabolism of tacrolimus 
and thereby increase or decrease tacrolimus blood levels. Similarly, discontinuation of such products 
or herbal preparations may affect the rate of metabolism of tacrolimus and thereby the blood levels of 
tacrolimus. 
Pharmacokinetics studies have indicated that the increase in tacrolimus blood levels when co-
administered with inhibitors of CYP3A4 is mainly a result of increase in oral bioavailability of 
tacrolimus owing to the inhibition of gastrointestinal metabolism. Effect on hepatic clearance is less 
pronounced. 
It is recommended strongly to closely monitor tacrolimus blood levels under supervision of a 
transplant specialist, as well as monitor for graft function, QT prolongation (with ECG), renal function 
and other undesirable effects including neurotoxicity, whenever substances which have the potential to 
alter CYP3A4 metabolism are used concomitantly, and to adjust or interrupt the tacrolimus dose if 
appropriate in order to maintain similar tacrolimus exposure (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). Similarly, 
patients should be closely monitored when using tacrolimus concomitantly with multiple substances 
that affect CYP3A4 as the effects on tacrolimus exposure may be enhanced or counteracted.  
Medicinal products which have effects on tacrolimus are listed in the table below. The examples of 
drug-drug interactions are not intended to be inclusive or comprehensive and therefore the label of 
each drug that is co-administered with tacrolimus should be consulted for information related to the 
route of metabolism, interaction pathways, potential risks, and specific actions to be taken with 
regards to co-administration. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal products which have effects on tacrolimus 
Drug/Substance Class or 
Name 
Drug interaction effect 
Grapefruit or grapefruit juice  May increase tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations and 
increase the risk of serious adverse 
reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT 
prolongation) [see section 4.4]. 
Ciclosporin 
Products known to have 
nephrotoxic or neurotoxic 
effects: 
aminoglycosides, gyrase 
inhibitors, vancomycin, 
sulfamethoxazole + 
trimethoprim, NSAIDs, 
ganciclovir, acyclovir, 
amphotericin B, ibuprofen, 
cidofovir, foscarnet 
Strong CYP3A4 inhibitors: 
antifungal agents (e.g., 
ketoconazole, itraconazole, 
posaconazole, voriconazole), 
the macrolide antibiotics (e.g., 
telithromycin, 
troleandomycin, 
clarithromycin, josamycin), 
HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., 
ritonavir, nelfinavir, 
saquinavir), HCV protease 
inhibitors (e.g., telaprevir, 
boceprevir, and the 
combination of ombitasvir 
and paritaprevir with 
ritonavir, when used with and 
without dasabuvir), 
nefazodone, the 
pharmacokinetic enhancer 
cobicistat, and the kinase 
inhibitors idelalisib, ceritinib 
Strong interactions have also 
been observed with the 
macrolide antibiotic 
erythromycin 
May increase tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations. In 
addition, synergistic/additive 
nephrotoxic effects can occur. 
May enhance nephrotoxic or 
neurotoxic effects of tacrolimus. 
May increase tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations and 
increase the risk of serious adverse 
reactions (e.g., nephrotoxicity, 
neurotoxicity, QT prolongation) 
which requires close monitoring 
[see section 4.4]. 
Rapid and sharp increases in 
tacrolimus levels may occur, as 
early as within 1-3 days after co-
administration, despite immediate 
reduction of tacrolimus dose. 
Overall tacrolimus exposure may 
increase >5 fold. When ritonavir 
combinations are co-administered, 
tacrolimus exposure may increase 
>50 fold. Nearly all patients may 
require a reduction in tacrolimus 
dose and temporary interruption of 
tacrolimus may also be necessary. 
The effect on tacrolimus blood 
concentrations may remain for 
several days after co-administration 
is completed. 
10 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
Avoid grapefruit or grapefruit 
juice. 
The simultaneous use of 
ciclosporin and tacrolimus 
should be avoided [see section 
4.4]. 
Concurrent use of tacrolimus 
with drugs known to have 
nephrotoxic or neurotoxic 
effects should be avoided. 
When co-administration 
cannot be avoided, monitor 
renal function and other side 
effects and adjust tacrolimus 
dose if needed. 
It is recommended that 
concomitant use should be 
avoided. If co-administration 
of a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor 
is unavoidable, consider 
omitting the dose of tacrolimus 
the day the strong CYP3A4 
inhibitor is initiated. Reinitiate 
tacrolimus the next day at a 
reduced dose based on 
tacrolimus blood 
concentrations. Changes in 
both tacrolimus dose and/or 
dosing frequency should be 
individualized and adjusted as 
needed based on tacrolimus 
trough concentrations, which 
should be assessed at initiation, 
monitored frequently 
throughout (starting within the 
first few days) and re-
evaluated on and after 
completion of the CYP3A4 
inhibitor. Upon completion, 
appropriate dose and dosing 
frequency of tacrolimus should 
be guided by tacrolimus blood 
concentrations. Monitor renal 
function, ECG for QT 
 
Drug/Substance Class or 
Name 
Drug interaction effect 
May increase tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations and 
increase the risk of serious adverse 
reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT 
prolongation) [see section 4.4]. A 
rapid increase in tacrolimus level 
may occur. 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
prolongation, and other side 
effects closely.  
Monitor tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations 
frequently, starting within the 
first few days of co-
administration. Reduce 
tacrolimus dose if needed [see 
section 4.2]. Monitor renal 
function, ECG for QT 
prolongation, and other side 
effects closely. 
Moderate or weak CYP3A4 
inhibitors: 
antifungal agents (e.g., 
fluconazole, isavuconazole, 
clotrimazole, miconazole), the 
macrolide antibiotics (e.g., 
azithromycin), calcium 
channel blockers (e.g., 
nifedipine, nicardipine, 
diltiazem, verapamil), 
amiodarone, danazol, 
ethinylestradiol, lansoprazole, 
omeprazole, the HCV 
antivirals elbasvir/grazoprevir 
and glecaprevir/pibrentasvir, 
the CMV antiviral letermovir, 
and the tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors nilotinib, crizotinib 
and imatinib and (Chinese) 
herbal preparations containing 
extracts of Schisandra 
sphenanthera 
In vitro the following 
substances have been shown 
to be potential inhibitors of 
tacrolimus metabolism: 
bromocriptine, cortisone, 
dapsone, ergotamine, 
gestodene, lidocaine, 
mephenytoin, midazolam, 
nilvadipine, norethisterone, 
quinidine, tamoxifen 
Strong CYP3A4 inducers: 
rifampicin, phenytoin, 
carbamazepine, apalutamide, 
enzalutamide, mitotane, or St. 
John’s wort (Hypericum 
perforatum) 
May increase tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations and 
increase the risk of serious adverse 
reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT 
prolongation) [see section 4.4]. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations 
and reduce tacrolimus dose if 
needed [see section 4.2]. 
Monitor renal function, ECG 
for QT prolongation, and other 
side effects closely. 
May decrease tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations and 
increase the risk of rejection [see 
section 4.4]. 
Maximal effect on tacrolimus blood 
concentrations may be achieved 1-2 
weeks after coadministration. The 
effect may remain 1-2 weeks after 
completion of the treatment. 
It is recommended that 
concomitant use should be 
avoided. If unavoidable, 
patients may require an 
increase in tacrolimus dose. 
Changes in tacrolimus dose 
should be individualized and 
adjusted as needed based on 
tacrolimus trough 
concentrations, which should 
be assessed at initiation, 
monitored frequently 
throughout (starting within the 
first few days) and re-
evaluated on and after 
completion of the CYP3A4 
inducer. After use of the 
11 
 
 
 
Drug/Substance Class or 
Name 
Drug interaction effect 
Moderate CYP3A4 inducers: 
metamizole, phenobarbital, 
isoniazid, rifabutin, efavirenz, 
etravirine, nevirapine 
May decrease tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations and 
increase the risk of rejection [see 
section 4.4]. 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
CYP3A4 inducer has ended, 
tacrolimus dose may need to 
be adjusted gradually. Monitor 
graft function closely. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations 
and increase tacrolimus dose if 
needed [see section 4.2]. 
Monitor graft function closely.  
Weak CYP3A4 inducers: 
flucloxacillin 
Caspofungin 
May decrease tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations and 
increase the risk of rejection. 
Mechanism of interaction has not 
been confirmed. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations 
and increase tacrolimus dose if 
needed [see section 4.2]. 
Monitor graft function closely. 
Products known to have high 
affinity for plasma proteins, 
e.g.: NSAIDs, oral 
anticoagulants, oral 
antidiabetics 
Prokinetic agents: 
metoclopramide, cisapride, 
cimetidine, and magnesium-
aluminium-hydroxide 
Tacrolimus is extensively bound to 
plasma proteins. Possible 
interactions with other active 
substances known to have high 
affinity for plasma proteins should 
be considered. 
May increase tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations and 
increase the risk of serious adverse 
reactions (e.g., neurotoxicity, QT 
prolongation). 
Maintenance doses of 
corticosteroids 
May decrease tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations and 
increase the risk of rejection [see 
section 4.4]. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations 
and adjust tacrolimus dose if 
needed [see section 4.2]. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations 
and reduce tacrolimus dose if 
needed [see section 4.2]. 
Monitor closely for renal 
function, for QT prolongation 
with ECG, and for other side 
effects. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations 
and increase tacrolimus dose if 
needed [see section 4.2]. 
Monitor graft function closely. 
High dose prednisolone or 
methylprednisolone 
May have impact on tacrolimus 
blood levels (increase or decrease) 
when administered for the treatment 
of acute rejection. 
Monitor tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations 
and adjust tacrolimus dose if 
needed.  
Direct-acting antiviral (DAA) 
therapy 
Monitor tacrolimus whole 
blood trough concentrations 
and adjust tacrolimus dose if 
needed to ensure continued 
efficacy and safety. 
May have impact on the 
pharmacokinetics of tacrolimus by 
changes in liver function during 
DAA therapy, related to clearance 
of hepatitis virus. A decrease in 
tacrolimus blood levels may occur.  
However, the CYP3A4 inhibiting 
potential of some DAAs may 
counteract that effect or lead to 
increased tacrolimus blood levels. 
12 
 
 
Drug/Substance Class or 
Name 
Cannabidiol (P-gp inhibitor) 
Drug interaction effect 
Recommendations 
concerning co-administration 
There have been reports of 
increased tacrolimus blood levels 
during concomitant use of 
tacrolimus with cannabidiol. This 
may be due to inhibition of 
intestinal P-glycoprotein, leading to 
increased bioavailability of 
tacrolimus. 
Tacrolimus and cannabidiol 
should be co-administered with 
caution, closely monitoring for 
side effects. Monitor 
tacrolimus whole blood trough 
concentrations and adjust the 
tacrolimus dose if needed [see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4]. 
Concomitant administration of tacrolimus with a mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor 
(e.g., sirolimus, everolimus) may increase the risk of thrombotic microangiopathy (including 
thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura and haemolytic uraemic syndrome) (see section 4.4).  
As tacrolimus treatment may be associated with hyperkalaemia, or may increase pre-existing 
hyperkalaemia, high potassium intake, or potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g., amiloride, triamterene, or 
spironolactone) should be avoided (see section 4.4). Care should be taken when tacrolimus is 
coadministered with other agents that increase serum potassium, such as trimethoprim and 
cotrimoxazole (trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole), as trimethoprim is known to act as a potassium-
sparing diuretic like amiloride. Close monitoring of serum potassium is recommended. 
Effect of tacrolimus on the metabolism of other medicinal products 
Tacrolimus is a known CYP3A4 inhibitor; thus, concomitant use of tacrolimus with medicinal 
products known to be metabolised by CYP3A4 may affect the metabolism of such medicinal products. 
The half-life of ciclosporin is prolonged when tacrolimus is given concomitantly. In addition, 
synergistic/additive nephrotoxic effects can occur. For these reasons, the combined administration of 
ciclosporin and tacrolimus is not recommended, and care should be taken when administering 
tacrolimus to patients who have previously received ciclosporin (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Tacrolimus has been shown to increase the blood level of phenytoin. 
As tacrolimus may reduce the clearance of steroid-based contraceptives leading to increased hormone 
exposure, particular care should be exercised when deciding upon contraceptive measures. 
Limited knowledge of interactions between tacrolimus and statins is available. Clinical data suggest 
that the pharmacokinetics of statins are largely unaltered by the co-administration of tacrolimus. 
Animal data have shown that tacrolimus could potentially decrease the clearance and increase the 
half-life of pentobarbital and antipyrine.  
Mycophenolic acid 
Caution should be exercised when switching combination therapy from ciclosporin, which interferes 
with enterohepatic recirculation of mycophenolic acid, to tacrolimus, which is devoid of this effect, as 
this might result in changes of mycophenolic acid exposure. Drugs which interfere with mycophenolic 
acid's enterohepatic cycle have potential to reduce the plasma level and efficacy of mycophenolic acid. 
Therapeutic drug monitoring of mycophenolic acid may be appropriate when switching from 
ciclosporin to tacrolimus or vice versa. 
Other interactions leading to clinically detrimental effects 
Immunosuppressants may affect the response to vaccination, and vaccination during treatment with 
tacrolimus may be less effective. The use of live attenuated vaccines should be avoided (see 
section 4.4). 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Human data show that tacrolimus crosses the placenta. Limited data from organ transplant recipients 
show no evidence of an increased risk of adverse events on the course and outcome of pregnancy 
under tacrolimus treatment compared with other immunosuppressive medicinal products. However, 
cases of spontaneous abortion have been reported. To date, no other relevant epidemiological data are 
available. Tacrolimus treatment can be considered in pregnant women when there is no safer 
alternative, and when the perceived benefit justifies the potential risk to the foetus. 
In case of in utero exposure, monitoring of the newborn for potential adverse events of tacrolimus is 
recommended (in particular, effects on the kidneys). There is a risk for premature delivery (<37 week) 
(incidence of 66 of 123 births, i.e. 53.7%; however, data showed that the majority of the newborns had 
normal birth weight for their gestational age) as well as for hyperkalaemia in the newborn (incidence 8 
of 111 neonates, i.e. 7.2%) which, however normalises spontaneously. In rats and rabbits, tacrolimus 
caused embryofoetal toxicity at doses which demonstrated maternal toxicity (see section 5.3). 
Breast-feeding 
Human data demonstrate that tacrolimus is excreted in breast milk. As detrimental effects on the 
newborn cannot be excluded, women should not breast-feed whilst receiving Envarsus. 
Fertility 
A negative effect of tacrolimus on male fertility in the form of reduced sperm count and motility was 
observed in rats (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Envarsus may have a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Tacrolimus may cause 
visual and neurological disturbances. This effect may be enhanced if Envarsus is administered in 
association with alcohol. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions for tacrolimus (occurring in >10% of patients) are 
tremor, renal impairment, hyperglycaemic conditions, diabetes mellitus, hyperkalaemia, infections, 
hypertension and insomnia. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The frequency of adverse reactions is defined as follows: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to 
<1/10); uncommon (≥1/1 000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10 000 to <1/1 000); very rare (<1/10 000); not 
known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable 
effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Infections and infestations 
Patients receiving tacrolimus are frequently at increased risk for infections (viral, bacterial, fungal, 
protozoal). The course of pre-existing infections may be aggravated. Both generalised and localised 
infections can occur. 
Cases of CMV infection, BK virus associated nephropathy, as well as cases of JC virus associated 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), have been reported in patients treated with 
immunosuppressants, including tacrolimus. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (incl. cysts and polyps) 
Patients receiving immunosuppressive therapy are at increased risk of developing malignancies. 
Benign as well as malignant neoplasms including EBV-associated lymphoproliferative disorders and 
skin malignancies have been reported in association with tacrolimus treatment. 
Immune system disorders 
Allergic and anaphylactoid reactions have been observed in patients receiving tacrolimus (see 
section 4.4). 
System Organ 
Class 
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders 
Very 
common 
Endocrine 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
diabetes 
mellitus, 
hyper-
glycaemic 
conditions, 
hyper-
kalaemia 
Psychiatric 
disorders 
insomnia 
Frequency of adverse reactions 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Not known 
pure red cell 
aplasia, 
agranulo-
cytosis, 
haemolytic 
anaemia, 
febrile 
neutropenia 
coagulo-pathies, 
pancytopenia, 
neutropenia, 
coagulation and 
bleeding 
analyses, 
abnormal, 
thrombotic 
microangio-
pathy 
thrombotic 
thrombo-
cytopenic 
purpura, 
hypopro-
thrombin-
aemia 
hirsutism 
dehydration, 
hypo-glycaemia, 
hypoprotein-
aemia, 
hyperphos-
phataemia 
psychotic 
disorder 
anaemia, 
thrombocyto-penia, 
leukopenia, red 
blood cell analyses 
abnormal, 
leukocytosis 
anorexia, metabolic 
acidoses, other 
electrolyte ab-
normalities, 
hyponatraemia, 
fluid overload, 
hyperuricaemia, 
hypomagnes-
aemia, hypo-
kalaemia, 
hypocalcemia, 
appetite decreased, 
hypercholest-
erolaemia, 
hyperlipidaemia, 
hypertriglycerid-
aemia, hypophos-
phateaemia 
confusion and dis-
orientation, 
depression, anxiety 
symptoms, 
hallucination, 
mental disorders, 
depressed mood, 
mood disorders and 
disturbances, 
nightmare 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ 
Class 
Very 
common 
Nervous system 
disorders 
headache, 
tremor 
Eye disorders 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders  hypertension 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Frequency of adverse reactions 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Not known 
nervous system 
disorders, seizures, 
disturbances in 
consciousness, 
peripheral 
neuropathies, 
dizziness, 
paraesthesias and 
dysaesthesias, 
writing impaired 
eye disorders, 
vision blurred, 
photophobia 
tinnitus 
ischaemic coronary 
artery disorders, 
tachycardia 
thromboembolic 
and ischaemic 
events, vascular 
hypotensive 
disorders, 
haemorrhage, 
peripheral vascular 
disorders 
parenchymal lung 
disorders, 
dyspnoea, pleural 
effusion, cough, 
pharyngitis, nasal 
congestion and 
inflammations 
hypertonia 
myasthenia 
Posterior 
reversible 
encephalo-
pathy 
syndrome 
(PRES) 
blindness 
optic 
neuropathy 
deafness 
neurosensory 
pericardial 
effusion 
hearing 
impaired 
Torsades de 
pointes 
encephalo-
pathy, central 
nervous system 
haemorrhages 
and cerebrovas-
cular accidents, 
coma, speech 
and language 
ab-normalities, 
paralysis and 
paresis, amnesia 
cataract 
hypoacusis 
heart failures, 
ventricular 
arrhythmias and 
cardiac arrest, 
supraventricular 
arrhythmias, 
cardiomyo-
pathies, 
ventricular 
hypertrophy, 
palpitations 
venous 
thrombosis deep 
limb, shock, 
infarction 
respiratory 
failures, 
respiratory tract 
disorders, 
asthma 
acute 
respiratory 
distress 
syndrome 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ 
Class 
Very 
common 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
diarrhoea, 
nausea 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
renal 
impairment 
Frequency of adverse reactions 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Not known 
pancreatic 
pseudocyst, 
subileus 
acute and 
chronic 
pancreatitis, 
peritonitis, ileus 
paralytic, 
gastrooeso-
phageal reflux 
disease, 
impaired gastric 
emptying 
hepatic 
failure 
veno-
occlusive liver 
disease, 
hepatic artery 
thrombosis 
Stevens-
Johnson 
syndrome 
toxic 
epidermal 
necrolysis 
(Lyell’s 
syndrome) 
dermatitis, 
photo-sensitivity 
joint disorders  mobility 
decreased 
haemolytic 
uraemic 
syndrome, 
anuria 
nephropathy, 
cystitis 
haem-
orrhagic 
gastrointestinal 
signs and 
symptoms, 
vomiting, gastro-
intestinal and 
abdominal pains, 
gastrointestinal 
inflammatory 
conditions, gastro-
intestinal haem-
orrhages, 
gastrointestinal 
ulceration and 
perforation, ascites, 
stomatitis and 
ulceration, 
constipation, 
dyspeptic signs and 
symptoms, 
flatulence, bloating 
and distension, 
loose stools 
bile duct disorders, 
hepatocellular 
damage and 
hepatitis, 
cholestasis and 
jaundice 
rash, pruritus, 
alopecias, acne, 
sweating increased 
arthralgia, back 
pain, muscle 
cramps, pain in 
limb 
renal failure, renal 
failure acute, 
nephropathy toxic, 
renal tubular 
necrosis, urinary 
abnormalities, 
oliguria, bladder 
and urethral 
symptoms 
Reproductive 
system and breast 
disorders 
dysmenorrhoea 
and uterine 
bleeding 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Frequency of adverse reactions 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very rare 
Not known 
System Organ 
Class 
General disorders 
and administration 
site conditions 
Very 
common 
Investigations 
liver function 
tests 
abnormal 
blood alkaline 
phosphatase 
increased, weight 
increased 
febrile disorders, 
pain and 
discomfort, 
asthenic conditions, 
oedema, body 
temperature 
perception 
disturbed 
fat tissue 
increased 
fall, ulcer, 
chest 
tightness, 
thirst 
echo-
cardiogram 
abnormal,  
influenza like 
illness, feeling 
jittery, feeling 
abnormal, multi-
organ failure, 
chest pressure 
sensation, 
temperature 
intolerance 
amylase 
increased, ECG 
abnormal, heart 
rate and pulse 
investigations 
abnormal, 
weight 
decreased, blood 
lactate 
dehydrogenase 
increased 
Injury, poisoning 
and procedural 
complications 
primary graft 
dysfunction 
Medication errors, including inadvertent, unintentional or unsupervised substitution of immediate- or 
prolonged-release tacrolimus formulations, have been observed. A number of associated cases of 
transplant rejection have been reported.  
In clinical studies in kidney transplant patients receiving Envarsus, the most frequent adverse reactions 
(at least in 2% of patients) were tremor, diabetes mellitus, blood creatinine increased, urinary tract 
infection, hypertension, BK virus infection, renal impairment, diarrhoea, toxicity to various agents, 
and toxic nephropathy all of which are known to occur in the respective patient population under 
immunosuppressive treatment. In all, there appears to be no significant difference in the pattern of 
adverse events suspected to be causally related to study drug between once daily Envarsus and 
tacrolimus immediate-release capsules (Prograf). 
Among the most frequent adverse reactions (at least in 2% of patients) in clinical studies in liver 
transplant patients receiving Envarsus were tremor, headache, fatigue, hyperkalaemia, hypertension, 
renal failure, blood creatinine increased, dizziness, hepatitis C, muscle spasms, tinea infection, 
leukopenia, sinusitis, and upper respiratory tract infections (URTI), all of which are known to occur in 
the respective patient population under immunosuppressive treatment. As in kidney transplant 
recipients, there appears to be no meaningful difference in the pattern of suspected adverse drug 
reactions between once daily Envarsus and tacrolimus immediate-release capsules (Prograf). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9  Overdose 
Experience with overdose is limited. Several cases of accidental overdose have been reported with 
tacrolimus. Symptoms have included tremor, headache, nausea and vomiting, infections, urticaria, 
lethargy and increases in blood urea nitrogen, serum creatinine and alanine aminotransferase levels. 
No specific antidote to tacrolimus therapy is available. If overdose occurs, general supportive 
measures and symptomatic treatment should be conducted. 
Based on its high molecular weight, poor aqueous solubility, and extensive erythrocyte and plasma 
protein binding, it is anticipated that tacrolimus will not be dialysable. In isolated patients with very 
high plasma levels, haemofiltration or -diafiltration have been effective in reducing toxic 
concentrations. In cases of oral intoxication, gastric lavage and/or the use of adsorbents (such as 
activated charcoal) may be helpful if used shortly after intake. 
It should be noted however, that there has been no direct experience with Envarsus in overdose. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, calcineurin inhibitors, ATC code: L04AD02 
Mechanism of action 
At the molecular level, the effects of tacrolimus appear to be mediated by binding to a cytosolic 
protein (FKBP12) which is responsible for the intracellular accumulation of the compound. The 
FKBP12-tacrolimus complex specifically and competitively binds to and inhibits calcineurin, leading 
to a calcium-dependent inhibition of T-cell signal transduction pathways, thereby preventing 
transcription of a discrete set of cytokine genes. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Tacrolimus is a highly potent immunosuppressive agent and has proven activity in both in vitro and in 
vivo experiments. 
In particular, tacrolimus inhibits the formation of cytotoxic lymphocytes, which are mainly responsible 
for graft rejection. Tacrolimus suppresses T-cell activation and T-helper-cell dependent B-cell 
proliferation, as well as the formation of lymphokines (such as interleukins-2, -3, and γ-interferon) and 
the expression of the interleukin-2 receptor. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Results from clinical studies performed with once-daily tacrolimus 
Kidney transplantation 
The efficacy and safety of Envarsus and Prograf, both in combination with mycophenolate mofetil 
(MMF), corticosteroids and IL-2 receptor antagonist as per the standard of care were compared in a 
randomised, double-blind, double-dummy study, in 543 de novo kidney transplant recipients.  
The percentage of patients with one or greater than one episode of clinically-suspected and treated 
rejections during the 360-day study was 13.8% for the Envarsus group (N=268) and 15.6% for the 
Prograf group (N=275). The event rate for centrally read, biopsy-confirmed acute rejection (BPAR) 
during the 360-day study was 13.1% in the Envarsus group (N=268) and 13.5% in the Prograf group 
(N=275). The efficacy failure rate as measured by the composite endpoint of death, graft loss, 
centrally read BPAR and loss to follow-up was 18.3% in the Envarsus group and 19.6% in the Prograf 
group. The treatment difference (Envarsus-Prograf) was -1.35% (95% confidence interval [-7.94%, 
5.27%]). Treatment-emergent fatal adverse events occurred in 1.8% of Envarsus patients and 2.5% of 
Prograf patients. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The efficacy and safety of Envarsus and Prograf, both in combination with mycophenolate mofetil 
(MMF) or mycophenolate sodium (MPS) and corticosteroids, were compared in 324 stable kidney 
transplant recipients. The event rate for locally read BPAR during the 360-day study was 1.2% in the 
Envarsus group (N=162) post conversion from Prograf at a dose ratio of 1:0.7 (mg:mg) and 1.2% in 
the group maintained on Prograf (N=162). The efficacy failure rate as measured by the composite 
endpoint of death, graft loss, locally read BPAR and loss to follow-up was 2.5% in both the Envarsus 
and Prograf groups. The treatment difference (Envarsus-Prograf) was 0% (95% confidence interval [-
4.21%, 4.21%]). The treatment failure rate using the same composite end-point with centrally read 
BPAR was 1.9% in the Envarsus group and 3.7% in the Prograf group (95% confidence interval [-
6.51%, 2.31%]). Treatment emergent fatal adverse events occurred in 1.2% of Envarsus patients and 
0.6% of Prograf patients. 
Liver transplantation 
The pharmacokinetics, efficacy and safety of Envarsus and tacrolimus immediate-release capsules, 
both in combination with corticosteroids were compared in 117 liver transplant recipients, of whom 
88 received treatment with Envarsus. In the de novo liver transplant study, 29 subjects were treated 
with Envarsus. The event rate of biopsy-confirmed acute rejection within the 360-day study period 
was not significantly different between the Envarsus group and the tacrolimus immediate-release 
group. The overall incidence of fatal treatment emergent adverse events for the combined de novo and 
stable liver transplant population was not significantly different between the Envarsus group and the 
tacrolimus immediate-release group.  
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
The oral bioavailability of Envarsus was decreased when the medicinal product was administered after 
a meal; the extent of absorption was decreased by 55% and the maximum plasma concentration was 
decreased by 22% when taken directly after a high-fat meal. Therefore, Envarsus should generally be 
taken on an empty stomach to achieve maximal absorption. 
In man tacrolimus has been shown to be able to be absorbed throughout the gastrointestinal tract. 
Available tacrolimus is generally rapidly absorbed. Envarsus is a prolonged-release formulation of 
tacrolimus resulting in an extended oral absorption profile with an average time to maximum blood 
concentration (Cmax) of approximately 6 hours (tmax) at steady state.  
Absorption is variable and the mean oral bioavailability of tacrolimus is in the range of 20%-25% 
(individual range in adult patients 6%-43%). The oral bioavailability is approximately 40% higher for 
Envarsus as compared to the same dose of tacrolimus immediate-release formulation (Prograf) in 
kidney transplant patients.  
Higher Cavg (~50%), reduced peak trough fluctuation (Cmax/Cmin) and a longer Tmax were seen for 
Envarsus when compared with both, tacrolimus immediate-release formulation (Prograf) and a 
tacrolimus once daily formulation (Advagraf). Mean values for Cmax, percentage degree of fluctuation 
and percentage degree of swing were significantly lower with administration of Envarsus tablets. 
A strong correlation exists between AUC and whole blood trough levels at steady-state for Envarsus. 
Monitoring of whole blood trough levels therefore provides a good estimate of systemic exposure. 
In vitro test results indicate that there is no risk of in vivo dose dumping related to alcohol intake.  
Distribution 
In man, the disposition of tacrolimus after intravenous infusion may be described as biphasic. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the systemic circulation, tacrolimus binds strongly to erythrocytes resulting in an approximate 20:1 
distribution ratio of whole blood/plasma concentrations. In plasma, tacrolimus is highly bound 
(>98.8%) to plasma proteins, mainly to serum albumin and α-1-acid glycoprotein. 
Tacrolimus is extensively distributed in the body. The steady-state volume of distribution based on 
plasma concentrations is approximately 1 300 L (healthy subjects). Corresponding data based on 
whole blood averaged 47.6 L. 
Biotransformation 
Tacrolimus is widely metabolised in the liver, primarily by the cytochrome P450-3A4 (CYP3A4) and 
the cytochrome P450-3A5 (CYP3A5). Tacrolimus is also considerably metabolised in the intestinal 
wall. There are several metabolites identified. Only one of these has been shown in vitro to have 
immunosuppressive activity similar to that of tacrolimus. The other metabolites have only weak or no 
immunosuppressive activity. In systemic circulation only one of the inactive metabolites is present at 
low concentrations. Therefore, metabolites do not contribute to the pharmacological activity of 
tacrolimus.  
Elimination 
Tacrolimus is a low-clearance substance. In healthy subjects, the average total body clearance 
estimated from whole blood concentrations was 2.25 L/h. In adult liver, kidney, and heart transplant 
patients, values of 4.1 L/h, 6.7 L/h, and 3.9 L/h, respectively, have been observed. Factors such as low 
haematocrit and protein levels, which result in an increase in the unbound fraction of tacrolimus, or 
corticosteroid-induced increased metabolism, are considered to be responsible for the higher clearance 
rates observed following transplantation. 
The half-life of tacrolimus is long and variable. In healthy subjects, the mean half-life in whole blood 
is approximately 30 hours. 
Following intravenous and oral administration of 14C-labelled tacrolimus, most of the radioactivity 
was eliminated in the faeces. Approximately 2% of the radioactivity was eliminated in the urine. Less 
than 1% of unchanged tacrolimus was detected in the urine and faeces, indicating that tacrolimus is 
almost completely metabolised prior to elimination bile being the principal route of elimination. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
The kidneys and the pancreas were the primary organs affected in toxicity studies performed in rats 
and baboons. In rats, tacrolimus caused toxic effects to the nervous system and the eyes. Reversible 
cardiotoxic effects were observed in rabbits following intravenous administration of tacrolimus. 
Embryofoetal toxicity was observed in rats and rabbits and was limited to doses that caused significant 
toxicity in maternal animals. In rats, female reproductive function including birth was impaired at 
toxic doses and the offspring showed reduced birth weights, viability and growth. 
A negative effect of tacrolimus on male fertility in the form of reduced sperm count and motility was 
observed in rats. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Hypromellose 
Lactose monohydrate 
Macrogol 6000 
Poloxamer 188 
Magnesium stearate 
Tartaric acid (E334) 
Butylated hydroxytoluene (E321) 
Dimethicone 350 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
30 months. 
After opening the aluminium foil wrapper: 45 days.  
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original aluminium foil wrapper in order to protect from light. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
PVC/alu blisters containing 10 prolonged-release tablets. 3 blisters are packed together in an 
aluminium foil wrapper containing a desiccant. 
Pack sizes of 30, 60 and 90 prolonged-release tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
No special requirements 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo, 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
Envarsus 0.75 mg prolonged-release tablets 
EU/1/14/935/001 
EU/1/14/935/002 
EU/1/14/935/003 
Envarsus 1 mg prolonged-release tablets 
EU/1/14/935/004 
EU/1/14/935/005 
EU/1/14/935/006 
Envarsus 4 mg prolonged-release tablets 
EU/1/14/935/007 
EU/1/14/935/008 
EU/1/14/935/009 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 18 July 2014 
Date of latest renewal: 06 June 2019 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via San Leonardo 96 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
Rottendorf Pharma GmbH 
Ostenfelder Strasse 51-61 
D-59320 Ennigerloh 
Germany 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH 
Gonzagagasse 16/16 
1010 Wien 
Austria 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
Prior to launch in each Member State, the Marketing Authorisation Holder MAH shall agree the 
content and format of the educational programme with the national competent authority. The 
Marketing Authorisation Holder should ensure that, at launch, all Healthcare Professionals who are 
expected to prescribe or dispense Envarsus are provided with an Educational pack.  
The educational pack should contain the following: 
• 
• 
• 
Summary of Product Characteristics and Patient Information Leaflet  
Educational material for Healthcare Professionals 
Patient cards to be given to patients with the product 
The educational material for Healthcare Professionals should include information on the following key 
elements: 
- 
- 
The authorised indications  
The need for prescribing and dispensing with attention to pharmaceutical form 
(prolonged-release) and posology (once daily administration).  
The importance of avoiding inadvertent switching between tacrolimus containing products and 
the risk of under and overdosing if monitoring is inadequate.  
The clinical risks associated with over- and under-dosing. 
The need for specialist supervision and monitoring if there is a clinical decision to switch a 
patient to another tacrolimus containing products. 
The role of the patient card in ensuring that patients are aware of the product they are taking and 
the recommendations for safe and effective use in particular once daily dose and the importance 
of avoiding switching between other tacrolimus containing products except under the advice 
and supervision of your doctor  
- 
- 
- 
- 
The patient card should include information on the following key elements: 
- 
- 
- 
The product name 
That the dose is once daily 
The importance of avoiding switching between other tacrolimus containing products except 
under the advice and supervision of physicians. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON FOR BLISTERS  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Envarsus 0.75 mg prolonged-release tablets 
tacrolimus 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 0.75 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 prolonged-release tablets 
60 prolonged-release tablets 
90 prolonged-release tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
Once daily. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not swallow the desiccant. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Use all the prolonged-release tablets within 45 days of opening the aluminium wrapping. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original aluminium foil wrapper in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/935/001 
EU/1/14/935/002 
EU/1/14/935/003 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Envarsus 0.75 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Envarsus 0.75 mg prolonged-release tablets 
tacrolimus 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Once daily 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
ALUMINIUM FOIL WRAPPER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Envarsus 0.75 mg prolonged-release tablets 
tacrolimus 
For oral use. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
30 tablets 
6. 
OTHER 
Use all the prolonged-release tablets within 45 days of opening the aluminium wrapping. 
Store in the original aluminium foil wrapper in order to protect from light. 
Once daily. 
Chiesi  
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON FOR BLISTERS  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Envarsus 1 mg prolonged-release tablets 
tacrolimus 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 1 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 prolonged-release tablets 
60 prolonged-release tablets 
90 prolonged-release tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
Once daily. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not swallow the desiccant. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Use all the prolonged-release tablets within 45 days of opening the aluminium wrapping. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original aluminium foil wrapper in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/935/004 
EU/1/14/935/005 
EU/1/14/935/006 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Envarsus 1 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Envarsus 1 mg prolonged-release tablets 
tacrolimus 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Once daily 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
ALUMINIUM FOIL WRAPPER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Envarsus 1 mg prolonged-release tablets 
tacrolimus 
For oral use. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
30 tablets 
6. 
OTHER 
Use all the prolonged-release tablets within 45 days of opening the aluminium wrapping. 
Store in the original aluminium foil wrapper in order to protect from light. 
Once daily. 
Chiesi 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON FOR BLISTERS  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Envarsus 4 mg prolonged-release tablets 
tacrolimus 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 4 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 prolonged-release tablets 
60 prolonged-release tablets 
90 prolonged-release tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
Once daily. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not swallow the desiccant. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Use all the prolonged-release tablets within 45 days of opening the aluminium wrapping. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original aluminium foil wrapper in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/14/935/007 
EU/1/14/935/008 
EU/1/14/935/009 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Envarsus 4 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Envarsus 4 mg prolonged-release tablets 
tacrolimus 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Chiesi 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Once daily 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
ALUMINIUM FOIL WRAPPER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Envarsus 4 mg prolonged-release tablets 
tacrolimus 
For oral use. 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
30 tablets 
6. 
OTHER 
Use all the prolonged-release tablets within 45 days of opening the aluminium wrapping. 
Store in the original aluminium foil wrapper in order to protect from light. 
Once daily. 
Chiesi 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Envarsus 0.75 mg prolonged-release tablets 
Envarsus 1 mg prolonged-release tablets 
Envarsus 4 mg prolonged-release tablets 
tacrolimus 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Envarsus is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Envarsus 
3.  How to take Envarsus 
4.  Possible side effects 
5.  How to store Envarsus 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Envarsus is and what it is used for 
Envarsus contains the active substance tacrolimus. It is an immunosuppressant. Following your kidney 
or liver transplant, your body’s immune system will try to reject the new organ.  
Envarsus is used to control your body’s immune response, enabling your body to accept the 
transplanted organ. 
You may also be given Envarsus for an ongoing rejection of your transplanted liver, kidney, heart or 
other organ when any previous treatment you were taking was unable to control this immune response 
after your transplantation. 
Envarsus is used in adults. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Envarsus 
Do not take Envarsus 
- 
if you are allergic to tacrolimus or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
if you are allergic to sirolimus or to any macrolide-antibiotic (e.g., erythromycin, 
clarithromycin, josamycin). 
- 
Warnings and precautions  
Envarsus contains the active substance tacrolimus presented in a prolonged release formulation. 
Envarsus is taken once daily and is not interchangeable with other existing medicines containing 
tacrolimus (immediate release or prolonged release) on an equal dose by dose basis. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Envarsus: 
- 
- 
- 
-  
- 
if you have, or have had, liver problems. 
if you have diarrhoea for more than one day. 
if you are taking any medicines mentioned below under “Other medicines and Envarsus”. 
if you have an alteration of the electrical activity of your heart called “QT prolongation”. 
if you feel strong abdominal pain accompanied or not with other symptoms, such as chills, 
fever, nausea or vomiting  
an infection, leading to problems with your kidney or neurological symptoms 
headache, altered mental status, seizures and visual disturbances 
weakness, change in skin or eye colour, easy bruising, infection, cough, anaemia 
if you have or have had damage to the smallest blood vessels, known as thrombotic 
microangiopathy/thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura/haemolytic uraemic syndrome. Tell 
your doctor if you develop fever, bruising under the skin (which may appear as red dots), 
unexplained tiredness, confusion, yellowing of the skin or eyes, reduced urine output, vision 
loss and seizures (see section 4). When tacrolimus is taken together with sirolimus or 
everolimus, the risk of developing these symptoms may increase. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Please avoid taking any herbal remedies, e.g., St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) or any other 
herbal products as this may affect the effectiveness and the dose of Envarsus that you need to receive. 
If in doubt, please consult your doctor prior to taking any herbal products or remedies. 
Your doctor may need to adjust your dose of Envarsus or will decide to stop treatment with 
tacrolimus. 
You should keep in regular contact with your doctor. From time to time, your doctor may need to do 
blood, urine, heart, or eye tests, to set the right dose of Envarsus. 
You should limit your exposure to the sun and UV (ultraviolet) light whilst taking Envarsus. This is 
because immunosuppressants could increase the risk of skin cancer. Wear appropriate protective 
clothing and use a sunscreen with a high sun protection factor. 
Children and adolescents 
The use of Envarsus is not recommended in children and adolescents under 18 years. 
Other medicines and Envarsus 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken, or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription and herbal preparations. 
It is not recommended that Envarsus is taken with ciclosporin (another medicine used for the 
prevention of transplant organ rejection). 
If you need to attend a doctor other than your transplant specialist, tell the doctor that you are 
taking tacrolimus. Your doctor may need to consult your transplant specialist if you should use 
another medicine that could increase or decrease your tacrolimus blood level. 
Envarsus blood levels can be affected by other medicines you take, and blood levels of other 
medicines can be affected by taking Envarsus, which may require interruption, an increase or a 
decrease in Envarsus dose.  
Some patients have experienced increases in tacrolimus blood levels while taking other medicines. 
This could lead to serious side effects, such as kidney problems, nervous system problems, and heart 
rhythm disturbances (see section 4).  
An effect on the Envarsus blood levels may occur very soon after starting the use of another medicine, 
therefore frequent continued monitoring of your Envarsus blood level may be needed within the first 
few days of starting another medicine and frequently while treatment with the other medicine 
continues. Some other medicines may cause tacrolimus blood levels to decrease, which could increase 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the risk of rejecting the transplanted organ. In particular, you should tell your doctor if you are taking 
or have recently taken medicines like: 
- 
antifungal medicines and antibiotics, particularly so-called macrolide antibiotics, used to treat 
infections (e.g., ketoconazole, fluconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, 
clotrimazole, isavuconazole, miconazole, caspofungin, telithromycin, erythromycin, 
clarithromycin, josamycin, azithromycin, rifampicin, rifabutin, isoniazid and flucloxacillin) 
letermovir, used to prevent illness caused by CMV (human cytomegalovirus) 
HIV protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir, nelfinavir, saquinavir), the booster medicine cobicistat 
and combination tablets, or HIV non‐nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (efavirenz, 
etravirine, nevirapine) used to treat HIV infection 
HCV protease inhibitors (e.g., telaprevir, boceprevir, the combination 
ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir with or without dasabuvir, elbasvir/grazoprevir, and 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir), used to treat hepatitis C  
nilotinib and imatinib, idelalisib, ceritinib, crizotinib, apalutamide, enzalutamide or mitotane 
(used to treat certain cancers) 
mycophenolic acid, used to suppress the immune system to prevent transplant rejection 
medicines for stomach ulcer and acid reflux (e.g., omeprazole, lansoprazole or cimetidine) 
antiemetics, used to treat nausea and vomiting (e.g., metoclopramide) 
cisapride or the antacid magnesium-aluminium-hydroxide, used to treat heartburn 
the contraceptive pill or other hormone treatments with ethinylestradiol, hormone treatments 
with danazol 
medicines used to treat high blood pressure or heart problems (e.g., nifedipine, nicardipine, 
diltiazem and verapamil) 
anti-arrhythmic substances (e.g., amiodarone) used to control arrhythmia (uneven beating of the 
heart) 
medicines known as “statins”, used to treat elevated cholesterol and triglycerides 
carbamazepine, phenytoin or phenobarbital, used to treat epilepsy 
metamizole, used to treat pain and fever  
the corticosteroids prednisolone and methylprednisolone, belonging to the class of 
corticosteroids and used to treat inflammations or suppress the immune system (e.g., in 
transplant rejection) 
nefazodone, used to treat depression 
herbal preparations containing St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum) or extracts of 
Schisandra sphenanthera 
cannabidiol (uses amongst others include treatment of seizures) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Tell your doctor if you are receiving treatment for hepatitis C. The drug treatment for hepatitis C may 
change your liver function and may affect blood levels of tacrolimus. Tacrolimus blood levels may fall 
or may increase depending on the medicines prescribed for hepatitis C. Your doctor may need to 
closely monitor tacrolimus blood levels and make adjustments to the dose after you start treatment for 
hepatitis C. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking or need to take ibuprofen (used to treat fever, inflammation and 
pain), antibiotics (cotrimoxazole, vancomycin, or aminoglycoside antibiotics such as gentamicin), 
amphotericin B (used to treat fungal infections) or antivirals (used to treat viral infections, e.g., 
acyclovir, ganciclovir, cidofovir, foscarnet). These may worsen kidney or nervous system problems 
when taken together with Envarsus. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking sirolimus or everolimus. When tacrolimus is taken together with 
sirolimus or everolimus, the risk of developing thrombotic microangiopathy, thrombotic 
thrombocytopenic purpura, and haemolytic uraemic syndrome may increase (see section 4). 
While you take Envarsus your doctor also needs to know if you are taking potassium supplements or 
certain diuretics used for heart failure, hypertension and kidney disease (e.g., amiloride, triamterene, 
or spironolactone), or the antibiotics trimethoprim or cotrimoxazole that may increase levels of 
potassium in your blood, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory substances (NSAIDs, e.g., ibuprofen) used 
for fever, inflammation and pain, anticoagulants (blood thinners), or oral medicines for diabetes. 
44 
 
 
 
 
If you need to have any vaccinations, please tell your doctor before. 
Envarsus with food and drink 
Avoid grapefruit (also as juice) while on treatment with Envarsus, since it can affect its levels in the 
blood. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. 
Tacrolimus passes into breast milk. Therefore, you should not breast-feed whilst taking Envarsus. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not drive or use any tools or machines if you feel dizzy or sleepy, or have problems seeing clearly 
after taking Envarsus. These effects are more frequent if you also drink alcohol. 
Envarsus contains lactose 
Envarsus contains lactose (milk sugar).  
• 
• 
• 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine. 
Envarsus 0.75 mg tablets:   41.7 mg 
41.7 mg 
Envarsus 1 mg tablets:  
104 mg 
Envarsus 4 mg tablets:  
3. 
How to take Envarsus 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure.  
This medicine should only be prescribed for you by a doctor with experience in the treatment of 
transplant patients. 
Important information 
Make sure that you receive the same tacrolimus medicine every time you collect your prescription, 
unless your transplant specialist has agreed to change to a different tacrolimus medicine. 
This medicine should be taken once a day. If the appearance of this medicine is not the same as usual, 
or if doe instructions have changed, speak to your doctor or pharmacist as soon as possible to make 
sure that you have the right medicine. 
How much Envarsus do I have to take 
The starting dose to prevent the rejection of your transplanted organ will be determined by your doctor 
calculated according to your body weight.  
Initial daily doses just after transplantation will generally be in the range of: 
0.11 - 0.17 mg per kg body weight per day 
depending on the transplanted organ. When treating rejection, the same doses may be used. 
Your dose depends on your general condition and on which other immunosuppressive medicines you 
are taking. Following the initiation of your treatment with this medicine, frequent blood tests will be 
taken by your doctor to define the correct dose. Afterwards regular blood tests by your doctor will be 
required to define the correct dose and to adjust the dose from time to time. Your doctor will usually 
reduce your Envarsus dose once your condition has stabilised.  
How should I take the Envarsus tablets 
Envarsus is taken orally once daily, generally on an empty stomach.  
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Take the tablets immediately following removal from the blister. The tablets should be swallowed 
whole with a glass of water. Do not swallow the desiccant contained in the foil wrapper. 
How long should I take the Envarsus tablets 
You will need to take Envarsus every day as long as you need immunosuppression to prevent rejection 
of your transplanted organ. You should keep in regular contact with your doctor. 
If you take more Envarsus than you should 
If you have accidentally taken too much Envarsus, contact your doctor or nearest hospital emergency 
department immediately. 
If you forget to take Envarsus 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten tablet. Take the tablet as soon as possible on the 
same day.  
If you stop taking Envarsus  
Stopping your treatment with Envarsus may increase the risk of rejection of your transplanted organ. 
Do not stop your treatment unless your doctor tells you to do so. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tacrolimus reduces your body’s defence mechanism (immune system), which will not be as good at 
fighting infections. Therefore, you may be more prone to infections while you are taking Envarsus. 
Some infections could be serious or fatal and may include infections caused by bacteria, viruses, fungi, 
parasites, or other infections.  
Tell your doctor immediately if you get signs of an infection including: 
fever, cough, sore throat, feeling weak or generally unwell 
- 
memory loss, trouble thinking, difficulty walking or loss of vision - these may be due to a very 
- 
rare, serious brain infection, which can be fatal (Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy 
(PML)) 
Please contact your doctor immediately, should you experience severe effects. 
Severe effects may occur, including allergic and anaphylactic reactions. Benign and malignant 
tumours have been reported following Envarsus treatment. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you have or suspect you may have any of the following serious 
side effects: 
Serious common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
- 
Gastrointestinal perforation: strong abdominal pain accompanied or not with other symptoms, 
such as chills, fever, nausea or vomiting. 
Insufficient function of your transplanted organ. 
Blurred vision. 
- 
- 
Serious uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
- 
Thrombotic microangiopathy (damage to the smallest blood vessels) including haemolytic 
uraemic syndrome, a condition with the following symptoms: low or no urine output (acute 
renal failure), extreme tiredness, yellowing of the skin or eyes (jaudince) and abnormal bruising 
or bleeding and signs of infection.  
Serious rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people): 
- 
Thrombotic Thrombocytopenic Purpura a condition involving damage to the smallest blood 
vessels and characterised by fever and bruising under the skin that may appear as red pinpoint 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dots, with or without unexplained extreme tiredness, confusion, yellowing of the skin or eyes 
(jaundice), with symptoms of acute renal failure (low or no urine output), vision loss and 
seizures.  
Toxic epidermal necrolysis: erosion and blistering of skin or mucous membranes, red swollen 
skin that can detach in large parts of the body.  
Blindness.  
- 
- 
Serious very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 000 people): 
- 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome: unexplained widespread skin pain, facial swelling, serious illness 
with blistering of skin, mouth, eyes and genitals, hives, tongue swelling, red or purple skin rash 
that spreads, skin shedding.   
Torsades de pointes: change in the heart frequency that can be accompanied or not of 
symptoms, such as chest pain (angina), faint, vertigo or nausea, palpitations (feeling the 
heartbeat) and difficulty breathing. 
- 
- 
- 
Serious side effects – frequency not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data): 
Opportunistic infections (bacterial, fungal, viral and protozoal): prolonged diarrhoea, fever and 
- 
sore throat.  
Benign and malignant tumours have been reported following treatment as a result of 
immunosuppression.  
Cases of pure red cell aplasia (a very severe reduction in red blood cell counts), haemolytic 
anaemia (decreased number of red blood cells due to abnormal breakdown accompanied with 
tiredness) and febrile neutropenia (a decrease in the type of white blood cells which fight 
infection, accompanied by fever) have been reported. It is not known exactly how often these 
side effects occur. You may have no symptoms or depending on the severity of the condition, 
you may feel: fatigue, apathy, abnormal paleness of the skin (pallor), shortness of breath, 
dizziness, headache, chest pain and coldness in hands and feet. 
Cases of agranulocytosis (a severely lowered number of white blood cells accompanied with 
ulcers in the mouth, fever and infection(s)). You may have no symptoms or you may feel 
sudden fever, rigors and sore throat. 
Allergic and anaphylactic reactions with the following symptoms: a sudden itchy rash (hives), 
swelling of hands, feet, ankle, face, lips, mouth or throat (which may cause difficulty in 
swallowing or breathing) and you may feel you are going to faint.  
Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome (PRES): headache, confusion, mood changes, 
fits, and disturbances of your vision. These could be signs of a disorder known as posterior 
reversible encephalopathy syndrome, which has been reported in some patients treated with 
tacrolimus. 
Optic neuropathy (abnormality of the optic nerve): problems with your vision such as blurred 
vision, changes in colour vision, difficulty in seeing detail or restriction of your field of vision. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
The side effects listed below may also occur after receiving Envarsus and could be serious: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Increased blood sugar, diabetes mellitus, increased potassium in the blood 
Difficulty in sleeping 
Trembling, headache 
Increased blood pressure 
Liver function tests abnormal 
Diarrhoea, nausea 
Kidney problems 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
- 
Reduction in blood cell counts (platelets, red or white blood cells), increase in white blood cell 
counts, changes in red blood cell counts (seen in blood tests) 
Reduced magnesium, phosphate, potassium, calcium or sodium in the blood, fluid overload, 
increased uric acid or lipids in the blood, decreased appetite, loss of appetite, increased acidity 
of the blood, other changes in the blood salts (seen in blood tests) 
- 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
Anxiety symptoms, confusion and disorientation, depression, mood changes, nightmare, 
hallucination, mental disorders 
fits, disturbances in consciousness, tingling and numbness (sometimes painful) in the hands and 
feet, dizziness, impaired writing ability, nervous system disorders 
Increased sensitivity to light, eye disorders 
Ringing sound in your ears 
Reduced blood flow in the heart vessels, faster heartbeat 
Bleeding, partial or complete blocking of blood vessels, reduced blood pressure 
Shortness in breath, changes in the lung tissue, collection of liquid around the lung, 
inflammation of the pharynx, cough, flu-like symptoms 
Inflammations or ulcers causing abdominal pain or diarrhoea, bleeding in the stomach, 
inflammations or ulcers in the mouth, collection of fluid in the belly, vomiting, abdominal pain, 
indigestion, constipation, flatulence, bloating, loose stools, stomach problems 
Bile duct disorders, yellowing of the skin due to liver problems, liver tissue damage and 
inflammation of the liver 
Itching, rash, hair loss, acne, increased sweating 
Pain in joints, limbs or back, muscle cramps 
Insufficient function of the kidneys, reduced production of urine, impaired or painful urination 
General weakness, fever, collection of fluid in your body, pain and discomfort, increase of the 
enzyme alkaline phosphatase in your blood, weight gain, feeling of temperature disturbed 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Changes in blood clotting, reduction in the number of all types of blood cells (seen in blood 
tests) 
Dehydration 
Psychotic behaviour, such as delusions, hallucinations, and confusion 
 Reduced protein or sugar in the blood, increased phosphate in the blood 
Coma, bleeding in the brain, stroke, paralysis, brain disorder, speech and language 
abnormalities, memory problems 
 Opacity of the eye lens, partial or total inability to hear 
Irregular heartbeat, stop of heartbeat, reduced performance of your heart, disorder of the heart 
muscle, enlargement of the heart muscle, stronger heartbeat, abnormal ECG, heart rate and 
pulse abnormal 
Blood clot in a vein of a limb, shock 
Difficulties in breathing, respiratory tract disorders, asthma 
Acute or chronic inflammation of the pancreas, inflammation of the lining of the inner wall of 
the abdomen, obstruction of the gut, increased blood level of the enzyme amylase, reflux of 
stomach contents in your throat, delayed emptying of the stomach 
Inflammation of the skin, burning sensation in the sunlight 
Joint disorders 
Inability to urinate, painful menstruation and abnormal menstrual bleeding 
Multiple organ failure, flu-like illness, increased sensitivity to heat and cold, feeling of pressure 
on your chest, jittery or abnormal feeling, increase of the enzyme lactate dehydrogenase in your 
blood, weight loss 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1 000 people): 
Small bleedings in your skin due to blood clots 
- 
Increased muscle stiffness 
- 
Deafness 
- 
Collection of fluid around the heart 
- 
Acute breathlessness 
- 
Cyst formation in your pancreas, pre-stage of a blockage in your bowel  
- 
Problems with blood flow in the liver 
- 
Serious illness with blistering of skin, mouth, eyes and genitals;  
- 
Increased hairiness 
- 
Thirst, fall, feeling of tightness in your chest, decreased mobility, ulcer 
- 
48 
 
 
 
Very rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 000 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Muscular weakness 
Impaired hearing 
Abnormal heart scan 
Liver failure 
Painful urination with blood in the urine 
Increase of fat tissue 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Envarsus 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton, blister and wrapper after 
‘EXP’. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original aluminium foil wrapper in order to protect from light. 
Use all the prolonged-release tablets within 45 days of opening the aluminium wrapping. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Envarsus contains  
- 
The active substance is tacrolimus. 
Envarsus 0.75 mg prolonged-release tablets 
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 0.75 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
Envarsus 1 mg prolonged-release tablets 
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 1.0 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
Envarsus 4 mg prolonged-release tablets 
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 4.0 mg tacrolimus (as monohydrate). 
- 
The other excipients are hypromellose, lactose monohydrate, macrogol 6000, poloxamer 188, 
magnesium stearate, tartaric acid (E334), butylated hydroxytoluene (E321), dimethicone 350. 
What Envarsus looks like and contents of the pack 
Envarsus 0.75 mg prolonged-release tablets are oval, white to off-white uncoated tablet, debossed with 
“0.75” on one side and “TCS” on the other side. 
Envarsus 1 mg prolonged-release tablets are oval, white to off-white uncoated tablet, debossed with “1” 
on one side and “TCS” on the other side  
Envarsus 4 mg prolonged-release tablets are oval, white to off-white uncoated tablet, debossed with “4” 
on one side and “TCS” on the other side. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Envarsus is supplied in PVC/alu blisters containing 10 tablets. 3 blisters are packed together within a 
protective aluminium foil wrapper, including a desiccant. Packs of 30, 60 and 90 prolonged-release 
tablets are available. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via Palermo, 26/A 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
Manufacturer 
Rottendorf Pharma GmbH 
Ostenfelder Straβe 51 - 61 
59320 Ennigerloh 
Germany 
or 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Via San Leonardo 96 
43122 Parma 
Italy 
or 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH 
Gonzagagasse 16/16 
1010 Wien 
Austria 
For  any  information  about  this  medicine,  please  contact  the  local  representative  of  the  Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Chiesi sa/nv 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 788 42 00 
България 
Chiesi Bulgaria EOOD  
Teл.: +359 29201205 
Česká republika 
Chiesi CZ s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 261221745 
Danmark 
Chiesi Pharma AB 
Tlf: +46 8 753 35 20 
Deutschland 
Chiesi GmbH 
Tel: +49 40 89724-0 
Eesti 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 4073919 
Lietuva 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH  
Tel: +43 1 4073919 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Chiesi sa/nv 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 788 42 00 
Magyarország 
Chiesi Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36-1-429 1060 
Malta 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 0521 2791 
Nederland 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals B.V. 
Tel: +31 0 88 5016400 
Norge 
Chiesi Pharma AB 
Tlf: +46 8 753 35 20 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα 
Chiesi Hellas AEBE 
Τηλ: +30 210 6179763 
España 
Chiesi España, S.A.U. 
Tel: +34 93 494 8000 
France 
Chiesi S.A.S  
Tél: +33 1 47688899 
Hrvatska 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 4073919 
Ireland 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 0521 2791 
Ísland 
Chiesi Pharma AB 
Tlf: +46 8 753 35 20 
Italia 
Chiesi Italia S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 0521 2791 
Κύπρος 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Τηλ: +39 0521 2791 
Latvija 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH  
Tel: +43 1 4073919 
This leaflet was last revised in. 
Other sources of information 
Österreich 
Chiesi Pharmaceuticals GmbH  
Tel: +43 1 4073919 
Polska 
Chiesi Poland Sp. z.o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 620 1421 
Portugal 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 0521 2791 
România 
Chiesi Romania S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 212023642 
Slovenija 
CHIESI SLOVENIJA, d.o.o. 
Tel: +386-1-43 00 901 
Slovenská republika 
Chiesi Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 259300060 
Suomi/Finland 
Chiesi Pharma AB 
Puh/Tel: +46 8 753 35 20 
Sverige 
Chiesi Pharma AB 
Tlf: +46 8 753 35 20 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Chiesi Farmaceutici S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 0521 2791  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
