European Medicines Agency  
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
Enyglid 
International Non-proprietary Name: repaglinide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/001065 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 75 23 70 51 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE ........................................... 3 
1.1 
1.2 
Submission of the dossier ........................................................................................................ 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product.......................................................................... 4 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION ................................................................................................. 5 
2.1 
2.2 
2.3 
2.4 
2.5 
2.6 
Introduction.............................................................................................................................. 5 
Quality aspects ......................................................................................................................... 5 
Non-Clinical aspects ................................................................................................................ 8 
Clinical Aspects ....................................................................................................................... 8 
Pharmacovigilance................................................................................................................. 13 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation ...................................... 13 
Enyglid 
Page 2/14 
 
 
 
 
1. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1 
Submission of the dossier  
The applicant Krka, d.d., Novo mesto submitted on 03 September 2008 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Enyglid,  in  accordance  with  the 
centralised procedure falling within the scope of the Annex to Regulation (EC) 726/2004 under Article 
3 (3) – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. 
The application legal basis refers to Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The  application  concerns  a  generic  medicinal  product  as  defined  in  Article  10(1)  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC  and  refers  to  a  reference  product  for  which  a  Marketing  Authorisation  is  or  has  been 
granted  in  the  Community  on  the  basis  of  a  complete  dossier  in  accordance  with  Article  8(3)  of 
Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended.  
The chosen reference product is:  
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
(cid:131)  Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: NovoNorm 0.5 mg, 1 mg, 2 mg Tablets 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation holder: Novo Nordisk A/S  
(cid:131)  Date of authorisation: 17 August 1998 
(cid:131)  Marketing authorisation granted by: EU registration 
(cid:131) 
(Community) Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/98/076/004-007, 011-014, 018-024 
■ Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
force and to which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
  (cid:131) Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: NovoNorm 2 mg Tablets 
  (cid:131) Marketing authorisation holder: Novo Nordisk A/S 
(cid:131) Date of authorisation: 17 August 1998 
(cid:131) Marketing authorisation granted by: EU registration 
(cid:131) (Community) Marketing authorisation number(s): EU/1/98/076/018-022 
(cid:131) Member State of source: Germany  
(cid:131) Bioavailability study number(s): 08-205 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur : 
Pharmacovigilance Rapporteur : 
Robert James Hemmings 
Pieter de Graeff 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
Enyglid 
Page 3/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.2 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 03 September 2008.  
The procedure started on 24 September 2008. 
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on 
12 December 2008.  
During  the  meeting  on  19  –  22  January  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 22 January 2009. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on 
26 March 2009. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Day 150 Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the 
List of Questions to all CHMP members on  08 May 2009.  
During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  26-29  May  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  a  list  of  outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP list of outstanding issues on 19 June 2009. 
During the meeting on 20-23 July 2009, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a 
Marketing  Authorisation  to  Enyglid  on  23  July  2009.  The  applicant  provided  the  letter  of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 7 July 2009. 
Enyglid 
Page 4/14 
 
 
 
 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1 
Introduction 
Enyglid 0.5 mg, 1 mg and 2 mg tablets is a generic medicinal products containing repaglinide as the 
active  substance.  The  reference  product  NovoNorm  0.5  mg,  1  mg  and  2  mg  tablets  was  centrally 
authorised on 17 August 1998. 
Repaglinide is a carbamoylmethyl benzoic acid derivative. It is a short-acting oral antidiabetic of the 
meglitinide class, which lowers the blood glucose levels acutely by stimulating the release of insulin 
from the pancreas, an effect dependent upon functioning β-cells in the pancreatic islets. Repaglinide 
closes ATP-dependent potassium channels in the β-cell membrane via a target protein different from 
other secretagogues. This depolarises the β-cell and leads to an opening of the calcium channels. The 
resulting increased calcium influx induces insulin secretion from the β-cell.  
The  efficacy  and  safety  of  Enyglid  has  been  demonstrated  in  several  well-controlled  studies,  with 
sulphonylureas  as  comparators.  In  one  study  the  effect  of  adding  repaglinide  to  metformin  was 
investigated.  A  summary  of  these  studies  may  be  found  in  the  EPAR  of  the  reference  product 
NovoNorm. 
The  indication  proposed  for  Enyglid  is  the  same  as  for  the  authorised  Reference  medicinal  product 
NovoNorm. 
NovoNorm is indicated in patients with Type 2 diabetes (Non Insulin-Dependent Diabetes Mellitus 
(NIDDM)) whose hyperglycaemia can no longer be controlled satisfactorily by diet, weight reduction 
and exercise. Repaglinide is also indicated in combination with metformin in Type 2 diabetes patients 
who are not satisfactorily controlled on metformin alone. Treatment should be initiated as an adjunct 
to diet and exercise to lower the blood glucose in relation to meals. 
2.2  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Enyglid is presented as tablets containing 0.5 mg, 1 mg and 2 mg of repaglinide as active substance. 
The  other  ingredients  are  calcium  hydrogen  phosphate  anhydrous,  cellulose  microcrystalline, 
croscarmellose sodium, meglumine, poloxamer, glycerol, povidone K25 and magnesium stearate. 
1  mg  tablets  contain  iron  oxide  yellow  as  a  colorant  and  2  mg  tablets  contain  Iron  oxide  red  as 
colorant. 
The tablets are marketed in OPA/Al/PVC foil in combination with aluminium foil (OPA/Al/PVC-Al). 
The blisters are packed in cartons. 
Active substance  
The  active  substance,  repaglinide  is  a  single  S  enantiomer  of  (+)-2-ethoxy-4-(2-((3-methyl-1-(2-(1-
piperidinyl)phenyl)-butyl)amino)-2-oxoethyl) benzoic acid. 
It appears as white or almost white powder, practically insoluble in water, freely soluble in methanol 
and  in  dichloromethane.  The  structure  is  sufficiently elucidated  by  infrared  absorption  spectroscopy, 
1H-NMR spectroscopy,  13C-NMR spectroscopy, X-ray powder diffraction and mass spectroscopy and 
elemental  analysis.  Repaglinide  shows  polymorphism.  However,  it  was  confirmed  that  the  same 
polymorphic  form  is  always  obtained  when  using  the  synthetic  route,  which  was  described  by  the 
applicant.  
Enyglid 
Page 5/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Manufacture 
Repaglinide is synthesised in ten reactions steps by the manufacturing process which has been 
adequately described. Critical parameters have been identified and adequate in-process controls 
included. Specifications for starting materials, reagents, and solvents have been provided. Adequate 
control of critical steps and intermediates has been presented. The active substance is purified by 
recrystallisation. The purified active substance packed in carton drums containing primary 
transparent LDPE bag in secondary black LDPE bag.  
• 
Specification 
The  active  substance  specifications  include  tests  for  appearance  (white  almost  white  powder), 
solubility, identification (optical rotation & IR), enantiomeric purity (HPLC), impurities (HPLC), loss 
on  drying  (Ph.Eur.),  sulphated  ash  (Ph.Eur.),  assay  and  residual  solvents  (GC).  All  specifications 
reflect the relevant quality attributes of the active substance. The analytical methods, which were used 
in the routine controls, were well described and their validations are in accordance with the relevant 
ICH  guidelines.  Based  on  the  data  provided  it  was  concluded  that  Repaglinide  is  controlled  in 
accordance with the European pharmacopeia monograph. 
Impurities were described, classified as process related impurities (starting materials and by-products) 
and possible degradation products, and specified. It was noted that no metal catalysts have been used 
during  manufacturing  procedure.  Residual  solvents  were  satisfactorily  controlled  in  the  active 
substance  according  to  the  relevant  ICH  requirements.  Certificates  of  analyses  for  the  active 
substances  were  provided  and  all  batch  analysis  results  comply  with  the  specifications  and  show  a 
good uniformity from batch to batch. 
• 
Stability 
the  active 
substance  were  put  on 
Three  production  batches  of 
long-tern  condition 
(25±2°C/60±5%RH),  on  intermediate  condition  (30±2°C/65±5%RH)  and  accelerated  condition 
(40±2°C/75±5%RH). All stability studies were completed according to ICH guidelines demonstrated 
adequate  stability  of  the  active  substance.  The  following  parameters  were  monitored  during  the 
stability studies: appearance, loss on drying, specific optical rotation, assay, enantiomeric purity and 
related substances. The same analytical methods have been used in the stability program as for release. 
It was noted that the results of the photostability study, which was performed in accordance with the 
note  for  guidance  on  photostability  testing  of  new  active  substances  and  medicinal  products 
(CPMP/ICH/279/95),  are  within  specifications  and  no  significant  changes  were  observed.  Based  on 
the  stability  results  it  was  concluded  that  the  proposed  re-test  period  is  justified  when  the  active 
substance is stored in the original packing material. 
Medicinal Product  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
All  information  regarding  the  choice  of  the  active  substance  and  the  excipients  are  sufficiently 
justified.  
The main aim of the applicant not only was to develop a medicinal product bioequivalent to the 
reference product (NovoNorm) but also to develop a stable dosage form, which could be produced 
through a simple production process. All the excipients used are well known and commonly used in 
the pharmaceutical industry. 
It was noted that a range of different compositions and manufacturing techniques were studied. 
Based on the dissolution studies the wet granulation was selected.  
The selected formulation was used to manufacture batches for bioequivalence and stability. This 
formulation corresponds to that proposed for commercial manufacturing. It was confirmed a 
satisfactory bioequivalence against the reference product NovoNorm 2mg. For the lower dosage 
Enyglid 
Page 6/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
strengths (0.5 mg and 1 mg) a biowaiver has been applied successfully, since all the conditions for a 
biowaiver have been fulfilled.  
Comparative dissolution profiles for the three strengths have been provided and it was verified 
that no significant differences has been observed. It is important to underline that comparative 
impurity profiles against the reference product for all three strengths have shown no significant 
differences between these two products. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  proposed  commercial  manufacturing  process  involves  standard  technology  using  standard 
manufacturing  processes  such  as  mixing,  dissolving,  blending,  wet  granulation,  sieving  and 
compressing. 
Furthermore, the equipment used is commonly available in the pharmaceutical industry. The proposed 
in-process control limits were considered acceptable. 
It  was  noticed  that  the  manufacturing  process  has  been  adequately  validated  on  production  scale 
batches and the results of the manufacturing validation reports were considered satisfactory. 
•  Product Specification 
The  finished  product  specifications  were  established  according  the  ICH  guidelines  and  include  the 
following  tests:  appearance,  uniformity  of  dosage  units  (Ph.Eur),  identification  (HPLC  &  TLC), 
impurities (HPLC), assay, dissolution and microbial limits (Ph.Eur). 
It  was  verified  that  no  new  impurities  have  been  arising  compared  to  the  active  substance. 
Furthermore, it was noted that the degradation products, which are presented in the finished product in 
concentrations below the reporting threshold and not significantly increase during stability testing.  
All  analytical  procedures  that  were  used  for  testing  the  drug  product  were  properly  described. 
Moreover,  all  relevant  methods  were  satisfactorily  validated  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  ICH 
guidelines.  
The  batch  analysis  data  confirm  that  the  tablets  can  be  manufactured  reproducibly  according  to  the 
agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of the finished product. 
•  Stability of the Product 
The  stability  studies  were  conducted  according  to  the  relevant  ICH  guidelines.  Pilot  and  production 
scale batches of each strength have been stored at long term, intermediate and accelerated conditions. 
It  was  verified  that  the  following  parameters  were  controlled:  appearance,  water  content,  hardness, 
friability, disintegration, dissolution, assay, impurities and microbial purity. 
One batch of each strength was stored for photostability at ICH conditions and results obtained 
comply with the prescribed specifications. Based on the available stability data, the proposed shelf life 
and storage conditions as stated in the SPC are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture, control of the active substance and the finished product 
have been presented in a satisfactory manner and justified in accordance with relevant CHMP and ICH 
guidelines. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory consistency and uniformity of the 
finished product. Therefore, this medicinal product should have a satisfactory and uniform 
performance in the clinic. Dissolution studies results indicate comparability with the reference product 
(NovoNorm) and this is confirmed by in-vivo bioequivalence results (see the clinical part of the 
report). At the time of the CHMP opinion, there was one minor unresolved quality issue, which will 
not have an impact on the benefit/risk ratio of the medicinal product. Therefore, it can be concluded 
that the quality characteristics of the finished product are adequate and should have a satisfactory and 
uniform performance in the clinic. 
Enyglid 
Page 7/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3  Non-Clinical aspects   
No further studies are required and the applicant has justified why no such data was provided. 
No environmental risk assessment has been submitted and the applicant has presented a justification. 
The introduction of Enyglid is unlikely to result in any significant increase in the combined sales 
volumes for all repaglinide containing products. The risk of an environmental impact from the use of 
Enyglid is of no concern. 
2.4  Clinical Aspects  
Introduction 
The rapporteur assessment addressed pharmacokinetic data in respect of a bioequivalence study, and 
literature references submitted. 
GCP  
The submitted bioequivalence study complied with GCP as claimed by the applicant.    
The applicant has clarified that study facilities have been inspected by Regulatory Agencies, including 
EMEA inspection of the site used for bio-analysis (USA) in 2005, and EMEA inspection of the site 
used for bio-analysis and clinical work (Canada) in 2007. 
Exemption  
One bioequivalence study was performed on Enyglid (repaglinide) 2 mg tablets.  A biowaiver has 
been requested for lower dosage strengths of Enyglid tablets (0.5 mg and 1 mg).  
According to the Note for Guidance on the Investigation of Bioavailability and Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) a bioequivalence study investigating only one strength may be 
acceptable provided that the choice of the strength used is justified on analytical, pharmacokinetic and 
safety grounds and the following conditions are fulfilled: 
1.  The pharmaceutical products are manufactured by the same manufacturer and process. 
2.  The drug input has been shown to be linear over the therapeutic range. (If this is not the case, 
the strength for which the sensitivity is largest to identify differences in the two products 
should be used). 
3.  The qualitative composition of the strengths is the same. 
4.  The ratio between amounts of active substance and excipient is the same, or in the case of 
preparations containing a low concentration of the active substance (less than 50%) the ratio 
between the amounts of excipients is similar.  
5.  The dissolution profile should be similar under identical conditions for the additional strengths 
and the strength of the batch used in the bioequivalence study. 
All the above points were met. The manufacturer submitted data to support points 1, 3 and 4.  
Repaglinide tablets contain less than 5% active ingredient. The qualitative composition of the different 
strengths is the same (except for colorants in the 1 and 2 mg tablets). 
Literature references have been provided showing the dose linear behaviour up to 2mg. The results of 
in vitro dissolution tests with repaglinide were provided, covering at least three time points, attained at 
three different buffers in pH range 1-8 (pH 1, pH 4.5 and pH 6.8).  Percent of the drug dissolved was 
followed up to 30 minutes; concentrations of dissolved repaglinide were measured with HPLC. 
The results showed profiles where more than 85% of repaglinide is released in 15 minutes from all 
tablet formulations. 
In conclusion the request for biowaiver has been adequately justified and separate bioequivalence 
studies for the 0.5 mg and 1 mg strengths are not needed. 
Enyglid 
Page 8/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted one bioequivalence study AA44393 (KRKA 
study code 08-205): a comparative, randomised, single Dose, 2-way crossover bioavailability Study of 
2 mg Repaglinide tablets in Healthy Adult Volunteers under Fasting Conditions.  
The clinical part of the study as well as pharmacokinetic, statistical analyses and clinical laboratory 
tests has been conducted by Clinical Research Organisation in Canada. 
The analytical part (sample analyses for repaglinide) was carried out by Clinical Research 
Organisation in the USA. 
Pharmacokinetics  
• 
Methods 
STUDY DESIGN  
This was an open-label, randomised, single-dose, 2-way crossover, 2-sequence, comparative 
bioavailability study of KRKA, d.d. 2 mg repaglinide tablets and Novo Nordisk A/S (NovoNorm®) 2 
mg repaglinide tablets, under fasting conditions. Subjects were divided into two groups for dosing: 
Group 1 (Subject Nos. 1 - 34) and Group 2 (Subject Nos. 35 – 68). 
Subjects were randomised to receive the test and reference products according to the randomisation 
scheme. In the evening prior to each dosing, subjects were screened for cocaine, cannabinoids, 
cotinine and alcohol, and a serum pregnancy test was performed for all female subjects. Subjects 
received a dinner at approximately 20:00 hours and then observed a 10-hour overnight fast. 
On the mornings of Day 1 in each period (Group 1: 26/Feb/2008, 04/Mar/2008; Group 2: 
29/Feb/2008, 07/Mar/2008), subjects received a single oral 2 mg repaglinide dose of their assigned 
formulation, with 240 mL of water at room temperature, under fasting conditions. Food was restricted 
from at least 10 hours before dosing and for at least 4 hours thereafter. Water was not permitted from 1 
hour before until 1 hour after dosing, but was allowed at all other times. Meal and water restrictions 
did not apply to the administration of sugar-containing beverages. Blood samples (1 x 3 mL) were 
collected in blood collection tubes containing EDTA before dosing and at the following times 
thereafter: 0.167, 0.333, 0.5, 0.667, 0.833, 1, 1.25, 1.5, 1.75, 2, 2.5, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 hours. Doses 
were separated by a 7-day washout period. In each period, subjects were housed in the clinic from at 
least 10 hours before dosing until after the 12-hour post-dose events recording.  
Study design, sampling scheme, sampling period and washout are adequate to estimate PK parameters 
(Tmax 1 hour, and the plasma elimination half-life is approximately one hour). Repaglinide is given 
preprandially. Food has no effect on repaglinide PK (NovoNorm SPC). A fasting study is acceptable. 
The clinical phase occurred after Institutional review approval had been granted. The protocol and 
randomisation scheme have been provided. The analysis of the parent repaglinide compound is 
appropriate; no metabolites with clinically relevant hypoglycaemic effect have been identified. 
TEST AND REFERENCE PRODUCTS   
Enyglid 2 mg by KRKA, d.d. (batch No. 1227 03 P028 0108, retest date: 06.2008) has been compared 
to NovoNorm® 2 mg tablets (Batch No: SM70056, exp. date 10/2010). 
Enyglid 
Page 9/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Test and reference products   
Test Product: A. Repaglinide 2 mg tablets 
Manufacturer: KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto Slovenia 
Lot No.: 1227 03 P028 0108 
Manufactured date: 01.2008 
Retest date: 06.2008 
Reference Product: B. NovoNorm® 2 mg tablets (repaglinide) 
Manufacturer: Novo Nordisk A/S Denmark 
Ch.-B.: SM70056 
Expiration date: 10/2010 
The batch size of the test product is in line with requirements of the CHMP Note for Guidance on 
Bioequivalence. 
POPULATION(S) STUDIED   
Subjects were healthy adult male or female volunteers, 18-55 years of age, and continuous non-
smokers for at least 3 months prior to the first dose.  No subject was to take medication (including 
over-the-counter products) or herbal products for the 7 days prior to the first dose. A sample size of 64 
subjects was calculated. Four additional subjects were added to account for possible dropouts; thus 
leading to a total sample size of 68 subjects. A total of 68 healthy non-smoking adult subjects (39 
males and 29 females) satisfying inclusion and exclusion criteria were enrolled in the study and 64 
subjects (36 males and 28 females) completed the clinical phase of the study, with a mean age of 37 
years (range: 24 – 55 years), mean height of 171 cm (range: 150 – 189 cm) and mean weight of 71.3 
kg (range: 52.2 – 97.1 kg). 
There were 4 subjects who were withdrawn / discontinued from the study due to the following 
reasons: positive urine cocaine, positive urine cotinine, personal reasons. 
The population studied is appropriate. 
ANALYTICAL METHODS   
Blood samples were collected, cooled in an ice bath and centrifuged under refrigeration as soon as 
possible. Plasma samples were divided into 2 aliquots and stored in suitably labelled tubes at -
20±10°C, pending assay. The samples were shipped in two separate shipments to Analytical 
Laboratories (USA) for analysis. Repaglinide in plasma was analysed using a validated LC/MS/MS 
method. The analytical range for repaglinide in plasma was 0.300 – 75.0 ng/mL. 
Sample analysis was conducted between 14-Mar-2008 and 03-Apr-2008. 
After initial analysis, upon which no value was obtained, study samples that were identified for re-
assay due to analytical reasons were re-assayed only if sufficient sample volume remained. Twelve 
(12) samples were re-assayed. The analytical laboratory analysts did not have access to the 
randomisation scheme. 
The method has been adequately validated (See Quality part). 
PHARMACOKINETIC VARIABLES  
The following PK variable were calculated according to non compartmental methods 
AUC 0-t: The area under the plasma concentration versus time curve, from time 0 to the last 
measurable concentration, as calculated by the linear trapezoidal method. 
Enyglid 
Page 10/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AUCinf: The area under the plasma concentration versus time curve from time 0 to infinity. AUCinf 
was calculated as the sum of AUC 0-t plus the ratio of the last measurable plasma concentration to the 
elimination rate constant. 
AUC/AUCinf: The ratio of AUC 0-t to AUCinf. 
Cmax: Maximum measured plasma concentration over the time span specified. 
tmax: Time of the maximum measured plasma concentration. If the maximum value occurred at more 
than one time point, tmax was defined as the first time point with this value. 
kel: Apparent first-order terminal elimination rate constant calculated from a semi-log plot of the 
plasma concentration versus time curve. This parameter was calculated by linear least-squares 
regression analysis using the maximum number of points in the terminal loglinear phase (e.g. three or 
more non-zero plasma concentrations). 
t½: Apparent first-order terminal elimination half-life was calculated as 0.693/kel. 
The choice of PK variables is acceptable. AUC 0-t, AUCinf and Cmax were pre-specified as primary 
PK variable for the determination of bioequivalence. 
STATISTICAL METHODS   
ANOVA were performed on the ln-transformed PK parameters AUC 0-t, AUCinf, and Cmax. The 
ANOVA model included group, sequence, period nested within group, formulation, and 
formulation*group interaction as fixed effects, and subject nested within group*sequence as a random 
effect. Each ANOVA included calculations of LSM, the difference between formulation LSM, and the 
standard error associated with this difference. The above statistical analyses were performed using the 
SAS® GLM procedure. 
90% confidence intervals for the ratios  were derived by exponentiation of the confidence intervals 
obtained for the difference between formulation LSM resulting from the analyses on the ln-
transformed AUC 0-t, AUCinf and Cmax. Non-parametric analysis of tmax was performed for 
repaglinide BLQ values were set to zero for PK and statistical analyses, unless they were flanked by 
measurable concentrations. Acceptance criteria were pre-specified as: The 90% confidence interval of 
the ratios of least square means of AUC0-t, AUCinf and Cmax of the test to reference formulation 
lying within 0.80-1.25 
The statistical handling is appropriate; the pre-specified acceptance limits are acceptable. 
• 
Results 
Pharmacokinetics: 
Protocol or SOP deviations were described in the dossier; none were major or would significantly 
impact on study results. They related to final 9 hour blood draw, urine samples, sugar beverages, small 
amount of alcohol in one subject at -46 hours pre dose. Where actual sampling times exceeded the 
deviation windows outlined, the times were adjusted accordingly. 
The PK parameters AUCinf, AUC 0-t/AUCinf, t½ and kel could not be calculated for some subjects 
(Reference 9 subjects, test 8 subjects) because the terminal elimination phase in their repaglinide 
plasma concentration versus time profiles could not be characterized.  
There were no instances of non-zero pre-dose concentrations reported in this study. Tmax was not 
recorded in the first sample in either test or reference. Where evaluable, the size of the extrapolated 
areas was less than 20% in all cases. 
There were no period or sequence effects. 
Cmax was measured outside of the validated range for test and reference; Test -2 subjects (nos. 34 and 
43 with Cmax= 119 and 87ng/ml) and 1 subject for reference 43; Cmax=106ng/ml). However the 
dilution of the samples was validated up to 400ng/ml. 
Enyglid 
Page 11/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The pharmacokinetic results are presented in table 1 below. 
Table 1. Pharmacokinetic parameters (non-transformed values; arithmetic mean ± SD, tmax   median, 
range) 
tmax 
h 
0.667 
(0.333-1.500) 
0.667 
 (0.333-1.769 
T1/2 
h 
1.7811 
(0.71670) 
1.7227 
(0.54085) 
Treatment 
Test 
AUC0-t 
ng/ml/h 
43.63(24.727) 
AUC0-∞ 
ng/ml/h 
45.89(26.328) 
Reference 
41.86 (23.322) 
43.62(24.951) 
*Ratio (90% 
CI) 
1.04(0.99-1.09) 1.05(0.99-1.11)
Cmax 
ng/ml 
33.325 
(19.43461) 
30.7158 
(16.564) 
1.09 
(0.97-1.22) 
CV (%) 
17.4% 
18.1% 
39.7% 
AUC0-∞   area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
AUC0-t  
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours  
Cmax  
maximum plasma concentration  
Tmax  
time for maximum concentration  
half-life  
T1/2  
*ln-transformed values  
Review of individual plasma concentration time curves did not raise concerns. The lower number of 
subjects evaluable for AUCinf is not considered an issue as results for AUC 0-t are consistent, and 
both test and reference were balanced in this regard.  
The 90% confidence intervals of the ratios of LSM (least square means) derived from the analyses on 
the ln-transformed PK parameters AUC 0-t, AUCinf and Cmax for repaglinide in plasma were within 
the 0.80-1.25 acceptance range.  
Safety 
Overall, 27 subjects (40.9% of the study population receiving Treatment A) experienced at least 1 
adverse event that was possibly, probably, or definitely related to Treatment A, and 24 subjects 
(36.4% of the study population receiving Treatment B) experienced at least 1 adverse event that was 
possibly, probably, or definitely related to Treatment B. 
Review of the study report did not highlight safety concerns with the test product. 
(cid:131)  Conclusions 
Based on the presented bioequivalence study Enyglid 2mg tablet is considered bioequivalent with 
NovoNorm® 2 mg tablets.  
The results of study AA44393 // Krka study code: 08-205 with KRKA, d.d  repaglinide 2mg 
formulation  can be extrapolated to other strengths 0.5mg and 1mg, according to conditions in Note 
for Guidance on the Investigation of Bioavailability and Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98, 
section 5.4. 
Enyglid 
Page 12/14 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics 
No studies were submitted. 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. This medicinal product has not been marketed in any country.  
2.5  Pharmacovigilance  
(cid:131) 
Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant 
(DescPhSys000001/17  -  29  January  2009)  fulfils  the  legislative  requirements.  The  company  must 
ensure  that  this  system  is  in  place  and  functioning  before  the  product  is  placed  on  the  market.  The 
company  should  ensure  that  the  pharmacovigilance  activities  are  in  line  with  the  current  safety 
measures applied to the reference medicinal product. 
(cid:131) 
Risk Management Plan 
A Risk Management Plan was not submitted. Since the application concerns a generic of a reference 
medicinal product for which no safety concerns requiring additional risk minimisation activities have 
been identified, a Risk Management Plan was not required. 
(cid:131) 
PSUR 
The PSUR submission schedule for Enyglid tablets should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference 
medicinal product (NovoNorm). 
• 
User consultation 
The  results  of  user  consultation  provided  indicate  that  the  Package  leaflet  is  well  structured  and 
organised, easy to understand and written in a comprehensible manner. The test shows that the leaflet 
is readable and patients /users are able to act upon the information that it contains. 
2.6  Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way.  At  the 
time  of the CHMP opinion, there were one minor unresolved quality issues, which do not have any 
impact on the benefit/risk ratio of the medicinal product. This will be addressed as part of the follow-
up measures to be addressed post-authorisation. 
The  application  contains  adequate  non  clinical  and  clinical  data  and  the  bioequivalence  has  been 
shown. A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the originator can therefore be concluded.  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Enyglid 
Page 13/14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of available data, the CHMP considered majority that the benefit/risk 
ratio of Enyglid in the treatment of: -“Patients with type 2 diabetes (Non Insulin-Dependent Diabetes 
Mellitus (NIDDM) whose hyperglycaemia can no longer be controlled satisfactorily by diet, weight 
reduction and exercise. Repaglinide is also indicated in combination with metformin in type 2 diabetes 
patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on metformin alone. Treatment should be initiated as an 
adjunct to diet and exercise to lower the blood glucose in relation to meals”was favourable and 
therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
Enyglid 
Page 14/14 
 
 
 
 
