EMA/439864/2014  
EMEA/H/C/00165 
EPAR summary for the public 
Enyglid 
repaglinide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Enyglid. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Enyglid. 
What is Enyglid? 
Enyglid is a diabetes medicine that contains the active substance repaglinide. It is available as tablets 
(0.5, 1 and 2 mg). 
Enyglid is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Enyglid is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already 
authorised in the European Union (EU) called NovoNorm. For more information on generic medicines, 
see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Enyglid used for? 
Enyglid is used in adults who have type 2 diabetes. It is used together with diet and exercise to lower 
blood glucose (sugar) levels in patients whose hyperglycaemia (high blood glucose levels) is not 
adequately controlled by diet, weight reduction and exercise. Enyglid may also be used with metformin 
(another diabetes medicine) in type 2 diabetes patients whose blood glucose levels are not 
satisfactorily controlled on metformin alone. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Enyglid used? 
Enyglid is taken before meals, normally up to 15 minutes before each main meal. The dose is adjusted 
to give the best control. A doctor should regularly test the patient’s blood glucose to find the lowest 
effective dose. Enyglid can also be used for type 2 diabetes patients whose blood glucose levels are 
usually controlled well on diet, but are experiencing temporary loss of blood glucose control. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The recommended starting dose is 0.5 mg. This dose may need to be increased after one or two 
weeks. 
If patients are transferred from another diabetes medicine, the recommended starting dose is 1 mg. 
How does Enyglid work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. Enyglid helps the pancreas to 
produce more insulin at mealtimes and is used to control type 2 diabetes. 
How has Enyglid been studied? 
Because Enyglid is a generic medicine, studies in people have been limited to tests to determine that it 
is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, NovoNorm. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they 
produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefits and risks of Enyglid? 
Because Enyglid is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its benefit and 
risk are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Enyglid been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Enyglid has been shown to have 
comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to NovoNorm. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for 
NovoNorm, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Enyglid be 
given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Enyglid 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Enyglid on 14 October 2009.  
The full EPAR for Enyglid can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Enyglid, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2014.  
 
 
