EMA/686179/2021  
EMEA/H/C/004210 
Epclusa (sofosbuvir / velpatasvir) 
An overview of Epclusa and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Epclusa and what is it used for? 
Epclusa is an antiviral medicine used to treat patients from 3 years of age with chronic (long-term) 
hepatitis C, an infectious disease that affects the liver, caused by the hepatitis C virus. Hepatitis C 
virus occurs in several varieties (genotypes), and Epclusa can be used to treat hepatitis C caused by all 
genotypes of the virus. 
Epclusa contains the active substances sofosbuvir and velpatasvir. 
How is Epclusa used? 
Epclusa can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and monitored by a 
doctor experienced in the management of patients with chronic hepatitis C. 
Epclusa is available as tablets and as granules in a sachet for small children or those who have 
difficulties swallowing tablets. The recommended dose in adults is one tablet (containing 400 mg 
sofosbuvir and 100 mg velpatasivir) taken once a day for 12 weeks. In children, the dose of tablets or 
granules depends on body weight.  
Epclusa is taken with another medicine called ribavirin in adults with decompensated liver disease 
(when the liver is not working properly). The addition of ribavirin to Epclusa may also be considered for 
adults who have compensated liver cirrhosis (scarring of the liver but the liver is still able to work 
adequately) and are infected with genotype 3 hepatitis C virus, a variety which is more difficult to 
treat.  
For more information about using Epclusa, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Epclusa work? 
The active substances in Epclusa, sofosbuvir and velpatasvir, block two proteins essential for the 
hepatitis C virus to multiply. Sofosbuvir blocks the action of an enzyme called ‘NS5B’, while velpatasvir 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
targets a protein called ‘NS5A’. By blocking these proteins, Epclusa stops the hepatitis C virus from 
multiplying and infecting new cells.  
Sofosbuvir has been authorised as Sovaldi since January 2014. 
What benefits of Epclusa have been shown in studies? 
In adults, Epclusa has been investigated in three main studies involving a total of 1,446 patients 
infected with hepatitis C (genotypes 1 to 6) with adequately working liver, some of whom had 
compensated liver disease (when the liver is damaged but works normally). In all three studies, the 
main measure of effectiveness was the number of patients whose blood tests did not show any sign of 
hepatitis C virus 12 weeks after the end of treatment. Looking at the results of the studies together, 
98% of patients (1,015 out of 1,035) taking Epclusa for 12 weeks tested negative for the virus 12 
weeks after the end of treatment. 
An additional study was carried out in 267 hepatitis C patients whose liver was not working properly 
(Child-Pugh class B cirrhosis). Results showed that patients treated for 12 weeks with Epclusa in 
combination with ribavirin obtained the best results, with around 94% of patients (82 out of 87) 
testing negative for the virus 12 weeks after the end of treatment. This compared with 84% of patients 
who were treated with Epclusa alone. 
A study in 173 children from 6 years of age showed that around 94% of patients tested negative for 
the virus 12 weeks after the end of treatment. Study results in another 41 children aged 3 to 5 years 
showed that around 83% of patients tested negative for the virus 12 weeks after the end of treatment.  
What are the risks associated with Epclusa? 
Epclusa must not be used together with the following medicines, as they may reduce the levels of 
sofosbuvir and velpatasvir in the blood and thereby reduce the effectiveness of Epclusa: 
• 
• 
rifampicin, rifabutin (antibiotics); 
carbamazepine, phenobarbital, phenytoin (medicines for epilepsy); 
•  St John’s wort (a herbal preparation used for depression and anxiety).  
For the full list of side effects or restrictions with Epclusa, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Epclusa authorised in the EU? 
Epclusa on its own has been shown to be highly effective in clearing the hepatitis C virus from the 
blood of patients whose liver is able to work adequately. Clearance of the virus was seen for all 
genotypes, including genotype 3. Clearance was also very high in patients whose liver is not working 
properly (Child-Pugh class B cirrhosis) when treated with Epclusa in combination with ribavirin. Epclusa 
was well tolerated with a favourable safety profile. 
The European Medicines therefore decided that Epclusa’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Epclusa? 
The company that markets Epclusa will conduct a study to evaluate the recurrence of liver cancer in 
patients treated with the medicine. 
Epclusa (sofosbuvir / velpatasvir)  
EMA/686179/2021  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Epclusa have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Epclusa are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Epclusa are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Epclusa 
Epclusa received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 6 July 2016. 
Further information on Epclusa can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/epclusa  
This overview was last updated in 12-2021.  
Epclusa (sofosbuvir / velpatasvir)  
EMA/686179/2021  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
