SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR EPCLUSA 
(SOFOSBUVIR/VELPATASVIR)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Epclusa. The RMP details important 
risks of Epclusa, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information will be obtained 
about Epclusa’s risks and uncertainties (missing information).
Epclusa’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Epclusa should be used.
This summary of the RMP for Epclusa should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Epclusa’s 
RMP.
I.
The Medicine and What is it Used for
Epclusa is authorized for treatment of chronic hepatitis C (CHC) in patients aged 3 years and 
older (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains sofosbuvir (SOF) and velpatasvir (VEL) as 
active substances and it is given orally.
Further information about the evaluation of Epclusa’s benefits can be found in Epclusa’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage: https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/epclusa.
II.
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimize or Further 
Characterize the Risks
Important risks of Epclusa, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Epclusa’s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;

Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
 The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly;
 The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimizes its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analyzed including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.
If important information that may affect the safe use of Epclusa is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A.
List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Epclusa are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Epclusa. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers 
to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be 
collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).
Table Part VI.1.
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important Identified Risks
Severe bradycardia and heart block when used with concomitant amiodarone
HBV reactivation in HBV/HCV coinfected patients
Important Potential Risks 
None
Missing Information
Safety in pregnant women
II.B.
Summary of Important Risks
Table Part VI.2.
Summary of Important Risk(s) and Missing Information
Important Identified Risk
Severe bradycardia and heart block when used with concomitant amiodarone
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
Cases of severe bradycardia have been observed when SOF-containing regimens 
are used in combination with amiodarone.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk Minimization 
Measure(s)
Patients also taking beta blockers, or those with underlying cardiac comorbidities 
and/or advanced liver disease may be at increased risk for symptomatic 
bradycardia with coadministration of amiodarone.
Routine risk minimization measures:
SmPC Section 4.4, 4.5, and 4.8
PL Section 2.
Additional risk minimization measures:
None
Important Identified Risk HBV reactivation in HBV/HCV coinfected patients
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk Minimization 
Measure(s)
Cases of HBV reactivation have been reported in patients coinfected with 
HBV/HCV during or after treatment with DAAs. HBV reactivation can 
potentially be life-threatening, as it could result in hepatitis, an increase in 
transaminase levels, an increase in bilirubin levels, hepatic failure and death. Rare 
severe cases (involving hepatic failure or death) of HBV reactivation in patients 
receiving SOF-containing products have been reported.
Due to the small number of cases of HBV reactivation with DAAs, risk factors 
have not been definitively established. However, some of the cases involving 
HBV reactivation with SOF-containing regimens involved patients who were 
immunocompromised (patients coinfected with HIV or patients receiving 
immunosuppressants due to prior transplant). In addition, a case involving severe 
HBV reactivation had risk factors of NASH and Burkitt’s lymphoma.
Routine risk minimization measures:
SmPC Section 4.4
PL Section 2
Additional risk minimization measures:
None
Important Potential Risk
None
Missing information
Safety in pregnant women
Risk Minimization 
Measure(s)
Routine risk minimization measures:
SmPC Section 4.6
PL Section 2.
Additional risk minimization measures:
None
II.C.
Post-authorization Development Plan
II.C.1.
Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or a specific obligation 
of Epclusa. 
II.C.2.
Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan
There are no studies required for Epclusa. 
