30 January 2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): sofosbuvir / velpatasvir 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010524/201906 
Period covered by the PSUR: 28 Dec 2018 to 27 Jun 2019 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for sofosbuvir / velpatasvir, the 
scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
The MAH performed an updated cumulative review of bradyarrhythmia occurring when sofosbuvir-
containing products are co-administered with amiodarone, cumulative to 27 June 2019. The review 
identified 40 valid cases, of which 31 occurred after 5 March 2015, when warnings regarding 
bradyarrhythmia were implemented. Of these, 5 cases involved discontinuation of amiodarone prior to 
initiation of the sofosbuvir-containing regimen. While this suggests that some physicians are aware of the 
risk of bradyarrhythmia and discontinue amiodarone prior to initiation of the sofosbuvir-containing 
products, not all physicians appear to take into account the long half-life of amiodarone, despite the 
existing labelling. 
Of note, two cases reported discontinuation of amiodarone on the day of starting the sofosbuvir-
containing regimen, which would result in significant levels of amiodarone still being present in the 
patient’s plasma while on sofosbuvir. In the instances where amiodarone is coadministered, the reasons 
for coadministration were not reported in the majority of cases. However, when reported, prescribing 
error, patient error, medical need or the hepatologist not being aware of concomitant amiodarone 
treatment were cited as reasons for the concomitant use. In this context, it was considered that warnings 
regarding bradyarrhythmia and the recommendation of cardiac monitoring should be strengthened. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for sofosbuvir / velpatasvir the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing sofosbuvir / velpatasvir is unchanged subject 
to the proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/157723/2020 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
